11-12-2021||Noida||Man fakes his murder to avoid going back to prison||The Ghaziabad police on Saturday arrested a 48-year-old man for allegedly murdering a mason and passing off the body as his own to hide his identity as he wanted to avoid going back to jail for the murder of his 13-year-old daughter whom he reportedly killed in May 2018. The man was identified as Sudesh Kumar, a grocey shop owner and a resident of Karawal Nagar in Delhi. Police said his wife Anupama Kumar (38), who facilitated him in executing the murder, was also arrested. The body was later identified to be that of 42-year-old Doman Ravidas, a native of Bihar. On November 20, Ghaziabad police launched an investigation after they received information that a dead body of a man was lying at a vacant plot in Indirapuri locality in Loni. A police team reached the spot and on frisking the body, they found an Aadhaar Card, which belonged to Kumar. Police said the face was reportedly burnt to hide identity.When police contacted his family members for identification of the body, Kumar’s wife Anupama reached the spot and identified the body as that of her husband in haste. Iraj Raja, superintendent of police (rural), said, “The police got suspicious on two accounts. First, Anupama identified the body immediately as that of her husband even though the face was defaced. Secondly, it looked like the man’s face was burnt to hide his identity and the Aadhaar card was left with the body on purpose. These two factors led the police to suspect that there was some foul play.” Police said while unearthing Kumar’s past history, they found he had obtained bail in May from Delhi in connection with the murder of his daughter, who had allegedly eloped with a man. Besides, they also came across CCTV footage near Kumar’s house where he could be seen carrying a gunny bag on his bicycle on the night of the murder. Based on electronic surveillance and local information, police established that Kumar was alive and arrested him when he came to meet his wife on late Friday night. Following his arrest, Kumar told police he wanted to avoid going back to jail and planned the murder when he found that the deceased mason had body features similar to his. He wanted to project that he was murdered by some unidentified assailants. “Kumar called the mason to repair the roof of his house. On November 18, he gave the mason his clothes and asked him to wear it next day before coming to work. On the night of November 19, he offered liquor to the mason, which the latter consumed, and murdered him while hitting his head with a heavy log of wood. Thereafter, he packed the body in a gunny bag and carried it to Loni on a bicycle. As per plan, later, his wife identified the body as that of her husband,” said Raja. Police said Kumar allegedly burnt the face of the mason and went into hiding after dumping the body in Loni. Police registered a case against the couple under sections 302 (murder), 204 (destruction of evidence), 120B (criminal conspiracy) and 416 (cheating by personation) of the IPC at Loni Border police station in Ghaziabad.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/man-fakes-his-murder-to-avoid-going-back-to-prison-101639247322821.html
11-12-2021||Noida||Gautam Budh Nagar to get its first govt nursing college in Greater Noida||The Government Institute of Medical Sciences (GIMS) in Greater Noida will soon start the first government nursing college in Gautam Budh Nagar as the Uttar Pradesh Nurses and Midwives Council has granted permission to start the BSc nursing course at the institute and admissions for the same will begin next month, said officials. The nursing college has been named College Of Nursing, GIMS, and would be affiliated to Atal Bihari Vajpayee Medical University, Lucknow, which will be conducting the entrance exams for admissions to the 60 seats in the nursing college. “We had applied to the council to get permission for running the nursing course earlier this year. Four faculty members have also been appointed, for which interviews were conducted last month. The establishment of this institute will benefit the medical fraternity and also provide more employment to nursing aspirants in the state as well as Delhi-NCR,” said Dr (Brig) Rakesh Gupta, director of GIMS.Gupta also informed that GIMS has gotten the approval to start admissions for the third batch of MBBS students, for which 100 students will be admitted in the next academic session. “We have also applied to the directorate of medical education for permission to start postgraduate MD/MS courses at the institute,” he said.The institute will also start a paramedical college with 40 seats soon, added Gupta. “We are under the process of getting approval to start courses under paramedical college as well, wherein 20 seats each will be for radiology and pathology courses. This is being done with an aim of providing more experienced staff in the field of paramedics,” he said.GIMS started operations in February 2016 and is affiliated to King George’s Medical University in Lucknow. Since 2019, MBBS course with 100 seats is being offered here along with other post graduate (diplomate of national board) courses.
11-12-2021||Mumbai||Police imposes Section 144 for the weekend||Mumbai The police on Friday imposed Section 144 of Code of Criminal Procedure (CrPC) within Mumbai Commissionerate limits prohibiting rallies and protest marches involving people and vehicles over the next two days, an official said. The order, issued by the Deputy Commissioner of Police (Operations), will be in force for 48 hours on Saturday and Sunday, he said. “It has been issued to prevent danger to human life from the new Omicron variant of COVID-19 as well as a threat to the law and order situation against the backdrop of violence that took place in Amravati, Malegaon and Nanded,” he said. Violators will be punished under Section 188 of the Indian Penal Code and other legal provisions, the ordered stated. Three men, aged 48, 25 and 37 had returned from Tanzania, the UK and South Africa, respectively, while four other patients are the contacts of Nigerian women, who had been infected with the new variant. Of these new cases, four are fully vaccinated, one has been administered with a single dose against COVID-19 and one is unvaccinated. The toddler is not eligible for vaccination.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/police-imposes-section-144-for-the-weekend-101639247202939.html
11-12-2021||Pune||Garbage and pig menace spot in Pune turns into welcome sight||Pune: Corporator has taken steps to transform an area near Nancy Lake Homes housing society in Katraj that had turned into an ugly spot as pigs feed on garbage dump. Residents in the neighbourhood had to bear foul smell and the filthy sight while passing through the locality. Pune Municipal Corporation has been unable to check pig menace with increasing population of the scavenger in core areas of the city like Katraj, Baner, Wanowrie, Kothrud and Mundhwa. As per a corporator, the civic administration has not taken adequate measures to address the issue. Akash Mirdhe, a resident of Nancy Lake said, “The pig menace is across the city. Most of the vacant plots are turned into garbage dumping grounds with neither residents nor PMC solid waste department taking notice of it.” “The department is taking steps to clear residential areas of pigs. Solid waste management department is also removing waste from dumping spots on a regular basis,” said PMC health department junior officer on request of anonymity. Ajeet Deshmukh, deputy commissioner, who has been given charge of solid waste management department in PMC did not respond to calls. Pune ranks as fifth cleanest city in the Swachh Survekshan 2021, but ground reality belies the survey, residents claim. Corporator Vasant More who is also president of Maharashtra Navnirman Sena Pune unit tweeted, “A nice selfie point has been set up along the main road at Nancy Lake Homes, where only pigs used to live two months ago. This is innovation...”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/garbage-and-pig-menace-spot-in-pune-turns-into-welcome-sight-101639247147469.html
11-12-2021||Noida||Delhi man arrested for abduction, rape of 12-year-old girl in Noida||A 22-year-old man was arrested on Friday for the allegedly abducting and raping a 12-year-old girl in Noida’s Chhalera village. Police identified the suspect as Mohammad Nizamuddin, a resident of Delhi’s Trilokpuri. Rajeev Kumar, station house officer of Sector 39 police station, said on October 10, a resident of Chhalera village filed a complaint against Nizamuddin. “The complainant said Nizamuddin is the brother of his second wife and the victim is his daughter from his first wife. Nizamuddin had visited Noida and lured the girl, following which she fled with the suspect two months ago,” said Kumar. The complainant said he launched a search but failed to trace them. A case was registered against the suspect under sections 376 (rape) and 363 (kidnapping) of the IPC and also sections 3 and 4 of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act, 2012. The SHO said a police team on Friday conducted a search at Nizamuddin’s rented accommodation in Trikokpuri and arrested him. “The girl was also found there and sent for a medical examination. The suspect was produced in court and sent to judicial custody,” said Kumar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/delhi-man-arrested-for-abduction-rape-of-12-year-old-girl-in-noida-101639246723063.html
11-12-2021||Noida||2 killed, two hurt after their motorcycles collide with truck in Greater Noida||Two people died while two others were injured when a truck hit two motorcycles in Kot Village in Dadri in Greater Noida on Friday evening. The truck driver fled the spot after the accident, said police. The deceased were identified as Faheem Uddin (22), and Azeem (26). Among those injured are Rahis Uddin (30), and Kaale (25). All the men--residents of Gulaothi in Bulandshahr, used to work at a construction site in Greater Noida and were returning home on Friday when the accident took place. Pradeep Tripathi, station house officer of Dadri police station, said around 7pm, the four men were going from Badalpur to Bulandshahr on two motorcycles. “A truck, after refuelling itself at a petrol pump station, was coming down to the road and the four men on two bikes were also going in the same direction. The motorcycles collided with the truck and all the four men were injured,” he said. The SHO said a passerby informed the police about the accident. “A police team soon reached the spot. All the four victims were rushed to a private hospital, where two of them died. Two others are undergoing treatment at the hospital,” he said. Tripathi said a case has been registered against the truck driver under sections 279 (rash driving) and 304-A (causing death by negligence) of the IPC. “We are scanning the CCTV footages of the area to identify and arrest the truck driver,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/2-killed-two-hurt-after-their-motorcycles-collide-with-truck-in-greater-noida-101639246422865.html
11-12-2021||Mumbai||At 81, Sharad Pawar takes on the task of uniting opposition against BJP||As he turns 81 on Sunday, Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) chief Sharad Pawar is busy preparing to unite opposition parties to take on the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) in the next general elections. His close aides say the Maratha strongman is willing to take an initiative in bringing opposition parties together and even play the role of a mediator between the Congress and Trinamool Congress, provided he is given a prominent role by the opposition parties for these efforts. In its national executive held at New Delhi on December 7, the NCP called for the creation of an anti-BJP opposition front in the country based on the principle of “collective leadership.” In her visit to Mumbai, while Pawar stood next to her, West Bengal chief minister and Trinamool Congress president Mamata Banerjee, said there was no United Progressive Alliance (UPA) left in the country and pitched for unifying opposition parties to take on the BJP. Pawar, however, maintained that the intention was not to keep the Congress away but to unify everyone in an “anti-BJP front”.While he remains a tricky partner for the Congress, Pawar is also in touch with key opposition parties like Trinamool Congress and Samajwadi Party. His close aides in the party as well as ally Shiv Sena would like him to head the opposition front though Congress, which is traditionally the fulcrum of such efforts, is not willing to accept this. Back in Maharashtra, Pawar’s NCP is also looking at taking over Congress’ support base even though the two parties are part of the ruling MVA coalition. “Politically, the Congress is not what it was a decade ago, and it must come to terms with this. For instance, in Maharashtra, which had a Congress chief minister till 2014, it does not even have its deputy chief minister in the Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government,” explained a senior NCP minister who has worked closely with Pawar. He however added that they do want the Congress to be part of the anti-BJP alliance. In the past, Pawar has likened the Congress to the impoverished landlords in Uttar Pradesh, who lost their landholdings to ceiling laws, yet reminisce about past glories. Expectedly, many in Congress look at Pawar with suspicion. A Congress Rajya Sabha MP said that, like always, Pawar seemed to be keeping his options open for any future realignments. Much would depend on the outcome of the 2022 state assembly elections, and the verdict of the 2024 polls. The MP pointed at how Pawar never burns bridges. In 1999, he formed the NCP after being expelled from the Congress, but allied with the Congress to form the government in Maharashtra months later.However, he was unlikely to do anything that could rock the MVA’s boat in Maharashtra, considering that Banerjee has no presence here. “Banerjee is a fighter, but is a maverick. Pawar has never gone with maverick politicians considering his long-term stakes,” he explained. A former Congress MP said the NCP’s manoeuvres may be aimed at weaning away sections like the Muslims and the Dalits, who resented the growth of political Hindutva. Since Pawar is seen as the anchor of the MVA, which kept the BJP out of power, the NCP may be positioning itself as the real opposition to the BJP, to gain the support of these groups. At the same time, Pawar may be trying to pitch himself as the chairperson of the UPA or making a case for the UPA to be replaced with another front. The octogenarian Pawar has also nursed Prime Ministerial ambitions since the 1990s when he was in the Congress. However, these plans may be hobbled by the NCP’s inherent limitations. As a Congress minister notes, the party is seen as an outfit of the dominant Marathas. It has negligible presence across the country, unlike the Congress, which has a formidable footprint. The Dalits, who were often at odds with the Marathas, would continue to support the Congress instead of switching to the NCP, he averred.Political analyst Prakash Pawar said that while Sharad Pawar seemed to send a message that since senior leader Rahul Gandhi was unwilling to lead the Congress and the UPA, it was time for “collective leadership”. But, he had not called for the Congress to be kept away from the front, unlike Banerjee, who wanted to replace the Congress. He added that Pawar had traditionally taken a centrist approach, and had always opposed the BJP.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/at-81-sharad-pawar-takes-on-the-task-of-uniting-opposition-against-bjp-101639246063381.html
11-12-2021||Noida||Three family members of Covid infected 14-yr-old girl test positive in Ghaziabad||Three fresh Covid-19 cases were reported in the district on Saturday, taking the tally of active cases to 15. Officials from the health department said the three new cases, which emerged on Saturday, are the contacts of the 14-year-old girl who tested positive for the viral infection on Friday. Among the girl’s contacts who tested positive on Saturday are a 10-year-old girl, a 42-year-old man and a woman aged 40. “All the three patients are family members of the girl who tested positive on Friday. They all have been asked to stay in home isolation. The two adult members, who samples returned positive for Covid on Saturday, have taken both the vaccine doses. It is encouraging to see that none of the four family members have any severe conditions. All the 15 active cases are in home isolation and have not required hospitalisation till date,” said Dr Rakesh Gupta, district surveillance officer. The 14-year-old girl and her family members stay in a high-rise in Crossings Republik township in Ghaziabad. The head of the family has a travel history from Gujarat. According to official data, till December 11, there are 96 people in the district who have acquired the infection after being fully vaccinated. Officials said of the 96 cases, 24 developed mild symptoms while the rest were asymptomatic. “Our teams are trying to increase testing as there is a minor rise in the number of Covid-19 cases. We have already prepared a contingency plan for the district and the hospitals have also been asked to be ready if there is a spike in Covid-19 cases in future,” said Dr Gupta. According to the official records of the district health department, there have been 55,695 Covid cases since March last year, which include 461 deaths. So far, in the current month, the district has conducted total 44,441 Covid tests. The daily target given by the state government is 3,900 RT-PCR tests and 3,500 tests through rapid antigen kits. “We have observed a trend that people are not coming out to get themselves tested. It is vital that testing be increased and anyone suffering symptoms such as cough and cold should take the Covid test. The figures show a minor increase in cases and it is time that hospitals be kept on standby with all the necessary infrastructure and facilities in place. The vaccination is still lagging behind with regard to the administration of first doses to eligible beneficiaries and it should be expedited,” said Dr Ashish Aggarwal, former president of Indian Medical Association (Ghaziabad chapter). According to data available on the CoWIN portal, till Saturday evening, the district administered 4,047,239 vaccine doses, which includes 2,502,298 first doses against the target of administering 2,702,167 doses.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/three-family-members-of-covid-infected-14-yr-old-girl-test-positive-in-ghaziabad-101639245402884.html
11-12-2021||Lucknow||Temple’s priest found dead in Bijnor, murder suspected||A 70-year-old priest of an old Kaali Devi temple was found dead inside a room adjoining the temple premises, with an injury on his head, in a village of Bijnor district nearly 450km northwest of Lucknow on Saturday morning, said police officials.Locals suspect that the priest was murdered, the police said. The police added that some suspects have been taken into custody and are being interrogated after registering an FIR regarding the priest’s suspicious death.Sharing further details, Bijnor Superintendent of Police (SP) Dharam Veer Singh said the deceased Ram Das Giri was a priest of Jai Kaali temple in Nangla village, under Nangla police station limits. He said the deceased was found dead inside a garage-cum-room adjoining the temple premises where he stayed alone for the past many years.The SP said that. He said the body has been sent for post-mortem examination to ascertain the cause of death.“Initial suspicion was that thieves murdered him in an attempt to steal the antique idol placed in the temple, but the idol was found intact and safe,” he said. “Some suspects, who often remained present around the temple during the day, have been taken into custody for further interrogation,” SP added.He said the investigating team is taking the assistance of forensic and electronic surveillance experts. The police are investigating all the possible reasons behind the crime, and three separate teams have been formed to crack the case at the earliest, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/temples-priest-found-dead-in-bijnor-murder-suspected-101639244923478.html
11-12-2021||Lucknow||UP reports 19 fresh Covid cases, one death||Uttar Pradesh reported 19 fresh Covid cases, on Saturday, including five in Lucknow and four in Gautam Budha Nagar.According to the data shared by the state health department, Ghaziabad reported three new cases, Mathura two and one each case was reported in Saharanpur, Kanpur, Gonda, Bulandshahr and Kaushambi. One death was reported during the day from Gautam Budha Nagar.“The Covid infection has not been eliminated, hence all should follow all the protocols,” said Amit Mohan Prasad, additional chief secretary, medical health in a press statement.Among the 75 districts, 38 districts have active Covid cases under treatment, including a maximum of 29 in Lucknow and 19 in Gautam Budha Nagar. There are 144 active cases in the state, and 22914 deaths have been reported so far since the pandemic started. Against 19 fresh cases reported during the day, 15 patients made a full recovery. The state has reported a total of 1710538 cases till now and has conducted 89354015 Covid tests.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/up-reports-19-fresh-covid-cases-one-death-101639244082944.html
11-12-2021||Pune||After police bust an illegal hair treatment centre, PMC seeks validation of all such clinics||PUNE The health department of Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC), on Friday, has asked all ward offices in the city to prepare a list of all the clinics advertising themselves as trichology centres, hair and scalp clinics where skin and hair transplants and treatment-related procedures take place.The civic body has asked that ward offices ensure that all such clinics are registered under the Maharashtra Nursing home Registration Act and to ensure that the doctors practising at the clinics have the required qualification as well as are registered under the appropriate medical councils.The instruction comes two days after the Pune police bust an illegal hair treatment and transplant clinic run by a fake doctor for duping over 300 customers.The PMC health department issued a notice to all the wards in the city and instructed the officials to check if the centre has an operation theatre and the kind of surgeries performed at the operation theatres. Also, the education qualification of the medical staff at the centre should be checked and if the inspecting official finds any lacunae in the same then legal action could be initiated against the centre.The PMC will also check for the biowaste disposal system at the centre.The action comes in the light of the fake gang of doctors busted by the Pune police crime branch unit running illegally at Viman nagar. The bogus doctors were found to have duped over 300 patients. The doctors were running the clinic without any medical qualifications.The accused were booked under sections 420 (cheating), 406 (criminal breach of trust), 34 (common intention) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and relevant sections of the Maharashtra Medical Practitioners Rules.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/after-police-bust-an-illegal-hair-treatment-centre-pmc-seeks-validation-of-all-such-clinics-101639243902689.html
11-12-2021||Mumbai||Missing Swedish minor found in Mumbai||Mumbai: Responding to an Interpol’s Yellow Notice (pertaining to a missing person), the Mumbai Crime Branch traced a 17-year-old Swedish girl who had come to Mumbai to meet a 19-year-old friend whom she first interacted with on social media platform, Instagram.The teenager was traced to a house in Subhash Nagar, Cheetah Camp, and reunited with her father who flew down on Friday, an official said. The duo returned to Sweden on Saturday. The girl’s father, Sardar Tomar, filed a missing person’s complaint at the Skepepparbacken police station in Sweden on November 27, after failing to locate his daughter for several hours. By analysing the teen’s social media activity, the Swedish police found that she was in regular touch with a Mumbai-based teenager on photo-sharing platform, Instagram. Her passport details revealed that she had travelled to Mumbai. The Unit 6 of the Mumbai CB received a ‘Yellow Notice’ through their Interpol coordination cell. Unit in-charge, senior inspector Ravindra Salunkhe and his team conducted extensive search and located the girl’s friend, an 18-year-old college student, in Chembur. His sustained enquiry led the police team to a house in Cheetah Camp, Chembur where the girl had been staying for the past week. CB Interpol co-ordinator, inspector Yogesh Sable informed the Delhi Interpol and the Swedish Embassy about her, Salunkhe said. The girl was also sent to the Dongri children’s home. The girl’s father and other family members reached Mumbai on Friday to take her back home. Another police officer said the girl came in contact with the Mumbai man in January 2020 and the duo were in regular contact.Last month, following a domestic spat, the teenager applied for a tourist visa and flew to India last month. The young man had helped his friend find a place to stay at his relative’s home, and asked his sister to stay with her.“On Friday, the girl’s father arrived in Mumbai and produced relevant documents. After due verification and securing NOCs from concerned authorities, Sweden embassy and central government officers, the girl was handed over to her father after due counselling by the officers at the children home,” said Crime Branch DCP (detection) Neelotpal.The father-daughter duo on Saturday travelled back to Sweden. Tomar posted a letter on Twitter on Saturday thanking the Mumbai police for doing an excellent job. “Their work is tough and very difficult, but still they do it in the best way actually so there are not enough words to describe them but they are quite simply best,” Tomar wrote.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/missing-swedish-minor-found-in-mumbai-101639243722667.html
11-12-2021||Mumbai||BMC starts three-point response after Dharavi reports one Omicron case||Mumbai Fever camps, disinfection of public premises, and speeding up of vaccination- these are Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation’s (BMC) three-point response for Dharavi, after one Omicron positive case was detected from the slum pocket.Kiran Dighavkar, assistant commissioner of the G/North ward with jurisdiction over Dharavi said, “Since 80% of Dharavi’s residents depend on community toilets, we are disinfecting them as many times during the day as possible, to check any spread of infection. It is noticed that the residents of Dharavi often hesitate to take Covid tests. They have a hand to mouth existence and feel they cannot afford one. So, we are organising free testing camps as well.”BMC has also approached private practitioners in Dharavi and roped in non-governmental organisations who are already working in Dharavi to inoculate its residents, to conduct surveys and to coach unvaccinated residents.Dighavkar said, “We have asked doctors who operate clinics in Dharavi to speak to those who visit them. Door-to-door surveys to check vaccination will also be done, and we have roped in NGOs to help with this.”A 49-year-old male, who returned from Tanzania and landed in Mumbai on December 4, had tested positive for Covid in his RT-PCR test done at the airport on arrival. He was tested even though Tanzania is not among the at-risk countries categorised by the Indian government, as a part of tests done randomly for 2% of international passengers.While on his way to Dharavi, the person received his positive RTPCR report. He was quarantined, and his sample was sent for genome sequencing. On Friday, the genome sequencing results revealed he tested positive for the Omicron variant.Dighavkar said, “On December 4 itself, all protocol was followed and two high-risk contacts of this person were tested. They tested negative. No more procedure is remaining. The person is being treated at the Seven Hills Hospital in Andheri, and is asymptomatic.”At the beginning of the pandemic in March 2020, Dharavi was a Covid hotspot in Mumbai. BMC had then adopted its 3T approach to successfully contain the outbreak.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/bmc-starts-three-point-response-after-dharavi-reports-one-omicron-case-101639242643827.html
11-12-2021||Mumbai||No Omicron case detected on Saturday||Mumbai No new cases of the Omicron variant were detected in Maharashtra on Saturday. As of Saturday, there were 17 Covid cases of the Omicron variant in the state, of which five have been reported from Mumbai, 10 from Pimpri-Chinchwad, one from Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC), and one from Kalyan-Dombivali. Seven of these patients were discharged on Saturday, after a negative RT-PCR test report.Between December 1 and December 11, a total of 21 passengers arriving from at-risk countries, and five passengers arriving from other countries to Mumbai, Nagpur, and Pune airports have tested positive for Covid-19, and their samples were sent for genome sequencing. These are out of RT-PCR tests conducted for a total of 10,685 passengers from at-risk countries, and 1,379 passengers from other countries.Maharashtra reported 807 fresh Covid cases on Saturday, and 20 deaths, taking the tally to 6,643,179, and toll to 141,243. For the second time, since the beginning of the pandemic in March 2020, Mumbai reported zero deaths on Saturday, after October 17 this year. On Saturday, Mumbai reported 246 fresh, taking the caseload to 765,049, and the toll remains at 16,355. While Thane Municipal Corporation area detected 29 Covid cases on Saturday, Navi Mumbai reported 36, Kalyan Dombivali Municipal Corporation reported 13 cases and one death, Mira Bhayandar reported nine, Panvel reported seven cases and one death.A day after Mumbai reported three more Covid patients of the Omicron variant on Friday, BMC said a total of 58 beds in two wards at Seven Hills Hospital have been readied for Omicron positive patients and Covid positive patients who are suspected cases of Omicron variant. Each of the patients are kept in single occupancy rooms. Presently, there are five patients of the Omicron variant and 30 suspected patients of the Omicron variant who are positive for Covid. Nine patients have been discharged from Seven Hills so far after their RT-PCR tests showed negative results post the mandatory quarantine period of 14 days.According to information from BMC, 393 international passengers from at-risk countries arrived in Mumbai on Friday, and a total of 6,024 passengers have arrived so far.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/no-omicron-case-detected-on-saturday-101639242223922.html
11-12-2021||Lucknow||75% work of UP’s Saryu canal project was done under SP rule: Akhilesh||Samajwadi Party (SP) national president Akhilesh Yadav and Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday exchanged barbs over the Saryu Nahar (canal) National Project and BJP’s new catchphrase for 2022 UP assembly polls—”Farq Saaf Hai” (difference is clear).Hours before PM Narendra Modi inaugurated the ₹9800 crore project in east UP’s Balrampur district, Samajwadi Party (SP) national president Akhilesh Yadav in two tweets in Hindi claimed that three-fourth the project work was done during his regime and that the BJP only cut ribbons of the projects initiated by them. While Akhilesh in his tweets called the BJP government “kainchijivi” (those cutting ribbons)”, the PM said someone might have cut its ribbon in their “childhood” without taking any names. “Three-fourth of the Saryu Nahar National Project work was done during the SP government and this BJP government took five years to complete the remaining work,” the SP chief claimed in his tweet.Akhilesh’s tweet was seemingly in response to the PM Modi’s tweets the night before in which he had said: “You would be shocked to know that work on the Saryu Nahar National Project began in 1978 but for decades the project was never completed. Costs increased and so did people’s woes. A project that remained incomplete for four decades has been finished in four years.”In what appeared to be a jibe at Samajwadi Party chief Akhilesh Yadav, the PM said after inaugurating the project, “When I started from Delhi, I was waiting for someone to say that he had cut the ribbon of this project and started this scheme. This is the habit of some people, maybe in their childhood they had cut its ribbon. Some people’s priority is ‘imagination’, ours is execution.”After the inauguration of the project, Akhilesh at a press conference in Lucknow said and also tweeted in an apparent reference to BJP’s “Fraq Saaf Hai” campaign: “There are basically two types of people in the world, some who really work and some who appropriate others’ work. This is the difference between the government of SP and today’s ‘Kainchijivi’ (ribbon cutting) government. That’s why in 2022 elections the BJP is going to be completely wiped out.” “The BJP is about to complete five years in power but they have not even had the time to look at their own ‘sankalp patra’ (manifesto). They are spending money meant for schemes in ads, banners and hoardings. Samajwadi Party gave students laptops while the BJP has rained lathis on the youth. Yeh ‘Farq Saaf Hai’ (the difference between the previous SP government and the present BJP government is clear). If anyone wants to change any name, give a request to the chief minister and the name will be changed— Farq Saaf Hai,” Akhilesh tweeted.“Our government arranged the land for AIIMS in Gorakhpur while the BJP people filed PILs to put hurdles in the project—Farq Saaf Hai. This BJP government announced a university in the name of their leader and the late PM Atal Bihari Vajpayee but did not build the university itself. From where has the university been functioning from? At a floor from the Ram Manohar Lohia Institute built by the SP government-Farq Saaf Hai,” he said.When asked about speculations of alliance with union minister and BJP ally Anupriya Patel and her party Apna Dal (Solelal), Akhilesh said at the press conference, “We will see but first she should quit her ministership”. The Samajwadi Party has already allied with the other faction of Apna Dal—Apna Dal (Krishna Patel)—led by Anupriya’s mother Krishna Patel.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/75-work-of-up-s-saryu-canal-project-was-done-under-sp-rule-akhilesh-101639242102931.html
11-12-2021||Lucknow||Lucknow CP’s second sample tests Covid negative, but to stay in isolation||The second sample of Lucknow Commissioner of Police (CP) DK Thakur, who had tested Covid positive on Friday during a routine screening, tested negative for the virus on Saturday. The spokesman of Lucknow Commissionerate said the CP was completely health and doing his routine work but will remain in isolation for around a week.The spokesman said the sample for the first RT-PCR test of the CP was taken on Thursday and its report came positive on Friday after which he immediately went into isolation. He said the CP didn’t had any symptom and therefore gave another sample for testing.The spokesman added that report of second sample came negative on Saturday but the CP will still remain in isolation as guided by senior doctors. Earlier, the CP had stated that he was fully vaccinated and healthy to dispense all his official duties.The routine Covid-19 screening of other senior police personnel is also being done regularly on suggestion of the state government. The state government has increased screening for Covid-19 infections across the state amidst fear of spread of new variant.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/lucknow-cp-s-second-sample-tests-covid-negative-but-to-stay-in-isolation-101639241863029.html
11-12-2021||Lucknow||Wing Cdr Prithvi Singh cremated with full state honours in UP’s Agra||With moist eyes, family, friends and general public bade adieu to Wing Commander Prithvi Singh Chauhan here on Saturday. Chauhan was cremated with full state honours at Tajganj crematorium here in the afternoon. His daughter Aradhya, 12, and son Aviraj,7, lit the pyre. A resident of Saran Nagar locality in Agra, Chauhan, 42, had died in the Wednesday’s chopper crash in Tamil Nadu in which chief of defence staff General Bipin Rawat, his wife and 10 others too had lost their lives. Earlier in the day, the mortal remains of Indian Air Force (IAF) officer reached Agra airport where union minister of state for law and justice prof SP Singh Baghel, IAF officials, Agra DM Prabhu N Singh and SSP Sudhir K Singh paid their tribute to the departed soul. Emotions ran high when Chauhan’s wife Kamini Singh Chauhan wife reached near the coffin wrapped in the Tricolour. She stood composed as she guided her son and daughter who offered floral tributes to the mortal remains of their father. Then the mortal remains of the IAF officer left for his house in a military truck. All along the 8-km stretch from the airport to Saran Nagar, locals showered flower petals on the vehicle as a mark of tribute to the departed soul. A large number of people had gathered outside Chauhan’s house to pay their last respects to him. Family, friends and relatives were in tears as Chauhan’s aged father Surendra Singh, 74, and mother Susheela Singh, 70, broke down once the IAF personnel entered their house carrying Chauhan’s mortal remains on their shoulders. Later, the funeral procession was taken out in which people in large numbers took part.
11-12-2021||Lucknow||Ahead of UP polls: Mega projects lined up for foundation laying, inauguration||The Yogi Adityanath government has lined up mega projects for foundation laying and inauguration in December- January before Uttar Pradesh goes to assembly polls next year. The 594-km long Ganga Expressway, the country longest expressway, is all set for foundation laying ceremony on December 18.Prime Minister Narendra Modi will lay the foundation stone of the mega project costing ₹36,230 crore in Shahajahanpur district. Next in the line for inauguration are five airports across the state. They will be made operational by the end of this month. A mega ceremony will be organised for making operational these five airports in which PM will be the chief guest.Next year focus will shift to Ayodhya. Union Civil Aviation ministry is all set to lay foundation stone of Sri Ram International Airport in Ayodhya. The state government has acquired 351 acre land for the mega project. PM Modi will lay foundation stone of the airport in January 2022.With the Ayodhya airport, the state government plans to connect the temple town with the rest of the country and international tourist circuit. The Ayodhya airport project is part of the state government’s plan to propel Ayodhya in the international religious tourist circuit. “Foundation laying ceremony of the Ayodhya airport is likely to take place by the end of this month or in January next year. All preparations are in final stage,” said Ved Prakash Gupta, BJP MLA from Ayodhya (Sadar) assembly segment. Nand Gopal Nandi, minister for Civil Aviation in the state government, is monitoring progress of the five airport projects to make sure inauguration ceremony takes place by the end of this month as scheduled. 
11-12-2021||Lucknow||Prayagraj Magh Mela-2022: Untreated waste falling into Ganga, Yamuna to be stopped||Now all untreated waste from drains falling into the Ganga and the Yamuna rivers would be stopped and weekly sampling and testing of the water of these drains would be done thrice a week starting from January 1 next. This and many more important decisions were taken at a progress review meeting of the works of Magh Mela-2022 held under divisional commissioner Sanjay Goyal on Friday.In the meeting, held at ICCC auditorium located in the Prayagraj Mela Authority office, it was decided that in an effort to maintain cleanliness of the rivers, necessary guidelines be given to the authorities concerned to prevent 100% discharge of untreated sewage into rivers. “Besides, samples of the drain water would be collected and the same would be tested at labs of pollution control board and Ganga pollution control unit as the lab located at Motilal Nehru National Institute of Technology (MNNIT) has limited resources,” the commissioner said.“In order to stop erosion due to the strong currents of the Ganga in various places of the Mela area, the irrigation department has been asked to take necessary steps to check it,” he added. While reviewing the works of public works department (PWD), the commissioner directed that as the pace of construction of pontoon bridges being built in the Mela area was slow, officers should ensure that bridge number 1 and 2, being built on Mahavir and Triveni Margs, were completed by December 15 and the other three bridges by December 25.In view of pandemic and the necessary precautions to be taken thereof, the health department has been instructed to arrange sampling centres and ambulances in sufficient quantity. The department is also making arrangements for 15 sampling centres, 30 ambulances and about 11 vaccination centres for the annual mela this time. For proper hyenine and cleanliness, it has been agreed to build 15,000 toilets in the mela area. Of these, there would be 1500 pre-fabricated steel toilets, 3,000 tent toilets, 300 urinals, 9,000 institutional toilets and 900 at government institutions.For the devotees, authorities would be constructing at least 10 ghats stretching from Nagvasuki to Sangam. Because of these ghats, the numbers of devotees wishing to take a dip at Sangam would be diverted accordingly to avoid overcrowding. It has been made clear to all that consumption of non-vegetarian food, liquor or use of any other type of intoxicant would remain strictly prohibited in the mela area. Likewise, obscene or vulgar dances or songs will also be prohibited. Authorities have decided that like previous melas, there would be two central control rooms for lost and found camp. The entire mela area would be illuminated by several high-mast and proper lighting. Installing blower or heaters in the camps would be prohibited.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/prayagraj-magh-mela-2022-untreated-waste-falling-into-ganga-yamuna-to-be-stopped-101639241022924.html
11-12-2021||Lucknow||Now, QR codes on all exercising machines in Prayagraj’s open-air gyms||Even as health-conscious people in Prayagraj are in increasing numbers using the open-air gyms installed at 200-odd sites across the city, officials have decided to take further steps to not only attract more people but also ensure that they use each of the exercising machines properly to derive maximum benefit.Noting that locals using these machines are oblivious regarding their proper use, officials have now decided to put up quick response (QR) codes on all the 2000-odd exercise machines installed in open air gyms set up under the Prayagraj Smart City project. By scanning these QR codes with their mobile phones, users will be able to access relevant information regarding proper use of these exercise machines, officials say.The decision in this regard was taken at the review meeting held under divisional commissioner Sanjay Goyal to assess the progress of the works being done under Smart City Project and Prayagraj Development Authority. “The open-air gyms were started by us with the aim of helping denizens remain fit and to provide all the exercising equipment to them free of cost which were otherwise only available in commercially run gymnasiums. Now as the user scans the QR code from their mobile phones, all the information about how the machine can be used and for which exercise would become available immediately”, said divisional commissioner Sanjay Goyal. Display of these QR codes would go a long way in making these equipment more user friendly, he added. For the past around two years, a set of 12 equipment with the numbers differing slightly as per the area available have been installed at different parks, roadsides and open spaces in various localities of the city. As the sets of exercise equipment are very sturdy and free of cost, it became an instant hit among the locals and within no time they became immensely popular. Among the locations where these exercising equipment are installed include Durga Puja Park of Preetam Nagar, Children’s Park Church Lane, Shivaji Park and Saraswati Park of Mumforganj, D Park of Katra, Kalyani Devi Park of Attarsuai, Ramleela Park of Allahapur, Swarooprani Park of Zero Road, Dilip Jaiswal Park of Kdyganj, Hashimpur Park of Tagore town etc.Along with these, open spaces besides several important roads also have the equipment installed. Some of the equipment include chin-up dipping, standing waist trainer, solder wheel, space walker, bicycle, leg press, rowing machine, pull chair, chest press, scaling ladder, sit up bench etc.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/now-qr-codes-on-all-exercising-machines-in-prayagraj-s-open-air-gyms-101639240362982.html
11-12-2021||Bhopal||Vyapam scam: Court convicts trio, sentences them to 5-year rigorous imprisonment||A special Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) court on Saturday convicted three men, and sentenced them to rigorous imprisonment (RI) of five years in connection with the infamous Vyapam scam. The three were convicted by the court for cheating a doctor to the tune of ₹13 lakh under the pretext of helping his son clear the 2012 Pre-Medical Test (PMT) conducted by the Madhya Pradesh Vyavsayik Parkisha Mandal or Vyapam.Also Read | Vyapam scam accused cop robs businessmen of ₹60L, says did it to fight caseThe CBI court judge, Sanjay Kumar Gupta, found Sourav Kumar Singh, Umesh Srivastava and Praveen Singh, all of whom are members of an inter-state gang, and residents of Bihar, Chhattisgarh and Uttar Pradesh, respectively, guilty of offences under various sections of the Indian Penal Code (IPC), special public prosecutor Ranjan Sharma said. They were found guilty under sections 420 (cheating) and 467 (forgery of a document), as well as other counts of the IPC, Sharma said, citing the order.The judge also levied a fine of ₹8000 each on the three other convicts.Also Read | Vyapam scam: CBI court sentences doctor to 5 years in jailBesides the three, a fourth accused, Setu Raj from Bihar, has been convicted as well, and an arrest warrant has been issued against him, the special public prosecutor further said.The Vyapam scam came to light in 2013, with the arrest of 20 people in Indore. Those arrested had appeared in medical entrance exam in place of undeserving candidates, to help them secure high ranks. The scam involved a total of 13 exams conducted by Vyapam, for the selection of medical students and state government employees.The Supreme Court, in 2015, directed the CBI to investigate the scam.(With PTI inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bhopal-news/vyapam-scam-court-convicts-trio-sentences-them-to-5-year-rigorous-imprisonment-101639239275772.html
11-12-2021||Patna||PU directs colleges to fill 851 vacant seats in UG courses by Dec 23||Patna University (PU) has directed its constituent colleges to fill the remaining seats in undergraduate (UG) courses by December 23, officials aware of the development said on Saturday.A total of 851 out of 4,291 sanctioned seats in the UG course are vacant despite three rounds of counselling and on-the-spot admission. According to officials, PU’s vice-chancellor Girish Kumar Choudhary asked the colleges to initiate decentralised admission by treating vacant seats as ‘casual vacancies’ and fill them by December end.PU commenced the centralised admission process on August 1 and concluded in November.As per the varsity officials, colleges would prioritise students who had already applied in the centralised admission process and give preference to the applicants based on merit. PU students’ welfare dean Anil Kumar said, “The details of honours-wise vacancies have been made available to the concerned institutions. Admission process under casual vacancies is likely to expedite from Monday.”Colleges with vacant seats are Magadh Mahila College (175), Patna College (244), BN College (231), Patna Science College (117) and Vanijya Mahavidyalaya (84). Of the total vacant seats, 140 seats are available in economics, 120 in history, 100 in sociology and 84 each in geography and psychology, etc.Meanwhile, the last date for filling the ongoing online admission form in post-graduation (PG) regular courses (MA, MSc and Mcom) is December 20. “We have already closed the application window for PG vocational courses. Concerned departments have started preparations for holding the entrance exam. Admission in PG regular courses will be taken based on merit. We hope to complete PG admissions by January”, said Kumar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/pu-directs-colleges-to-fill-851-vacant-seats-in-ug-courses-by-dec-23-101639238803660.html
11-12-2021||Patna||V-C in firing line sends defamation notice to complainant, trashes charges||The man in the firing line amid the controversies surrounding the higher education institutions of Bihar, Lalit Narayan Mithila University vice-chancellor (V-C) SP Singh has hit back, serving a ₹5.10-crore defamation notice to Maulana Mazharul Haq Arabic and Persian University (MMHAPU) V-C Prof Md Qudus, who had alleged serious financial irregularities by his predecessor (Singh) in a letter to chief minister Nitish Kumar last month.Singh has accused Qudus of levelling “defamatory and false allegations against him, which has caused him mental torture and loss of reputation”.Singh, who headed the search committee that around three months ago recommended Qudus’s name for the top academic post, said that when everything had been done by the tender committee, which is a statutory regulating body, and payment to the firm has also been made by present MMHAPU V-C, defamatory allegations against him, especially on the eve of the function where he was presented the best V-C award by the Chancellor, looked “shocking and motivated”.Qudus also had to face another rebuke from the MMHAPU syndicate, the highest statutory body, earlier this week, when it approved the payment to all the university staff, including those outsourced, like before and termed their appointment as per rules. The inquiry ordered by him also could not start as three of the five members of the inquiry committee refused to be part of it. The V-C had alleged irregularities in the outsourcing of staff also in his letter.Qudus, on the other hand, said he would reply to the notice. “In a democracy, everyone has a right to defend himself and speak up. I felt wrong, and so I raised the issues. I have not made full payment to the firm. Against the supply of 1.60-lakh answer books, the university had to pay ₹28 lakh. I have stopped the ₹6-lakh payment, as the GSM (grams per square meter) had not been decided. As far as the syndicate decision is concerned, I have the power under the Bihar State Universities Act to accept the recommendation or not. The syndicate has indeed approved payment to the staff as before. I will refer the matter to the Chancellor office or the education department for their guidance,” he added.Singh said that there was a laid down procedure for everything, and the V-C could not take any decision by his whims and fancies. “I welcome the government’s move to go in for performance audit of all the state universities. I had raised the issue of performance and financial auditing in universities at the very beginning, as there is a lot that needs to be set right. Even the employees’ basic details and origin are not properly available, and no automated updating is done. I have had an unblemished track record spanning over four decades. The college where I was the principal, National PG College (Lucknow), is among the top colleges at the national level. What I have done at Bihar universities is for all to see, though a lot more is needed,” he said, adding “Pataliputra University during his temporary charge was the only university in the state that could conduct pre-Ph.D registration test in the last five years and LNMU successfully conducted the combined B.Ed entrance test, but those who work often end up facing obstacles.”The LNMU V-C said that he had been given temporary charge of three universities and made the head of the search committee by the Raj Bhawan. “Not only Qudus, but all the V-Cs appointed by the search committee headed by me are also from Bihar, contrary to the perception being developed that all the V-Cs are from UP. I work with no baggage. I have no axe to grind. Qudus wrote against me while he cleared the payment for the company that supplied answer books. Negotiations were also done with the company. If the order was wrong, he should have cancelled the tender and invited a fresh one. He also took overcharge in my absence as I was in Lucknow those days. There was no formal handing over of charge, while he said his joining was delayed with an ulterior motive,” he added.Maintaining that the V-C is not involved with the tendering process, Singh said that he had, however, issued a resolution that the quantity of the answer books to be purchased should not be more than 10% of the requirement and if there was any delay in issuing the fresh tender, old, established process should be adopted. “Exams cannot wait and therefore 10% extra copies should be normally there to be ready for any eventuality, viz. exam cancellation, destruction or any other reason. I don’t even know the company that has supplied answer books. If Md Qudus had reasons to believe that there was anything wrong with the process adopted or quality, he should not have allowed payment and simply ordered fresh tender,” he added.Despite all the heat generated over him, Singh remains the V-C of LNMU and continues to hold the additional charge of Aryabhat Knowledge University and Pataliputra University. In Pataliputra University, a new V-C, RK Singh from Bipin Tripathi Kumaon Institute of Technology (Uttarakhand), was appointed on November 24 but is yet to take charge even after a fortnight. “What is the hurry? I will take charge after completing some formalities, and once I do, it will be known,” he said.
11-12-2021||Delhi||79-year-old woman found dead inside her house in Delhi's Rajinder Nagar||A 79-year-old woman was found dead inside her house on Saturday afternoon in central Delhi’s Old Rajinder Nagar area, police said.The deceased has been identified as Kusum Singhal, they said, adding that the woman was apparently hit with a brick on her head.According to police, Singhal’s husband had died a few years ago and she was living alone in the house. She had two daughters -- one of them lives in south Delhi with her husband, while the other one lives in Switzerland.On Saturday afternoon, when her daughter was not able to reach her over the phone, she called a neighbour to check on her.When the neighbour reached the residence of the deceased around 2.10 pm, he found Singhal lying on the floor, Deputy Commissioner of Police (central) Shweta Chauhan said.“Prima facie, it seems to be a friendly entry. She was hit on the head with a brick. The household items were found dispersed, however, it is yet to be ascertained whether the accused robbed anything or not,” police said.An FIR was registered at Rajinder Nagar Police Station under relevant sections and an investigation is on to nab the culprit.Police are checking CCTV footages of the area to get a clue about the incident, they said.A post mortem will be conducted on Sunday, police said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/79yearold-woman-found-dead-inside-her-house-in-delhi-s-rajinder-nagar-101639238243304.html
11-12-2021||Ranchi||Jharkhand girl gang-raped while being taken to hospital to meet ailing sister||A 12-year-old girl was allegedly gang-raped by two men on the pretext of taking her to a hospital in Jharkhand's Palamu district to meet her ailing sister, police said on Saturday. Additional Superintendent of Police Kumar Vijay Shankar said the girl is undergoing treatment at Medinirai Medical College and Hospital and her condition is stated to be serious. The girl, who hails from Garhwa district, was visiting her sister's in-laws' Semra village in Chainpur police station area of Palamu district. The incident took place on Friday when the two accused, who also hail from Semra, offered to take the girl in their jeep to a private hospital in Medininagar town where her sister was undergoing treatment, the officer said. However, they gang-raped her mid-way and then dropped her at the hospital and fled, he said, adding that a manhunt has been launched to nab the accused.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ranchi-news/jharkhand-girl-gang-raped-while-being-taken-to-hospital-to-meet-ailing-sister-101639237111377.html
11-12-2021||Pune||Pune ophthalmologists urge state health minister to allow day care facilities at eye clinics||PUNE Members of the Poona Ophthalmological Society (POS) have urged state health minister Rajesh Tope to allow eye clinics and OPD (Out Patient Department) centres to run as day care centres.A day care procedure allows one to be hospitalised at the centre for less than 24 hours which allows in return for the patients to claim benefits under health insurance schemes.Tope, who was at the 14th annual two-day conference of the Poona Ophthalmological Society ‘POS Spectrum 2021’ on Saturday, promised to expedite the process and allow day care centres at eye clinics.Dr Prakash Marathe, the chief trustee of POS, said, “Under the Bombay Nursing Home Act, a medical facility can be registered as a nursing home/ hospital or a clinic. While hospitals and nursing homes can treat IPD and OPD patients, clinics are allowed to treat only OPD patients since they do not need any admission. However, if the government allows eye clinics to be registered as day care facilities, the ophthalmologists can conduct most eye procedures which require less than 24 hours of admission.”“The patient can also claim benefits under various health insurance schemes that require hospitalisation. Even after a complicated eye surgery the patient is required to be admitted only for a few hours and eye clinics would be able to do that under day care centre facilities,” he said.At the event, Tope also emphasised the importance of eye donations and that the ophthalmological society must work to create awareness of eye donations.He said, “We were able to bring down blindness in the state from 3.5% to almost 0.35% which we aim to further bring down to 0.25% in the next two to five years under the central government scheme of the national programme for control of blindness”“We know that cataract is the major cause of blindness in over 80% of the cases. Also, some of the causes could be birth defects and also diabetes. The state of Maharashtra also provides free spectacles to children as today the exposure to radiation through multiple screens like TV, laptop, mobile and others is unavoidable. The ophthalmological society needs to work even more to create awareness towards eye donation,” he said.“The number of eye banks, eye donations and eye transplants need to increase. In the last two years because of the pandemic the work regarding non-communicable diseases was completely hampered but now we need to fill in the gaps,” he said.India’s leading ophthalmologist Dr Tatyarao Lahane also emphasised on the need to increase eye donation awareness.He said, “Despite being a smaller country in terms of population than us, we have to import eyeballs and corneas from our neighbour Sri Lanka. With about one lakh deaths annually Sri Lanka gets over 2 lakh corneas and with approximately ten lakh deaths, we get around 70 thousand eyeballs only.Dr Lahane also said that to reduce the conflict between patients and the doctors, the doctor must explain the procedure in detail not just to the patient but also to the relatives.He said, “I have seen that more bilateral and mature cataract surgeries are coming up now. Counselling is important, not just to the relatives but to the patients as well. With proper counselling, patients and doctors’ conflicts will reduce.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pune-ophthalmologists-urge-state-health-minister-to-allow-day-care-facilities-at-eye-clinics-101639237062261.html
11-12-2021||Mumbai||Nizam’s city just four hours away from Mumbai||Mumbai: Imagine travelling to The city of Nizams in just four hours from Mumbai. It isn’t a far-fetched dream but a reality in the making. A detailed project report (DPR) is being prepared for the proposed Mumbai-Hyderabad high speed rail corridor by National High Speed Rail Corporation Limited (NHSRCL), a subsidiary of Railway Ministry formed to build highspeed train routes (called bullet trains) in India.If this plan works out, passengers will be able to travel between Mumbai and Hyderabad by a high-speed train in about four hours. It will be at least ten hours less than the time required to travel by train as of now and a little more than double the time required by a flight which is an average 90 minutes. Mumbai-Hyderabad high speed rail corridor is likely to be a joint project of the central and the Maharashtra government.In response to Railway’s plans, chief minister Uddhav Thackeray has already written a letter to Prime Minister Narendra Modi offering to work jointly on the project which will also connect some cities in Maharashtra. It is proposed that a 10-coach train with a capacity of approximately 750 passengers should be operated between Mumbai and Hyderabad. A senior NHSRCL official informed that the proposed alignment of the corridor will be different considering mountainous terrain on the route. It will be overground unlike the Mumbai-Ahmedabad bullet train which will be partially underground. The DPR will be submitted to the government by mid-2022 and after discussions the final alignment of Mumbai- Hyderabad will be decided.Under the DPR, an aerial survey for land acquisition is already conducted in September 2021. Study of land requirements, number of railway stations, construction of terminals and station premises, identification of overhead facilities, underhead and underground utilities is being done. The cost of the project too is yet to be worked out. It will depend on the land acquisition process, said officials.According to the NHSRCL officials nearly 1,200 hectares of land would be required for the project. A meeting with state government officials in Maharashtra and in Telangana was held in November end and September. “The project will then go to the Railway ministry for sanction following which bids will be invited from companies to build the same,”the official added. Passenger associations say any plan to provide faster transportation for the people is a good step.“It is a welcoming move. to build a high speed corridor to connect Mumbai, Pune and Hyderabad. People wanting to travel to Pune will also be able to reach their destination quicker. Though it will be a bit expensive, travelling between Mumbai and Pune would become smoother. Presently it takes upto three hours by trains.” said Subhash Gupta, president, Rail Yatri Parishad. Further, apart from Mumbai - Hyderabad and Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s pet project of high speed railway corridor between Mumbai - Ahmedabad, the NHSRCL will also construct Delhi - Varanasi, Mumbai Nagpur, Delhi - Ahmedabad, Chennai- Bangalore- Mysore, Delhi - Amritsar and Varanasi - Patna -Howrah high speed train corridors. The DPR of the high speed railway corridor between Mumbai -Nagpur will be submitted by NHSRCL to the state government in the starting of 2022.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/nizams-city-just-four-hours-away-from-mumbai-101639237001605.html
11-12-2021||Mumbai||Couple, 4 others arrested in Bhiwandi for trying to sell one-week old baby girl||A couple who tried to sell their newborn was arrested by Thane Crime Branch Unit 1 along with four mediators who were helping them in the crime.The couple, who had four girls, was expecting a boy the fifth time. However, when they had a girl child, they decided to sell the one-week-old baby.The accused, Vakil Ansari, 37 is an auto rickshaw driver and stays with his wife Mumtaj, 29, and four daughters in Bhiwandi. The girl was born on December 4 and they decided to sell her for ₹1.50 lakh thinking it will end their financial trouble. Four mediators, Zeenat Khan, 22, Wasim Shaikh, 23, Kaynat Khan, 30, Mujamill Khan, 18, who helped the parents were also arrested. Thane crime branch officials got a tip off and laid a trap posing as buyers. The family handed over the child when they were arrested. An official from Unit 1 said, “We took the baby safely in our custody and nabbed all six accused in the case. The child is safe in a children’s home in Dombivli.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/couple-4-others-arrested-in-bhiwandi-for-trying-to-sell-one-week-old-baby-girl-101639234902080.html
11-12-2021||Mumbai||Not a single first-year PG medical student joins course in 2021||Frustration, uncertainty and anguish describe the current state of the medical fraternity. With constant delays in admission due to rising Covid-19 cases and a series of petitions pending in different courts, the fraternity is left without one full batch of postgraduate (PG) medical students across the country.What’s worse- the resident doctors currently pursuing second and third-year PG medical courses are shouldering the workload of three batches of resident doctors with the current strength of two batches- which has resulted in exhaustion and worsening mental health conditions.The admissions which were meant to commence in February this year will now start sometime in January next year, which means, not a single first-year PG medical student joins the course in 2021.Frustrated with the current state of affairs, resident doctors across several government and corporation run hospitals in the country have started protests and are demanding for admissions to begin at the earliest.While both the central government as well as respective state governments are requesting the Supreme Court of India to speed up the hearing of the ongoing petitions, very little seems to be happening on the ground.23-year-old Dr Ojas Tapse has been waiting for admissions to begin since January this year. “In the peak of the second wave, my batch was still preparing for final year MBBS exams and at the same time, we were also working extra hours in the Covid wards of the respective hospitals we were attached with. To continue our work, we had to seek admissions into a postgraduate course and while at first NEET-PG was delayed by nearly seven months and now delay in admissions is leaving us all frustrated,” said Tapse, one of the thousands of PG medical aspirants in Maharashtra affected by this delay.Dr Shruti Pawar (24) cleared her MBBS in 2020 and used the last one year to complete her rural internship before applying for NEET-PG. “At a time when the country is witnessing the rise of a new Covid variant, the least that needs to be done is strengthening of the health care system and we need all hands-on deck. Yet here we are, waiting for admissions to begin so we can help,” said Pawar. What’s worse is that like several aspiring doctors, Pawar has an education loan to worry about. “Constant delay has left us lagging a year behind in our education and this means I will have to start repaying my loan even before I complete my post-graduation. No one is talking about this,” she added.The National Eligibility-cum-Entrance Test (NEET-PG) 2021 exam which should take place in January was postponed to February first, then April this year. It was eventually delayed indefinitely due to increasing cases of Covid-19 registered across the country.The entrance test was finally conducted in September this year, but admissions post the exam has been stayed by the Supreme Court which is currently hearing a series of petitions filed by students questioning the validity of implementation of EWS and OBC quota in all India quota (AIQ) seats.“Nowhere else in the world has education been affected to this extent where an entire batch of PG medical students was not admitted due to Covid. Instead of focussing on hiring more doctors on board, our system has ensured that no medical student is admitted to the system in 2021,” said another first-year PG medical aspirant, on condition of anonymity.“Currently, a plea has been issued by the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare as well as the union health minister has assured that the Prime Minister’s office is looking into this issue, we are hoping for a positive outcome within a week. There are at present nearly 50,000 PG medical aspirants waiting for counselling and considering the rising number of Omicron cases, the authorities should fast-track the Admissions process to avoid burnout among the current batches of PG medical students,” said Dr Pranav Jadhav.Vice-president central Maharashtra Association of Resident Doctors (MARD).Associations of resident doctors across the country have once again threatened to suspend OPD services within a week if the stay on admissions is not vacated soon. “No amount of protests or threats will work until the government and judiciary don’t wake up. Meanwhile, we (first year PG medical aspirants) are hoping to be back in the hospital wards, fighting the fight and hoping for a better future,” said Dr Pawar.
11-12-2021||Mumbai||Women auto drivers demand separate lanes for them at stands in Kalyan, Dombivli stations||The women auto rickshaw drivers from the twin cities have demanded a dedicated lane at the stands for them at both Kalyan and Dombivli railway stations.A meeting was held by the Aboli women auto rickshaw association at Kalyan’s Sai Chowk on Saturday in which around 35 to 40 women auto drivers attended and raised their complaints.“The Aboli women auto rickshaw association was formed first in Panvel in 2018 to address the issues related to women auto drivers and help them do their job with all dignity among the men auto drivers. The association fights for the rights of all the women auto drivers across all the cities,” said Santosh Bhagat, president of the association.He added, “There is a dedicated lane for women auto drivers in Panvel. Similarly, there should be one in every city including Kalyan and Dombivli. We have been demanding this for almost a year.”Bhagyashree Dhondiwale, 38, one of the women auto drivers, said, “There is a need to have a dedicated lane for women auto drivers so that we feel safe even working during the late hours. We can use the lane as per our convenience as not all of us are full-time auto drivers.”Outside the Kalyan railway station, there are dedicated lanes for auto drivers where both women and men auto drivers park their auto rickshaw.The Kalyan Regional Transport Authority has introduced a dedicated helpline number –9423448824 – for those who want to raise a complaint against errant auto drivers.
11-12-2021||Mumbai||Sharad Pawar accuses BJP of rewriting textbooks||Mumbai Attacking the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) for rewriting textbooks to influence students, Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) president Sharad Pawar said that the ruling dispensation wanted to replicate the Ram temple agitation at other religious sites.He was speaking at an event where a compilation of his speeches was released. Pawar said that based on the prevailing situation, it seemed that “a systematic, well-planned policy had been drawn up and was being implemented” to change academic texts and influence the thinking of young minds. Calling this a worrying trend, the NCP chief added that this rewriting of textbooks was meant to impress certain ideas on students. He appealed to experts to work on countering this.The NCP chief pointed to how a BJP MP had said in the Rajya Sabha that their work on the Ram temple and Babri Masjid had been completed, and two more things (a possible reference to the disputed sites at Mathura and Kashi) were yet to be achieved.“He said that for these two things, we all have to collectively utilize our strength,” said Pawar, adding that the demolition of the Babri Masjid in December 1992 had led to massive rioting and loss of lives across the country, including in Mumbai. Pawar warned that there were attempts to recreate this situation, and called on people to stay united.“At least a leader of Sharad Pawar’s stature should know that the National Council of Educational Research and Training (NCERT) frames textbooks and decides what should go into these books, and what should not. To make such wild allegations against the BJP is childish. It is the people of Uttar Pradesh and Kashmir who will decide if the issue of Kashi and Mathura should be taken up,” said BJP MLA Atul BhatkhalkarMeanwhile, the NCP has planned a virtual meeting on the occasion of Pawar’s 81st birthday on Sunday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/sharad-pawar-accuses-bjp-of-rewriting-textbooks-101639233581971.html
11-12-2021||Mumbai||For first time since May 2020, Navi Mumbai Covid cases drop below 1,000||For the first time since May 2020, the number of cases in Navi Mumbai in November are less than 1,000 as the month saw 767 positive Covid cases. Even as the positive cases reported per month after the second wave was declining, on an average, more than 1,000 cases were being reported each month in Navi Mumbai. The highest was reported in April this year with 26,930 cases.In March 2020, when the pandemic started, the first month had 12 cases and increased to 218 in April and crossed 1,000 in May with 1,973 cases. The highest in 2020 was in August with 10,764 cases. In 2020, the total number of cases reported was 51,002.In 2021, in January, the cases started with 2,007 positive cases and had the highest in April with 26,930 cases that started declining from May, with a total of 5,618 cases.“The higher number of vaccination and also herd immunity played a role in the decline of the cases. Moreover, we have been doing targetted testing to find the maximum number of cases that has helped us in controlling the spread,” a medical officer from Navi Mumbai Municipal Corporation said.Till now, 1.09 lakh people in Navi Mumbai have tested positive since March 2020, of which 10,853 were below 18 years and 98,472 above 18. In Navi Mumbai, till now 12.02 lakh people have got their first jab, of which 8.59 lakh have received their second jab as well.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/for-first-time-since-may-2020-navi-mumbai-covid-cases-drop-below-1000-101639233223991.html
11-12-2021||Pune||Cloudy skies, fog keep mercury down in Pune city||PUNE Pune city has been witnessing cold weather due to drop in day temperature during the first ten days of December. The highest maximum temperature recorded during the day has been 29 degrees Celsius. Weather experts note that cloudy skies and fog have kept the day temperature low bringing chill to the city. As per the climatology of Pune city for December between 1951-1980, the daily maximum mean temperature should be around 29.6 degrees Celsius. However, till Saturday, the daily maximum mean temperature had been just 26.3 degrees Celsius, which was 3.3 degrees cooler. Speaking about the weather, Dr DS Pai, who heads the climate research and services at India Meteorological Department (IMD), Pune said that there was cloudy weather during the day as December started. “Due to this, the day temperature has not seen a rise. But the day temperature is around normal. The night temperature is also a few degrees more than normal. But in the next few days, the night temperature is likely to decrease owing to cooler winds from the northwest side of the country,” said Pai. As per the data furnished by IMD, the daily minimum mean temperature for December in Pune is around 12 degrees Celsius. But this year, till December 11, the daily minimum mean temperature has been 16.1 degrees Celsius which was four degrees warmer. Temperature may not decrease further, according to the weather department. Speaking about further drop in temperature, Anupam Kashyapi, head of weather forecasting department of IMD Pune said that a western disturbance (WD) is likely to affect Himalayas by December 13. “At the same time, strong winds from the Bay of Bengal may penetrate the state from December 12. It is likely to change into southerly winds and the cooler northern winds are likely to interact. From December 14, Konkan and Goa and central Maharashtra may receive isolated very light to light rainfall. From December 14 to December 17, chances of rainfall is likely in Marathwada,” said Kashyapi. He said that between December 12 and December 17, the weather across Pune may remain cloudy and there are chances of light rainfall. But during early morning hours, city may experience haze and visibility issues. “However, due to cloudy conditions, the night temperature is not likely to reduce any further,” said Kashyapi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/cloudy-skies-fog-keep-mercury-down-in-pune-city-101639232922145.html
11-12-2021||Chandigarh||One deputy CM from BSP if SAD-BSP alliance comes to power: Badal||Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) chief Sukhbir Singh Badal announced that if the SAD and Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) alliance comes to power, then one of the two deputy chief ministers will be from the BSP, news agency PTI reported.“One of the deputy chief ministers will be from the BSP (if we are voted to power),” said Badal after addressing a rally at Banga. Earlier, SAD said if these parties come to power, then a Scheduled Caste (SC) MLA and a Hindu MLA will be sworn in as deputy chief ministers. Both parties announced their coalition in June. The BSP will field candidates in 20 of the 117 legislative assembly seats in Punjab. The SAD will contest on the rest of the seats. The state will go into the polls next year.Former chief minister Amarinder Singh has floated his own Punjab Lok Congress which is in talks with Dhindsa faction (Shiromani Akali Dal Sanyukt) and the BJP, in a bid to challenge the Congress party which is in power and faced infightings and factionalism.The AAP has released two lists of candidates containing the names of 30 candidates. The AAP has promised ₹1,000 every month to all women if it is voted to power in Punjab as it tries to corner the Congress government over the sand mining mafia.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/one-deputy-cm-from-bsp-if-sad-bsp-alliance-comes-to-power-badal-101639227618978.html
11-12-2021||Mumbai||Omicron scare: 118 international passengers not traceable by Thane civic body||From among the 2004 international passengers who have arrived in Thane, 118 have not been traced till now. Thane Municipal Corporation (TMC) has shared the list of non-traceable passengers with the State government as it has received the passenger database from airport authorities.While the State’s focus is only on those traveling from countries of concern, TMC has mandatorily tested all international travellers on the seventh day after their arrival to India. According to TMC officials, the list of untraceable passengers exists because the travellers have provided international contact numbers or incomplete addresses. This makes it difficult to know their health conditions.“Many of the contact numbers are either switched off or out of coverage. In some cases, the address only includes Pin Code or name of the ward. None of these are helpful to trace the passengers. Moreover, we receive the list from the airport authority on the third day after these passengers have arrived in the city. This makes it difficult to keep a tab as many would have gone to other states or cities as they have come down only for a particular reason,” said a senior official from TMC.TMC has around 600 passengers who are due to be tested on the seventh day; 245 have tested negative.“We have prepared a list of 2,004 passengers. Among these, around 1,730 are from the countries of concern. Those arriving from at-risk countries are tested at the airport. We get a list of passengers whom we trace and test on the seventh day of their arrival. We also have a team that closely monitors their health up until the 14th day. Till now, all the RT-PCR reports have been negative for Covid,” said Dr Prasad Patil, medical officer, TMC.TMC is conducting an RT-PCR test on all passengers arriving within Thane city. However, as those coming from countries that are not at risk are not tested at the airport, they continue to show reluctance when TMC officials request for a test on the seventh day as they are not even under home quarantine.“We submit a separate list of untraceable passengers and also a regular update on the status of all passengers to the district and State officials,” added Patil.Meanwhile, two international travellers and three close contacts of another international traveller tested positive in Navi Mumbai for Covid out of the total 195 international travellers from high-risk countries tested.According to the protocols, the housing societies where they stay have been completely sealed by the corporation. Meanwhile, three close contacts of a high-risk traveller has also been found positive while the traveller himself was found to be negative.“When any case of high-risk traveller is found positive, we send it to genome sequencing for confirming if it is an Omicron variant. Unless a negative report comes, one should consider it to be a case of Omicron and take necessary precautions. There is no need to spread panic if an international traveller is found positive. Only following all Covid protocols is important. We have increased the vigilance of people gathering without masks and are also keeping a watch over marriage halls. Till now, we have fined a mall as well as a banquet hall of ₹50,000 fine for not following the Covid protocols,” Navi Mumbai municipal commissioner, Abhijit Bangar, said.(Inputs by Raina Shine)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/omicron-scare-118-international-passengers-not-traceable-by-thane-civic-body-101639231601827.html
11-12-2021||Mumbai||New study gives peak into Vengurla Archipelago’s ecosystem||Mumbai An ongoing study by the Salim Ali Centre for Ornithology and Natural History (SACON) -- funded by the state forest department’s Mangrove Foundation -- has given researchers key insights into the biodiversity of the Vengurla Archipelago in Sindhudurg district, known to harbour the largest congregation of Indian Swiftlets, a protected bird species endemic to India’s Western Ghats and Sri Lanka. Notably, researchers observed that these swiftlets and other birds are key to the survival of various cave-dwelling invertebrates in the area, as their droppings provide energy in the absence of light and vegetation.The Vengurla Archipelago comprises about 20 islets, roughly 10km from the coast, of which three islets are comparatively large, namely New Lighthouse Island, Old Lighthouse Island, and Burnt Island. The birds are found in the four caves between the New Lighthouse and Burnt Island. One of these caves, called Pakoli Ghal on Burnt Island, is where the Indian swiftlet nests and roosts in the thousands. Other species including rock pigeons, tawny pipits, dusky crag-martins and western reef egrets have also been seen here. In 2012, the Bombay Natural History Society (BNHS) had designated these rocks as an Important Bird Area (IBA), making it one of 467 such sites across the country.The swiftlet is particularly vulnerable as its nests (which are made up of hardened saliva) are used to cook a Chinese delicacy called bird’s nest soup. Vengurla has previously witnessed rampant poaching of swiftlet nests (prior to the species being brought under the purview of the Wildlife Protection Act) and between 2001-02, seven smugglers operating in the area were arrested. “Fortunately, during our study period, we have not found any indication of this activity continuing,” said Dr Shirish Manchi of SACON, who is leading the study and has spent two decades working on the conservation of the Edible Nest-Swiftlet (a related species) in the Andaman & Nicobar Islands.In an interim report submitted to the Mangrove Foundation in March this year, and which was shared with Hindustan Times this week, researchers noted that “a detailed study on flora and fauna on these islands has not been done... Most visits by researchers or naturalists to the Vengurla Rocks were for exploring the Avifauna on the islands and in caves.” SACON has attempted to document, for the first time, the various orders of cave-dwelling fauna and their relationship to these birds.“We conducted three repetitive, systematic surveys in the pre-monsoon season (December to February) in Pakoli Ghal on Burnt Island. We documented the presence of invertebrates from eleven different orders; (1) Diptera (flies, mosquitoes), (2) Orthoptera (crickets), (3) Lepidoptera (Moths and butterflies), (4) Araneae (spider), (5) Crustacea (Crabs), (6) Blattodea (Cockroach), (7) Coleoptera (Beetle), (8) Hymenoptera (ants), (9) Microlepidoptera (Micro-moths), (10) Squamata (Gecko) and (11) Scolopendromorpha (Centipedes),” they wrote, adding that work is ongoing to identify these taxa at a species level.“Since March 2021, in the post-monsoon season, we may have encountered even more orders of invertebrates, which will be detailed in a final report early next year. Since the caves are very remote and do not have a lot of light in them, the survival of these invertebrates depends on the birds, who defecate in the caves and provide an important source of energy,” Manchi explained. Guano contains high amounts of nutrients like nitrate and ammonium, and over time accumulates to form a substrate on the rocky surfaces of the cave.For example, during the study, researchers observed that plaster bagworms and beetle larvae feeding on and living in swiftlet droppings. “Indian Swiftlets inside the cave play an essential role in providing shelter and unlimited food supply for various organisms in caves. Hence, the presence of a diversity of species orders is apparent,” the researchers have noted.Rock pigeons, they found, were also bringing in vegetative nest-building material, which falls on the cave floor and is then used as an energy source by the invertebrates. “Further studies will be required to understand the contribution of each bird to the cave ecosystem,” the interim report says.These findings are significant because biospeleology (i.e. a branch of biology dealing with the study of ‘troglofauna’, or cave-dwelling organisms) is in a very nascent stage in India. “With the exception of a few caves of states of Meghalaya, Chhattisgarh, Andhra Pradesh, and the Andaman Islands, we do not have systematic cave faunal studies in the country despite there being a lot of potential for them,” Manchi added.This study will also form the basis for a broader project by SACON – funded by the union environment ministry – on studying the biology, ecology and conversation value of Indian Swiftlets in Maharashtra. Commissioned in January 2020, that study has been delayed on account of the pandemic. “We are also hoping to put together a comprehensive document on cave fauna in the Konkan, from Palghar in the north to Sindhudurg in the south, which has never been done before. But that will have to be done as a separate exercise,” Manchi added.Dr Manas Manjrekar, deputy director (research) at the Mangrove Foundation, explained that the forest department may also consider initiating ecotourism activities in the area. “But before we can take any decision on that, we need to have some basic understanding of how the ecosystem works. The tourism part is secondary as of now,” he said.Bhau Katdare, the founder of NGO Sahyadri Nisarga Mitra, which first detected the poaching of swiftlet nests in Vengurla some 20 years ago, said, “We knew these islands were used as a breeding and nesting area for a number of coastal birds, including swiftlets. There is even a mention in the Maharashtra State Gazzeteer of the official sale of these nests. When we first visited the island in 2000 we saw that there were long ladders and bamboo scaffolds which had been set up specifically for the purpose of obtaining the nests from high areas in the caves, but thanks to ours and the forest department’s efforts this is no longer a practice there and we have seen the swiftlet population double. But as for the caves themselves very little is known about them.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/new-study-gives-peak-into-vengurla-archipelago-s-ecosystem-101639231483215.html
11-12-2021||Gurugram||Gurugram: 26 detained for protesting against WTE plant in Bandhwari landfill||Police detained 26 people from Gurugram Sector 14 on Friday afternoon for protesting against the foundation stone laying ceremony of the waste to energy (WTE) plant in Bandhwari landfill.They were detained nearly one hour before Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar was scheduled to lay the foundation stone for the Bandhwari WTE and the new Municipal Corporation of Gurugram (MCG) office opposite to Vyapar Sadan at 3pm on Friday.People mostly affiliated with the Aravalli Bachao citizens group, and other Gurugram residents gathered at Sector 14 near Vyapar Sadan around 1.30pm and observed a silent protest by holding posters and banners against the WTE project.Deepak Kumar, 22, who is a resident of Sector 44, allegedly suffered minor injuries after he was “manhandled by police” during the incident. “Around 2pm, a few police officers in a PCR vehicle approached the protesters and asked us to vacate the area. We agreed to this after a brief discussion and were about to leave the site, but... all of a sudden, a team of police officers, including female constables, started detaining the protesters. They dragged us inside a police bus. During a scuffle following this, a few police officers punched me on my face and kicked me on my stomach,” said Deepak.Jyoti Raghavan, a protester, said, “The placement of a WTE plant in the forest land amid a critical water recharging zone for the National Capital Region (NCR) defies all logic. WTE plants have failed across the country, and most of these projects have already closed down. WTE plants only add to the ongoing pollution crisis instead of providing a solution... We were silently protesting against the project but were detained without any reason.”According to the protesters, they were kept at the women’s police station in Palam Vihar under preventive custody for almost three hours, and were released around 5.30pm — only after CM Khattar’s programme was over.Subhash Boken, spokesperson, Gurugram police, said that 26 protesters were taken to the local police station. “They (the protesters) were taken into preventive custody to maintain law and order situation in the city,” Boken said.Earlier in the day, another group of nearly 30 residents and environmentalists from Gurugram and Faridabad also organised a protest against the WTE project outside the Bandhwari landfill between 11am and 12.30pm. “Our protest was carried out peacefully, in the presence of police personnel. There were no disruptions... It was not affiliated to any political party... We simply raised slogans against the WTE project, demanding the Haryana government to reconsider its move considering the environmental implications arising from it,” said Vaishali Rana, a Gurugram-based environmentalist and a protester.CM Khattar calls it ‘waste to wealth’ approachMeanwhile, Khattar said during his Friday address that “it was an important day for Gurugram and Faridabad”.“The WTE plant is being set up for proper disposal of waste from both the cities — Gurugram and Faridabad. Cleanliness is the ornament of life, and is also necessary for the ease of living. We are moving towards a ‘waste to wealth’ approach with this new technology. Haryana’s first plant WTE project, to generate electricity from waste, has already started in Sonipat, and this new WTE plant in Gurugram will generate around 600,000 units of electricity per day and ensure that the waste in the area is being disposed of properly,” said Khattar. He also talked about further increasing the capacity of the WTE plant.Pataudi Chowk: 3 AAP office bearers detainedOn Friday, three Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) office bearers were also allegedly detained at the Pataudi Chowk police post for more than four hours, according to a release issued by the party.Dr Sarika Verma, one of three detained office bearers, said that “AAP had not planned any protest against the WTE project or came up with any message on disrupting the CM’s programmes on Friday”, but the trio was detained anyway.However, assistant sub-inspector Dhuli Chand, in-charge of Pataudi Chowk police post, said, “We received a tip that the AAP office bearers concerned would swirl black flags at the Bandhwari landfill, and try to disrupt the Haryana CM’s programmes on Friday. So, we called the three AAP office bearers to the police post for holding a discussion on the matter. There was no detainment as such.”
11-12-2021||Kolkata||Ahead of Kolkata civic polls, TMC releases manifesto; BJP takes a swipe at it||With Kolkata, frequently bearing the brunt of cyclones and erratic and extremely heavy spells of rain triggered by climate change and global warming, the ruling Trinamool Congress in West Bengal in its manifesto for the upcoming Kolkata Municipal Corporation elections has promised to revamp the city’s drainage pattern in the next five years to keep the city free from water logging during such situations.The manifesto released on Saturday, just a week ahead of the city’ civic polls scheduled on December 19, promises to come up with a water logging action plan for the city, keep the city’s drains free from any blockage and revamp the city’s network of canals, including the Adi Ganga, for better drainage of storm water. “To combat increased water logging due to change in pattern of rainfall, experts from reputed institutes will be consulted to find sustainable and scientific solutions. Existing pumping stations and sewer lines will be upgraded along with procurement of 200 pumps,” the manifesto said. At least 6,811 people have been killed in India between 2018 and 2021 (till March) due to hydro-meteorological disasters such as heavy rain, lightning, flood and cyclones among others till March this year, and West Bengal with at least 964 such deaths topped the list, revealing the state’s vulnerability to climate change. Fourteen people were killed in West Bengal and Odisha when Cyclone Yaas had hit this year in May, in 2020 Cyclone Amphan had killed 98 people in West Bengal alone. Kolkata was badly hit with large parts of the city inundated and power cuts for several days. “The Adi Ganga Canal will be revamped with regular dredging and prevention of solid waste dumping. Water outlets from the city pockets to the canal for better drainage of storm water would be facilitated,” the manifesto said. With cases of vector borne diseases like malaria and dengue taking its toll on Kolkata and its outskirts, the manifesto promises to set up at least 30 dengue detection centres. The World Health Organization in a bulletin last year had warned that by 2100 it is estimated that average global temperatures will have risen by 1 – 3.5 degrees Celsius, increasing the likelihood of many vector-borne diseases in new areas. Kolkata recorded the highest rise in surface air temperature within the studied cities and regions across the world in 1950-2018, according to latest report of the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC). “Our analysis of IMD data of a century says that the number of depressions intensifying into cyclones has dropped in the Bay of Bengal. But when a cyclone develops its intensity is very high. Similarly, the overall rainfall in the monsoon season has increased but the number of rainy days has dropped resulting in intense spells. The latest IPCC report has already pointed out that Kolkata recorded the highest rise in surface air temperature within the studied cities and regions across the world in 1950-2018. Except for a desert West Bengal has everything from mountains to sea and river floodplains and so it is also vulnerable to the effects of climate change. What aggravates the situation is that while on the one hand alteration of nature is going on in an unbridled way, we also lack mitigation and preparedness,” said Tuhin Ghosh, director of School of Oceanographic Studies at Jadavpur University in Kolkata. This apart the manifesto named ‘10 Diganta’ (10 horizons) also promises an underground garbage bin container system, annual cultural festivals, beautification of river ghats, toilet for women in every ward and ward-level planning committee among others. The BJP, which released its manifesto earlier this week, took a jibe at the TMC saying that except for making promises the TMC has done little for the city and the state. “The party is in power for 10 years but the civic body has failed. People have seen this and will take an informed decision. The TMC believes in politics of force and the KMC poll is the latest example. The elections were announced when the court was hearing the matter,” said Samik Bhattacharya. Earlier in the day, BJP’s national vice president Dilip Ghosh had attacked the TMC saying that the party was trying to follow in the footsteps of the BJP. “I don’t know what Ghosh and other BJP leaders are saying. It is good that they have come up with a manifesto. But they won’t be able to win a single seat,” said Aroop Biswas, state minister and senior TMC leader.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/ahead-of-kolkata-civic-polls-tmc-releases-manifesto-bjp-takes-a-swipe-at-it-101639230941792.html
11-12-2021||Mumbai||EOW books developer for delay in handing over flats||Mumbai The Economic Offenses Wing (EOW) of the Mumbai police registered a first information report (FIR) against three directors of Nirmal Lyfestyle Ltd. for allegedly delaying possession of ready flats to 54 buyers. The complainants have claimed that the developer took money from them in 2010-11 for purchasing flats in a Mulund (west) project, but the flats have not been delivered yet. The housing-2 unit of EOW has on Tuesday registered the FIR Nirmal Lyfestyle directors Dharmesh Jain, Rajeev Jain, Puja Jain and others. The FIR is based on March 2021 complaint lodged by Umesh Kakule, president of Zircon Flat Owners Welfare Association, on behalf of the buyers, who have booked flats in the 39-storied “Zircon” on LBS Road at Mulund (West). Kakule has booked a 911-square-feet flat in the proposed high-rise in January 2010 and has paid ₹88.89 lakh to the developer between August 2009 and February 2016. When the developer failed to deliver the flat on the promised deadline of June 2013, when they enquired with the developer they were told that the project got delayed for want of commencement certificate and permission from the BMC for revised plans. According to the complainants, the construction work resumed later and till 2019, 45 floors were constructed and though all 301 flats in the high-rise are sold, the developer hasn’t yet secured the occupancy certificate. They said some interior work, electric work and water supply work was still incomplete. The complainant had also moved to MahaRERA against the developer in April 2019. The RERA authority has given the extension for completion of the project, and also directed it to pay a monthly rent to the flat buyers, which the developer eventually paid. Despite this, the developer failed to complete the entire work. EOW housing unit-2 senior police inspector Ramchandra Lotlikar said the case has been just registered and the investigation is on. The complainant did not respond to phone calls and messages. When contacted Dharmesh Jain of Nirmal Lyfestyle said the project is 95% complete and expressed hope that he would soon resolve the matter with flat buyers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/eow-books-developer-for-delay-in-handing-over-flats-101639229382034.html
11-12-2021||Pune||FIR against two bank officials for allegedly duping man of ₹19 lakh||PUNE The Kondhwa police have registered a case against two officers of a prominent private sector bank on charges of allegedly duping a man of ₹19 lakh by forging his signature and investing his fixed deposits into a policy without his consent.Based on the complaint from the victim’s 24-year-old son, a first information report (FIR) has been registered at the Kondhwa police station against bank employees identified as Anu Pande and Shashikant Prasad.According to police, the complainant’s father retired from a private company in 2019. He has an account in the Kondhwa branch of the bank. When he had gone to update the passbook in the bank, the accused suggested he invest ( ₹19.8 lakh) in mutual funds and a policy.Investigating officials stated that the accused allegedly misrepresented facts and forged his signature for the policy documents.Police have booked the accused persons for offences under sections 420 (cheating), 468 (forgery for purpose of cheating), 471 (use genuine as forged documents or electronic record) and 34 (common intention) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC). Further investigation is underway.Kondhwa police station incharge Sardar Patil said, “Preliminary investigation has revealed that the accused forged the document and cheated the customer which is a criminal offence carried out with common intention. Further investigation is on to find out if they are involved in more such cases.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/fir-against-two-bank-officials-for-allegedly-duping-man-of-rs-19-lakh-101639227701527.html
11-12-2021||Mumbai||Fine for driving under influence of alcohol to go up from Rs2,000 to Rs10,000||Driving under the influence of alcohol will cost Thanekars dearer this Christmas and New Year with increased fines for the offence being made applicable in the city from next week. The fine amount of ₹2,000 will be increased to ₹10,000 as per the new order.In 2019, the central government had made several amendments to the Motor Vehicles Act, according to which the fines for almost all violations were increased by a significant degree. Governments of various states were to implement these amendments as per their discretion. However, the then Maharashtra government had put the implementation of these amendments on hold.In January this year, the current State Transport Minister, Anil Parab, had said that the amendments would be implemented in Maharashtra soon, and on December 1, the State government had issued an order increasing the fine for drunk driving.After the order was issued, the Thane Traffic Police started the process of integrating the new fine amount in their anti drink-and-drive campaigns.“As we use e-challan machines instead of paper receipt books to issue challans, we need to recalibrate our machines to reflect the new fines. This process is currently under way and is expected to be complete within a few days. By next week, the increased fine of ₹10,000 will be imposed on those who are found driving under the influence of alcohol,” DCP Balasaheb Patil, Thane Traffic Police, said.The Thane Traffic Police will soon be finalising details of this year’s anti drink-and-drive measures, officials said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/fine-for-driving-under-influence-of-alcohol-to-go-up-from-rs2-000-to-rs10000-101639227582944.html
11-12-2021||Mumbai||Greens raise concern over large-scale landfill at Savarkhar wetland in Uran||Environmentalists have raised an alarm over a fresh massive destruction of the migratory birds destination, the Savarkhar wetland in Uran, where they claim a large-scale landfill is in progress.“Scores of truckloads of earth and debris are being deposited on the 15-hectare water body and it is a serious situation,” said Dilip Koli of traditional fishing community, Paaramparik Machimar Bachao Kruti Samiti.NatConnect Foundation and Shri Ekvira Sai Pratishtan have sent a mail to the CM, the environment department and the High Court-appointed Mangrove and Wetland committees. They have also sent the GPS photographs and video of the landfill. There has been landfill going on in the area for some time, but the authorities have been in a denial mode, said BN Kumar, director of NatConnect Foundation.“The burial of Uran wetlands has disturbed the fragile ecological balance here as the migratory and local birds are forced to struggle for landing places for roosting and nesting. In fact, the Karal Gram Panchayat had, in July, appealed to Uran Tehsildar to look into the landfill at Savarkhar that is causing intermittent floods in the village, said Nandkumar Pawar, head of Shri Ekvira Aai Pratishtan.Uran Tehsildar, Bhausaheb Andhare, was not available for comment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/greens-raise-concern-over-large-scale-landfill-at-savarkhar-wetland-in-uran-101639225543040.html
11-12-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab Congress infighting: Sidhu backs Sultanpur Lodhi MLA Cheema in battle with Rana Gurjit||Amritsar: Punjab Congress president Navjot Singh Sidhu on Saturday announced support for Sultanpur Lodhi MLA Navtej Singh Cheema in his ongoing feud with neighbouring MLA and state technical education and employment generation minister Rana Gurjit Singh. The tussle between the minister and the MLA began when Rana Gurjit’s son Rana Inder Partap Singh began canvassing in Sultanpur Lodhi constituency to stake claim for the Congress ticket. He claims that Cheema is unpopular and there has been corruption in the constituency. Before concluding his speech at the rally organised by Youth Congress leader Satinder Singh Chhajjalwaddi, the son of former three-time Congress MLA Ranjit Singh Chhajjalwaddi, at Rayya in Baba Bakala constituency, Sidhu asked Cheema to come on stage. Then he said, “Many have tried to root out Navtej. I will not let that happen.” Cheema was among the six Congress MLAs who wrote to Sidhu against the induction of Rana Gurjit in the state cabinet in September. Baba Bakala MLA Santokh Singh Bhalaipur stayed away from the rally organised by his rival Chajjalwaddi. Bhalaipur had recently supported then chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh in the bitter tussle with Sidhu. Khadoor Sahib MP Jasbir Singh Dimpa, whose village also falls in this constituency, also extended support to Chajjalwaddi. Punjab Congress working president Sukhwinder Singh Danny Bandala and Qadian MLA Fateh Jung Singh Bajwa were also present.
11-12-2021||Mumbai||Nawab Malik says defamation of Maha govt needs to stop, hits out at ED & BJP's Somaiya||Maharashtra cabinet minister Nawab Malik on Saturday said the Enforcement Directorate (ED) and Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader Kirit Somaiya were indulging in a whisper campaign against him. He said a first information report (FIR) against a BJP leader next week and he would be arrested.Stating that defamation of the Maharashtra government by the ED needs to stop, the senior Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) leader said agency officers keep telling the media that they will raid his house.“Somaiya has levelled allegations of fraud against me in a Waqf Board land case. Today, he said the ED will visit my house in the matter. Instead of this whispering campaign, they can directly ask me to appear, I will do so,” he was quoted as saying by news agency ANI.ED officers have been telling the media that they will raid my house. Today Kirit Somaiya said ED will visit my house in Waqf board land matter...Instead of this whispering campaign, they can directly ask me to appear, I will do so: Maharashtra Minister Nawab Malik pic.twitter.com/5q3xSnDplc“I want to apprise him (Somaiya) that an FIR will be lodged against a BJP leader next week and he will be arrested,” he added.On Friday, Malik said some “government guests” were soon going to pay him a visit. “Friends, I have heard that government guests will come to my home today or tomorrow, I welcome them,” the NCP leader tweeted in Hindi.Also read | Nawab Malik apologises to HC for violating promise not to attack Wankhede familyGetting scared was akin to dying, he said, adding “…we don't have to feel scared, we have to fight.” “Gandhi ladhe the goron se, hum ladhenge choron se (Mahatma Gandhi had fought against the British, we will fight against thieves,” he wrote further.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/nawab-malik-says-defamation-of-maha-govt-needs-to-stop-hits-out-at-ed-somaiya-101639224019488.html
11-12-2021||Other||8 JMB terrorists convicted in Bodh Gaya blast case||The special National Investigation Agency (NIA) court, Patna, on Friday convicted eight out of nine terrorists of Jamat-ul-Mujahideen Bangladesh (JMB) for their role in the IED explosion in Bodh Gaya in 2018 when Tibetan spiritual leader, the Dalai Lama, along with several Buddhist pilgrims, was camping in the town to participate in the month-long Kalachakra puja. The special NIA court of additional district and session judge-XV Gurwinder Singh Malhotra has fixed December 17 to pronounce the quantum of sentence. Those who were pronounced guilty were identified as—Arif Hussain, Dilwar Hossain, Adbul Karim, Mustafizur Rahman alias Shaheen (WB), Jahidul Islam alias Kaisar (Bangladesh national), Mohammad Paigambar Sheikh, Ahmad Ali alias Kalu, Nur Alam Nomani and Mohammad Adil Sheikh under Sections 121, 121A, 123 of the Indian Penal Code (IPC), Explosive Substances Act and Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act. According to the special public prosecutor (NIA) Lallan Prasad Sinha, eight of the nine accused had filed a joint petition before the special court on October 22 confessing their crime for hatching conspiracy and executing blast, which was accepted by the court. Mohammad Jahidul Islam has not filed any petition confessing his crime. Sinha told HT that all the accused earlier lodged in West Bengal were produced before the court on October 22 when the special court had issued a production warrant against the accused on September 22, 2021, and asked the competent authority to execute the order. All the accused persons have been chargesheeted for their involvement in the terrorist act of planting three IEDs in and around the Bodh Gaya temple complex on January 19, 2018. The case was initially registered by the Gaya police following information that some suspicious objects were lying near the Kalchakra Maidan, Bodh Gaya under a generator set. The police secured the site and during the search of the whole premises, two more live IEDs were recovered. Later on, the case was taken over by the NIA. Investigation revealed accused Jahidul Islam, with the help of other co-accused, made three IEDs and two hand grenades. The IEDs were planted by Adil Sheikh, Dilwar Hossain and Arif Hussain in the premises of Bodh Gaya temple complex to cause loss to public life and property during the presence of the Dalai Lama and also during the visit of Bihar Governor at Bodh Gaya. All the nine accused were convicted in Burdwan and Banglore blast cases. 
11-12-2021||Mumbai||Can’t compel spouse to continue accord for divorce by mutual consent: HC||Mumbai Aurangabad bench of the Bombay high court (HC) on Friday upheld a 2017 order of the family court at Aurangabad, allowing a Mumbai-based medical practitioner to withdraw his consent for converting his divorce petition into a joint plea for divorce by mutual consent. The estranged husband had agreed to consent terms not just before the counsellor, but also before the family court, but a single-judge bench of Justice Mangesh Patil said that he cannot be compelled to continue his consent and go ahead for divorce by mutual consent if he does not wish to do so even after agreeing with the consent terms. The parties tied the knot in April 2012, but due to matrimonial discord, they started residing separately from March 2013. Three years later, the doctor instituted a divorce petition on the ground of desertion. But, he agreed to convert his petition into a joint plea for divorce by mutual consent, when the spouses were referred to the family court counsellor in June 2017, as part of the procedure followed in divorce proceedings. The couple then finalised terms of settlement and filed and signed consent terms before the counsellor and also admitted signing of consent terms even before the family court. However, later the 44-year-old doctor filed an application before the family court stating that under the consent terms, he had agreed to pay ₹1.11 crore to his estranged wife as permanent alimony and he had paid her an amount of Rs. 25 lakh, but it was difficult for him to pay the balance amount and on that ground sought to withdraw his consent. The family court allowed him to withdraw the consent for mutual divorce, prompting his 36-year-old wife to approach the high court, where she contended that the terms and conditions were settled before the marriage counsellor and duly presented before the Family Court and for all practical purposes the petition thereafter ought to have been proceeded under Section 13-B of the Hindu Marriage Act for grant of mutual consent. She also contended that the terms of settlement agreed before the marriage counsellor have sanctity and finality in view of Rule 31 of the Family Courts (Maharashtra) Rules, 1987, which lays down the procedure for grant of divorce by mutual consent when parties settle the matter before a marriage counsellor and requires the family court to grant a decree of divorce in terms of the agreed terms. Justice Mangesh Patil, however, rejected the argument. The single-judge bench noted that the Supreme Court has held that mutual consent is required not only at the time of filing the joint plea, but also on the date on which the family court passes the divorce order. “In view of such emphatic view of the Supreme Court, the respondent (husband) cannot be compelled to go ahead and seek divorce by mutual consent, it does not wish to do so,” said HC and dismissed the woman’s petition.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/cant-compel-spouse-to-continue-accord-for-divorce-by-mutual-consent-hc-101639223801780.html
11-12-2021||Mumbai||3 arrested in Panvel for smuggling sand boa from Pune||Three persons were arrested by the Navi Mumbai crime branch (unit 3) in the early hours of Friday for allegedly smuggling a sand boa from Pune and selling it in Panvel.According to the police, Arbaz Shaikh, 24, Sagar Shinde, 22, both residents of Pune and Shasha Ali Pathan, 22, of Raigad, illegally caught the reptile in a forest in Pune and took it to Panvel to sell on Thursday night.Shatrughna Mali, senior inspector of crime branch, said, “We received information that a few people had entered the city with an endangered animal and accordingly deployed our officials at different places in plain clothes. Within a few hours, one of our teams spotted three suspicious-looking people in Panvel and intercepted them. One of them carried a black bag with him. Our team checked the bag and found a sand boa and an electronic weighing machine inside it. They arrested them on the spot.”The police booked the accused under Sections 420 and 511 of the IPC and Sections 51 and 52 of the Wild Life Protection Act, 1972. They later handed over the sand boa to the forest department after taking permission from the court.“In the past, we came across such cases wherein criminals sold sand boa to people for anything between ₹1Cr and ₹2Cr. Some people believe that a person becomes wealthy if he keeps a sand boa at home and hence such criminals keep smuggling it to sell in the city,” he said.
11-12-2021||Pune||NDA pays homage to General Bipin Rawat, other fallen alumni||PUNE A wreath-laying ceremony was organised at the “Hut of Remembrance” at National Defence Academy (NDA) on Saturday in memory of General Bipin Rawat, chief of defence staff; Brigadier Lakhbinder Singh Lidder, and Wing Commander Prithvi Singh Chauhan, who lost their lives during a helicopter crash in Coonoor district of Tamil Nadu on December 8, 2021.Air Marshal Sanjeev Kapoor, Commandant, NDA, paid homage to the brave hearts in a solemn ceremony on behalf of the NDA fraternity. All key officials of the academy were present to pay their last respects.General Bipin Rawat, was an alumnus of the 53rd NDA Course, Charlie Squadron and has served the nation as the 27th chief of the army staff rose to become the first chief of defence staff in January 2020. The ‘Hut of Remembrance’ book read that “Rarely a general goes with his boots on. General Rawat etched his name in the Hut of Remembrance at NDA as the senior-most soldier to die in the line of duty. That’s his glory.”Brigadier Lakhbinder Singh Lidder was an alumnus of the 77th NDA Course, India Squadron. The officer was approved for the next rank of major general and was due to take over a division. The officer was carrying out the duties of the defence assistant to the chief of defence staff.Wing Commander Prithvi Singh Chauhan was an alumnus of the 100th NDA Course, Foxtrot Squadron. He was Commanding Officer of the 109 Helicopter Unit and was flying the MI-17 helicopter of the chief of defence staff during the ill-fated accident.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/nda-pays-homage-to-general-bipin-rawat-other-fallen-alumni-101639223321462.html
11-12-2021||Mumbai||Navi Mumbai Municipal Corporation announces challenge to improve waste management in city||The Navi Mumbai Municipal Corporation (NMMC) has announced Navi Mumbai’s Swachh Innovative Technology challenge based on the union government’s Swachh Technology Challenge under Swachh Bharat Mission.Navi Mumbai residents, students, educational institutions, NGOs, citizen associations, start-ups, IT and non-IT companies can participate with their innovative concepts.To participate in the challenge, residents should present innovative technical projects related to garbage segregation, collection, disposal, fertilizer generation, zero garbage, recycling of garbage, plastic garbage management, improving solid waste management system and ideas to increase people’s participation.NMMC commissioner, Abhijit Bangar, said, “Through this challenge, we want innovative ideas to improve the waste management process in the city using technology and to use these ideas at the community, ward and city levels. Residents and organisations should present concepts that will be appreciated at the national level.”The top three projects in the city will be sent for the state-level challenge from where the top concepts will be sent for the national competition.Bangar added “The innovative idea, the positive change it will bring in the present process, the practicality of implementation, feasibility of the project, its cost-and-use effectiveness, availability of material to implement the concept will be considered while judging the concept.”Residents should fill in their details online on shorturl.at/ijuHO and upload the proposed technical project on cleanliness along with it. It should include photographs, videos, PPT – maximum of five files of 1MB each. The challenge is open from December 15 to 31.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/navi-mumbai-municipal-corporation-announces-challenge-to-improve-waste-management-in-city-101639222361332.html
11-12-2021||Mumbai||One killed, one hurt in accident on Mumbai-Pune Expressway||A 49-year-old driver died after his pick-up van rammed into the railings of Mumbai-Pune Expressway and then toppled on the road in the early hours of Saturday, officials said.The cleaner of the van also suffered injuries in the accident and he is now recuperating in a hospital.According to the police, the van was transporting pork from Pune to Mumbai.As the van was crossing the Borghat area near Khopoli (in Raigad district) around 2.30 am, the driver, Sachin Shinde somehow lost control of the vehicle and it crashed into the metal railings along the road. Shinde then tried to take the van back to the road, but the vehicle lost balance and toppled on the road.“Shinde suffered severe injuries on different parts of his body in the accident and was taken to a nearby hospital by a few residents but he succumbed there after some time. He was a resident of Pune. The cleaner, who was also injured, is still in the hospital. According to the doctors, he is now stable and will be discharged soon,” said a police officer from Khopoli police station.The police have registered a case under sections 304a, 279, 337, 338 of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and sections 184 of the Motor Vehicle (MV) Act against Shinde. 
11-12-2021||Mumbai||Road in Kalyan littered as garbage collecting vehicle breaks down, lies unattended||The road outside Vitthalwadi railway station has garbage littered all over as the garbage-collecting vehicle has broken down and is lying unattended for several days. Moreover, the vehicle is filled with garbage that has scattered and littered the road.“This road right outside the station is filled with garbage most days. The waste is not collected sometimes for several days and it stinks. There are several residential buildings nearby,” said Ajay Singh, 38, a resident of Vitthalwadi, Kalyan (E).Earlier, the residents living in the area had complained to the ward office about the area turning into a dumping yard.“The garbage collecting vehicles are mostly parked on the road and are filled with garbage. This makes the entire area look dirty,” said Sanjeevni Dubey, 39, another resident who uses the road to reach the station.Deputy commissioner of KDMC, Ramdas Kokre, said,” We will look into this matter and take the necessary steps.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/road-in-kalyan-littered-as-garbage-collecting-vehicle-breaks-down-lies-unattended-101639220741043.html
11-12-2021||Pune||Bits’n’bytes: Know about business events in Pune||MCCIA invites applications for Youth Fellowship Programme The Mahratta Chamber of Commerce, Industries and Agriculture (MCCIA) has invited applications for the MCCIA Youth Fellowship Programme which provides a unique opportunity to young graduates and post graduates to be associated with the chamber and gain enriching work experience for a year. With this initiative, MCCIA aims at offering the youth fellows an interesting opportunity to be an integral part of dynamic teams and work on a variety of projects with the chamber. Selected participants will get hands-on experience across more than 16 industry verticals including International Trade, General Administration, Corporate Communications, Agriculture and Food Processing, Data Analytics. The MCCIA Fellows will get opportunities to meet and interact with executives of companies and policymakers from Pune and beyond and also get a chance to hone their industry skills in the epicentre of a network with over 3000 companies. Applications are invited from graduates and postgraduates from any field who wish to gain industry exposure and become leaders of tomorrow. Interested candidates can visit the MCCIA website www.mcciapune.com for more information and can also follow the details on our social media handles. The applicants may apply through the link: https://forms.gle/btWVFzfHgnB3ENdT7 by December 15 2021. Freight tech start-up WayFr raises Rs3 crore in seed round 2am VC along with Relentless Ventures and other angel investors such as Dhruvil Sanghvi (LogiNext), Pravin Gandhi (RedBus, Printo), Ambarish Jaipuria (Cosmo Ferrites) and Kishore Ganji (Astir Ventures) have collectively invested Rs3 crore in WayFr, a futuristic SaaS platform providing end-to-end order management and financing for supply chain stakeholders like shippers and truckers. Founded in March 2021, WayFr Technologies Private Limited is the brainchild of Poorna Reddy and Abhiram Deshpande. WayFr will leverage the freshly infused capital to expand its sales force in India targeting US clients. The brand had earlier raised Rs25 lakh from 100X.VC earlier this year in July. Ninad Karpe, Partner at 100X.VC, said, “The best part about being in the contemporary entrepreneurial ecosystem is that we get to review incredible ideas, potential, and approaches of innumerable young and dynamic start-ups. It is fairly challenging to pick the one with the most perspectives, and WayFr definitely fits this criterion.” “The pandemic has accelerated the global digital transformation process, we are confident that our carefully designed mobile application will be able to assist millions of shippers and truckers across the globe,” added Reddy, founder of WayFr. Exponent Energy secures $5Mn in a pre-series A round of funding Exponent Energy, a technology startup simplifying energy for EVs, announced that it has secured $5 million in a pre-series A round of funding. Existing investor, YourNest VC led the fresh round of funding; 3one4 Capital and AdvantEdge VC doubled down on their earlier investment as the new round witnessed the participation of Motherson Group, a global supplier of automotive components. Arun Vinayak, co-founder & CEO Exponent Energy said, “Given the demand witnessed for our rapid charging technology in the logistics space, we prioritized closing the Pre-Series A to enter the market by early 2022.” The company will use the funds raised to begin commercial operations and scale it across multiple cities starting with Bengaluru from early 2022; hire across product and engineering teams to ensure their products enter production, build out a deployment team for smooth operations and double down on its software products. Deep-science tech startup Uravu Labs raises pre-seed funding Water-tech startup Uravu Labs announced raising a pre-seed round of funding led by Speciale Invest, for building a new kind of 100 per cent renewable water infrastructure. The company also saw participation from angels and investors, Peter Yolles (EchoRiver Capital, US), Soren Schroder (US), Shigeru Sumimoto (Conselux Corporation, Japan), and Tomoki Kaneko (Kaneko Cord, Japan) in this round. The new infusion of capital will be utilized to bolster the technology, strengthen the patent portfolio, scale operations, and accelerate opportunities for deploying field pilots. Incepted in 2019 by Pardeep Garg, Swapnil Shrivastav, Venkatesh R, and Govinda Balaji, Uravu Labs is dedicated to building a new type of atmospheric water generator that is 100 per cent renewable. Garg said, “Today, many sectors are in the midst of a renewable revolution. For example, solar PV and wind help us go renewable in the electricity sector but we do not see any such option in the water sector. Uravu is bridging this gap by bringing a novel 100 per cent renewable water technology option to the market.” Microsoft launches Azure Availability Zones in its Central India data center region Microsoft India announced the launch of Availability Zones in its Central India data centre region, providing additional resilience options for customers’ cloud applications. The new Azure Availability Zones in Pune ensures uptime of up to 99.99 per cent, empowering Microsoft customers in India to spread their infrastructure and applications across the data centres’ locations, increasing security and accessibility. Rajiv Sodhi, chief operating officer, Microsoft India, said, “We are continually upgrading the infrastructure in India to provide support for customers building and operating applications and workloads. From facilitating architectures for modern cloud applications, to meeting data residency requirements, the new Azure Availability Zones in Central India will bring resilience to businesses, as they accelerate digital transformation.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/bitsnbytes-know-about-business-events-in-pune-101639220500992.html
11-12-2021||Pune||Startup Mantra: Aiding hotel industry tide over the pandemic||The most affected industry due to the Covid-19 pandemic is undoubtedly the restaurant and hotel industry. As different cities and geographies across the world reopened gradually over the last two years, there are many restaurants and hotels grappling to survive, reduce operational expenses and attract customers. A 27-year-old from Pimpri-Chinchwad, Rahil Shaikh, is helping this industry unlock with technological support through a restaurant management platform, TMBill. This platform is a cloud-based, end-to-end technology solution for restaurants, bars, cafes, Quick Service Restaurants (QSR), ice-cream shops, bakeries and cake shops. In the beginning… A native of Shrirampur in Ahmednagar district, Shaikh completed his Computer Science engineering course from the DY Patil College in 2014. After his degree, Shaikh had offers from multinationals, however, he chose entrepreneurship. Says Shaikh, “I am a farmer’s son and my parents wanted me and my brothers to complete our higher education. My elder brother is a Class 1 officer while another is also a software professional and runs his own institute. My elder brother supported me during my engineering studies. I was passionate about entrepreneurship and fascinated with the start-up world. Hence, I did not take up any job offer and instead chose to start my own website and mobile application development company ‘TechMainstay Software’.” “Without any prior experience, I miserably failed at my attempt and as they say, ‘burned’ through the startup journey of the initial six months. I struggled a lot, but could not get a single client. After going through some good and bad experiences, I managed to get my first client at the end of 2014 and got a cheque of ₹8,000. It was an amazing feeling,” recalls Shaikh. Introspecting another failure In 2015, Shaikh was introduced to the concept of cloud kitchen. Inspired by this model, Shaikh and his team then started their own cloud kitchen operations. “We got a good response and soon expanded to three locations. After this expansion, we realised that we needed software to manage operations efficiently. We were told that a software was available for restaurants and hotels, but it was priced at around Rs90,000. We could not manage the cash flow, inventory, stock, billing and other expenses. Despite being an IT guy, we chose the manual way of operations and as a result we again failed miserably in the cloud kitchen business,” Shaikh said. After running the cloud kitchen for about six months, Shaikh and his team introspected. They found out that they failed due to lack of cost-effective software. “Since we had our software company team in place, we decided to solve this problem. We learnt our lessons the hard way and by that time we had sound knowledge about how the restaurant industry operates and the problems faced by them at every stage. So, we created the architecture and built a foundation for TMBill,” said Shaikh. TMBill – the must have on a restaurant menu? Says Shaikh, “We started working on the idea of a complete ‘Restaurant Operating System’ which would be the ‘mainstay’ for the industry. I had a team of 12 developers in March 2015 and this team further helped me build the TMBill product. TMBill helps all types of food businesses, from a standalone food outlet to a large food chain, manage functions like billing, QR code ordering platform, CRM, customer loyalty, aggregator integration, analytics, inventory, recipe and wastage management, centralised menu management, vendor management and more. It’s a complete solution for a restaurant’s technology, operations and marketing needs, all within an integrated framework.” First customer Sharing his experiences about customer acquisition, Shaikh said, “We got our first customer, The Moctail Den near Bharati Vidyapeeth in 2015. We, made our framework and structure solid, did our test cases and use cases and based on that a prototype was created. Then we entered the market full-fledged. They were experienced in the hotel management domain and we had experience in software. They were our first paying customer and we offered them lifetime use of our software.” “From one customer in June 2015, TMBill went on to onboard 20 paying customers that year. The next year, 2016, TMBill was being used by 120 customers from Pune and Pimpri-Chinchwad area. Since TMBill gained traction, we continued to focus more on this business segment. Growth was 30 per cent from user perspective. We used to offer our software for as low as Rs2,000 to Rs3,000 then,” recalled Shaikh. Turning a corner Shaikh and his team’s persistence for the next two years – 2017 and 2018 – paid off. In 2019, the start-up got a good user base. “I used to visit each and every restaurant from Nigdi Pradhikaran to Shivajinagar area on my bike. Besides, we posted videos about the software on YouTube and did a lot of social media marketing. We started getting enquiries from customers within and outside India. It was a breakthrough point for us. Since we were bootstrapped, we managed to get only 1,800 customers till 2019, before the Covid-19 pandemic outbreak.” “We turned the corner after the Covid-19 outbreak in 2020. With lockdowns in India and other countries, several restaurants, hotels and businesses started looking for technological solutions to sustain during the pandemic. This gave us the much-required boost and we acquired a total of 5,000 customers globally. Of these, 1,300 are from India,” Shaikh explained. Saudi Arabia’s ‘GST’ moment Says Shaikh: “Saudi Arabia had earlier announced that every business will be required to publish a Value Added Tax (VAT) number on every invoice or bill issued by them. Those rules are being implemented from December 4 this year. Publishing VAT number on every bill essentially meant that no business would run without a billing software. This was like the GST-moment there. Sensing this opportunity, our chartered accountant Ganesh Joshi’s brother who stays in Saudi Arabia, offered us a plan. He became our distributor there.” “We have successfully registered a global presence in over 300 cities and 14 countries. We are the first company to provide a complete online cloud POS solution for restaurants on desktop and mobile devices. We now have 1,100 customers in the Gulf countries - Iraq, Bahrain, Oman, Qatar, Kuwait, Saudi Arabia and UAE; and about 100 customers in European countries like Denmark, Sweden, Finland, Norway and Germany. All these customers are premium restaurants in these geographies using our cloud-based software for the last two years,” states Shaikh. “We have an inhouse team of four sales executives. We are planning to expand this team and have 100 sales executives on ground for quicker expansion. This would also improve our profit margins,” stated Shaikh. Future Plans Shaikh claims there was an attempt to acquire his start-up by a Noida-based software company and an early-stage VC firm approached him with funding. “We want to reach a customer base of 10,000 so that our revenues and valuation also increases. We are hopeful that we achieve this target by 2022. We are also launching a feature soon in which a message will be delivered to the customer about how many calories, proteins (ingredients) they have consumed,” he stated. Shaikh is very optimistic about the future. He says, “There are millions of small and big restaurants in India. Only 10 to 20 per cent are ‘organised’ while rest are ‘unorganised’ in terms of government registration. Most of the organised outlets are in metro cities where we have already reached. There are two avenues for future growth. First is the unorganised segment where we can onboard 100,000 to one million restaurants easily and the second segment is the tier 2 and tier 3 cities which are yet to be covered. If we consider this, we have not even captured 1 per cent of the market and this means there is huge potential in the near future.” Proof of the pudding “We have been using TMBill for the last two years, and we are happy with the support and product they offered us. We are better at handling the cash flow, sales and inventory (P&L), reduced workforce by 30 per cent and now we have our own ordering platform instead of relying on some third-party provider,” says Bhushan Mane, owner, Kasturi Mastani House (Kothrud).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/startup-mantra-aiding-hotel-industry-tide-over-the-pandemic-101639219963412.html
11-12-2021||Mumbai||11 vehicles damaged as wall collapses in Thane housing society||A 50-ft compound wall of a residential society in Thane collapsed on Saturday morning, damaging 11 vehicles. No casualties were reported in the incident.According to civic officials, the wall of the Rajdeep Society near Malhar cinema came crashing down at around 9.45am. The Regional Disaster Management Cell (RDMC) of the Thane Municipal Corporation conveyed the information to the Thane Fire Brigade. An emergency tender as well as a rescue vehicle was rushed to the spot.“A total of seven two-wheelers and four four-wheelers were damaged due to the wall collapse. No injuries or loss of life was reported,” an RDMC official said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/11-vehicles-damaged-as-wall-collapses-in-thane-housing-society-101639219301179.html
11-12-2021||Other||Kashmir braces for snow next week as Srinagar experiences coldest night of season||Jammu and Kashmir summer capital Srinagar recorded the coldest night of the season as the mercury dipped to minus 3.6 degrees Celsius amid the weather office’s prediction of a coming western disturbance from the night of December 14 which may bring snow and rains.Nights continued to record sub-zero temperatures in Kashmir for the seventh day on Saturday with the mercury plunging to -6.4 °C in the mountain resort of Pahalgam in south Kashmir.The days remain warm as the sun continues to come out bright and break the effect of chilling night temperatures. Occasionally mornings remain foggy.The night temperature in all weather stations remained below zero.In north Kashmir, the ski resort of Gulmarg recorded a night temperature of -5.5 °C. The summer capital Srinagar recorded -3.6 °C as against -2.6 °C a night earlier.“This was the coldest night so far in Srinagar this season, going down 3 degrees from the normal of -0.6 °C,” an official of the meteorological department said.It was -4.5 °C in Konibal, - 4.3 °C in Kupwara, and -3.7 °C in Qazigund. In the Union territory of Ladakh, Drass recorded bone-chilling -18 °C while it was –12.1 °C in Leh during the night.The weather office modified its prediction of snow and rains in the union territories of Jammu and Kashmir and Ladakh next week.Director, meteorological department of J&K and Ladakh, Sonam Lotus said that the dry weather spell will break by the night of December 14.“As of now, light snow and rain in the plains of J&K are most likely during the nights of December 14 and 15,” he said. He said that the higher reaches especially of North Kashmir may receive moderate snowfall during the above period.“Light to moderate snow is also likely at places like Sonmarg-Drass axis, Panikhar-Padum and on other higher reaches of Kargil and Leh dist during the above period,” he said.“There’s no forecast of any heavy rain and snow during this spell of western disturbance,” he said. The weather is most likely to remain generally cloudy during December 14-16th in Ladakh. Jammu and Kashmir witnessed a day of light rains and snow on Sunday last.Srinagar received rains on Sunday while snow fell on mountainous areas like Gulmarg in north Kashmir and Shopian in south Kashmir. Some areas of Jammu were hit by hails. Moderate snowfall was also reported at Kargil, Zanskar and in the higher reaches of Leh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/kashmir-braces-for-snow-next-week-as-srinagar-experiences-coldest-night-of-season-101639219241734.html
11-12-2021||Bhopal||Dead man in MP’s Raigarh receives 'vaccinated' certificate, authorities cite 'glitch'||The authorities in Madhya Pradesh’s Raigarh district have recently sent a message for the second dose of vaccine against Covid-19 to a person who passed away in May this year. The deceased was also sent a certificate stating completion of his two-dose vaccination course.A PTI report said officials cited computer error as the reason behind the goof-up, adding an inquiry has been initiated into the matter.The 78-year-old deceased man, Purushottam Shakyawar, hailing from Biaora town, was sent the message on December 3, his son Phool Singh Shakyawar told the news agency. The family was also able to download the certificate.Shakyawar said his father had taken the first dose of the vaccine on April 8. He passed away on May 24 while undergoing treatment in Indore.District vaccination officer Dr PL Bhagoria also spoke about a glitch in the computer that may have generated such a message.Another official said someone might have entered the wrong mobile phone number while making an entry, adding the mistake will be rectified.Meanwhile, Congress MLA from Biaora Ramchandra Dangi said the state government was misleading people by presenting wrong data on vaccination.Such incidents were exposing the government's claim and a high-level inquiry should be conducted into all such cases, he said.According to an official release, 9,33,96,219 Covid-19 vaccine doses have been administered so far in MP, including 4,55,240 on FridayMadhya Pradesh reported 15 new Coronavirus cases on Friday, taking the statewide caseload to 7,93,322. The death toll remained unchanged at 10,529.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bhopal-news/dead-man-in-mp-s-raigarh-receives-vaccinated-certificate-authorities-cite-glitch-101639218614518.html
11-12-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab Congress rally: Mansa MLA wants action against cops for lathicharge on protesters||Mansa MLA Nazar Singh Manshahia on Saturday urged chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi to initiate action against policemen responsible for beating up unemployed protesters on Friday. Manshahia took to Facebook to express his anguish after videos were shared on social media, showing police personnel in plainclothes leading cops in beating trained teachers at the Congress rally in Mansa. The police personnel in question is stated to be a deputy superintendent of police (DSP) in the CM’s security wing. During the rally, a group of unemployed teachers raised slogans, demanding government jobs. Manshahia, who was also present at the rally, said that the videos were disturbing. “It is an inhuman way adopted by the police officer, who deserves punitive action as he was ruthless. It was painful to watch videos where he was seen attacking protesters in a bus when they were being taken out of the venue by the district police,” he said. During the rally, a group of teachers and a section of Youth Congress activists had jeered in the presence of the CM. While the police personnel did not act against those who hooted continuously against Punjabi singer Sidhu Moosewala, who joined the Congress recently, but the protesting teachers faced the heat. After the protests, Channi said his government has no sympathy for those create ruckus. The CM suspended his address for 20 minutes. Several political leaders, including state transport minister Amrinder Singh Raja Warring, AICC secretary Harshwardhan Sapkal and Moosewala, were present on the dais but no one responded to the police action on the unemployed teachers. Manshahia justified the CM’s statement on not tolerating protests at public programmes. “Channi is in the CM office for less than three months and he has undertaken several people-oriented steps. He has assured sympathetic redressal of long-pending issues of government employees and unemployed teachers. But it is unfair to create ruckus and the CM should be given time to resolve matters,” said the MLA, who had switched to the Congress after quitting the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) in April 2019.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-congress-rally-mansa-mla-wants-action-against-cops-for-lathicharge-on-protesters-101639214800719.html
11-12-2021||Indore||Omicron cases: 2 children test Covid +ve in Indore, they came back from Nigeria||Two children have tested positive for Covid-19 in Madhya Pradesh's Indore after they came back from Nigeria five days back, amid rising cases of Omicron in India, news agency PTI reported on Saturday.Till now, Madhya Pradesh has not reported a single case of the variant.The children, a 14-year-old girl and her eight-year-old brother, went to Nigeria with their mother to meet their father and came back to Indore on December 6 via New Delhi, Dr Amit Malakar, the nodal officer of Covid-19 in the district, said.Also Read| HTLS 2021: 'Concerned but not worried about Omicron', says MP chief minister Shivraj ChouhanDr Malakar said after their test reports came in, the infected siblings were shifted to a hospital and their samples are being sent to Delhi's National Centre for Disease Control (NCDC) for genome sequencing to know whether they are carrying the Omicron variant.He added that the children and their mother live in Indore, while the father is working in Nigeria."Although the mother of the two children was not found infected with coronavirus, we have taken her sample for re-examination as a precaution," the Covid-19 nodal officer of the district also told PTI.At the beginning of December, the Indore health department was trying to trace 100 foreign returnees who came back to the district in the last month. "Samples of the 50 traced persons were tested and none of them was found to be infected with Covid-19," chief medical and health officer Dr BS Saitya said on December 1.Meanwhile, in another Madhya Pradesh district Jabalpur, a 28-year-old German national tested positive for Covid-19 and his samples were sent for genome sequencing. As the man attended a wedding, samples of 50 more people were collected for testing, district contact officer Dr D Mohanty said on Tuesday.Also Read| Omicron: German tests Covid positive in Madhya Pradesh, had attended a weddingThe Madhya Pradesh government has stepped up surveillance at the state's borders and precautionary measures are being taken given the Omicron cases reported in neighbouring states, home minister Narottam Mishra said on Monday.Rajasthan, Maharashtra and Gujarat- which share their borders with Madhya Pradesh, have reported cases of the variant.“Following cases of Omicron in neighbouring states, we are increasing the watch at Madhya Pradesh borders and taking precautions with utmost concern,” Mishra said and urged people to be careful.(With PTI inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/indore-news/omicron-cases-2-children-test-covid-ve-in-indore-they-came-back-from-nigeria-101639209077378.html
11-12-2021||Dehradun||Uttarakhand CM Dhami warns of action against objectionable comments about late defence personnel||Uttarakhand chief minister Pushkar Singh Dhami on Saturday warned of stringent legal action against anyone who makes any objectionable comment about any late defence personnel on social media or otherwise.Speaking to news agency ANI, Dhami said respect for soldiers is “topmost for us” and remembered late chief of defence staff (CDS) General Bipin Rawat, who was killed along with his wife Madhulika and 11 others in a helicopter crash in Tamil Nadu on December 8.Also Read| Gen Bipin Rawat’s daughters collect ashes, to immerse them in Haridwar“Late CDS Gen Rawat will always be Uttarakhand's pride. If any miscreant makes any objectionable comment about any late defence personnel on social media or otherwise, our govt will take stringent legal action against them,” Rawat told the news agency.Respect for our soldiers is topmost for us. Late CDS Gen Rawat will always be Uttarakhand's pride. If any miscreant makes any objectionable comment about any late defence personnel on social media or otherwise, our govt will take stringent legal action against them: CM PS Dhami pic.twitter.com/5hR4ZRx8IaThe Uttarakhand chief minister's warning comes a day after his Karnataka counterpart Basavaraj Bommai said on Friday that legal action will be taken against those who make disrespectful comments about General Rawat.Also Read| Offensive posts about Gen Rawat's chopper crash won't be tolerated: Karnataka CM"Offensive tweets and social media posts about the tragic chopper crash in which we lost our CDS General Bipin Rawat will not be tolerated. I strongly condemn all such messages and have instructed our police officials to take strict disciplinary legal action against the offenders," Bommai tweeted on Friday.“Every Indian should strongly condemn this act of perverted minds against the man who led the armed forces to defend the country,” Bommai told reporters in Shiggaon.General Rawat and his wife Madhulika were laid side by side on the same pyre for cremation at the Brar Square crematorium in Delhi Cantonment on Friday. Their daughters Kritika and Tarini lit the funeral pyre of their parents.General Rawat was cremated with full military honours including a 17-gun salute by the military. Politicians, security personnel, envoys among others paid their last respects to the country's first CDS.Indian Air Force (IAF) officer Group Captain Varun Singh, who is the lone survivor of the December 8 helicopter crash, is maintaining vital signs, but his condition remains critical.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/dehradun-news/cm-warns-of-action-against-objectionable-comments-about-late-defence-personnel-101639201127789.html
11-12-2021||Patna||Incidents of digital fraud in Bihar panchayat polls raise questions on biometric system||Bihar’s ongoing 11-phase panchayat polls, having introduced a biometric system for voters’ verification at the polling booths, may have curbed bogus voting, but instances of cyber fraud have raised a question mark on the system being foolproof. The State Election Commission (SEC), holding the panchayat polls, has now taken a slew of measures to strengthen the system by putting strict checks on personnel handling the machines and capturing fingerprints of voters in the machines for verification and restricting the use of mobiles at the booths. This comes after reports of fraudsters taking out money from accounts of voters by taking their fingerprints wrongly in other devices emerged. How it happened In Munger district, during the ninth phase of polling on November 29, over a dozen voters were at wit’s end when they found to their dismay that money had been debited from their accounts to the tune of ₹5000-10000 just one hour after they had cast their votes at booth number 145 in village Charaun under Munger Sadar block falling under Muffasil police station. The victims, including some women, immediately rushed to the booths and created a hue and cry. SDM, Sadar, Munger, Khushboo Gupta, after reaching the booth, questioned one Ravi Kumar handling the biometric machines and subsequently, unravelled how he was the one who had secretly taken the fingerprints of the voters on his phone before they had put their fingerprints in the biometric machine to cast their votes. Police investigations found Kumar, now lodged in jail after the arrest, was working in one nearby common service centres (CSC) kiosk that provides various government-related services to villagers including cash transactions of a rural bank, which had its sole branch in the village. People familiar with the matter said Kumar had his login ID through which he had access to the bank accounts of the voters having accounts in the branch. The bank accounts of villagers could be assessed by the agents working at the CSC (also known as cash, sale point) by getting a thumb impression and Aadhaar Card details easily. Fraudulent withdrawal of money is possible as the personnel have access to login IDs and also get OTP (one–time password) on behalf of the account holders, as told by those in the know of the functioning of the CSCs. For the biometric system used in panchayat polls, thousands of agents working at the CSCs across Bihar at the village level had been roped in. “Ravi Kumar had an application loaded on his phone through which he managed to access accounts of the victims through fingerprints taken on his phone and Aadhaar card details. He made a login of the bank from one Guddu in Banka,” said SDM, Munger. “He was taking fingerprints of the voters twice, once for the phone and second for the biometric machine to cast votes,” the SDM added. DSP (headquarter) Munger, Alok Ranjan, who is now the acting SP, Munger, said investigations were still going on. Another case Incidentally, similar complaints of fraudulent withdrawal of money from bank accounts of around 30 persons came to light on the same day (November 29) at booth number 81 and 133 in Baisi block soon after the persons cheated had cast their votes during the ninth phase of polling. All the victims hailed from Surgaon, Kumharwa, Baisi, Mobehaa, Chairaiya and Rehuya panchayat in Baisi block in Purnea district, one of the poverty-stricken districts in the state bordering West Bengal. An inquiry conducted by SP Purnea, Daya Shankar, submitted to DM, Purnea, Rahul Kumar mentions that of the 30 persons who lodged complaints of losing money through fraudulent withdrawals, six did not cast their votes. The report also said that on 29 November, money from the bank accounts of 27 people was fraudulently withdrawn while on November 28 three others were cheated. “It has come to light that around four months back some unidentified persons took fingerprints of villagers in the name of providing loans. A few days ahead of the election, some microfinancing company officials got money transacted on behalf of small account holders by taking fingerprints from the CSP agents,” the report said. According to the police report, one Mohammed Amir alias Khushro had been arrested a few months back on charges of fraudulently withdrawing cash from the accounts of some persons through the biometric system on the complaint in Amour police station dated 8.9.2021. However, police have not made any arrests connected to fraudulent withdrawals of money from bank accounts of 30 persons in Baisi so far. “No arrests have been made so far. Investigations are going on,” said DM, Purnea. Vulnerability of biometric systemThe instances of fraudulent withdrawal of money from bank accounts of voters just after they cast their votes in the panchayat election has raised a few questions about the ‘foolproof’ biometric system to verify voters’ identity. Questions are being raised whether voters’ thumb impression could be misused. Deputy director-general, department of telecom, Government of India, Atul Sinha, feels the biometric system is surely a good method for voters verification as it is linked with Aadhaar but sometimes thumb impression could be misused. “There are certain vulnerabilities as a thumb impression given wrongly or taken wrongly in any other device for ulterior motives could be misused by fraudsters. But, I want to say the biometric system for voters verification, once having recording thumb impression of any person, cannot be manipulated or misused”. State Election Commissioner Dr Deepak Prasad too made a strong argument that the biometric system of voters’ identification used in panchayat polls was foolproof asserting that the case of fraudulent withdrawal of money in Munger did not happen from the voters’ biometric machine. “It’s just an isolated instance in Munger where a person with ulterior motives manipulated the system by using his own device that was detected later. In Purnea, there is still no evidence that the fraudulent cash withdrawals were carried out through any manipulation of our biometric system because some of the fraudulent withdrawals were as big as ₹30000 to ₹40000. The upper limit of withdrawal from CSC points at the villages is only ₹10000,” he said. Digital fraud through the thumb impression of voters in Munger and Purnea has brought the CSC personnel, deployed to handle biometric machines at the booths during panchayat election voting, under the scanner. One, it has exposed how a CSC personnel used a device of his own to secretly take fingerprint impressions of voters having bank accounts and withdraw money. Secondly, it has raised a question as to whether it was right on part of the SEC to hire the CSCs agents (working on commission) to handle biometric machines at the booths. SEC, Dr Prasad, maintained the poll panel decided to hire CSCs personnel for using biometric machines as the work required certain technical know-how. Also, CSCs personnel were working under government bodies as all the CSCs schemes are IT-enabled, e-governance services under the Ministry of Electronics and Information Technology. “In every phase, 12,000 personnel of CSCs were roped in through randomization. But there has been an unfortunate case of cheating by one personnel. So, the percentage of personnel indulging in fraud is negligible and more or less, the system of biometric was not manipulated either. We decided to hire CSCs because they were working in government services. We did not hire any private persons for the work,” he said. Prasad also said the Baisi case of fraud seemingly looks like a handiwork of some local gangs as well some elements who are against the biometric system because it has checked the bogus voting. “I cannot deny the possibility of a conspiracy in the works to defame the biometric system of voters verification because it has brought in transparency in the voting system and also checked bogus voting. On average, 12000 to 15000 persons have been caught trying to put bogus vote during the 10-phase election so far,” he said. The 11 phase panchayat polls will conclude on December 12.Nonetheless, the SEC said the state poll panel had further strengthened the checks in place for personnel handling biometric machines at booths by issuing instructions to DMs that no CSCs personnel would be allowed to take phones and the login ID’s would be kept inactive on the voting day. “We feel such instances would not take place anymore,” Prasad said. 
11-12-2021||Delhi||#DelhiWinter and delicious delicacies||Come winter and foodies in Delhi rejoice for their platter gets a makeover to suit the season. Be it Butter Chai and Coffee, Sarson ka Saag with Makki ki Roti, or Gajar ka Halwa — there are options aplenty to indulge in to make the most of chilly weather. And we tell you where to try them in the Capital.Soupy talesThere’s nothing more soothing that a piping hot soup on a cold winter evening. And the shop called Pishori Chicken and Veg Soup at Hari Nagar is simply the best place to grab one! “Be it chicken soup or tomato soup, or our winter special Kharodhe ka Soup, they are all very popular. Log dur-dur se aate hain yahan soup peene ke liye,” says Yoginder Pal Sapra, owner of the shop who talks without pausing his hands from filling up multiple glasses of soups in one go. A squeeze of lemon and a sprinkle of masalas on the top, and voila!Kharodhe ka Soup: ₹130 for a glassTomato Soup: ₹60 for a glassChicken Soup: ₹80 for a glassSarson ka Saag with Makki ki Roti What is winter in north India without the legendary regional combo — Sarson ka Saag and Makki ki Roti? Well, if you are looking for an absolutely yummy plate, go get one at Dhaniya Da Dhaba in Lajpat Nagar IV. “It’s very difficult to find authentic Punjabi Sarso da Saag and Makki di Roti in Delhi, but it has become my favourite since I had it at this spot in south Delhi. Punjabi ghar jaisa preparation aur swaad aata hai yahan,” says Prabhjot Singh from a Delhi-based foodie group.Price: ₹110/plateDoodh JalebiJalebi is indeed an all-time favourite, but come winter and what lends it a unique company is the warm milk. Dunked in thick milk and topped with cream, it’s the true desi breakfast! “Hum ye 7.30am banana shuru kar dete hain. Aur sardiyon mein sale itni badh jati hai ki hum raat ke 10.30 tak banate hi rehte hain. Pehle jalebi banti hai; doodh alag kadhte hain. Phir hum glass mein dono ko mix karke dete hain,” says Dishant from Makhal Lal Tika Ram in Bara Bazar, Kashmere Gate.Price: ₹90 for a glassShahi TukdaThere is clearly no competition to making the best Shahi Tukda when one tastes the version available at Cool Point near Jama Masjid. The gooey pieces of sweetened bread topped with delicious rabri, have been a favourite among denizens since ages. “For me, Delhi’s winter is the best time for comfort food aur Jama Masjid ki baat karen toh do cheezein ekdum relate hoti hain, ek wahan ki galiyan aur dusra Shahi Tukda! Your visit is incomplete if you don’t try this famous mughlai dessert,” says food blogger Palak Kapoor.Price: ₹40 per plate and ₹200 for half kg Gajar ka HalwaGajrela aka Gajar ka Halwa is that taste that every Delhiite craves for in winter. And a tiny stall near Liberty Cinema in Karol Bagh is the place to source it from! Popular for their kulfi-faluda in summer, the kiosk named Gopal Di Kulfi turns into a winter delight with the whiff of its Gajar ka Halwa filling up the entire market. Vikas Ghai, a sales professional from Paschim Vihar who was spotted trying some of this sweet treat here, says, “We dropped someone off at the railway station with the plan to have this yummy Gajar ka Halwa here. This is our favourite hang out place in winters and we always either get it packed or savour it here itself. The best part is it’s neither over sweet not topped with too much khoya unlike many other places!” Price: ₹70 for 100gm; ₹350 for half kg Daulat ki ChaatNo, this is not a chaat! It’s a dessert. If there is a winter speciality that’s loved despite it being cold, it’s Daulat ki Chaat. Milk is whisked into foam for endless hours and then topped with saffron, khoya and nuts to make the most mystical dessert that’s available in the bylanes of Old Delhi. Jaspal Sunil Kumar, who runs a cart by the name of Daulat ki Chaat Wale in Dariba Kalan, says, “Mere parivar mein sab yahi banate hain. Hum sab roz do baje se banana shuru karte hain aur phir sab nikal padhte hain dilli ki galiyon mein. Sab kuchh shaam tak bik jaata hai.”Price: ₹50-80/plate (depending on the size)Gajak, ChikkiA walk in the interiors of Old Delhi’s Kinari Bazaar will lead you to a small shop by the name of Pandit Subedar & Sons, which offers close to 20 varieties of gajaks and chikkis alongside other winter sweets. Yashi Sharma, a teacher from Malviya Nagar, says, “Come winter, and we start stocking up on chikki and gajak. Our favourite place to buy them is this shop in Kinari. We love the Shalimar Gajak and even Khajur ki Burfi available there. The exciting part is that this shop also home delivers through an app.”Shalimar Gajak: ₹600/kgKhajur ki Barfi: ₹600/kgButter Chai or Butter Coffee?Who doesn’t love a hot cuppa of tea or coffee on a wintery day or night? Now imagine it being topped with a dollop of butter! “I’m a tea person so I love the Butter Chai version of it more than Butter Coffee (chuckles),” says Manas Swaroop, a law student from Model Town, adding, “My family and I often go to Chandni Chowk to have the popular Butter Chai and Butter Coffee there. It has become a winter ritual for us. In fact, main toh thermos mein pack karwake bhi leke aata hun ghar walon ke liye. And it’s a must have for us at least one Sunday of the month.”Butter Chai: ₹15 per cupButter Coffee: ₹20 per cup Kadhai ka DoodhA glass of warm, saffron-flavoured milk is a must have in winter! Try it at Doodh Bhawan, near Old Delhi’s Jama Masjid. “It’s a delicacy that people relish in winter. Kadhai mein doodh ko subah se shaam tak boil karte hain aur phir isme chuhare aur dusre dry fruits add karte hai till it gets rich and thick by the night,” says Ramit Mitra, a Delhi-based food walk organiser. Price: ₹35 for 250mlAuthor tweets @anjuriFollow more stories on Facebook and Twitter||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhiwinter-and-delicious-delicacies-101639202464550.html
11-12-2021||Delhi||At 8.3 degrees, last night was the coldest yet of this winter in Delhi||At 8.3 degrees Celsius, Delhi on Friday recorded the coldest night yet this winter season, ANI news agency reported citing the India Meteorological Department (IMD).“Last night was the coldest in Delhi with the temperature plummeting to 8.3 degrees Celsius. It was the coldest night of this season till now,” an IMD official was quoted as saying by the agency.The maximum temperature on Friday, however, rose to 23.7 degrees Celsius earlier in the day, but it dipped below 10 degrees during the night.With temperatures dipping to 8.3 degrees, the mercury level on Friday was just slightly lower than the night before on Thursday, when the national capital recorded 8.4 degrees Celsius, marking back-to-back cold nights and plummeting temperatures in an entirely chilly week.The situation due to the weather is especially compounded in the national capital by the air pollution crisis. On Saturday morning, the air quality index (AQI) in Delhi slipped to 301 in the ‘very poor’ category, according to the System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting And Research (SAFAR).The PM 10 was recorded at 217 in the ‘moderate’ category and PM 2.5 was recorded at 121 in the ‘very poor’ category at 9:17am, marking the third consecutive day in the national capital when the air quality has remained in the ‘poor’ category.Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal in October unveiled his 10-point master plan to combat severe air pollution in the winter months, which included announcing alternatives to stubble burning, measures to control road dust and vehicular emissions, and urging governments of neighbouring national capital region (NCR) states to adopt similar steps.The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) government led by Kejriwal has also formed a 16-member team to evaluate the performance of the Connaught Place smog tower and marked air pollution hot spots through the Green Delhi app.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/at-8-3-degrees-last-night-was-the-coldest-yet-of-this-winter-in-delhi-101639199353864.html
11-12-2021||Noida||This Noida-based mountaineer is training to climb Everest sans oxygen support||“Endless miles of white patches of snow is the most thrilling aspect of climbing mountains,” says mountaineer Arjun Vajpai. On International Mountain Day (December 11), the 28-year-old from Noida tells us about his plans to climb Mt Everest without oxygen, and why it’s integral that he must achieve this. “Climbing without oxygen is a ridiculous task to take up. A lot of people don’t understand what it entails. Climbing an 8,000 meters mountain is risky in itself and climbing without oxygen increases your chance of not coming back home safely. Very few people have been able to make it without oxygen. The cold get colder and there are high chances of frost bites. Blood gets thicker and it gets harder for your heart to push blood. If you get too exposed or push yourself too hard, there is a high chance that you might get frost bitten, might lose toes, fingers… But that’s the tip of the iceberg,” says Vajpai, who attempted to climb Mt Everest without oxygen earlier this year as well. However, he’s better prepared now, and shares: “I see it as an opportunity to discover a newer version of myself. Climbing Everest without oxygen is the holy grail of mountaineering. In its own way, it’s the real test for a mountaineer, to see how far the human body can take. The margin of error is next to nothing. But, I feel I’m ready for it. The challenge is to come back down! You have motivation to reach the top. Without oxygen, I have heard that the real challenge is when you start to come down. So, I am looking forward to it.”An intensive prep is underway for Vajpai as climbing 8,000 meters can be tricky at times. “It’s tough to simulate the same kind of environment and stress which your body will go through when you are climbing any 8,000 meters mountain. It takes all my free time. Sometimes I’m training myself physically through CrossFit physical training. I have a small gym in the house. Lot of high intensive workout happens at home. My training regime has three days of cycling when I am on my bike. My ankles are completely finished as they have had so many tendon tears. I cannot run a lot but I compensate with cycling. I cycle for about 59-60 kilometres from Noida to Greater Noida and back, when I’m in the city. Or I compensate with hikes when I’m in the mountains. I take a backpack which weighs about 15-20 kg and we go on uphill hikes. That’s the prep that happens. Then there is physical prep and mental prep. I have a meditation approach for getting into the zone for climbing,” he adds. Though he might be ready, his parents — Colonel Sanjeev Vajpai, and Priya Vajpai — are still coming to terms with his task ahead. “My family is still very apprehensive. It’s not easy for a parent to let go of their child knowing that there is a high possibility he might not come back home this time. But they have gone a long way. My mom is a tigress with wings of steel and I keep testing her patience,” he says. But to Vajpai, climbing mountains comes naturally now since he scaled Mt Everest in 2010, Mt Lhotse in 2011, Mt Manaslu in 2011, Mt Makalu in 2016, Mt Cho You in 2016, and Mt Kangchenjunga in 2018. “I’ve taken to climbing mountains like fish takes to water. It feels like going home. At times, I feel more anxious in the cities than when I’m up there in the mountains,” he says, adding what’s necessary before he packs bags for any summit is yummy food and a friends’ gettogether! “I’ve a party with friends before I leave, a couple of beers with them and bingeing on a lot of homemade food. I do all that I’m going to miss when I’m up there in the cold, seeking motivation and inspiration,” he concludes.Author tweets @anjuriFollow more stories on Facebook and Twitter||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/this-noida-based-mountaineer-is-trainning-to-climb-everest-sans-oxygen-support-101639201010432.html
11-12-2021||Delhi||Delhi reports second case of Omicron variant; tally in India rises to 33||Delhi has reported its second case of Omicron after a fully vaccinated individual with a travel history to Zimbabwe and South Africa tested positive for the new variant of the coronavirus deemed to be more dangerous and transmissible than the previous strains.“Second case of Omicron Variant reported in Delhi. The person was fully vaccinated and was coming from Zimbabwe. The person had also travelled to South Africa,” news agency ANI reported on Saturday, citing an official of the Arvind Kejriwal-led Delhi government.The patient is undergoing treatment at the LNJP Hospital and only has weakness, officials told news agency PTI.With the new case in Delhi, India's Omicron tally has risen to 33.Also read | Omicron: Will India allow Covid-19 booster dose? Here's what central expert panel saidLast Sunday, a 37-year-old fully vaccinated man who arrived in Delhi from Tanzania, became the first patient of Omicron in the national capital. The patient, a resident of Ranchi, travelled from Tanzania to Doha and from there he came to Delhi on a Qatar Airways flight on December 2.So far, Omicron cases have been detected in Maharashtra, which has the highest number of patients, Gujarat, Rajasthan, Karnataka and Delhi.A three-and-half-year-old girl in Maharashtra tested positive for Omicron, along with six other people, taking the number of infections of the new variant in the state to 17, according to the state's health department.Authorities in Mumbai have imposed Section 144 of the Code of Criminal Procedure (CrCP) for December 11 and 12 and prohibited rallies, morchas and processions in wake of the rising cases of the Omicron variant. Violators of the order will be punished under Section 188 of the Indian Penal Code (IPC).On Friday, the Centre warned about the decline in usage of face masks across the country amid the emergence of the Omicron.Dr VK Paul, NITI Aayog member (health), said people are operating at a “risky and unacceptable” level, stressing that both masks and vaccines are important for protection against coronavirus disease (Covid-19).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-reports-second-case-of-omicron-variant-tally-in-india-rises-to-33-101639198630757.html
11-12-2021||Other||With only 9 days of sitting, Odisha Assembly adjourned amid ruckus||Amid continuing ruckus by the opposition demanding the resignation of minister of state for home and energy Dibya Shankar Mishra, alleging his proximity to the main accused in the case of murder of a woman schoolteacher in Kalahandi district, the winter session of the Odisha Assembly came to an end on Friday, twenty days ahead of its scheduled conclusion.Government chief whip Pramila Mallick moved an adjournment motion in the House seeking an end to the winter session, following which Opposition BJP and Congress members staged a walkout. The House was adjourned sine die by Speaker Surya Patro after passing of the supplementary budget of ₹19,833 crore.Earlier in the day, the Speaker had to adjourn the proceedings of the House twice with opposition BJP and Congress creating ruckus holding placards and beating gongs to demand the resignation of Mishra in Mamita Meher murder case. Meher, 26, was allegedly killed by Gobind Sahu, president of the managing committee of Sunshine English medium school in Mahaling grampanchayat of Kalahandi district on October 8 after she allegedly threatened to expose her extramarital affairs. Though Sahu was arrested, the opposition has been stridently demanding Mishra’s sacking from the Naveen Patnaik ministry alleging his complicity with Sahu.BJD MLAs too resorted to sloganeering in the House over alleged negligence by the Centre over allocation of houses under Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojana, fuel price hike and inflation.Since December 1 when the winter session began, no significant business has been undertaken in the Assembly amid protests, sloganeering, blocking of the Assembly gate, beating gongs and bells and the sprinkling of gangajal and cow dung-laced water for ‘purification’ of the premises. The House ran for less than two hours during the last 9 days of the session and all-party meetings convened by the Speaker to end the deadlock did not succeed as opposition leaders boycotted it.Deputy Leader of Opposition, Mohan Majhi said the opposition wanted the chief minister to come to the House and not make a statement through video conference.“But his indifference to our demands compelled us to protest in the House to make our voices reach to the CM. He can travel all over Odisha to distribute Biju Swasthya Kalyan Yojana cards, but cannot attend the Assembly session and take our questions,” Majhi said. “He should have suspended Dibya Shankar Mishra over his involvement in the Mamita Meher murder case. But he did not respond to any of our demands.”Though the Assembly is supposed to sit for 60 days in a calendar year, during the 21-year rule of the BJD, the Assembly has completed the 60-day sitting only three times - during 2006, 2010 and 2012. In the remaining years, it has convened for anything between 41 days and 58 days. This year, the Assembly sat only for 30 days. In 2020, the Odisha Assembly’s winter session was adjourned after sitting for only 10 days.After the first pre-independent assembly was formed on February 3, 1937, the Odisha assembly fulfilled the 60-day-a-year norm only a dozen times - 1952, 1957, 1958, 1959, 1960, 1962, 1964, 1965, 1972, 2006, 2010 and 2012. When the first pre-independent assembly was dissolved on September 14, 1945, it had held a total of 188 sitting days.The highest-ever sittings in a calendar year was achieved in 1955 when the Assembly sat for 103 days over two sessions....||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/with-only-9-days-of-sitting-odisha-assembly-adjourned-amid-ruckus-101639199318230.html
11-12-2021||Mumbai||Omicron alert: Mumbai bans large gatherings for 48 hours, Sec 144 in place||Amid rising cases of the Omicron variant of the coronavirus, the Mumbai Police on Friday imposed prohibitory orders in the city for 48 hours, banning large gatherings over the weekend.A police official, cited by the PTI news agency, said the prohibitory orders under Section 144 of the Criminal Procedure Code (CrPC) within the Mumbai Commissionerate limits also restrict rallies and protest marches involving people and vehicles over the next two days.Also Read | Omicron cases in Maharashtra rise to 17 as Mumbai, Pune report fresh infectionsThe orders, issued by the deputy commissioner of police (operations) in Mumbai, were necessary, according to the police, in view of the threat posed by the Omicron variant of the coronavirus, which is said to be highly infectious and capable of undergoing frequent mutations. The restrictive orders also come against the backdrop of violent protests in Amravati and other regions in Maharashtra last week.“It has been issued to prevent danger to human life from the new Omicron variant of Covid-19 as well as a threat to the law and order situation against the backdrop of violence that took place in Amravati, Malegaon, and Nanded,” a senior police official was quoted as saying by PTI.According to the prohibitory orders issued in Mumbai, violators will be punished under section 188 of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and other legal provisions.Also Read | Govt warns about ‘risky’, 'unacceptable' level of mask usage amid Omicron scareMaharashtra reported 695 new Covid-19 cases and 12 deaths in the past 24 hours. With the new infections, Maharashtra’s caseload rose to 66,42,372 including 6,534 active cases.The tally of Omicron variant infections found in the state also went up to 17, according to the state health department bulletin. The latest report from the National Institute of Virology showed seven new Omicron cases have been reported in Maharashtra—three in Mumbai and four in Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation in the Pune district.The three new patients from Mumbai were all men, aged 48, 25, and 37 years with a recent history of travel to Tanzania, the UK, and South Africa, respectively.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/omicron-alert-mumbai-bans-large-gatherings-for-48-hours-sec-144-in-place-101639193889738.html
11-12-2021||Patna||Bihar panchayat elections: Last phase of polling in 20 districts tomorrow||Voting for the 11th and final phase of the ongoing Bihar panchayat elections will be held on Sunday, December 12, across 20 districts in the state.According to the polling schedule shared by the state election commission, as many as 38 blocks in 20 of Bihar's districts will be up for polls on Sunday, adequate preparations for which have already been made by the competent authorities.Also Read | Bihar Panchayat Election 2021 Result: Counting continues amid tight securityOfficials have set 189 polling stations, including 182 primary polling stations and seven auxiliary polling stations, in 13 panchayat areas.As many as 1,134 election personnel have been deployed on duty to ensure voters do not face any difficulties during the course of the polling, and an adequate number of police forces have also been directed to ensure the smooth functioning of the voting process.In case election personnel face any trouble during the polling, 10 per cent of additional polling personnel have also been kept ready by the administration. They will be posted at the block headquarters on voting day if needed.The campaigning for this final phase of the Bihar panchayat elections came to an end on Friday evening, beginning the countdown for polling day. According to HT's sister publication Live Hindustan, the candidates and the supporters locked in the fray are now brushing up their personal contacts and rounding up the voters for a final push ahead of voting.All administrative preparations for the elections in the blocks have been completed, and the deputed polling parties are entrusted with the election material for conducting the polls. Meanwhile, the publication reported the final list of polling personnel will be sent to all the stations by Saturday.Also Read | Tenth phase of Bihar panchayat polls records 63.90% votingThe 10th phase of the Bihar panchayat elections was held on December 8 across 34 districts in the state, whereby candidates for 24,280 posts including—gram panchayat members, mukhiya, panchayat samiti members, zilla parishad members, gram kachari, the panch, and the sarpanch—were in the fray.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/bihar-panchayat-elections-last-phase-of-polling-in-20-districts-tomorrow-101639189512839.html
11-12-2021||Mumbai||AIMIM to launch campaign for Maharashtra municipal polls from today||The All India Majlis-E-Ittehadul Muslimeen (AIMIM) will on Saturday launch its campaign for next year's Maharashtra municipal elections with party president Asaduddin Owaisi addressing a public rally at the Bandra-Kurla Complex (BKC) in Mumbai.During the rally, Owaisi will speak about the issues that are confronting the Muslim community that forms 11.54 per cent of Maharashtra’s population, the fourth-largest after Uttar Pradesh, West Bengal and Bihar.Saturday's rally comes almost six weeks after Owaisi announced the AIMIM will contest all seats in the civic polls in Maharashtra. "We will contest all seats, why not... We had a detailed discussion over candidates' selection, preparations underway...," the Lok Sabha MP told reporters in Aurangabad.The AIMIM was denied permission to hold a rally at Mumbai's BKC on November 27 in wake of the coronavirus pandemic and the recent incidents of violence reported in some districts of Maharashtra.In the run-up to the municipal elections, the AIMIM has attacked the Congress and the Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) for joining the "communal" Shiv Sena to grab power in Maharashtra. The Congress, the NCP and the Shiv Sena are part of the ruling Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government in the state.Also Read| Alliance for municipal polls will be decided at local level: NCP's Nawab MalikAddressing a party convention in Solapur last month, Asaduddin Owaisi said the Muslim community got a slap on the face from the Congress party and NCP."Rahul Gandhi, Sharad Pawar and Uddhav Thackeray decided to come together. I was urging the (Muslim) community to come together but you did not understand my appeal. Now they have come together and slapped you on the face," Owaisi said on November 23.Hitting out at Gandhi and Pawar, Owaisi also alleged that the two leaders asked Muslims to not vote for the AIMIM, but themselves aligned with the Shiv Sena to safeguard power, properties and families.Elections to 13 municipal corporations, including Mumbai, Pune, Nagpur and Nashik are scheduled to be held next year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/aimim-to-launch-campaign-for-maharashtra-municipal-polls-from-today-101639181770153.html
11-12-2021||Delhi||Delhiwale: A living landmark for 40 years||She’s a living landmark of Connaught Place. The colonial-era commercial district has seen rapid transformation in recent decades, and very few institutions have managed to survive.But fruit seller Ms Phoolwati, 60, can seen everyday in the same spot on the KG Marg pavement - and it’s been 40 years. She sits still, with such composure that the mere act of buying an apple or a guava from her might turn out to be soothing or meditative experience.This afternoon, as always, Ms Phoolwati is sitting motionless with her fruit baskets. The cobbler behind her is lying sprawled on his pavement stall, asleep. A pedestrian has paused by her stall while reading a newspaper, as if he has suddenly come across some news of great importance. It is a rare moment on the road in the background - there is almost no traffic. The scene is like a photograph. Moments later, a man appears, trying to leap over the tall metal fence on the divider.Ms Phoolwati is facing a new high-rise whose construction finished during the pandemic. The immediate landscape includes an old tree that fell by the wayside some months ago. So much has changed, she observes. Before the coronavirus reshaped our world, her stall teemed with office-goers. “Since the pandemic [arrived], I only sell half of what I used to sell,” she mutters, agreeing that perhaps many of her previous customers are nowadays working remotely from home.Ms Phoolwati commutes daily from her home in Khichdipur, renting an auto to carry all the fruits. Her day begins at four in the morning, and two hours later, she is at the wholesale Azadpur subzi mandi to buy fresh fruits. She sets up her stall by ten. She returns home 12 hours later.Ms Phoolwati lives with her retired husband. Her two sons reside nearby with their families. “In the morning, my chhoti bahu (younger daughter-in-law) prepares lunch for me. In the evening, my badi bahu (elder daughter-in-law) prepares dinner for me and my husband.”Despite her advanced years, the fruit seller hasn’t considered retiring from work “because it’s important to earn money as long as one can”.In the following ten minutes, no customer arrives. Ms Phoolwati remains still as a statue. And what goes on in her mind during such spare moments? “Kya kahe (what to say),” she says, smiling faintly.She shows her hands. They justify her name. The palms are tattooed with tiny phool, or flowers||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhiwale-a-living-landmark-for-40-years-101639182865825.html
11-12-2021||Delhi||EDMC seals 3 liquor stores for violations||The East Delhi Municipal Corporation on Friday sealed three liquor outlets for alleged violations of building bye-laws.The civic body’s mayor Shyam Sunder Aggarwal said the units in Dilshad Garden’s C Block DDA market and GTB Enclave were operating in properties that had illegal constructions and violated the unified building bye-laws (UBBL).“There were a total of 11 DDA shops which were illegally amalgamated to make three bigger liquor outlets. Our teams have sealed shut the premises of all the 11 shops covering the three liquor outlets. Our teams will continue to check the violations related to building bye-laws, property taxes, conversion charges and other municipal regulations in liquor shops in east Delhi,” Aggarwal said.The civic body has constituted four teams to survey 200 liquor shops in the trans-Yamuna areas, a senior official informed.“A total of 65 notices have been issued to various liquor shops asking them to submit the documents related to site-plans, property taxes and conversion charges,” Aggarwal said.Sanjeev Mishra, the Deputy Commissioner of Shahdara North zone said, “All these shops were built and allotted by DDA to separate individuals. The separating walls had been broken down and the properties merged without any approval.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/edmc-seals-3-liquor-stores-for-violations-101639182370827.html
11-12-2021||Delhi||Sisodia to address Dubai education summit today||Deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia will represent Delhi at a three-day education summit in Dubai where the state government’s Entrepreneurship Mindset Curriculum (EMC) will be discussed.Sisodia, who holds the education portfolio, will be joined by education ministers of other countries such as Estonia, Italy, Bangladesh and Saudi Arabia. He is expected to share the various changes that the Delhi government has introduced in the field of education in the past few years, including the EMC curriculum.Introduced in 2019, the EMC curriculum is designed to train students to work in teams, brainstorm and identify social challenges or business opportunities.During the summit, which starts on Saturday, Sisodia will also discuss bilateral partnerships on the exchange of education between Delhi and Britain.“After preparing world-class infrastructure in Delhi’s government schools, the Delhi government has worked towards developing a growth mindset in children,” said a press release issued by the Delhi government on Friday.It added that Sisodia will share these new innovations among other mindset curriculums introduced by it with academicians, bureaucrats, and politicians from all across the world during the summit.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/sisodia-to-address-dubai-education-summit-today-101639182089695.html
11-12-2021||Delhi||Delhi: Cellphone racket busted, three held||The Delhi Police on Friday said they have recovered 155 cellphones from three members of an interstate gang that purchased stolen phones from snatchers and thieves in Delhi-NCR, unlocked and changed their International Mobile Equipment Identity (IMEI) numbers, and sold them to clients in southern Indian states.The three men, including a resident of Mumbai, were arrested from Delhi between December 7 and 8, the police said.“Two laptops and connectors that the suspects used to unlock and change the IMEI numbers of the stolen phones were recovered from the arrested men. A total of 22 cases of snatching and 27 theft cases have been solved with the recovery of the stolen phones and the arrest of the trio by our district’s special staff team,” said deputy commissioner of police (east) Priyanka Kashyap.The arrested men were identified as Sidharth Singh,21, from Mumbai, and two residents of Bijnor (UP) Luckman,29, and Salman,25.DCP Kashyap said in the wake of the several snatching, robbery, the special staff team was asked to nab the criminals. The team put the stolen phones on electronic surveillance and found that many of them were active in southern states, and Maharashtra. It was learnt that a gang active in Mumbai and Delhi was disposing off stolen phones in far flung areas of these states. The gang is led by Sidhesh and his close aide, Sidharth Singh, who was living in Delhi’s Laxmi Nagar.“Our team caught Singh on December 7 from Shakarpur while he was leaving for Mumbai with 58 stolen phones. He disclosed that the phones were procured from Salman and Lukman, who lived in Chand Bagh area in northeast Delhi. The team conducted raids and caught the duo with 97 stole phones,” she added.During the interrogation, the police said, Singh disclosed that he worked for Sidhesh who paid him ₹30,000 per month.“Salman and Lukman purchased stolen mobile phones at prices between ₹3,000 and ₹10,000, and sold them for ₹6,000 to ₹15,000 depending upon the model,” the DCP said.
11-12-2021||Delhi||MCD staff warn of strike as talks with north corp over salaries end in deadlock||The final round of talks between an umbrella body of civic employees and the North Delhi Municipal Corporation over the non-payment of salaries for three months ended in gridlock on Friday evening. The union said thousands of municipal employees will begin an indefinite strike at the Civic Centre from Monday, demanding their salaries.The North corporation, meanwhile, has called for a meeting to be convened under mayor Raja Iqbal Singh.AP Khan, the convener of the Confederation of Municipal Corporation of Delhi Employees’ Union (CMCDEU), said North MCD officials could not provide a blueprint to regularise due payments.“The mayor and others kept making false promises throughout the meeting. They didn’t pay any attention to our pleas that the other two corporations [the south and east bodies], have already issued a circular enhancing the dearness allowances for their employees and pensioners as per orders issued by the Centre. The talks failed as they were not ready to make any promises in writing regarding pending bonuses, house rent allowance and children education allowances,” he said.North Delhi mayor Singh, however, said that all attempts are being made to make regular salary payment to its employees.“The staff members are justified in asking for their dues, and efforts were being made to pay their salaries soon. Since we are fund-starved, we have no option other than to give assurances to our employees,” he said.Chhail Bihari Goswami, leader of the North MCD house also said that the body is trying to get funds from all disbursing agencies.Meanwhile, the finance ministry called on senior north MCD officials to discuss the feasibility of transferring some of the civic body’s properties to the income tax department in a bid to ease its financial distress.“The proposal has been okayed verbally and we are expecting its written approval soon,” a North MCD official present in the meeting with the ministry said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/mcd-staff-warn-of-strike-as-talks-with-north-corp-over-salaries-end-in-deadlock-101639175151879.html
11-12-2021||Delhi||AQI in Delhi back to very poor as winds get slower||Pollution levels in Delhi got worse on Friday as winds got slower, said the India Meteorological Department (IMD), even as the weather office predicted improved air quality over the weekend.Temperatures increased marginally on the day and officials said they expect the mercury to remain stable till Monday.Recordings from the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) showed Delhi’s 24-hour average air quality index (AQI) at 4pm on Friday was 314 (very poor), worse than 289 (poor) a day earlier.“The winds were relatively slower on Thursday, because of which there was some accumulation of pollutants in Delhi. But the winds picked up from Friday afternoon, the impact of which will be visible from Friday evening. There will be a marginal improvement in air quality on Saturday, and the AQI will remain in the poor range till November 13,” said VK Soni, head of IMD’s environment and research centre.He said that winds will be strong enough to clear up pollutants till November 13, but added that the weather office expected the AQI to worsen into the ‘very poor’ zone again on November 14 and November 15, on the back of a fall in the temperature and wind speeds.An AQI between zero and 50 is considered good, 51 and 100 satisfactory, 101 and 200 moderate, 201 and 300 poor, 301 and 400 very poor, and 401 and 500 severe.“Low temperatures impact the mixing height of the atmosphere and force pollution particles to stay close to the surface,” explained Soni.The air quality forecast issued by the Union ministry of earth sciences’ early warning system said the winds on Saturday are likely to get faster and reach 8-10kmph.Meanwhile, the minimum temperature at Safdarjung, Delhi’s base station, was 9°C, up from 8.4°C on Wednesday. The maximum temperature was 23.7°C, a notch below normal.“Temperatures are likely to remain in the 7-8°C range for the next two days. Cold winds from the freshly snowed states of Jammu & Kashmir, Himachal Pradesh and Uttarakhand will blow into Delhi and keep the temperatures lower compared to what it was in the first week of December,” said a senior Met official.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/aqi-in-delhi-back-to-very-poor-as-winds-get-slower-101639174536032.html
11-12-2021||Delhi||Schools stay shut, but pollution panel may rethink building ban||Schools and educational institutions in Delhi-NCR continue to remain shut as the Commission for Air Quality Management (CAQM) is still to review its closure order issued earlier this month. The ban on construction activity, however, is set to be revisited with the Supreme Court on Friday permitting CAQM to consider requests for relaxing the construction ban in the wake of improvement in air quality.Taking up a public interest litigation (PIL) on air quality measures in the Capital, a bench, headed by chief justice of India (CJI) NV Ramana, eased its November 24 order that revived the ban on construction activities. It asked the commission to examine the pleas made by various builders and their representative bodies for resuming their work.“We are all in Delhi. We know the condition. It has just started improving. They (CAQM) can relax the conditions slowly,” observed the bench, which also comprised justices Dhananjaya Y Chandrachud and Surya Kant.The court was dealing with a bunch of applications pleading for a relaxation on the construction ban, but it declined to entertain the individual applications.“All the governments -- Centre or states, should have taken strict steps before our shouting. We never had to pass these orders. Now, if we are going to be involved in each and everything, this will never end,” remarked the bench, holding that all applications will be examined by CAQM.“We expect that the commission will look into these issues within a week,” added the court, as a clutch of senior lawyers appearing for builders and their representative bodies such as Developers and Builders Forum pressed for an expeditious review by the Commission. The court further said that CAQM may hear some of them before passing final orders, if required.The court, which had on December 3 lamented that it was sought to be portrayed as a “villain” for trying to get schools shut although it did not pass any such order, did not seek any update on reopening of schools in Delhi-NCR during the Friday hearing, nor did CAQM made any submission on this aspect.Schools in Delhi have been shut four separate times since March last year – twice owing to concerns over Covid-19, and twice in less than three weeks because of the pollution. Experts have, however, repeatedly pointed that the pollution levels are as bad indoors as they are outside, if not worse. Further, they have also flagged concerns over the mental health impact and learning gaps that the repeated interruptions have caused.The affidavit filed in the top court by CAQM cited orders issued on December 8 and 9 related to running of industrial units but it remained silent on reopening of schools even as some experts underscore concerns over learning loss due to prolonged school closure while not preventing the air crisis that young people face.“There is no fresh order by the Commission after its December 2 order which directed that all schools, colleges and educational institutions in NCR shall remain closed, allowing only online mode of education, except for the purposes of conducting examinations or practical. This technically means that there is no change in the closure order and the December 2 direction is very much in force till it is reviewed in future,” said an official, associated with the CAQM, who did not wish to be named.Air pollution levels in the national capital have improved marginally over the past week, owing primarily to stronger winds, after spiking severely earlier this month. The air quality index (AQI) improved to the ‘poor’ zone, and falling to its lowest since October 27 this year.Pollution levels did, however, worsen to the ‘very poor’ zone on December 10.After the Delhi government on December 2 closed all schools in the city due to high pollution levels, CAQM, by its order passed the same day, expanded the closure order to all of NCR. These orders came within hours of the top court pulling up the Delhi government for reopening schools on November 29, asking if it was prudent to expose young children to bad air and toxic smog while adults were still working from home.“Children have to go to schools at 6-7 in the morning in this bad weather...You have implemented work for home for the employees. So, parents work from home and children have to go to schools. What’s this?” it asked.But on December 3, the bench stressed that it did not give any direction to the effect, nor did it suggest that the Delhi government must shut schools; all it did on December 2 was to ask the Delhi government for reasons behind reopening them even as pollution levels were high.Meanwhile, CAQM’s affidavit further informed the court that the expert group set up by the Commission is in the process of finalising an air quality forecast model in terms of the air quality index, using WRF-Chem Forecasting model. WRF-Chem is the Weather Research and Forecasting (WRF) model coupled with Chemistry.“The model is envisaged to provide a 7-day forecast and outlook for subsequent 3 days (i.e., total 10-days) based on predominant surface wind direction, wind speed, mixing layer height, ventilation index etc. The system would also be able to predict 7-day air mass inflow and outflow of Delhi which would in turn help in planning suitable actions that can be taken in advance to curtail any adverse air quality scenario,” stated the affidavit.It added that a new statistical model trained on past air quality and meteorological data is also under development by the expert committee for forecasting the air quality for next few days, besides reviewing the various measures that have been proposed under the graded response action plan (Grap).On November 24, the apex court said that controlling pollution in the national capital should not be left to “an act of God”, directing the Union government to instead devise a scientific model, based on seasons and wind conditions, for taking all remedial and urgent steps in anticipation of the air quality.“There has to be a statistical model for Delhi. This is the national capital. Imagine the kind of signals we are sending to the world. You have to have a system in anticipation of how the weather is going to be. Ad hoc measures will not be good enough,” said the bench, prompting CAQM to constitute the expert committee to comply with the court orders.CAQM’s latest affidavit has also given details of coercive measures taken by its enforcement task force and the flying squads. Between December 4 and 7, a total of 1,534 sites were inspected by the flying squads and a total of 228 sites were issued notices of closure, the affidavit said.Dr Jugal Kishore, head of the department of community medicine at Delhi’s Safdarjung hospital, said the continued closure of schools due to the pollution was hampering the welfare of children.“School plays a key role in the growth and development of children, particularly younger children. Interaction of children with other children is also significant for the overall development of a child. When air pollution is an annual feature, we should direct efforts towards combating it instead of closing down schools. Closure of schools is not a solution to the pollution problem,” he said.
11-12-2021||Chandigarh||Refusal to take back defunct set-top boxes costs Ludhiana cable operator ₹4,000||Terming it guilty of deficiency in services and unfair trade practice, the District Consumer Dispute Redressal Commission, Ludhiana, has penalised a cable operator for not refunding the security amount despite non-functional set-top boxes.Soni Cable, Rishi Nagar, Ludhiana, has been directed to refund the ₹2,200 charged for the set-top boxes and also pay ₹4,000 as compensation to the complainant.In his complaint, Rakesh Kumar Singla of Rishi Nagar had submitted that he purchased two cable connections through Fastway Transmission Pvt Ltd, following which two set-top boxes were installed by Soni Cable at his house, for which he paid security of ₹1,000 and ₹1,200, respectively.However, the set-top boxes didn’t work. When he requested Soni Cable to take the set-top boxes back and refund the security amount, the cable operator refused and misbehaved with him.As no one appeared on behalf of the respondents, the hearing proceeded ex parte.In the absence of allegation of any deficiency of service, the commission dismissed the complaint against Fastway Transmission Pvt Ltd, but directed Soni Cable to refund ₹2,200 to the complainant, along with interest @7% per annum from the date of complaint till the date of actual payment. It further ordered the cable operator to pay ₹4,000 as compensation to the complainant.
11-12-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana: Spa owner in soup for not getting staff verified||A spa and massage centre owner has been booked for not getting police verification of his employees done, in violation of the commissioner of police’s orders.The accused has been identified as Mandeep Singh, owner of Feel Good Spa Centre at Ghumar Mandi.Assistant sub-inspector Sukhraj Singh, who is investigating the case, said the violation was detected during a routine checking at the spa centre.An FIR has been registered against the accused under Section 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant) of the Indian Penal Code, at the Division Number 8 Police Station.The commissioner of police had issued guidelines for spa and massage centres after some of them were found involved in flesh trade.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhianaspa-owner-in-soup-for-not-getting-staff-verified-101639170478811.html
11-12-2021||Chandigarh||Advocate, two aides booked for trying to extort ₹26 lakh from Ludhiana factory owner||Police are on the lookout for an advocate and his two accomplices who posed as policemen to extort ₹26 lakh from a factory owner.The accused have been identified as advocate Gurpreet Singh Sohal of Vishwakarma Colony, and Jasvir Singh and Rajwinder Singh, who claimed to be deputed with CIA staff-3.The victim, Harinder Singh, 54, lives in Model Town and owns a machine tools factory at Bhagwan Chowk. He told the police that he had a dispute with the in-laws of his daughter.On July 13, advocate Gurpreet Singh Sohal turned up at his factory with two men, who introduced themselves as police personnel.After making his son leave the premises, they said they could settle the dispute with his in-laws in exchange for ₹26 lakh, but would implicate him in a forgery case if he did not pay. While leaving, the trio took ₹5,000 in cash. Soon after they left, Harinder notified the police control room.He alleged that thereon, the accused kept calling his mobile phone, leaving his family terrified. As the accused knew their home address, his whole family even spent two days in a hotel to avoid them.ASI Sethi Kumar of Division Number 6 police, who is investigating the case, said they had booked the three accused under Sections 419, 384, 506 and 120-B of the Indian Penal Code following an investigation. A manhunt has been launched to arrest them.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/advocate-two-aides-booked-for-trying-to-extort-rs-26-lakh-from-ludhiana-factory-owner-101639170474081.html
11-12-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana: GLADA’s demolition drive faces opposition from property dealers||A group of property dealers and residents on Friday strongly opposed a demolition drive set to be carried out by the Greater Ludhiana Area Development Authority (GLADA).The team, led by Khushpreet Singh, GLADA officer, had visited Durga Enclave, Phase 1, near Chuharpur Road, Haibowal, to carry out a demolition drive of unapproved and unauthorised colonies, which were built after 2018.“We are in process of lodging a formal police complaint in this regard. They have no documents to show. They admit that the colonies are illegal and established after 2018 without approval. Now when the authorities were about to carry out the demolition work, they blocked the way and protested against the team due to which we had to return,” Singh said.The property dealers and residents blocked the road leading to the unauthorised colonies, not allowing authorities to carry out the demolition. The realtors and residents refused to move despite police intervention. Mandeep Singh Mani, president of the Property Dealer Association, reasoned by saying that the government was in the process of formulating a policy to approve the unauthorised colonies. Mani revealed that he, along with other property dealers, had been trying to regularise the colonies, which he admitted to have been developed after 2018, but had been facing problems with the pandemic-induced slowdown in government departments.He rued the losses suffered during the pandemic, before adding that the GLADA team decided to demolish the colonies just as the market had begun to pick up pace. Pointing out the government assurance on a one-time settlement that would regularise the buildings, he said, “We were assured that a decision in this regard will be taken during the cabinet meeting.”“Earlier too the authorities have demolished two of our colonies and today they wanted to demolish the colonies at Durga enclave. We had no option but to oppose,” Mani added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhianagladas-demolition-drive-faces-opposition-from-property-dealers-101639170469831.html
11-12-2021||Chandigarh||Juice vendor killed as SUV ploughs into shop in Khanna||A speeding SUV mowed down a juice vendor and left his two customers injured near Mandiala Kalan village in Khanna on Thursday evening. The car driver, who sped away from the spot after the accident, has been identified as Jagjit Singh of Khanna.He has been booked following a statement by Rakesh Paswan, son of the victim, Raju Paswan, a resident of Mohanpur village, Khanna.Rakesh stated that he, along with his father, used to sell fruits and fruit juice from a makeshift shop near Mandiala Kalan village on the national highway. On Friday, they were serving a woman and a man, when a speeding Mahindra Scorpio ploughed into their shop.The impact of the collision killed his father on the spot, and left their customers injured.Sub-inspector Sukhwinderpal Singh, who is investigating the case, said a case under Sections 279 (rash driving), 337 (causing hurt by an act which endangers human life, etc), 338 (causing grievous hurt by act endangering life or personal safety of others), 304-A (causing death due to negligence) and 427 (mischief causing damage to the amount of fifty rupees) of the Indian Penal Code had been registered against the accused, who will be arrested soon.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/juice-vendor-killed-as-suv-ploughs-into-shop-in-khanna-101639170461999.html
11-12-2021||Chandigarh||Irked by CM’s ‘false promises’, Ludhiana auto union steps out to protest||The Ludhiana Auto Rickshaw Works Union on Friday staged a protest at the Jagraon Bridge, accusing chief minister (CM) Charanjit Singh Channi of making false promises regarding the challan fee waiver. Led by Lakhwinder Singh Dhillon, union leader, protesters raised slogans against Channi and removed his stickers from their auto-rickshaws. They complained that no notification has been issued by the government regarding the promised waiver. Dhillon revealed that the CM had personally visited the union office at Gill Road, along with Punjab Pradesh Congress chief Navjot Singh Sindhu, on November 22, and had announced that the challan fee of all auto-rickshaws will be waived. Channi, according to the union chief, had also promised the release of impounded vehicles. “A photo-op exercise was staged and nine challans of auto rickshaw drivers were waived. But when we reached the regional transport office in the mini-secretariat, we were told that no notification to waive the challan fee has been issued by the government and officials refused to remit the challan fees. This is fleecing. Now whose word should we trust. While CM assures that our challan fee has been remitted but on the ground level things have not changed,” he said.Dhillon further revealed that officials of the transport department had sought a day’s time to resolve the matter. “We are issuing an ultimatum. If our grievances will not be redressed by tomorrow, we will stage protests and choke the roads and highways of Ludhiana district,” he later said.Meanwhile, Gurdeep Singh Gosha, president of the Youth Akali Dal (YAD), also joinedthe protesting auto rickshaw drivers. “For petty politics CM Channi has played with the sentiments of the needy. For mere few votes, he has lied to the poor auto drivers. It is unbecoming for a man who holds the chair of the CM. Either he is lying or the officials at the transport department are lying,” he said. The police, led by ACP Dharmapal, were deployed to tackle the hour-long protest. The protesters eventually returned home, but not without issuing an ultimatum of intensifying the demonstrations if the matter is not resolved by December 11.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/irked-by-cm-s-false-promises-auto-unions-step-out-to-protest-101639170459665.html
11-12-2021||Chandigarh||Cabinet minister Pargat Singh inaugurates sports ground Ludhiana’s Khakat village||Cabinet minister Pargat Singh inaugurated a sports ground at village Khakat, near Sahnewal, on Friday.The sports ground will have facilities for basketball, cricket, football, badminton, kho-kho, rope climbing and a 400-m athletics track.Punjab Youth Development Board (PYDB) chairman Sukhwinder Singh Bindra said that four more such grounds would be developed in other villages of Sahnewal area.Cabinet minister Pargat Singh said, “This was a joint initiative of Punjab Youth Development Board and Highway Industries Ltd, under corporate social responsibility of the latter.” He also appealed other industrialists to contribute for developing such sports parks in other parts of the state.Senior Congress leader Satwinder Kaur Bitti, District Education Officer Lakhvir Singh, besides a large number of area residents were present on the occasion.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/cabinet-minister-pargat-singh-inaugurates-sports-ground-ludhiana-s-khakat-village-101639170456631.html
11-12-2021||Chandigarh||Cardboard manufacturing unit gutted in Ludhiana||A fire broke out at a cardboard manufacturing unit at Saini Colony in Moti Nagar on Friday. According to Aatish Rai, the sub-fire officer, the incident took place around 7.30pm. Workers raised the alarm after they spotted flames rising from the unit. Rai said a team of firefighters eventually managed to douse the fire, which was suspected to have been caused by a short-circuit. As many as four fire tenders were used to bring the blaze under control. No injuries were reported from the site.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/cardboard-manufacturing-unit-gutted-in-ludhiana-101639170453539.html
11-12-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana man arrested for sporting ‘police’ tag on motorcycle||A motorcyclist was on Friday arrested for pasting a ‘police’ tag on his vehicle without authorisation. The accused, who has been identified as Gaurav Verma, is a resident of Mohalla Teliyan, Faridkot.Assistant sub-inspector (ASI) Ashwani Kumar stated that they noticed the man riding a motorcycle carrying the said tag at the check post near Jain Temple Chowk, Dhandran.Upon enquiry, the individual failed to give a satisfactory response, following which a case under Section 171 (wearing garb or carrying a public servant token with fraudulent intent) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) was registered at the Sadar police station.Notably, the commissioner of police had imposed a ban on pasting any tags bearing credentials of police, army and VIP positions on vehicles without authority citing the possibility of criminals taking advantage.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-man-arrested-for-sporting-police-tag-on-motorcycle-101639170451228.html
11-12-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana: Trio on bike snatches ₹3 lakh from factory worker||Hours after a factory owner was robbed of ₹9.5 lakh near Cheema Chowk, another robbery was reported in Kanganwal area on Friday evening.This time, three motorcycle-borne men snatched ₹3 lakh in cash from a factory worker.However, with the victim repeatedly changing his versions, Sahnewal police are probing the matter deeper before registering a case.Vishal Gabhria told the police that he worked at a factory in Kanganwal and used to collect payments for it. On Friday, he collected ₹3 lakh and was returning to the factory on his scooter in the evening, when three men on a motorcycle intercepted his way and threatened him to hand over the cash. When he resisted, the trio thrashed him and fled after snatching the money. As the accused left, Gabhria alerted his employer and the police.Sub-inspector Baldev Singh, station house officer (SHO), Sahnewal police station, said the factory worker was changing his statement frequently. “Eventually, he was not even sure about the number of robbers. Earlier, he stated that there were three accused and later claimed they were two. We are scanning the CCTV cameras in the area to verify his claims. Further action will be taken following the investigation,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhianatrio-on-bike-snatches-rs-3-lakh-from-factory-worker-101639170448492.html
11-12-2021||Chandigarh||Srinagar receives rains, snow in Gulmarg; nights in Kashmir continue to record sub-zero temperatures||The cold wave conditions continue in Kashmir as Srinagar last night observed the season’s coldest night. The weather office has predicted snow and rains in the union territories of Jammu and Kashmir and Ladakh from the next week.As Kashmir is witnessing sunny and foggy days, nights continued to record sub-zero temperatures in Kashmir for the fifth day on Thursday with the mercury plunging to - 2.6 °C in Srinagar which is the coldest night in the summer capital. Snow resort of Gulmarg in north Kashmir observed -6 °C.In south Kashmir, the mercury dipped to - 5.9 °C at the mountainous resort of Pahalgam in Anantnag district. It was - 4.6 °C in Awantipora, - 3.8 °C in Kupwara, -1.4 °C in Kokernag and - 2.4 °C in Qazigund. In the Union territory of Ladakh, Drass recorded bone-chilling - 16.9 °C while it was - 11 °C in Leh during the night. Director, meteorological department of J&K and Ladakh, Sonam Lotus said on Wednesday the weather will remain dry in both the Union territories till December 14. “Light to moderate snow/rain is likely at scattered places of J&K and Kargil on December 15, especially over Zojila-Drass and Zanskar area, “ he said. He said there would be no major snowfall till December 20 in both the UTs. “Warmer days and colder nights in both the UTs till December 14,” he said. The weather conditions improved in Jammu and Kashmir on Monday after a day of light rains and snow in J&K and Ladakh. Srinagar had received rains on Sunday while snow fell on mountainous areas like Gulmarg in north Kashmir and Shopian in south Kashmir. Some areas of Jammu were hit by hails. Moderate snowfall was also reported at Kargil, Zanskar and in the higher reaches of Leh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/srinagar-receives-rains-snow-in-gulmarg-nights-in-kashmir-continue-to-record-sub-zero-temperatures-101639169130276.html
11-12-2021||Chandigarh||Govt will develop Doaba as quality potato seed hub: Rana Gurjit||Punjab horticulture minister Rana Gurjit Singh on Friday said that the state government will develop the Doaba region as a potato seed hub as the soil of the area is suitable for the production of quality seed. Addressing farmers during a horticulture summit at the IK Gujral Punjab Technical University, Rana Gurjit said that Punjab has become the first state in the country to pass the Tissue Culture-Based Seed Potato Act under which the traceability and certification of potato seed was made mandatory to ensure quality control. The cultivation of potato seed increased to 78,000 hectares for the first time, he said. Under the newly introduced Fruit and Nursery Act, the minister said that registration of nurseries besides tagging and traceability will be necessary. He also announced to set up banana-ripening units and launched a subsidy scheme for poly-houses. Under the scheme, farmers will be able to avail of 90% subsidy to set up poly-houses. Terming the depletion of groundwater as alarming, he urged the horticulture department and Punjab Agricultural University to develop varieties of crops that consume less water. Director horticulture Shalinder Kaur said the farmers should opt for cash crops instead of traditional crops to enhance their income.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/govt-will-develop-doaba-as-quality-potato-seed-hub-rana-gurjit-101639169008851.html
11-12-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab polls: Cong finetunes Malwa strategy with Moosewala’s induction||Chandigarh : When controversial Punjabi singer Sidhu Moosewala joined the ruling Congress last week, the party laid out the red carpet for him. The 28-year-old singer, whose real name is Shubhdeep Singh Sidhu, was inducted in the presence of chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi, Punjab Congress president Navjot Singh Sidhu, Punjab affairs in-charge Harish Chaudhary and several other party leaders in Chandigarh in the full glare of publicity. Both Channi and Sidhu sang paeans to the “Youth Icon” with the former calling it a “revolutionary day in state politics.” He accompanied three of them to Delhi and met former Congress president Rahul Gandhi the same evening. Big hit among youth Being touted as a “prized catch” by the Congress ahead of the state polls, Moosewala is a big hit among the youth and his fan following of nearly 10 million subscribers on YouTube and 7 million followers on Instagram is matched by very few singers. The party plans to make full use of his popularity and ability to pull in the crowds to connect with the youth in the Malwa region, according to party leaders familiar with the development. Accused of promoting violence through his songs However, his grand entry has surprised and shocked many, including some in the ruling party. The reason: he comes with baggage – a history of violent songs that allegedly promote gun culture and radicals. Last year, the rapper was booked for promoting violence and guns through his song “Sanju”. He was earlier booked under various provisions of the Arms Act and the Disaster Management Act in Barnala after his photographs of firing an AK-47 rifle at a firing range during the Covid lockdown surfaced on social media. In one of the songs last year, the singer also hailed militant preacher Jarnail Singh Bhindranwale triggering a controversy. The opposition parties and experts have been quick to lash out at the Congress for the induction with BJP general secretary Tarun Chugh dubbing the Congress support to “such criminal elements” as a warning bell for the state. Guru Nanak Dev University’s former head of political science department Professor Jagrup Singh Sekhon says this exposes their (Congress’) lack of commitment to ideology and their internal contradictions. “They (Congress) just want to win the elections. Moosewala may pull in crowds and help them get some votes, but what about the ideology of the party and its leaders. They talk about a cultural commission to curb the glorification of arms in Punjabi songs, but then take someone indulging in the same. This is the crisis in politics,” he says, questioning BJP MP and actor Sunny Deol’s contribution in the same vein. Resentment in section of Cong Also, the joining of Moosewala has led to resentment among a section of the leaders in Mansa district which was visible at the Congress rally in the area on Friday – the first party event attended by the singer, when a group of party workers protested against him in the chief minister’s presence. But the Congress sees Moosewala as worth the risk, and critical to its electoral plans in Mansa, to which the singer belongs, and the adjoining districts of Barnala, Sangrur and Bathinda, to counter the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) whose state chief, comedian-turned-political Bhagwant Mann, is also a huge draw. Though the Congress had won a two-thirds majority in the 2017 state polls, its performance in Mansa and Barnala, where it drew a blank, was nothing to write home about. The party also faced stiff competition from the AAP in Bathinda and Sangrur districts. “Moosewala is hugely popular among the youth who admire him. In his songs, he talks about correcting the system. It is gain for the party,” says Surinder Dalla, media adviser to Punjab Congress chief Navjot Singh Sidhu, fobbing off the criticism. May be fielded from Mansa The singer’s accessibility to his fans and the support he gave to farmers during their protest at Delhi’s borders against the three farm laws are also being cited as pluses for him. There is already talk in Congress circles that he may be fielded from Mansa – a seat that the party has won only once in the past five elections. “We have nothing to lose. Sitting MLA Nazar Singh Manshahia has already joined the Congress from the AAP and Moosewala’s entry will also give a boost to our prospects, irrespective of who gets the ticket,” argues another Congress leader. While the rapper surely has the pull to draw crowds at rallies, no one seems sure if it will translate into anything substantive on the ground. Before him, several other Punjabi singers, stage performers and celebrities – Bhagwant Mann, Hans Raj Hans, Mohammad Sadique, Jassi Jasraj and Gurpreet Ghuggi, to name a few – have taken the political plunge but only a few have got success. Celebrities who took political plunge Mann is a two-time MP from Sangrur and the most popular state leader of the AAP in Punjab, whereas Sadique became a legislator from Bhadaur in his electoral outing in 2012 and then got elected to Lok Sabha from the Faridkot reserved constituency in 2019. Hans, who comes from the Valmiki community, joined the SAD and contested the Lok Sabha election from Jalandhar in 2009, but lost. When he was denied the ticket in 2014, the singer-politician joined the Congress. Hans got his first taste of electoral success with the BJP – the party he joined five years ago, which fielded him from the North West Delhi Lok Sabha seat in 2019. Ghuggi and Jasraj, on the other hand, had short and unsuccessful stints. Only time would tell what course Moosewala’s political career charts in Punjab politics.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-polls-cong-finetunes-malwa-strategy-with-moosewala-s-induction-101639168827639.html
11-12-2021||Chandigarh||Jailed in UK for 34 years, dera head assassin honoured at Akal Takht||Rajinder Singh, who served 34 year-jail in the United Kingdom for the assassination of Birmingham-based sect head Maharaj Darshan Das, was honoured at the Akal Takht in Amritsar on Friday. The founder of the sect and two of his disciples were gunned down by two armed men during an assembly at Southall in 1987.A section of Sikhs was upset over the statements and activities of Maharaj Darshan who was also a trenchant critic of secessionism in Punjab and even organised rallies against it. Rajinder, who along with one Manjit Singh was convicted in the case, returned to India few days ago.On Friday, Akal Takht acting jathedar Giani Harpreet Singh and the Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (SGPC) president Harjinder Singh Dhami honoured him and his family with siropas (robes of honour) during a special function. “I am lucky to be honoured at the Takht,” said Rajinder.Speaking on the sidelines of the event, Giani Harpreet Singh said, “The community remembers those who made sacrifices. Rajinder Singh also made an immense sacrifice. With the efforts of the sangat in the UK and other organisations, he was recently released from jail.”Dhami said, “The Sikhs won’t tolerate derogatory remarks against the Gurus.”
11-12-2021||Chandigarh||SGPC to honour farmer leaders at Golden Temple on Dec 13||The Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (SGPC) will honour the leaders of farmer unions at the Golden Temple where they will pay obeisance on December 13.The decision was taken during the SGPC’s executive committee meeting chaired by president Harjinder Singh Dhami who expressed satisfaction over the success of the year-long agitation against the Centre’s three farm laws. “The SGPC supported the farmers during the agitation and would continue to stand with them in future also,” said Dhami, while briefing the media.He said simple langar would be served by the SGPC to commemorate the martyrdom fortnight of the sahibzadas (sons) of Guru Gobind Singh, the tenth guru, from December 21 to 30. During this period, sweets will not be made in langar in the gurdwaras, he said. Dhami said that under construction Baba Banda Singh Bahadur Museum at Gurdwara Fatehgarh Sahib will be completed soon and dedicated to the community.“Also, a committee has been set up to look after the historic Jahaj Haweli of Diwan Todar Mal. Negotiations would also be held for the disposal of the case pending in the high court about the haweli and steps would be taken to preserve it,” he added.To pay lawyers’ fees in Davinderpal Bhullar caseThe SGPC president said that they have also approved to pay the fees of lawyers contesting the case of terror convict Davinderpal Singh Bhullar.On Punjab chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi meeting Akal Takht acting jathedar Giani Harpreet Singh demanding authorisation to all channels to telecast gurbani kirtan live from the Golden Temple, he said, “The CM should mind his own business and not interfere in religious matters.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/sgpc-to-honour-farmer-leaders-at-golden-temple-on-dec-13-101639168408822.html
11-12-2021||Chandigarh||Jammu and Kashmir reports 173 fresh Covid infections, one death; highest cases in Srinagar||Jammu and Kashmir reported 173 fresh Covid-19 infections on Friday and a death was reported from Kashmir, an official health bulletin said. Of the total cases, 129 cases were reported in Kashmir valley and while the Jammu division saw 44 infections. Kashmir reported the highest 59 cases in summer capital Srinagar followed by 25 cases in Jammu and 17 in Baramulla district and 12 in Budgam district. Srinagar district has the highest number of active cases at 570 followed by Baramulla and Jammu districts with 234 and 187 active cases, respectively.The number of patients who were cured in the UT was 250 with active positive cases reaching 1,618.The government’s daily health bulletin also said that 57,092 vaccine doses were administered taking overall doses administered in the UT to 1.7204 crores.The overall number of people who have recovered reached 3,32,455 prompting the recovery rate to reach 98.19%. Since the pandemic started, the overall cases in J&K have reached 3,38,563 and the death toll has reached 4,490.The officials said that 58,781 tests were conducted in the past 24 hours in the UT.The Jammu district has the highest number of 1,153 fatalities followed by Srinagar with 870 deaths.Covid trackerTotal cases: 3,38,563Total recovered patients: 3,32,455Total Deaths: 4,490Active cases: 1,618||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/jammu-and-kashmir-reports-173-fresh-covid-infections-one-death-highest-cases-in-srinagar-101639168290109.html
11-12-2021||Other||2 cops killed in militant attack in Kashmir’s Bandipora district||Two J&K policemen were killed in north Kashmir’s Bandipora town when militants attacked a police party at a busy market.Police said militants targeted a police party at Gulshan Chowk in Bandipora on Friday evening and in the exchange of fire two policemen were injured and referred to hospital where both succumbed to their injuries.Officials said that two to three militants could be involved in the attack on the police party.A Police spokesman said that militants fired upon a police party at the Gulshan Chowk area of Bandipora. “In this terror incident, two police personnel were killed,” he said.The policemen who were killed in the attack were identified as selection grade constable Mohammad Sultan and constable Fayaz Ahmad.Soon after the attack, senior Army and police officers reached the spot and the forces launched a cordon and search operations in the area to search the militants responsible for the attack.BJP J&K spokesman Altaf Thakur condemned the attack on the police.“The killing of two policemen who were on duty is barbaric and highly condemnable and those responsible for the attack should be identified,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/2-cops-killed-in-militant-attack-in-kashmir-s-bandipora-district-101639168230286.html
11-12-2021||Chandigarh||Protesting roadways unions to meet Punjab CM on Dec 14, to continue strike for now||Representatives of the protesting contractual employees of the Pepsu Road Transport Corporation (PRTC), Punjab roadways and Punbus will meet Punjab chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi and transport minister Amrinder Singh Raja Warring on December 14.The employees, however, refused to end their indefinite strike that entered fourth consecutive day till a positive outcome of the meeting. They are demanding regularisation of job as promised by the state authorities in a meeting held on October 12.The bus services remained largely affected in different parts of the state on Friday as well, causing inconvenience to the general public. A heavy rush was witnessed at bus stand and bus stops. Passengers were seen hiring private taxis to reach their destinations.Nearly 90% of buses were remained parked at bus stands. Only 10% of the PRTC’s fleet of 1,100 buses operated on routes. Harkesh Singh Vicky, vice-president of the Roadways and PRTC Contractual Employees Union, said the government is regularising the jobs of contractual staff of the education and other departments but there was no policy for those working on contractual and outsourcing basis with the transport department.“Moreover, the government is threatening to sack us. The authorities are appointing untrained staff to run and operate buses,” he added.The transport department has directed the managements of state transport undertakings to deploy regular staff, presently doing desk jobs, on field duties to minimise the impact of the ongoing strike.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/protesting-roadways-unions-to-meet-punjab-cm-on-dec-14-to-continue-strike-for-now-101639168227939.html
11-12-2021||Chandigarh||Gone in 15 seconds: Ludhiana industrialist robbed of ₹9.5 lakh outside his factory||In yet another broad daylight robbery in the city, six masked men assaulted an industrialist and snatched his bag containing ₹9.5 lakh and two Apple iPhones outside his factory at RK Road near Cheema Chowk on Friday morning.The crime, which was captured in the hosiery factory’s CCTV camera, was executed in mere 15 seconds as the victim, Radhey Mohan Thapar, arrived with his driver in the morning.Thapar told the police that he had left his house at Aggar Nagar extension to reach his factory around 8.30am as per routine. One of his employees left with his lunch bag from the car’s back seat, while he was carrying a bag containing ₹9.5 lakh and two mobile phones.As he proceeded to step inside the factory gate, someone hit him in the neck with a blunt weapon, causing him to fall on the floor. Meanwhile, another man snatched his bag containing the cash and mobile phones, and fled.He immediately informed the police about the incident. Driver’s role under scannerOn reaching the spot and examining the CCTV footage, the role of the victim’s driver came under scanner, as he did not react to the crime at all.As his employer was attacked and injured, he never alighted from the car or try to chase the robbers. He is being questioned.Money was meant for employees’ salariesThapar said he had withdrawn the cash from his bank on Thursday to pay his employees’ salaries, which were handed out on 10th and 25th of every month. Therefore, he brought the large sum of money to the factory on Friday morning.Investigators said it appeared that the robbers had been following the factory owner, aware of the money’s presence in the car, and attacked him as soon he stepped out of the vehicle to enter the factory. The robbers arrived on two motorcycles – a Honda Splendor and Bajaj Pulsar. One of them kept his bike running, while two others attacked Thapar. Meanwhile, their three accomplices also turned up on another bike, and all of them sped away within 15 seconds after executing the crime. Additional deputy commissioner of police (ADCP, City 4) Rupinder Kaur Sra said a case of robbery had been registered against the unidentified robbers at the Moti Nagar police station. The police are scanning other CCTV cameras installed on the roads taken by the robbers to chase the victim and flee.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/gone-in-15-seconds-ludhiana-industrialist-robbed-of-rs-9-5-lakh-outside-his-factory-101639168169505.html
11-12-2021||Chandigarh||Himachal logs 54 Covid cases; highest infections in Kangra||Himachal Pradesh recorded 54 fresh Covid-19 infections on Friday, taking the state’s case tally to 2,27,859. However, no death was reported on Friday. The highest 19 cases were reported from Kangra, 10 in Una, nine in Shimla, eight in Hamirpur, four in Solan, three in Bilaspur and one in Mandi. The active dropped to 651 while the recoveries have reached 2,23,349 after 75 people recuperated. In terms of the number of cases, Kangra is the worst hit among all 12 districts logging 52,105 cases since the virus outbreak. It is followed by Mandi with 32,015 cases and Shimla with 28,012 cases. TRACKER Total Cases: 2,27,859Recoveries: 2,23,349Deaths: 3,842Active: 651||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/himachal-logs-54-covid-cases-highest-infections-in-kangra-101639168167059.html
11-12-2021||Chandigarh||HT Readers’ take: Make fitness your new mantra||Yoga and meditation sessions Lifestyle diseases have become a major contributor in rise of lifestyle diseases. All of us should help in reducing the frequency of such diseases in City Beautiful. Authorities must organise yoga and meditation sessions in the lungs of the city- the neighbourhood parks and gardens. Moreover, each of us should turn towards healthy food and shun all junk food. Saikrit Gulati, ChandigarhHealthy lifestyle necessary in times of pandemicPeople must adopt an active lifestyle to stay fit. It’s not necessary to go strenuous exercise regimes, just 45 minutes of light exercise a day and healthy food can help keep the doctor away. Just one person resolving to get fit and healthy, can change the lifestyle of the whole family. We need to turn the lens on fitness, especially in these trying times of the pandemic. Shubham Dhiman, via emailJunk food a major concernResidents of the tricity are more health conscious than those in other cities. Luckily for them, they also have a range of facilities, including parks, green belts, gyms etc at walking distance from their homes. The only problem here is the consumption of junk food and inactive lifestyle, especially among children who spend long hours in front of mobile and computer screens. Schools could go a long way in enforcing healthy lifestyle values among children.DS Banati, Mohali Regular check-ups mustSadly, despite living in city with a luxurious lifestyle, people here are losing out on the health quotient. People need to adopt healthier habits, such as going for exercise and morning walks. They must also avoid fast food and carbonated drinks. Regular check-ups can help detect any underlying issues at an early stage. People should start by preparing a time-table for sleep, exercise and meals. Sumesh Kumar Badhwar, MohaliMake simple changes Lifestyle diseases such as diabetes and hypertension can be prevented or at least controlled by following some simple measures, such as regular workout, brisk walking, cycling, and shunning fast food. People can make simple switches in the lifestyle, such as using cycles instead of cars for commute. Using the stairs instead of the lift and playing in the park instead of on computers.Som Gupta, PinjoreAwareness campaigns can helpHectic lifestyles have increased the prevalence of diseases such as hypertension, diabetes and obesity among residents, which is especially worrying in times of the pandemic. The need of the hour is to start public awareness campaigns and encourage people of all age groups to take up physical activities, such as morning & evening walks, exercise, yoga, & meditation. Rather, it should be made compulsory for all age groups. Further, there is need to control consumption of fast food.Col TBS Bedi (retd), MohaliCatch them youngCity beautiful is blessed with green belts and large areas under forest cover, but ironically, many among us are unmoved by this ‘privilege’ and ‘pleasure’. Schools and colleges should have health and fitness programmes so that students can be taught the importance of a healthy lifestyle at a young age. Parents must also discourage children from excessive use of mobile phones for gaming and entertainment. Instead, they should be encouraged to take up cycling, swimming and other such activities. Shammi Bhatia, via emailCommunity health initiativesEducational institutes, local authorities and residents’ welfare associations must work together and get people to adopt an active lifestyle by organising sports events every weekend. This will not only encourage people to take up physical activities but also habour community bonding. Apart from this, dietitians should visit localities to guide residents about healthy eating.Amanpreet Kaur Bains, KuraliPlanned city, sedentary lifestyleWell-planned cities like Chandigarh which have markets, schools etc in each sector contributes to lesser physical activity. Poor public transport also leads to people sticking to personal vehicles, such as cars and two-wheelers. This means the chances of them walking or cycling to their destination, is much lower. Most adults in the city rarely use bicycles, and don’t encourage their children to do so either. Home-delivery services also make it possible for residents to get on with life without stepping out of their homes. Administration needs to organise events such as marathons etc to get residents to stay active.Abhilasha Gupta, MohaliPersonal choice, but community initiatives A healthy lifestyle is a personal choice. But authorities can encourage that among the masses by organising awareness programmes, community health events etc. Steps such as increasing the tax on junk food items can also help discourage its consumption to some extent. Ensuring there are parks and gyms at all walking distance from residential areas can also help people stay motivated to stick to their fitness regimes. Programmes and advertisements on lifestyle diseases and how to prevent them can also make people adopt healthier habits. Prabhjot Nagpal, ZirakpurJunk food, alcohol and smoking poison for the bodyHealth experts say that sedentary lifestyle and unhealthy diet are responsible for many diseases. With availability of gadgets, physical activity has substantially decreased. Ready-to-cook junk food seems to satisfy the palate but is harmful for our health. Late-night dinners, alcohol, smoking are the worst enemies of the heart and lungs. As far as possible, one must stick to home-cooked, healthy food and also take up as much physical activity as possible. Usha Verma, ChandigarhYoga, the time-tested solutionA large number of lifestyle diseases can be prevented by making yoga the way of life. Spend just a few minutes of your morning practicing this age-old technique and you can be assured of a healthy life. Consuming neem and tulsi will also help keep the diseases at bay. Strong immunity is a must in these times of Covid-19. Harnam Singh, MohaliZero physical activityTechnology has no doubt enhanced our productivity, ability and efficiency but at the same time, it has also led to a sedentary lifestyle. With the pandemic lockdowns, taking much of our work, education and even entertainment online, the chances of physical activity has reduced even more. Residents of Chandigarh don’t even take part in simple household chores such as cooking or cleaning, and have domestic helps to care of it. A major chunk doesn’t even go for walks or mild exercise. Yasmin D Khosla, PanchkulaParents, set a good example for kidsUnhealthy eating habits, lack of exercise and little physical activity poses a public health hazard. Administration must step in by developing parks, gardens and gyms for the public. Institutions like schools, colleges and universities must motivate children on healthy habits and compulsory physical activity must be a part of the curriculum. Parents must also follow healthy habits to set an example for new generations. Healthy youth will lead to a healthy future of the nation.Garv Bhupesh, PanchkulaGovts need to be the driving forceWhile results of the national family health survey are mixed, there have been radical improvements in maternal and child health, sex ratio and population control. Other areas, such as childhood nutrition where marginal gains are deemed insufficient, and require renewed corrective efforts. Rising figures of anaemic women and children since 2015-16 points to the need for improving the food security and nutrition supplementation schemes. The broader message is that resources that the state and society need for healthier lives will only come if governments deliver consistent and high economic growth. Sanjay Chopra, MohaliPrevention is better than cureThe rate of incidence of cancer in the city is alarming. Sedentary lifestyle, poor dietary habits and alcoholism are behind most diseases. Besides, with temperatures dipping, people will bring down physical activity. It is paramount that people take preventive measures and improve their lifestyle before it is too late. SK Khosla, ChandigarhMake use of your neighbourhood parkChandigarh is famous for its parks and green spaces. But sadly, over the last decade, its use has come down drastically. Now, instead of parks, people go to gyms for strenuous physical fitness regimes. People also use to take pride in bringing home-cooked food. Now, they are opting for junk food packed in plastic. We need to bring back the habits of the years gone by, so as to preserve our health as much as we can. The administration can also do its bit by encouraging cycling etc, by way of introducing more cycle tracks.Avinash Goyal, ChandigarhLimit screen timeFirst and foremost, limit your screen time and time spent on social media. Instead, make time for a walk in the nature, bird watching, dance, light exercise and other such activities that will bring down your stress levels and also improve your physical health. Secondly, families must resolve to restrict the consumption of junk food. Improve your sleep and meal schedule, and during work, take at least 10 minutes off to walk around. A hectic lifestyle that leaves no time for your health and family is of no use. Nishu Aggarwal, PanchkulaWalk, practice yogaLifestyle diseases such as obesity are more pronounced in affluent families because they lead a sedentary life, which makes them quite lethargic. Regular walks and yoga can help bring down diseases such as hypertension. Shed lethargy and keep away from junk food, and good health will knock on your doors. SC Luthra, ChandigarhA generation at riskHealth is not gained in a day. People in general should improve their lifestyle by following healthy eating habits. Incorrect and wrong eating timings, job stress, little physical exercise, lack of awareness about healthy habits is making our generations unhealthy. Administration can facilitate by providing parks, gyms and other facilities but it is our prime responsibility to follow and improve our lifestyles by following healthy habits. Anju Mohan, PanchkulaAct before the situation gets out of handDiseases, such as diabetes, hypertension, heart diseases, joint paints, vision problems and teeth decay, are rising among today’s population due to poor lifestyle habits. The UT as well as the states of Punjab and Haryana need to improve their public health policies, and work to bring down the incidence of lifestyle diseases. Preventive measures and awareness are the only way to control the problem before it gets out of hand. P Mehta, via emailHealth is wealthChandigarh suffers from high incidence of lifestyle diseases, such as diabetes, heart-attack and hypertension. The government must take serious note of this. Lack of awareness, unhealthy eating habits, zero or little exercise are the main reason behind this. Awareness about achieving fitness through cycling, brisk walking, avoiding junk food, consuming healthy food should be spread among the masses. Subhash Chugh, via emailMake use of mass media to promote fitnessPeople should start educating their kids about staying away from junk food to prevent obesity and diabetes in the long run. To encourage physical activities among residents, the authorities must organise workshops and events such as marathons from time to time. We are lucky to have open-air gyms in our neighborhood parks, but sadly these have not been put to use due to the pandemic. Each sector must hire trainers to give fitness tips to the residents. Mass media such as FM Radio etc can also play a huge role in encouraging fitness. Vikas, via emailForced to stay indoorsMany non communicable diseases are on account of lifestyle and occupational habits. The pandemic has also contributed to a large extent in the rise of lifestyle diseases such as diabetes, obesity, hypertension etc. People were forced to stay indoors and there was no scope of any outdoor activities. Children were the most affected due to the closure of the schools. The screen time has also led to sleep and mental disorders. It is high time that we realise the importance of our health. We have to stop eating junk food and move towards more nutritious and healthy food. Daily walk, exercise, meditation and yoga can lead to better health. Anil Kumar Yadav, ChandigarhEmployers, it’s your responsibility tooLong working hours are also one of the contributors to lifestyle diseases. Employers must encourage their staff to have 30 minutes of yoga/ exercise break in between the shift. And parents, must make sure that their children limit the screen time and junk food consumption.Chander Vij, via emailPolitical will for public health initiativesLow political will, institution corruption and resource mismanagement also contribute to poor implementation of public health programmes. Public health promotion can be seen as the whole process of enabling or empowering people to increase control over and improve their overall health. It focuses on creating awareness of health issues, engendering behavior modification. To promote good health (physical, mental and social well-being), authorities must do whatever it takes to help people work towards better health. Social media platforms like WhatsApp and blogs can be very potent in this regardVineet Gandhi, ChandigarhReader of the week Success stories of others can help stay motivatedWe can’t force someone to leave their comfort zone, but success stories of those who have been able to turnaround their lifestyle for good can motivate others to adopt healthier habits. As a community, marathons, health camps etc can help us stay motivated towards our fitness goals. But it is upon the individual to work towards a healthy lifestyle. Kiran Bala, MohaliWhat experts sayLifestyle changesOne should avoid trans fats and eat dinner on time. Also, non-diabetic people can fast frequently. Besides this, it is important to do physical activities to lifestyle diseases.Dr Sanjay Bhadada, HOD, endocrinology, PGIMERHealthy eatingPeople should avoid junk and processed food and have more of green veggies, fresh fruits, calcium and fiber-rich food. Eat small portions at regular intervals and exercise at least five time a week for 45 mins. Dr KP Singh, director, endocrinology dept, Fortis Hospital, Mohali Reduce stressTo control lifestyle diseases, people will have to increase physical activities and start using facilities, such as cycling tracks and parks, available in the city. People must also try to reduce stress by doing relaxing activities like yoga. Also, say no to fast food and trans fats.Dr Harinder Bali, cardiologistYoga and exerciseAdopting exercise and yoga early in life can potentially alleviate the prevalence of preventable diseases such as hypertension, obesity, diabetes, depression and anxiety.Prof Akshay Anand, in-charge CCRYN centre for mind, body interventions by yoga, PGIMER Get activeI think people have become very lazy nowadays. They think by just consulting dieticians they can attain fitness. Ideally people should be spending one hour everyday doing running, playing some sport, brisk walking, or performing yoga and exercise. Opinder Kaur Sekhon, veteran athlete||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ht-readers-take-make-fitness-your-new-mantra-101639168112743.html
11-12-2021||Chandigarh||Shimla: Gen Bipin Rawat’s alma mater St Edward’s School pays glowing tributes to him||St Edward’s School in Shimla paid glowing tributes to its most proficient alumnus General Bipin Rawat, Chief of Defence Staff (CDS), who died in the Indian Air Force’s Mi-17V5 chopper crash along with his wife Madhulika Rawat and 11 others near Tamil Nadu’s Coonoor. The school remembered Rawat as it’s one of the most brilliant students. The school organised special prayers meeting which was attended by students, teachers and old students of the school. School principal Anil Wilson Sequeira reminisced Gen Rawat’s promise to be the chief guest at the school annual function. He studied in Edward’s from 1971 to 1973 when his father was posted in Shimla. Gen Rawat had visited his alma mater in 2019 along with his wife Madhulika Rawat. He motivated students to join the Army. Principal of St Edward’s Anil Wilson Sequeira while addressing the prayer meeting said the school had planned interaction with General Rawat on March 9, 2022, which is the founder’s day of the school. “This void will never be filled and the school will miss the motivation of General Rawat. We will miss him forever,” he said. “During his visit in 2019, he visited here and without any care for protocol, he went to the canteen and met the support staff that shows how down-to-earth he was. I will remember this incident of humility forever,” Sequeira said General Rawat had planned a get-together with his old batch mates, but he could not turn up for the event due to some professional reasons. “All students of the 1973 batch had planned a get together to relive their old days that they spent together in British-era schools,” said Brij Mohan Chauhan, Rawat’s school friend and a childhood friend. He recalls him as a simple and brilliant student. Raja Bhasin, a historian who accompanied Gen Rawat for a ‘heritage walk’ in Shimla, remembers him as somebody who had an interest in knowing the history of Shimla and its heritage building. “General Rawat, his wife Madhulika and I walked across the town for two hours in 2019. He was a down-to-earth person. He was curious to know everything about Shimla,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/shimla-gen-bipin-rawat-s-alma-mater-st-edward-s-school-pays-glowing-tributes-to-him-101639168110482.html
11-12-2021||Chandigarh||Himachal assembly: Congress brings no-confidence motion against government, rejected||Noisy scenes were witnessed in the Himachal Pradesh assembly for a brief period on Friday after the Opposition Congress moved a no-confidence motion against chief minister Jai Ram Thakur-led BJP government in the state, only to be rejected by the speaker for want of required one-third number of members.After the obituary references to the CDS General Bipin Singh Rawat and three former members, who passed away recently, Speaker, Vidhan Sabha, Vipin Singh Parmar said he had received a no-confidence motion notice by the opposition members under Rule 278 of the Rules of Procedure and Conduct of Business in Himachal Pradesh legislative assembly.The speaker then asked the Leader of the Opposition to move the motion.Moving the motion, Agnihotri claimed that the BJP government had lost its credibility, authority and trust of the people.He said it had been defeated in the recently held byelections to the one parliamentary constituency and three assembly constituencies. In total, 20 constituencies where polling for byelection was held lost in 12 assembly segments.“The public has rejected this government. Even it was routed in the Mandi parliamentary constituency, the home-turf of the chief minister,” he said.“It would have been better if the CM along with his cabinet colleagues had resigned and paved the way for elections in Himachal Pradesh,” he added.Agnihotri said today government employees, police personnel and jobless youth were up in arms against the BJP government as the current regime has failed to “safeguard” their interests.Even as Agnihotri was speaking, a heated exchange started between the treasury and opposition benches.Amid the pandemonium, Speaker Vipin Singh Parmar ruled that there should be on third strength in the house for the motion to be admitted for discussion.The number of members required for the motion to be approved was 23, however, the opposition had only 18 members.“Hence this motion could not be approved for discussion and thus stands rejected,” he said.At this the opposition members started raising slogans.Agnihotri claimed that the opposition had the required strength but the government was running away from the discussion.He said Congress also had the support of Communist Party of India-Marxist (CPIM) legislators. He said the notice they had given also had the signature of 23 members.However, the speaker announced the lunch. Later, speaking to the media outside the House, Agnihotri termed the move to reject the motion undemocratic as the opposition has submitted the notice for the no-confidence motion to the Vidhan Sabha speaker with the signature of 23 members.He reiterated that the BJP government had lost credibility and public trust. He said it was after the defeat in the byelections that the prices of petrol and diesel were slashed and contentious farm Bills were repealed.In the state too, the government called a meeting of the JCC and accepted their demands. He said this government had no moral right to remain in power.Agnihotri said at first the speaker allowed to move the no-confidence motion but then rejected it even though Congress had the required strength which shows that the government is running away from the discussion. 
11-12-2021||Chandigarh||Himachal assembly winter session: Jai Ram Thakur govt bows down, notifies commission for general category||Amid an aggressive protest by the general category people, the government of Himachal Pradesh on Friday notified to constitute a “Samanya Varg Aayog”.A notification to this effect was issued by governor Rajendra Vishwanath Arlekar in the evening.Earlier, in a suo motu statement made in the assembly, chief minister Jai Ram Thakur said since the assembly was in session, the government is bound to inform the house of its new policy decisions.He said that a large number of people belonging to the general category had been demanding to constitute a commission for them for long. He said that the people belonging to the community had gathered outside the assembly complex in a large number and staging a “gherao” demanding to constitute a commission for the general category. He said that the state government is committed for the welfare and uplift of all the sections of society and has launched various schemes to provide them equal opportunities to progress. Maintaining that Himachal Pradesh is known for its peaceful atmosphere, he urged people to refrain from any activity which brings a bad name to the state. “We have assured the protestors to consider their demands after studying such commissions in other states of the country. Only Madhya Pradesh had such commission for general category persons and on its basis, we announced constitution in the state too,” he said. He said that their demands would be fulfilled and at the same time government would ensure that it doesn’t hurt the sentiments of any other community. He said people should not also make any comments against other communities. Earlier, the chief minister also addressed the protesters who had reached the main gate of the assembly.For sometimes the situation became quite volatile as the government’s security arrangement seemed inadequate to stop the protestors. The police had decided to stop the protestors at Dari a few kilometres before the assembly premises.Protesters also clashed with the police and pelted them with stones in which some vehicles, including a fire engine and police car, were damaged. DGP Sanjay Kundu and DC Kangra Nipun Jindal were also stuck in the chaos. Extra force and armed police were deployed at the gate to prevent protestors to enter the assembly and prevent any untoward incident.However, in wake of the large number of protesters, they were allowed to gather at Zoravar stadium near the assembly complex.At first, eight cabinet ministers went to talk to the protesting peoplannounced to constitute the commission for general category. e. However, they refused to budge stating that they would leave only after the announcement to constitute a commission for them.Later, the chief minister addressed the protesters and ensured to consider all their demands sympathetically and also||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/himachal-assembly-winter-session-jai-ram-thakur-govt-bows-down-notifies-commission-for-general-category-101639168049994.html
11-12-2021||Chandigarh||Winter session: Himachal assembly pays tributes to Gen Bipin Rawat, former members||The winter session of the Himachal Pradesh assembly on Friday began with obituary notes to the 1st Chief of Defence Staff (CDS) General Bipin Singh Rawat, his wife Madhulika Rawat and 11 others who were killed in the chopper crash in Coonoor in Tamil Nadu.The House also paid homage to former members of the assembly GS Bali, Bodh Raj and Dr Shiv Kumar who passed away recently.Moving the condolence motion, chief minister Jai Ram Thakur said in an unfortunate incident on December 8, CDS Rawat, his wife and 11 others were killed in a helicopter crash in Coonoor. “The entire country was shocked at this tragic news. His services to the nation will always be remembered by one and all,” he said. He said Gen Rawat was appointed the 1st Chief of Defence Staff for his commitment and conviction for the country. He said even the enemies were afraid of Gen Rawat’s name. Several successful operations were conducted during his tenure as the CDS. Gen Rawat was known for his bold decisions and was conferred with various medals in his illustrious military career spanning 42 years, including PVSM, UYSM, USM, VSM and the UN Force Commendation award, said Thakur. He said he also had an association with Himachal as he got his initial education from St Edward’s School, Shimla.He said a jawan from Himachal, Lance Naik Vivek Kumar, a resident of Jaisinghpur in Kangra district, was also killed in the accident. He prayed to the almighty to grant peace to the departed souls and strength to their family members to bear the irreparable loss.Paying tribute to former members GS Bali, Bodh Raj and Dr Shiv Kumar, Thakur said all three belonged to Kangra district and their demise was a great loss to Kangra in particular and the state in general.He remembered Bali as a visionary and innovative leader who brought many reforms in the departments he headed.“He was a different kind of personality, warm-hearted and lively. Despite many controversies, he would be remembered for his services to society and this House will miss him,” said the chief minister. The Leader of Opposition Mukesh Agnihotri also expressed grief on the demise of CDS Gen Rawat, his wife and others accompanying him. It is a great loss to the country. Himachal had always played a major role in the defense forces and in this helicopter crash also one soldier from Himachal Lance Naik Vivek was among the people killed.Condoling the death of former minister GS Bali, Agnihotri remembered him as a taskmaster who got all work done that was assigned to him. As a transport minister, he introduced Volvo buses, smart cards in buses and revamped the HRTC fleet besides introducing electric buses. He said Bali also brought Ski Village project which couldn’t be implemented various reasons. He also paid tributes to former MLAs Bodh Raj and Shiv Kumar.Ministers Mahender Singh Thakur, Suresh Bhardwaj, MLAs Ram Lal Thakur, Ashish Butail, Rakesh Singha, Rajeev Bindal, Col Dhani Ram Shandil and Ravi Dhiman were among others to pay tributes to CDS Gen Rawat and former members. The House also observed a two-minute silence as a mark of respect to the departed souls.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/winter-session-himachal-assembly-pays-tributes-to-gen-bipin-rawat-former-members-101639167987998.html
11-12-2021||Chandigarh||Question Hour: No possibility of restoring old pension scheme in Himachal||There is no possibility of restoring the Old Pension Scheme (OPS) for state government employees, chief minister Jai Ram Thakur stated in a written reply laid on the table of the House. The question was jointly raised by Leader of Opposition Mukesh Agnihotri and Congress MLAs Ram Lal Thakur, Sukhwinder Singh Sukhu and Jagat Singh Negi. “The New Pension Scheme (NPS) is applicable to the Central government employees and employees of almost all the states. Therefore, it is not possible to restore the old pension at the present time,” the CM said. The estimated one-time expenditure on the implementation of the old pension scheme would be about ₹2,000 crore and the recurring expenditure per year would be about ₹ 500 crore, he added. It was also informed that a total 23,931 recruitments were made in various departments of the state government in the last three years (2018-2021). The highest 8,066 appointments were made in the education department-- 7,336 in elementary education and 730 in higher education. A total of 6,253 people were appointed in health department and 2,150 in the police. In reply to a question raised asked by Rohru legislator Mohan Lal Brakta, Jal Shakti minister Mahender Singh informed in a written reply that administrative approval of the plan for channelisation of the Pabbar river was accorded on June 26, 2015, for an expenditure of ₹190.82 crore. At present, investment clearance has been approved by the Government of India (Central Water Commission) in the 13th meeting on August 7, 2020. The project has been sent for funding under the Flood Management and Border Area Programme (FM&BAP). The commencement of this work depends on its selection in the Flood Management and Border Area Programme (FM&BAP) and the availability of adequate funds.In a reply to a question by Jubbal-Kotkhai MLA Rohit Thakur, the Jal Shakti minister informed that three MoUs were signed between the Agriculture Produce Export Development Authority (APEDA) and Himachal Pradesh Horticulture Produce Marketing and Processing Corporation (HPMC) on September 20, 2016, for the setting up three CA Stores at Kharapathar (Shimla), Patlikuhal (Kullu), and Churah (Chamba). However, due to the non-availability of grant-aid, APEDA cancelled the MoUs on November 10, 2016. The cumulative proposed cost of these CA stores was ₹20.38 crore. APEDA had given in-principle approval to provide Rs. 16.81 crore as financial assistance for the same. He said the HPMC proposes to set up CA Store in Churah at a total cost of ₹4.66 crore for which financial assistance of ₹4.18 crore has been approved by NABARD.Apart from this, under the World Bank-funded Himachal Pradesh Horticulture Development Project, a 500 metric tonnes capacity CA store and 5,600-MT grading packing house are proposed to be set up at an estimated cost of ₹16.46 crore. The cold store at Patlikuhal under the Ware House Infrastructure Fund (WIF) with the help of NABARD has been upgraded as CA Store in 2015-16. At present, there is no proposal to set up a CA store AT Khadapathar as the financial position of HPMC is not satisfactory.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/question-hour-no-possibility-of-restoring-old-pension-scheme-in-himachal-101639167929080.html
11-12-2021||Chandigarh||Akali Dal demands probe into allegations of graft for police postings against minister Randhawa||Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) on Friday accused Punjab home minister Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa of accepting “huge sums in bribes” in lieu of posting district police chiefs, particularly in the border belt of the state.In a press conference in Chandigarh, party MLA Bikram Singh Majithia referred to a meeting of the state cabinet, when minister Rana Gurjeet Singh purportedly levelled allegations against Randhawa for having taken money to post senior superintendents of police (SSPs) and officials of lower ranks. He asked chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi to come clean on the issue, alleging that he was trying to hush up the matter. “According to the allegations levelled by Rana Gurjeet Singh, the home minister took ₹2-5 crore for the postings. But he (Channi) tried to put the matter under the carpet as he asked the officers present in the meeting to leave and shut the door,” Majithia said. The matter should be probed by a central agency, he said. He alleged that Randhawa is known for patronising gangsters such as Jaggu Bhagwanpuria and Lawrence Bishnoi and even gave VIP status to UP don Mukhtiar Ansari during his tenure as jails minister. ‘My life under threat’Citing “intelligence inputs”, Majithia said his life was under threat, but the state home minister refused to take action. “Some persons who conducted a recce of my Amritsar house a few days back were nabbed with a tiffin bomb and a hand grenade. They are linked to terror outfit Khalistan Task Force (KTF),” he said. He also claimed that the police officers, who were transferred after more than 120 persons were killed in the 2018 hooch tragedy, were back to their old postings. Randhawa was not available for comments despite several attempts to reach him.When contacted, minister Rana Gurjeet refused to comment on what happened in the cabinet meeting on Thursday. Sukhbir slams CM Channi SAD president Sukhbir Singh Badal on Friday slammed CM Channi for not ordering a probe into bribe being taken by home minister Randhawa for postings of senior police officers.“It is condemnable that despite minister Rana Gurjeet made the accusation on record in a cabinet meeting, no probe was ordered,” he said talking to media after rallies of party candidates Daljeet Singh Cheema and Sunita Rani in Ropar and Balachaur.Channi cannot suppress the people of the state by resorting to “sacrilegious actions” like giving orders to play DJs loudly to drown out their voices, he said, adding that it was shocking that a CM, who boasts of listening to each and everyone, was not only running away from people, but was using the civil and police administration to stifle their voices.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/akali-dal-demands-probe-into-allegations-of-graft-for-police-postings-against-minister-randhawa-101639167926845.html
11-12-2021||Chandigarh||Culinary workshop at Chikara University||Chitkara University on Friday organised a culinary demonstration for the students of hospitality and culinary arts with chef Sambhavi Joshi. An alumna of Le Cordon Bleu, London, and founder of Casareece Artisanal Pasta, Joshi passionately talked about experimenting with flavours, ingredients, presentation and colours. She demonstrated how to make Black Pepper Fettuccine with Mushrooms and Parmesan. She interacted with the students and discussed the various types and techniques of making pasta. Pan-India contest for engg studentsSAEINDIA, a professional Society of Automotive Engineers, has announced the start of the virtual rounds of the 15th edition of BAJA SAEINDIA series (digital event). Chitkara University is hosting the virtual round. In all, 203 entries from across 185 engineering colleges of India were received, out of which 130 teams are registered for conventional m-BAJA and 73 for the e-BAJA event. The event tasks the students to conceptualise design, build, test and validate a single-seater four-wheeler. Madhu Chitkara – Pro-Chancellor, Chitkara University, Punjab added, “At Chitkara University, we believe in building a skillful society and promoting research, innovation in collaboration with industry and academic institutions. The vision of BAJA SAE INDIA and our university is in sync. We joined hands in the year 2015. As the host institute of Virtual BAJA SAE INDIA for the last 6 years, we feel proud in supporting this programme.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/culinary-workshop-at-chikara-university-101639167387720.html
11-12-2021||Chandigarh||Illegal felling of trees: Lalru MC president, former EO indicted||Mohali additional deputy commissioner Pooja Sayal has indicted municipal council president Bindu Rana and then executive officer (EO) Ashok Kumar for the illegal cutting of trees spread over 10 acres of a shamlat land in Lalru, under the Dera Bassi subdivision, last month. In her report submitted to the principal secretary, local bodies department, Punjab , Sayal stated that Rana and Kumar failed to get any approval from the MC House or permission from the forest department to cut the trees. Even the agenda was not tabled in the House, and there were no representatives from the district administration during the cutting of trees, the report mentioned. “The final report recommending action against the two will be submitted within seven days,” said Sayal.Meanwhile, present EO Jagjit Singh Sahi has written to the Lalru station house officer to register a case against the contractor for cutting the trees. The contract was given for ₹2.25 lakh, but the axed trees were worth several lakhs, it was stated.Officials were supposed to apprise me: RanaDefending herself, MC president Bindu Rana said that it was the duty of the officials to bring to her notice the absence of permissions. Accusing Dera Bassi MLA NK Sharma of playing “dirty politics”, Rana said the land in question was meant to carve out plots for homeless people. MLA NK Sharma, who belongs to the Shiromani Akali Dal, had brought the irregularities to light after visiting the spot on November 24. “The whole business was going on without the approval of the forest department. As per rules, a written assessment was to be done by the forest department before giving permission for cutting the trees from the shamlat land, after which advertisement for auctioning of trees was to be issued,” the MLA said.EO Ashok Kumar was shunted out the same day and sent to the head office in Sector 35, Chandigarh. The next day, an inquiry was marked. Even the block officer of the forest department had confirmed that the matter regarding clearance for axing the trees was not in his notice.
11-12-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh MC election: 12 independents form Azad Front||An “Azad Front” has taken shape with 12 independent candidates, mainly rebels from the Congress and Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), coming together on a common platform ahead of the Chandigarh municipal corporation election.Their target is not just upstaging the two parties in the municipal polls, but also put up a joint candidate for the Lok Sabha polls that are a couple of years away.Narinder Pal Chaudhary, a BJP rebel candidate contesting as an independent from Ward No. 26, said: “We will be helping each other in the MC elections, as we are taking on three major parties with big pockets. The support can be in terms of mobilising crowd support and sharing volunteers for each other’s campaign. So, if a contestant has Purvanchal voters in his constituency, he will bring them to the aid of the other independent candidate who needs their support in his ward.”The Congress, BJP and Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) are locked in a tight three-cornered fight. All three are facing a challenge from a number of rebel candidates.The Congress has to face the challenge from its former members who joined the AAP and SAD and got the ticket after their claims were rejected by the parent party. In the BJP, while three rebel candidates withdrew their candidature, but some candidates with a strong support base are still threatening the party’s official nominees’ winning chances.Now, with the independent candidates getting better organised, the parties are in for a stiffer challenge.Former Congress general secretary Shashi Shankar Tiwari, who resigned from the party after being denied the party ticket, said: “So far we have 12 candidates who have agreed (to join the group). But we are trying to bring more candidates on our platform. The aim is to offer city’s residents an option beyond these corrupt established parties, which have failed to deliver on their promises for so long. Both parties have been gripped by dynastic politics.”Tewari, who is also the Purvanchal Vikas Mahasangh president, said: “In the immediate future, we will work to ensure victory of independent candidates. For this, we are developing a common strategy, and a common manifesto is also under discussion. But our ultimate aim is to get an Azad Front candidate to fight the Lok Sabha election in 2024.”Notably, Tiwari himself is not contesting the election, but is coordinating the activities of the Azad Front.Tiwari named Krishan Lal (Ward No. 3), Manpreet Kaur (9), Veeru (35), Prempal Chahuan (15), Harvansh Singh (29), Sushila Pathak (10), Kripanand Thakur (20), Asha Rani (7), Mukesh Goyal (32), Sohan Singh Mauli (8), Narendra Chaudhary (26) and Parmajit Kaur (4) as the independent candidates who have come together so far.Meanwhile, Kripanand Thakur (Ward No. 20), a rebel BJP candidate, said: “We are in constant talks over different issues and helping each other. But the priority is to win the MC polls in our wards. The future course of action will only be decided after these elections. Common strategies for the grouping are still to be developed.”
11-12-2021||Chandigarh||Sippy Sidhu murder: CBI announces ₹10 lakh reward for info||The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) has announced a reward of ₹10 lakh to any person who provides credible information about the murder of national shooter and advocate Sukhmanpreet Singh, aka Sippy Sidhu, who was gunned down at a park in Sector 27, Chandigarh,on September 20, 2015. The case remains unsolved to date.A CBI sleuth privy to the investigations said that it is part of the investigations, as cash rewards can at times motivate people to provide more information and leads. This is, however, not the first time when the CBI has announced a reward in the case. A similar reward of ₹5 lakh was announced on September 6, 2016, as well. “While some calls had come in, the information hadn’t helped in advancing the case by much,” said the CBI official, on the condition of anonymity.Family confused by announcementMeanwhile, the announcement did not go down well with Sippy Sidhu’s family, who have been waiting for justice for the past six years. The victim’s younger brother Jippy Sidhu said over a phone call: “The announcement is unexpected. When the accused has been mentioned by name during the investigations, then what was the need for announcing another reward for the same information?” Jippy, who is out of town, will be returning and meeting CBI officials on Saturday to discuss the matter.After Sippy Sidhu, 36, was shot dead, his family had alleged the involvement of a judge’s daughter. The woman, reportedly a friend of Sidhu, was summoned and questioned twice by the Chandigarh Police during the initial probe. After Sidhu’s family held protests alleging that she was being shielded by police, the UT administration on January 22, 2016, recommended a CBI probe into the case.In December 2020, the CBI had informed court that it had no evidence about the woman’s involvement. The federal agency, however, added it would like to keep the investigation open as it had “strong suspicions about the role of (woman’s name hidden) to eliminate Sippy Sidhu.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/sippy-sidhu-murder-cbi-announces-10-lakh-reward-for-info-101639167161523.html
11-12-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab election: Singer Anmol Gagan Mann gets AAP ticket from Kharar||Blurb:  The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) has declared Punjabi singer Anmol Gagan Mann, 31, as its candidate from Kharar constituency in Mohali district for the Punjab Vidhan Sabha elections scheduled early next year. She has replaced suspended AAP MLA Kanwar Sandhu, who won the elections in 2017 by a margin of nearly 2,000 votes defeating former Congress cabinet minister Jagmohan Singh Kang.However, the decision has not gone down well with local AAP leaders, who have shown their resentment over the ticket distribution of the ticket, calling Mann a “parachute candidate”.One such leader is Narinder Singh Shergill, who contested the Lok Sabha elections from Sri Anandpur Sahib constituency and was a contender for the Kharar ticket. “I have been working in Kharar ever since the AAP was formed, but they ignored me,” he said, while adding that he would decide his future course of action after a discussion with his supporters.Jagdev Singh Maloya, district president of the AAP’s farmer wing in Mohali, said: “It is not right to field a candidate from outside Kharar. There were so many local leaders, who were strong contenders for the ticket, but the party completely ignored them.”‘I’ve been living in Kharar for 16 years’Mann is a Punjabi singer and belongs to Mansa district in Punjab. She has done her graduation from MCM DAV College in Sector 36, Chandigarh. In July last year, she joined the AAP and was made the Kharar in-charge. She had actively participated in the farmers’ protest in Mohali. Mann said that people are fed up with both the Shiromani Akali Dal and Congress and have made up their minds to bring the AAP into power. “I am hopeful of winning the elections with a thumping majority. Some leaders are unhappy; it happens; we will pacify them,” she said.Mann said though she is from Mansa, for the past 16 years, she has been staying in Kharar and will keep serving the people of this town.In November 2018, the AAP had suspended journalist-turned-politician and Kharar MLA Kanwar Sandhu along with Sukhpal Singh Khaira for “indulging in anti-party activities” and “continuously attacking the central and state leadership”. Though Khaira later resigned from the party, Sandhu is still in the AAP but has not been active in his constituency.Last week, in a message on social media, Sandhu made it clear that he would not be contesting the elections, but will remain active in public life and will continue serving people in other ways. On the AAP, he said: “The party should introspect on its conduct.” He also made it clear that he will not be joining any other party. During the Kharar municipal elections in February this year, AAP won only one seat of the 27. The Congress got 10, followed by eight each to SAD and Independents.
11-12-2021||Chandigarh||Chrysanthemum Show begins in Chandigarh||UT adviser Dharam Pal inaugurated the annual Chrysanthemum Show at Terraced Garden, Sector 33, on Friday.The adviser said that this time due to Covid-19 precautions, the municipal corporation is organised a “symbolic” festival. However, what’s special about the event is that it has been pitched as a “zero-waste festival”. Explaining it, Pal said the MC is using either reusable or recyclable things, so that no waste is generated during the festival. He also commended the MC officials for taking the initiative.As many as 269 varieties of chrysanthemum are on display this year. All these varieties are grown and groomed at the MC nursery. Gardeners of the horticulture department have made various displays of the flowers in the form of boat, camel, peacock, cow, giraffe, lion and many other animals and birds.The three-day show will be open from 10 am to 7 pm till Sunday.MORE NEWS IN SHORTSChandigarh Business Council gets new headBusinessman Chander Verma was on Thursday appointed as the new president of the Chandigarh Business Council (CBC).Verma said he would continue to take up issues concerning the traders with the UT administration, the Municipal Corporation and other concerned departments.Verma revealed that one of his first initiatives would be to press for the UT administration completing the VAT assessments in the manner akin to the Punjab government’s. “As the UT administration follows the Punjab government on similar issues, they should provide similar relief to city traders,” he said.He further stressed that the administration should issue such documents as completion certificates and building plans online in the spirit of adopting a public and business-friendly approach.Council members also thanked Neeraj Bajaj, the outgoing president, for actively performing his duties for two terms at the meeting.Scooterist killed in Mohali hit-and-runA 31-year-old man was killed after a car hit his scooter near Lakhnaur village falling under the Sohana police station in Mohali on Thursday night.The deceased has been identified as Rahul Sharma, who belonged to Baldev Nagar in Ambala and was presently residing at TDI City near Landran.Police said Sharma he was returning home when the accident took place around 9:30pm. As he reached near the Laknaur bus stop, a Tata Indigo car, bearing a Haryana registration number, hit his Activa. Sharma fell down and sustained fatal injuries. He was declared brought dead on being rushed to a private hospital in Sohana.Police have registered a case under Sections 279 (rash driving) and 304A (causing death by negligence) of the Indian Penal Code against the unknown car driver on the statement of the victim’s uncle Rumesh Pratap Rana.Investigating officer Satinder Singh said that the car’s number was noted down by a witness, on the basis of which its search is on.Development works launched in Mohali Former Punjab health minister Balbir Singh Sidhu on Friday inaugurated development works worth ₹8.5 crore in Sectors 79 and 80. Mohali mayor Amarjit Singh Sidhu, senior deputy mayor Amrik Singh Somal and deputy mayor Kuljit Singh Bedi were also present on the occasion. The works pertain to the development of roads and parks in the two sectors.Vij pays tribute to General RawatHaryana home minister Anil Vij on Friday paid tributes to chief of defence staff General Bipin Rawat, his wife Madhulika Rawat and 11 other soldiers who died during a helicopter crash in Tamil Nadu. At a BJP event in Ambala Cantt’s Sadar Bazaar Chowk, he lit candles in the memory of the deceased. “General Rawat has given recognition to the armed forces in the world through his dedication towards the country. He worked towards modernisation of our forces and his demise is a huge loss to India,” the minister said. Lecture on anti-corruption dayPanjab University’s girls’ hostel number 8 organised a special lecture to mark the International Anti-corruption Day. Manoj Kumar, SP, vigilance, Chandigarh, threw light on the cyber and legal aspects of corruption. Students interacted with him and put a number of queries. Professor Rattan Singh, chief vigilance officer, PU, was guest of honour. UIPS professor gets ₹10L grantProfessor Ranju Bansal of the University Institute of Pharmaceutical Sciences, Panjab University, has been bestowed with a mid-career award by the UGC with a grant of ₹10 lakh. The award aims to augment the research efforts of active mid-career faculty members and support them with the research incentive. She will be working on repurposing steroidal drugs as possible agents against neurodegenerative disorders using virtual screening and experimental techniques.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chrysanthemum-show-begins-in-chandigarh-101639167155736.html
11-12-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh MC election: Meet candidates with meagre means but high hopes||Among a number of high-profile and rich candidates fielded by different parties, there are many from humble background who will try their luck as Independents in the upcoming Chandigarh municipal elections.They might possess meagre means, but have high hopes. Among them is Lata Diyat, a visually challenged candidate who has filed her nomination papers from Ward No. 6. Wife of a gardener, the 46-year-old lives in Bangla Basti, Manimajra. A social worker at the school for blind, she holds an MA (music) degree from Panjab University. Diyat says Chandigarh’s slip in the Swachh rankings was among the reasons she jumped into the election fray. “Our prime focus should be the environment and adopting a green culture,” she says, adding that she has the support of people in her neighbourhood.In Ward No. 3, Farmaan Naeem, who is a carpenter, will fight the election. Aged 33, this Bapu Dham Colony resident has studied till Class 10. Naeem claims he never took interest in municipal elections, but the issues faced by him during lockdown prompted him to file the nominations this time. “At first, no one came to help when we were in quarantine during the pandemic. It was a difficult situation and people needed help. I want to show people a new way so that changes can be made,” he says.Surinder Kaur, 40, whose husband is a mechanic, is contesting from Ward No. 1. A resident of Khuda Ali Sher village, she says the lack of support shown by the elected representatives during the lockdown prompted her to vie for a seat in the civic body. “This is the first time that I will take part in an election. People want to be heard, and I want their problems resolved,” says Kaur.Akhil Bansal, 28, a telecom retailer who lives in the rehabilitation colony at Dhanas, has entered into the fray from Ward No. 15. “The area lacks basic amenities, and I want to address this issue as a representative of the people,” he says.Aged 22, Akansha, who is contesting from Ward No. 16 on the Bahujan Samaj Party ticket, is among the two youngest candidates in the fray this election. Moved by the poor condition of slum areas in the city, Akansha, a BSc (medical) final-year student at the government college in Sector 11, decided to contest elections.“I am working for the education of slum children in Sector 25 for some time now. I want to do more for them. Even basic amenities are missing in the city’s slums; people are forced to drink water contaminated by sewage,” says Akansha, who has declared assets worth ₹30,000. “If other candidates have money, I have ideas and sincerity.”
11-12-2021||Chandigarh||Mohali: Protest by truckers brings traffic to a halt on Airport Road||People going to airport and other commuters were at receiving end after members of the All India Truck Ekta Union blocked the Chhat light point on the Airport Road in Mohali on Friday. Demanding the revival of truck unions, the protestors have been sitting on a dharna at the spot since December 6. The one-hour blockade during peak traffic from 4.30 pm to 5.30 pm led to a massive snarl-up with vehicles lining up for around 4 kilometre. Though police diverted the traffic through villages, most vehicles remained struck, delaying many people who were supposed to board their flights. Union district vice-president Amandeep Singh said: “After the 2017 assembly elections, all truck unions in the state were dissolved by Amarinder Singh-led Congress government. As now chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi is at the helm, we demand that he should revive the truck unions. We also demand that transportion rates be increased, as truck operators are suffering from an economic downturn.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/mohaliprotest-by-truckers-brings-traffic-to-a-halt-on-airport-road-101639167148794.html
11-12-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh MC polls: Uttarakhand CM to canvass for BJP on December 18||Uttarakhand chief minister of Pushkar Singh Dhami and Union minister of state for defence and culture Ajay Bhatt will be campaigning for Bharatiya Janata Party candidates ahead of the Chandigarh municipal corporation elections scheduled on December 24.Dhami will address six election public meetings on December 18 in favour of Bhupendra Sharma (Ward No. 34), Heera Negi (22), Vimla Dubey (9), Devesh Moudgil (21), Ravinder Rawat (27) and Kuljit Singh Sandhu (14). Party state executive member BS Bisht has been given the responsibility to organise these meetings. Bhatt, an MP from Nainital, will address a public meeting on December 14. BJP Mahila Morcha national president Vanathi Srinivas will be in town on Saturday.Tandon attacks CongMeanwhile, addressing a press conference on Friday, senior BJP leader Sanjay Tandon said: “Congress’ 14-year tenure in the Chandigarh MC would always be remembered for a series of scams and scandals. Congress is in quarantine for the last six years and is trying to recover this election, but public is preparing to send them into quarantine again.”Tandon claimed that BJP had given impetus to development in the city, adding that when the whole country was facing the problem of oxygen, not only Chandigarh was self-sufficient but also fulfilled the needs of neighbouring states.Meanwhile, independent candidate Shivchand who filed nomination from Ward No. 8 announced his withdrawal from competition in favour of BJP candidate Harjit Singh in Tandon’s presence. Shivchand said he is a loyal soldier of the party and continues to support the BJP. Officially, the withdrawal of candidature had ended on Thursday.People tormented by BJP’s pro-rich policies: Cong’s Alka LambaAddressing a Congress “nukkar” meeting at Buterla village under Ward No. 30 on Friday, party’s national spokesperson Alka Lamba said that people are being tormented by pro-rich economic policies of the Modi government. “The Chandigarh municipal corporation under the BJP has also imposed unbearable taxes on the people. Instead of spending these taxes on the welfare of people, the local party unit is indulging in massive corruption,” she alleged.Lamba also released the local manifesto of Harmohinder Singh Lucky, party candidate from Ward No 2 . She was accompanied by youth leader Manish Bansal. The manifesto promises a new community centre in Sector 7 , new green belts, special status for Nehru Park in Sector 9 and helpline for senior citizens besides other facilities and services.Lamba also inaugurated an election office of Gurbax Rawat, Congress candidate from Ward No. 27, at Ramlila Ground in Sector 40.Meanwhile, Congress’s Ward No. 19 candidate Kamlesh Banarsi Das began her personal contact programme with door-to-door canvassing on Friday. The Congress campaign got a boost on Friday when AAP leaders Daisy Walia and Inderjeet Ahluwalia joined the grand old party along with many AAP workers at Congress Bhawan in presence of Himachal Pradesh MLA Rajinder Rana.Meanwhile, Sanyum Grover, son of BJP leader Sanjeev Grover, also joined the Congress with his team of young activists.AAP believes in politics of work: ChhabraAam Aadmi Party (AAP) Chandigarh co-incharge Pradeep Chhabra on Friday inaugurated the election office of party candidate Harjinder Singh Bawa from Ward No. 34 in Sector 46. City unit president Prem Garg and other party workers were also present.Chhabra said that the AAP will work on developing all 35 wards and solving decade-old problems not addressed by the BJP and Congress in all these years. Claiming that the AAP believes in the “politics of work”, he said it is the reason it is getting wide support from the public. He said the party will win all seats in the election and win the mayorship. Bawa appealed to the people to vote for him. He said that after winning the election, he will resolve all problems of the ward.Meanwhile, Rajya Sabha MP and former ICAI president and ND Gupta attended a a conclave of chartered accountants organised by the AAP in Chandigarh on Friday. Gupta compared the strengths of a government with the working of a company. “Undue lending only turns to weak government. Generation of revenues is the moot requirement to run a stable and successful government like a valuable government,” he said, while displaying relevant data and figures to prove how adoption of rationalised tax collection system and end of Inspector Raj in Delhi has led to almost triple growth in revenues.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-mc-polls-uttarakhand-cm-to-canvass-for-bjp-on-december-18-101639166966472.html
11-12-2021||Chandigarh||Stop blaming farmers for air pollution in Delhi: Harsimrat||Former Union minister Harsimrat Kaur Badal on Friday asked the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) government in Delhi to stop blaming farmers of Punjab and Haryana for air pollution in the national capital. Speaking in Parliament, the Bathinda MP said even after the ministry of environment, forest and climate change had said that stubble burning was not the major cause for air pollution in Delhi, the AAP government continued to defame the farmers of Punjab and Haryana. “Studies have rather pointed out that stubble burning impact on the air quality in Delhi is negligible and that construction activities, industrial emissions and vehicular pollution is the major cause of air pollution in the national capital,” she said.She asked the Union environment ministry to issue a white paper on the issue so as to set the record straight and end the unfair targeting of farmers and demanded the centre to give an alternative to farmers to phase out the practice of stubble burning.She said that the Supreme Court had directed that farmers should be given ₹100 per quintal to manage their stubble but nothing has been done in this regard for the past three years.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/stop-blaming-farmers-for-air-pollution-in-delhi-harsimrat-101639166906388.html
11-12-2021||Bhopal||Clean up Shipra river or protest continues, say seers in Madhya Pradesh’s Ujjain||BHOPAL/UJJAIN: More than 50 seers on Thursday started a sit-in in Ujjain to demand that the administration ensure the cleanliness of Shipra river. The protest began to support Nirmohi Akhara Mahamandaleshwar Gyan Das, who has been fasting since November 16 for the cleanliness of the holy river. The seers under the banner of Shaddarshan Sadhu Samaj started the protest on the bank of the river after the condition of Mahamandaleshwar deteriorated. “The sewer drains are polluting the river for the past four decades. During Simhastha, the river was cleaned for the time being by filling water of Narmada river but again the river has turned into a drain only. This is not a matter of purification of Shipra river but it is a matter of faith. Saints take a holy dip in the river on several occasions but the condition of the river is worsening by the day,” said Mahamandaleshwar Gyan Das.“The protest will not end with just assurance. We will leave this place only when the work order will be placed to clean the river, said Rameshwar Das of Sri Kshetra Panda committee. District collector Ashish Singh said the administration is trying to persuade the seers to end their protest. “We are trying to convince the seers to end the protest. We will soon send a proposal to the state government for cleaning the river”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bhopal-news/clean-up-shipra-river-or-protest-continues-say-seers-in-madhya-pradesh-s-ujjain-101639166726062.html
11-12-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab logs 36 fresh Covid cases, 1 death||Punjab on Friday reported 36 fresh Covid cases taking the infection tally to 6,03,674, according to a medical bulletin. The state also reported one Covid-related fatality, taking the death toll to 16,617, it said. Among the fresh cases, Mohali reported 11, followed by five each in Bathinda and Ludhiana. The number of active cases on Friday rose to 397 from 378 on Thursday, the bulletin said. Sixteen more people recovered from the infection, taking the total number of recoveries to 5,86,660, it said. A total of 28,957 Covid tests were done on Friday and 1,09,531 people were vaccinated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-logs-36-fresh-covid-cases-1-death-101639166667934.html
11-12-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh MC polls: After repeal of farm laws, BJP hopes to regain lost ground||With Chandigarh municipal corporation (MC) elections inching closer, the opposition parties, including the Congress and the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP), are banking on the remnants of an anti-BJP sentiment that stemmed from the farmer agitation, to sway votes of the population residing in city villages in their favour.With the agitation now withdrawn, the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), is also keen on regaining lost ground with the city’s rural demographic, which accounts for around 1.25 lakh votes.There are a total of 22 villages under the civic body’s jurisdiction, of which 13 were added recently, making for first-time voters, heading into the December 24-election. The 1.25-lakh-strong demographic is expected to be the deciding factor in around 12 out of the total 35 wards.‘Farmers still angry at BJP’Claiming that the farmers are still angry with the BJP’s handling of the agitation, Pardeep Chhabra, co-in-charge of the AAP’s UT unit, said, “It took the BJP government more than a year to heed to the justified demands of the farmer community.” “For that long the farmers had to suffer hard and many of them even died. Now, when the BJP has withdrawn these laws, it is only because of an eye on elections due in several farmer dominated states,” he added.Notably, the city saw several protests and regular sit-ins, including those in villages, for a vast majority of the agitation’s entire duration. The BJP workers faced strong opposition from protestors in various villages on multiple occasions, at times even being denied entry. Instances of physical altercations involving protesting villagers and party functionaries were also reported. In one such incident reported from Sector 26, the car carrying mayor Ravi Kant Sharma and senior BJP leader Sanjay Tandon was attacked with iron-rod-wielding protestors. Kisan leaders sceptic of BJP’s prospectsSurinder Kaur, a member of the AAP from Khuda Lahora, who has a long-standing association with the farmer agitation, said that while the protests against the BJP leaders have mellowed since the withdrawal of the contentious farm laws, it will still be difficult for the party to win over rural voters.A former BJP national Kisan Morcha member and two-time Daria sarpanch, Gurpreet Singh Happy, said, “If BJP thinks that withdrawing the farm laws would pacify the farmers then it is making a grave mistake.” Having turned dissident after not getting a party ticket, Happy, highlighted the sizeable population with a farming background that reside in city villages. He said, “Most of the villages like Khuda Lahora, Khuda Jassu, Kajheri, Palsora, there is a strong base of families associated with farming. These are the original inhabitants and many still have agricultural land within the city and neighbouring areas.”BJP puts money on withdrawal moveThe BJP local leadership, meanwhile, continue to back their earlier stance suggesting that Narendra Modi government’s decision to withdraw the farm laws has helped close the chapter on the entire issue.“The government has not only withdrawn the laws but has also accepted other demands of the farmers. The farm laws were brought for the farmers’ welfare and withdrawn for the nation’s good. We will now see greater support for the party in the village among the farmer community,” Arun Sood, president of the party’s UT unit, said.Accusing the opposition parties of “instigating” farmers for political gains, Sood said, “It is the Congress and AAP who can’t take on the BJP directly who are even now trying to instigate farmers against the party. They are even camouflaging themselves as farmers to perpetuate such non-existing anger.” 
11-12-2021||Chandigarh||2015 sacrilege: SIT grills dera vice-chairperson for four hours, no trace of Vipassana||Punjab Police special investigation team (SIT) on Friday visited the Dera Sacha Sauda headquarters in Haryana’s Sirsa district for the second time this week in connection with the 2015 sacrilege cases and questioned vice-chairperson Prithvi Raj Nain, who earlier failed to appear before it despite having summoned repeatedly. The SIT could not trace the sect’s administration wing chairperson Vipassana Insan. After the two were summoned last month, Vipassana failed to respond, while Nain expressed helplessness in appearing before the SIT citing his ill-health. SIT head inspector general of police (IGP) Surinder Pal Singh Parmar along with other members — Batala senior superintendent of police (SSP) Mukhwinder Singh, DSP Lakhbir Singh and inspector Dalbir Singh — asked 73 questions from Nain during his grilling for more than four hours at sect headquarters on Friday. Besides, the SIT also gave a questionnaire, having 125 queries. He has been directed to submit his answers within 48 hours, people familiar with the development said. IGP Parmar said “We have recorded Nain’s statement. He was uneasy during questioning and evasive in answers. After some time, he requested to discontinue the questioning. As he is only a witness, we agreed and gave him a questionnaire. The dera management told us that Vipassana left the dera headquarters more than a year ago and no one knows about her whereabouts. We have started the process to trace her.” An official privy with the development said the SIT asked Nain about the whereabouts of Vipassana and three absconding members of sect’s national committee — Sandeep Bareta, Pardeep Kler and Harsh Dhuri. The questions were more focused on dera management’s operations and events connected with sacrilege incidents, which took place in Faridkot district in 2015, people familiar with the development said. Bareta, Kler and Dhuri are the missing link in three sacrilege incidents that sparked off state-wide protests in 2015, says the SIT. The team claims that the instructions to execute sacrilege at Bargari (Faridkot), Malke (Moga) and Gurusar (Bathinda) were given by Bareta, Kler and Dhuri to the district dera committee members after getting directions from the sect headquarters. Vipassana and Nain were summoned to appear at the IGP’s Ludhiana office on November 16, 26 and December 3 in connection with an FIR lodged at the Bajakhana police station in Faridkot district on June 2, 2015. The case was registered after a bir (copy) of Guru Granth Sahib was stolen from a gurdwara at Burj Jawahar Singh Wala village of the district. On December 6, SIT visited dera headquarter to question them but failed to trace them. Nain had also approached Punjab and Haryana high court fearing arrest. However, the state on Thursday told the court that he is only required to make a statement and as of now, there is no such contemplation to arrest him. The two are also facing allegations of orchestrating violence in Panchkula in August 2017. On November 8, the SIT had questioned dera head Gurmeet Ram Rahim Singh for seven hours at the Sunaria jail in Rohtak district and submitted a 65-page status report in the Punjab and Haryana high court four days later. 
11-12-2021||Chandigarh||Ambala MC to crack whip against defacement||Dhirendra Khadgata, commissioner of the municipal corporation, on Friday announced that they will be taking strict action against public or private institutions, or even individuals, involved in pasting third-party promotional posters and pamphlets on public property without due permission.“Any type of political or apolitical advertisement at these places will be removed and violators can be prosecuted under defacement of public property act,” Khadgata said, while addressing a press conference called to discuss public feedback and steps to be taken in view of the Swachh Survekshan 2021. “As per a direction by the Punjab and Haryana High Court, private establishments can only publish information or advertisement related to them and if there is third party promotion, we can charge them under advertisement policy. We will soon float a tender for advertisement under the MC region that will look into the issue,” the commissioner added.Beautification and development projects announcedKhadgata also announced a city beautification project, saying that local MLA Aseem Goyal had on Wednesday chaired a meeting with concerned MC officials and representatives of various resident welfare associations in this regard. Discussing ways to improve waste-water management, the commissioner said multiple mini-sewage treatment plants will be constructed in city parks, before adding that the treated water will then be used for maintenance purposes.Shifting focus to illegal encroachments, primarily near the bus stand, Khadgata announced a special drive to ensure their removal starting December 15. The civic body, he added, would also repurpose unused central government lands into parks.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ambala-mc-to-crack-whip-against-defacement-101639166186149.html
11-12-2021||Chandigarh||Covid: 19 more test positive in Chandigarh tricity area||The tricity reported 18 new cases of Covid-19 on Friday, with Mohali accounting for 11. The remaining five surfaced in Panchkula and two in Chandigarh.The daily tally had stood at 22 and 19 and Wednesday and Thursday, respectively. Meanwhile, no virus-related death was reported on Friday. Only one Mohali woman has succumbed to the virus in the tricity this month so far.In Mohali district, five new cases were reported from Kharar, two each from Dhakoli and Mohali city, while one each surfaced in Dera Bassi and Boothgarh. Chandigarh’s cases were reported from Sectors 15 and 22. With cases being reported in double digits daily, the tricity’s active cases tally is also going up. It has reached 158, with 76 patients in Mohali, 56 in Chandigarh, and 26 in Panchkula.Chandigarh has so far reported 65,618 positive cases, of which 64,486 have been cured and 1,076 have died. In Mohali, total cases recorded tol date are 69,026. Among these, 67,877 patients have recovered and 1,073 have died. Panchkula’s caseload of 30,862 includes 30,457 recoveries and 379 casualties.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/covid-19-more-test-positive-in-chandigarh-tricity-area-101639165886654.html
11-12-2021||Chandigarh||Protests mar Channi’s public rally in Mansa||A public rally addressed by chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi on Friday witnessed protests by the unemployed teachers and activists of the Youth Congress.The twin events caused embarrassment to the organisers as it was seen as an important political event ahead of the forthcoming state elections. Famous Punjabi singer Sidhu Moosewala, who came on the political stage for the first time on Friday after joining the Congress recently, faced strong opposition from a section of youth present in the gallery.All India Congress Committee (AICC) secretary Harshwardhan Sapkal was among those present at the function.As Channi started his address, a group of men among the Congress workers started raising slogans against the Punjab government for not providing jobs to the qualified teachers. They were overpowered by the security personnel and pushed out of the venue.Police resorted to lathi-charge to disperse another large group of protesters out of the venue. Some protesters also sustained injuries and several were taken into custody. The police action forced the CM to suspend his address for nearly 20 minutes.Channi issued a stern warning to the protesting unions. “Such people are working with ulterior political motives and the government will not tolerate such unruly behaviour,” he said. “I will not listen to such people who disrupt Congress meetings or climb atop water tanks to press for their demands. We are ready to redress problems of all sections, but unions cannot hold the government to ransom,” said the infuriated Channi.Protesters try to disrupt Moosewala’s speechEarlier, a group of Youth Congress activists hooted throughout the time when Sidhu Moosewala addressed the gathering.Carrying placards of former Mansa district Youth Congress president Chuspinder Singh Chahal, the protesters tried to disrupt Moosewala’s speech.He, however, urged the Congress workers to get united for the development of Mansa. “Mansa became a district in 1992 but this mutual rivalry led to a stage that the district continues to be underdeveloped. It is high time that we all get united. The Congress has several senior leaders in the district and I will take whatever role the party assigns me,” said the singer.Transport minister Amrinder Singh Raja Warring, who had overseen Mansa rally’s planning, was left red-faced with protest by a section of the party workers.Police had a tough time handling Chahal’s supporters and they were caught unawares about the unemployed teacher’s presence among the political activists.No dearth of funds for development: CM Addressing the gathering, Channi said the state has enough funds for various developmental and welfare activities.“It is an annual feature that money is generated from taxes and it gets exhausted by the end of the year on public activities. There is no shortage of funds,” he added.Channi said the state government would welcome farmers who would start returning to their homes from Saturday after the repeal of the contentious farm laws.Meanwhile, ex-AAP legislator from Jaitu Master Baldev Singh was inducted into the party. Singh, who was disqualified by the speaker in October this year for anti-defection provisions, had quit AAP on Thursday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/protests-mar-channi-s-public-rally-in-mansa-101639165826145.html
11-12-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab polls: AAP releases second list, bets on new faces||The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) on Friday released a list of 30 candidates for the Punjab assembly elections early next year, fielding former IPS officer Kunwar Vijay Pratap Singh from the Amritsar North seat. Kunwar Vijay was part of the special investigation team (SIT) probing the 2015 Kotkapura police firing incident. He took premature retirement from service in April this year after the Punjab and Haryana high court quashed the probe report filed by the SIT. The former inspector general of police joined the AAP in June. This is the second list of party nominees and all, except seven, are fresh faces. The others have contested the assembly or Lok Sabha elections in the past. The first list of 10 candidates – all of them sitting AAP MLAs repeated from the seats presently held by them – was released by the party last month. In 2017, the AAP had won 20 seats to emerge as the principal opposition. The party was then rocked by internal squabbling and desertions, which reduced its effective strength to 11. Raman Bahl, who switched sides from the Congress to the AAP exactly a month ago, has been given ticket from Gurdaspur, according to the list signed by AAP state in-charge Jarnail Singh and state president Bhagwant Mann. Bahl, a former chairman of the Punjab State Subordinate Services Selection Board, is the son of former minister and four-time Gurdaspur MLA Khushal Bahl. He remained president of the Gurdaspur municipal council twice. Punjabi singer Anmol Gagan Mann is the AAP nominee from Kharar. The seat was won by AAP’s Kanwar Sandhu in 2017, but he was suspended for anti-party activities two years ago. Former improvement trust chairman Vibhuti Sharma has been given the ticket from Pathankot, while Jagrup Singh Sekhwan, the son of former minister Sewa Singh Sekhwan, has been named the party candidate from Qadian. Sekhwan Senior died in October, days after joining the AAP. Punjabi singer-action Balkar Sidhu is the party candidate from Rampura Phul. Former MLA Naresh Kataria has been fielded from Zira. Gurmeet Singh Khudian, who was the covering candidate of former chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh during the 2017 assembly elections, has been given the ticket from Lambi. His father Jagtar Singh Khudian was MP from Faridkot. The list also includes DCP Balkar Singh (Kartarpur), Ravjot Singh (Sham Chaurasi) Balbir Singh Pannu (Fatehgarh Churian), Dr Inderbir Singh Nijjar (Amritsar South), Gurdit Singh Sekhon (Faridkot) Sherry Kalsi (Batala), Lalit Mohan ‘Ballu’ Pathak (Nawanshahr), Lalijit Singh Bhullar (Patti), Daljit Singh (Ludhiana East), Kulwant Singh Sidhu (Atam Nagar), Manwinder Singh Gyaspura (Payal, SC), Jagdeep Singh Kaka Brar (Muktsar), Neena Mittal (Rajpura), Harmeet Singh (Sanour), Chetan Singh (Samana) and Madan Lal Bagga (Ludhiana North). Jiwan Singh has been fielded from Gill (SC), Gurlal from Ghanaur, Labh Singh Ugoke from Bhadaur (SC), Lal Chand from Bhoa (SC) and Harbhajan Singh from Jandiala (SC) seat.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-polls-aap-releases-second-list-bets-on-new-faces-101639165465958.html
11-12-2021||Chandigarh||Fake birth, death certificates: Centre asks Haryana to hold inquiry, seeks action-taken report||PASSING THE BUCK The Registrar General of India writes to Haryana CS, says chief registrar of state is responsible for effective functioning of birth, death registration system India’s Registrar General and Census Commissioner has requested the Haryana government to “conduct a proper inquiry” into the red flags the state health department has raised over unauthorised people generating fake birth and death certificates by breaking into the Civil Registration System (CRS) portal.In a series of letters shot-off to the Registrar General of India (RGI) between June and October this year, Haryana has been listing the details of how “thousands of fake birth and death certificates were generated fraudulently” by unauthorised persons after breaching the security of the CRS portal that RGI maintains.And it is after HT report (Haryana sounds alarm over fake birth, death certificates, December 2) that Registrar General and Census Commissioner of India, Vivek Joshi, on December 9 sent a letter to Haryana chief secretary Sanjeev Kaushal, seeking action-taken report in this matter from the state health department.“It is requested that necessary directions may be given to the authority concerned to conduct a proper inquiry on the issue of fake birth certificates and take appropriate action required under the law. Office of RGI will provide assistance in the said inquiry, if required,” said Joshi, the RGI, who is a senior IAS officer, in his two-page letter (HT has the copy).“An action-taken report (ATR) in the matter by the chief registrar, department of health will be appreciated.”The registration of births and deaths in country is done under the provisions of the Registration of Births and Deaths (RBD) Act, 1969 and corresponding state rules.According to Joshi’s letter, the RGI, at the central level, coordinates and unifies the activities of registration throughout the country.Contrary to Haryana’s contention that no action is being taken by the RGI office despite showing information about illegal use of CRS portal, the RGI has said the CRS is state governed and implementation of the statute is vested with the state governments, which has appointed the chief registrar as the chief executive authority in the respective states for implementing the Act.As the head of registration system, the letter says, the chief registrar is responsible for organisation and operational aspects of the Act for effective functioning of the registration system in the state.OTHER STATES ALSO FLAGGED FAKE BIRTH CERTIFICATE ISSUEAccording to the RGI’s letter, there were “reports from few state governments” regarding issuance of fake birth and death certificates. These reports included “misuse of user/login ID and passwords in the existing portal/software” developed for online registration of birth and deaths by unauthorised persons.The RGI has said that in view of such reports, chief registrars of states/UTs were requested on July 28 and September 29 to issue instructions to all registration functionaries not to share their login details and periodically change the password. The letter further says that chief registrars were instructed to take legal action in case of misuse of user/login ID and password of any user or fake registration.“In spite of the aforesaid instructions, it has come to the notice of the office of RGI that some unauthorised persons by misusing login ID/password or otherwise have issued fake birth certificates in few cases on the CRS portal for online registration of births and deaths in the state of Haryana,” says RGI’s letter to Haryana chief secretary.The reported compromised IDs and fake records, states the letter, were blocked and deleted by office of RGI. In addition, director, directorate of census operations, Haryana has recently taken up the matter with authorities concerned in state.The letter further seeks direction to Haryana’s chief registrar to instruct all registration authorities in the state to “exercise due diligence while accessing CRS portal/software”.THE BLAME GAMEWhile RGI’s latest missive clearly deflects Haryana’s contentions, on the other hand, the state health department in its October 13 letter to the RGI said: “Despite repeated requests and showing information about illegal use of the CRS portal, no action has been taken at your end and the misuse of the portal is yet to be controlled. The fake registration cases are still being informed to this office.”In another letter to the RGI, which comes under the Union ministry of home affairs, Haryana health department said they were unable to keep check on creation of fake registrar and sub registrar in the portal as they don’t have control/access over database.The state health authorities stated that despite earlier communications “regarding misuse of CRS portal by hacking it” at least 243 births were registered illegally in Panipat’s ESI hospital and primary health centre using bogus user identification in October.“It seems that some outsiders have good control over the CRS website...” Haryana had told the RGI.
11-12-2021||Chandigarh||IPS officer suspended after being asked to join probe in multi-crore theft case in Gurugram||The Haryana government on Friday placed under suspension IPS officer Dheeraj Kumar, who was asked to join investigation on the basis of a confessional statement made by an accused in an alleged multi-crore theft case in Gurugram.The 2013-batch IPS officer was posted as Commandant 3rd India Reserve Battalion, Sunaria in Rohtak and during suspension his headquarter will be in the office of DGP Haryana in Panchkula, according to an order additional chief secretary (home) Rajeev Arora issued on Friday.The suspension order does not mention the reason behind suspension of the officer, who was earlier posted as the Gurugram DCP.The STF is probing a multi-crore theft case in the office of a company in a residential society in Sector 82 Gurugram that took place in August earlier this year. Some people, including a Delhi Police official, whose role had also come under scanner during investigations, have earlier been arrested in the case.Kumar has been served two notices asking him to join investigations, inspector general of police, STF, Mamta Singh said over the phone on Friday.Referring to the confessional statement of an accused, she said, “There is a certain claim made by an accused in custody and now the matter with regard to the allegations made (against Dheeraj Kumar) is under investigation.”The provisions of the Prevention of Corruption Act, 1988 were invoked in the case last month on the basis of a confessional statement of an accused, the IG said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ips-officer-suspended-after-being-asked-to-join-probe-in-multi-crore-theft-case-in-gurugram-101639164806737.html
11-12-2021||Chandigarh||UGC pay scales: Teachers of Panjab University and affiliated colleges intensify protest||University and college teachers in Chandigarh have intensified their protest over the Punjab government’s failure to revise UGC pay scales as per the Seventh Pay Commission recommendations.Besides a dharna held by the Panjab University Teachers Association (PUTA) for the second day in a row, teachers at Sri Guru Gobind Singh College, Sector 26, and DAV College, Sector 10, participated in a chain hunger strike to press their demands. The protests are being held by teachers as part of a statewide “education bandh” under the banner of Punjab Federation of University and College Teachers Federation (PFUCTO).PUTA started a rally from the varsity’s Gandhi Bhawan. The teachers expressed their disappointment over their pending demands. PUTA members reportedly also locked a few teaching departments as a mark of protest.PUTA president Mritunjay Kumar said: “We hope that the assurance given by the Punjab government is fulfilled without any further delay. It is difficult to understand the inordinate delay on the part of the state government, when revised UGC pay scales have long been implemented all over the country except in Punjab, Chandigarh and Himachal Pradesh.”The teachers appealed to the Punjab chief minister to take notice of the long struggle and help them get their dues through his personal intervention. Dr Inderpal Singh Sidhu, an assistant professor at Sri Guru Gobind Singh College, Sector 26, who participated in the chain hunger strike said: “It’s strange that the Punjab government has revised the pay scales of all employees but denied the revision of scales to university and college teachers.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ugc-pay-scales-teachers-of-panjab-university-and-affiliated-colleges-intensify-protest-101639164626835.html
11-12-2021||Chandigarh||Fresh stand contradicts 2016 decision: HC on show-cause notice to HCS officers||The Punjab and Haryana high court said fresh stand taken by the Haryana government flies in the face of the 2016 decision in the case of show-cause notices given to 19 Haryana Civil Services (HCS) officers in November.The high court bench of justice Arun Monga, while seeking response from the state by January 27, said till next date of hearing it is expected that the government will maintain status quo. The court was hearing a plea from some officers, Inder Jeet and others, who had approached court challenging the show-cause notice.The issue is about show-cause notice on termination of services to 19 officers given on November 27. They were recruited pursuant to a 2004 advertisement during Om Prakash Chautala-led Indian National Lok Dal government. As many as 102 were selected but after allegations of adopting unfair means to select candidates, only these were declared non tainted and appointed in 2016.However, recently, the state government told the high court that the entire selection process was vitiated. Hence, these 19 officers too were given show-cause notices of dismissal. The state had submitted its response to a plea from those who were not given appointments.The court said in 2016, chief secretary had passed an order on appointment of non-tainted ones following which an appeal on the issue was disposed of. Against that high court order, a plea was filed in the Supreme Court, which was dismissed and now the high court judgment has since attained finality.The government also accepted recommendations of a committee comprising of senior officers of the state vigilance bureau, vide which the officers, who were completely exonerated of the allegations of adopting any unfair means in their selection process and they were appointed in May 2016, the court added.The court said notices now come as bolt from the blue. The entire selection process that had withstood the judicial review from the high court and followed by the Supreme Court, has now been exhumed all over again.It further observed that show-cause notices given reflect that even though they have been given 30 days to respond to the same, but it appears that a decision has already been taken to dispense with their services.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/fresh-stand-contradicts-2016-decision-hc-on-show-cause-notice-to-hcs-officers-101639164566716.html
11-12-2021||Chandigarh||JJP Hisar president resigns after police book him in rape case||A day after Hisar women’s police station booked Jannayak Janata party (JJP) Hisar district president Ramesh Godara in a rape case, the accused president sent his resignation to JJP state chief Nishan Singh.In her complaint to the police, a 33-year-old woman alleged that the accused had taken her from Kurukshetra to MLA hostel in Chandigarh in 2017 where he had allegedly raped her.“The accused had taken me to MLA hostel on pretext of visiting a doctor in Kalka for my treatment. He took my photograph and made a video of the act. He had visited my in-laws’ house several times after the marriage. Due to this, my husband got suspicious after which, I returned to my maternal home,” she added.She alleged that she had filed a police complaint after the accused tried to contact her. The woman urged the Haryana and Punjab high court chief justice to intervene into the matter and ensure justice. The Hisar police had registered a zero FIR and sent the matter to the Chandigarh Police for further investigation.Accused Ramesh Godara said all allegations levelled against him are false and baseless. “I have had a clean image and such allegations are being levelled to tarnish my image. I have full faith in the investigation and the truth will come out after a probe,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/jjp-hisar-president-resigns-after-police-book-him-in-rape-case-101639164385502.html
11-12-2021||Chandigarh||Haryana villagers set to give rousing welcome to local, Punjab farmers||As the farmers camping at Delhi borders for over a year are all set to return to their homes in Haryana, Punjab and other states from Saturday, Haryana farmers and locals are all set to give them a rousing welcome at multiple points.The Haryana farmers and villagers have prepared sweets and made arrangements of langar sewa for the returnees. The women in Rohtak’s Khidwali village on Friday distributed laddoos and other sweets after the Samyukta Kisan Morcha (SKM) announced to suspend the agitation after the Union government accepted their demands.Sushila Devi, of Khidwali village, said they will make all arrangements of food and accommodation for the farmers returning from Delhi borders. “We will shower petals on the agitators. This agitation has reduced the barriers between Haryana and Punjab farmers. We are grief-struck that many farmers who visited the borders in this fight did not return home and we are standing by their families,” she added.SKM leader Inderjeet Singh said the farmers will leave the protest sites after cleaning it. “Our volunteers have started collecting garbage and other waste. It’s our duty to clean the protest areas. The villagers from Jhajjar to Sirsa have made langar and accommodation facilities for farmers who will travel through these areas,” he said.“The villagers have prepared halwa, kheer, tea and other items for the returnees. The villagers are excited to see a glimpse of the returnees. We have packed our trolleys and will leave the protest sites after holding a ‘fateh yatra’,” he added.BKU Jind district president Azad Palwa said farmers and villagers will shower petals on farmers’ vehicle passing through the district. “We have also deputed teams of doctors at various points, for in case any farmers complain of health complications,” he added.The farmers from Haryana and Punjab said the year-long agitation has brought them closer and has reduced the barrier which was forged over the SYL issue.Gurjan Singh, of Punjab’s Sangrur, said they have established family-like relations with Haryana farmers and will never forget the support provided.“We will miss the protest sites and the time spent with our Haryana brothers. Haryana farmers have big hearts and we will stop our vehicles at every stoppage point from Tikri border to Khanauri to receive their welcome,” he added.Navdeep Singh, of Bathinda, said they have packed their belongings and will leave the protest site on Saturday.“We have won the battle due to the immense support provided by the Haryana farmers. They arranged food and other items required at Delhi borders. Even when the Haryana Police registered cases against them, they continued to fight against BJP-JJP leaders,” Singh added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/haryana-villagers-set-to-give-rousing-welcome-to-local-punjab-farmers-101639164206189.html
11-12-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: Poll code further delays setting up of RT-PCR test lab at GMSH-16||Amid the possibility of another surge of Covid-19 pandemic and concerns over the new Omicron variant, the Chandigarh health department has inadequate facilities to conduct testing for the virus. In fact, over 20 months after the first Covid-19 case surfaced in Chandigarh, Government Multi Specialty Hospital (GMSH), Sector 16, is yet to begin the RT-PCR (reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction) testing. The health department had in July planned to set up an advanced lab at GMSH-16 for conducting RT-PCR testing, with the aim to complete the project by September this year. Though the department has received the required equipment, the already delayed project will take another one month for completion due to Chandigarh municipal elections.“The engineering-related work of the building got delayed initially. Now, we have got the equipment, but due to the election code of conduct, approvals and filing procedures are taking extra time. It will take around a month to start the facility,” said Dr Suman Singh, director health services, Chandigarh.The RT-PCR test detects the presence of viral RNA and is quite accurate. It is the most recommended test for tracing the infection in individuals suffering from influenza-like symptoms and Covid-19. Once operational, the hospital will start conducting 400 tests per day while the capacity will increase with time. Meanwhile, the GMSH-16 has a TrueNat machine that gives results in three to four hours, but is only meant for testing of emergency cases and not for mass-scale testing. Besides, rapid antigen tests are being conducted at various government facilities, which give results in 30-45 minutes but are less reliable than RT-PCR tests.In the absence of the RT-PCR test facility, the UT health department is sending more than 1,000 samples daily to the Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER). During the peak of the first and second wave, the department was struggling to catch up with the daily testing targets set by the Union health ministry.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-poll-code-further-delays-setting-up-of-rt-pcr-test-lab-at-gmsh16-101639163665344.html
