12-12-2021||Mumbai||NCP: Sharad Pawar will unite Opposition; has key role in 2024 elections||Mumbai: On the 81st birthday of Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) chief Sharad Pawar, his party colleagues said that their octogenarian leader will lead from the front to put up a formidable alternative to incumbent dispensation at the Centre and that a “dramatic change” will follow the 2024 general elections. The party celebrated its leader’s birthday by holding a rally at Nehru Centre in Mumbai and party workers from various parts of the state attended the event digitally. Key leaders including Members of Parliament Praful Patel and Supriya Sule, deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar, and state ministers Bhujbal, Malik among others attended the rally. “Our party may small in size and cadre may be limited but the party workers believe in working for the downtrodden and backward classes. The party worker could not have a sound sleep if people from the unprivileged section of the society are distressed. The socio-political sphere of the society is changing and the party workers need to adapt it by keeping the ideology and philosophies of the reformists in mind,” Pawar said at Sunday’s rally. Food and civil supplies minister Chhagan Bhujbal said Pawar can repeat 2019’s “Maharashtra miracle” at the Centre, referring to the unlikely coalition that was formed following the assembly elections that year, which saw Shiv Sena part ways from its long-time ally, the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP). “Today, even larger parties and their leaders at the national level are looking at Pawar ‘saheb’ with hope. He has the ability to bring all of them (the Opposition parties) together. He can do a similar miracle at national level in 2024,” he said. “It is time to fight fearlessly against the injustice and oppression. A few parties (BJP) have been trying to bring the communal ideology in the country, but they will not succeed. People keep asking if there is an alternative to prime minister Narendra Modi? Pawar ‘saheb’ will take the lead in putting up the alternative. He will bring the Opposition parties with different mindsets together to take this battle forward. He will play the key role in it,” state minority affairs minister Nawab Malik said. Maharashtra NCP chief Jayat Patil said that central agencies were misusing their power to target opponents. “Central agencies target the leaders from non-BJP parties if they deny going along with the ruling party. The leaders from the non-BJP parties are targeted. Anil Deshmukh was raided seven times by Central Bureau of Investigation. Even family members are not spared. Everybody, even the citizens at village level know how the Enforcement Directorate works,” he said. Bhujbal said that the BJP was misleading people saying that NCP and the government are responsible for quashing of OBC reservation. He Pawar had initiated OBC reservation in the 1990s. MP Amol Kolhe said that the people of Maharashtra want Pawar to become the prime minister of the country. “If a leader from Gujarat, which has 26 MPs, can become the PM, why can’t a leader from Maharashtra with 48 Lok Sabha seats occupy the top seat of the country?” he asked.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/ncp-sharad-pawar-will-unite-opposition-has-key-role-in-2024-elections-101639333626522.html
12-12-2021||Mumbai||BMC to set up helpline for waste segregation complaints||Mumbai To improve waste management further by addressing the issues related to segregation faced by the societies, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) has planned to launch an official helpline for Mumbaikars. The BMC has been appealing to housing societies and various residential associations to segregate their own waste. Earlier this year, the BMC had also announced various tax rebates for the residential associations that would segregate and compost their own waste. However, the civic officials have said that local residents often complain that even though they segregate their wastes, the garbage collectors appointed by BMC mix them up. Dr Sangeeta Hasnale, deputy municipal commissioner (SWM), has said that in order to tackle the increasing complaints, a toll-free helpline will be started by the civic body. “After a complaint is registered, officials of the SWM department will visit the society or the neighbourhood and investigate the issue. If garbage collection for that particular day is completed, then the officials will visit the spot on the very next day and will monitor the collection for the next seven days at least,” said Hasnale. She said that the helpline will be ready this month and the numbers will be circulated at the ward level. According to the SWM department, Mumbai generates around 6,000 metric tonnes (MT) of waste regularly, out of which around 3,500 MT is wet waste, while the remaining amount comprises solid and hazardous waste. Hasnale said that housing societies that generate more than 100kg of waste per day and spread over an area of 20,000 square metres have to compulsorily segregate the daily generated today, as per the BMC norms. She also maintained that segregating the waste cuts down the overall volume that is being sent to the treatment facilities on a regular basis. “The staffers appointed to collect garbage regularly are experienced and trained. With the help of this hotline, the senior officials will be able to reach out to the garbage collectors and show them the right way,” Hasnale said. Dhaval Shah, Andheri resident and founder of Lokhandwala Oshiwara Citizen’s Association (LOCA), said that the idea of starting a hotline is good, however, the BMC should monitor the calls centrally. “We get complaints regularly about garbage not being handled or collected properly by the SWM workers. The issue of garbage is growing with time and the area of treating them has also become less,” Shah said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/bmc-to-set-up-helpline-for-waste-segregation-complaints-101639333332172.html
12-12-2021||Lucknow||Masses with the BSP, claims SC Mishra||Agra : National general secretary of Bahujan Samaj Party Satish Chandra Mishra said here on Sunday that the BSP represented all sections of society and thus the masses had decided to support it in the forthcoming UP assembly elections . Mishra was addressing division level party workers meet in the rural belt here. He was accompanied by his son Kapil Mishra who also addressed the gathering. BSP leaders welcomed those who joined the party during the meet, including trader leader Murari Lal Goyal who left the Congress. “Agra has its own importance for us and is a sort of capital for the Bahujan Samaj Party with such a large base of party supporters. The scenario is changing in UP and paving the way for a BSP government,” said Mishra who claimed the BSP was a party of all sections of society and thought about the welfare of all. “There is no difference between the SP and the BJP. Farmers are in difficulties and unemployment and crime graph are rising. Dalits and Brahmins are being targeted. Jobs in the government sector are not coming forth, establishments under the government control are being privatized and the government plans to end the reservation allowed for weaker sections of society,” he alleged. “The state government is not allowing the masses to raise their voice and Brahmins are facing encounters under the present rule. The oppressed masses are looking towards the BSP and will vote for the party in the 2022 UP elections,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/masses-with-the-bsp-claims-sc-mishra-101639333325237.html
12-12-2021||Gurugram||Gurugram: MCG to get its new ‘green building’ in two years||The new Municipal Corporation of Gurugram (MCG) office in Gurugram Sector 14 is being built with a focus on water and energy conservation and zero wastewater discharge as per the Haryana Building Code of 2017, said officials on Sunday.The “five-star rated green building complex” will regenerate electricity through a grid-connected rooftop solar photovoltaic — converting solar energy into electricity with the help of basic semiconductor materials such as silicon — system to meet its power requirements, they said. A green building means to apply green technologies to a building throughout its life cycle, i.e, from construction to operation to demolition, so that the negative environmental impact of buildings can be minimised as far as possible.Officials said a state-of-the-art building automation system will be installed with energy performance monitoring, measurement and consumption, to ensure that the usage of energy is either rationed or kept at moderate levels through the monitoring data on battery management system (BMS) and smart meters.MCG employees, common people and pedestrians will have separate access points to the building, and a high security and monitoring system will be adopted to ensure a constant supervision on all entry and exit points besides the corridors and rooms inside the building, the officials added.“The 11-storey building is estimated to cost ₹117 crore, and there are provisions for three basement floors with a cumulative parking capacity of 466 vehicles,” said SS Rohilla, public relations officer (PRO) of MCG.The green building will house offices for the three mayors, and a town hall for MCG house meetings with a seating capacity of 125 people. “This project will set exemplary benchmarks in government buildings across the city, through reducing energy consumption, thereby reducing carbon footprint and saving natural resources. The proposal of the new MCG office was put up in the first in-house meeting after the 2017 MCG elections. Both MCG officials and residents of Gurugram will be benefitted as the office is located in the centre of the city,” said mayor Madhu Azad.The green building will have four other meeting halls, waiting rooms for visitors, citizen facilitation centres (CFCs), a cafeteria, an exhibition space, a lodge for councillors, a library, an ATM and spaces for commercial shops. The new building will also have a dispensary, a crèche and a municipal auditorium with a seating capacity of 600 people. A provision has also been made for guest rooms, a gym and a dormitory for the staff in the building.Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar laid the foundation stone for the new MCG office building on Friday, near Vyapar Sadan on the Mehrauli-Gurgaon (MG) Road. The construction of the new MCG office will take nearly two years, said the officials.MCG has been operating from its old office in Gurugram Sector 34, located in the outskirts of the city, near Hero Honda Chowk since February 2015. The Haryana Shahari Vikas Pradhikaran (HSVP) gave the office building to the MCG on rent for ₹20 lakh per month.
12-12-2021||Lucknow||‘18 irrigation projects completed under Yogi’||Lucknow: Jal Shakti minister Mahendra Singh said here on Sunday that under the leadership of chief minister Yogi Adityanath, the Uttar Pradesh government had completed and operationalized 18 irrigation projects, benefiting more than 50 lakh farmers. Addressing a press conference, Singh said nearly 18 projects, including the Saryu Canal National Project, Arjun Sahayak Canal Project and Bansagar Project that were pending for years had been completed and made operational in the past four and a half years of the BJP government. The projects would facilitate the irrigation of an additional 20 lakh hectares of land, benefiting more than 50 lakh farmers of the state, he said. Singh slammed Samajwadi Party national president Akhilesh Yadav over his tweet in which Yadav claimed that three-fourth work of the Saryu Canal National Project was completed under the SP rule whereas the BJP government took four and half years to complete the remaining project. Prime Minister, Narendra Modi inaugurated the Saryu Canal National Project in a programme organized at Balrampur on Saturday. Addressing a public meeting, Modi blamed the previous governments for delaying the canal project and wasting public money. Singh said the Saryu Canal Project was envisaged in 1971-72, while the work started on it in 1978. Initially the project was launched in 1978 to expand irrigation capacity in Bahraich and Gonda districts. In 1982-83, the scope of the project was expanded with the inclusion of nine districts of east UP. It was renamed the Saryu Project. The previous governments neglected the irrigation project, which would have solved many problems of farmers decades ago. The governments did not even bother to allocate sufficient funds for the project so that it could be completed on time. After assuming office in 2017, the Yogi government provided sufficient funds and expedited work on the project, he said. “ ₹5,189 crore was spent on this project from 1978 to 2017, whereas from 2017 till now ₹4,613 crore has been spent by the government. Over 14.50 lakh hectares of land can be irrigated by this project, which will benefit about 30 lakh farmers,” Singh said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/18-irrigation-projects-completed-under-yogi-101639332845254.html
12-12-2021||Lucknow||Yogi launches free food distribution campaign for 150 million beneficiaries||Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Sunday launched a statewide mega campaign for free food distribution twice a month to 15 crore (150 million) beneficiaries through the public distribution network of 80,000 shops. The launch comes about two months before assembly elections in the state. He also distributed free food packets to some beneficiaries immediately after launching the scheme in the presence of law minister Brajesh Pathak, other party leaders and government officials.The scheme will continue till Holi in March. Under it, the beneficiaries will also get packed one kg of pulses, a litre of edible oil, one kg of salt, all once every month, apart from five kg of wheat/rice per unit (family member) per month.The Antyodaya ration card holders (poorest of the poor families) will also have one kg of sugar, too, in addition to 35 kg of wheat/rice per card/family per month. The CM said the free food distribution scheme was started during the second wave of Covid-19.“This is the success of the double-engine government that the BJP government did not let any poor sleep hungry even during the difficult times of pandemic,” he said.Attacking the previous governments of other parties, he said prior to 2017 food distributed through the PDS network was beyond the reach of the poor because of corruption and the lack of a transparent system.“We decided to make the food distribution system transparent after we came to power in 2017 and today beneficiaries get their due without any difficulty,” he said.The CM further said that UP’s pandemic management had been the best with the result that Covid had disappeared from the state that had a population of 25 crore.“But you must not lower your guard,” the chief minister hastened to caution and exhorted people to get vaccinated without any loss of time.The free food distribution for four months, according to a senior government official, will cost the state government exchequer around ₹4800 crore. Beneficiaries are entitled to wheat/rice for nominal charges ( ₹3 per kg rice and ₹2 per kg wheat) at the beginning of every month under the National Food Security Act. “The government has decided to bear the charges for the normal distribution too for four months till March apart from deciding to make another free distribution of food plus pulses, edible oil, salt and sugar in the middle of every month,” he said. At the end of November, the Central government extended the Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Anna Yojana (PMGKAY-Phase-V) by another four months from December 2021 to March 2022.The first phase of the scheme was launched from April to June 2020. It ensures 5kg of wheat/rice free of cost per member per priority household per month and 35 kg wheat rice to each Antyoday family per month. Beneficiaries need to be covered under the National Food Security Act (NFSA). Till now, beneficiaries in UP were getting free ration under the PMGKAY in the middle of every month after they received highly subsidized wheat/rice at the beginning of every month under the regular scheme under the NFSA. The state government decided to bear the cost for the regular distribution too making wheat/rice available to beneficiaries free of cost apart from distributing pulses, edible oil, sugar and salt all free once a month from December 2021 to March 2022.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/yogi-launches-free-food-distribution-campaign-for-150-million-beneficiaries-101639332843568.html
12-12-2021||Pune||197 new Covid-19 cases and nine deaths on Sunday||As of Sunday, Pune district reported 197 new Covid-19 cases and nine deaths due to the infection. This takes the progressive count to 1.16 million of which 1.14 million have recovered, 20,086 is the death toll and 1,667 are active cases currently in hospital undergoing treatment or in home isolation. Pune also saw vaccinations on the day. As per the state health department, Pune rural reported 65 new Covid-19 cases which takes the progressive count to 368,533 and the death toll went up to 6,994 as two more deaths were reported on Sunday. Pune city reported 96 new Covid-19 cases which takes the progressive count to 523,960 and the death toll went up to 9,227 as five more deaths were reported. PCMC reported 36 new Covid-19 cases and the progressive count went up to 270,277. The toll stands at 3,515 as two more deaths were reported in the district on the day. Pune district also saw 43,065 vaccinations on the day as per the CoWin dashboard on Sunday. Of a total of 14,170,757 vaccinations, 8,453,864 are first doses and 5,716,893 are second doses. A total of 384 sites saw vaccinations of which 196 were private centres.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/197-new-covid-19-cases-and-nine-deaths-on-sunday-101639332003815.html
12-12-2021||Lucknow||Mercury plummets as cold wave grips Uttar Pradesh||LUCKNOW: The minimum temperature in the state capital dropped below the 10-degree Celsius mark for the first time this winter, as cold wave gripped most parts of the state on Sunday. The minimum temperature in Lucknow was recorded at 8.4 degrees Celsius which was one degree below normal. The temperature reflected a drop of 5 degrees this week. “Cold winds moving in the state from west to east are the primary reason for the marked drop in temperatures across UP this week. The minimum temperature is expected to drop further by around three degrees in the coming days,” said JP Gupta, director of Uttar Pradesh Met Department. As per the forecast issued by the Indian Meteorological Department (IMD), the minimum temperature across UP is expected to drop by three degrees by next week. Lucknow, as per the forecast, will experience minimum temperature of 8 degrees Celsius on Monday. The drop in temperature will be accompanied by a cold breeze. “A low-pressure atmospheric zone has developed over central and west UP which is responsible for drop in temperature. The low-pressure zone will subside gradually over the next week,” said Gupta. The MeT department has also warned of heavy fog across the state during morning hours. The state Met department has also alerted district authorities about the adverse weather conditions, suggesting to them to make appropriate arrangements to fight the cold. The minimum temperatures in other important cities across UP also plunged on Sunday. While Meerut recorded a minimum temperature of 5 degrees Celsius, the mercury dropped to 7.9 and 7.4 degrees Celsius in Varanasi and Kanpur respectively. The Taj city recorded a minimum temperature of 8.5 degrees Celsius while it was 10.4 degrees Celsius in Gorakhpur. Though the cold wave is expected to affect daily life in the state, according to farm experts it will benefit the farmers by accelerating seed formation in Rabi crops like wheat, mustard and peas.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/mercury-plummets-as-cold-wave-grips-uttar-pradesh-101639331771136.html
12-12-2021||Pune||Funds allocated, work incomplete: How BJP’s PMC is missing the mark||PUNE In the past five years, the Centre has approved various projects for Pune with money also being allocated. However, the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) has failed to execute some of them, as a result the allocated funds likely to be taken back and released at a later date, as work commences. The civic administration and the local leadership of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), despite a clear mandate in the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC), has not been able to execute some of the most ambitious projects, cue the river rejuvenation project, Katraj-Kondhwa road widening, Chandni chowk multilevel flyover, and Railway overbridge at Ghorpadi. All these projects were announced by the BJP’s top leadership, while some of them were even funded by the central government. However in most cases, work is moving at a snail’s pace while in some cases, projects are yet to begin. Earlier on Friday, a month’s deadline was set for the civic body to complete all technical formalities and issue a work order for the Mula-Mutha river pollution abetment project. Earlier in 2016, Bharatiya Janata Party’s (BJP) local unit had felicitated former minister Prakash Javadekar at the Balgandharva auditorium for approving funds for river rejuvenation, which is co-funded by the Japan International Co-operation Agency (Jica). As per the project’s timeline, it has to be completed before January 31, 2022. Though just one month remains for the deadline, work on the ground is at tender level only. Under the Jica project, the civic body proposes to construct 11 new STPs across the city to reduce the pollution of Mula-Mutha river. The project will create an additional sewage treatment capacity of 396 million litres per day (MLD) over the existing 477 MLD, laying of 113.6 km of sewer lines and renovation/rehabilitation of four existing intermediate pumping stations. Reacting to the month’s deadline, Pune Member of Parliament Girish Bapat, who on Friday attended meeting with Union minister Gajendra Singh Shekhawat to discuss various issues, blamed civic administration for delay. “Because PMC administration has not worked actively on river rejuvenation project, there has been delay. Many things were just on paper. We are now reviewing everything,” said Bapat. In the case of the multilevel flyover, work was inaugurated by Union minister Nitin Gadkari. The first two years, work did not start due to land acquisition issues even as Gadkari held many review meetings. Now work is in progress even as it is running late against its timeline. Jagdish Mulik, BJP city unit president, said, “As promised to citizens, we would like to definitely complete all these projects. There are land acquisition issues at Chandani chowk and Katraj-Kondwa road projects. Work at Chandni Chowk is in progress and within a year, it will be complete.” In the case of the Railway overbridges at Ghorpadi and Mundhwa, former defence minister Manohar Parrikar carried out ground breaking. More than six years have completed but the work is still incomplete. Prime Minister Narendra Modi launched the Smart City mission from Pune and many projects were planned, though hardly a few have been completed. The 24x7 equitable water project which was part of the Smart City mission is also going ahead at a very slow pace. In case of the Katraj-Kondhwa road widening, the foundation stone was laid by former chief minister Devendra Fadnavis.Prashant Jagtap, NCP’s city unit president said, “It is an irony that despite having a clear mandate local leadership of BJP has failed to execute the projects which were launched by their own top leaders. Local leadership has embarrassed their top leaders by keeping projects incomplete.” Congress leader Mohan Joshi said, “The BJP has stopped speaking about Smart City and other projects at state and national level as most have not moved further. They need to run to Delhi to save the same projects, which otherwise will be derailed if the money is returned.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/funds-allocated-work-incomplete-how-bjp-s-pmc-is-missing-the-mark-101639331769794.html
12-12-2021||Mumbai||BMC to re-invite fresh tender for Malad STP||Mumbai The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) will float fresh tenders for setting up a Sewage Treatment Plant (STP) at Malad in the western suburbs after it failed to attract the response to the tender floated last time. Earlier in 2020, the BMC had floated tenders for awarding contracts to upgrade and construct new STPs at Worli, Dharavi, Bandra, Versova, Malad and Bhandup. However, the contractors submitted their bids for all the STPs other than the one in Malad.The Malad STP will be constructed on 35 hectares of marshy land with mangrove patches. P Velrasu, additional municipal commissioner (Projects), said that the bidders didn’t show interest earlier because carrying out construction on marshy lands is a complicated process and that the contractors may require high-end amphibious machinery for doing the job. He also said that before setting up the plant, a portion of the land needs to be filled and reclaimed.Velrasu said that the new tender will contain fresh clauses. The new clauses state that instead of paying them for the overall project, the payments will be made on the basis of the targets that they have achieved.“We will mention the exact work that needs to be done step-by-step for the construction of the STP. The payments will be made on the basis of the target of the task completed. Like after the bidder completes reclamation, he will get his payment for that, after the area is cleared of mangroves will get paid for clearing the trees,” Velrasu said. He added that the Mangroves cell has already given permission to the BMC for setting up this sewage plant and the trees that will be cut will be replanted at the forest lands in Thane.He added that the proposed STP will be called an Influent Treatment Station (ITS), which will be an upgraded version of the existing STPs in the city. Besides treating sewage water, the STP will have a capacity to recycle 400 MLDs of water every day, which may be used for various non-potable purposes.Velrasu explained that the treated water will be discharged into the sea through an underwater tunnel. The BMC will be constructing two 4.6 km long tunnels that will connect the STP with the adjoining residential and commercial areas.“The overall cost would vary between ₹4,800- ₹5,200 crore and the contractor will be given the responsibility of regular maintenance for 15 years,” Velrasu said.The BMC has set a six-year target for constructing the Malad STP a year more than the other STPs, for which it has already floated tender and appointed contractors earlier this year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/bmc-to-re-invite-fresh-tender-for-malad-stp-101639331523640.html
12-12-2021||Pune||Aspirants grade MVA govt an ‘F’ for last minute cancellation of Mhada recruitment exam||PUNE As State housing minister Jitendra Awhad cancelled the scheduled Maharashtra Housing and Area Development Authority (MHADA) recruitment test exams at the eleventh hour, aspirants have expressed extreme disappointment and anger, as they were to appear for this examination on Sunday, December 12. The opposition too escalated its attack on the ruling Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government for its overall handling of various exams, be MPSC, health or for MHADA. In all these cases, exams were cancelled with several discrepancies and in some cases papers were allegedly leaked, an embarrassment for the government. This time, the Pune cyber police have arrested three persons while three more suspects have been identified. These suspects, according to Pune police commissioner Amitabh Gupta, were about to leak the paper before exam started, forcing the government to defer the exam till January. The scheduled MHADA recruitment examination was going to be held at various centres across state with more than 275,000 candidates to appear for it on December 12, 15 19 and 20, for jobs under class A, B and C. There were 565 vacant posts in MHADA under various categories which included administration, accounts and survey departments. The application process for the recruitment had started in September 2021 for posts of executive engineer, architect, sub-engineer, administrative officer, assistant legal advisor, junior engineer, junior architect assistant, assistants, clerks, surveyor and several other posts. Speaking about the government’s “mismanagement” in handling the exam, leader of the Opposition Devendra Fadnavis said, the health department recruitment scam leads to the state health department directorate office. Now, the same thing is being witnessed for the MHADA recruitment scam as the examination has been cancelled last movement. “This is the height of corruption, apathy and poor management. Despite this, the MVA government is not speaking up. For how long such things will be tolerated as lakhs of students have suffered due to this. If this government is not able to give jobs then at least don’t play with their emotions. Strict action should be taken on the culprits, but from the state government who is going to take responsibility,” Fadnavis said. Many while expressing anger said minister Awhad was enthusing confidence among candidates till the last moment, that there is nothing wrong with the exam process. However, he announced the “deferring” post-midnight, when candidates had reached major cities to appear for exam. Awhad at 1.54 am on Sunday posted a video of himself announcing that the exam has been deferred for some “unavoidable” reasons. “I apologise to all candidates and announce that due to unavoidable circumstances, examinations to be held on December 12 and on later dates have been deferred. These exam will now be held in January. I am posting the video so late in the night to appeal candidates not to step out and head for exam centres in the morning,” Awhad said. Earlier, in a similar way, the state health department recruitment examinations were scheduled on September 25 and 26. 2021. As the company conducting the exam could not make necessary arrangements and preparations in the time, students faced several technical issues with the hall tickets and examination centres. The exam was cancelled a day prior. Later, it was held on October 24 and 31. Santosh Karade an aspirant from Jalgaon who travelled to Pune to appear for the examination said, “It is so frustrating that at the last movement, a few hours before the examination we are told that exam is cancelled. I came to Pune early on Sunday morning by a private tourist bus for which I had to pay Rs1,000 ticket fare. And also I took two days leave from my current job to appear for this exam. In every recruitment examination there is some problem due to which lakhs of aspirants have to suffer mentally, physically and financially.” Another aspirant Mangala Padhye said, “This MVA government has completely failed in conducting the recruitment examinations and has lost trust of students. Due to Covid-19 pandemic already youth are depressed as there are no jobs, many of them were removed from work and now this paper leakage followed by cancellation of exam is adding to the frustration. Chief minister Uddhav Thackeray should realise the pain and anger of all these students and take strict action against the culprits.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/aspirants-grade-mva-govt-an-f-for-last-minute-cancellation-of-mhada-recruitment-exam-101639331223686.html
12-12-2021||Pune||MHADA exam paper leak: Pune police arrest three, government cancels exam||PUNE: The state government on Sunday deferred recruitment exams for the Maharashtra Housing and Area Development Authority (MHADA), following the arrest of three persons from Pune. The director of a software company that conducts examinations for MHADA is among the three arrested, for their alleged role in leaking the question paper for the recruitment examination that was to be held at multiple locations in Maharashtra, starting Sunday. The MHADA recruitment examination was to be held at various centres across state with more than 275,000 candidates were to appear for jobs under classes ‘A’, ‘B’, and ‘C’. The government had outsourced work of conducting examination to a private firm, whose director along with two others have been arrested by the police. Based on information received during the investigation into the recruitment exam question paper leaking out, Pune police formed multiple teams that went to Pune, Thane, Jalna, Beed, and Aurangabad. A team of police officials in Thane and Pune intercepted a Hyundai Creta car in Vishrantwadi and found three people identified as Santosh Harkal, Ankush Harkal, and Dr Pritish Deshmukh in it. The car was registered in the name of Santosh Harkal in Aurangabad. The three were represented by Advocate Vijaysinh Thombre, Digvijay Thombre, and Hitesh Sonar in court, where they were remanded to police custody till December 18. Dr Deshmukh, director of GS Solution Technologies company, was tasked with conducting MHADA exams that were scheduled for December 12, 15, 19, and 20. Police officials said the company was to handle 14 sets of question papers in three groups each. On the laptop and pen-drive seized from the three, exam-related documents were found, according to Amitabh Gupta, Commissioner of Pune police. The police had received information about possible leak of the MHADA paper during the investigation of the health department paper leak case registered at cyber police station in November. Upon receiving information, the Pune police formed multiple teams and started chasing two groups of people for possible MHADA leak. Two clusters of examinations for high-level posts including executive, assistants, deputy, and junior engineers among others were to be held on Sunday - one in the morning and one in the evening - according to the police. Simultaneously, second team intercepted and arrested three people identified as Ajay Chavan of Target Career Point class, Krushna Jadhav and Ankit Chankhore of Saksham Academy. They were found in possession of documents of three aspirants of MHADA examination. However, in addition to those documents, they were also found in possession of documents belonging to 16 aspirants of health department group C and 35 aspirants of group D examinations. They were also found in possession of blank cheques which are believed to have been given by these aspirants, according to Commissioner Gupta. “There is a sanctity to any examination procedure and we were confident that it was definitely breached by what we found in their possession. There was an entire gang operating from Aurangabad which was supplying these papers and a nexus of coaching classes was also involved. We are not sure how they planned to convey this information to the students,” said Gupta. Nitin Sapatrao Mane, 47, an officer of MHADA in Pune lodged a complaint in the case of paper leak. A separate case was registered under the same sections of Indian Penal Code (IPC) and Maharashtra Prevention of Malpractices at University, Board and other specified Examinations Act, 1982. The new case was registered at cyber polcie station of Pune under Sections 406, 409, 120(b) of IPC along with Sections 3, 5, 6, and 8 of the state law. Postponement announcement on Twitter A state minister took to Twitter to announce the postponement of the examination to January 2022. “While apologising to all the aspiring students, I announce that due to unavoidable and technical difficulties, tomorrow’s exam and the ones scheduled after it have been postponed to January. I’m making this announcement at this hour in the night (2am) to inform the students in time to not leave their houses and go to the exam centre,” said Jitendra Awhad, cabinet minister of Maharashtra, in a video statement he released at 2am on Twitter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/mhada-exam-paper-leak-pune-police-arrest-three-government-cancels-exam-101639331163851.html
12-12-2021||Pune||OBGYN conference at AFMC, Pune highlights holistic treatment||PUNE The department of obstetrics and gynecology, Armed Forces Medical College (AFMC), Pune hosted a national online conference on “Best practices in obstetrics and gynecology” on Saturday and Sunday.Brig SD Khanna Oration was delivered by Surg Vice Adm Punita Arora, PVSM, SM, VSM (Retd). She deliberated upon the science and art of practising medicine. Brig B K Goyal, VSM, in his key note address brought about the changing perceptions, perspectives and practices in obstetrics and gynecology. In her address, Brig Aruna Menon, professor & HoD, dept of obstetrics &gynecology laid stress upon optimising the training and academics of the students so as to deliver the best while treating patients in the military hospitals. She brought out the importance of bridging holistic treatment and evidence-based practice for ensuring the best care in all phases of a woman’s life. She highlighted the new and expanding horizons of our practice in infertility, critical and emergency obstetrics, gynecological oncology, transgender care, robotic surgeries, transplant surgeries, healthy menopausal transition and various new teaching interfaces that are provided by our service hospitals, which was the focus of the conference.Three books, namely, 6th edition of Practical Manual & Handbook for the undergraduates, Current Best Practice Protocols in Obstetrics & Gynecology for the postgraduates and MCQs in Gynecological Oncology were released on this occasion.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/obgyn-conference-at-afmc-pune-highlights-holistic-treatment-101639330629342.html
12-12-2021||Lucknow||UP CM Yogi to launch ‘sujhaav aapka, sankalp hamara’ drive on Dec 15||Chief minister Yogi Adityanath will launch Bharatiya Janata Party’s (BJP’s) “sujhaav aapka, sankalp hamara (your suggestions, our commitment)” campaign in poll-bound Uttar Pradesh on December 15. The campaign is aimed at soliciting people’s opinion and suggestions and incorporating the same in the ruling party’s “sankalp patra” (manifesto) for the 2022 UP polls which is expected to be released in January. Uttar Pradesh minister Suresh Khanna, who heads the “sankalp patra” committee, said the party would place bins across all the 403 assembly segments in the state to help people drop in their suggestions. “Besides, we will also hold dialogues across the state with different groups and collect their feedback,” Khanna said. “Suggestions could also be sent to us on phone, mail or on whatsapp too,” he added. The BJP’s manifesto for 2017 UP polls was released by the then BJP chief Amit Shah who is now the union home minister. 
12-12-2021||Pune||Less govt interference will make start-up ecosystem grow: Piyush Goyal||PUNE Union Minister of Commerce and Industry Piyush Goyal on Sunday shot down demands of more incentives and relaxations for start-ups in government procurement policies. Goyal remarked that ‘the start-up ecosystem in the country will flourish only with the least amount of government interference.’Goyal was speaking at a function organised by the Science and Technology Entrepreneurs Park (STEP) at the Savitribai Phule Pune University (SPPU). He also interacted with several start-up founders and entrepreneurs during the open showcase by product-based start-ups from Pune. Dr Rajendra Jagdale, director general and CEO of STEP; Dr Nitin Karmalkar, vice-chancellor of SPPU; Shruti Singh, joint secretary, DPIIT were present on the occasion.Addressing the start-up ecosystem stakeholders from Pune, Goyal said, “Nationalisation has stymied the growth of several sectors like banking as seen in the past. If we allow entrepreneurs to flourish, with least amount of government interference, they can scale in their operation and come up with affordable and cost-effective solutions. We are giving several incentives to start-ups and we can keep adding as much as we want. But at the end of the day, I personally feel that the less the government interferes in the start-up ecosystem, the more potential it will have to be successful.”“Clutches will only help in the short term. If we really want this start-up ecosystem to survive and go to great lengths, then we will have to let it work on its own. I think none of the unicorns may have got any reservation in government procurement or none would have taken government support to become unicorns. Government can only play a limited role and work in a partnership model where the government can be a facilitator while the success and architecture of the ecosystem will be defined by entrepreneurs,” Goyal added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/less-govt-interference-will-make-start-up-ecosystem-grow-piyush-goyal-101639330204037.html
12-12-2021||Lucknow||End e-KYC provision for PM KISAN beneficiaries: CPI demands Centre||Taking exception to introduction of e-KYC provision for beneficiaries of the Pradhan Mantri Kisan Samman Nidhi (PM KISAN) scheme, the Communist Party of India (CPI) on Sunday demanded the Centre to immediately withdraw this “diktat” and also pay remaining instalments to the beneficiaries who were yet to get all of them.CPI state secretary Girish (who goes by his first name only) alleged that the central and the state governments often put such conditions as it became very difficult for beneficiaries to avail themselves of welfare schemes and the introduction of the e-KYC provision, he added, was the latest example. He said that though the government had released nine instalments under the scheme so far but a number of farmers had received none or received only one or two instalments. “Now, when the government is going to release the 10th instalment on December 15, a new hurdle has been created by requiring beneficiaries to get e-KYC of their bank accounts done,” he said.Girish said 99% farmers were not tech-savvy and they would find compelled to do rounds of common service centres to get e-KYC done and waste time and money in the process. “The government must withdraw this provision in the interest of farmers,” he demanded.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/end-e-kyc-provision-for-pm-kisan-beneficiaries-cpi-demands-centre-101639329843188.html
12-12-2021||Pune||Junnar’s Shivneri Alphonso in race to get GI tag||PUNE Alphonso growers from Junnar Tehsil and Pune district administration have set out on a mission to find the difference between Alphonso from Ratnagiri and Shivneri Alphonso (mango grown in Junnar, Ambegaon Tehsil). The administration has roped in research institutes to study the difference between these two varieties of mangoes and prove the uniqueness of Shivneri Alphonso in order to get the geographical indication (GI) status for the same. Funds of ₹26 lakhs from district planning committee have been allotted for this project.“The Alphonso mango producers in Junnar have claimed that the taste and quality of this mango is different from the ones which come from Konkan. This year funds have been made available through the district planning committee to get the geographical indication. The process is going on. The chemical tests on Konkan Hapus and Shivneri hapus are being conducted. We appointed Krishi Vigyan Kendra Narayangaon as a middle agency to create a proposal for the GI status,” said Dnyaneshwar Bote, district agriculture officer Pune.Mango producers from Junnar and Ambegaon have come together to get the GI tag for this fruit. According to them GI is essential as it creates a brand and ensures quality for the consumers. “Shivneri Alphonso has been going to Washi market. It is very popular there and it has been exported as well. We want a GI tag because it creates a brand,” said Ravindra Kajale, a farmer from Junnar.Alphonso mango from Ratnagiri has already been given the GI status. Now to get the GI tag for Shivneri Alphonso difference between these two mangoes has to be proven. “We have registered farmers producers’ organisations with four groups from Ambegaon and seven groups from Junnar. For GI status, application has to be submitted . It should have information such as what is the difference between Konkan Alphonso and Shivneri Alphonso, what are the feedbacks from consumers and what are the opinions of the traders,” said Bote.Explaining the difference, Nitin Kale who owns a farm of Shivneri Alphonso in Junnar said, “The main difference is that when the season of Konkan Alphonso comes to an end, our fruits come to market. So usually, the rate of Shivneri Alphonso is higher. There is a difference between aroma and the taste. The soil is also different so naturally the two fruits will have different characteristics. Mangoes from my farm have been exported to Japan.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/junnars-shivneri-alphonso-in-race-to-get-gi-tag-101639329787273.html
12-12-2021||Lucknow||Akhilesh hits back at PM’s ‘red cap’ remark||Samajwadi Party (SP) national president Akhilesh Yadav on Sunday took a jibe at Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s recent “red cap” remark and said the issue was not the colour of the cap but how the BJP tackled inflation, unemployment and hunger. Addressing a press conference at the SP state headquarters, he said, “The question is not of the colour of the cap but whether the BJP wants to address inflation, unemployment and hunger issues. When will the government with a double engine make the road connecting Uttar Pradesh with Nepal?” In a veiled attack on the SP, PM Modi on Tuesday termed those with “red caps” as red alert for Uttar Pradesh and said that they wanted to form the government in the state to show mercy to terrorists and set them free.“Today, the entire Uttar Pradesh knows well that those with red caps have been concerned with the red beacon not with your miseries. Red cap people need power for scams to fill their coffers, for illegal occupations and to give a free hand to the mafia,” PM Modi had said while addressing an event in Balrampur. Red cap is one of the two colours in the Samajwadi Party flag and the party workers and leaders often wear red caps. Akhilesh addressed the press conference after several leaders from different parties, including BSP leaders and one BJP MLA, joined his party.Slamming the UP government, Akhilesh said, “Today BJP wants to rule by intimidating and killing people like the British did. In the coming times, the public will work to teach a lesson to the BJP. Nowadays, the CM is giving advertisements for distributing tablets, smart phones in newspapers. Which tablet (he meant pills) were you (BJP government) giving to public for four-and-a-half years?” “This is a discriminatory government. When the Ambedkarites and the socialists sit together, the BJP is sure to be eliminated from Uttar Pradesh. There are many such incidents in UP that are questionable,” the SP chief said. Uttar Pradesh is scheduled to go to assembly polls in 2022. In the 2017 UP assembly election, the Bharatiya Janata Party bagged 312 seats in the 403-seat UP Assembly while Samajwadi Party (SP) bagged 47 seats, Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) won 19 and Congress could manage to win only seven seats. The rest of the seats were bagged by other candidates. 
12-12-2021||Pune||Social worker duped of ₹6.3 L by man claiming to have contacts at Mumbai dockyard||PUNE A social worker was duped by a man who falsely promised supply of BSIV vehicles at a subsidised rate from Mumbai. The transactions collectively amounting to ₹6,35,000 were made by the complainant in October 2020.A complaint in the matter was lodged by a 29-year-old resident of Lohegaon . He had approached a man, one of the accused, after overhearing him talk about having contacts at Mumbai dockyard. “He is a social activist and met one of the accused during his daily night walks, according to his complaint. He told us that he approached this man after overhearing him say that he could supply vehicles at a less cost,” said police sub-inspector AR Gandhale of Vimantal police station.While one transaction was made for ₹2,35,000 to the main accused man’s account, the other one was to another person’s account for ₹4,00,000, according to the complainant.A case under Sections 420 (cheating) and 406 (criminal breach of trust) of Indian Penal Code was registered at Vimantal police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/social-worker-duped-of-6-3-l-by-man-claiming-to-have-contacts-at-mumbai-dockyard-101639329123204.html
12-12-2021||Pune||MACT awards ₹76 lakh compensation to 2018 accident victim||PUNE The Maharashtra Accident Claims Tribunal (MACT) , Pune has awarded a compensation of ₹76 lakh to the next of kin of a mechanical engineers family who was killed in a road accident in Kunjirwadi in 2018. The 35-year-old victim was on the two-wheeler along with a pillion rider when their vehicle was hit by a speeding pick-up vehicle which led to his accidental death. His 28-year-old wife, two children and parents had approached the tribunal seeking compensation for his accidental death. The family members in their petition had claimed a compensation of ₹80 lakh stating that their only earning family member who worked with a prominent company was earning ₹35,000 per month. The petition was filed against a private insurance company where the pick-up vehicle was insured. The decision to award the compensation was taken during the Lok Adalat held in Pune recently. Advocate Ashish Patni and Anil Patni represented the deceased family before the forum while advocate Rishikesh Ganu represented the insurance company in the case. The counsel to the claimants expressed their satisfaction at the decision given by the tribunal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/mact-awards-76-lakh-compensation-to-2018-accident-victim-101639328943271.html
12-12-2021||Lucknow||AKTU students intensify drive for online exams after CM Yogi’s 3rd wave tweet||Students of Dr APJ Abdul Kalam Technical University (AKTU), Lucknow, intensified their virtual campaign for online exams soon after chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Sunday in his tweet spoke about fear of third Covid wave and said the state government was fully prepared to deal with it.In the wake of the threat of new Covid variant Omicron, the chief minister tweeted, “Fears of third wave of Corona are being expressed. The central and the state governments are fully prepared to deal with it. We have provided best health facilities to the common man. We are taking forward the big campaign of providing free test, free vaccine and free food grains.”Soon a number of AKTU students took to social media to draw the chief minister’s attention towards their semester exams beginning on December 28. Tagging CM, a Twitter handle Aktuchatrasangh tweeted, “AKTU scheduled semester exam from December 28 especially at a time when Section 144 has been imposed in the state and people are in grip of fear of Corona. Students are not ready for offline exam.” The user has appealed to chief minister to direct vice chancellor to conduct online exam only.The students have also sought intervention of governor Anandiben Patel, chancellor of the university, for cancellation of offline exam. They are against the offline December semester exams as declared by the university. Engineering students are running hashtags on twitter as they fear offline exams require students to travel to their colleges or to exam centres for which they are not prepared. The students argue they are not against exam but want university to make it hybrid (both offline and online) so that students may have the choice.“AKTU wants to hold offline exam despite knowing that Omicron is increasing these days. On the other hand, all other universities are holding their exams online. Parents are worried about their children,” reads a tweet sent out by one Ravi with #aktuOnlineExam. Students even cited MP chief minister Shivraj Singh Chauhan’s December 6 tweet in which he said exam at the Rajiv Gandhi Technological University be held online for convenience of students.A student asked why AKTU could not provide the option for both online and offline exams: “When other state’s university (MP) can do the same for students residing in villages, the same can be done here too. There is still time. Please think you are playing with mental health!”In another tweet, tagging the university, another student said, “Please help AKTU students. The university is taking exams in offline mode. It is difficult for many students to reach their centres and write exams. We are demanding for blended mode (online & offline) both so students have an option to decide.”When contacted, AKTU vice chancellor prof Vineet Kansal said the university was keeping a watch on the situation. “Given the present situation, exam will be held offline and students must prepare for it. More than two lakh candidates are to appear in December exam,” he said. Technical education secretary Alok Kumar said they were watching the situation and instead of the online campaign, the students must concentrate on studies.
12-12-2021||Pune||3 dead, several injured after as truck rams into 3 vehicles on Pune-Mumbai expressway||PUNE Three people were killed and 10-12 people sustained injuries after a truck driver lost control and rammed into three other heavy vehicles including a passenger bus along the Pune-Mumbai Expressway, officials said on Sunday morning. The deceased have been identified as Jagdish Kumar (50), Nitesh Dashrath Kamble (28) and Mohammad Bablu Sultan (26) while the identity of the injured truck driver could not be ascertained immediately. He is undergoing treatment, said officials. According to officials, the truck is registered in Madhya Pradesh and was heading towards Mumbai when the driver rammed into a moving bus, sending it off-course and into a stationary mixer truck which was deployed for the ongoing concretisation work on the expressway, late on Saturday night. “Jagdish Kumar was the driver of the mixer truck while Kamble and Sultan were labourers working on the site. The Madhya Pradesh registered truck then went ahead and rammed into another truck (registered in Maharashtra). At least 10 passengers on the bus sustained minor injuries,” said Amol Dhaygude, constable at Khopoli police station. The driver and cleaner on the truck registered in Maharashtra have suffered severe injuries and have been rushed to nearby hospitals. All the injured have been rushed to different hospitals in Pune, Panvel, and Khopoli. A case in the matter is being registered at Khopoli police station, said officials.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/3-dead-several-injured-after-as-truck-rams-into-3-vehicles-on-pune-mumbai-expressway-101639328523436.html
12-12-2021||Other||Bihar panchayat polls: Villagers halt voting for hours over two killings||The 11th and the final phase elections of the Panchayati Raj Institutions (PRI) was held up for about four hours on Sunday to protest the killing of two persons, including a candidate who was contesting for the post of ward member in the elections, said police. Irate villagers blocked the a Alamnagar-Madhepura road, demanding immediate arrest of the culprits and also called for the elections to be deferred. However, police and local administration were able to persuade the agitators and voting started at around 11 am. Later, the bodies were sent to Madhepura Sadar hospital for postmortem.On Saturday night, supporters of two candidates contesting for the post of mukhiya, clashed with each other resulting in a shootout at Ward number 7 of Bargaon panchayat under Ratwara police station in Madepura, police said. The deceased have been identified as Brij Mohan Patel (32) and Nathuni Sharma(45) while one person, identified as Chhotu Kumar (18) is undergoing treatment at Jan Nayak Karpoori Thakur Medical college and hospital, Madhepura, police added.According to locals, the husbands of both the women contestants, identified as Ranvijay Kumar(husband of Shanti Devi) and Birendra Singh (husband of Lalita Devi), got into a scuffle at Ward number 7, which turned into violence. Eyewitnesses told police that Birendra Singh fired indiscriminately, which resulted in casualties. Subdivisional police officer (SDPO) Satish Kumar said the accused have been identified and four persons have been arrested. “Raids are being carried out to arrest Birendra Singh who has been absconding since the incident,” he said. Till the filing the report no FIR has been lodged.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/bihar-panchayat-polls-villagers-halt-voting-for-hours-over-two-killings-101639328103367.html
12-12-2021||Pune||Ghole road to house mega-library with at least 50,000 books and digital section with 40 computers||PUNE The first city library of Pune is set to come up at Ghole road as the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) recently sanctioned ₹6.71 crore for construction of the three-storey building, which will house a library, study hall and digital section. The library will have 50,000 books and at least 40 computers, making it the largest library in Maharashtra .Siddhartha Shirole, Shivajinagar legislator reviewed its proposed design and project timeliness on Sunday said that the total cost of the project is ₹13 crore and work will begin in a month. “ A presentation of the library work conducted by the authorities and the work order for the same was approved four months ago. Currently, the process of shifting the existing printing press is underway. The demolition of the old building will take place in a month after which the library building will be constructed afresh,” he said.The library will be developed on a plot currently occupied by the old printing press of the civic body. The building, which is in a dilapidated condition, will be demolished to make way for the new library.The library is a brainchild of BJP Corporator Jyotsana Ekbote who had pushed for its construction in the area citing that the city was an educational hub for students across the world. According to the administration, the library will be a parking plus three-storey building with a construction area of 5,595.61 sq metre. The first floor will house a commercial office and a mess that will be given on lease to generate revenue for the corporation .The second floor will have a library, waiting room, magazine and newspaper department, new books department, reading room, meeting room, the office , a book gallery and modern reading room facility, while the third floor will include a sprawling study hall and ultra-modern digital library for the end users. The library will have seating capacity for 100 persons and its parking facility will accommodate 64 cars, 315 scooters and 100 two-wheelers. The library will have round the clock surveillance with the help of CCTV cameras and private security guards will deployed for maintaining safety and security at the place.Union Minister Prakash Javadekar has sanctioned ₹2 crore for the project from the MP Local Area Development funds while PMC has allocated ₹6.71 crore for the project.PMC standing Committee Chairman Hemant Rasane said, the civic body owns Maharshi Mamarao Date printing press building which has grown old and dilapidated. We are constructing a spacious and futuristic building for the next generation of students and readers of Pune.”Union Minister Prakash Javadekar has sanctioned ₹2 crore for the project from the MP Local Area Development funds while PMC has allocated ₹6.71 crore for the project. PMC standing Committee Chairman Hemant Rasane said, the civic body owns Maharshi Mamarao Date printing press building which has grown old and dilapidated. We are constructing a spacious and futuristic building for the next generation of students and readers of Pune.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/ghole-road-to-house-mega-library-with-at-least-50-000-books-and-digital-section-with-40-computers-101639327923350.html
12-12-2021||Patna||Last phase of panchayat polls records 62.81% voting||PATNA: The 11th and concluding phase of panchayat polls recorded 62.81 % polling at 8067 polling booths spread over 38 blocks in 20 districts on Sunday, officials said.. As per the data, West Champaran and Purnea recorded highest poll percentage of 71.48% and 70.58% while Madhubani and Vaisali recorded lowest poll percentage of 53.32% and 53.88%.A total of 100 persons were arrested on charges of flouting election rules while five vehicles were seized. The fate of 63,718 candidates was decided today for 17,286 posts in the three tier rural local bodies.The panchayat polls had began on September 24 and was conducted in eleven phases to fill up 2.55 lakh posts in the three tier rural local bodies and gram kutcheries.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/last-phase-of-panchayat-polls-records-62-81-voting-101639327805557.html
12-12-2021||Patna||Sadhu Yadav demands probe into Lalu and family’s properties||Intensifying his attack against RJD, party chief Lalu Prasad’s estranged brother-in-law Anirudh Prasad alias Sadhu Yadav on Sunday said he would write to Prime Minister Narendra Modi demanding a probe into the properties of Prasad, his sons and other party leaders. “I will write to the PM for a probe into the properties of the RJD chief and his family members. I would also want my properties to be assessed,” he said while talking to a Hindi news channel. The former Gopalganj MP has been seemingly annoyed over his nephew and leader of the opposition Tejashwi Prasad Yadav’s decision to have an inter-caste marriage. Reacting to the indirect attack against him by Lalu’s elder son Tej Pratap Yadav and second daughter Rohini Archarya, the former Gopalganj MP also lashed out at the RJD chief, “Laluji should refrain his children from making offensive statements against me. Or else, I will expose them all,” Yadav said. On Saturday, Tej Pratap and Rohini Archarya in Twitter posts took oblique potshots at their maternal uncle. Rohini, in a tweet, indirectly described the former Gopalganj MP as “Kansa” (maternal uncle of Lord Krishna known for his misdeeds in mythology) stating that Kansa are existing even today. Tej Pratap too indirectly attacked Yadav saying he would take him on once he arrives in Patna. The former Gopalganj MP, in his interaction with newsmen, also lashed out at the RJD chief alleging the latter ignored his in-laws and defamed them despite them having supported him. Asked whether his outburst against his sister’s family was because he was not invited to Tejashwi’s wedding, Yadav denied it. “I am hurt because the wedding took place in a hush-hush manner,” he said. Meanwhile, the ruling JD(U) has not reacted to the outbursts of Yadav against Lalu’s family. “We will not comment on it as it is a family matter. We have nothing to say,” said JD(U)’s senior leader Ajay Alok. Congress legislature party leader Ajeet Sharma too said he would not comment on it.. 
12-12-2021||Bangalore||CDS Rawat death: Mysuru man arrested for ‘offensive’ social media post||Two days after Karnataka chief minister Basavaraj Bommai directed the state police to take action against those making ‘offensive’ social media posts on Chief of Defence Staff (CDS) General Bipin Rawat, police in Mysuru informed on Sunday it has arrested a 40-year-old man for a ‘derogatory’ post on the late defence chief.Also Read | Offensive posts about Gen Rawat's chopper crash won't be tolerated: Karnataka CMAnnouncing the arrest, the police said that the man is from Mysuru, and works as a lab technician in a city-based hospital.On Saturday, the state's Mangaluru Police booked two social media users for alleged objectionable posts against General Rawat, the country's first and sitting CDS, who was among 14 people on board an Indian Air Force (IAF) helicopter, which crashed in Tamil Nadu's Nilgiris district on Wednesday. The crash resulted in the demise of 13 people, including the former army chief and his wife, Madhulika Rawat.Also Read | Karnataka police book two for ‘objectionable’ posts on CDS Rawat’s death“Offensive Tweets and Social Media posts about the tragic chopper crash in which we lost our #CDSGeneralBipinRawat will not be tolerated. I strongly condemn all such messages and have instructed our Police Officials to take strict disciplinary legal action against the offenders. They should be booked immediately as this is absolutely unpardonable,” chief minister Bommai tweeted on Friday. They should be booked immediately as this is absolutely unpardonable.In the wake of the Chief of Defence Staff's death, various state governments, including in his native state Uttarakhand, have instructed the respective police departments to take action those making ‘derogatory’ posts against him. Arrests have been made in Tamil Nadu and Rajasthan as well for tweets in connection with the helicopter crash.Meanwhile, in Kerala, a filmmaker, who said he was ‘hurt’ by smiley emojis on reports of the chopper crash, announced he is ‘renouncing’ Islam and will become a Hindu with his wife.(With PTI inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/cds-rawat-death-mysuru-man-arrested-for-offensive-social-media-post-101639325394496.html
12-12-2021||Patna||Nitish govt writes to NITI Aayog, seeks spl status for Bihar||The Nitish Kumar government in Bihar has made a fresh pitch for grant of special category status to the state, a demand it has been making for the “past 10-12 years”.In a letter to NITI Aayog vice chairman Rajiv Kumar, Bijendra Yadav, the state minister for planning and implementation, asserted that Bihar “fulfilled all the criteria” set for grant of special status.The minister sought to join the issue with NITI Aayog over its recent report on multidimensional poverty index in which Bihar was placed at the bottom in the country.The report was latched on to by the opposition which has been using it to rubbish the claim of “rapid development” of the state since Nitish Kumar’s ascent to power.In his letter, the minister admitted that Bihar stood way below the national average when it came to indicators like per capita income, ease of living and human development.Yadav blamed the state of affairs on “peculiar problems” of “landlocked” Bihar which had a high density of population with scarce natural resources and was plagued by vicissitudes like drought and flood that affected more than half of its districts.The minister also complained of “lack of initiative” on part of the Centre for setting up public sector units in Bihar which could give a fillip to “industrial growth and technical education” in the state.Besides, Bihar “remained deprived of the benefits of the Green Revolution”, the minister said, highlighting the suboptimal agricultural development in the state.Despite these limitations imposed by geography and history, the state had registered a “robust growth rate in the last decade and a half” and achieved “development with justice”, Yadav said. He also claimed that there are improvements in farming, power, roads and overall quality of governance.Pointing out that NITI Aayog has been set up with the aim of economic “transformation” of the country, Yadav stressed that the same cannot be accomplished without transforming Bihar.The grant of special category status will reduce the state’s liabilities with regard to welfare schemes and put the government in a position to dole out “tax rebates” and “financial subsidies” to attract private investment which could accelerate the growth engine further, the minister said. The demand for special category status gained currency after the creation of Jharkhand in 2000 which stripped Bihar of the area rich in mineral reserves.Kumar upped the ante when he famously proclaimed in 2009 that he would support “any government at the Centre” that agreed to the demand. This was followed, a few years later, by a signature campaign wherein crores of citizens of the state were roped in to press the demand for “vishesh rajya ka darza”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/nitish-govt-writes-to-niti-aayog-seeks-spl-status-for-bihar-101639327383308.html
12-12-2021||Lucknow||Prayagraj: Army gets 26 new chopper pilots||An impressive valedictory function was held at Basic Flying Training School (BFTS) at Air Force Station, Bamrauli, to mark the successful completion of flying training of 26 army aviators of the 208 Army Pilots Course on Saturday. These aviators went through rigorous flying and ground training during the past five months under the guidance of the Commanding Officer Group Captain Amit Hari Kulkarni, Indian Air Force (IAF) officials said. BFTS is a premier flying training establishment of the Indian Air Force (IAF) located in Prayagraj. Air Commodore AK Chourasia, Air Officer Commanding, Air Force Station-Bamrauli was the reviewing officer for the valedictory function. He was received by Group Captain Amit Hari Kulkarni, Commanding Officer of Basic Flying Training School, IAF. During the valedictory function, Air Commodore AK Chourasia presented certificates to the graduating officers and trophies to those who excelled during the course of training. Captain Atul Tomar stood first in ground subjects, Captain Ashish Kataria was awarded the trophy for being first in flying and also won the trophy for “Best in Overall Order of Merit.” Squadron Leader Anurag Saini and Squadron Leader R Karthik shared the trophy for the Best Instructor (QFI). While addressing the gathering, Air Commodore AK Chourasia congratulated the officers, particularly those who excelled and won the trophies. He praised BFTS for its rich tradition of transforming young officers into skilled aviators. While highlighting the role of these pilots in the time of transforming technology in aviation, Air Commodore Chourasia reminded them, “Military Aviators of Helicopters have no margin for error while saving lives and evacuating people.” The Reviewing Officer also urged the officers to keep themselves updated on the requirement and nature of future battles. The Air Officer lauded BFTS for its rich tradition of instilling professionalism and excellence in the young aviators abiding by the institutions’ motto “Setting Higher Standards.” The reviewing officer also urged officers to keep themselves updated about the requirement and nature of future battles. BFTS was established on December 16, 1987, to impart training to pilots on HPT-32 aircraft. On July 5, 1999, the school changed its role from training flight cadets of IAF to training officers of the Indian Army, Navy and Coast Guard. The school was re-equipped with Chetak helicopters on December 26, 2005, for imparting flying training to Army officers on helicopters.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/prayagraj-army-gets-26-new-chopper-pilots-101639327096454.html
12-12-2021||Lucknow||One killed, seven injured as UPSRTC bus rams into tree||One person was killed, while seven others were injured when a bus of Uttar Pradesh State Road Transport Corporation (UPSRTC), being driven by its conductor, and ferrying around 60 passengers, met with an accident in Sultanpur district on Saturday midnight, said police officials on Sunday.Sultanpur Superintendent of Police (SP) Vipin Mishra said the incident took place near Basgaon village under Gosaiganj police station limits of Sultanpur when the bus rammed into a tree while on its way from Azamgarh to Lucknow. He said initial investigations suggest that the bus was being driven by its conductor Raj Kumar and the driver Ram Pratap Saini was sleeping at the time of the incident. He said the detailed report about the incident will be sent to the UPSRTC authorities for further action.Sharing further details, the SP said the deceased was identified as Birbal Kumar, 46, of Ghazipur district. He said the deceased’s family has been informed about the incident, and all assistance is being provided to them. He said seven injured people include Nadeem Ahmad, 40, Kasim Ahmad, 36, Anil Gupta, 45, Rohit Yadav, 40, Kamla Devi, 55, Vinod Kumar, 39, and Vivek Kumar Gupta, 38. He said the condition of four injured is serious, and they are undergoing treatment at Sultanpur district hospital, while others have been discharged after the treatment. He said other passengers of the bus were sent to their destination by arranging another bus.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/one-killed-seven-injured-as-upsrtc-bus-rams-into-tree-101639326663500.html
12-12-2021||Lucknow||Prayagraj: Five girl students injured in mud mound collapse||At least five girl students were injured when a mud mound collapsed during digging at Kasturba Gandhi Residential School at Gohri village, under Phaphamau police station of trans-Ganga area on Sunday morning. The girls were rescued and admitted to Beli hospital by the locals. The locals alleged that the girls were engaged in digging the mud by the school authorities. According to reports, the girls were digging from a mud mound for levelling the ground near a septic tank. Suddenly, the upper part of the mound collapsed on the girl students. Locals rushed to the spot and started the rescue work. However, the hard mud made it difficult to rescue the trapped girls. More villagers rushed to the site with tools and freed the girls. The injured, namely Varsha, 13, Ankita, 12, Rangili, 14, Deeksha, 9, and Sakshi, 7, all residents of Gohri village, were taken to a nearby hospital where the doctors referred them to Beli hospital in the city. The injured girls’ kin and villagers later reached the school and alleged that school management had engaged the girls in digging mud. They claimed that school management often asked the girls to do different chores instead of studying. SHO of Phaphamau police station Anil Kumar Verma said a force has been deployed at the school as a precautionary measure. The condition of the girls is out of danger, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/prayagraj-five-girl-students-injured-in-mud-mound-collapse-101639326242969.html
12-12-2021||Lucknow||Pilibhit Tiger Reserve to get elephants from Karnataka||Pilibhit Tiger Reserve (PTR), located in the western UP district of Pilibhit, will soon have elephants from Karnataka, river reserve officials said on Sunday. A team of forest officials have already been sent to Bengaluru to examine and assess the health of prospective elephants.Naveen Khandelwal, deputy director of PTR, said, “The team of experts will assess the training and examine the elephants to ascertain their condition. Once this is done based on the recommendation by the experts, the elephants will be brought to PTR. This entire exercise would take another two months.”As per the plan, the PTR is planning to bring five elephants to the reserve by the end of next year. One of the youngest tiger reserves in the country, PTR is located in the Terai belt of Uttar Pradesh, bordering Nepal. A hotspot for the Tigers population, the environment is deemed fit to sustain elephants. Dudhwa Tiger Reserve, located adjacent to PTR, has elephants.“The environment in PTR is suitable to sustain elephants. Besides, we also need elephants to carry out several routine works, including patrolling inside the core area of the reserve,” said the officer.As per forest officials, the elephants will also help in reducing tiger-human conflict, which is prevalent in several areas of PTR. Currently, the PTR officials request elephants from nearby Dudhwa Tiger Reserve to track any big cat which enters farms outside the core area of the reserve forest.Besides elephants, the forest officials have also proposed to introduce rhinos in PTR.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/pilibhit-tiger-reserve-to-get-elephants-from-karnataka-101639325522809.html
12-12-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab excise officers on pen-down strike from December 15-17||The Punjab excise and taxation department officers serving at different levels on Sunday announced to proceed on a three-day pen-down strike from December 15 to 17, followed by mass casual leave from December 20, to push for their pending demands.The association of the excise and taxation department, senior officers’ association and excise and taxation officers’ association decided this in a joint meeting held through virtual mode.They resolved that no official work will be done during the three-day pen-down strike, such as issuance of registration certificates, assessments, refunds, road checking, issuance of pass and permits in districts as well as distilleries, breweries and bottling plants. However, the officers will continue to perform election-related duties assigned to them. In the meeting, the officers said that the Punjab government was meting a stepmotherly treatment to the department and not giving attention to the demands raised by them. They also alleged lower pay scales and harassment by the state’s vigilance department.According to officer-bearers of the three department associations, the department has been downgraded in the Sixth Pay Commission’s recommendations, and the demand for upgrading pay scales of senior officers has also been ignored. The associations also objected to the “injustice meted out to officers by the vigilance bureau against whom no evidence could be found for alleged corruption”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-excise-officers-on-pen-down-strike-from-december-1517-101639324382882.html
12-12-2021||Chandigarh||‘Will not be a showpiece’ to win elections, says Sidhu||Punjab Congress president Navjot Singh Sidhu on Sunday said that he will not be a showpiece and never lie to people of Punjab to win elections. Sidhu, who was interacting with people at a programme here, said that responsibility makes one better or bitter, and his experience after making three governments in the state has been bitter. “In this system, a good man is made a showpiece. He is kept as a pawn for winning elections, and after campaigning, he is made a showpiece. I will not be a showpiece, never speak lies to come to power,” he said in response to a question on whether he would be made the chief minister in case the Congress wins the upcoming assembly polls in Punjab. Sidhu said he has never demanded anything from anyone. He also said that he is committed to (Congress leaders) Priyanka Gandhi Vadra and Rahul Gandhi, who are both “good people and not artificial”. “I have given my word to them and will not leave them. I will stick to my word for the people of the state, not for power. Whatever responsibility I am given, I will fulfil it, but I will never betray Punjab,” the Punjab Congress chief said. Sidhu also hit out at Aam Aadmi Party national convener and Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on the state of education in the national capital, accusing him of selling lies in Punjab.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-congress-chief-sidhu-says-i-will-not-be-a-showpiece-101639324322842.html
12-12-2021||Mumbai||Amid Omicron concerns, test positivity rate stays below 1% in Mumbai||Mumbai Although Mumbai has recorded five positive Omicron cases in the past week, the overall positivity rate is below 1%, with the daily caseload for the Covid-19 cases steady at less than 300 for the last four weeks. Meanwhile, officials of the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) on Sunday said that the situation is well under control. Dr Mangla Gomare, the executive health officer in the BMC, said that the daily positivity rate is below 1%, which means that the situation is satisfactory.“Regularly, more than a thousand samples are collected for RT-PCR tests from the Mumbai airport, out of which only five tested positive now. Most of them are either asymptomatic or have mild symptoms. Not a single patient required oxygen support or ventilation, which clearly shows that the effects of this new variant have not been very intense,” Gomare told HT.She also added that the intensity of the spread is also not very high as labelled by international experts. “We were told that the rate of transmission of Omicron is very high compared to earlier variants. However, we have tracked all the close contacts and 99% of them were negative. While during the emergence of the delta variant earlier this year, the rate of transmission was much higher as there would be multiple cases in one family,” Gomare said.Dr Shashank Joshi, a member of the Covid 19 task force in Maharashtra, said that the clinical outcome of the Omicron is mild. “Currently, Omicron in India including Maharashtra and Mumbai is sporadic and travel-related. There is no community transmission or cluster cases reported till now. Even in countries like South Africa, Denmark and the UK, which showed a spike in cases because of this variant, there has been a decline recently,” said Joshi.“Still, we have a long way to go before coming to any conclusion and keep adhering to Covid-appropriate behaviour,” said Joshi.On Sunday, 187 fresh cases were reported in Mumbai and a total of 40,031 tests were conducted in the city. A total of two Covid deaths were reported on Sunday and the recovery rate stood at 97%.Dr Balkrishna Adsul, dean of the Seven Hills Hospital in Andheri East, where the Omicron positive patients are undergoing treatment, said that on Sunday, three out of the five patients were discharged from the hospital.“At present, we have two patients who have tested positive of Omicron variant undergoing treatment. Both of them have travel history from Tanzania and Nairobi. We are conducting RT-PCR tests of the positive patients after every 10 days, and if the report comes negative, we are discharging them with due care,” said Adsul. Furthermore, he added that so far 54 patients including the High-Risk-Contacts of the Omicron positive patients were admitted to Seven Hills for treatment as a precautionary measure.“More than 90 per cent of the close contacts tested negative and those who are positive have very mild symptoms. This is because most of them are vaccinated and younger in age,” Adsul said.Dr Gautam Bhansali from Bombay Hospital said that at present, there are two suspected Omicron patients admitted to his hospital. “One of the patients have no symptoms at all and another person lost the sense of smell. We have sent their samples for genome sequencing and the report for the same is expected to arrive on Monday or Tuesday,” said Bhansali.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/amid-omicron-concerns-test-positivity-rate-stays-below-1-in-mumbai-101639322822971.html
12-12-2021||Chandigarh||Chief election commissioner to visit Punjab on December 15||Chief election commissioner Sushil Chandra will be in Punjab on a two-day visit from December 15. Accompanied by election commissioners and other senior officers of the Election Commission of India, Chandra will take stock of preparedness for the state assembly elections due in early 2022. On December 15, the commission will hold meetings with representatives of national- and state-level recognised parties, chief electoral officer and nodal officers of state police and central armed police forces. Later, during the day, the commission will also meet various enforcement agencies. The next day, the commission will hold interaction with a section of voters with disabilities and young voters. It is also expected to oversee systematic voters’ education and electoral participation activities conducted by the state electoral office. Chandra and others will also meet with deputy commissioners and police chiefs of all 23 districts before concluding the two-day visit with a meeting with the state chief secretary and director general of police, stated a release.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chief-election-commissioner-to-visit-punjab-on-december-15-101639322762638.html
12-12-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab logs 42 fresh Covid cases||Punjab on Sunday recorded 42 fresh Covid-19 cases, while no virus-related death was reported on the day, according to a medical bulletin of the state health department.Among the fresh cases, Hoshiarpur reported nine, followed by seven in Pathankot, five in Ludhiana and four each in Gurdaspur and Kapurthala.With this, the state’s total tally has reached 6,03,739, while the active caseload stands at 385. The state’s positivity rate for the day stood at 0.15%, stated the release.With 46 patients being discharged, the number of those recovered has reached 5,86,735. As many as 16,619 people have succumbed to the virus so far.Meanwhile, 22,784 Covid-19 tests were conducted and 12,721 people were vaccinated against the virus in Punjab on Sunday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-logs-42-fresh-covid-cases-101639321862701.html
12-12-2021||Mumbai||Unvaccinated Nagpur man tests Omicron positive||Mumbai Maharashtra on Sunday added a new Omicron case, taking the state’s tally to 18. The infected person (40) arrived in Nagpur on December 5 from South Africa. According to the state health department, “The infected person had not taken any vaccine. The person is currently under isolation at the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS), Nagpur. He had also tested positive on April 11, 2021.“ The administration tested 30 close contacts of the infected person, and everyone tested negative.Between December 1 and Sunday morning, 77,530 passengers, including 11,751 from at-risk nations arrived at the international airports at Mumbai, Pune and Nagpur. Through the surveillance at the airports, the administration has detected 30 Covid positive cases, including 22 from at-risk countries.Additionally, field surveillance of all international passengers who have arrived since November 1 is underway. Through airport and field surveillance, 107 samples have been sent for genomic sequencing and results of 26 are awaited, the health department said on Sunday.So far, Omicron cases have been reported in Pimpri-Chinchwad (10), Mumbai (5), and one each in Kalyan-Dombivli, Pune and Nagpur. Of these, nine have tested negative and have already been discharged. Meanwhile, Maharashtra added 704 fresh cases, taking the state’s tally to 6,643,883. The state added 16 Covid deaths, pushing the toll to 1,41,259. Maharashtra’s active case count stood at 6,441 on Sunday.Mumbai added 188 new Covid-19 cases, taking its tally to 765,282. A day after recording zero Covid death, Mumbai clocked two fatalities, taking the death toll in the city to 16,357. Mumbai’s active case count was 1,774 on Sunday.The state has been recording cases between 600 and 800 for the past week to 10 days. A chunk of Sunday’s cases came from the Mumbai Metropolitan Region. The cities and satellite towns in MMR (excluding Mumbai) added 134 cases. Pune district added 197 fresh cases, while Ahmednagar district added 47.
12-12-2021||Pune||Covid testing increases in Pune district on Omicron fears, but positivity rate steady||PUNE In the wake of the new variant Omicron the district, the administration has increased Covid-19 tests, both RTPCR and antigen, however, the number of cases have not gone any higher, bringing down the positivity rate. In the week between November 25 and December 1, the district saw 94,000 tests, while in the succeeding week, December 2-18, the district saw 100,000 tests and the positivity rate fell from 1.6% to 1.1%. Although the Omicron variant initially did increase concern, as of now only sporadic cases are being reported and symptoms reported are milder. In the week between, November 25 and December 1, the district saw 1,403 new Covid-19 cases, which took the positivity rate for the week to 1.6%; 18 deaths were recorded. In the following week, 1,197 new Covid-19 cases were reported which took the positivity rate to 1.1%, while a total of 16 deaths were reported. However, while the overall number of tests have been going up, the number of tests being done in Pune rural have gone down drastically. Pune city and PCMC have upped the number of tests conducted. In the last week of November, Pune rural conducted 38,000 tests in which 501 new Covid-19 cases were reported, while in the first week of December this went down to 25,000 tests in which 364 Covid-19 cases were reported. In the wake of the new variant of concern, the state government had instructed the district administration to increase testing in all the districts to bring the positivity rate to below 0.5%.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/covid-testing-increases-in-pune-district-on-omicron-fears-but-positivity-rate-steady-101639319702588.html
12-12-2021||Pune||Pune railway division launches new toll-free complaint no: 8484994600||PUNE The next time you travel by train and need to lodge a complaint about any issue that falls under the jurisdiction of the Pune railway division, call the new dedicated toll-free number, 8484994600. This number has be launched by the Pune railway division for passengers on the Pune division in a bid to give a quick response to any kind of complaints. There is already a toll-free complaint number, 139, of the Indian Railways across the country to lodge any complaint related to railways. Often passengers have to wait to lodge complaints or this number is engaged. Hence the new helpline for the Pune division, for which posters announcing the same have been displayed on all trains running in the division. “We found that many passengers had difficulties while calling or lodging complaint with the toll free number as it is for across the country. So it might take time to reach and waiting period is bit long on that number, so we decided to start our own Pune division helpline. So now passengers traveling from the Pune division can directly call to this number and their complaint will be lodged,” said VijaySinh Dadas, senior divisional mechanical engineer (Carriage and Wagons) Central Railway. Sagar Biswas, a regular passenger said, “Many times when we call to the toll-free number to lodge any complaint, there is a long wait Now if we can directly call this number within the Pune division, this will be helpful for passengers.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pune-railway-division-launches-new-toll-free-complaint-no-8484994600-101639318442617.html
12-12-2021||Pune||Pune division: Cleanliness, water, maintenance top complaints of passengers on-board Railway trains||PUNE Passengers on trains in the Pune division have registered the maximum number of complaints while “on board” as regards coach cleanliness, water and maintenance-related issues. To analyse these complaints and find a permanent solution, the Central Railway (CR), from December 2, 2021, started a dedicated IT cell. The main objective of this cell is to give immediate assistance to passengers on board, resolve issues and monitor overall passenger complaints related the Railway ecosystem. This cell is called the “Drishti” cell and is located on the Ghorpadi Locoshed premises. Complaints from the Pune railway division are monitored and analysed here. Soon, all ‘on-board’ complaints under the Central Railway, which consists of Mumbai, Pune, Solapur, Nagpur and Bhusawal, will be monitored here. “Till now there was no system of tracking, keeping records and analysis of passenger complaints which are lodged while they travel. We were only doing complaint-resolution work after it was lodged, but now through this IT cell all each and every complaint lodged by the passenger is categorised. So there are various categories of complaints, what type of complaint, then in which specific train it is lodged, whether it is solved or not, everything is monitored by us. Our main aim is to analyse these complaints and try to make necessary measures so that the number of complaints reduce,” said VijaySinh Dadas, senior divisional mechanical engineer (Carriage and Wagons), Central Railway. “For example if we get a repeated complaint from passengers traveling on the Pune to Kolkata train about 2AC coach maintenance, then we know that this coach has maintenance-related issues and needs to be solved permanently. Same with on-board cleanliness contract teams. Each train of 18 coaches has six workers and one supervisor for the journey. If we get repeated complaints about a contractor’s team, then immediately they are been terminated. This has made our work efficient, giving good results and passengers are satisfied as their complaint is resolved immediately,” added Dadas. As per the data shared by the IT cell, from January to November 2021, the maximum complaints lodged in Pune division are about coach cleaning, with 765 complaints, followed by 377 complaints about water issues and 139 complaints of coach maintenance. There are five staffers working here at the IT cell in three shifts round the clock. On an average daily five to seven complaints are lodged. Complaints are lodged through different platforms, on the railway toll-free number 139, on the Twitter handle of the railways and through the official website www.railmadad.indianrailways.gov.in||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pune-division-cleanliness-water-maintenance-top-complaints-of-passengers-on-board-railway-trains-101639316102819.html
12-12-2021||Bangalore||‘Only aims to prevent…’: Karanataka CM defends proposed anti-conversion bill||Karnataka chief minister Basavaraj Bommai on Sunday sought to assuage concerns over the bill against religious conversion proposed by his government, saying that the legislation aims to prevent only those cases in which a person is offered something in exchange of converting to another religion.“Hinduism, Christianity, Islam and Sikhism are all religions recognised by the Constitution. Worship and religious practices of people belonging to any religion will not be hindered. The bill is only to prevent religious conversions by inducements. There is no need for people to worry,” the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader assured, speaking to media a day before the scheduled commencement of the winter session of the Karnataka legislative assembly.Also Read | Report blames Karnataka ‘government attitude’ for attacks on Christian communityThe legislation is likely to be introduced sometime during the winter session, which will conclude on December 24.Bommai, meanwhile, further said that religious conversion is ‘not good for society.’ He explained, “The poor and vulnerable should not fall for it. Conversions lead to problems within families and hence this bill is being considered.”The chief minister also gave examples of other states, such as Madhya Pradesh, Uttar Pradesh and Gujarat, where such laws have already been enacted. Each of the three states, like Karnataka, has a BJP government.Also Read | Anti-conversion bill: Bengaluru Archbishop opposes proposed lawBommai then claimed that the majority of people in Karnataka, too, want such rules to be brought in. “Therefore, in this background, the law department is studying laws from other states. The draft would then be placed before the state cabinet. If the law department submits the draft, it would be taken up for discussion in the winter session of the legislature,” he remarked.In April this year, Gujarat became the third state after MP and UP to make a law against what it described as ‘forced religious conversions.’ However, in August, the Gujarat high court ordered an interim stay on the Freedom of Religion Act, 2021.(With ANI inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/only-aims-to-prevent-karanataka-cm-defends-proposed-anti-conversion-bill-101639312259118.html
12-12-2021||Chandigarh||Dance of gender equality on the beats of Bhangra||I sat there completely mesmerised by what was unfolding in front of my eyes. But for the mask that I was wearing, my jaw would have almost dropped to the ground. The Bhangra performance on stage was simply out of this world. I had never imagined that my dream of cultural hermaphroditism would become a reality in my lifetime. Yet here I was seeing it unfold in front of my eyes, with utmost joy. Not only had the performers, a mixed team of boys and girls, set the stage afire with their scintillating performance, but they had also imparted a powerful message of gender equality. The occasion was the concluding day of the two-day celebration of the 51st Foundation Day of the Church of North India (CNI) in Amritsar, and the venue, the premises of St Paul’s Church. Almost two decades ago, a presentation of this sort would have been frowned upon by people, who deemed Bhangra an exclusive male domain. I very well remember the time when I had expressed a desire to join the Bhangra team of my co-ed college as a dancer, only to be told that girls in Punjab could only perform Giddha. My love for the dance still made me stick to the all-male Bhangra team of my college as a supporter. I contributed to their success by sponsoring their refreshments and suggesting novel dance moves that helped them win a global-level Bhangra competition that year. Yet it could never satiate my wish of showing the world the mettle I was made of as a Bhangra dancer. But I am extremely happy to acknowledge that two decades down the line, things have changed for the better and girls with an aptitude for Bhangra are getting chances to display their dancing abilities as is evident from the welcome development I had the chance of witnessing. Here the girls looked confident and the boys in their team unfazed, while their parents, mentors and the audience cheered them with gusto as they danced to the accompaniment of the pulsating Bhangra beats. The all-girl Bhangra teams that had performed earlier were equally captivating. “Dance is an expression of joy, which transcends every cultural, social and gender bias. I see no reason why women and girls cannot perform Bhangra, the lively dance of our vibrant Punjab, alongside men. Our Diocese is committed to the cause of doing its bit to promote gender parity in all walks of life in the state,” announced Dr PK Samantaroy, the bishop, Diocese of Amritsar, CNI, as he invited men, women and children to join the performers in the dance. Attired in traditional finery, these predominantly rustic youngsters had showed their urban audience that one primarily needs a positive outlook and resolute will to overcome social and gender-based prejudices. shaheen.parshad@gmail.com The writer is an Amritsar-based freelance contributor||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/dance-of-gender-equality-on-the-beats-of-bhangra-101639311181356.html
12-12-2021||Lucknow||3 BSP leaders, BJP MLA from eastern UP join Samajwadi Party||UP 2022 polls’ eastern region battle is getting more interesting as three Brahmin leaders from the Bahujan Samaj Party and a BJP MLA in the region joined Samajwadi Party on Sunday.BJP MLA from Khalilabad seat in Sant Kabir Nagar, Digvijay Narain Chaubey, along with BSP leaders Vinay Shankar Tiwari (BSP MLA) Kushal Tiwari and Ganesh Shankar Pandey (former chairperson of UP Legislative Council) joined the resurgent Samajwadi Party in the presence of the SP chief Akhilesh Yadav at the SP state headquarters in Lucknow.The BSP expelled Vinay, Kushal, and Ganesh last week after it was clear in the political circles in UP that the three are headed to the SP.By executing the joining, the SP in one stroke rendered a blow to both the BJP and the BSP in eastern UP. The SP is expecting consolidation in Brahmin votes with these four inclusions.Vinay Shankar Tiwari, son of Hari Shankar Tiwari, is an MLA from Chillupar constituency, Kushal is a former MP from Sant Kabir Nagar, whereas Ganesh Shankar Pandey was the chairman of the Legislative Council at the time of the BSP government.There are talks in the political circles that Harishankar too would join the SP soon.Vinay and Kushal are the sons of influential eastern UP leaders from Gorakhpur, Harishankar Tiwari, while Ganesh is a nephew of Hari Shankar Tiwari.Hari Shankar Tiwari was the first public figure in Indian political history to be elected to the legislature from prison. Elected from Chillupar for the first time in 1985, he remained a member of the legislative assembly for 23 years uninterrupted. Tiwari is a known face of Brahmin politics in UP.He had been a cabinet minister in UP in BJP, BSP, and SP governments.Earlier in October, six suspended BSP MLAs joined Samajwadi Party in the presence of party chief Akhilesh Yadav in Lucknow. These MLAs include Hargovind Bhargav, Mujtaba Siddiqui, Hakim Lal Bind, Aslam Raini, Sushma Patel and Aslam Chaudhary.Uttar Pradesh is scheduled to go for Assembly polls in 2022.Previously, in the 2017 Assembly elections in Uttar Pradesh, the Bharatiya Janata Party bagged 312 seats out of the 403-seat Uttar Pradesh Assembly while Samajwadi Party (SP) bagged 47 seats, Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) won 19 and the Congress could manage to win only seven seats. The rest of the seats were bagged by other candidates.
12-12-2021||Patna||Italy’s Museum of Oriental Arts proposes exhibition in collaboration with Bihar Museum||The Museum of Oriental Arts, Turin (Italy) has proposed Bihar Museum for an exhibition in collaboration in the state capital. The museum, which is located in the historic 18th-century seat of Palazzo Mazzoni in Turin city of Italy, has a huge collection of Asian artworks and antiquities including the sculptures in Gandhar style, Tantrik Buddhism artworks, manuscripts, Thangka paintings and manuscripts from the Indian subcontinent. It wants to showcase some of these works in the city.To interact in this connection with the Bihar Museum officials, Davide Quadrio, the curator of the Museum of Oriental Arts, Italy, was in the city on Friday. He also gave a PowerPoint presentation on the collection of Asian artworks at the Italian museum.Anjani Kumar Singh, nodal officer and chairman of the advisory committee of the Bihar Museum, said, it would be great to co-host the exhibition with the Museum of Oriental Arts. “They want it in the near future when things would be clearer regarding Omicron, the new variant of Covid-19 and international flights in our country would resume operations,” he said.The Turin-based museum has over 2200 antiquities from countries like India, Afghanistan, Pakistan, Burma, Nepal, Tibet, Thailand, Vietnam, Cambodia and China. These are divided into five sections. “The section dedicated to India has the artworks inspired by Hinduism and Buddhism from Kashmir, India and East Pakistan. The stonework, bronzes, pottery and paintings on cotton span a period from 2nd Century BC to 19th Century,” he said. The Indian art section has on display the works of Shunga age, Kushan art, Gupta and medieval Indian art form, he added. Singh said these artworks have been displayed in theme-based sections at the Italian museum. Deepak Anand, additional director, Bihar Museum, said that the exhibition proposed by the Museum of Oriental Arts would provide the people of Patna with an opportunity to witness the artworks of Indian origin being conserved at an Italian museum. “It might not be possible for many art lovers here to visit Italy to see these at the Turin museum but the exhibition will bring those artworks to their doorstep,” he said. Officials said the PowerPoint presentation over those collections at Bihar Museum was quite engrossing and equally impressive would be the exhibition proposed by the Museum of Oriental Arts.
12-12-2021||Ranchi||ED arrests alleged human trafficker from Ranchi in money laundering case||The Enforcement Directorate (ED) informed on Sunday it has arrested an alleged human trafficker from Jharkhand, as part of a money laundering investigation against him. The man, Panna Lal Mahto alias Ganjhu, is alleged to have trafficked more than 5000 people, the central agency said.Detailing the arrest, the ED further stated that Mahto was arrested from state capital Ranchi’s Birsa Munda central jail, adding that after the arrest, a special Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA) court, on December 10, sent him to its custody for five days.“Mahto is a resident of Khunti district in Jharkhand, and was arrested by the state police in 2006 and 2015 for these alleged crimes. However, he managed to secure bail in all these cases,” the ED profiled him in a statement.“He had multiple cases registered against him in Khunti, Ranchi and Delhi under various sections of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) for offences such as kidnapping, trafficking etc. He has networks spread across Delhi, Jharkhand, Odisha and Chhattisgarh. In the national capital, Mahto had an agency under the name of Panna Lal Placement Agency,” the statement noted.The alleged human trafficker, said the Enforcement Directorate, was found to have amassed ‘huge property’ in Jharkhand, Delhi and other states from activities related to human trafficking. Some immovable properties, in the form of land in Ranchi and Khuntia, were acquired out of the proceeds of the crime, it claimed.The ED also accused Mahto of operating, along with his acquaintances, several bank accounts with a number of ‘high-value’ transactions. These transactions, it said, appear to have been acquired and transacted out of the proceeds of the crime.(With PTI inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ranchi-news/ed-arrests-alleged-drug-trafficker-from-ranchi-in-money-laundering-case-101639305530377.html
12-12-2021||Pune||Your Space: Continue to create awareness to boost Covid vaccination coverage in Pune||Pune Zilla Parishad (ZP) has so far covered 431 villages under both the doses of Covid-19 vaccination and 955 villages are remaining to be inoculated for 100 per cent vaccination. With Omicron spread fear, readers share what steps the administration should take to ensure all take the vax jabMore efforts needed to achieve 100 per cent vaccination targetPune ZP has been taking various initiatives to drive vaccination in villages. ZP chief executive officer (CEO) Ayush Prasad and his team has been very proactive in planning and executing various initiatives in this regard. Gram panchayat members are also actively participating and driving vaccination. Maybe more efforts are required to educate and encourage people by fully vaccinating local leaders like sabhapati, sarpanch, ZP members etc in different gram panchayats.Dnyanendra HulsureSpread awareness to speed up vaccination coverageDespite the Pune Zilla Parishad’s effort to cover more than 431 villages under both the doses of Covid vaccination, I think survey and awareness at the doorstep of villages will enable the collection of data and will encourage people to take the vaccine. They should get the NGOs involved in voluntary work to cover more areas and get better reach.Tejaswini SawaiArrange vax camps at residential societiesWe would like to thank the Zilla Parishad for arranging vaccination camps at housing societies. More such camps should be undertaken which will help to fill the gap, additionally, they should also conduct camps near markets, schools and other crowded areas.Anshul Gupta‘Vaccine on wheels’ can boost driveFor mass coverage, ‘vaccine on wheels’ should be introduced in residential areas. Much like a food truck that is equipped to cook and serve, a specially designed vehicle for vaccination purposes should be used. There should be an audio message that should be played in the local language to encourage all villagers. Government can launch additional benefit schemes like distributing blankets or grains or something to encourage villagers further. A target should be given to the local panchayat and should be tracked by the collector every week.Shailendra BirthareRaise awarenessI personally feel that whoever is keen to get vaccinated voluntarily has been vaccinated. However, I have observed that there is still reluctance in the rural areas due to misguided misinformation. There is an urgent need for awareness and counselling to achieve a 100 per cent vaccination target.Kiran VadgamaMake vaccination compulsoryIt is good to know that Pune Zilla Parishad has covered 431 villages under both the doses of Covid-19 vaccination, but like Puducherry the local administration can make vaccination compulsory. The vaccination data can be checked through the database and then the door-to-door campaign should be organised. Local bodies should arrange vaccination drives at school grounds and classrooms on Sundays or weekends and well-managed vaccination drives can be arranged.Sachin KhandelwalConduct door-to-door vax driveThe administration should undertake door-to-door vaccination drives. Aasha workers, school teachers should identify people who are yet to take the jabs on a war footing. Local gram panchayats should get enough jabs according to the requirements.Vaibhav Mane||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/your-space-continue-to-create-awareness-to-boost-covid-vaccination-coverage-in-pune-101639305487138.html
12-12-2021||Jaipur||Govt wants to sell everything that Congress built to its friends: Priyanka Gandhi||Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra on Sunday hit out at the Centre over growing inflation and said that the BJP-led government wants to sell everything that the Congress built over the last 70 years.Addressing the Mehangai Hatao Rally in Jaipur, the Congress General Secretary said, "When you elected them (BJP), you laid your trust in them that the country will progress. They used to say that Congress did not do anything in the past 70 years. But I want to ask them, what did you do in the last seven years? Show us one institution that you built for education, one AIIMS that you built for the healthcare system. The airport that you use to fly was also built by Congress. Today the government wants to sell everything that Congress made to its friends."Hitting out at the Centre over growing inflation, she said that the prices of eatables and fuel are sky-high but nobody listens to the common man."You are here today because an LPG cylinder costs around ₹1000, mustard oil costs around ₹200 per litre, petrol and diesel prices are sky-high, and no one is listening to the troubles being faced by the common man," she said.The Congress leader further alleged UP's Yogi Adityanath government is spending crores of rupees on advertisements but was not providing fertilizers to the farmers."Today's govt at the Centre is only about lies. This government is working for a few industrialists. The amount of money they spend on advertisements, why don't they give it to the farmers? The government in Uttar Pradesh is spending thousands of crores on advertisements. But the same government is unable to provide fertilizer to the farmers," Vadra said.Congress interim President Sonia Gandhi and Congress leader Rahul Gandhi were also present at the rally.Rajasthan Assembly polls are slated to be held in 2023.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jaipur-news/govt-wants-to-sell-everything-that-congress-built-to-its-friends-priyanka-gandhi-101639304172052.html
12-12-2021||Pune||3 killed as truck rams into vehicles on Pune-Mumbai expressway||Three people were killed while around 10-12 people sustained injuries after a truck driver lost control and rammed into three other heavy vehicles, including a passenger bus, along the Pune-Mumbai Expressway, officials said on Sunday morning.The deceased were identified as Jagdish Kumar (50), Nitesh Dashrath Kamble (28) and Mohammad Bablu Sultan (26) while the injured truck driver, who first lost control of his vehicle, has sustained severe injuries and is under treatment. His identity could not be ascertained immediately.The injured man was driving a truck registered in Madhya Pradesh and was heading towards Mumbai when he rammed into a moving bus, sending it off-course and into a stationary mixer truck which was deployed for the ongoing concretization work on the expressway, late on Saturday night.“Jagdish Kumar was the driver on the mixer truck while Kamble and Sultan were labourers working on the site. The MP truck then went ahead and rammed into another truck (registered in Maharashtra). 8-10 passengers on the bus sustained minor injuries,” said Amol Dhaygude, a constable at Khopoli police station.The driver and cleaner on the truck registered in Maharashtra have suffered severe injuries and have been rushed to nearby hospitals. All the injured have been rushed to different hospitals in Pune, Panvel, and Khopoli.Officials said a case in the matter is being registered at Khopoli police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/3-killed-as-truck-rams-into-vehicles-on-pune-mumbai-expressway-101639304340974.html
12-12-2021||Delhi||From veggies to compost, a cloth bag for all: Delhi-NCR NGOs chip in to reduce plastic footprint||Several attempts have been made to reduce the plastic pollution in the city. Yet, often shoppers end up demanding bags from the shopkeeper as they miss bringing one from their home. But, recently, when shoppers turned up at Green Park market, they were pleasantly surprised to see the option to rent cloth bags, to carry whatever they buy at the market. This experiment called Project Vikalp, is an initiative by an NGO, Why Waste Wednesdays, and allows people to rent a bag for a small fee. The best part is there’s no deadline to return, and whenever they wish to return, shoppers can give it back at the NGO’s counter at a different market as well. “We will soon start this facility in more markets in the city. People can deposit ₹20 and take the cloth bag to carry whatever they shop. And when they come back, whenever they wish to return the bag, a full refund is given to them,” says Ruby Makhija, founder of the NGO, adding, “We plan to generate a QR code soon, which will contain all the information about Vikalp alongside educating people about the ill-effects of single use plastic on the environment, solutions to curb it as well as the address of existing Vikalp stalls with GPS locations for their ease. To inform the shoppers visiting the market, we have put up a banner on our store and stickers on all the shops in the market, mentioning the address of the store.”This campaign got a structure, early this year, when the NGO started work along with South Delhi Municipal Corporation (SDMC), and its volunteers got cloth bags made out of upcycled cloth. Makhija adds: “We were successful to a great extent, but the problem was translating this awareness into practice. As a consumer, I could have three cloth bags at home and wouldn’t want to purchase another one. So we wanted to come up with a solution where it doesn’t pinch people’s pockets and they are also able to use the bag and return whenever they wish so. This is when we thought of the name and concept of Vikalp (which translates to ‘option’).”Also pitching in to save the city from the ill-effects of plastic is Delhi Greens. “We have come up with 100 ways of how Delhi citizens can minimise the use of plastic,” says Konsam Nirmala from the city-based non profit organisation, adding, “What tops in this list is the need to simply stop using plastic bags, and the solution to it is to reuse cloth bags. If you can’t find a cloth bag near you, write to us on our website and we will find one and send it to you! Toothbrush is another major example of plastic pollution, and we are arranging bamboo brushes that can be used as an alternative. We are also encouraging people to use pen refills instead of changing the entire pen since that too adds to plastic usage. Through WhatsApp groups and social media, we are reaching out to the masses and encouraging them to adopt at least five of the simple ways enlisted among the 100, and help bring a change in the environment.” Also creating awareness about the need to reduce plastic usage is Dwarka-based NGO, Rise Foundation. “We are asking people to carry cloth bags with them when they go out. And we are in talks with groups that make these bags, which can be distributed through drives,” says Madhukar Varshney, from the foundation. And a Gurugram-based citizens’ collective, Why Waste Your Waste, has started a similar movement to reduce plastic footprint and aims to soon move beyond it. “The compost produced from the kitchen waste at our compost plant is being sold to residents. This was earlier done in plastic bags but now we have replaced them with cloth ones,” informs Kavita Bansal, a core member of the group, adding, “The beautiful handmade bags were procured from an NGO that supports the underprivileged. When the residents return the cloth bags, after using the compost, they also get their refund. Soon we shall be pushing this initiative further as we have received requests from a lot of other communities, who want to take to the same thing. There are also people in our group who are distributing cloth bags, but the crises is so acute that such methods need to be re thought. There are some residents who are setting examples at individual, and even community level, by upcycling their old clothes into bags that are then used to carry vegetables, etc.”Besides this, Rise Foundation has also found a way to reuse plastic which we find at home. “We ask people to get PET bottles and fill it with MLP waste like chips, chocolate wrappers which they accumulate in their houses. They send it to our foundation then and we make eco bricks with the same. We, then, use these bricks to make benches etc in the park. We have made two of these in the green belt in Dwarka,” says Varshney.Author tweets @anjuriFollow more stories on Facebook and Twitter||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/from-veggies-to-compost-a-cloth-bag-for-all-delhi-ncr-ngos-chip-in-to-reduce-plastic-footprint-101639302240160.html
12-12-2021||Bangalore||Karnataka adds one more case of Omicron to its tally; total 3 now||Karnataka on Sunday detected its third case of Omicron after a 34-year-old patient who returned from South Africa tested positive for the new strain of coronavirus, taking the tally of the newly-discovered variant in the state to three.“He is isolated and being treated in a government hospital. 5 primary and 15 secondary contacts have been traced and samples sent for testing,” Karnataka health minister Dr Sudhakar K informed through his Twitter handle on Sunday.The new case takes the overall tally of the Covid-19 variant in India to 36.Earlier in the day, Chandigarh and Andhra Pradesh reported one case each of the new coronavirus variant, Omicron.The Omicron case in Chandigarh came to light after swab samples of a fully vaccinated 20-year-old passenger, with a travel history to Italy, revealed the presence of the new strain.Andhra Pradesh reported its first case after a 34-year-old traveller who landed in Mumbai from Ireland was found positive for Covid-19's new variant.Earlier, Karnataka confirmed two cases of Omicron in the state.Karnataka's first case of the new variant was detected after a South African who landed in Bengaluru on November 20 tested positive but left the country three days later based on a negative Covid-19 test report. He was also India’s first-known Omicron patient.The new variant was first detected in South Africa. It was named 'Omicron' by the World Health Organisation on November 26.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/karnataka-adds-one-more-case-of-omicron-to-its-tally-total-3-now-101639298497390.html
12-12-2021||Patna||4 Bihar districts among top 5 most improved in education sector: Niti Aayog||A recent Niti Aayog report may have rated Bihar as the poorest state in the country, but, in some good news, four districts from the state have been ranked among the top 5 most improved ‘Aspirational Districts’ in the field of education by the Union government’s public policy think tank.Also Read | Bihar poorest state, followed by Jharkhand and UP: Niti Aayog report“Education is the key to champion the cause of an #AatmanirbharBharat! Presenting, the top 5 most improved #AspirationalDistricts in the sector of #Education for the month of October 2021. Congratulations, #ChampionsOfChange!” Niti Aayog tweeted on December 10.
12-12-2021||Patna||‘Crime in Bihar below many states’: Police headquarters||Bihar police headquarters has tried to dispel the perception of crime spurt in Bihar with statistics of the national crime record bureau (NCRB), which puts Bihar at the 25th spot in the country. “Statistics speak for themselves. Law and order remain the topmost priority of the state government and that gets reflected through the statistics of the Centre, not the state government. For police, every crime matters and we are trying our level best to ensure rule of law in the state. In case any no debt, there is prompt and decisive action,” said ADG (headquarters) Jitendra Singh Gangwar.Against the average national rate of total cognizable crime per lakh, which is 487.8, it is 211.3 in Bihar, with much bigger states ahead of Bihar. The crime rate in Bihar in 2019 was recorded at 164.8 which witnessed a 5.1% decline in 2020 at 159.7. Even in the case of murders, the rate in Bihar was 2.6, slightly higher than the national average of 2.2, but it was still ranked 8th. In dacoity, the state ranks 11th with the rate same as the national average (0.2), while in robbery the national average is 1.8 and the state rate 1.6, placing it at 13th place in the country.According to the data provided by police headquarters on Saturday, in the first 11 months (January to November) of 2019, Bihar witnessed 353 dacoity cases while till November 2021 only 239 cases were registered this year. Similarly, in robbery cases, the state recorded 2399 cases in 2019 while 1694 cases were registered till November 2020. In murder cases, the state witnessed 2910 cases between January and November in 2019 but this year till November, only 2607 FIRs have been registered. Gangwar said that though every incident of crime was a matter of concern for the state, it would be wrong to project it as lawlessness. The murder ratio went down in the state since 2019 as 2.6, 2.6 and 2.3 respectively. In kidnapping for ransom, Bihar’s rate is 12th in the country. In the eleventh month of 2019, Bihar registered 42 cases while in 2021, only 34 cases were registered.Gangwar said that Bihar had a very high population density and as such any comparison with other states would not be appropriate. ”What is important is that police are active to nail the culprits,” he added.Law and order have always been a big issue in Bihar and it was one of the reasons that led to the installation of the Nitish government in 2020 and ‘rule of law’ became the buzzword to give Nitish-led NDA a clean sweep in 2010.Gangwar said that in the most sensitive crime against women, Bihar was ranked 29th in the state, while in heinous rape incidents, Bihar is at the bottom at the 31st place. In cases related to the SC/ST atrocities act, Bihar ranked third across the country with 44.5 ratio while the national ratio is said to be 25.0.“In many cases of kidnapping, police have detected instances of elopement or teenage issues or domestic violence. It is not always for a criminal purpose. Many instances of forcible marriage have also come to light,” he added.In the case of road robbery, as compared to 2005, the state witnessed a 38.8% decline in 2020. Till November 2020, at least 137 cases were registered while in 2005 Bihar police registered 224 cases. In cases of bank dacoity, police registered 12 cases in 2020 while in 2015, a total of 26 cases were lodged.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/crime-in-bihar-way-below-many-states-police-headquarters-101639299900408.html
12-12-2021||Patna||ASI, 2 others killed in separate incidents in rural Patna||Two people, including an assistant sub-inspector (ASI) policeman and newly elected mukhia, were killed on Saturday while another was injured when unidentified criminals allegedly opened fire at them at Dhelwa Gosain locality falling under Barh police station of rural Patna, officials said. The incident occurred at around 11.45 pm when they were coming out from a wedding pandal after attending a function. The deceased was identified as ASI Rajesh Kumar Yadav, a native of Nawada district and currently posted at Pandarak police station of Barh sub-division, while the newly elected mukhia was identified as Priya Ranjan alias Gorelal Yadav, a resident of Gopkita village under Pandarak police station. Station house officer of Barh police station Sanjit Kumar Singh confirming the incident told HT that Gorelal won mukhia election from East Pandarak panchayat on November 26. He defeated a woman mukhia to a margin of 23 votes. She is the wife of a notorious Uday Pahelwan and her son Paplu is also a history-sheeter. According to the senior SP Upendra Kumar Sharma, Gorelal with his supporters reached the venue in his Scorpio from Gopkita village. The ASI is said to be accompanied by mukhia. “As soon as they came out from the Happy Marriage Hall to board their vehicle, two bike-borne assailants opened fire on them. Gorelal received two bullet injuries on his chest while the ASI also received bullet injuries on his left leg and back,” the SSP said, adding that both succumbed to their injuries on their way to Patna Medical College and Hospital. Sharma told that the slain mukhia was also facing criminal cases including the murder of LJP leader Brijnathi Singh. Preliminary investigation suggested that the reason behind the incident is said to be political rivalry. “Efforts to nab assailants who attacked them are on. Police also scanned CCTV footage near the spot to identify the criminals,” the SSP added. The third injured is identified as Lal Bahadur Ram who is undergoing treatment in the hospital. Eyewitnesses of the incident told that the assailants fired more than 15 rounds while fleeing from the spot taking advantage of the darkness. In another incident, armed criminals gunned down a newly elected ward member Sanjay Verma at Lodipur village under Naubatpur police station of rural Patna, officials said. Police said that Verma was elected from ward number 9 of Jamalpura panchayat. The incident took place when he returned home after attending a marriage function. Police said armed criminals shot him on his head from point-blank range and he died on the spot. City SP (West) Ashok Kumar Mishra said the reason behind the crime is yet to be ascertained. Police are investigating the matter. 
12-12-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai mayor Pednekar provided security after receiving death threat letter||Mumbai Mayor Kishori Pednekar has been provided with security after she received a death threat letter from an anonymous sender on Friday, Maharashtra home minister Dilip Walse Patil said on Sunday."After the Mumbai Mayor received the threat letter, we have provided her security. The search operation of the sender is on. Whosoever is found to be the culprit, would be punished harshly," Patil said while speaking to reporters, according to news agency ANI.Also Read| Man threatens to kill Mumbai mayor, detained in GujaratSoon after receiving the letter, which also threatened to kill her family members, Kishori Pednekar, who is a leader of the ruling Shiv Sena, filed a complaint with Byculla Police station on Friday.The Mumbai mayor said the letter was full of vulgar language.A first information report (FIR) has been registered against an unidentified person under sections 506 (2) and 509 of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) at Byculla police station and teams have been sent to Uran, Kharghar and Panvel in Navi Mumbai and Raigad as part of the probe, an official told PTI.Kishori Pednekar received death threats on December 21, 2020. A man from Gujarat called Pednekar on her phone, which was attended by her assistant, and allegedly threatened to kill the Mumbai mayor. Pednekar filed a complaint with the police and the caller was detained in January this year.Meanwhile, Pednekar also filed a complaint against Maharashtra Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader Ashish Shelar, alleging he made objectionable remarks against her while criticising the Shiv Sena-ruled Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation's (BMC's) handling of a recent cylinder blast in Worli.Ashish Shelar was arrested in connection with the alleged remarks and was later released on bail. The BJP leader claimed his remarks against the Mumbai mayor were distorted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-mayor-pednekar-provided-security-after-receiving-death-threat-letter-101639285322301.html
12-12-2021||Mumbai||Reconsider excise duty reduction on imported products: Domestic liquor makers to Maharashtra||Domestic liquor makers have requested the Maharashtra government to reconsider its decision to reduce excise duty on imported products.The Confederation of Indian Alcoholic Beverage Companies (CIABC) in a letter to the Maharashtra government has said reduction on excise duty on imported products has created an "unequal and unfair playing field" against Indian-made foreign liquor.The state government should encourage products made in India, which historically has been the main contributor to its revenues and economic prosperity, said a letter addressed to Maharashtra Deputy Chief Minister and Finance Minister Ajit Pawar."Excise duty reduction of such scale on imported products is disastrous for the Indian industry. It so distorts the level-playing field against the Indian industry, that consequences may be far-reaching leading to disinvestment, job losses and farmer discomfort," it said.In November, the Maharashtra government had announced to reduce the excise duty on imported liquors by half, which is from 300 per cent to 150 per cent on imported liquor. The move was done to bring its price at par with that in other states.According to CIABC, this reduction will make premium Indian malt whiskies such as Amrut and Paul John and other niche products unsaleable in Mumbai.The prices of these Indian made super-premium products used to be 80-90 per cent of comparable imported products earlier thus allowing them some competitive space."After this change, the prices of Indian made products will become 30-40 per cent higher than similar imported products," said the letter, written by CIABC Director-General Vinod Giri, adding it is evident that with that kind of price difference, Indian super-premium products will find it difficult to sell.Moreover, it also added the decision would also discourage investment in Maharashtra and lead to job losses."As the price difference with fully Indian made product narrows down significantly, most Indian products are likely to lose competitive ground to imported products. The result may be a widespread loss for the Indian industry.Moreover, the premise that such a duty reduction will prevent the smuggling of imported liquors from other states is "misplaced" as the prices of Maharashtra is actually lower than in Karnataka, the most prominent neighbouring state."With this excise duty reduction, the fear is that stock will be smuggled out of Maharashtra to other states, which may force those states also to reduce duty, thus creating a domino effect which will be disastrous for the Indian industry," CIABC said.The Indian alcoholic beverage industry contributes nearly ₹2.40 lakh crore in taxes to the exchequers of the state governments and an overwhelming 99 per cent of this is contributed by-products produced in India."Considering that we believe that the governments should take proactive measures to support domestic production instead of offering preferential treatment to imported products which do no such service to the society," it said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/reconsider-excise-duty-reduction-on-imported-products-domestic-liquor-makers-to-maharashtra-101639287302202.html
12-12-2021||Delhi||Delhi air quality improves marginally, moves to poor category||The air quality in the national capital marginally improved and moved to the 'poor' category on Sunday morning.The System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting And Research (SAFAR) portal of the Ministry of Earth Sciences reported an air quality index (AQI) of 256. The area near IIT Delhi logged an AQI of 266, the T3 terminal of the airport reported an AQI of 290, Lodhi Road area reported an AQI of 249.As per the government agencies, an AQI between zero and 50 is considered 'good', 51 and 100 'satisfactory', 101 and 200 'moderate', 201 and 300 'poor', 301 and 400 'very poor', and 401 and 500 'severe'.SAFAR, in its daily bulletin said, "For three days (12th, 13th, 14th), winds are likely to be low to moderate. Partially cloudy conditions and moderate mixing layer height causing moderate vertical mixing are likely to keep air quality within 'poor' during noon time or 'lower end of very poor' during the night and early morning hours for the next three days. From December 15 onwards, air quality is likely to improve due to relatively high wind speeds but within 'poor' or 'lower end of very poor' category."On Saturday, the AQI stood in the 'very poor category' by reporting an AQI of 310.The ministry's portal advised people belonging to sensitive groups to reduce prolonged or heavy exertion, take more breaks and do less intense activities. "Asthematics, keep medicine ready if symptoms of coughing or shortness of breath occur. Heart patients, see doctor, if palpitations, shortness of breath, or unusual fatigue occurs," it read.With the order of the Commission for Air Quality Management (CAQM) concerning the closure of industries not running on clean fuels coming to an end on Sunday unless extended further, residents are apprehensive about the air quality getting worse if strict measures to curb pollution do not continue.CAQM had on December 7 ordered the immediate closure of all industries not running on cleaner fuel in industrial areas despite its availability. CAQM had said that violating industries or industrial units will not be permitted to schedule their operations till December 12 and the position will be reviewed for further decision.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-air-quality-improves-marginally-moves-to-poor-category-101639283050444.html
12-12-2021||Jaipur||Voting for Phase 1 of zila parishad, panchayat samiti polls in Rajasthan begins||Voting for Phase 1 of the zila parishad and panchayat samiti elections in four districts of Rajasthan—Baran, Kota, Ganganagar and Karauli—is being held on Sunday. The voting started at 7.30am and will go on till 5.30pm, state election commissioner PS Mehra said on Saturday.Mehra said 1,434 polling stations have been set up for Sunday's voting, according to news agency PTI. He also said officials have been instructed to ensure free, fair and peaceful elections in the state.The second and third phases of the zila parishad and panchayat samiti elections in Rajasthan will take place on December 15 and December 18 respectively. The counting of votes for all three phases will be done on December 21.As many as 2,251 candidates are in the fray for the zila parishad and panchayat samiti elections. Mehra said on December 4 that of these candidates, 1,946 will contest for the panchayat samiti and the remaining 305 will contest for the zila parishad.Three out of 106 zila parishad members and six out of 568 panchayat samiti members have been elected unopposed, the state election commissioner said.Hence, the three-phase election is being held to elect 103 members of zila parishad and 562 members of panchayat samiti, PTI further reported.Elections will also take place for zila pramukh and panchayat samiti pradhan on December 23. And on December 24, elections will take place for up-zila pramukh and up-pradhan.(With PTI inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jaipur-news/voting-for-phase-1-of-zila-parishad-panchayat-samiti-polls-in-rajasthan-begins-101639272388322.html
12-12-2021||Mumbai||Sharad Pawar turns 81 today, NCP to celebrate with low-key event||The Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) will on Sunday celebrate party chief Sharad Pawar's 81st birthday through a low-key event, which will be streamed on the party's social media platforms, given the ongoing coronavirus pandemic and rising cases of Omicron in Maharashtra.The NCP will organise the event at the Nehru Centre in Mumbai's Worli to mark Sharad Pawar's birthday from 11am to 1.30pm.On Pawar's birthday, the NCP will also launch a mobile application to strengthen coordination between the party organisation and its workers.Addressing a press conference on Friday, NCP leader and Maharashtra water resources minister Jayant Patil said party workers and other common people should not turn up to greet Sharad Pawar at the Nehru Centre because of the rising cases of the Omicron variant of the coronavirus.“Given the Covid-19 situation, (Pawar) saheb will accept people's greetings through a virtual rally this year. The rally will be streamed on the party's official Facebook page and YouTube channel. An app will also be launched that day to strengthen the coordination between the party organisation and its workers," Patil told reporters on Friday.Also Read| At 81, Sharad Pawar takes on the task of uniting opposition against BJPThe Maharashtra minister added the NCP will organise a 'Swabhiman Saptah' from December 14-20 where a health check-up camp, blood donation camp, distribution of medicines, tree plantation will be carried out at the party district level.Sharad Pawar has been in active politics for more than five decades and has served in key positions. In Maharashtra, Pawar served as its chief minister on three occasions while at the Central level, he served as the defence minister and the agriculture minister.After separating from the Congress party, Pawar founded the NCP in 1999 and leads the party's delegation in the Rajya Sabha.At the age of 81, Sharad Pawar is preparing to unite opposition parties in India to take on the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) in the upcoming Lok Sabha elections in 2024. On December 7, the NCP, in its national executive meeting, called for the creation of an anti-BJP opposition front in the country based on the principle of “collective leadership.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/sharad-pawar-turns-81-today-ncp-to-celebrate-with-low-key-event-101639267066962.html
12-12-2021||Delhi||DJB suspends 10 employees for faulty water meter readings||The Delhi Jal Board on Saturday suspended 10 water meter readers and terminated the services of 20 outsourced employees after being informed of incorrect readings, according to an order issued by the state’s water utility. A government spokesperson also said that the outsourcing agency has been issued a show-cause notice, asking why it shouldn’t be blacklisted and adding that a police case will be filed in the matter.The action came days after state water minister and DJB chairperson Satyendar Jain revised the utility’s water billing system, capping new bills at 1.5 times the amount of the previous month’s bill.“The director (revenue) is hereby directed to terminate the services of all such meter readers involved in such illegal activities. Further, a show-cause notice has been issued to the concerned outsourcing agency asking why action has not been taken against such fraudulent cases and why the government should not blacklist the company responsible for it... the revenue director has been directed to get an FIR lodged against such officials/meter readers for cheating and forgery under relevant sections...”According to a government statement, Jain said DJB is committed to working towards transparency. A government official said that the agency has received several complaints of incorrect readings and inflated water bills over the past few months, and that it is carrying out an audit to identify errant officials.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/djb-suspends-10-employees-for-faulty-water-meter-readings-101639267760942.html
12-12-2021||Lucknow||UP govt to begin 'biggest campaign' of free ration distribution from today||The Uttar Pradesh Government is set to begin its "Maha Abhiyan" of free ration distribution, other than the PM Garib Kalyan Anna Yojana (PM-GKAY), from Sunday.As per a statement issued by the state government, under the campaign, more than 15 crore ration cardholders will be given double ration, free of cost.Terming it as the "biggest ration distribution campaign ever in the country", the state government said, "Antyodaya and eligible domestic ration cardholders will get the direct benefit of the government scheme.""Under the scheme, the double ration is to be distributed to Antyodaya ration cardholders and eligible families. There are about 1,30,07,969 units under Antyodaya Anna Yojana and 13,41,77,983 units of eligible domestic cardholders in the state," read the release.MPs and MLAs have been instructed to monitor the campaign, which is a big support to the poor, labourers and farmers in the state.Notably, on the occasion of 'Deepotsava' celebrations in Ayodhya, Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath announced that PM Garib Kalyan Anna Yojana (PM-GKAY) will be extended till Holi."Since then 10 kg ration is being given free every month to the eligible cardholders of UP," the state government said."The UP government is also giving free wheat and rice twice a month to the ration cardholders. Pulses, edible oil and salt are also being given free of cost from ration shops," it added.Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Anna Yojana (PMGKAY) is a food security welfare scheme that was envisaged by the Prime Minister to provide assistance and help mitigate the economic impact of Covid-19.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/up-govt-to-begin-biggest-campaign-of-free-ration-distribution-from-today-101639268451645.html
12-12-2021||Delhi||4 students hurt after brawl at exam centre in Mayur Vihar Phase 2||Four Class 10 students were allegedly attacked at a school in Mayur Vihar Phase 2 with a knife by students of another institution on Saturday while they were returning home after their CBSE Class 10 board examinations, the police said after apprehending two of the alleged attackers.According to the police, three of the students sustained minor injuries and were discharged after treatment. The fourth is currently being treated at the AIIMS Trauma Centre.The four — students at a school in Trilokpuri — appeared for an exam at the Mayur Vihar Phase 2 school, which was the examination centre, when they got into a brawl with Class 10 students from a school in Shakarpur, who were also taking the test at the same centre.Police said the cause of the brawl was not immediately clear. “The Pandav Nagar police station received three PCR calls reporting a quarrel among the students at a school. We found that four victims were under treatment for sharp injuries,” police officers said on Saturday.The police have registered a case under sections 324/323/34 of the Indian Penal Code (IPC). By Saturday evening, the police had apprehended two of the attackers.A senior official from the school where the injured students are enrolled said their parents were informed about the incident.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/4-students-hurt-after-brawl-at-exam-centre-in-mayur-vihar-phase-2-101639267160508.html
12-12-2021||Delhi||79-year-old killed in Old Rajendra Nagar||79-year-old woman was murdered with a brick at her home in central Delhi’s Old Rajendra Nagar on Saturday, the police said. Investigators said the suspect did not have to force an entry into the house, suggesting that the person was acquainted with the woman, the police said, adding that they were probing the case from robbery, property dispute as well as enmity angles.The deceased was identified as Kusum Singhal. She is survived by two daughters, one of whom lives in south Delhi, while the other lives in Switzerland.Her husband died a few years ago, and she lived alone, said deputy commissioner of police (central) Shweta Singh Chauhan.DCP Chauhan said that on Saturday afternoon, one of Singhal’s daughters was not able to get in touch with her over the phone, and contacted Singhal’s neighbour.The police did not immediately reveal which daughter made the call.Around 2.10pm, the neighbour went to Singhal’s house and saw that the main door was ajar. She found Singhal’s body, which had injury marks on the back of the head, hinting that she was attacked with a brick, said a police officer.The neighbour informed Singhal’s daughter as well as the police. The body was later shifted to a government hospital mortuary for an autopsy.Singhal’s daughter and other relatives said the elderly woman did not have any permanent income source, and depended on her children.The police are trying to ascertain if any valuables are missing from the house.A case of murder was registered and the investigators are gathering information about a female domestic help who worked at the house every day.“We will question the help to find out when she last visited the house. A list of people who had access to the house is being prepared. We will question all of them. The CCTV cameras installed in the neighbourood are also being scanned for clues,” the officer added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/79yearold-killed-in-old-rajendra-nagar-101639262748003.html
12-12-2021||Chandigarh||Wildbuzz | In irises, do roses dwell||‘Goolab chasm’ or rose eyes or the light-eye ones was the vernacular name conferred upon hawks as opposed to ‘Siah chasm’ or the black-eyed ones bestowed upon falcons by the nobility of the sub-continent. The irises of the female northern goshawk, which alone was known as the ‘baaz’ or ‘shahbaaz’, changed from lemon yellow to an orange-red with age while the male goshawk or the ‘zurrah’ would sport blazing ruby eyes upon maturity. The sheer beauty of the shahbaaz’s eyes was deceptive for it was a raptor enjoying a reputation for uncommon strength, tenacity, suicidal courage and viciousness in pursuit of prey. The changing roses in her aging irises were as if these had been sourced directly from the writhing prey’s frothing blood.There are documented cases of large eagles such as the Bonelli’s bringing down fawns or even a large monitor lizard. In the bygone era, three to five Saker falcons would be set in a flying pack upon an Indian gazelle (chinkara) with the winged hunters not too infrequently impaled on the chinkara’s dagger-like horns. But it was upon the shahbaaz upon whom was lent the distinction of flooring an adult Chinkara all by herself; a mighty prowess that rendered her the esteemed bird of Mughal emperors, Sikh Gurus and Rajput rajahs.In his volume published in 1852, ‘Falconry In The Valley Of Indus’, the Victorian explorer, Sir Richard Burton, described the royal shahbaaz as one that could cost as “much as a (sum) fully equal to 200 pounds in England.” On a hunt with the Ameer of Sindh, Burton penned a vivid narrative of the shahbaaz killing a racing gazelle after braving the danger from dagger horns that repeatedly pierced her tail and thigh feathers.“She swooped upon its back, deeply scoring the delicate yellow coat as she passed by. Then she descended upon the gazelle’s head, deafening it with her clashing pinions, and blinding it with her raking talons. As the victim, losing strength and breath by excess of fear, could no longer use its weapons (horns) with the same dexterity, the boldness of the Shahbaaz increased. Then the Ameer’s dogs, who had become ferocious as wolves, gained sensibly upon their victim. But even before the dogs had fastened their fangs upon the gazelle’s quarters, the unhappy gazelle was stretched, panting and struggling with the Shahbaaz straining every nerve to pin its head to the ground,” wrote Burton.Blood eyes, lemon legsHawk-eyed visitors and walkers to the last pond at the Sukhna lake, where the regulator gates are situated, would have noticed blackish-white birds hunched at intervals in the bushes flanking the water. These birds seem virtually frozen in posture, like the nearby Buddha statue in the typically unquiet, Garden of Silence. Known as Black-crowned Night herons, these wetland birds are a resident species and some nest just a few hundred yards away on the tall trees that straddle the boundary of the UT Fish Seed Farm.Adult herons are distinctly coloured with unblinking, dark orange to blood-red irises, dull green legs/feet that morph to lemon, orange-red or pinkish red in the breeding season, a greenish-black back and a handsome black crest sporting a few white plumes. The crest stands momentarily erect when herons express emotions at their nesting or roosting places, such as territorial spats. Immature herons are brown, streaked and speckled with rufous, buff and dark brown. Herons are prone to feeding at night, setting upon flights to and from their feeding grounds with vocalisations of a raucous ‘kwaak’ call. This characteristic call confers upon herons the common vernacular name, Kwaak.The diet of herons comprises fish, frogs, aquatic insects, dragonfly larvae etc.vjswild1@gmail.com||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/wildbuzz-in-irises-do-roses-dwell-101639262026250.html
12-12-2021||Chandigarh||Guest Column | How I chanced upon my green thumb||The bountiful blossoms on our bottle gourd vine were, for us “fair pledges of the fruitful tree,” but to our great dismay this observation of Robert Herrick did not ring true for us as the plant bore no fruits. On consulting a specialist, it emerged that the flowers had failed to fulfil their purpose as they were all of the same sex: female. “Sir, as there are no male flowers, pollination has not taken place,” the expert said, drily. Despite knowing of all about pollination, it had not occurred to us that the heterogeneity of flowers could be responsible for the lack of fruit.The expert suggested sprinkling honey-mixed water on the flowers to attract bees and butterflies to facilitate pollination. We were amazed by the intricate ways of nature, and I silently thanked my better-half’s insistence for giving me front-row seats to the spectacle, and help me grow a new perspective. When and how it all happened, makes the story of the day.First, let me admit that I had never been in favour of growing greens at home. I had only seen vegetables being grown in the fields, and firmly believed it to be a tedious and taxing task to be undertaken by farmers alone. To me, the very idea of tilling and toiling, straining and stressing for brinjals, beans and beetroots was revolting.My wife, however, would always insist upon sparing space and sources to sow salad leaves and some seasonal vegetables. I was convinced that the reward cannot be worth the means. Her assertion that kitchen gardening is a reward in itself, and her argument that it is a purely aesthetic activity, failed to convince me. The long lockdowns, however, mellowed my disapproval as the need of the hour was to secure untouched vegetables. I, then, let my wife’s will prevail and within days the daisies and dahlias, pansies and petunias, which added to the aesthetic of our home were outnumbered by capsicums and cauliflowers, broccoli and beetroot, celery and lettuce.I came to love watching the rolled-up leaves unfurl, flowers forming, and then shaping themselves into a vegetable. My favourite, however, is discovering the cute cucumber concealing behind the leaves or a tiny turnip trying to pop up from the soil. Truly, one can only witness how life comes into being in a garden. To sow a seed, to tend it, to watch it grow, and then harvest it means an active participation in the mysteries of nature.Growing a gourmet of greens is far better than merely getting vegetables. In the garden, things follow their natural course –there are no shortcuts, or pulls or pressures at work. It is, indeed, a lesson in patience and perseverance, trust and positivity. It is like having faith in the future and believing in tomorrow. Let gardening be our teacher as Wordsworth says, “One impulse from a vernal wood may teach more than all the sages can.amritanand810@gmail.com(The writer is a Jagadhri-based retired associate professor)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/guest-column-how-i-chanced-upon-my-green-thumb-101639261843919.html
12-12-2021||Chandigarh||Guest Column| Bonds of love may trump those of blood||It was the start of the 2003-2004 academic year when Charu joined as an undergraduate in the arts programme at the Post Graduate Government College For Girls where I was serving as the political science associate professor since 1995. Within no time her caring nature and deeply entrenched family values brought her closer to me and she became an inseparable part of my family. She treated my only son as a younger brother, and my husband was like her father. One day, she said, “Ma’am, if you do not mind, may I address you as ‘mama’ and uncle as ‘papa’. Without a second thought, I hugged her saying, “By God’s grace we have been blessed with a grown-up daughter.” Sometimes strangers bond so intensely that the relationships last a long time, and petty considerations of caste, colour and religion cease to matter. Our relationship with my new daughter was the same, she was closer to us than a blood relation. We had always longed for a loving daughter, and she filled that void in our family. After graduating college, she joined Panjab University to pursue a master’s degree in French and later went to Paris on a year-long teaching assignment on a scholarship. On getting back to India, she served for several multi-national companies in New Delhi, Noida and Gurgaon as a French translator and interpreter on lucrative pay packages. Highly attached to our family, she always made it a point to visit us at our place for an hour or so on weekends. She came from a middle-class family, and her parents were always worried about her marriage. However, despite having a good job, finding a suitable match for her was proving to be a Herculean task. My husband and I would always tell her parents to not lose hope as marriages are predestined and God-willing one day we would find a perfect match for our daughter. Her mother’s sleepless nights and her father’s anxiety increased after proposal were rejected on frivolous grounds, which were beyond our comprehension. “Can your daughter be posted near Balachaur where our son is posted as a school teacher?” or “Can she move to Bhucho mandi, where the boy is working as a panchayat secretary” were the questions posed to us, knowing full well, that it would be next to impossible to get a job fitting her profile in these areas. Other suitors wanted to know her package, and whether her family lived in a rented accommodation or her own house. Finally, our ordeal of looking for a decent match for Charu came to an end in 2018 with a matrimonial proposal from Ludhiana. My husband and I, who had been frantically looking for a good match for her, were delighted and wished in hearts of hearts that this matrimonial alliance be fructified as the boy belonged to a respectable middle-class Punjabi family. Eventually, a meeting was arranged with the boy and his family at Ludhiana. Both boy and girl flew in from their respective working cities -- Bengaluru and New Delhi. The next day, the boy and his family reached the girl’s house at Zirakpur for an engagement ceremony. Suddenly, the boy’s father said they wanted an early and simple marriage and could it be held that very day? Hearing this, Charu’s father and mother were taken aback. Everyone started whispering and none dared to take a final call at the spur of moment. On the other side, the girl was not aware what was happening. Breaking the stoic silence, the suitor straightway asked Charu, “Should we hold the marriage ceremony today?” She immediately saidm “Let me talk to my family first.” We were absolutely perplexed. If we said ‘yes’, who was to say whether the quick marriage will turn out to be a good decision, and if we said ‘no’ would we able to find as good a match again. Happily married now, she has a one-and-half year-old son. The episode has reaffirmed my faith in Tom Mullen’s quote, “Happy marriages begin when we marry the ones we love and they blossom when we love the ones we marry”. jatinderwalia.lamba@gmail.com (The writer is the principal of Government College, Mohali)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/guest-column-bonds-of-love-may-trump-those-of-blood-101639261663888.html
12-12-2021||Chandigarh||Guest Column | Greatness comes to those who think big||As legend goes, a well-known palm reader once told a young boy that he had missed greatness by a fraction, as if the two lines on his had palm met, he would grow up to be an emperor. Immediately, the young boy pulled out a knife and cut his palm to join the two lines. Seeing his determination, the palm reader said it did not matter what the lines of his palms said, he will accomplish his purpose. The young boy was none other than the great conquerer, Napoleon. We are what we think and our body is an image of the mind. The lines on our palms change as our thinking changes. We all have desires, but willpower is needed to achieve them. Desires operate on the mental level while willpower operates from the intellectual level. The desires are our wish list, which fizzles out gradually. It takes willpower to yield results. When we are intensely passionate, our desire translates into willpower, which is the secret to success. Success in life does not mean making lots of money. The world has seen many billionaires and we do not remember them all. Success does not mean becoming the CEO of a company. The world has seen many CEOs, prime ministers, and presidents. We do not remember them all. Success does not mean having six-pack abs. When Muhammad Ali won the boxing title in 1965, he had claimed that he would conquer the world with his power. But in 2015, he could not climb a dais because of Parkinson’s disease and needed support to even drink a cup of tea. Success does not mean becoming famous. We do not remember all celebrities. Our education system alone does not make us successful in life. Our exam results are not the yardstick for our success in life. Our life is much bigger than our university exams. Follow your passion The environmentalist, Tulsi Gowda, a tribal, who was awarded the Padma Shri, did not have an educational background. All she did was plant trees with all her heart. Right from childhood, she worked in a plant nursery. Over the years, she had planted over 1 lakh trees. She even became an adviser to the forest department. Her passion ensured that she is counted among the greats. The depth in our practice is more important than the breadth of out knowledge. To excel, we should not be a jack of all trades and master of none. We need not have many degrees or connections to succeed. Pandit Bhimsen Joshi knew only music. Sachin Tendulkar focused only on cricket. Tulasi Gowda knows only how to plant trees. Yet, they are all successful in life. A person wanted to get water by digging a well. His friend told him that digging a well at a particular place will get him water. It was hard labour and after digging for a metre or so someone suggested that he should try another place. So, this man started digging in that place. After digging for about 2m, he hit a rock. Then, a third person told him about another place. The man dug many holes over the years, but thirst remained unquenched. Had he continued digging in the same place, he would have quenched his thirst, along with the thirst of many other people. Before understanding the world, understand yourself. We must choose a path which we like and after thorough deliberation, we must stick to that. Do not keep on hopping from one pursuit to another. Sustained practise with intensity is the key to success. Be passionate about what you do. Do not imitate othersThere is no joy in imitating others. Do not aspire to become like someone else. Imitation leads to fear, stress, and anxiety in life. Aspire to become yourself. Every fingerprint is unique and so are you. No two fingerprints are the same. No two leaves in a tree are the same. No two fruits in a tree are the same. There is joy in you becoming yourself. There is freedom in you becoming yourself. Remember, imitation products fetch lower value than the original product. All actions do not give the same results. Actions are of four types – inaction, wrong action, selfish action, and selfless action. Only selfless action uplifts us and liberates us. The other three types of actions bind us and make us helpless. Maslow calls it self-actualisation. Most of the population is struggling to survive in the world. They just live for food and shelter and pass their life. In the Bhagavad Gita Lord Krishna says only a few in a million stand out, and the rest get wiped out unnoticed. Only a rare few will leave their footprint in the sands of time and the rest will get flushed out like worms. You can stand out when you become yourself. Make sure that you give the prime time of the day to yourself. You are the most important person in this world. In the case of an airplane emergency, one must put a mask on themselves, before assisting others. Similarly, one must look after oneself before reaching out to others. Stay away from narcotics and alcohol. Always associate with positive people. Do yoga asanas everyday, and do pranayama to keep yourself physically healthy and mentally calm. Meditate to connect within and declutter your mind and enrich your roots. Take pride in your culture Instil qualities such as fearlessness, truth, generosity, compassion, joy, and peace. Be proud of your family tradition, your culture, and your nation. Those who cannot appreciate their own culture, tradition, and nation cannot command respect in life. This is one of the golden rules of management strategy: if you are not successful in your home turf, you cannot have sustained success in other pitches. You must trust yourselves. If you do not have trust in yourself, you cannot expect others to trust you. Always think big, think positive, think great. Have a vision for your life. Have a role model for your life. By trusting yourself and with sustained practise you can convert your vision into reality. A good human being is in great demand across the world. This world is a small stage, and the entire universe is the arena. Play the game of your life with exuberance. This way you can celebrate your life. vasudevakriyayoga@gmail.com(The writer is the Melbourne-based founder of Vasudeva Kriya Yoga)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/guest-column-greatness-comes-to-those-who-think-big-101639261426257.html
12-12-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana | Lekhi takes a dig at Channi, calls him nominated not elected||Senior BJP leader and minister of state for external affair Meenakshi Lekhi, who is co-incharge of the party for assembly polls in Punjab, sang praise of former chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh and said that he was elected by the people as CM, whereas the present chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi was nominated by the Congress party president Sonia Gandhi.While targeting Channi, Lekhi said Channi was making false claims of subsidies and freebees to lure the innocent public. “The state has not seen development and this is largely the reason why the youth of the state are going abroad in pursuit of better careers and job,” said Lekhi.Lekhi, while addressing the issues being faced by the party workers, said that emphasis on maintaining law and order has always remained priority of the party. “We had done this in Gujarat and now in Uttar Pradesh (UP). Gujarat is already the most progressive state and UP too is also on the path of progress. If we come to power Punjab will also witness development,” said Lekhi.Lekhi said that the funds issued by the central government under Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojana (PMAY) were not being deposited directly into the account of common man and were being misused by the Congress ruled government. In the name of using the funds under the National Clean Air Programme, interlocking tiles are being used, which is a wastage of money.Lekhi said that if elected the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) government will get the matter probed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-lekhi-takes-a-dig-at-channi-calls-him-nominated-not-elected-101639260224662.html
12-12-2021||Chandigarh||Four car-borne persons open fire at Ludhiana resident||Four car-borne miscreants on Saturday opened fire at a man in Guru Angad Dev Nagar. The culprits fled after a few passersby began to gather at the spot.The victim, who escaped unhurt, has been identified as Manpreet Singh of Guru Angad Dev Nagar. Singh said he encountered the miscreants, who were in a Hyundai i-20 car, while he was headed to the nearby market on his motorcycle. The men opened fire at him following which he lost his balance and fell off his vehicle. Singh revealed that several passersby gathered at the spot forcing the miscreants to flee from the spot.Speaking to the police, Singh identified one of the four men. The police have initiated an investigation into the incident.Inspector Jasvir Singh, station head officer of the Division 6 police station, said the police will lodge an FIR after recording the full statement of the victim, before adding that they have already started the hunt for the accused.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/four-car-borne-persons-open-fire-at-ludhiana-resident-101639260103722.html
12-12-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana | Civic body, locals spar over encroachment||The anti-encroachment drive carried out by the Municipal Corporation’s Tehbazari wing and the traffic police, from Vishwakarma Chowk to Dholewal Military Complex, led to heated arguments between residents and authorities.The residents alleged that the police began towing vehicles which were parked well inside the permissible white line. The Tehbazari department, however, refuted the allegations, saying that the 22 two-wheelers and seven cars towed during the drive were all parked in the wrong spots. The shopkeepers, meanwhile, were asked to park their vehicles in the right spots.Notably, the Tehbazari wing of the civic body and the traffic police have jointy been conducting anti-encroachment drives in the city for the past five days, during which they have faced strong opposition from the local shopkeepers.The matter later snowballed into a political issue after the Shiromani Akali Dal and other political parties accused the police and civic body of harassing the public.Mahesh Inder Singh Grewal, former minister and senior Akali Dal leader, blamed the civic body and police for unnecessarily harassing the local population. He said, “Firstly, the police and civic body encourage encroachments. It is an open secret that a private towing company is harassing people and on many occasions, they have towed the vehicles which were parked correctly.” “Police officials remain silent as they receive cuts. Similarly civic body staff first take cuts from poor rehri-phari vendors and then harass them again on the name of anti- encroachment drive and sadly all this is being encouraged by the present Congress regime,” Grewal added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-civic-body-locals-spar-over-encroachment-101639259865875.html
12-12-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab assembly elections: Race for Mohali ticket picks up steam||Though the Punjab assembly elections are a few months away, the fight for tickets has already picked up steam in Mohali. From Congress, the name of sitting MLA Balbir Singh Sidhu has almost been finalised but the official announcement is yet to be made. Since 2007, Sidhu has won the Mohali seat three times in a row, and in 2017, he was awarded a cabinet berth after the Congress formed the government in the state. There are around 2.31 lakh voters in the Mohali assembly seat. This time, both Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) and Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) will be contesting independently as in September last year, SAD parted ways with the saffron party over the three agriculture laws, which have been scrapped now.From SAD, the names which are doing the rounds include, SAD vice-president Parvinder Singh Sohana, former PCS officer Balbir Singh Dhol and Youth Akali Dal senior vice-president Gurmeet Singh Bakarpur. From BJP, state executive member Sanjeev Vashisht is on the list of probable candidates.So far, the SAD has declared 87 candidates for the polls, which it is contesting in alliance with the Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP).From Aam Aadmi Party (AAP), the names of state joint secretary and spokesperson of AAP, Malvinder Singh Kang, former mayor Kulwant Singh, social worker, Dr Sunny Ahluwalia are doing the rounds.For the first time, SAD (Sanyukt) is also contesting elections and talks are going for an alliance with BJP and AAP.Senior Congress leader and deputy mayor Kuljeet Singh Bedi says, “The name of Balbir Singh Sidhu is almost finalised, but officially, it has to be announced. Sidhu will win with a thumping majority this time too.”SAD district president Charanjeet Singh Kalewal said, “We are carrying out a survey and hopefully, the local leader will get the ticket and an announcement will be made this month only.” AAP’s Mohali in-charge Govinder Mittal said, “Preference will be given to local candidates and tickets will be announced soon.”
12-12-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana | As farmer agitation ends, toll plazas get ready for ops||As farmers start returning from the Singhu and Tikri borders of Delhi, following the withdrawal of the three farm laws, the toll plazas are all set to roll out operations.Workers were seen fixing the toll booths, boom barriers and hoardings, on which the toll rates were mentioned.The security staff deployed at the toll plaza said that they were waiting for the green signal to start operations. “But it is highly unlikely that toll plaza will start anytime soon as farmers sitting at Singhu and Tikri Border will begin returning from today and the process will continue for a few days,” said the security staff.Banks and agents selling Fastags have also installed their kiosks near the toll plaza and the commuters could be seen visiting the toll plaza enquiring about monthly passes.Before operations were stopped a toll plaza, ₹125 was charge from a car or SUV for one-way trip, while ₹185 was charged for a return trip or for multiple journeys within 24 hours (only with Fastag). The rates were revised on September and now ₹135 is charged for a single journey, while ₹200 is charged for return trip or multiple journeys within 24 hours. Charanjit Singh, a resident of Sector- 32 Chandigarh Road, said, “We have learnt that companies are going to revise toll prices so we have decided to take monthly passes. The toll tax at Ladhowal Toll Plaza is by far the most expensive in the state. We have been told that the window for issuing monthly passes will open soon.”Professor Tarun Ghai expressed his concern over the traffic jams at the toll plaza. “If exorbitant tolls burn holes in commuters’ pocket, the long jams at the toll points also add to the problem. Before starting operation, these issues need to be addressed,” said professor Ghai.On the other hand, Virendra Kumar, project director NH-44, said toll operations will start after farmers decide to vacate the place. So far, the rates are not being revised, he said.The toll plazas from across the state were lying non-operational since October last year following the resolution passed by the farmer unions not to let the toll companies collect toll tax from commuters. The move was taken to register their protest against the three farm laws.Pirthipal Singh from Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU Kadian) said a Sukhmani Sahib path will be organised on December 15 to honour the farmers returning from Singhu following which the decision will be taken on vacating temporary establishments from the toll plaza.Activists from NGOs, religious organisations and workers of political parties, especially the Congress, Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) and Aam Aadmi Party made a beeline to welcome the farmers returning from Singhu and Tikri borders. At many places langars (community kitchens) were organised to welcome farmers.On reaching Doraha the activists of BKU Ughrahan showered flower petals to welcome the farmers. Congress leader KK Bawa also offered ladoos to the farmers visiting or crossing the city.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-as-farmer-agitation-ends-toll-plazas-get-ready-for-ops-101639259144459.html
12-12-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana | ₹9.5-lakh robbery: Hosiery owner’s driver gets clean-chit||Police suspect the involvement of an insider in the robbery that took place at a hosiery unit near Cheema Chowk. However, the prime suspect, the hosiery owner’s driver, has been given a clean chit. The driver, Radhey Mohan Thapar, had not alighted from the car or tried to chase the robbers as they fled after executing the crime in 15 seconds, which the police had found suspicious. However, a probe failed to link him to the robbery. On being questioned, Thapar said, “Everything happened so quickly, that I was unable to make sense of it.” Inspector Surinder Chopra, station house officer at the Moti Nagar police station, said, “The modus operandi is different from the robberies reported in the city over the past few months.The accused were armed with sharp-edged weapons and iron rods rather than firearms. We are close to solving the case, and have rounded up a few suspects.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-9-5-lakh-robbery-hosiery-owner-s-driver-gets-cleanchit-101639258723774.html
12-12-2021||Chandigarh||27-year-old man killed in hit and run in Mullanpur||In yet another hit-and-run case, a 27-year-old man died after a truck hit his motorcycle on the Siswan-Baddi road in Mullanpur on late Friday evening. The deceased was identified as Ravi Kumar, a resident of Barotiwala in Himachal Pardesh.Investigating officer Gurnam Singh said, Kumar and his friend Shinder Singh had come to Mullanpur for some work, and were returning home when the mishap took place. Kumar was riding pillion.After the collision, Kumar fell down the road and died on the spot. His friend managed to escape unhurt. The truck driver, meanwhile, fled the spot. “We are checking closed-circuit television (CCTV) camera footage to trace the accused,” said the investigating officer. Kumar had got married just a year ago and used to work in a private firm. Police have registered a case of rash driving and negligence against the truck driver, at Mullanpur police station. The body was handed over to family members after post-mortem at Kharar civil hospital.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/27yearold-man-killed-in-hit-and-run-in-mullanpur-101639258303694.html
12-12-2021||Chandigarh||Mohali: Men who snatched PCS officers’ car came in vehicle with fake number plates||Three days after the car of a Punjab Civil Services’ (PCS) officer was snatched at gunpoint on the road dividing Sectors 86 and 87 in Mohali, police are still groping in the dark for clues. On December 8, at around 10.45, Rajesh Tripathi, the additional secretary of information technology, was returning to his official residence in Purab Premium Apartments, Sector 88, from Phase 11 in Mohali when the incident took place. The car snatchers had come in a Maruti Swift and waylaid the officer’s Ertiga. Police have now ascertained that the number plates of the accused’s car was fake. Investigating officer Amrik Singh said, “We have not got any leads so far, but after examining the closed-circuit television camera footage, we got to know that the car went towards Banur side. We are now checking the CCTV footages at Patiala, Rajpura and Ambal. Four teams of the police are on job.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/mohali-men-who-snatched-pcs-officers-car-came-in-vehicle-with-fake-number-plates-101639258123626.html
12-12-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana | ‘Good Samaritan’ steals ₹20k from elderly person||A man, who had pretended to be a Good Samaritan, was booked on Friday for swapping an elderly person’s debit card and stealing ₹20,000 from his account. The complainant, Satpal Monga, 70, of Neta Ji Nagar said he had gone to an ICICI Bank ATM near Jalandhar Bypass to withdraw cash from his savings account using his debit card on December 3. However, he faced some difficulty in withdrawing the money. The accused, who was already present at the ATM offered to help. However, in the process, he swapped his ATM with a fake one. The accused, later withdrew ₹20,000 from his bank account using the debit card from some another ATM. He learnt of the ATM theft only after he received a message from the bank about the transaction.Assistant sub-inspector Jagjit Singh, who is investigating the case, said an FIR had been registered under Sections 406 (criminal breach of trust) and 420 (cheating and dishonestly inducing delivery of property) of the Indian Penal Code against the unidentified accused.CCTV footage has captured the accused riding away from the area on a scooter and police have the registration number of the vehicle used.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-good-samaritan-steals-20k-from-elderly-person-101639258064170.html
12-12-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: Cycle thief who escaped lock-up lands in police net||Four days after escaping the lock-up in Sector 39, a 26-year-old man, accused of cycle theft, has landed in the police net.The accused, Divesh Sharma of Balongi village in Mohali, had escaped from police custody on Tuesday. He had been arrested for allegedly stealing high-end bicycles from Sectors 38 West, 56 and parts of Mohali. In all, 13 stolen cycles were recovered from him.As per the police, after escaping custody, the accused hitched rides from passersby and managed to reach Mohali. He also went to Panjyali and Kathgarh in Himachal Pradesh, and Solkhian and Amritsar in Punjab. He took shelter in gurdwaras on the way. As he did not have any cash on him, police were sure that he would try to contact his family members. On Saturday, they received a tip-off that the accused was heading to Chandigarh and was spotted on the road dividing Sectors 55 and 56. Police immediately set up a naka and nabbed him. As per the police, Sharma has been debarred by his parents due to his drug addiction. His father works in Solan while his mother is a housewife. He has two brothers --one a teacher and the other a software engineer-- and one sister who is married. The accused was produced before court and sent to judicial custody. He now faces a case under Sections 223 (escape from confinement or custody negligently suffered by a public servant) and 224 (resistance or obstruction by a person to his lawful apprehension) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC).On the intervening night of Monday and Tuesday, assistant sub-inspector (ASI) Charanjit Singh, who was the reserve officer of the Sector-39 police station, had found the shoes of the accused missing. When he went towards the main lock-up, he found that two iron rods were folded and the accused was also missing. Sharma’s escape had led to action against the erring cops. Station house officer (SHO) inspector Ashok Kumar was transferred to the PCR branch and replaced by inspector Juldan Singh. Two woman cops, including assistant sub-inspector Birmati, who was the night munshi, and constable Geeta, who was on the women desk, were suspended.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-cycle-thief-who-escaped-lock-up-lands-in-police-net-101639257883938.html
12-12-2021||Chandigarh||At 7.6°C, Chandigarh records coldest night of season so far||The city’s minimum temperature dropped from 9.4°C on Friday to 7.6°C on Saturday, the lowest it has gone so far this season, as per the India Meteorological Department (IMD). While the temperature will remain along similar lines over the next three to four days, a drop can be expected later.IMD officials said, “With snowfall in hilly areas around Chandigarh and clear skies in the night, the minimum temperature had dropped. Due to a weak western disturbance, it will stay around similar lines in the next few days.”At 7.6°C, the minimum temperature is still one degree above normal.The maximum temperature also went down from 24.1°C on Saturday. Over the next three days, the maximum temperature will remain around 22°C while the minimum temperature will remain around 8°C.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/at-7-6-c-chandigarh-records-coldest-night-of-season-so-far-101639257283739.html
12-12-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh Congress chief slams BJP for non-payment of ex-gratia to kin of Covid victims||: Chandigarh Congress slammed the BJP-led municipal corporation on Saturday for not disclosing the details of expenditures to the tune of ₹40 crore made out of the collected Covid cess. Chandigarh Congress president Subhash Chawla said that as per Disaster Management Act, 2005, every family whose member died due to a disaster is entitled for ex-gratia compensation of ₹4 lakh. “Since Covid-19 has been declared as a disaster, every family who lost a member to the disease is entitled to ex-gratia compensation. During the resumed hearing in the matter before the Supreme Court in June, the BJP-led government had conveyed that pleas seeking directions for compensation are genuine and are being attended to. But, till today, the government has done nothing to grant it,” he said. Chawla said that the actual data of declared Covid deaths is still understated, but in spite of all this, BJP is falsely claiming to have effectively controlled the pandemic in the city. Rajiv Sharma, spokesperson of Chandigarh Congress, stated that instead of patting their own back, BJP should apologise to the people of Chandigarh for failing the city on all fronts. “Not only this, the BJP councillors have indulged in massive corruption during the last six years. This is evident from the fact that despite back breaking increase in taxes, the corporation finds it difficult to pay even the salaries of the employees,” he said. He further stated that when the BJP took over in 2015, the Corporation had a fixed deposit of ₹500 crore. “Today, this whole amount has been squandered by the BJP led MC by indulging in corrupt practices and wasteful expenditure,” he said. ‘BJP false housing scheme shattered employees’ dreams’Chandigarh: For the past eight years, BJP has denied the rights of employees for housing facility, despite the fact that in 2008, as many as 4,000 accommodations were announced and in 2010, a lucky draw was held on the basis of which these residences were to be allotted, but it turned out to be a false promise. This was stated by Rajinder Rana, coordinator MC elections and sitting Congress MLA from Sujanpur, Himachal Pradesh, while addressing an election rally on Saturday in support of Congress candidate Harpreet Kaur Babla from ward no. 10 in Sector 29. Rana said that in 2008, the BJP government promised to provide housing facility to the employees at the rate of ₹34 lakh for three BHK, ₹24 lakh for two BHK of and one BHK for ₹13 lakh. During the time, it was agreed to provide one BHK for ₹5 lakh under EWS scheme, but on the condition that the applicant should not have his residence in the tricity. It was during the Lok Sabha elections in 2014 that the BJP again promised that the accommodations will be allotted soon. But, due to unfulfilled political promises for the last eight years, many of those eligible have lost hope as either many have retired and few are no more alive. Now, when the prices of the property are sky rocketing, these people cannot even imagine of purchasing a new home. The price of 3 BHK has soared to around ₹1.76 crore and that of 2BHK and 1 BHK have also risen, shattering the dream of these employees, said Rana.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-congress-chief-slams-bjp-for-non-payment-of-ex-gratia-to-kin-of-covid-victims-101639256983685.html
12-12-2021||Chandigarh||At 11, Chandigarh tricity area’s daily Covid count in double digits for 7th day in row||As many as 11 fresh infections of Covid-19 were reported in the tricity on Saturday, against 18 cases the day before. The maximum, five, cases were reported from Chandigarh, followed by four in Panchkula and two from Mohali.None of the three jurisdictions reported any death on Saturday. For the seventh consecutive day, the single day tally of the tricity remained in double digits. This month, the highest single-day tally was recorded on December 8 when there were 22 infections. On Saturday, Mohali district detected the cases from Mohali city and Kharar. Chandigarh’s infections were reported from Sectors 22, 34, 37, 45 and Mauli Jagran. In Panchkula, infections were reported from Sectors 6, 7 and 17. With cases being reported in double digits daily, the tricity’s active cases tally is also increasing. The active case count reached 156 on Saturday, with 72 patients still being infected in Mohali, 55 in Chandigarh, and 29 in Panchkula.Chandigarh has so far reported 65,623 positive cases, of which 64,492 have been cured and 1,076 have died. In Mohali, the total cases recorded till date are 69,028. Among these, 67,883 patients have recovered and 1,073 have died. Panchkula’s caseload of 30,865 includes 30,457 recoveries and 379 casualties.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/at-11-chandigarh-tricity-area-s-daily-covid-count-in-double-digits-for-7th-day-in-row-101639256863640.html
12-12-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh MC polls: AAP promises free water, electricity in city||The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) has promised to speed up works for public welfare through good governance in Chandigarh after winning the civic body elections. AAP also promised to beautify all the wards, especially rural areas. While addressing a press conference at the Press Club on Saturday, senior AAP leader and MP Shushil Gupta said that just like Delhi, AAP will provide 24X7 electricity, water, and free health services to everyone in Chandigarh. He was accompanied by member of Parliament ND Gupta and AAP Chandigarh president Prem Garg. Instead of putting a hefty tax on the public, he further said that world-class schools and hospitals will be made in the city. “Parking is the major problem in the city. When AAP comes into power in MC, proper parking arrangements will be made not only in the markets, but also in residential areas,” said Gupta. Gupta added that AAP has introduced politics of good governance and work in Delhi by freeing the people from the clutches of corruption-free nepotism. He further said that the AAP government has brought a new model of education system in Delhi, by which students will not only be eligible to get jobs but also become job givers. Gupta said that the Chandigarh MC is at the peak of poverty, while the budget of Delhi government is going into additional savings every year through the politics of good governance. He appealed to the people to make the AAP win by casting their votes for convenient and comprehensive arrangements in Chandigarh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-mc-polls-aap-promises-free-water-electricity-in-city-101639256745545.html
12-12-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: PGI psychiatry department head among two more duped by former Sector-51 RWA chief||Two more persons, including a department head at Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER), have come forward against former Sector 51 residents’ welfare association (RWA) president Manjit Kaur, who allegedly duped people on the pretext of providing them HIG flats under the UT administrator’s discretionary quota. Dr Debashish Basu, the head of the department of psychiatry, said he was cheated of ₹29.2 lakh, while Vishal Sagar and others from Peer Muchalla, Zirakpur, were cheated of ₹4.35 crore. Kaur is now involved in six such cases and is currently lodged in Burail jail.As per the police, Dr Basu, who is a resident of Sector 24, got to know Kaur as he was treating her son, Vijay Pal Singh, for a mental illness. Kaur earned Dr Basu’s trust over the years by portraying herself as a religious and charitable person. In August 2016, she had approached Dr Basu and said that she was close to the then UT administrator VP Singh Badnore and she is part of a committee constituted by him to re-allot and renovate surrendered properties in Chandigarh under his discretionary quota. She said that she would get them a house allotted in Sector 38 West or Sector 43 which would be legal but it would have to be kept confidential.Dr Basu paid over ₹42 lakh between 2016 and 2018. When she wasn’t able to give any receipts for the money taken from them paid to the authorities they got impatient and she even returned ₹35 lakh only to ask for ₹30 lakh more in January 2020. Later when news about her arrest spread, other victims started to come forward.Using similar means, she had duped various residents of Peer Muchalla in Zirakpur, including Vishal Sagar who she had met in 2018. After taking money from them, she had assured that they would get allotment when the Prime Minister will visit the city under the Pradhan Mantri Aawas Yojana on August 15 2019. While making excuses for the delay, she had asked for more time but later the complainants found out that she had siphoned off the money to offshore accounts and was planning to flee the country. They had paid ₹4,35,66,000 to her for this.Two cases under sections 406 (criminal breach of trust) and 420 (cheating) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) have been registered against Kaur and her family at the Sector 49 police station. She has been lodged in jail for the past month and has three cases lodged against her at the Sector 49 police station and three cases are being investigated by the Economic Offences Wing. Police officials said it is hard to estimate how much money she had gathered through this modus operandi and it is expected that more complainants will come forward.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-pgi-psychiatry-department-head-among-two-more-duped-by-former-sector-51-rwa-chief-101639256567636.html
12-12-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh has become one of the safest cities for women during BJP’s tenure: Srinivasan||BJP Mahila Morcha national president Vanathi Srinivasan on Saturday said that Chandigarh is one of the safest cities for women. The BJP in its six-year tenure has ensured that CCTV cameras are installed in every nook and corner of the city, which has given a new dimension to women’s security as well as all sections of the society, she added. Srinivasan, who is also the sitting MLA from Coimbatore, was interacting with mediapersons at BJP’s office, Kamalam, in Sector 33 during her visit to the city ahead of the upcoming MC elections on December 24. She said that Chandigarh as a city is driven by the “double engine” administration, which directly benefits from the central government’s schemes. She further ensured there shouldn’t be an issue for funding from the apex. She said the people had expressed their satisfaction over development with the BJP’s success in the last MC elections, which has indicated that voters have made up their mind to dismiss Congress and others. Advocating to implement “Mission Vikas” to take Chandigarh forward in the field of development, Srinivasan said that she met all the office bearers of the Pradesh Morcha to ensure all-round development of women. Earlier, welcoming Srinivas, BJP Chandigarh president Arun Sood said that her visit will strengthen the Mahila Morcha and candidates here. Khattar to campaign in city today Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar will be campaigning in support of BJP candidates on Sunday. BJP spokesperson Kailash Chand Jain said that the CM along with many senior leaders will be in the city supporting the party’s candidates. He will be addressing a public meeting for Nikita Gupta from ward number five in Manimajra, Usha from ward number 16 in Sector 25 and Ravinder Rawat from ward number 27 in Sector 39 Park. Jain said Khattar will return in campaigning colours on December 16 in support of party candidate Ravikant Sharma from ward number 17 in Sector 22, Rajinder Sharma from ward number 35 in Sector 49 market and Harjit Singh from ward no. 8 in Mauli Jagran. Jain added that Ambala MP Anil Vij and former Union minister Ratanlal Kataria will be campaigning in support of party candidate Rajesh Kalia from ward number 26, Manoj Sonkar from ward number 7, Bharat Kumar from ward no. 16 and Usha from ward number 16.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-has-become-one-of-the-safest-cities-for-women-during-bjp-s-tenure-srinivasan-101639256565855.html
12-12-2021||Chandigarh||As protest ends, Ambala farmer changes his black ensemble after a year||Days after the Union government accepted all demands of the Sanyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM), an umbrella body spearheading the protest at the Delhi borders, a large contingent of farmers have started returning to their homes. This also marked the first time since August 15 last year that veteran farmer leader from Ambala, Gulab Singh, 81, changed out of his black attire. He is one of the oldest members of the Bhartiya Kisan Union and joined Gurnam Singh Charuni in 2015 and is currently district vice-president of the Ambala unit. “When the protest in Delhi had not started and we observed a “black day” against the laws for the first time at the district grain market in the city, we were asked to carry a black cloth to the protest site. But, I wore a fully black ensemble. I also announced there that till the laws are repealed, I will wear the same dress and turban as a mark of protest,” he said. An ex-serviceman with the Indian Air Force (IAF), Singh retired as a sergeant after 21 years of service in 1985. He has been booked in over seven cases for protesting in favour of farmers. A progressive farmer from Manakpur village, he campaigned actively for Charuni when he unsuccessfully contested from Kurukshetra’s Ladwa seat as an independent candidate in the 2019 assembly elections. On being asked about his pledge, he said, “Surprising many, I even attended weddings in this attire. I had told my wife that even if the laws are not repealed and I die in between, the family will not replace my clothes and cremate me in it.” SKM leaders including Charuni, Rakesh Tikait, Balbir Rajewal, Dr Darshan Pal and others will be welcomed at the cantonment’s Mohra Mandi on Sunday, from where they had left for the Delhi borders in November last year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/as-protest-ends-ambala-farmer-changes-his-black-ensemble-after-a-year-101639256328972.html
12-12-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh MC polls: With 2-lakh strong voter base, natives of HP, UP, Uttarakhand on parties’ radar||With around two lakh votes at stake, the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and the opposition Congress are leaving no stone unturned to woo the natives of Himachal Pradesh, Uttarakhand and Uttar Pradesh (particularly Purvanchal) residing in the city.City’s peripheral areas, including the rehabilitation colonies and villages, have a large population of people from these states. In more than 12 wards, voters of HP, UP and Uttarakhand-origin are the central focus of the parties’ campaign. In these wards, the parties have given tickets to natives of these states.The star campaigners’ list of both parties features the who’s who from these states.The BJP has roped in UP chief minister (CM) Yogi Adityanath, Uttarakhand CM Pushkar Singh Dhami and Himachal Pradesh CM Jairam Thakur. The party is counting on Union minister Anurag Thakur to woo voters from Himachal. Union minister of state for defence Ajay Bhatt, who is also a former state president in Uttarakhand, is being roped in to campaign among the Uttarakhand-origin residents of the city.With an eye on natives of UP, Bhojpuri actor-turned-politician, Delhi MP Manoj Tewari and Bhojpuri singer Dinesh Lal Yadav (Nirahua) will be campaigning for the BJP in the city.For the Congress, Uttarakhand CM Harish Rawat, Himachal Pradesh MP Pratibha Singh and Kanhiya Kumar are among the star campaigners roped in, with the voters of these states in mind.Notably, both BJP and Congress have placed senior leaders from Himachal in key campaign positions. While BJP’s Rajya Sabha MP Indu Bala Goswami has been made the election co-in-charge, in Congress, the party’s Sujanpur MLA Rajinder Rana is the election coordinator. In addition to allotting tickets, the parties are also organising cultural and social events keeping in mind people from these states.HP Congress MLAs, senior functionaries for MC pollsRana, said, “We are bringing in 35 senior functionaries from HP who will make the city their base and campaign, with a particular focus on HP residents living in the city. Rana, who himself has a residence in Chandigarh, is also campaigning across the city and had recently organised cultural-social events with HP natives living in the city.For other state natives too, the Congress is aiming to bring volunteers and leaders from these states. “I have asked all the candidates to submit the names of leaders from any other state. We will also put in service volunteers from these states,” said Rana.
12-12-2021||Chandigarh||Vicky Middukhera murder: Kin seeking arrest of accused by Mohali police||Family members and friends of Youth Akali Dal leader Vikramjeet Singh alias Vicky Middukhera, who was shot dead on August 7 this year, took out a “justice march” on Saturday to oppose the alleged delay in the arrest of the accused. The march began from Phase 3B2 market in Mohali and culminated at the Amb Sahib Gurudwara. A large number of youth, advocates, members of civil society, various NGOs, retired bureaucrats and others joined the march, holding placards and banners seeking “justice for Vicky Middukhera”. The march also formally signalled the start of #justiceforvickymiddukhera campaign on social media. “We are still hopeful to get justice. We have full faith in the Mohali police, but the delay in nabbing the killers of my brother is quite painful. He was a thoroughly gentle person with no controversy around his personality. Why should anyone kill him? I appeal to the Mohali police to nab the culprits forthwith,” said Ajaypal Singh, Middukhera’s brother. On August 7, four shooters came to eliminate Middukhera, out of which two executed the killings whereas other two were waiting in a car nearby. Out of all the four, two shooters were of Bhola-Latth gang and other two were of Bambiha gang run by Gaurav Padial, but police is yet to arrest the main accused.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/vicky-middukhera-murder-kin-seeking-arrest-of-accused-by-mohali-police-101639255844470.html
12-12-2021||Chandigarh||Panchkula woman cheated of ₹70,000||A Panchkula woman was duped of ₹70,403 while trying to get her insurance cancelled, police said on Friday. The victim, Pallavi Gupta, stated in her complaint that on November 1, unknown callers impersonating as customer care executives from SBI asked for her card number to cancel her insurance. “They later asked for an OTP on my number that I sent through Whatsapp on their another number. Soon, the cash was debited from my account,“ she stated. A case has been registered.MORE TRICITY NEWS IN BRIEFSSensitisation session held at PUThe department of evening studies– multi-disciplinary research centre, Panjab University, in collaboration with the varsity’s central placement cell, organised a sensitisation session for around 100 students of the department. The alumni of the department from diverse fields addressed the students and shared their experiences with them. Faculty training programme concludes The valedictory function marking the completion of the 21-day faculty training programme on the trends in immuno techniques organised by professor Archana Bhatnagar at the department of biochemistry, Panjab University (PU), was held on Saturday. SK Tomar, dean research, PU, addressed the gathering and highlighted the role of faculty in moulding the students.Cycle rally to spread awareness on lifestyle-related diseases To raise awareness on lifestyle-related diseases, civil surgeon Dr Adarshpal Kaur on Saturday flagged off a cycle rally from the district hospital here. A total of 35 cyclists and organisers took part in the rally which was organised by the district health department and culminated near Verka Chowk. Basketball trials today The Chandigarh Basketball Association will be conducting trials on December 12 to select U-18 probables for a camp (both boys and girls) at Sri Guru Gobind Singh College, Sector 26, at 4.30pm. Players born on or after January 1, 2003, and presently studying in Chandigarh are eligible to participate /Vijay Hazare Trophy: Punjab beat Assam Punjab beat Assam by 10 wickets in a match played during the ongoing Vijay Hazare Trophy in Ranchi on Saturday. Batting first, Assam was bundled out for a score of 125 runs in 34.5 overs. In reply, Punjab achieved the target without any loss of wickets in 15.2 overs. Yamunanagar’s Bilaspur gets its new divisional court buildingPunjab and Haryana high court judge and chairman of the Haryana Building Committee, Justice Ajay Tiwari, on Saturday inaugurated the new judicial complex of Yamunanagar’s Bilaspur sub-division. Justice Tiwari said that with the new facilities provided for Bar and Bench, he is hopeful that both will render their best services to deal with cases. UT joint secretary launches school magazineUT joint secretary home, Manish Kumar Lohan, launched the school magazine of Gurukul Global School, Manimajra, titled “insight”, on Saturday. Lohan was the chief guest while author Tisha Khosla was the guest of honour and also launched the school’s young authors club. The chief guest also released a book penned by Bhvansh Goyal, a Class 10 student of the school.Police disposes of 273 complaintsh Know your case and public grievances redressal camps were organised at all police stations/units from 10am to 2pm on Saturday. As many as 373 people visited the public grievances camp and 16 under know your case scheme and a total of 273 complaints were disposed of.230 cases disposed off in e-National Lok Adalat
12-12-2021||Chandigarh||Tricity Buzz: Amid Omicron scare, Chandigarh cops on trail of South Africa returnee||Enforcing quarantine norms is no mean task. Chandigarh Police had a tough time locating a South Africa returnee, who had tested negative for Covid-19 but had to isolate herself amid the Omicron scare. She had broken the mandatory quarantine protocol and checked into a hotel. It was one task for the UT administration to trace the woman and isolate her. Chandigarh Police were prompt in booking her for breaking norms, while she was shifted to Government Multi Specialty Hospital, Sector 16. At the hospital, four police personnel were deployed outside the isolation ward, just to keep an eye on the woman. Call it a waste of manpower or unethical behaviour of the woman, but the authorities couldn’t possibly afford to let her roam around the town. Chandigarh MC elections: Allegations fly thick and fast With the Chandigarh municipal corporation elections round the corner, allegations by candidates against their rivals are flying thick and fast. In some cases, party colleagues are not missing this opportunity to score brownie points. For instance, a senior Congress leader called up journalists alleging that his party colleague was campaigning for his son even on a day when political parties had decided to suspend their campaigns as a mark of respect to chief of defence staff General Bipin Rawat, who died in a helicopter crash on December 8. When asked for proof, the leader said it’s not his job. United colours of BJP The Chandigarh BJP known for its factionalism is trying hard to present a united front in the run-up to the civic elections. All senior leaders are seen together at important party events these days. But sometimes it gets difficult, and embarrassing. During a recent press conference called to list out the BJP’s achievements in the past six years, Chandigarh unit president Arun Sood, former MP Satya Pal Jain and mayor Ravi Kant Sharma were in attendance. Soon after Sood started addressing the media, both Jain and Sharma left. “One of them had an important call to attend, and the other was to go to another event,” a BJP leader explained, requesting anonymity. AAP knows its chances With only one of the four senior Aam Aadmi Party leaders following AAP supremo Arvind Kejriwal’s direction to contest the municipal corporation elections, both the Congress and the BJP are taking a swipe at the party’s chances. “Kejriwal asked party convener Prem Garg, co-incharge Pardeep Chhabra, election campaign in-charge Chander Mukhi Sharma and a member of the Harmohan Dhawan family to contest the elections. Except Sharma, nobody entered the fray. This indicates that they also know that their party doesn’t stand a chance,” said a Congress leader. Mohali ex-mayor unsure of party but sure of voters! Kulwant Singh, a former mayor of Mohali and real estate baron, is still undecided from which party he will contest the Punjab assembly elections early next year, but he is pulling out all stops to woo voters. Every day, he meets people from different areas and distributes ration, quilts, and sports kits. His son Sarabjeet Singh Samana, who is a Mohali MC councillor, is also assisting him. Kulwant is lobbying hard for the ticket from the Aam Aadmi Party, but he has not joined the party yet. Sign of the times, MC campaigners keep off With the season of the MC elections upon us, many residents complain of how councillors, who remained inaccessible during their tenure, are suddenly reminded of their neighbourhoods while campaigning. In Sector 33-B, the Residents Welfare Association general secretary has put up a board asking campaigners not to bother coming for votes. “Our previous councillor ignored the sector. These people make many promises but stop listening after the elections, hence the board,” said Kuljinder Sra. Employees of the month at GMSH-16 In an initiative to boost the morale of the healthcare staff, the Government Multi Specialty Hospital, Sector 16, will honour four best employees every month. Based on their performance, the director, health services, will choose the best staff nurse, sanitation worker, class four employee and pharmacist every month. Besides appreciation certificates, their names and pictures will be displayed at a wall, titled Employees of the month just outside the DHS’s office. PU mess rate hike difficult to digest for PU students The revised rates of eatables in Panjab University (PU) hostels has been difficult to digest for students. The revision of the rates came after a representation by mess/canteen contractors. Over the past few days, student bodies submitted several representations to the university authorities, demanding a rollback. A protest was also held at the Students’ Centre but the authorities are yet to decide on their demand. The students argue that the rates are already higher as compared to other educational institutions in the city. Inputs by Hillary Victor, Munieshwer A Sagar, Rajanbir Singh, Mandeep Kaur Narula and Dar Ovais||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/tricity-buzz-amid-omicron-scre-chandigarh-cops-on-trail-of-south-africa-returnee-101639255003805.html
12-12-2021||Chandigarh||UGC pay scales row: PU, college teachers continue protest||Teachers of Panjab University (PU) and colleges in Chandigarh continued their protest on Saturday over the non-implementation of the revised UGC pay scales by the Punjab government as per the Seventh Pay Commission recommendations . Panjab University Teachers Association (PUTA) staged a protest at the varsity gate to press for the demand. A meeting of the district council of Punjab and Chandigarh College Teachers Union (PCCTU) was also held at DAV College in Sector 10 regarding the ongoing protest of teachers in Chandigarh and Punjab. They also held a dharna to protest for their demands. Protests are being held by teachers as part of a state-wide “education bandh” (halt to academic activities) under the banner of Punjab Federation of University and College Teachers Federation (PFUCTO). PUTA president Mritunjay Kumar, said, “It is difficult to understand the reasons behind the delay in implementation of UGC pay scales, as per the 7th pay commission by the Punjab Government, when all other states of the country had implemented it a long time back. PUTA also informed teachers that they are also planning to approach AICC president Sonia Gandhi, vice-president Rahul Gandhi and PPCC president Navjot Singh Sidhu and submit a petition about their demands after running a signature campaign within campus.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ugc-pay-scales-row-pu-college-teachers-continue-protest-101639254645156.html
12-12-2021||Chandigarh||Srinagar: Foreign militant involved in Bandipora attack, say investigators||In the attack that left two policemen dead in Bandipora last night, investigators say a foreign militant was involved in the killing of cops.Officers privy to details of the investigation say that a Pakistani militant who was assisted by two locals had carried out the attack on the escort personal of the station house officer, Bandipora. The police also released the CCTV footage in which a militant wearing a “pheran” (long gown) is seen fleeing from the spot after carrying out the attack. Investigators said at the time of the attack, the militant was assisted by some overground workers.On Saturday, a high-level meeting was held by a joint team of the Army and police officers in the backdrop of the killings of the two cops in Bandipora. The meeting was chaired by inspector general of police Vijay Kumar.J&K director general of police Dilbag Singh along with senior officers visited the house of one of the slain cops in north Kashmir’s Sopore area and met his family members.Dilbag Singh told reporters that the police are investigating which group is responsible for the attack and killings of two cops in Bandipora. “We have got some leads and clues and the police is investigating those leads. Those involved in the attack will be taken to the task.”Singh said militants are picking soft targets and also hinted about a few recent incidents of infiltration from North Kashmir.Two policemen were killed in north Kashmir’s Bandipora town when militants attacked a police party at a busy market at Gulshan Chowk in Bandipora on Friday evening. After the attack militants managed to flee from the spot.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/srinagar-foreign-militant-involved-in-bandipora-attack-say-investigators-101639254528548.html
12-12-2021||Chandigarh||Kashmir braces for fresh spell of snowfall; Srinagar records coldest night of season||Jammu and Kashmir summer capital Srinagar recorded the coldest night of the season as the mercury dipped to minus 3.6°C amid the weather office’s prediction of a coming western disturbance from the night of December 14 which may bring snow and rains.Nights continued to record sub-zero temperatures in Kashmir for the seventh day on Saturday with the mercury plunging to - 6.4 °C in the mountain resort of Pahalgam in south Kashmir.The days remain warm as the sun continues to come out bright and break the effect of chilling night temperatures. Occasionally mornings remain foggy.The night temperature in all weather stations remained below zero.In north Kashmir, the ski resort of Gulmarg recorded a night temperature of -5.5 °C.The summer capital Srinagar recorded -3.6 °C as against -2.6 °C a night earlier. “This was the coldest night so far in Srinagar this season, going down 3 degrees from the normal of -0.6 °C,” an official of the meteorological department said.It was -4.5 °C in Konibal, - 4.3 °C in Kupwara, and -3.7 °C in Qazigund.In the union territory of Ladakh, Drass recorded bone-chilling - 18 °C while it was – 12.1 °C in Leh during the night.The weather office modified its prediction of snow and rains in the union territories of Jammu and Kashmir and Ladakh next week. Director, meteorological department of J&K and Ladakh, Sonam Lotus said that the dry weather spell will break by the night of December 14.“As of now, light snow and rain in the plains of J&K is most likely during the nights of December 14 and 15,” he said.He said the higher reaches especially of north Kashmir may receive moderate snowfall during the above period.“Light to Moderate Snow is also likely at places like Sonmarg-Drass axis, Panikhar-Padum and on other higher reaches of Kargil and Leh dist during the above period,” he said.“There’s no forecast of any heavy rain and snow during this spell of western disturbance,” he said.The weather is most likely to remain generally cloudy during December 14-16th in Ladakh. Jammu and Kashmir had witnessed a day of light rains and snow on Sunday last. Srinagar had received rains on Sunday while snow fell on mountainous areas like Gulmarg in north Kashmir and Shopian in south Kashmir. Some areas of Jammu were hit by hails. Moderate snowfall was also reported at Kargil, Zanskar and in the higher reaches of Leh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/kashmir-braces-for-fresh-spell-of-snowfall-srinagar-records-coldest-night-of-season-101639254525098.html
12-12-2021||Chandigarh||Amid clamour for action in Punjab drug cases, ADGP Asthana proceeds on leave||In a significant development, Punjab additional director general of police and head of Bureau of Investigation SK Asthana on Saturday proceeded on two-day leave amid reports of pressure on the Charanjit Singh Channi-led Congress government to take action on the politically sensitive drug cases. Asthana was posted as BoI chief a fortnight ago, replacing ADGP Varinder Kumar, apparently to initiate the process to arrest a high-profile Shiromani Akali Dal politician. In his leave application to DGP, seen by HT, Asthana said that he had medical emergency with severe atrial fibrillation of heart leading to abnormal heart rhythm and heart rate. “I have been advised by the doctor to be on complete medical rest for next 48-hours” he said, seeking exemption from his scheduled meeting with chief minister on Saturday morning. A section of the ruling Congress led by state party chief Navjot Sidhu has lately stepped up pressure on Channi to act on the drug and sacrilege cases to fulfil the promises the party had made ahead of 2017 assembly polls. Before Kumar’s short stint, Arpit Shukla was moved out as BOI head. “Both officials replaced before Asthana had expressed their inability to take action against a former Akali minister stating that there was nothing concrete against him on official files,” said a senior official familiar with developments. Asthana, when contacted, attributed his two-day leave to medical emergency. “I don’t know what pressure you are talking about. I have faced many a political pressure in my career but the exact reason behind my application is my serious ailment,” he told HT. Senior officials privy to the developments said the BoI has been under immense pressure from the government to take action against a former Akali minister after officials of special task force (STF) on drugs had expressed their inability to book any high-profile person till its 2018 drug report, lying in sealed cover with the Punjab and Haryana high court, is not opened. 
12-12-2021||Chandigarh||Military Literature Festival 2021: India capable of giving befitting reply to aggressive countries, says Punjab governor||India has never attacked another country but is capable of giving a befitting reply to any country that shows aggression towards it, Punjab Governor and Chandigarh administrator Banwarilal Purohit said on Saturday, on the inaugural day of the fifth edition of the Military Literature Festival (MLF).The festival, which was held virtually due to the pandemic situations, was organised jointly by the government of Punjab, Chandigarh administration and the Western Command of the Indian Army. The festival focused on the golden jubilee of the victory in 1971 India-Pakistan war.Speaking on the occasion, Purohit said, “India has never attacked another country but has sacrificed lives for other nations. But at the same time, it is also crystal clear that we are capable of giving befitting replies to those who show aggression towards us.”“Soon after taking charge of the union ministry of defence, Rajnath Singh constituted a committee to review the progress of the work of writing the border history of the country and publishing periodicals and journals based on the military events. This military festival is providing an opportunity for the people in general, youth in particular, to gain knowledge about the war fought by our armed forces and to get inspired by their experience,” Purohit said.He added, “India’s commitment to abide by ‘Hinsa’ should not be misconstrued as response limitation. Any foreign aggression or misadventure will always create a more befitting response. Every time, even terrorism got good reply from Indian army. The defence of the nation means protecting the national unity and integrity and hence we are making every arrangement to further strengthen India’s defence,” he added.Former J&K governor NN Vohra, who is also chairman of Tribune Trust, said, “I had worked closely with CDS Bipin Rawat in J&K and had discussed situations when our country was facing military tensions. The military festival attracts a large number of serving and retired military officers. The festival is a tribute to the breavehearts who have protected our country.”General Officer Commanding-in-Chief, Western Command, Lt Gen Nav K Khanduri also sent his message for the inaugural session and expressed his views on the achievements of the Indian Army, not only during the 1971 war but for always protecting the country. Meanwhile, Lt Gen Depinder Singh (retd), who was the military assistant to then Army Chief, Field Marshal SHFJ Manekshaw, shared his first hand experience and some inside stories on the working of Indian Army and its commanders during the 1971 war. Brig Sukhjit Singh and SS Boparai also joined him to share their experience. Satinder Lambah also shared prelude stories regarding the war.Brig PK Ghosh, Maj Chanderkant Singh, Brig OS Goraya and Mr Sarabjit Singh also talked about the operations in eastern theatre and highlighted its role from April 1971 to November 1971, during the Indo-Pak war.The event also focused on the development of the nation, its geopolitics and emerging threats to the country, through land, air and sea routes.Also present during the session, Gen VP Singh, who served as the 19th Chief of Army Staff of the Indian Army, talked about the collapse of the Afghanistan government in August 2021 and how the country could have managed to save itself from the US intrusion.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/military-literature-festival-2021-india-capable-of-giving-befitting-reply-to-aggressive-countries-says-punjab-governor-101639254465948.html
12-12-2021||Chandigarh||Jammu and Kashmir logs 182 Covid cases, 1 death; Srinagar reports highest infections||Jammu and Kashmir reported 182 fresh Covid-19 infections and a death on Saturday, an official health bulletin said. Of the total cases, 149 cases and a fatality was reported in Kashmir valley and while the Jammu division saw 33 infections. Kashmir reported highest 66 cases in summer capital Srinagar followed by 26 cases in Kupwara and 20 in Baramulla district. As many as 15 districts saw single-digit or zero cases.Srinagar district has the highest number of active cases at 540 followed by Baramulla and Jammu districts with 226 and 183 active cases respectively.The number of patients who were cured in the UT was 204 with active positive cases reaching 1,595.The government’s daily health bulletin also said that 46,542 vaccine doses were administered taking overall doses administered in the UT to 1.725 crores.The overall number of people who have recovered reached 3,32,659 prompting the recovery rate to reach 98.20%. Since the pandemic started, the overall cases in J&K have reached 3,38,745 and the death toll has reached 4,491.The officials said that 57363 tests were conducted in the past 24 hours in the UT.The Jammu district has the highest number of 1,153 fatalities followed by Srinagar with 871 deaths.Covid trackerTotal cases: 3,38,745Total recovered patients: 3,32,659Total Deaths: 4,491Active cases: 1,595||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/jammu-and-kashmir-logs-182-covid-cases-1-death-srinagar-reports-highest-infections-101639253863310.html
12-12-2021||Chandigarh||Jammu: Farooq Abdullah for Indo-Pak dialogue; says there is no way out||Amid a spike in killings in Kashmir, former chief minister and Lok Sabha member Dr Farooq Abdullah on Saturday strongly advocated Indo-Pak dialogue and said that “there was no way out”. He also questioned the alleged duplicity of the BJP government, which, he said, “can talk to China, who is usurping Indian territory but not to Pakistan.” Responding to media queries following day-long convention of the NC’s minority cell, the veteran politician lost his temper and called a journalist “communal” when the latter sought his reaction over the killings of two policemen in Kashmir on Friday. Dr Farooq squarely blamed the Centre for the spike in killings in Kashmir. “Why are you asking me this? What do you want me to say? Do you think we are happy that they are killing people? It is a sad story…tell the government, who are saying everything is honky dory. Is it honky dory? Are people safe,” he said angrily. He continued, “When your police personnel are not safe, how is an ordinary man safe?” Two policemen were killed in north Kashmir’s Bandipora district on Friday after terrorists fired at them at the Gulshan Chowk area. The injured policemen were rushed to a nearby hospital where both of them succumbed to injuries. When asked whether talks can be held in such an atmosphere, he retorted, “You have to talk… there is no way out. You can talk to China… what do you say about that? They are occupying our territory… they have made their houses on our territory. Does the government of India allow discussion in the Parliament to understand what Chinese are doing?” When asked to react to Haryana CM ML Khattar, who has said that namaz will not be allowed in open spaces, Farooq said there was a religious tolerance, which has already been there. “And, the Constitution provides religious freedom. If he doesn’t allow it in an open field, then let him create places where they can pray because they have to pray. That’s why they use open place because there is no place”. Earlier, during the interaction with the internally displaced Kashmiri Pandits, Farooq Abdullah said the BJP has used them as a “vote bank” and has done nothing for them. He also apologised to the KP community for not having been able to protect them during the mass exodus in the 1990s. “During the NC government, we tried our best to ensure the return of the Pandit community but some elements sabotaged the whole process by carrying out massacres of Pandits,” he said. He also recalled how the then governor Jagmohan allegedly facilitated the exodus of Kashmiri Pandits with the promise to get them back in two months. He assured that the National Conference will continue to work towards the safe and honourable return of Pandits to the Valley. 
12-12-2021||Chandigarh||Lance Naik Vivek Kumar cremated with full military honours in Kangra||Para Commando Lance Naik Vivek Kumar, 29, was cremated with full state and military honours at his native Upper Thehru village in the Jaisinghpur subdivision of Kangra district on Saturday.Kumar was among the 13 people, including Chief of Defense Staff (CDS) Bipin Rawat and his wife Madhulika Singh Rawat, killed in a helicopter crash in Coonoor of Tamil Nadu on December 8.Earlier, in the morning chief minister Jai Ram Thakur received the mortal remains of Lance Naik Kumar at the Gaggal airport, KangraThe chief minister paid rich tributes to the martyred soldier by laying a wreath on his body. Later, while interacting with the media, he said that the state government was committed to the welfare of the family of the martyred soldier.He said the state government had provided ₹5 lakh as immediate relief to the bereaved family. He also announced an additional ₹5 lakh to the family from his discretionary fund.The chief minister said born in 1993, Vivek joined the Army in 2012 and was the sole breadwinner of the family.He also consoled Ramesh Chand, the father of the martyred soldier.Jaisinghpur MLA Ravinder Dhiman, former minister Sudhir Sharma, Lieutenant-General PN Ananthnarayan, Brigadier MK Sharma, Captain Mangesh Bhosle, deputy commissioner Dr Nipun Jindal and superintendent of police Khushal Sharma also paid tributes.Leader of Opposition Mukesh Agnihotri along with other Congress legislators and leaders attended Kumar’s last rites.Thousands of villagers attended the last journey of the soldier.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/lance-naik-vivek-kumar-cremated-with-full-military-honours-in-kangra-101639253744082.html
12-12-2021||Chandigarh||Himachal notifies committee to look into demands of New Pension Scheme employees||The Himachal Pradesh government on Saturday evening notified to constitute a committee to look into demands and grievances of employees covered under New Pension Scheme (NPS). The notification to this effect was issued by governor Rajendra Vishwanath Arlekar. The committee will consult all the stakeholders. Earlier in the day chief minister Jai Ram Thakur had announced to constitute a committee to explore possibilities to restore the Old Pension Scheme (OPS) for state government employees after a delegation of the New Pension Scheme Employees’ Association met him at the Vidhan Sabha complex regarding their demand. Talking to the media, the chief minister said the NPS was implemented in 2003, which had been accepted by the entire country, but now NPS employees are demanding to implement the old pension scheme again.The CM said the government would constitute a committee and study the matter after which a decision will be taken. He said that in 2003, the Congress government was in power and implement the NPS in the state.But, now when in opposition, the Congress is trying to take political advantage, he alleged.Earlier, members of the NPS Employees’ Association staged a protest at the Zoravar stadium near the Vidhan Sabha complex to press for their demands.In reply to a question on the first day of the winter session, the government had stated that there was no possibility of restoring the OPS in the state.The chief minister also hit at the Congress over discrepancies in the pay bands.He alleged that today Congress is supporting the police personnel for their demand but it was the Congress government that changed the recruitment and promotion rules of the police.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/himachal-notifies-committee-to-look-into-demands-of-new-pension-scheme-employees-101639253685004.html
12-12-2021||Chandigarh||Bill to appoint high court judge as Lokayukta tabled in Himachal assembly||: The Himachal Pradesh government on Saturday introduced the Himachal Pradesh Lokayukta (Amendment) Bill, 2021 in the assembly providing for the appointment of a high court judge as Lokayukta.Presenting the Bill in the House, the chief minister, Jai Ram Thakur, said the Himachal Pradesh Lokayukta Act, 2014, was enacted to appoint a Lokayukta for Himachal Pradesh to inquire into allegations of corruption against certain public functionaries and for matters connected therewith. He said as per Section 3 of the HP Lokayukta Act, 2014, it was necessary for a person to be a judge of the Supreme Court or a Chief Justice of a high court to be eligible for appointment to the post of Lokayukta. “Presently, it has become impossible to fill up the post of Lokayukta as per the existing provisions as only a few persons fulfil the eligibility criteria, ‘’ said the CM.He said to expand the scope of eligible persons, it has been proposed to make the judge of the high court eligible for consideration for appointment as Lokayukta. It will provide more options to fill up the said post, the chief minister said.Besides, the government also introduced three other Bills, including Sardar Patel University, Mandi (Establishment and Regulation) Bill, 202, for setting up a state university at Mandi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/bill-to-appoint-high-court-judge-as-lokayukta-tabled-in-himachal-assembly-101639253683735.html
12-12-2021||Chandigarh||Assembly: Centre nod to ₹2,095-cr tourism project for Himachal, says Jai Ram Thakur||Chief minister Jai Ram Thakur on Saturday informed the assembly that the Union finance ministry has approved ₹2,095 crore new tourism infrastructure development project to be funded by the Asian Development Bank (ADB).Making a suo motu statement in the House, the chief minister said the project was approved on December 6, 2021.He said the Niti Aayog, the Union ministry of tourism had also recommended the proposal for approval to the Union ministry of finance.The chief minister said that ADB will provide funding for this project in two tranches with a deadline of seven years for completion.“The first tranche of funding will be of about ₹900 crore under which beautification of cities, beautification and renovation of old heritage and historical buildings will be done.Apart from it, a convention centre and tourism facilities on both sides of the Atal Tunnel, Rohtang, will be developed.“The promotion of adventure sports activities will be done and houseboats and shikaras will be started in the lakes,” he said.The chief minister said that promotion of Himachali products, training and awareness under community development were some other key components of this project.The tourism department has appointed consultants who are preparing the DPR of the 1st tranche, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/assembly-centre-nod-to-2-095-cr-tourism-project-for-himachal-says-jai-ram-thakur-101639253623333.html
12-12-2021||Chandigarh||Question Hour: Dissatisfied over reply, Mandi MLA Anil Sharma corners his own government||Dissatisfied over the education minister’s reply to a question raised by him, Mandi MLA Anil Sharma cornered his own government during the Question Hour accusing it of misleading the House. Anil Sharma had sought the details of funds issued by the government for the development of senior secondary, high and middle schools in the Mandi assembly constituency. Replying to the question, education minister Govind Singh Thakur said a total of ₹4,83,27,662 had been given for the nine senior secondary schools for various construction/development works. However, Sharma alleged that the reply was misleading. He said the minister said that funds were released for nine schools while the list provided contains names of only eight schools. He alleged that the minister’s claim that work in four schools was complete was also wrong. As he tried to raise supplementary questions repeatedly, the speaker, Vipin Singh Parmar, told him that he may personally seek the details from the minister and there were other important questions listed. In a reply to the question raised by Jawalamukhi legislator Ramesh Dhawala, urban development minister Suresh Bhardwaj said the Shimla municipal corporation has purchased two street sweeping machines from Italy under the Shimla Smart City Project through the Himachal Pradesh public works department’s engineering board. Besides, ₹1.53 crore was spent on the purchase of the workshop toolkit, parts and other consumables. The minister said that the machines were deployed for cumulative 1,320 hours and ₹9.91 lakh were spent on their maintenance in a year. In reply to a question raised by Dharamshala legislator Vishal Nehria, agriculture minister Virender Kanwar said a total of 703 MoUs have been signed by the state government in which an investment of ₹96,720.88 crore is proposed. Replying to a question by Bhattiyat MLA Bikram Singh Jaryal, jal shakti minister, said the Draman-Sihunta- Chowari-Jot Chamba-Tissa-Killar road was given in-principle approval as a national highway by the Central government on September 14, 2016. The detailed project report of the project is being prepared and a draft alignment report has been sent to the Union ministry of surface transport and highways on August 25, 2018, and is presently under consideration for approval.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/question-hour-dissatisfied-over-reply-mandi-mla-anil-sharma-corners-his-own-government-101639253503555.html
12-12-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab logs 24 fresh Covid cases, 1 death||Punjab on Saturday reported 24 fresh Covid cases taking the infection tally to 603697, according to a medical bulletinWith one Covid-related fatality, the death toll reached 16618, it said. The state’s positivity rate remained 0.08%. The number of active cases in the state rose to 389, the bulletin said. Among fresh cases, maximum seven were reported in Jalandhar and four in Ludhiana. With 30 persons recovering from the infection, the number of cured persons has reached 586690, it said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-logs-24-fresh-covid-cases-1-death-101639251943481.html
12-12-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab farmers receive rousing welcome at Shambu barrier||Farmers received a rousing welcome on their entry into Punjab through the Shambu and other inter-state borders in Patiala district on Saturday.People from across the district gathered at the Shambu barrier and welcomed the farmers by showering flower petals on them during a ‘Fateh March’ carried after the central government withdrew the three contentious farm laws.Students and faculty members from Punjabi University, Patiala, also visited Rajpura and joined the march.Gursewak Singh, a student, said the farmers fought for not only their rights but for the rights of the generation to come.“The farmers proved that they are not only fill the country’s granaries but are also protectors of rights of people of Punjab,” he said.Even the Punjab government displayed huge “welcome” billboards on the roads. Manjit Singh, a farmer leader, said they were overwhelmed on receiving such a reception from the people of the state. “It was the fight of the people and we won for them,” he said.Also, huge traffic snarls were witnessed on the both side of the national highway.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-farmers-receive-rousing-welcome-at-shambu-barrier-101639251763990.html
12-12-2021||Chandigarh||Capt hails successful completion of farmers’ stir, welcomes them back||Former chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh on Saturday hailed the successful completion of the farmers’ agitation along the Delhi borders as they headed back home after 380 days of what he called “tapp, tyaag and tapasya”.“It was their discipline, dedication, determination and perseverance that saw the movement reaching its logical conclusion with the government of India eventually repealing these laws,” Amarinder said in a statement while congratulating and welcoming thousands of farmers back home to Punjab.The former CM hoped that the Punjab government would fulfil all its commitments made to the farmers in the Congress party’s manifesto before the elections.“I have already fulfilled most of these promises and the onus is now on the incumbent government to fulfil the pending commitments before the election code of conduct comes into force,” he said.Expressing complete satisfaction with the resolution of the issue, Amarinder recalled how a year ago he had personally got himself involved with the farmers’ movement and supported and encouraged them to take their protest to Delhi. “I am happy that our purpose has been served and the laws have been repealed to the satisfaction of our farming community”, he said.The former CM said he was already on course to fulfil all the pending demands of the farmers. But, he added, “unfortunately, first because of COVID and then due to my replacement some demands still remain unfulfilled which the new government must fulfil now”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/capt-hails-successful-completion-of-farmers-stir-welcomes-them-back-101639251703238.html
12-12-2021||Chandigarh||Farmers will start battle against Congress govt’s unfulfilled promises in Punjab: BKU leader Ugrahan||Bhartiya Kisan Union (Ekta-Ugrahan) president Joginder Singh Ugrahan on Saturday said that the farmers will start an agitation against the Congress government in Punjab which failed to deliver on its promises to provide employment, health services and debt waiver.Addressing a gathering, Ugrahan said, “We will hold massive protests in Punjab where dharnas are going on. Also, we condemn lathicharge on ETT-qualified teachers in Mansa and demand suspension of a deputy superintendent of police (DSP) who beat up youths. If the Channi government does not arrest this DSP, we will start a protest.”Earlier at the Khanauri border, hundreds of people welcomed Ugrahan and the farmers who returned from the Delhi borders after protesting against the Centre’s three agriculture laws on Saturday. “We fought a yearlong agitation and succeeded. But I want to say that we have just won one battle and second is still pending because farmers are under debt and youths are migrating abroad. We will fight against privatisation of public sector and the drug menace,” said Ugrahan.The leader of one of the largest farmer outfits, Ugrahan said that they will oppose if the government increased toll charges.“It is shameful that the government wants to punish people for holding protests. We may decide not to call off protests if the government increases toll free,” he added.
12-12-2021||Chandigarh||Panipat industrialists protest restrictions imposed by CPCB||Hundreds of industrialists and labourers held a protest march in Panipat on Saturday alleging that they are facing a tough time due to the restriction imposed by the central and state pollution control boards to check air pollution in the National Capital Region (NCR).The protesters alleged that due to the restrictions, most industries located in the NCR are facing closure and a loss of over ₹300 crore every month.The industrialists also took out a protest march from Zimkhana Club to the mini-secretariat. Protesting under the banners of different associations, they disrupted traffic movement on NH-44, Jind-Panipat, Panipat-Rohtak and Panipat-Haridwar highways and later ended the stir after submitting a memorandum at the Panipat deputy commissioner’s office.The industrialists were irked over the Central Pollution Control Board’s (CPCB) directions to run industries for just eight hours a day, five days a week. The CPCB has also banned use of diesel generator sets.Panipat Dyers’ Association president Bheem Rana said many units have been closed in the last several days leaving thousands of labourers jobless. He said the restrictions have also affected production and the industrialists are unable to meet the demand.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/panipat-industrialists-protest-restrictions-imposed-by-cpcb-101639251343309.html
12-12-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab govt hands over job letters to kin of 11 farmers who died during protests||Chandigarh/MorindaKin of 11 farmers who lost their lives during the stir against the Centre’s farm laws were given appointment letters for government jobs in Punjab on Saturday. Chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi and agriculture and farmers welfare minister Randeep Singh Nabha handed over the letters of appointment as clerk to the next of kin of the deceased farmers, according to an official release. Calling farmers the backbone of the state’s economic structure, the chief minister said: “The state government will always undertake every possible step to ensure welfare of the victim families.” The state government has already given jobs to the kin of the 157 deceased farmers. The state government had earlier announced ₹5 lakh as financial aid and a job for one member each of the deceased farmers’ families. Farmers had claimed death of more than 700 peasants from Punjab, Haryana and other states during the agitation against the now-repealed farm laws. Channi said farmers’ agitation launched by the Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM) has proved a big success and the people of Punjab, farmers and the government all have made contributions in this struggle. Farmers returning home after ending the morcha at Delhi borders were extended warm welcome in the state, he said. Addressing zila parishad, panchayat samiti members, sarpanches, panches and councillors of Chamkaur Sahib block at his residence at Dholan Majra village, the CM said no stone would be left unturned for the inclusive development of villages. He asked the panchayats to complete development works on a war footing.The CM said he had written to the Prime Minister to waive all debts of the farmers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-govt-hands-over-job-letters-to-kin-of-11-farmers-who-died-during-protests-101639251226235.html
12-12-2021||Lucknow||Stray cattle menace: UP govt steps up efforts, zila panchayats asked to launch cattle-catching drives||The Yogi Adityanath government has stepped up efforts to contain the menace of stray cattle that still exists in many districts. Besides, it has also taken fresh steps to ensure a comfortable stay of the cattle already in cow protection centres, people dealing with the issue said.After a series of meetings held at the level of the chief minister, the chief secretary and the agriculture production commissioner, officials have identified around a dozen districts where stray cattle are creating a lot of problems for farmers and the common man.“The government has decided to rope in zila panchayats (ZPs) to carry out a cattle-catching campaign in the rural areas of the districts identified as was done in the cities,” an animal husbandry department official said. “The same plan may be executed in other districts as well later depending upon the results in the districts identified for the purpose,” he added. The move comes after the government received feedback that abandoned cattle was still a big issue, especially in around a dozen districts, where they were destroying crops and attacking people taking care of crops in the fields. It was also found that there was no system of catching such cattle in villages and neither were there caretakers and watchmen in cow shelters.Expressing concern over the situation, chief secretary Rajendra Kumar Tiwari, during a meeting last week, directed officials to engage cattle catchers, if needed, and put the cattle safely into cow shelters in districts where the stray cattle problem was a serious issue.“In a follow-up meeting called by APC Alok Sinha it was decided that the responsibility to catch stray cattle should be given to ZPs in around a dozen worst-affected districts such as Gonda, Shrawasti, Lalitpur, Jhansi, Mahoba, Chitrakoot, Banda and Ghazipur,” the official said. The panchayati raj department, he said, might soon be asked to appoint caretakers and watchmen in cow shelters running in the rural areas. On Friday, Sinha issued detailed written instructions to the department of urban development and panchayati raj asking them to take appropriate steps for availability of adequate fodder in cow shelters and ensure proper arrangements for saving cattle there from the cold and fog. Currently, there are around 5,500 cow protection centres or cow shelters housing more than six lakh stray cattle in the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/stray-cattle-menace-up-govt-steps-up-efforts-zila-panchayats-asked-to-launch-cattle-catching-drives-101639251224716.html
12-12-2021||Chandigarh||Ward attendants’ hiring: BFUHS uses decimal marking by counting day-wise experience||In an attempt to make the recruitment process accurate, the Baba Farid University of Health Sciences (BFUHS), Faridkot, has used seven-decimal marking by taking into account day-wise work experience of applicants for the recruitment of 800 posts of ward attendant. The BFUHS on Saturday released a final merit list of around 1,600 applicants from whom the candidates will be recruited for the 800 posts after scrutiny of documents for various categories. Vice-chancellor Dr Raj Bahadur said, “We have put the final merit list of candidates for the recruitment of ward attendant posts. Earlier, there was one mark for each-year experience up to 10 marks. This time, we have counted day-wise experience by calculating marks up to seven decimals.” These marks were added to the total marks scored in the written test.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ward-attendants-hiring-bfuhs-uses-decimal-marking-by-counting-day-wise-experience-101639251223111.html
12-12-2021||Chandigarh||Will appoint one deputy CM from BSP if voted to power in Punjab: Sukhbir Badal||Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) president Sukhbir Singh Badal on Saturday said that if voted to power in the upcoming assembly elections they will appoint one deputy chief minister from their alliance partner Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP). Addressing rallies in support of party candidates Sukhwinder Kumar Sukhi at Banga and Jagir Kaur in Bholath, Sukhbir said the deputy CM’s post will be befitting reward for the BSP’s decades of hard work in building its cadre despite all odds in the state. The SAD-BSP alliance will now have two deputy CMs — one a scheduled caste and another from the Hindu community — if voted to power. Sukhbir also the SAD-BSP government will order an inquiry into the bribery charges against home minister Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa by his cabinet colleague Rana Gurjit Singh.“How can we expect this government to safeguard the interests of the state as when the home minister has started taking money for posting officers like senior superintendents of police (SSPs), SPs and DSPs. We will not only conduct an inquiry into this racket but will also order a probe into other corrupt deeds of the Congress government, including the manner in which their party leaders plundered the resources of the state in league with the sand and liquor mafia,” he said. He also condemned the “brutality inflicted on unemployed teachers” on Friday by a DSP in the CM’s security team at Mansa. “The manner in which the unemployed teachers were thrashed proves that the CM did not want to address their concerns at all,” Sukhbir said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/will-appoint-one-deputy-cm-from-bsp-if-voted-to-power-in-punjab-sukhbir-badal-101639251043271.html
12-12-2021||Chandigarh||Two Punjab farmers returning from Tikri dies in Hisar road mishap||Two persons were killed and one received injuries after their tractor-trolley was hit by a truck near Hisar’s Dhandoor village on Saturday evening, police said.The deceased have been identified as Sukhdev Singh, 40, and Ajaypreet Singh, 32, of Assa Buttar village in Punjab’s Muktsar. While Raghbir Singh, of their village, got injured and is undergoing treatment at a Hisar hospital.The incident took place when the farmers were returning from the protest site at Tikri border after the Samyukt Kisan Morcha suspended their agitation.Hisar police inspector Kaptan said five farmers were on the tractor-trailer when the incident took place.“Two farmers were killed while another one was seriously injured when the tractor-trailer they were riding was hit from behind by a truck,” he added.Police have booked the unknown driver of the truck for rash driving and causing death due to negligence.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/two-punjab-farmers-returning-from-tikri-dies-in-hisar-road-mishap-101639250983358.html
12-12-2021||Lucknow||Lucknow: Victory torch gets grand welcome at LU, 1971 war veterans recount memories||Lucknow To commemorate the Swarnim Vijay Varsh, the Swarnim Vijay Mashaal reached Lucknow University (LU) here on Saturday at 10: 30 am as part of its programme, organised by 64 UP Battalion NCC Lucknow along with LU and 1/11 Gorkha Rifles Battalion of 71 Infantry Brigade. The guard of honour was given to the victory torch on its arrival by the cadets of 64 UP Bn NCC Lucknow and a two minutes silence was observed to pay homage in honour of War Heroes. Tributes were paid by Brig (retd) AK Sinha, Brig SD Vaid of HQ CC, Col Gaurav Karki CO 64 UP Bn Lucknow and vice chancellor of Lucknow University Prof AK Rai. Two cadets of 64 UP Bn NCC briefed about the 1971 war, Swarnim Vijay Varsh and the victory torch. Brig AK Sinha (retd) of AMC, a veteran of 1971 War, was the guest of honour, who recounted his memories of the ‘Casualties Evacuation’ operations in the night of December 7 and 8, 1971, in an operation in Western Sector while serving as an RMO of 14 Rajput Regiment. He was accompanied by his wife Col (Dr) Nirmal Sinha (retd). Prof Alok Kumar Rai, vice chancellor of Lucknow University ,was chief guest. He conveyed his appreciation and saluted soldiers for their contribution to the country. He also appreciated the discipline of all NCC cadets of the university and expressed his deep desire that all students must take up NCC. Cultural events, including recitation of poem, solo and group songs by cadets of 64 UP bn NCC and students of Amiruddaula Islamia College, were organised. The event culminated with recital of Rashtriya Gaan by all attendees along with Pipe Band of 1/11 GR Bn. Guard of honour was given by the cadets of 64 UP Bn NCC Lucknow. 1/11 GR had set up weapons display stalls while ARO Lucknow set up their stall for providing info about joining the Army. 3 UP Naval unit Lucknow also established their counter with ship models. The cadets of all arms of NCC like Army, Navy and Air Force were present in large number along with Lucknow University students. The victory flame was seen off by all the visitors with full military honours.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/lucknow-victory-torch-gets-grand-welcome-at-lu-1971-war-veterans-recount-memories-101639250923733.html
12-12-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab govt moves Supreme Court against Centre’s BSF jurisdiction order||The Punjab government has filed a petition in the Supreme Court against the Centre’s decision to extend the jurisdiction of the Border Security Force (BSF) up to 50km from the international border in the state besides West Bengal and Assam. The Punjab government recently filed the petition that was listed for Friday before the SC registrar who issued a notice through the attorney general and directed the Union government to appear in the court within 28 days of receiving the orders.In October this year, the Narendra Modi-led central government had issued a notification extending the BSF jurisdiction from 15km to 50km from the international border.The SC registrar’s notice read, “You are summoned to appear in the court to answer the plaintiff’s claim and produce your witness and documents on the basis of which you intend to support your case.” The move to extend the BSF’s territorial jurisdiction had evoked a strong reaction from political parties in Punjab following which chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi in a all-party meeting on October 25 had decided to challenge the order, citing attack on the country’s “federal structure”. The state’s political parties had termed the decision “an ill-conceived move” of the BJP-led government at the Centre in a bid to “indirectly rule the jurisdiction area”. On November 11, the Punjab Vidhan Sabha had passed a resolution against the move, castigating the Centre for curtailing powers of the Punjab Police.However, the BSF in a press conference on November 13 had said that the paramilitary force was only to “complement, assist and strengthen” the police and other law-enforcement agencies.Appreciating the state government’ move, Punjab Congress president Navjot Singh Sidhu on Saturday tweeted, “I congratulate Punjab and it’s legal team to be the 1st to approach the Hon’ble Supreme Court by filing an original suit challenging the notification extending the BSF jurisdiction. The fight to retain the principles embodied in the constitution i.e. to retain the federal structure and autonomy of the states has begun … Notice issued to the centre to respond (sic).”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-moves-sc-against-centre-s-bsf-jurisdiction-order-101639250743250.html
12-12-2021||Lucknow||Conduct audit of all co-op housing societies: HC to UP govt||Taking serious note of rampant corruption in housing societies and harassment of plot owners, the Lucknow bench of the Allahabad high court has directed the state government to ensure audit of accounts of all cooperative housing societies in the state on a yearly basis, without fail.A single judge bench of justice Pankaj Bhatia on November 8 said: “The State shall ensure the audit of the accounts of all the cooperative housing societies of the state of UP as required under Section 64 on yearly basis without fail.“The State shall separately get the audit of the lands owned by the co-operative societies to decipher whether any lands/ properties owned by the society have been misappropriated.“The yearly Audit reports as directed above with regard to all the cooperative housing societies shall be furnished in accordance with law to an apex body at state level. “Wherever any discrepancies with regard to unauthorised sales/unauthorised withdrawal from the account of the societies are noticed, an FIR in question shall be lodged and steps shall be taken for recovery of the loss caused to the Co-operative Housing Societies,” added the court.“If there is any need, the investigating agency/state/authorised person shall be free to take the help of Enforcement Directorate for recovering the ‘proceeds of crime’ if found to have been transferred or misappropriated either by any of its office bearers/members of the co-operative housing society throughout the state of UP,” the court said.The court passed the order on a petition seeking action against housing society Rishi Vasishth Sahkari Awas Samiti Limited. It fixed February 28, 2022 as the next date of hearing.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/conduct-audit-of-all-co-op-housing-societies-hc-to-up-govt-101639250683098.html
12-12-2021||Other||Lucknow: Mega drive from Monday to create awareness about crop insurance benefits||Lucknow: The state government would launch a mega campaign from Monday to create awareness among farmers about crop insurance schemes and their benefits with a view to secure farmers’ interests by increasing the insurance coverage in the state, an agriculture department official said. As per the plan chalked out following the Central government’s directions in this regard, the agriculture department will hold a state-level workshop involving stakeholders like state government, banks, insurance companies, common service centres and village level functionaries here in the state capital on Monday. “We will discuss difficulties that are being faced in increasing the crop insurance coverage and find out solution to the same after open discussion on the issues in the workshop so that more farmers could benefit,” additional director agriculture, Rajesh Gupta said. He said agriculture director Vivek Kumar Singh had written a letter to the DMs and commissioners concerned requesting them to take necessary steps for the success of scheduled state-level and regional workshops. Cluster-level/regional workshops are proposed to be held in Saharanpur, Meerut, Aligarh, Agra, Bareilly, Moradabad, Kanpur, Prayagraj, Varanasi, Mirzapur, Azamgarh, Gorakhpur, Basti, Lucknow, Faizabad, Devipatan, Jhansi and Chitrakoot divisions between December 15 and 22. An amount up to ₹2 lakh can be spent on holding the state-level workshop and upto ₹50,000 each on regional workshops. The centre, through a letter dated November 22, asked states to organise one or more regional level/cluster level physical workshops in cooperation with the implementing insurance companies with all the stakeholders for Rabi 21-22 season. In UP, four insurance schemes are functioning to implement the Pradhan Mantri Fasal Bima Yojana (PMFBY) and the Restructured Weather Based Crop Insurance Scheme (RWBCIS).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/lucknow-mega-drive-from-monday-to-create-awareness-about-crop-insurance-benefits-101639249963170.html
12-12-2021||Chandigarh||Gita does not belong to any particular religion: LS speaker Om Birla||Lok Sabha speaker Om Birla said on Saturday that the the Hindu scripture, the Bhagavad Gita, does not belong to any particular language, region or religion but to all of humanity.The speaker said the historical land of Kurukshetra is guiding the whole world in the way of living. “Mahatma Gandhi believed the Bhagavad Gita gives inspiration in the same way as a mother takes care of her child,” the speaker said in his address at the Yuva Chetna Sammelan in Kurukshetra.He said those involved in the freedom movement had taken inspiration from the Gita to fight for what’s right.In his address as the chief guest on the valedictory function of the 6th three-day International Gita Seminar organised by the Kurukshetra University, the speaker said the foundation of Indian democracy was laid thousands of years ago by sages and thinkers with focus on peace, spiritually and equality.“Being the largest and most powerful democracy in the world, India has shown the path of spirituality, inner peace and selfless Karma to the world,” he said.He appreciated the efforts of the Kurukshetra University in organising the seminar which will “motivate younger generations to take inspiration from the Gita and imbibe its values in their lives”.Meanwhile, Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar said the Gita Mahotsav has become an international event and is playing an important role in disseminating the universal message of “Karma, Bhakti, Gyan and Moksha” to the world.He said the state government is committed for overall development of all religious places in Kurukshetra and has included 30 more ‘Teerth Sthalas’ in the list of the already existing 130 in the 48 kos ‘parikrama’ of Mahabharata circuit in five districts of Haryana.Gita shlokas’ chanting in schools: KhattarKhattar said the state government has decided to start chanting of Gita shlokas in schools from the next academic session. The shlokas will be taught to students of Class 5 and 6 as Gita is the “essence of life”.He said due to the efforts of Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Gita Mahotsav is now being celebrated on an international level.Lakhs of people are visiting Kurukshetra due to this event and the district has got a new identity on the map of global religious tourism.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/gita-does-not-belong-to-any-particular-religion-ls-speaker-om-birla-101639249723918.html
12-12-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab govt orders magisterial inquiry into Canecharge on teachers in Mansa||A day after strong criticism of canecharge by Punjab Police on unemployed schoolteachers during Congress rally in Mansa, the state home department on Saturday ordered a magisterial inquiry into the incident.According to the directions of home secretary Anurah Verma, Sangrur additional deputy commissioner (ADC) Anmol Singh Dhaliwal will investigate the matter. Dhaliwal has been asked to submit the findings within a week.Earlier in the day Mansa MLA Nazar Singh Manshahia urged chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi to initiate action against policemen responsible for beating up unemployed protesters on Friday. Manshahia took to Facebook to express his anguish after videos were shared on social media, showing police personnel in plainclothes leading cops in beating trained teachers at the Congress rally in Mansa. The police personnel in question is stated to be a deputy superintendent of police (DSP) in the CM’s security wing. During the rally, a group of unemployed teachers raised slogans, demanding government jobs. Manshahia, who was also present at the rally, said that the videos were disturbing. “It is an inhuman way adopted by the police officer, who deserves punitive action as he was ruthless. It was painful to watch videos where he was seen attacking protesters in a bus when they were being taken out of the venue by the district police,” he said. During the rally, a group of teachers and a section of Youth Congress activists had jeered in the presence of the CM. While the police personnel did not act against those who hooted continuously against Punjabi singer Sidhu Moosewala, who joined the Congress recently, but the protesting teachers faced the heat. After the protests, Channi said his government has no sympathy for those create ruckus. The CM suspended his address for 20 minutes. Several political leaders, including state transport minister Amrinder Singh Raja Warring, AICC secretary Harshwardhan Sapkal and Moosewala, were present on the dais but no one responded to the police action on the unemployed teachers. Manshahia justified the CM’s statement on not tolerating protests at public programmes. “Channi is in the CM office for less than three months and he has undertaken several people-oriented steps. He has assured sympathetic redressal of long-pending issues of government employees and unemployed teachers. But it is unfair to create ruckus and the CM should be given time to resolve matters,” said the MLA, who had switched to the Congress after quitting the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) in April 2019.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-govt-orders-magisterial-inquiry-into-canecharge-on-teachers-in-mansa-101639249663362.html
12-12-2021||Other||‘Ganna’ is ours and Jinnah is theirs, says Nadda in Meerut||MEERUT Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) national president JP Nadda said on Saturday that the BJP was concerned for the development of sugarcane farmers but others were just interested in promoting Jinnah. Addressing the booth-level party workers here, Nadda said that the Yogi Adityanath-led state government made a record payment to sugarcane farmers. “Ganna is ours and Jinnah is theirs. We will win by contesting on sugarcane and expose their Jinnah mentality,” he said referring to the Assembly elections early next year. Attacking the Opposition, he claimed that 20 sugar mills were closed during the BSP regime while 11 stopped operations under the previous Samajwadi Party government. The BJP president said the Swaminathan Commission had recommended that farmers should get one-and-a-half times the production cost but previous Congress government did not do it. “Congress did not give adequate benefits to farmers as per recommendations of the Swaminathan Commission, but our Prime Minister Narendra Modi gave one and half times more of the expenditure to farmers as MSP (Minimum Support Price),” he said. Reminding people about old Samajwadi Party, he said, “This is not new Samajwadi Party, this is the same old SP, keep this in mind. Under them, there were riots everywhere as people witnessed 700 riots during their rules in which 112 persons were killed.” Nadda also raised the issue of Hindu exodus and said, “The SP leaders want to show their new faces by veiling their old ones.” He praised PM Modi for saving both--- the lives of people and the country’s economy during the crisis of Corona pandemic while countries like USA were unable to decide what to do? He also repealed Article 370 and brought Bill against Triple Talaq to give justice to Muslim women. Party’s state president Swatantra Deo Singh and deputy chief minister Dinesh Sharma also targeted the Opposition and claimed BJP would win over 300 seats in the Assembly elections and form government again in the state. Praising booth-level workers, Nadda said that it was responsibility of booth presidents to bring the Yogi government again in the state. “Booths play vital role in ensuring victory in elections. Therefore, it is now responsibility of booth presidents to bring the Yogi government again in the state.” Inputs from agencies||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ganna-is-ours-and-jinnah-is-theirs-says-nadda-in-meerut-101639249544931.html
12-12-2021||Chandigarh||Farmers’ ‘fateh yatra’ convoy welcomed with cheers, flower showers, sweets||The farmers camping at Delhi’s borders for over a year headed back to their respective villages in Haryana, Punjab and other states on Saturday in large convoys of tractors and trucks from the Singhu, Ghazipur and Tikri borders.They were welcomed by the cheering crowds of locals, especially women and children, gathered at different locations with flower showers, sweets, tea and snacks at multiple locations on the NH-44.Villagers and local farmers prepared halwa, kheer, other sweets, tea, lassi and other eatables for the farmers coming back from Delhi borders.Earlier in the morning, farmers at Singhu border sang bhajans and performed ardas before vacating the site while those at the Tikri border danced to celebrate the victory of their year-long agitation against the Centre’s three farm laws. Senior Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM) leader Joginder Singh Ugrahan joined the protesters and danced on drum beats.Before leaving the borders, the farmers apologised to local shopkeepers, vendors and others for causing inconvenience to them as businesses was affected due to the protest and thanked them for their support.Anmol Singh, of Bathinda, said, “We thanked them for providing electricity in the early days in November last year when we had started to protest at Tikri border. We know that many people struggled due to our protest but it was necessary to save the lands of farmers.”Karnal farmers made arrangements of langar and shelter for hundreds of farmers at Bastara toll plaza. A blood donation camp was also organised at the toll plaza in respect of farmers who died during this agitation.“I saw tears in the eyes of many farmers when we were uprooting our tents at Singhu border. This one year has given a new experience of life and new friends to us,” said farmer Karnail Singh, of Yamunanagar.“We will continue langar and shelter services round-the-clock until all farmers safely return home,” said the sewadar of a local gurdwara in Karnal.Meanwhile, traffic slowed down on the Kundli-Manesar-Palwal (KMP), Delhi-Jind, Delhi- Hisar and other highways following the rush of hundreds of tractor-trailers joining the farmers’ ‘fateh yatra’ cavalcade from Delhi since morning.Balbir Singh, a farmer from Hisar’s Sisai, said they brought back soil and bricks from Tikri to build memorials in the name of farmers who sacrificed their lives during the stir.Balkaur Singh, a farmer from Punjab’s Patiala, said doctors took good care of them in all weathers.“Every day, we also got get foot massages with the help of machines. After this agitation, we can say that those seated at high places in Delhi can be defeated with spirit and dedication. We are getting phone calls from our co-villagers and they are awaiting our return,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/farmers-fateh-yatra-convoy-welcomed-with-cheers-flower-showers-sweets-101639249311041.html
12-12-2021||Pune||Paper leak: Police custody of Latur health chief admin, 4 others extended||PUNE: The stay in police custody of the five people arrested on December 7 by Pune police cyber-crime officials in health department paper leak case was increased by a court in Pune on Saturday. The five people whose custody was increased include Prashant Shankarrao Bundgire, 50, chief administration officer of Latur public health department; Udhav Nagargoje, 36, a teacher at Beed zilla parishad; Dr Sandeep Jogdand, 36, medical officer at Beed mental hospital; Shyam Mhaske, 38, helper at Sri hospital in Neknur, Beed; and Rajendra Pandurang Sanap, 51, a clerk at rural government hospital in Bhoom, Osmanabad. “There is progress in the investigation and further custody was sought to establish link and the chain among those arrested. The court has granted eight more days of custody till December 18,” said public prosecutor Vijaysinh Jadhav. “These people were arrested on December 7 and remanded to police custody till December 11. They were produced in court and for further investigation, when we asked for custody, both sides argued. However, the judge decided to agree on extension of the custody,” read a statement by the police. With two arrests made on Friday, the total number of arrests in the case has gone up to 14. The case was registered in the matter under Sections 406, 410, 409, 120(b), and 34 of Indian Penal Code along with Sections 3, 5, 6, and 8 of Maharashtra Prevention of Malpractices at University, Board and other specified Examinations Act, 1990 amendment at Cyber police station of Pune.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/paper-leak-police-custody-of-latur-health-chief-admin-4-others-extended-101639248823037.html
12-12-2021||Gurugram||Guurgram: Pvt firm’s exec takes lift at Iffco Chowk, robbed of ₹90k||A 28-year-old executive of a private company was allegedly robbed of ₹90,000 and his belongings at gunpoint by three persons who offered him a lift in a car near Iffco Chowk on Friday night. He was later thrown out of the car at an isolated stretch near Badshahpur, police said. According to police, Ajay Bisht, a resident of Faridabad who works at an automobile company in Gurugram, was waiting for local transport at Iffco Chowk when a Brezza car stopped and offered him a lift. Police said the suspects snatched his mobile phone and wallet containing ₹5,000 and debit cards, and forced him to transfer ₹85,000 from his bank account to their accounts. Preet Pal Sangwan, assistant commissioner of police (crime), said, “The suspects drove the car towards Badshahpur and kept threatening the victim and pushed him out of car after crossing Vatika Chowk around 9pm. Later, he took help of a commuter and informed his family members regarding the incident,” he said.Bisht said that three men were already sitting in the car. “They offered me a lift to Faridabad to which I agreed. Within minutes one of them took me at gunpoint and asked to hand over my belongings. Then they forced me to share my ATM card and digital payment passwords and transferred ₹85,000 into their accounts,” he said. The victim said that after being left at an isolated place he called police control room and narrated his ordeal following which a police team reached the spot and took him to DLF Phase 2 police station where a case was registered under sections 34 (common intention), 392 (robbery) and 379 (snatching) of Indian Penal Code. Sangwan said they are scanning the CCTV footage of three places to get the registration number of the vehicle used in the crime. Police said mostly lift-and-loot cases are reported from areas such as Iffco Chowk, Shankar Chowk, Hero Honda Chowk and Rajiv Chowk.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/guurgram-pvt-firm-s-exec-takes-lift-at-iffco-chowk-robbed-of-90k-101639248643467.html
12-12-2021||Pune||Elderly couple on two-wheeler killed after hit by SUV in Chikhali||PUNE: An elderly couple, including a clerk at Savitribai Phule Pune University (SPPU) and her husband, riding a two-wheeler were killed in collusion with an SUV in Chikhali area of Pimpri-Chinchwad on Friday afternoon. The deceased were identified as Balu Baburao Ugave, 63, and Meera Balu Ugave, 52, both residents of Tukaramnagar in Bhosari area of Pimpri-Chinchwad. The arrested driver of the SUV was identified as Netaji Bhise, also a resident of Bhosari. The couple was heading to a house-warming ceremony of their friend around 3:30-4pm on Friday when the collision happened. The accused was a driver on the car which belonged to someone else. “He was arrested and remanded to judicial custody by the court,” said sub-inspector (PSI) BN Deshmukh of Chikhali police station who is investigating the case. The couple was riding along the Chikhali–Dehu road stretch in Shelar vasti in Chikhali and heading towards Dehu area when the accident happened. The SUV rammed the two-wheeler. “There was a speed-breaker on the road and the two-wheeler rider suddenly applied breaks. The car was speeding and could not apply breaks in time to stop the collision. The two fell on impact of the car hitting their vehicle. They were rushed to Yashwantrao Chavan Memorial hospital and the doctors tried to save them but they were declared dead after some time,” said PSI Deshmukh. A complaint was lodged by Manoj Ugave, 32, who is also a driver by profession, according to the police. A case under Sections 279 and 304(a) of Indian Penal Code along with Sections 184, 134/177 of Motor Vehicle Act was registered against the driver at Chikhali police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/elderly-couple-on-two-wheeler-killed-after-hit-by-suv-in-chikhali-101639248583012.html
12-12-2021||Pune||Out-of-work software engineer from Pune forges air ticket, visa to ‘impress’ parents||PUNE: A 30-year-old software engineer from Pune was arrested for forging visa and ticket to Vancouver, Canada on Thursday night. He was arrested by the Pune police from the Pune international airport after a team of Central Industrial Security Force (CISF) officials caught him at the airport. The accused, an Aundh resident, and his parents have been remanded to police custody for two days by a local court. He has studied and worked in America, according to the police. “The accused said that he was doing this to put up a show for his parents to make them believe that he had found a job in Canada after being jobless since 2019. He is a software engineer who was working in the USA until 2019 when he lost his job. He had been living with his parents since then,” said assistant inspector Milind Pathak of airport police station who is investigating the case. A complaint against the main accused, currently in police custody, was lodged by Arvind Singh (41) an official of CISF deployed at the Pune international airport. According to the complainant, the accused entered the airport by showing a forged ticket from Pune to Delhi and Delhi to Vancouver, Canada by Air India and a forged visa on his passport while his parents watched him. However, once his parents left, he tried to come out of the airport through the departure gates which raised the CISF officials’ suspicion. Upon checking his PNR, they found him to have forged the ticket as the PNR on his ticket did not exist in the system. “He said that after leaving the airport, he would live with his friends in the city to avoid raising his parents; suspicion. We are investigating how he managed to forge the visa and ticket,” said API Pathak. A case under Sections 420 (cheating), 465 (forgery), 468, 471 (using forged documents as genuine) of the Indian Penal Code was registered at Vimantal police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/outofwork-software-engineer-from-pune-forges-air-ticket-visa-to-impress-parents-101639248404289.html
12-12-2021||Delhi||Delhi to submit its climate action plan by January 2022||The Capital will be ready with its 10-year action plan to combat the climate crisis by January next year, senior officials of the state environment department said on Saturday. A senior environment department official said that the government has started workshops and department-level consultations to collect the requisite data and assess Delhi’s geographic and climate profile. The State Action Plan for Climate Change (SAPCC) will be submitted to the Union ministry of environment, forest and climate change. “Over the next two months, we will conduct detailed meetings with all stakeholders in Delhi and prepare a detailed assessment of the city’s climate profile. This will essentially be a vulnerability assessment, which will give details on what constitutes Delhi’s climate,” said the official. In 2009, the Centre prepared a National Action Plan on Climate Change (NAPCC) and asked all states to prepare their own plans. However, Delhi submitted its plan to combat the crisis in 2019, becoming the last state to do so. The delay meant that the action plan could not be implemented, since it was valid only till 2020. States have now been asked to come up with a new climate action plan that will suggest strategies to adapt to and mitigate the climate crisis over the next decade. A senior Delhi Pollution Control Committee (DPCC) official aware of the matter said that the plan will focus on six aspects — water resources, energy and power, transport, forest and biodiversity, urban planning, health and agriculture. Consultations will be held with nearly 40 agencies to draft the plan. “Each aspect of the city’s climate is being studied and these consultations will help us set small and medium-term deadlines with all agencies that will have to take act in order to develop Delhi as a sustainable city for the next 10 years,” the official said. Meteorologists and environmentalists said the larger impact of the climate crisis is visible globally and countries will have to act in order to mitigate its effects in the long run. Delhi’s climate has also witnessed extreme trends over the past decade. India Meteorological Department (IMD) scientists said that Delhi’s monsoon rains have started becoming more intense and spread over a shorter duration. HT has also earlier reported that over the past year, Delhi has broken at least one weather record every month. One of the reasons for this trend is the larger role of the climate crisis, said experts. Mahesh Palawat, vice-president (meteorology and climate change), Skymet Weather Services said, “States will have to be prepared for the climate crisis. In Delhi and neighbouring satellite towns, we have been seeing extreme weather conditions and short and intense spells of rain. Urban infrastructure will have to now be redesigned to accommodate the impacts of climate change.” 
12-12-2021||Other||Gurugram: ₹88 lakh jewellery stolen from woman’s bag at Sohna resort||A 28-year-old Delhi resident who stayed in a resort in Sohna from December 8-9 has alleged that jewellery and other valuables worth around ₹88 lakh were stolen from her bag while she was checking out of the resort. The victim found these valuables missing from the bag when she reached home, said police.According to police, Seema Khurana, a resident of Punjabi Bagh in Delhi, is suspecting the role of security guards and a cleaner who were present at the spot at the time of checking out. A case under Section 380 (theft) of Indian Penal Code was registered at Sohna police station against unidentified persons on Friday, said police. Khurana said that she came to Sohna to attend a wedding function on December 8 in a five-star hotel, and booked a room in a resort in Damdama. “After attending the wedding function, I returned to the resort and packed jewellery in my bag and checked out around 3pm. While unpacking at Delhi home, I was shocked to find that the jewellery and other valuables were missing. I remember that while leaving the resort there were three persons -- two security guards and a cleaner -- in the reception area. There was no one else who could have taken my valuables out of the bag,” she said. According to Khurana, the bag had one Rolex watch worth ₹15 lakh, one diamond ring worth ₹35 lakh, a pair of diamond bangles worth ₹35 lakh, and another ring of ₹3 lakh. “I can provide the bills for these items if required,” she said. Umesh Kumar, station house officer of Sohna police station, said that they are questioning the staff of the resort. “We are scanning the CCTV footage of the resort. The suspects will be arrested soon,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/gurugram-88-lakh-jewellery-stolen-from-woman-s-bag-at-sohna-resort-101639248283110.html
12-12-2021||Pune||Gambling den raided in Kondhwa bungalow, seizure worth ₹58.3 lakh||PUNE: The Pune police crime branch officials raided a bungalow in NIBM Kondhwa area of Pune on Friday and busted a gambling den which resulted in seizure worth ₹58.3 lakh. The arrested was identified as Jiten Jagdeep Singh (42) of Sainik nagar Cloud Nine society, according to a statement issued by the police. The senior officials of Pune police had received information about a poker and gambling den operating in the bungalow that was raided. A team, including female inspector, male inspector and at least 3–4 other officials of the crime branch went to the spot in civil dress to confirm the information before conducting the raid. Among the seized valuables, two types of foreign currency collectively worth ₹8,04,407 as well as Indian currency worth ₹47,76,500 was found in the house. Among the foreign currency, Australian dollars 5,500 and American dollars 6,700 were found. Along with money, foreign liquor bottles worth ₹1,42,500 along with 10 gambling chips, 13 poker tables, 30 cats of cards, and one roulette table were seized. The total seizure was found to be worth ₹58,30,275, according to officials of social security cell of the Pune police crime branch who conducted the raid. Anti-narcotics cell-one police Inspector Vinayak Gaikwad and his team were also part of the raid along with inspector Shilpa Chavan of the social security cell. A case under Maharashtra Prohibition Act was registered at Kondhwa police station against the owner.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/gambling-den-raided-in-kondhwa-bungalow-seizure-worth-rs-58-3-lakh-101639248102980.html
12-12-2021||Other||Multi-crore theft: ‘Two Gurugram cops may face action for shoddy probe’||Two inspectors of Gurugram police are likely to face action for the shoddy probe into a multi-crore theft case that took place in a residential society in Sector 84 in August this year, said a senior officer of the Haryana Police involved in the investigation of the case on Saturday. The two inspectors -- one deployed as a station house officer and the other in-charge of crime investigation agency -- are under scanner for not taking the case seriously due to which it was registered late, said the officer, seeking anonymity. On Friday, Dheeraj Setia, former DCP of Gurugram police, was suspended by the Haryana government after being asked to join investigation on the basis of a confessional statement made by an accused in the multi-crore theft case. “The role of Gurugram police officials, who initially investigated the case, is now being questioned. The way investigation was carried out by the Gurugram police has raised many questions,” said another senior officer of the Haryana Police associated with the case. The theft was committed at the maintenance office of the residential society in Sector 82 on August 4. On August 20, when an employee of the company looking after the maintenance went to collect the cash to deposit it in the bank, he realised that it was missing. After scanning the CCTV footage, the company discovered that the money had been stolen. On November 11, the special task force (STF) of the Haryana Police arrested two Gurugram doctors -- Dr Sachinder Jain Nawal and Dr Gurpartap Singh -- for their alleged involvement in the multi-crore heist. The Gurugram police had not mentioned the amount of theft in the FIR but said it was ₹4 crore. However, the STF later revealed that it was over ₹25 crore theft and recovered nearly ₹6 crore from the two suspects. According to STF, the two doctors were connected to gangster Vikas Langarpuria who had planned the theft. Assistant sub-inspector (ASI) Vikas Gulia of the Delhi Police’s special cell was also arrested in connection with the theft on October 9 for allegedly helping the gangster. According to the senior officials, they have arrested 11 people so far, including the two doctors and close aides of the gangster, in the case. STF deputy inspector general Satheesh Balan said on Saturday that they had summoned DCP Setia and jail superintendent Shamsher Dahiya who is posted in Panchkula. “Dahiya joined the investigation whereas Setia still remains incommunicado,” he said. According to the officials, Dahiya was helping his nephew Neetu Dahiya alias Sunariya, a Delhi-based financer, and money was given to him for investment by gangster Langarpuria. Sunariya has been arrested in the case.Balan said that the main players in the case are Dr Nawal and gangster Langarpuria who planned the entire heist and tried to make fortune out of it. “DCP Setia received a small amount,” he said. Balan said they had sought permission to conduct a polygraph test upon Dr Singh and Dr Nawal. “Dr Singh has given his consent voluntarily and without any coercion and pressure to undergo the polygraph test whereas Dr Nawal denied to undergo the test in the first week of December,” he said. While hearing the case, a local court on December 2 had observed that the statement recorded by suspect Dr Nawal makes it clear that “he has given illegal gratification to DCP Setia for hushing up the matter”. According to Balan, in his disclosure statement, Dr Nawal has stated that in July 2021, his friend Dr Singh and an employee of the developer came to his hospital. “They disclosed that around ₹30-40 crore has been kept in a company’s flat and if they succeeded in stealing the said amount, then they would have a stroke of fortune. Thereafter, he contacted DCP Dheeraj Setia and disclosed the whole story,” Dr Nawal said in his disclosure statement. Dr Nawal further stated that DCP Setia refused to help him following which he called gangster Langarpuria and allegedly sought his help. “Dr Nawal planned the theft with Langarpuria, and on August 3 night the amount was stolen and was handed over to ASI Vikash Gulia who belongs to gangster’s village and was in his touch. The money was also given to three more Delhi residents to hide and to invest in the finance business,” stated the disclosure statement. Balan said as per the statement of Dr Nawal, after few days, DCP Setia called him to his office and he gave a site plan pertaining to the same place to commit theft. “Langarpuria called Dr Nawal and asked him to hush up the matter with police as they had arrested his close aides involved in the theft. He sent Gulia with a bag containing 3kg gold and 135,000 US dollars for handing over the amount to the DCP as he was officiating in-charge of DCP (crime),” the statement said. HT is in possession of disclosure statement filed in the Gurugram court. As per the statement of Dr Nawal, the DCP had denied to help as the case had taken shape of a big scandal. DCP kept a few thousand dollars with him for extending help in the matter and returned the remaining amount and gold to the main suspect, stated the statement. Dr Nawal further added that Langarpuria again sent a bag containing ₹2 crore to him for hushing up of the case. He again contacted the DCP but he asked him to return the money to the gangster, the statement said. The Haryana Police officials said till then the case was transferred to STF.Despite repeated attempts, DCP Setia and Shamsher Dahiya, jail superintendent, could not be reached for comments. Chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar on Friday said that they will not spare anyone involved in any illegal activity and strict action will be taken against that person if found guilty. “DCP Sethia has been suspended and investigation is still on. STF has arrested over 11 people and ₹6 crore has already been recovered,” he said. Authorities in the Haryana government have also asked the Enforcement Directorate and income tax department to look into the case, said a senior police officer associated with the development. 
12-12-2021||Delhi||Erroneous billing: Delhi Jal Board suspends 10 water meter readers||The Delhi Jal Board on Saturday suspended 10 water meter readers and terminated the services of 20 outsourced employees after being informed of incorrect readings, according to an order issued by the state’s water utility. A government spokesperson also said that the outsourcing agency has been issued a show-cause notice, asking why it shouldn’t be blacklisted and adding that a police case will be filed in the matter. The action came days after state water minister and DJB chairperson Satyendar Jain revised the utility’s water billing system, capping new bills at 1.5 times the amount of the previous month’s bill.“The director (revenue) is hereby directed to terminate the services of all such meter readers involved in such illegal activities. Further, a show-cause notice has been issued to the concerned outsourcing agency asking why action has not been taken against such fraudulent cases and why the government should not blacklist the company responsible for it. Further, the revenue director has been directed to get an FIR lodged against all such officials/meter readers for cheating and forgery under relevant sections of the law.”According to a government statement, Jain said DJB is committed to working towards transparency.A government official said that the agency has received several complaints of incorrect readings and inflated water bills over the past few months, and that it is carrying out an audit to identify errant officials. On Thursday, Jain announced that a water bill cannot be more than 1.5 times the previous month’s bill, under the new system. “If the bill crosses the 1.5 times limit, an explanation will be provided to the customer and the consumer can make a complaint. DJB will be held accountable and responsible for any errors,” Jain said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/erroneous-billing-delhi-jal-board-suspends-10-water-meter-readers-101639248042962.html
12-12-2021||Pune||Covid: Pune district reports 195 new cases, six deaths||Pune: As of Saturday, Pune district reported 195 new Covid-19 cases and six deaths due to the infection. This took the progressive count to 1.16 million of which 1.14 million have recovered, 20,077 deaths and 1,667 are active cases currently in hospital undergoing treatment or in home isolation. Pune also saw over 77,000 doses of vaccinations on the day. As per the state health department, Pune rural reported 71 new Covid cases which took the progressive count to 368,468 and the death toll went up to 6,992 as three more deaths were reported. Pune city reported 89 new Covid cases which took the progressive count to 523,864 and the death toll went up to 9,222 as three more deaths were reported. PCMC reported 35 new Covid cases and the progressive count went up to 270,241 and the toll stood at 3,513 as no more deaths were reported in the district on the day. Pune district also saw 77,330 vaccinations on the day as per the Co-WIN dashboard on Saturday and in total 14,125,864. Of which 8,441,358 are first doses and 5,684,506 are second doses. A total of 691 sites saw vaccination of which 479 were government centres and 212 were private.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/covid-pune-district-reports-195-new-cases-six-deaths-101639247864234.html
12-12-2021||Lucknow||BJP to launch five Jan Vishwas Yatras in Uttar Pradesh on December 19||The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) would launch five Jan Vishwas Yatras from different places in poll-bound Uttar Pradesh (UP) on December 19. The BJP took this decision after a meeting chaired by its state general secretary (organisation) Sunil Bansal on Saturday. The sixth yatra would start on December 20. Senior BJP leaders would flag off the yatras from Bijnor in western UP, Mathura in Braj, Jhansi in Bundelkhand, Ambedkarnagar and Ballia in east Uttar Pradesh. The sixth yatra would be launched from Ghazipur, also in east UP. “These yatras would cover all 403 assembly constituencies of the state,” party lawmaker Vidya Sagar Sonker, the in-charge of these yatras, said. The party hasn’t yet announced the leaders who would flag off these yatras. But those in the know of things said BJP chief JP Nadda, defence minister Rajnath Singh, Union home minister Amit Shah, chief minister Yogi Adityanath, deputy chief ministers Keshav Prasad Maurya and Dinesh Sharma, along with state BJP chief Swatantra Dev Singh and UP election panel head Dharmendra Pradhan, could launch them.“We are connecting with the people and would tell them about our government’s achievements,” Sonker said. Meanwhile, a joint rally of the BJP and its ally Nishad party would be held at Lucknow’s Ramabai Amebdkar Maidan on December 17, Nishad party leader and MLC Sanjay Nishad said on Saturday. Union home minister Amit Shah will attend the rally in which an announcement regarding providing reservation under the scheduled caste (SC) category to Nishads, members of the riverine community, could be made, he said. Nishad said the rally was previously planned for November 21, but had to be rescheduled.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/bjp-to-launch-five-jan-vishwas-yatras-in-uttar-pradesh-on-december-19-101639247742900.html
12-12-2021||Pune||Pune celebrates Pedestrians’ Day as Laxmi rd goes vehicle-free||Pune: December 11 will henceforth be observed as Pedestrians’ Day every year, said Pune mayor Murlidhar Mohol stating that more facilities will be provided by Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) for the pedestrians. With the PMC observing Saturday as Pedestrians’ Day, several families made their way to enjoy non-vehicle zone at Laxmi road, where both sides of the street were decorated with flower pots. While shops on the road between Nimbalkar Talim chowk and Umbraya Ganapati chowk reported higher footfall of customers, people were also seen playing games, walking leisurely along the road. Shopkeepers as well as stall owners also seemed happy to see people walking with smile and taking their time buying things. Ajay Agarwal, who owns a stall of gift articles said, “I have been holding a stall on Laxmi road for many years and never have I seen families so happy and tension free as today. With the road shut for traffic, people seemed to have more relaxed time to roam around and window shop without the tension of finding parking spot or being fined for wrong parking.” PMC has announced that no private vehicles are allowed at Laxmi road, one of the busiest streets in the city, between 10 am and 4 pm. The move is intended to celebrate the day, and as a part of this, PMC has organised various programmes at Laxmi road. This day, according to Harshad Abhyangkar, director, Save Pune Traffic Movement (SPTM), “denotes the joy of walking, and since morning, people are making their way with families to enjoy hassle free walk, taking parts in games related to pedestrian safety and eating. I actually saw people sitting on the road, relaxed and enjoying snacks too.” With this initiative, the administration aims to provide hassle-free movement as well as shopping for the citizens at Laxmi road. Mohol said, “This is the first time that a city has given importance to pedestrians by having a day to celebrate being able to walk on the streets without any hassles. This is just the beginning, and we will be celebrating it every year, making sure that zebra crossings are up to date, footpaths are continuous and well maintained and the pedestrian signals are working across the city by next year.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pune-celebrates-pedestrians-day-as-laxmi-rd-goes-vehiclefree-101639247685047.html
12-12-2021||Other||All, except one, banquet halls in Gurugram operating without licence, finds survey||There are 102 banquet halls and marriage venues operating under the jurisdiction of the Municipal Corporation of Gurugram (MCG), out of which only one is licensed to operate, a survey by the civic body has found. MCG officials said that barring one banquet hall in Sector 9, all 101 buildings are operating without a licence or certified adherence to building or fire safety norms of any kind.The officials said that in August they were directed by the Haryana Lokayukta to regularise the banquet halls and marriage places across the city as these can potentially be areas where mishaps can occur.“The survey has been completed. The findings were submitted in a detailed compiled report to the MCG commissioner on Thursday. Accordingly, the next course of action will be taken in the matter,” said Madhusmita Moitra, chief town planner, MCG.According to the officials, the report has recommended that the directorate of Urban Local Bodies (ULB) reintroduces its 2014 banquet hall policy with amendments.In 2014, for a short period, the ULB had come up with a policy for registering banquet halls and marriage venues, during which an owner of a solitary banquet hall in Sector 9 got his building regularised.“Banquet hall owners informed us that the main issue with the 2014 policy was that it demanded a one-time payment instead of renewing the licence on an annual basis. The one-time payment requires a banquet hall to pay in excess of ₹2 crore while an annual one will cost around ₹3-4 lakh. We have recommended reintroducing the banquet hall policy with an annual renewal system and reducing the minimum size of the service roads near the venues from 12 to nine metres,” said a senior MCG official privy to the matter.Anil Rao, president of the Haryana Party Lawns Association, said that the association had made similar recommendations to the MCG and the Haryana government as the ones in the civic body’s report. “Nearly 90% of banquet halls and marriage venues in the city operate on a lease basis. The tenants cannot afford the one-time payment. Annual renewal of licence will not only benefit us but also the government in the form of revenue,” Rao said.In November 2018, a banquet hall on Old Delhi-Gurgaon Road caught fire. Although the blaze was minor, it took fire department’s vehicles nearly 20 minutes to reach the site as the path leading to it was narrow.
12-12-2021||Pune||JM road in Pune scores top in walking happiness index||Pune: A survey conducted in the city as part of the Pedestrians’ Day to gauge the walking happiness index shows people enjoying walking on the wide continuous footpaths that have been built in some parts. In the survey, most respondents preferred Jungli Maharaj road followed by streets in Aundh and Bibwewadi where footpath conditions, their design and other aspects were taken into consideration. The survey conducted in mid-November was carried out by Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) along with Sustainable Urban Mobility Network (SUM Net) India, Parisar Pune, STPM (Sustainable Transport and Potential Mobility) and transport expert Pranjali Deshpande to gauge walking happiness index to show if pedestrians are indeed happy walking in areas surveyed. “Walking happiness Index is a tool developed by the Pune Municipal Corporation along with experts in the city to quantify the satisfaction level of pedestrians using simple techniques,” said Aditya Chawande, architect urban designer, project associate at Parisar who was mentor for the survey. The walking happiness index was launched by the Pune mayor Murlidhar Mohol on Saturday at Laxmi Road open street mall where he promised to continue with the Pedestrians’ Day and also look at keeping the zebra crossings, subways clean and maintained for pedestrians in future too. “We looked at eight roads selected to represent three categories like streets that have been transformed on the principles of complete street design under the Pune Streets programme (Jungli Maharaj road, Aundh DP road and Bibwewadi road), streets that have been modified with basic footpath improvement interventions (Gulavani Maharaj road, Prabhat road) and streets that will be transformed with better footpaths in coming years by PMC, (Shivarkar garden road, Wanowrie, Loop road, Yerawada and Sinhgad road),” Chawande said. Jungli Maharaj road scored maximum points when it came to parameters like pedestrian refuge areas while crossing the streets, footpath continuity, footpath width, pedestrian safety, light conditions at night, street furniture, encroachment free footpath. The main street in Aundh saw citizens giving positive response to footpath width and safety while crossing. In Bibwewadi, good lighting in the night and encroachment free footpath earned most points. “We took ten simple parameters to define the walking happiness index of the street, whereupon the pedestrians scored on each parameter on the scale of 1 to 4, with 1 for poor and 4 for the best. This is not a technical audit, instead we asked people walking on the streets on how they liked the roads, thus grading the total scores on the points given,” said Pranjali Deshpande, urban planner and mentor for the survey.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/jm-road-in-pune-scores-top-in-walking-happiness-index-101639247503126.html
12-12-2021||Delhi||Temperature hits season’s low, air improves to ‘poor’||The minimum temperature in the capital on Saturday fell to the lowest of the season so far, dipping to 8.3 degrees Celsius at Safdarjung, Delhi’s base station, even as stronger winds helped air quality to improve somewhat. The day’s minimum (8.3°C) and maximum temperature (26.7°C) were each a degree below the season’s normal levels, according to the India Meteorological Department. Minimum temperatures are likely to hover between 7-8°C for at least the next two days, a government forecaster said. “Delhi on Saturday recorded the lowest minimum temperature for the season, and the temperatures will not fluctuate much in the coming two or three days,” the official said. Stronger winds on Saturday brought down pollution marginally, with the air quality index (AQI) improving from ‘very poor’ to ‘poor’, data from Central Pollution Control Board showed. Poor air quality leads to breathing discomfort to most people. The city’s 24-hour average AQI at 4pm on Saturday was 281, down from 314 on Friday, the pollution watchdog said in its daily bulletin. Winds will stay relatively strong on Sunday as well, helping keep the city’s AQI in the same range, forecasters said. Winds are likely to calm down from November 14, and air pollution may spike once again, they warned. “Air quality is likely to remain in the ‘poor’ range on Sunday as well because of relatively higher wind speeds. The winds on Saturday reached around 10kmph from the northwest direction. On Sunday, the winds are likely to be around 8-10kmph and will be favourable for the dispersion of pollutants,” said VK Soni, head of the weather office’s environment and research centre.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/temperature-hits-season-s-low-air-improves-to-poor-101639247386791.html
12-12-2021||Lucknow||Air pollution: AQI of UP cities improves to “moderate” from “severe”||The Air Quality Index (AQI) of major Uttar Pradesh cities has shown marked improvement from “severe” and “very poor” to “poor” and “moderate” since November, as per the data of Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB). “The AQI numbers of major UP cities have not only improved since last month but are also better than the numbers of previous years. The air quality has improved despite drop in temperatures. This shows that the efforts made by agencies at district level and that of Uttar Pradesh Pollution Control Board (UPPCB) have been effective in improving air quality,” said member secretary of UPPCB Ajay Sharma. The pollution control boards along with municipal corporations, traffic and agriculture department have implemented graded response action plan (GRAP) across the state to reduce air pollution as per the directions of chief minster Yogi Adityanath. The GRAP refers to strict curbs on air pollution causing activities like stubble/garbage burning, uncovered construction work, illegal emissions in industries and taking measures to improve air quality. According to experts, recent scattered rains in part of west UP and drop in stubble burning has helped in improving the air quality. The AQI value of state capital Lucknow on Saturday was recorded at 199 that was down from 205 on November 11. An AQI in range of 101 to 200 is considered moderate, between 201 and 300 is considered poor while above 401 is considered severe with known adverse impact on human health on exposure.The change in AQI value of other cities differ more. The AQI of Agra, Baghpat and Bulandshahar on Saturday was 148, 193 and 185, far less than the AQI recorded on November 11 that was 437, 437 and 447 for the cities respectively. The AQI of Ghaziabad and Kanpur on Saturday was recorded at 264 and 186 which was less than 461 and 246 recorded on November 11.Similarly, the AQI in Prayagraj, Varanasi and Gorakhpur was recorded at 117, 122 and 113 as compared to 247, 293, and 271 recorded respectively on November 11.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/air-pollution-aqi-of-up-cities-turn-moderate-from-severe-101639242642659.html
12-12-2021||Lucknow||PM Modi ended neglect of eastern Uttar Pradesh: Yogi Adityanath||Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Saturday accused previous governments formed by other parties of neglecting eastern Uttar Pradesh and credited Prime Minister Narendra Modi with ending this. “Only a few days back, PM inaugurated a fertiliser factory in Gorakhpur that was closed down 31 years ago. The newly inaugurated factory is four times the capacity of the previous one. Along with that, the PM inaugurated AIIMS in Gorakhpur. We all know that in this region, people suffered from brain fever, malaria, kala-azar, chikungunya and dengue, but previously people were left to fend for themselves. Modi ji has given us a viral research centre there now,” Yogi Adityanath said after PM inaugurated the Saryu Nahar National Project in Balrampur district of eastern Uttar Pradesh. “The PM has inaugurated projects worth ₹10000 crore on December 7 in east UP. Before that, he inaugurated nine medical colleges from Siddharthnagar and also gave an international airport in Kushinagar,” Yogi Adityanath said. Yogi Adityanath accused the previous governments of not taking any interest in the Pradhan Mantri Krishi Sinchai Yojana, the irrigation scheme launched by PM Modi in 2016.“On coming to power in 2014, the PM took up 100 irrigation schemes like Saryu Nahar project that were stuck for decades. Of these, 18 projects were identified in UP, out of which 17 are now completed. These projects would help irrigate 22 lakh hectares of land in UP,” Adityanath said. “Work is on in one remaining project, the Madhya Ganga project that would link three districts,” Adityanath said adding that Saryu Nahar project would transform the lives of farmers. The chief minister said the first barrage of the Saryu Nahar project would also usher in prosperity, check migration and also increase tourist footfalls. “Close to the Nepal border, the region around Saryu Ghaghra barrage would attract tourists,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/pm-modi-ended-neglect-of-eastern-up-yogi-adityanath-101639241622819.html
