13-12-2021||Other||Prayagraj: ED attaches properties worth ₹8.14 cr of Atiq Ahmad, wife||Lucknow: The Enforcement Directorate (ED) on Monday attached immovable and movable assets, consisting of land and money in several bank accounts worth ₹8.14 crore, belonging to mafia-turned politician Atiq Ahmad and his wife in connection with a money laundering case. According to a press statement issued by ED, the agency initiated investigation under Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA) after taking cognizance of several FIRs lodged against him in different police stations, related to murder, extortion, cheating, forgery, land grabbing and crimes of similar nature. “During investigation under PMLA it was found that Atiq Ahmad through the criminal activities used to earn black money in cash and the same was deposited in several bank accounts of Atiq, his kin and close associates. It has been noticed by the ED that these funds are being credited in their accounts from various firms and companies of his aides. These funds have been further utilized for buying land in the name of his wife at the consideration price far below the government’s value,” the press statement said. “The ED has gathered data from IT department and other agencies related to the companies being run by Atiq’s aides. The agency is taking statements of the persons concerned and carrying out inquiry to ascertain the source of funds invested in these companies. Money trail of proceeds of crime is also being established,” reads the press statement. “In this provisional attachment, land property situated at mauza Katka, Paragana Jhunsi, Tehsil Phulpur, in name of Shaista Parveen, wife of Atiq Ahmad has been attached. This was acquired by Atiq Ahmad for only ₹4.5 crore which is far below the government’s value of ₹6.86 crore. In addition, the ED has also attached bank account balance of ₹1.28 crore lying in 10 bank accounts of Atiq Ahmad and one account of Shaista Parveen.” This was the first attachment by ED and further investigation was under progress, and more assets of Atiq Ahmad and his aides were likely to be attached in due course, said ED officials.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/prayagraj-ed-attaches-properties-worth-rs-8-14-cr-of-atiq-ahmad-wife-101639419909938.html
13-12-2021||Lucknow||Two women killed by speeding SUV in Lucknow||Two women were killed after being hit by a speeding SUV while walking on the road in the Nigoha area of Lucknow on Monday, police officials said. The vehicle lost its control after the accident and fell into a ditch. The occupants of the SUV were also injured and were admitted to a hospital where their condition is said to be critical.Giving details, Lucknow Superintendent of Police (rural), Hirdesh Kumar, said, “Two women identified as Sunita (34) and Reshma (36) were killed in a road accident that occurred on the road leading to Lucknow from Raebareli. The vehicle that hit the women was coming from Raebareli.”According to police, a 46-year-old man was driving the SUV. His 60-year-old mother was also in the car. According to bystanders, the SUV was speeding and hit the women, who were standing on the side of the road, while attempting to overtake another vehicle. After hitting the women, the SUV fell into a ditch and overturned.Local police personnel rushed the injured to the hospital. According to the SP, no police complaint has been lodged by the family of the deceased so far.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/two-women-killed-by-speeding-suv-in-lucknow-101639419731774.html
13-12-2021||Lucknow||Uttar Pradesh: Human trafficking racket busted; 9 Bangladeshis arrested by UP ATS||Lucknow: With the arrest of nine people, including the mastermind, Uttar Pradesh Anti-Terrorism Squad (ATS) on Monday busted a human trafficking racket, involved in trafficking Bangladeshis into India before sending them abroad on fake Indian passports, ATS officials said. The Bangladeshi nationals were detained by ATS officials in Kanpur on Sunday afternoon and arrested on Monday after questioning, they said. According to a press statement issued by the ATS, a team of ATS arrested eight Bangladeshi men, who had entered into India illegally and were intended to move abroad from a Delhi bound train from Kanpur. The ATS officials also arrested the mastermind of the racket, also a Bangladeshi national, from West Bengal. “The investigation into the case began after intelligence sources revealed that the gang involved in human trafficking is making fake Indian documents. Working on the Intel inputs, the ATS officials tracked down eight Bangladeshi nationals who entered into the country illegally and arrested them.” The Bangladeshi nationals were identified as Asidul Islam, Hussain Mohammad, Alamein Ahmed, Jaibul Islam, Jameel Ahmed, Rajeev Hussain, Shekhawat Khan and Aladdin Tariq. The accused, in their twenties, were kept in an abandoned Madarsa in West Bengal where they were trained to speak and sign in Hindi. They were also given fake Indian IDs with Hindu name before being taken to Delhi via train. According to ATS officials, the arrested people told STF officials that they were trafficked into India by Mahfuzur Rehman, who took ₹1 lakh each from them. Rehman provided them with fake documents and promised to send them to Dubai for work. “Acting on the information provided by the Bangladeshi nationals, the ATS arrested Mahfazur Rehman, 34, from a Madarsa in 24 Pargana Kolkata on Monday. Rehman is also a Bangladeshi national who was found to be living on fake ID. He is being brought to Lucknow on transit remand,” they said. The ATS has lodged an FIR of fraud and criminal conspiracy against all the nine accused and started investigation. “Investigation is being done to identify other people linked to the racket and active in the country. Further arrest will be based on the investigation into the matter,” reads the press statement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/uttar-pradesh-human-trafficking-racket-busted-9-bangladeshis-arrested-by-up-ats-101639419250436.html
13-12-2021||Lucknow||BSP to field candidates on 20 assembly seats in Punjab||LUCKNOW The Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP), along with alliance partner Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD), will soon launch the campaign for the Punjab assembly elections. BSP national general secretary Satish Chandra Mishra began his three-day visit to the poll-bound Punjab on Monday evening. On Tuesday, he will participate in the foundation day programme of SAD organized in Moga. Later, he will discuss the election strategy with top SAD leaders, including former chief minister Prakash Singh Badal, Sukhbir Singh Badal and Harsimrat Kaur Badal. Mishra said on Wednesday he will meet BSP office-bearers and workers in Chandigarh. After that, he will attend a meeting of BSP-SAD candidates for the 2022 Assembly election and other leaders. The BSP has decided to field candidates on 20 assembly seats while SAD will contest on 97 seats. BSP Punjab unit president Jasvir Singh Garhi, in a press statement on Monday, said the party has finalized candidates on 17 seats while candidates on remaining three seats will be announced soon. BSP chief Mayawati had reviewed preparations for the election in a series of meetings in Lucknow. Mayawati said the BSP- SAD alliance will free Punjab “from the misrule of the Congress party with victory in the 2022 assembly election.” “Party workers should work with honesty and make all-out efforts for the victory of the BSP- SAD alliance on each seat. We have to ensure that BSP-SAD forms a popular government in Punjab that works for the welfare of the masses and development of the state,” she said. Terming the Congress government in Punjab as corrupt, Mayawati said: “This government failed on all fronts. The people of Punjab wish to get free from the misrule of the Congress government. People’s welfare has been overlooked due to tussle among Congress leaders. The BSP and SAD workers should forget their differences to ensure victory of the alliance,” she emphasised. 
13-12-2021||Mumbai||NHSRCL acquires 40.39% land in Maharashtra for Mumbai – Ahmedabad train corridor||Mumbai: The Mumbai - Ahmedabad high speed bullet train project gets a land in Maharashtra. 40.39% land has been acquired for the construction of Mumbai - Ahmedabad high speed train corridor by the National High Speed Rail Corporation Limited (NHSRCL), body that will undertake construction of the high speed train corridors in India. In order to construct the Mumbai- Ahmedabad high speed train corridor, 432.67 hectares of land in Maharashtra is required. Of this, 174.77 hectares has been acquired so far according to the NHSRCL. As per the latest information by the NHSRCL in Maharashtra — 82.31 hectares of land of the required 287.53 hectares has been acquired in Palghar, 92.46 hectares of land in Thane of the required 140.32 hectares. However, no land so far has been acquired in Mumbai suburban of the required 4.82 hectares. In the Mumbai suburban area, land is required for the construction of the Mumbai underground high speed train terminal at the Bandra Kurla Complex (BKC), which has not been acquired yet. The NHSRCL recently deferred the bid submission for construction of the station at Bandra Kurla Complex (BKC) till April 2022 due to delay in land acquisition.In order to begin the on-ground construction in Maharashtra for the project, 80 to 90% land will be acquired. The land acquisition has been at a slow pace in Maharashtra because of the reluctance from the state government. The Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray had earlier questioned if the bullet train project of any benefit to the state and the Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA) had appeared non- committal on the project after coming to power. On ground construction work for the corridor has started in Gujarat. In October, NHSRCL had acquired 33 percent of land in Maharashtra for the project. The construction work of the bullet train corridor project has started in Gujarat and the first phase between Surat and Bilimora is expected to open by 2026. The 508.17 km of the Mumbai project, 155.76 km is in Maharashtra, 384.04 km in Gujarat and 4.3 km in Dadra and Nagar Haveli. The estimated cost of the Mumbai-Ahmedabad bullet train project is ₹1,10,000 crore of which ₹88,000 crore will be funding from Japan International Cooperation Agency (JICA).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/nhsrcl-acquires-40-39-land-in-maharashtra-for-mumbai-ahmedabad-train-corridor-101639417930111.html
13-12-2021||Other||Activists write to Bhupesh Baghel to reconsider move to expand mining in Hasdeo Arand forest||Wildlife activists and researchers wrote a letter to Chhattisgarh chief minister Bhupesh Baghel on Monday, requesting him to reconsider the state government’s decision to pursue proposals for the opening up and expansion of mining operations in the Hasdeo Arand forest. The letter stated that despite the Chhattisgarh government’s assurance recorded in the 2012 forest clearance for the Parsa (East) and Kete Basan (PEKB) coal mine, wherein it has been stated that “the State Government will not come up for opening up of the main Hasdeo-Arand”, the permission has been given. “We believe this to be an ill-considered decision, one that will have devastating long-term consequences for the natural heritage of Chhattisgarh and the lives and livelihoods of millions. It is, furthermore, a decision that lacks both scientific legitimacy and popular mandate, since it neither accurately represents the will of the indigenous communities that reside in the Hasdeo Arand forest, nor follows the recommendations of the expert study that was conducted to evaluate the environmental and biodiversity conservation impacts of mining in the region,” the letter stated. The letter also mentioned the study of Forestry Research (ICFRE) and the Wildlife Institute of India (WII) which was submitted to the Chhattisgarh government in October 2021. Notably, the report stated that the Hasdeo Arand forest in which the HACF lies is one of the largest contiguous stretches of dense forest in Central India, spanning 170,000 hectares. The forest is also the catchment of the Hasdeo River, the Mahanadi’s largest tributary, and is therefore critical for perennial river flow. It is also the watershed for the Hasdeo Bango reservoir, which is critical for the irrigation of 300,000 hectares of double-cropped land in Chhattisgarh. Through camera traps and sign surveys, the WII report has recorded the presence of over 25 species of mammals in the study area – including nine species listed under Schedule I of the Wild Life (Protection) Act, 1972, and thereby accorded the highest protection under Indian law,” the letter stated. The WII report also claimed that the surrounding landscape is an integral part of the elephant range in northern Chhattisgarh, with a “conservative minimal estimate” of 40 to 50 elephants using the area at different times of the year. “The report recommends that ‘mining operations may only be permitted in the already operational PEKB mine of the block’, and that other areas in HACF and landscape surrounding it should be declared ‘no-go area’ and no mining should be carried out considering the irreplaceable, rich biodiversity and socio-cultural values,” it stated. “We urge you to overturn your government’s recommendations to the MoEFCC regarding the opening up and expansion of further mining operations in Hasdeo Arand forest. In doing so, you would only be fulfilling the mandate you have received to safeguard the natural heritage of Chhattisgarh and the lives, livelihoods and rights of indigenous communities,” the activists requested in the letter. Sudeip Shrivastva, an environment lawyer based in Chhattisgarh, responding to the letter, said, that the state government should withdraw the proposal of mining in the Hasdeo forest. “Ideally, after getting the WII reports, the state government ought not to process any further clearance of mining in this area and should withdraw the diversion of forest in Phase-2 clearance of PEKB mining area and Parsa and Kete Extension,” Shrivastava added.
13-12-2021||Lucknow||UP steps up efforts to ensure tap water in each B’khand house||After the inauguration of the Saryu Nahar national project by Prime Minister Narendra Modi in Balrampur on Saturday (December 11), the Yogi government has now expedited work on the “Har Ghar Nal (tap water in every house)” scheme that is aimed at ending water crisis in Bundelkhand. “Through the ‘Har Ghar Nal Yojana’, the UP government is working towards providing clean drinking water to villagers as well as increasing development and employment in areas like Bundelkhand. The entire team is working on a war footing. A trial run of water supply is going on in many areas. In a few days, we will be able to start the water supply completely,” said principal secretary, Namami Gange, and rural water supply department Anurag Srivastava. On Saturday, the PM had also said that his government had cleared the nearly ₹45000 crore Ken-Betwa river linking project which would rid the Bundelkhand region of water crisis. “We are working tirelessly to ensure that pure water is supplied to the people of Bundelkhand and the Vindhya region so that they can get rid of a majority of illnesses caused by contaminated water including diarrhoea, jaundice, cholera, and other gastro diseases,” Srivastava said. Medical experts agree that with a tap water supply, 60 percent of stomach-related diseases will be cured. “’Har Ghar Nal Yojana’ will prove to be a boon for the people of Bundelkhand who have been struggling for years to obtain safe drinking water,” said Dr PK Gupta, a member of UP Medical Council and former president of IMA, Lucknow Chapter. The central government has provided water supply in 43 percent of rural areas in the last two years under the “Jal Jeevan Mission”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/up-steps-up-efforts-to-ensure-tap-water-in-each-b-khand-house-101639417329759.html
13-12-2021||Lucknow||Construction of KV Corridor was possible just because of PM Modi: Yogi||Chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Monday said construction of the Kashi Vishwanath Corridor in Varanasi had been possible just because of Prime Minister Narendra Modi.The Vishwanath Dham in Kashi, construction of Ram temple in Ayodhya, establishing yoga on international platforms, and getting Kumbh Mela recognised as an intangible heritage of the world is part of Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s campaign to re-establish Indian cultural values and civilization on the world stage, the chief minister said.Yogi Adityanath was speaking at the inauguration ceremony of the KV Corridor. Welcoming PM Modi, Yogi said KV Corridor has become a medium to end the pain which Mahatma Gandhi expressed after seeing the filthy condition of the lanes around the Kashi Vishwanath temple during his visit in 1916.Yogi also said that those who ruled the country for several decades in the name of Gandhi did nothing to remove the pain of the Mahatma. Now PM Modi has built a grand corridor, he said.Yogi also said Kashi faced adverse circumstances for 1000 years just like the country and every Indian.Though Indore’s queen Rani Ahalyabai Holkar had got the Kashi Vishwanath temple reconstructed between 1778 and 1780, now a grand Kashi Vishwanath Dham has been built after many years just because of Prime Minister Narendra Modi, he said.Yogi also said every Indian is delighted and those who love Indian culture and tradition are thanking the Prime Minister.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/construction-of-kv-corridor-was-possible-just-because-of-pm-modi-yogi-101639417210837.html
13-12-2021||Pune||132 new Covid-19 cases and two deaths on Monday in Pune district||PUNE As of Monday, Pune district reported 132 new Covid-19 cases and two deaths due to the infection. This takes the progressive count to 1.16 million of which 1.14 million have recovered. The death toll stands at 20,088 and there are 1,685 active cases who are currently in hospital undergoing treatment or in home isolation. Pune district also saw 78,508 vaccinations on the day. As per the state health department, Pune rural reported 55 new Covid-19 cases which takes the progressive count to 368,588. The death toll went up to 6,995 as one more death was reported on Monday. Pune city reported 54 new Covid-19 cases which takes the progressive count to 524,014 and the death toll went up to 9,228 as one more death was reported on Monday. PCMC reported 23 new Covid-19 cases and the progressive count went up to 270,300. The toll stood at 3,515 as no deaths were reported in the district on Monday. Pune district also saw 78,508 vaccinations on the day as per CoWin dashboard on Monday. Of the total of 14,253,360 vaccinations, 8,480,190 are first doses and 5,773,170 are second doses. A total of 682 sites saw vaccinations of which 460 are government centres.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/132-new-covid-19-cases-and-two-deaths-on-monday-in-pune-district-101639417209540.html
13-12-2021||Pune||Standing committee to decide on proposals to lease out sports complexes in Pune||PUNE As Covid-19 restrictions have been lifted in Pune, the Pune municipal corporation (PMC) has started the process of leasing out sports complexes to private parties to ruin. Various proposals have been submitted to the standing committee for approval. The Shivajirao Dhume Sports complex at Sahakarnagar, the Ghorpade peth swimming tank, the table tennis hall at Baburao Sanas sports complex near Sarasbaug and the swimming tank at Shivajinagar are all on the table. Standing committee chairman Hemant Rasane said, “Proposals are in front of the committee and members will take an appropriate decision.” An officer from the PMC speaking anonymously said that as the sports complexes have been shut , there is urgent need for repair and maintenance.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/standing-committee-to-decide-on-proposals-to-lease-out-sports-complexes-in-pune-101639417035812.html
13-12-2021||Mumbai||After HC rap, state to remove landfill in Uran mangroves, notify area as forest||MUMBAI: After being reprimanded by the Bombay high court (HC) last week, the state government on December 9 convened a meeting of officials led by the cabinet minister for environment and drew up a plan to remove a 15-year-old unsanitary landfill from amid the mangrove swamps at Bori Pakhadi – about two km from the heart of Uran city in Raigad district.The development comes just five days after the HC sought the direct intervention of Aaditya Thackeray in this ‘long standing issue’. Dumping of municipal waste in the area has now been stopped from December 10, and the area will be cleaned up and notified as a ‘reserve forest’ in line with an HC order from a separate matter related to mangrove conservation.Last week, the HC pulled up both the Raigad district collector and Uran municipal corporation (UMC) for non-compliance with its own order from three years ago, prohibiting the dumping of municipal waste from Uran city in the mangroves on a 4 hectare plot at Bori Pakhadi. “We want the environment minister to intervene in this and sort it out,” the court subsequently added.The UMC has been dumping nearly two metric tonne of city waste in the area for at least 15 years, leading to the creation of a four hectare large garbage dump in the middle of the mangrove swamps, according to a December 2018 petition filed by the Uran-based Shri Hanuman Koliwada Macchimar Vikas Sanstha (a fisheries co-operative).In response to this petition, the HC had on December 19, 2018, passed an order directing the UMC to divert its waste to an alternative site. The December 19, 2018 HC order stated, “The learned counsel appearing for the UMC submits that they have identified a plot where solid waste will be dumped. The learned counsel submits that the municipal council will not dump the solid waste in the restricted area till the alternate arrangement is made.”In an affidavit submitted to the HC subsequently on February 19, 2019, the district collector had stated that the alternative land for dumping solid waste is yet to be identified and allotted. This plan, however, has now been scrapped entirely. As per the minutes of the high-level meeting chaired by the environment minister on December 9 (that were submitted to the HC on Monday), the UMC will no longer require any allocation of land to stop dumping its waste at Bori Pakhadi.Instead, “the UMC will segregate wet waste from dry waste. Segregated organic waste will be processed at its existing bio-methanation plant at Sarvodayawadi, Tal, Uran,” as per the minutes. Dry waste, on the other hand, will be segregated at a nearby material recovery facility which is also operated by the UMC, while dry waste that cannot be recycled will be dumped at the City Industrial Development Corporation’s (CIDCO’s) solid waste facility some 40km away in Chal village, Panvel taluka. “UMC will pay the processing charges to CIDCO,” on similar lines as they have already been doing with the Panvel municipal corporation, according to the minutes.CIDCO has already started accepting the segregated waste since December 10. “In view of this, the UMC affirmed that the land for processing and disposal of solid waste is not required,” as per the minutes of the December 9 meeting. The UMC has also been directed by the environment minister to draw up an eco-restoration plan for the affected area at Bori Pakhadi in consultation with the forest department, according to the minutes.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/after-hc-rap-state-to-remove-landfill-in-uran-mangroves-notify-area-as-forest-101639416849690.html
13-12-2021||Lucknow||Oppn seeks to link KV Corridor opening to politics||The Opposition parties, including the Samajwadi Party (SP), the Congress and the Aam Aadmi Party, have sought to link the inauguration of Kashi Vishwanath (KV) Corridor to politics. While claiming credit for the project, Samajwadi Party national president Akhilesh Yadav in a tweet in Hindi late on Sunday night said: “Here’s a chronology of Kashi Vishawanath Corridor: Crores of rupees were sanctioned (for the project) under SP regime, acquisition of buildings for the corridor began in the SP government. Emoluments for the temple staff was also fixed (in SP regime)”.After the inauguration on Monday, when asked for his comment on PM Modi’s visit and one-month long celebrations, Akhilesh told reporters in Etawah “This is very good. He ( PM) can stay there not for one month but two or even three months. That is a good place to stay; people spend their final days in Banaras.” Yadav was suggesting in his remarks that the BJP government was in its final days in Uttar Pradesh.
13-12-2021||Pune||300,000 beneficiaries in Pune still have to take 2nd Covid vax dose||PUNE At least 300,000 beneficiaries in Pune city still have to take their second Covid vaccine dose, despite completing the mandatory 84-day gap after the first dose. The PMC has now deployed staff at all Covid vaccination centres to call up people whose second dose is pending and counsel them to get fully vaccinated. Earlier, it was reported that Pune district had the highest number of beneficiaries waiting to take the second dose among all the districts in the state.Pune Municipal Corporation health department chief, Dr Ashish Bharti said, “We are still collecting data from private and government hospitals based on the data from CoWin website, we estimate that 003,000 beneficiaries are due to get the second dose of the vaccine. Despite enough vaccination centres and also more than enough stock of vaccines available with us, people are not turning up to be vaccinated.” Another senior PMC official said, “We are now asking staff deployed at Covid centres to call people up based on numbers registered on the CoWin website to take their second shot. It is extremely essential to be fully vaccinated, however, as the wave receded and the fear of Omicron is also uncertain, people are not turning up the vaccination centres.” As per the civic body’s vaccination report of December 9, the wards with the lowest second-dose vaccinations are at Yerawada-Kalas-Dhanori, at 46% and 67% beneficiaries vaccinated with the first dose; after that is Kondhwa-Yewalewadi ward which has 62% first-dose beneficiaries vaccinated and 55% second-dose beneficiaries fully vaccinated; then is Wanawadi-Ratekdi ward, with 76% who have taken the first dose and 65% who are fully vaccinated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/300000-beneficiaries-in-pune-still-have-to-take-2nd-covid-vax-dose-101639416494347.html
13-12-2021||Lucknow||Waseem Rizvi to resign from Waqf Board’s membership||Former Uttar Pradesh Shia Waqf Board Chairman Syed Waseem Rizvi, who recently embraced “Sanatan Dharm” (Hinduism) and got his name changed to Jitendra Narayan Singh Tyagi, on Monday said he will take part in the Board meeting scheduled for Tuesday where he will resign from Board’s membership.Alleging that some clerics and anti-social elements were planning an attack on him during his visit to the Board’s office, he also sought police protection. “I would be handing over my resignation to the Board in a meeting. I came to know that some clerics and anti-social elements are planning an attack on me. I have informed the same to the district administration and Hazratganj police station,” he said.His reaction came two days after the Shia Waqf Board issued a statement to initiate process to scrap his membership. Ali Zaidi, chairman, UP Shia Central Waqf Board had said the Board would write to the UP government demanding expulsion of the former chairman from the Board’s membership.He had also highlighted the fact that as per the Waqf Act 1995 that governs the board, a Board member should mandatorily a Muslim and since Rizvi had embraced Sanatan Dharma, he did not fit in the criterion to be a Board member.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/waseem-rizvi-to-resign-from-waqf-board-s-membership-101639416309671.html
13-12-2021||Other||Manipur CM expresses pride in PM Modi wearing traditional ‘Lengyan’ in Varanasi||Manipur chief minister Nongthombam Biren Singh on Monday expressed pride in witnessing Prime Minister Narendra Modi wearing state’s traditional cloth ‘Leirum Phee’ designed as ‘Lengyan’ (muffler) during a prayer event and the follow-up dip in river Ganga before inaugurating the Kashi Vishwanath Corridor in Varanasi.Sharing a photo of PM Modi wearing ‘Lengyan’ in a tweet on Monday, Biren Singh wrote, ”Mesmerising visual of Hon’ble PM Sri @naredramodi Ji taking a dip in Maa Ganga to offer Ardhaya to Suryadev. Delighted that Hon’ble PM Narendra Modi Ji is wearing our traditional ‘Leirum’ on such a historic day at Kashi.”Manipur’s traditional ‘Leirum Phee’ designed as an official ‘Lengyan’ (muffler) has cultural, historical, and emotional importance for the people of Manipur.Considering its importance, the state’s directorate of handloom had started the process of acquiring a geographical indication (GI) tag for ‘phee’, which means cloth in Manipur’s Meitei language.In June last year, the directorate had also written to the Union Ministry of Textiles, urging it to stop production of an indigenous cloth of the north-eastern state that is purportedly being manufactured on a mass scale and under a different brand name in Uttar Pradesh (UP) in a bid to safeguard local weavers’ interests following a video which started doing the rounds on social media.Prime Minister Narendra Modi had already publicised the cloth after he wore it during his address to the nation on April 14 in 2020 on extending the lockdown restrictions due to the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) outbreak. The PM also wore it during his address to the nation on the occasion of Independence Day on August 15, 2019.‘Leirum Phee’ has been used as a symbol in Manipur on every sociocultural occasion since 2004 considering its cultural and economic significance, according to officials. The production of traditional ‘Leirum Phee’ had started during the reign of the Manipuri king Loyumba in 1074-1112 AD, according to official reports.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/manipur-cm-expresses-pride-in-pm-modi-wearing-traditional-lengyan-in-varanasi-101639416010389.html
13-12-2021||Pune||68th Sawai Gandharv Mahotsav to take place between February 2 and 6||PUNE The Sawai Gandharv Bhimsen Mahotsav organised by the Arya Sangeet Prasarak Mandal will take place between February 2 and 6, 2022, organisers said. This would be the 68th edition of this iconic festival. Just like the last two editions, the festival will be organised at the Kataria High School grounds at Mukundnagar. Shrinivas Joshi, executive president of the Arya Sangeet Prasarak Mandal said, “The dates of the festival have been chosen in such a way that the birth centenary year of Bharat Ratna Pandit Bhimsen Joshi ends with the Sawai Gandharva Bhimsen Mahotsav. All the rules and regulations of the state government applicable at the time of the festival shall be followed.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/68th-sawai-gandharv-mahotsav-to-take-place-between-february-2-and-6-101639415958457.html
13-12-2021||Lucknow||Inauguration of KV Corridor a matchless experience, say Kashi residents||The inauguration of the Kashi Vishwanath (KV) Corridor on Monday was a matchless experience, said residents as the city of Varanasi, also known as Kashi or Benares, basked in the festive glow on the occasion.The lanes, ghats, prominent buildings, temples, intersections and bridges were illuminated with ornamental lights. The roads and lanes were cleaned. The locals lit over 11 lakh (1.1 million) earthen lamps at ghats, lanes and in front of their houses, Kashi residents said. Somnath Vishwakarma, a resident, said, “KV Corridor’s inauguration is na bhuto, na bhavishyati (unparalleled) experience for us. Baba Kashi Vishwanath is the centre of faith for crores of Hindus like us. The KV Corridor, which is also known as Kashi Vishwanath Dham, is unique and so has been its inauguration.”Shailendra Mishra, a local BJP worker deployed for making arrangements for the inaugural ceremony, said, “With Baba Kashi Vishwanath’s blessings, Prime Minister Narendra Modi has built the KV Corridor project. The project has added to the spiritual vibrancy of Kashi. It is equipped with state-of-the-art facilities for pilgrims.” The KV Corridor and its unique features would transform experience of the devotees visiting Kashi Vishwanath temple now onwards, said Vijay Yadav “Ballu”, who visits the temple daily to offer prayers. Many people voluntarily decorated their houses with ornamental lights, he said, adding that over 11 lakh (1.1 million) diyas (earthen lamps) illuminated the entire city and a Dev Deepawali-like atmosphere was palpable, he said.Ashwani Pandey, co-convenor of month-long cultural programmes associated with the inauguration, said, “KV Corridor is grand, divine and unique. The entire country watched the inauguration of Kashi Vishwanath Corridor. The inaugural ceremony was so grand that it left people enthralled. For us, it was once in a lifetime occasion.” Devotees will get a taste of spirituality and comfort when they visit the Kashi Vishwanath temple through the spacious corridor which has been dedicated to the devotees, said Pandey and added that the corridor will help increase the income of the boatmen as now many devotees were most likely to visit Kashi Vishwanath Dham by boat since the corridor has connected Kashi Vishwanath temple and the Ganga. Devotees may board a boat any of the ghats and reach Kashi Vishwanath Dham while enjoying the scenic view of ghats and Ganga flowing calmly. The pilgrimage to Kashi will be an entirely new experience, he said. 
13-12-2021||Lucknow||UPTET-2021 now likely on Jan 23, ERA sends proposal to state govt||The Uttar Pradesh Teacher Eligibility Test (UPTET)-2021, which was cancelled on November 28 due to paper leak, was now proposed to be held on January 23, 2022, said a senior education department official while requesting anonymity.A proposal in this regard had been sent to the state government on behalf of the office of the Examination Regulatory Authority (ERA), Prayagraj, the official added. UPTET is a state-level exam conducted once a year to enable candidates to gain eligibility to teach primary (classes 1-5) and upper primary (classes 6-8) classes in schools of UP government. The responsibility of conducting the exam lies with the ERA. Refraining from commenting on the proposal sent to the state government in this regard, secretary, ERA, Anil Bhushan Chaturvedi said, “Conducting the UPTET-2021 at the earliest in a transparent and fair manner is the top priority of ERA and efforts in this regard are well under way.”With this, the speculations over UPTET being conducted in December itself have ended. St the time cancellation of UPTET-2021, the state government had said that the examination would be conducted in a month’s time.However, officials say that conducting the exam again will take time as the ERA would need to again decide the printing press for printing of the question papers and OMR sheets (answer sheets) and also get the examination centres rechecked.After that, fresh admit cards will have to be sent to the candidates. However, the date proposed for re-conducting UPTET-2021 by ERA is expected to be approved by the state government as the emphasis is on getting the exam finally conducted as soon as possible.ERA officials say the number of TET centres is expected to come down by around 15 per cent after they are finalised. The state government has directed respective district magistrates to get the centres checked from their level. Only schools of good repute have to be made centres. In the centres that were set up for the November 28 examination, a large number of private schools of UP Board were also given the responsibility.There are about a dozen districts, including Prayagraj, where such schools were made centres where there was no arrangement to seat even 500 examinees at a time and due to which the count of exam centres had also increased.At the same time, fewer examinees were allotted in some of the bigger schools. However, now with inclusion of degree colleges, universities and even schools of other educational boards as exam centres, the total number of centres is expected to be reduced by 15 percent as compared to the centres made for the November 28 exam, officials said.UPTET for the primary level was to be held at 2,554 centres across UP between 10am and 12.30pm followed by test for upper primary level from 2.30pm to 5pm at 1,754 centres on November 28. A total of 12,91,628 candidates were registered to appear in the test in the first shift in the state while 8,73,553 were registered to appear in the second shift. However, the state government cancelled the exam after the recovery of question papers from 26 people arrested in five districts of the state hours before the exam.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/uptet2021-now-likely-on-jan-23-era-sends-proposal-to-state-govt-101639415951260.html
13-12-2021||Mumbai||Domestically produced wine in Maharashtra set to get costlier||Mumbai: As two-decade long tax holiday for Maharashtra’s wine makers comes to an end on December 31, the state is contemplating imposing excise duty starting from the new year, which means that wine consumers might have to pay more for domestically produced wine in Maharashtra. The state is working on a new policy for wine made from grapes produced in the state, as the present one will expire by the end of the year. It is expected to be tabled before the state cabinet this month. “We may impose a marginal excise duty at around 5 to 10% of the manufacturing cost. This will be a nominal rate as the wine industry is yet to stand on its feet. So, instead of a 100% tax waiver, it may be between 90 to 95%,” a senior state government official who did not wish to be quoted said. A senior state government official said that a marginal rate of excise duty, which may be around ₹10 per bulk liter, may be levied. “If this rate is finalized, it will translate into a nominal rise in the MRP at an average of ₹10 per bottle containing 750 ml wine,” said a senior state government official. Alternatively, the producers could also absorb the tax without increasing the selling prices. However, the decision about the tax slab will be taken by the cabinet. The official added that while levying excise duty at around 5 to 10 percent of the manufacturing cost was also being considered, this alternate formula would lead to the retail prices shooting up by a steeper ₹25 to 30 per bottle, depending on the manufacturing cost declared by the wineries. Hence, a softer tax regime based on every liter of wine produced was likely to be adopted, considering that the industry is yet to establish a firm foothold. A wine producer too opined that a bulk liter-based system would be beneficial for the industry vis-à-vis one based on manufacturing cost. Wineries are also charged value added tax (VAT) of 20 per cent, of which 16 per cent is refunded to them. Currently wine from wineries outside Maharashtra are charged 100 percent of the manufacturing cost. While wine produced in wineries outside Maharashtra are charged duty at 100% of the manufacturing cost, those like Sula or Grover which have wineries in the state and make wine out of grapes grown here, are not charged any excise duty. The state also imposes a value added tax (VAT) of 20% on this domestic wine (produced from grapes grown in Maharashtra), of which 16% is refunded to them. Maharashtra has between 40 and 45 operational wineries. Of these, between 15 and 20 units directly market products, while the rest are only manufacturers. The wine industry has a turnover of around ₹1,000 crore in India, of which 65% in Maharashtra. Most wineries are located in Nashik — which produces around 80% of India’s wine, and is called the country’s wine capital —followed by Sangli, Pune, Solapur, Buldhana and Ahmednagar. Country liquor (CL), which is consumed more by working class drinkers because it is cheaper, has an excise duty. Wine, consumed by the elite, has a tax holiday. However, despite the concession, state excise department officials said that wine consumption has not shown a healthy growth. They attributed this to a lack of marketing channels besides liquor shops, which prefer to retail established brands. In 2020-21, wine consumption in Maharashtra was just around 70 lakh litres compared to country liquor (32 crore litres), beer (30 crore litres) and Indian Made Foreign Liquor (IMFL) (20 crore litres). Jagdish Holkar, President, All India Wine Producers Association (AIWPA), said they expected the policy to ensure that wine was easily available to consumers, sans hurdles. “Wine must not be treated as liquor. Abroad, it is treated as a health drink,” he said, adding that a growth in wine production could boost the agro-economy, and ensure remunerative prices to farmers. Holkar also sought online licensing and ease of doing business. Rajesh Jadhav, former state secretary, AIWPA, urged the state government to extend their tax holiday for at least another decade. The state must allow wineries to sell their products directly to consumers to pull down prices and ensure smaller wineries were operational. India sees around 4 million cases of domestically produced and imported wine (one case includes 12 bottles of 750 ml each) being consumed. Maharashtra’s share hovers around 40%. BOX: India lags in wine consumption with per capita consumption estimated at just 10ml compared to 4 litres in China India sees around 4 million cases of domestically produced and imported wine (one case includes 12 bottles of 750 ml each) being consumed. Maharashtra’s share hovers around 40% Maharashtra is said to have the right soil, topography, mineral content, weather and water for growing grapes. One of the leading producers of table grapes, Maharashtra grows wine grapes on just 5,000-acre land, compared to 2.5 to 3 lakh-acre for table grapes On an average, one kilo of grapes can be used to produce around 600 ml wine||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/domestically-produced-wine-in-maharashtra-set-to-get-costlier-101639415949591.html
13-12-2021||Pune||Traffic congestion on new alternate routes irks Chandni chowk and Sus-Pashan commuters||PUNE Heavy traffic on the alternate routes near Chandni chowk and Pashan-Sus flyover bridge is making commuting during peak hours a huge hassle for citizens. With offices resuming, these routes are noticing heavy rush causing traffic snarls everyday.With flyover and metro work going on at Chandni chowk, the service road from Kothrud which connects to Satara road has been closed. People coming from Bhugaon, NDA and Kothrud have to take the highway for daily commuting, causing a severe inconvenience.The alternate route near Sus-Pashan under construction flyover bridge is no less than a bumpy ride with the road riddled with potholes, thus causing overcrowing of vehicles. The alternate route is from the Hyundai showroom, Sus road via Supreme HQ building to Nanawre subway.When both of these routes were finalised , partial restrictions of Covid-19 were still in place, so commuters did not face trouble while commuting but now things are very different. The work of Sus-Pashan highway was expected to be completed by November 2021, however due to the pandemic, the deadline has been extended and now it is expected to be completed by April 2022.“We have informed the city traffic police, regarding the daily traffic jams which have increased in the last one month after Diwali break on both the alternate routes. At few places traffic police are deployed, while they will be increasing the bandobast to streamline the traffic,” said an official from the PMC’s project department. Bharat Bharambe who travels between Pune to Satara every day, said,“The highway gets overcrowded while coming back to Satara every evening. The traffic jam starts at Warje. On Sunday my car was stuck for more than an hour near Chandini chowk. It takes nearly 40-50 minutes every day to cover that stretch.”Sachin Vani who stays at Pashan said “Regional traffic police officials need to be there to maintain the traffic on road as two-wheelers are crossing speed limit and overtaking from the wrong sides. Currently traffic discipline is missing from this alternate route which is causing more jams.”More traffic diversionWith slab work of Sus-Pashan flyover set to commence in January, Pune Municipal Corporation’s project official and city traffic police are finalising a plan to divert the traffic. “It will be a difficult task again as traffic movement will need to stop completely, like we did when the pillar was demolished, the work will only start after the plan is finalised,” said the official from the city traffic police.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/traffic-congestion-on-new-alternate-routes-irks-chandni-chowk-and-sus-pashan-commuters-101639415650102.html
13-12-2021||Pune||Honking menace reaches a high in Pune, citizens turn a deaf ear||PUNE Pune observed no honking day on December 12, however, according to social organisations monitoring the honking menace in the city, there is only one traffic police to keep check on 4,000 vehicles, which leads to one crore honks in a day.DCP ( Traffic ) Rahul Srirame stated that there are 980 police personnel for 46 lakh vehicles in the city. Each vehicle honks between 5 to 10 times during the day taking the aggregate honking over a crore, leading to heavy noise pollution. “ Effective steps need to be undertaken to prevent the epidemic-like proportion of sound pollution in the city which is impacting citizen health and adding to pollution levels in the city ,” he said.A joint programme with Life Saving Foundation, traffic police and Navchaitanya Hasyayog Parivar was held to spread awareness about reducing noise pollution levels in the city on the theme of ‘ No Honking Day ’. Activists and citizens shouted slogans like “ Horn Not Ok Please” and “ Say no to honking ” during the drive.No Honking Day was observed at 10 chowks in Pune city on Sunday while the main program was held at Alka Talkies chowk where Devendra Pathak from Life Saving Foundation, Makrand Tillu and Padmakar Punde from Navchaitanya Hasayog Pariwar were present .Pathak said, “Honking happens nearly 1 crore times every day and it is a major health and pollution menace to the citizens. We need to avoid honking for a healthier city.”The traffic branch officials maintained that the department was also disseminating information that unnecessary honking and blaring was not in the interests of the health of Puneites while activists maintained that punitive action must be taken to restore health and silence in the city.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/honking-menace-reaches-a-high-in-pune-citizens-turn-a-deaf-ear-101639415410776.html
13-12-2021||Pune||Health dept paper leak case: NHM joint director’s police custody extended with new evidence||PUNE The police custody remand of Mahesh Botle, 53, joint director of Maharashtra’s National Health Mission in Mumbai, was increased by a court in Pune on Monday. The police told the court that evidence of Botle’s involvement in leak of group C question paper has also been found. Additionally, three other people arrested earlier in the case were also remanded to further police custody by the same court in Pune in the case. They have all been remanded to police custody till December 18 , said officials. The decision was taken by the court of Judicial magistrate first class SG Dolare with public prosecutor Vijaysinh Jadhav and a group of lawyers representing the accused. The three others were identified Prakash Misal (40) an employee of the Indian Navy posted in Mumbai, Namdev Karande (23) and Umesh Mohite (24), students from Aurangabad. Botle, joint director (non-technical), National Health Mission in Mumbai was first remanded to police custody by the same court on December 9 while Misal was remanded to police custody on December 6 after his arrest from Mumbai on December 5. Misal is a relative of another accused identified as Udhav Nagargoje, 36, who is allegedly an agent and currently in police custody. Nagargoje and two other agents who are on the run are also under the police scanner for suspicion of having leaked other papers including TET and police recruitment exam papers. “He (Misal) is a white collar criminal. He has tried to mislead the police. These two (Misal and Botle) have earned money from group D, and group C paper as well. We need to get details to their bank accounts and also need to interrogate them together,” said PP Jadhav. Earlier, the two alleged students were arrested on December 10 and remanded to police custody till Monday. On Monday, the police told the court that the two are suspected to have bought the paper and sold it further. Among those produced in court in Monday, Botle has spent five days in police custody while the two students have spent four days in police custody. Misal has spent eight days in police custody. Advocate Pooja Agarwal, representing Misal, said, “Same reasons have been presented for remand for the third time. They have admitted earlier as well that the phone and laptop have been seized. I (Misal) have been in jail for eight days now. I seek magisterial custody remand.” Botle was arrested from Mumbai by Pune police cybercrime cell on December 8. Botle is accused of having leaked the paper of recruitment examination to fill posts in Group C of the health department. He was remanded to police custody till December 13. “He has been on the committee for setting question papers since 2020. So far the investigation was about group D but evidence of group C paper leak has also been found with him,” said PP Jadhav in court. His lawyer, Advocate Hrushikesh Subhedar said, “My (Botle’s) laptop, pen drive, phone, and desktop hard disc have been seized. There were three other members in the paper setting committee but only I have been arrested. I have had three heart attacks in the past and my health is at risk.” The 17 people arrested so far are under arrest in a case under Sections 406, 420, 409, 120(b), and 34 of Indian Penal Code along with Sections 3, 4, 6, and 8 of Maharashtra Prevention of Malpractices at University, Board and other specified Examinations Act (amendment 1991) registered at cyber police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/health-dept-paper-leak-case-nhm-joint-director-s-police-custody-extended-with-new-evidence-101639414689288.html
13-12-2021||Pune||SPPU’s 119th convocation held||PUNE The 119th convocation ceremony of the Savitribai Phule Pune University (SPPU) was held online and offline in limited attendance at the main building of SPPU on Monday. State higher and technical education minister Uday Samant and Australian Consulate-General Peter Trusswell were the chief guests for the ceremony. “On this occasion vice-chancellor of SPPU Prof Nitin Karmalkar, registrar Praful Pawar, director, board of examinations and assessment Mahesh Kakade, deans Manohar Chaskar, Parag Kalkar, Anjali Kurne, Sanjeev Sonawane as well as members of the board of management and members of the Senate were present.In the year October and November 2020, a total of 3,806 students have been sent degrees by post by the university. Degrees were awarded to seven PhD holders on a representative basis at the event.  “A departmental office of professor training academy and Yashwantrao Chavan Maharashtra Open University will be set up in Pune ,” said Samant. He also congratulated SPPU for opening campuses in other countries.Peter Trusswell said, “As the world comes out from a period of great uncertainty, there will be countless new opportunities to create, innovate and do things differently. As you step into the professional world, no doubt that you will strive to turn your learnings into real-world and apply outcomes and solutions for a rapidly changing world. There have been over 9000 joint research publications between India and Australia since 2017. The two countries have similar challenges, on which joint research and study can take place.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/sppus-119th-convocation-held-101639414449884.html
13-12-2021||Pune||Minister Uday Samant backs offline lectures, exams||PUNE Maharashtra higher and technical education minister Uday Samant on Monday backed offline lectures and said that colleges charging high fees will face strict action. Samant was speaking at the 119th graduation ceremony of the Savitribai Phule Pune University (SPPU) “A clear order regarding college opening and conducting examinations have been given by the state government, students who are fully vaccinated will be allowed. We have option of both, online and offline examinations. As per the local conditions of the district, decision should be taken by the district collector. However, we must now move to conducting offline lectures as we cannot continue in online mode forever,” said Samant. “Due to the Covid pandemic the examinations were held online. Strict action will be taken against those spreading rumours about offline examinations being a permanent thing.” he added. Talking about the starting of university and college hostels he said, “We had taken the decision about reopening the university and college hostels and accordingly guidelines were also going to be issued soon. But, due to the new Omicron variant new guidelines will be issued after consulting with experts. It is the matter of the safety and security of the students,” he said. Many students have complained about being charged high fees from colleges, speaking on the matters, Samant said, “We have received various complaints and are working on it. If students are afraid to raise a complaint, their parents should come forward. A joint director level committee will be formed and enquiry will be done of each case. Strict action will be taken against the colleges if found guilty.” Paper leak case When asked about the current recruitment examinations of various departments being cancelled due to paper leak cases, Samant said, “We are aware that students are angry over the exams been canceled, but in the MHADA recruitment examination case the examination was cancelled keeping in mind the students benefit. However, it is necessary to make the recruitment examination system strong and full proof and each department ministers are working over it. Students will benefit when these recruitment exams are been held transparently.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/minister-uday-samant-backs-offline-lectures-exams-101639414269353.html
13-12-2021||Pune||Man arrested for impersonating cousin in SRPF recruitment exam in Pune||PUNE The Pune police on Sunday arrested a man for reportedly impersonating as his cousin brother for the recruitment exam of State reserve police force (SRPF) in Pune. The arrested man has been identified as Vishal Gabrusingh Bahure, 23, a resident of Jodwadi in Aurangabad while the police are on a lookout for a second accused in the case. “While checking the identification, the invigilator realised that the photo and the person appeared different. He asked for additional ID and Vishal was carrying all IDs of the person he was appearing on behalf of. However, he could not answer all questions asked by the vigilance team effortlessly. He fumbled when the team asked his name was and could not recreate the signature of the candidate,” said assistant police inspector (API) Somnath Padsalkar of Hadapsar police station. Bahure was appearing at the SRPF exam center at SM Joshi College in Malwadi area of Hadapsar. When the invigilator was convinced that Vishal was not who he was claiming to be, he was subjected to further inspection in which he was found with a Bluetooth device in his ears, according to the police. “The Bluetooth device was small in size and was not visible like normal Bluetooth earphones,” said API Padsalkar. A case under Sections 419 (personation), 420 (cheating), 468 (forgery), 471 (using forged as genuine), 511, 188 and 34 (common intention) of Indian Penal Code along with Section 7 of Maharashtra Prevention of Malpractices at University, Board and other specified Examinations Act, 1982 has been registered at Hadapsar police station. Another cheating case in Kothrud In another center of the same examination in Kothrud area of Pune, a candidate was found cheating in the SRPF Jamkhed group recruitment exam. The person has been identified as Ketan Vitthal Lakhwad, 24, a resident of Mambapurwadi in Khultabad area of Aurangabad. He was appearing for the exam at Shankarrao More Vidyalay in Kothrud. A flying squad of the police found the candidate using a mobile phone to look for answers to the questions. A similar case was registered at Kothrud police station against Lakhwad.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/man-arrested-for-impersonating-cousin-in-srpf-recruitment-exam-in-pune-101639414149554.html
13-12-2021||Lucknow||Kasganj alleged custodial death: HC seeks state govt reply on fast track courts for cases against police||The Allahabad high court on Monday directed the state government to file its reply (counter affidavit) in response to a PIL seeking establishment of fast track courts to deal with cases of alleged police atrocities in Uttar Pradesh in the wake of the alleged custodial death of 22-year-old man at a Kasganj police station in the state.The PIL suggested that the fast track courts should adjudicate upon FIRs, complaints and petitions filed against police officers in cases of custodial torture, death, rape and other such offences. It also called for the enforcement of various guidelines laid down by the Supreme Court in such matters.Hearing a PIL filed by People’s Union for Civil Liberties (PUCL), a division bench comprising Chief Justice Rajesh Bindal and Justice Piyush Agrawal passed the above order. According to petitioner, one Altaf was called in for questioning by the Uttar Pradesh Police and later found dead at the police station - Kotwali of Kasganj district on November 9, 2021.Senior advocate SFA Naqvi representing PUCL argued, “The death of Altaf and other such persons in suspicious circumstances in police custody is viewed by any person of ordinary prudence as an institutional killing.”“A high-powered committee, headed by a sitting or retired Judge of the Allahabad high court, must be set up to enquire into this case,” Naqvi said. The PIL requested the court to direct the central and state governments to install CCTV cameras in all police stations and other such offices of CBI, NIA etc across Uttar Pradesh as has already been directed by the apex court. It also sought a direction to duly equip police officers with body worn cameras and requisite technology for videography during investigations. The next date of hearing in the case will be fixed later.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/kasganj-alleged-custodial-death-hc-seeks-state-govt-reply-on-fast-track-courts-for-cases-against-police-101639413969774.html
13-12-2021||Pune||Home guard dies in hit-and-run after truck hits two-wheeler in Pune||PUNE A 32-year-old man working as a home guard was killed in hit-and-run in Nigdi area of Pimpri Chinchwad on Sunday afternoon. The deceased man has been identified as Tejas Omprakash Lele, 32, a resident of Malinagar in Vadgaon Maval area of Pune. He was riding a TVS Radeon registered in Pimpri Chinchwad. An unidentified truck rammed into the man and caused a head injury that led to his death, according to the police. A complaint in the matter has been lodged by the victim’s paternal cousin, according to the police. “The accident occurred on the bridge and there are no CCTV cameras in the area. The deceased person was travelling alone, so there is no witness to narrate the incident. We are trying to find out who the driver was,” said police sub-inspector Vikas Shelke of Nigdi police station who is investigating the case. A case under Sections 304(a), 279, and 427 of Indian Penal Code along with Sections 184, 132(1)(c), 119/177 of Motor Vehicle Act has been registered at Nigdi police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/home-guard-dies-in-hit-and-run-after-truck-hits-two-wheeler-in-pune-101639413910519.html
13-12-2021||Pune||To avenge teasing, two men kill transgender person in Pune||PUNE Two men were remanded to police custody by a local court in Pune for the murder of a transgender person in Talegaon Dhamdhere area of Pune. The deceased transgender person has been identified as Ashu alias Anish Ramanand Yadav, 23, a resident of Bajrangwadi area of Shirur, according to the police. The two arrested men have been identified as Yadur Thakur, 19, and his paternal cousin brother Dharmu Thakur, 20, both residents of Talegaon Dhamdhere and natives of Chattirsgarh, according to assistant police inspector (API) Nitin Atkare of Shikrapur police station who is investigating the case. The two worked as labourers in a private company. “The accused had consumed alcohol and were passing through the open ground which leads to their house. The transgender person used to tease them often, when they walked to and back from work. On Saturday afternoon, the two were walking when Yadav approached them and started teasing them while they were passing through the ground. In order to avenge the teasing, the Thakur brothers picked up a cement block and bludgeoned the transgender person to death,” said API Atkare. The men used a concrete block that is used for marking separation between two plots, according to the police. A case under Sections 302 (murder) and 201 (destruction of evidence) of Indian Penal Code has been registered at Shikrapur police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/to-avenge-teasing-two-men-kill-transgender-person-in-pune-101639413729270.html
13-12-2021||Ranchi||Jharkhand: Hemant government plans law against lynching||The Jharkhand government is planning to introduce a bill to curb the growing cases of lynching. The draft, Prevention of Mob Violence and Mob Lynching Bill,2021, which is yet to be cleared by the state Cabinet, proposes varying degree of jail term ranging from anywhere between three years to life imprisonment; apart from fines and attachment of properties for those found guilty of lynching. Two other states, Rajasthan and West Bengal have already enforced anti-lynching laws.According to the proposed draft bill, “...where the act leads to the victim suffering grievous hurt, shall be punished with imprisonment for life, or with imprisonment of either description for a term which may extend to 10 years, and with fine which shall not be less than ₹3 lakh and may extend up to ₹5 lakh...where the act leads to the death of the victim, shall be punished with rigorous imprisonment for life and with fine which shall not be less than ₹25 lakh, and the movable and immovable properties shall be attached.”Additionally, besides strict punishment, the draft bill also allows punishment for conspiracy or abetment or aides or attempts to lynch; punishment for obstructing legal process; punishment for dissemination of offensive material, and punishment for enforcing a hostile environment.“...Whoever contributes or enforces a hostile environment on a person or a group of persons shall be punished with imprisonment which may extend to three years and shall also be liable to a fine which shall not be less than ₹1 lakh and may extend up to ₹3 lakh,” the draft bill further reads.The bill also aims to put in place a top to bottom mechanism, with an Inspector General (IG) rank police officer to be appointed as nodal officers, with clearly laid out powers and duties and district magistrates ‘to prevent acts of lynching’ and ‘exercise authority against mobs’.Lynching became a major issue in the state ahead of the assembly polls in December 2019 after a series of such incidents were registered in Jharkhand, and the current dispensation, then in opposition, had made a poll promise to bring a law against the growing crime.The cases of lynching made national headlines when on June 17, 24-year-old Tabrez Ansari was allegedly tied to a pole and beaten to death by a mob at Dhatkidih village in Seraikela Kharsawan district on suspicion of theft. Ansari was purportedly seen in a video being forced to chant ‘Jai Shri Ram’ and ‘Jai Hanuman’. On June 22, he had succumbed to his injuries in judicial custody.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/jharkhand-hement-government-plans-law-against-lynching-101639412649679.html
13-12-2021||Patna||Bihar’s minimum temperature drops to 7°C||Residents in the state woke up to a cold morning as several places witnessed dip in temperature, said officials of Patna Meteorological Centre on Monday.The average maximum temperature remained 22°C while minimum temperature dropped to 10°C in the state.As per daily bulletin, Pusa in Samastipur remained the coldest in the state with the minimum temperature of 7°C. Patna recorded a maximum temperature of 24.2°C and minimum temperature of 9.4°C, both one notch below the season’s normal. Gaya’s minimum temperature remained at 8.1°C, Purnea 10.5°C and Munger 11.8 °C, two to three degrees below the season’s normal. MeT officials said that the minimum temperature in the state declined to 7°C for the first time this winter season. Visibility levels at several places plunged due to fog and mist with Gaya recording the lowest visibility up to 500 meters in the morning.Weathermen have also predicted that the minimum and maximum temperature will further dip by 2°C to 4°C this week.Elaborating on the weather mechanism, junior scientist Aarti Gupta, said, “As per the current numerical model, westerly wind is prevailing over the state at 1.5 km above mean sea level. Shallow to moderate rain in likely to occur at several places in the state. Maximum and minimum temperature in the state is likely to hover between 14°C to 10°C this week.”Meanwhile, residents shared that chill in air was felt since morning and majority of them had to take out their woollens.Shweta Rani, a resident near Bailey Road, said, “Despite sunshine, there was a chill in the air during the daytime. Winter has finally arrived.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/bihars-minimum-temperature-drops-to-7c-101639412469399.html
13-12-2021||Patna||Seven- year-old killed in tiffin bomb explosion||A seven-year-old boy was killed after a crude bomb kept in a tiffin box exploded near Makhdoom Shah Dargah ghat around 11.30am on Monday, police said This is third crude bomb explosion in the last one week in Bhagalpur’s Nathnagar. According to police, the incident took place when the boy found tiffin box comprising three steel containers from a garbage dump while playing. The bomb exploded as soon as the boy picked up the tiffin box; killing him on the spot. Prima facie evidence suggests that miscreants kept the bomb at a secluded place to ensure police did not discover it during a search operation conducted during the Panchayat election. A bomb disposal squad team reached the spot to collect residues of the explosive for investigation and defused more bombs kept inside tiffin boxes. The nature of the explosives is yet to be ascertained, police said. “The bomb exploded when the boy picked up the tiffin box and he died on the spot”, said Bhagalpur senior SP Nitasha Guriya, adding that police have lodged a case and have started a probe against a suspect. Bhagalpur SSP told HT that a criminal recently released from the jail could be involved in the incident and police conducted raids at his hideout. On December 9, an unidentified ragpicker was killed in an explosion near Nathnagar railway station between Bhagalpur-Patna railway sections. Superintendent of railway police (Jamalpur) Aamir Jawed constituted an SIT to crack the case. On December 11, two schoolchildren received minor injuries in crude bomb explosions which occurred at Momin Tola locality barely 500 metres from the Nathnagar railway station. Police said three children found an abandoned canister near the trash while playing there. When they tried to open the canister, it exploded, injuring the two..
13-12-2021||Patna||Customers need to produce Aadhaar to buy molasses in Bihar’s Supaul distt||In a bid to curb manufacturing of country-made liquor, the Supaul administration has issued strict guidelines to grocery store owners to monitor the sale of molasses (gur), which is largely used to make country-made liquor.Triveniganj sub-divisional magistrate (SDM) S Z Hasan, in a meeting with grocery store owners on December 7, has directed them to seek photocopy of Aadhaar card with mobile number from customers who intend to buy molasses from their shops. We have received intelligence inputs that molasses is used to make country-made liquor in some areas and hence we want to attack the supply chain,” Hasan said, adding, “Besides, keeping a tab on the sale of molasses, we have made a special team of officials and civilians to keep a watch over manufacturing of country-made liquor in rural areas.”He also cautioned the grocers against selling molasses without an aadhaar card and mobile number. “If caught selling molasses without aadhaar card and mobile number, stern action would be taken against them,” he said while instructing the marketing officer (MO) to monitor its sale and also asked them to hold a review meeting monthly with grocery shop owners.MO Shubham said, “We have report that country liquor is being prepared with molasses, white rice, and ammonium chloride (Nausadar). We hope that this directive will help check illegal trade.Kosi and Seemanchal areas are infamous for manufacturing country-made liquor as it is cheaper in comparison to Indian Made Foreign Liquor (IMFL) and a large number of migrant populations living in the two regions can afford it.Country-made liquor is still easily available in rural areas even after transportation and sale of mahua is banned after the total prohibition was enforced in Bihar in 2016.Prof Naresh Kumar Srivasatava who has conducted research on tribes in Seemanchal and Kosi regions said, “You can’t enforce a total ban by using force. Tribal people are honest to their tradition of manufacturing liquor from rice and molasses and they won’t give up easily.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/customers-need-to-produce-aadhaar-to-buy-molasses-in-bihar-s-supaul-distt-101639411929553.html
13-12-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai Congress moves HC against Uddhav govt over no nod to Rahul Gandhi's Dec 28 rally||The Mumbai Congress on Monday moved the Bombay high court against the local civic body and police for not giving permission to a rally to be addressed by party leader Rahul Gandhi on December 28 at Shivaji Park in the city.State unit president Bhai Jagtap, who filed the application, sought the court’s direction to the Uddhav Thackeray-led Maharashtra government on the matter. Hearing is expected in the matter on Tuesday.The Congress is a constituent of the Shiv Sena-led Maha Vikas Aghadi government in the state. Deputy chief minister and Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) leader Ajit Pawar had said if cases of the Omicron variant of Convid-19 continued to rise, the government would have to think about allowing the upcoming rally.According to a PTI report, Jagtap said an application was submitted to the state government in October 2021, seeking permission to hold the rally where Congress leaders Sonia and Rahul Gandhi have been invited to address the gathering. However, till date no decision has been taken on the application, the petition said.He later said, “We do not understand why permission is not given to us? If they are concerned about Covid-19, we have already told them in our letter that we will adhere to guidelines. Since there is not much time left, we had to approach the court for permission,” the Mumbai Congress chief was quoted as saying by news agency ANI.We don't understand why permission is not given to us? If they're concerned about Covid, we have already told them in our letter that we'll adhere to Covid guidelines. Since there's not much time left, we had to approach the court for permission:Bhai Jagtap, Mumbai Congress chief pic.twitter.com/pWdMV4C0UPThe plea has sought the HC to direct the state government to grant it permission to hold the public meeting and erect a temporary stage on one portion of the sprawling ground in central Mumbai. Jagtap's advocate Pradeep Thorat said the party has sought permission to use the park ground from December 22 to December 28 to hold a public meeting on the occasion of the 137th Foundation Day of the Indian National Congress.The plea said December 28 is a very important day in the history of the Congress as it is the party's foundation day.In 2010, the HC had declared the Shivaji Park area located in Dadar as a silence zone after a public interest litigation was filed by an NGO. The court had then said programmes can be held at the park only on select occasions - December 6 (death anniversary of Dr B R Ambedkar), May 1 (Maharashtra foundation day) and January 26 (Republic Day).However, the state government and the BMC (Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation) later carved out 45 days in a year to permit non-sporting activities in the iconic ground.It was further reported, the BMC has submitted its report to the state government on its recommendation on whether or not the Congress rally could be held at the venue."Since, the state government is the competent authority, the final decision has to be taken by it (government). Out of the 45 days marked for non-sporting activities, 11 days are kept for miscellaneous activities,” Thorat said. “The quota of 11 days is still pending this year,” Thorat said.(With inputs from agencies)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-congress-moves-hc-against-seeking-govt-nod-to-rahul-gandhi-s-dec-28-rally-101639411474711.html
13-12-2021||Mumbai||Palm Beach Road accident: SUV driver dies day after mishap||A day after the accident on Palm Beach Road, the driver of the SUV involved in the mishap succumbed on Monday. With this, the death toll has risen to two while four others are injured. The accident occurred on Sunday at around 3.15pm at Akshar Chowk, Seawoods. According to police, an auto rickshaw driver, heading from Seawoods to Vashi, jumped the signal. To avoid collision, the SUV with six people, going from Vashi to Belapur, applied sudden brake. In the process, it rolled over four to five times, killing one – Nagendra Singh (44) on the spot. Vijay Yadav (35), the driver, died on Monday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/palm-beach-road-accident-suv-driver-dies-day-after-mishap-101639411809697.html
13-12-2021||Mumbai||Respond to PIL for removal of national signs from PM CARES Fund: HC to Centre||The Bombay high court (HC) on Monday has sought a response from the Centre to the public interest litigation (PIL) seeking the removal of the title of Prime Minister, the national emblem and the national flag from the PM CARES Fund, as it is a private trust and the amount collected by it does not go to the Consolidated Fund of India. A division bench of chief justice Dipankar Datta and justice M S Karnik was hearing a PIL filed by Vikrant Chavan, Thane district president of the Indian National Congress, which sought to remove national emblems from the title and logo of the Prime Minister’s Citizen Assistance and Relief in Emergency Situations (CARES) Fund as it was a private trust. The bench was informed that the trust was formed on March 27, 2020 and though the PM and other ministers were trustees, it was not a government trust. The PIL stated that the usage violated the laws and rules governing the symbols and sought directions for removal of the same. The bench was informed that the trust had been soliciting and collecting funds and had collected ₹3,076.62 crore for relief work by using the emblems and title of the prime minister. “The respondent No.1 Trust undisputedly does not discharge any regal, governmental or sovereign functions. The Respondent No.1 Trust is not the offspring or the blood and bones or the voice and hands of the Government of India. In fact, it has been admitted position that Respondent No.1 is not Government of India fund and the amount collected by it does not go to the Consolidated Fund of India,” the petition stated. The petition also states that relevant provisions of the Emblems and Names (Prevention of Improper Use) Act, 1950, The Emblems and Names (Prevention of Improper Use) Rules,1982, The State Emblem of India (Prohibition of Improper use) Act, 2005 and The State Emblem of India (Regulation of Use) Rules, 2007 were being violated. Additional solicitor general Anil Singh sought two weeks time to take instructions to respond to the concerns raised in the PIL. However, the bench observed that it was an important matter and hence needed a reply on affidavit. Conjoint reading of the Act of 1950 with Rules of 1982 clearly indicates that use of names and emblems set out in the Schedule of the Act of 1950 is prohibited except in such cases and under such conditions prescribed by the Central government.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/respond-to-pil-for-removal-of-national-signs-from-pm-cares-fund-hc-to-centre-101639411629298.html
13-12-2021||Patna||Genome sequencing to start at Bihar’s IGIMS soon||In a bid to overcome delay in obtaining test reports related to the Omicron variant, the Bihar government will soon begin genome sequencing at Indira Gandhi Institute of Medical Sciences (IGIMS), said additional chief secretary (health) Pratyaya Amrit. “The lab at IGIMS is ready and we have been provided the necessary funds to start testing, Amrit said. Hindustan Times had reported on December 9 that lack of funds to buy reagents have forced IGIMS to stop next-generation sequencing (NGS), amid the Omicron threat.Chief minister Nitish Kumar on Monday said that genome sequencing for the Omicron variant is currently being done out of Bihar, due to which the reports are taking time to come. “We will start the genome sequencing in Bihar and for this IGIMS has been identified,” he said.Sharing information on the steps being taken amid the possibility of a third Covid wave in the state, the CM said, “The health department has been instructed to keep a close watch. Very few residents in the state are testing Covid positive, but people entering the state from other countries are testing Covid postive. Bihar government is on alert; amid the possibility of a third wave and proper arrangements have been made in all the hospitals. Meanwhile, common people also need to be alert.” Currently, the samples are being sent to the National Centre for Disease Control, New Delhi, the nearest mapped Indian SARS-CoV-2 genomics consortium (INSACOG) laboratory, for genomic sequencing to ascertain the strain of the Covid-19 virus. The report usually takes five to seven days to come.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/genome-sequencing-to-start-at-bihar-s-igims-soon-101639411449696.html
13-12-2021||Patna||Using Niti Aayog report, Bihar pitches for special status again||Highlighting the Niti Aayog’s Sustainable Development Goals (SDG) index, released last month, which adjudged Bihar as the worst performer and a backward state, chief minister Nitish Kumar on Monday once again made a fresh plea for a special status to the state. In the latest SDG index report, which uses parameters of health, education, environment and overall human development index, Bihar is ranked last.Addressing the media after his weekly Janata Darbar programme, Kumar said, “There is no harm in accepting that Bihar is a backward state. A lot has been done for the development of the state. The state has made progress in the last few years. Women have developed. Rioting has stopped. Niti Aayog says that Bihar is a backward state. That is why we are saying that Bihar should get a special status.”“We have done a lot of work for the development of Bihar since 2005. The state budget in 2004-05 was ₹23,875 crore and in 2020-21 it is 2,18,000 crore. The per capita income has increased to ₹7,914 in 2004-05 and to ₹50,735 per person by 2019-20. Area wise, Bihar is at number 12 among other states of the country, while population wise it is at number three in the country,” he added.Seeking Niti Aayog’s support to help Bihar get special status, the chief minister said,“If Niti Aayog says that Bihar is backward, then only the backward should be taken forward. If Bihar gets special status, then many problems will end. Niti Aayog means National Institute for Transforming India. You need to work for the upliftment of the poor in the state.”On Sunday, Bihar minister for planning and implementation, Bijendra Yadav wrote a fresh letter to Niti Aayog vice-chairman asserting that Bihar “fulfilled all the criteria” set for grant of special status.The minister’s letter follows Aayog’s recent report on multidimensional poverty index in which Bihar was placed at the bottom in the country. In his letter, the minister admitted that Bihar stood way below the national average when it came to indicators like per capita income, ease of living and human development.Yadav blamed the state of affairs on “peculiar problems” of “landlocked” Bihar which had a high density of population with scarce natural resources and was plagued by vicissitudes like drought and flood that affected more than half of its districts.In a special category state, the Centre-state funding of Centrally-sponsored schemes has a ratio of 90:10, unlike a share of 60:40 or 80:20 in other states.Former Bihar deputy CM and Rajya Sabha MP Sushil Kumar Modi had also expressed his displeasure over the Aayog’s report. “The Niti Aayog somehow prepared reports pertaining to education, health, road infrastructures and placed Bihar at the bottom. Its officials have opted for an old mechanism to evaluate things that are incorrect. They should consult the respective s. state governments and evaluate facilities by keeping in mind the development of the last 10 to 15 years,” said Modi.
13-12-2021||Delhi||Delhi pollution: Ban on construction, entry of trucks to continue until further orders, says Gopal Rai||Delhi environment minister Gopal Rai on Monday said the ban on construction activities in the national capital and entry of trucks, excluding CNG, e-trucks and those involved in essential services, would continue until further orders.Rai said this after a review meeting about the pollution situation in the city with several departments concerned.He further said air pollution levels in the city might improve later this week, as predicted by experts. “A review meeting was held today with all the departments regarding the air pollution situation for the past one week. The pollution level, as per the AQI, between December 1 and December 12 has been between 250 and 325. Experts have said the pollution level may increase on December 14, 15, 16 and after that, there is a possibility of improvement,” he was quoted as saying by news agency ANI.Also read | Delhi airport installs e-boarding gates. Here's how it will workThe minister said the education department has made a proposal regarding reopening of schools in the city and it would be forwarded to the Commission for Air Quality Management (CAQM).“The Environment Department has received a proposal that classes above 6th should be opened and classes above primary classes should also be opened from December 20. We are sending this proposal to the Commission for Air Quality Management as per the order of the Supreme Court,” he said.While suggestions have been sought by the government for resuming construction activities, it has also called a meeting on December 16 to discuss the issue, Rai said.“Entry of non-essential trucks will remain closed in Delhi as before. Suggestions have been sought from all departments regarding construction activities. After this, a meeting has been called again on December 16. Water sprinkling will continue as before,” he said.The Delhi government, in November, had temporarily halted construction activities in the city, closed down schools and suggested work from home for companies following worsening air quality conditions.Meanwhile, the Air Quality Index (AQI) in Delhi was recorded at 331 as of 4pm during the day, according to data from the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) and remained in the ‘very poor’ category.“Partially cloudy conditions and moderate mixing layer height (~ 1.0 - 1.5 km) are likely to keep air quality within ‘lower end of very poor’ for the next two days. From 15th onwards air quality is likely to improve due to relatively high wind speeds but within ‘poor’ or ‘lower end of very poor’ category,” the System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting And Research (SAFAR) said in its forecast for the city.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-pollution-ban-on-construction-entry-of-trucks-to-continue-until-further-orders-says-gopal-rai-101639410721367.html
13-12-2021||Mumbai||Bollywood actors Kareena Kapoor Khan and Amrita Arora test positive for Covid-19||MUMBAI: Bollywood actors Kareena Kapoor Khan and Amrita Arora on Sunday tested positive for Covid-19. Both have mild symptoms and are quarantined at home, according to information from the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC). The civic body said that Kapoor and Arora – both residents of Bandra – recently attended a private gathering organised by a friend following which they developed mild symptoms.Vinayak Vispute, assistant commissioner of the H/west ward (Bandra west area), said Monday afternoon, “Both actors underwent an RT-PCR test after they developed mild symptoms. They had recently attended a private gathering organised by another friend. We gathered information that this was a small gathering, and lasted for a little over two hours. All other guests have been asked to take the test for Covid-19. The actors have shown full cooperation with the BMC.”After Kapoor and Arora tested positive on Sunday, the civic body sealed their homes as per protocol. The RT-PCR tests of both actors were carried out on Saturday. Approximately 15 high-risk contacts and 15 close contacts of the actors have been traced, and their RT-PCR tests are being carried out. Tracing of further contacts is underway.Suresh Kakani, additional municipal commissioner in charge of BMC’s public health department, said, “Both actors had already taken both doses of their Covid-19 vaccine.”The BMC will monitor the actors’ health conditions routinely to check if both need to be hospitalised. “At present, we have asked them to be in home quarantine,” said an officer.He added, “As per the information with the civic body, there is no history of travel in both cases. The BMC will go through all their contacts and check if anyone has any international travel history. In that case, the respective samples will be collected and sent for genome sequencing to check for Omicron.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/bollywood-actors-kareena-kapoor-khan-and-amrita-arora-test-positive-for-covid19-101639410069245.html
13-12-2021||Mumbai||Defamation case: Javed Akhtar seeks non-bailable warrant against Kangana Ranaut||Mumbai: Lyricist Javed Akhtar moved an application before the Chief Metropolitan Magistrate court (CMM) at Andheri for issuing a non-bailable warrant (NBW) against Kangana Ranaut, as the actor failed to appear before the court. Akhtar has filed the defamation case against Ranaut in November 2020, alleging that she made defamatory and baseless comments about him in a television interview. Javed Akhtar’s lawyer Jay Bharadwaj pointed out to the court that while Kangana claimed to be unwell, the updates on her Instagram handle on November 15 clearly shows that she was actively involved in the shootings of her upcoming films. He handed out printouts from the actress’s Instagram handle. He added that in the last few hearings, Ranaut sought exemption from appearing in person on two grounds. One was that she was unwell and suffering from high temperature and body ache and the other ground was that she was in the process of challenging before the Chief Metropolitan Magistrate court, the order by which her application of transfer of the case from 10th court in Andheri to some other court was rejected. It added that on basis of the statements made by the actress’ counsel, the court adjourned the matter in the last hearings to December 13, for framing of charges. The plea said, “Kangana has not filed any appeal challenging the order passed by the learned Chief Metropolitan Magistrate court.” The plea further states that “it can be clearly deciphered from the conduct of the accused that from the time of issuance of process, the accused has been deploying all possible tactics to cause inordinate delays in the matter and at the same time been making false and incorrect statements before this court. In other words, the present case could not proceed further after the issuance of the process owing to the wilful and deliberate absence of the accused solely designed to derail the proceedings and to cause incalculable hardships to Akhtar.” Akhtar further contended that the magistrate court had already accommodated Ranaut on the last three dates and urged the court to issue a non-bailable warrant against her “in the interest of justice” to secure her presence before the court. Metropolitan magistrate R R Khan adjourned the matter to January 4 for hearing the parties, after Ranaut’s counsel filed a reply to the plea. The court has also directed her counsel to keep Ranaut present before the court on the next date of hearing.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/defamation-case-javed-akhtar-seeks-non-bailable-warrant-against-kangana-ranaut-101639406288913.html
13-12-2021||Chandigarh||Navjot Singh Sidhu named Congress’ Punjab election committee chairman||The Congress on Monday constituted a 29-member state election committee in Punjab to be headed by party president Navjot Singh Sidhu. Assembly election to the state is due early next year.“Congress president has approved the proposal of the formation of the Pradesh Election Committee of Punjab Pradesh Congress Committee, as follows, with immediate effect,” the party said in a statement signed by Congress general secretary KC Venugopal.Hon'ble Congress President has approved the proposal of the formation of Pradesh Election Committee of Punjab Pradesh Congress Committee, as follows, with immediate effect. pic.twitter.com/npMuzcA1AzPunjab chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi has been appointed as a member in the committee. Also, all Lok Sabha and Rajya Sabha MPs and all ministers in the Punjab government have been appointed as members.The party has also appointed presidents and working presidents to 28 district-level committees in the run-up to the assembly election.On December 6, the party constituted an election screening committee, comprising Ajay Maken, Chandan Yadav and Krishna Allavaru, with state in-charge Harish Choudhary, Channi, Sidhu, Sunil Jakhar and all Congress secretaries in-charge of Punjab as ex-officio members.Besides, the party appointed Ambika Soni as chairperson of the election coordination committee, Sunil Jhakar as chairperson of election campaign committee and Pratap Singh Bajwa as chairperson of manifesto committee the same day. All the three leaders were also appointed members of the state election committee.Former CM Rajinder Kaul Bhattal, party MLAs Raminder Singh Awala, Balbir Singh Sidhu, Shyam Sunder Arora, Rana Gurmit Singh Sodhi, Sadhu Singh Dharamsot, Ajaib Singh Bhatti and Navtej Singh Cheema have been named in the latest panel.Other members included HS Hanspal, Mohinder Singh Kay Pee, KL Sharma, Laal Singh Sr, Kuljit Singh Nagra, Sukhvinder Singh Danny Bandala, Pawan Goyal, Gurpreet Kangar, Hamid Masih, Raj Kumar Chabbewal, Balbir Rani Sodhi, Barinder Dhillon, Akshay Sharma and Nirmal Kaira.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/navjot-singh-sidhu-named-congress-punjab-election-committee-chairman-101639405701554.html
13-12-2021||Other||Missing person’s skeleton found in Nainital forests after 4 years||A 42-year-old man’s skeleton was found in Tanda forest in Haldwani area of Nainital district in Uttarakhand on Sunday. The man went missing four years ago after he come from Bageshwar district to meet his sister in Nainital, officials said. “We found an Aadhaar card and a canteen card near the skeleton that we found in the forest area on Sunday. These two cards identified him and we contacted his relatives. They came and took the skeleton for the last rites. However, the forensic team collected the deceased’s sample for the DNA test to ascertain the identity without any doubt,” said Manoj Kumar, in-charge of Transport Nagar police outpost in Haldwani. The deceased was identified as Harish Chandra Joshi of Bageshwar. When police contacted his relatives on the basis of the mobile number mentioned on the card, police learnt that the deceased came to Bindukhatta, a village under Lalkuan police station in Nainital district, around four years ago and went gone missing. A missing report was registered with Pithoragarh and Lalkuan police stations. “According to his relatives, he was an employee of Border Road Organisation (BRO) in Pithoragarh,” said Kumar. According to police, some women of Rampur road area in Haldwani were collecting fodder in Tanda forest when they saw a skeleton of a man and informed police.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/missing-person-s-skeleton-found-in-nainital-forests-after-four-years-101639405390380.html
13-12-2021||Mumbai||2 new cases of Omicron in Maharashtra; state's tally rises to 20||Two new cases of the Omicron Covid-19 variant have been found in Maharashtra, the health department noted on Monday, adding that with this, the total number of such cases in the western state has risen to 20, the highest in the country.Also Read | China reports 1st Omicron case, outbreak of Delta subvariantOne patient each was detected in Pune and Latur, the health department further said.“Two new Omicron variant cases were detected in Maharashtra. One case was detected in Latur and the other in Pune. With the fresh cases, the total number of Omicron cases went to 20,” a government bulletin said.The confirmation of two fresh cases has further pushed the nationwide count to 40. Besides Maharashtra, Omicron patients have been found in five states and two Union territories (Delhi and Chandigarh). While nine infections have been reported from Rajasthan, Karanataka and Gujarat have reported three each, followed by two in Delhi. One case each has been reported from Kerala, Andhra Pradesh and Chandigarh.Also Read | Omicron cases in India at 38; 6 states and 2 Union territories report infectionsMaharashtra on Monday saw a drop in its daily Covid-19 infections and related deaths, with 569 people testing positive for the virus and five more succumbing due to it, as against 704 and 16, respectively, from a day ago. The state also logged 498 new recoveries, down from 699 on December 12.Its cumulative case tally stands at 6,644,452, including 6,493,002 recoveries and 141,264 fatalities.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-confirms-2-new-cases-of-omicron-state-s-tally-rises-to-20-101639404731407.html
13-12-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra did well to tackle second wave, should not let guard down: HC||Mumbai: With the increase in Omicron cases causing uncertainty and worry among people, the Bombay high court (HC) on Monday said that they don’t want a repeat of the dark days, referring to the deadly second wave of Covid-19. The HC also praised the efforts of the Maharashtra government to control the second wave. “We have no hesitation that Maharashtra was a pioneer in tackling Covid-19. Several courts in some states are still not open (for physical hearings). Our collective efforts have succeeded,” said the division bench of chief justice Dipankar Datta and justice M S Karnik. This was done as part of the hearing of a bunch of Public Interest Litigations (PIL) related to streamlining the vaccination process, provision of certificates and providing medical help for senior citizens, persons with disabilities. The court urged everyone to remain cautious, “Last year, we had limited knowledge about Covid-19, but during the second wave, we saw it become deadlier. However, we let our guard down and witnessed a difficult time. We don’t want a repeat of the dark days. We must not let our guard down. The union and state, everyone has to act hand in hand. We hope the new year brings in a new beginning and we never see a repeat of April 2021.”In the PIL filed by activist Feroze Mithiborwala and Yohan Tengra wherein they challenged the state government’s decision to permit only fully vaccinated persons to travel on local trains and visit public places, the court was informed that the decision violated the fundamental rights of the citizens and hence directions should be issued to permit all citizens to move unconditionally. Responding to the PIL additional solicitor general Anil Singh submitted that the centre had no objection to the acceptance of the demands of the petitioners if the state government was willing to accept it. Thereafter the bench directed advocate general Ashutosh Kumbhakoni for the state to respond to the PIL’s by Tuesday and posted further hearing to Wednesday, December 15.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-did-well-to-tackle-second-wave-should-not-let-guard-down-hc-101639404548798.html
13-12-2021||Pune||MSRTC’s Pune staff remain resolute on strike; Anil Parab deadline ignored||PUNE Last week state transport minister Anil Parab issued a December 13 ultimatum to Maharashtra State Transport Corporation (MSRTC) workers still on strike, after which severe disciplinary action was threatened.However, on Monday, only four workers who were on strike rejoined work in Pune. A total of 1,250 workers of the 4,200 workers in Pune division have resumed work. This has affected bus operations as most staff who have rejoined are from the workshops and administrative departments. Parab had warned protesting workers of action under Maharashtra Essential Services Maintenance Act (MESMA) and other legal norms. Workers rejoining were assured that suspension orders will be revoked, however, workers on strike in the Pune division have remained resolute. For over a month MSRTC workers and unions are protesting various demands. A Kruti Samiti of unions was formed to have a conversation with the state government. The main demand of merging the MSRTC into he state government was compromised and hence the srike. Private tourist bus associations have come forward to support the state government with 2,000 off their buses on the roads, operating from ST stands. “Around 1,250 workers have joined work in Pune division and most of them are from workshop and administrative departments. Pf the 11 depots in Pune division, the ST bus operations from Daund, Indapur, Baramati and Bhor have started to some extent and from Swargate and Wakdewadi ST stands contractor-operated buses are running. Until now, we have suspended 488 workers of which 66 workers rejoined. The number is less to start bus operations in Pune division,” said MSRTC Pune divisional controller Ramakant Gaikwad. Protesting workers are firm on their stand. Kiran Mhatre, a driver from Pune division said, “Our fight is for justice and we will continue the strike till demand of merger is fulfilled. Even we are suffering a lot due to this strike, but this needs to be understood by the state government. If they want us to die like this protesting then we are ready for it, but won’t take the strike back.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/msrtcs-pune-staff-remain-resolute-on-strike-anil-parab-deadline-ignored-101639403828675.html
13-12-2021||Chandigarh||Reminiscing unforgettable moments of nature’s bounty||The other day, I was passing by my native place, Ropar, while travelling to Amritsar on official duty. Overwhelmed by nostalgia to catch a glimpse of the outskirts of the nondescript town, I asked my driver to head straight instead of turning left to the bypass that touches Aasron, circumventing the town. I migrated to Chandigarh in 1985 with my wife as we had joined government service. Thereafter, we settled down in Mohali after constructing a house and my connection with our family roots drifted into oblivion. Our ancestral house was merely a documentary proof of domicile. The house, once our permanent residence, was built by my grandfather after the family was uprooted from Rawalpindi during the turmoil of the Partition in 1947. After the death of my grandparents in the late ’80s, visiting our native town, being my birthplace also, became a distant dream. Our grandparent’s house, which still holds their legacy of values, started crumbling with every passing day as most of the time it remained shut. A few years ago, I convinced my father to get it repaired as it beholds the saga of our forefathers’ harrowing ordeal in the post-Partition era. Finally, I got it refurbished with basic amenities to make it livable, after realising its monumental value to act as a link between the past and the present progeny. Several childhood memories are still etched afresh on my mind about this historic town, being the first sites of the Indus Valley Civilisation. I am reminded of the good old days when we as kids played cricket on the mound amid ruins in Ropar, one of the Harappan sites. Today, it is in sheer neglect as cow dung cake pathis stuck on the walls is a common sight. The wetland hosts a vibrant natural habitat, particularly at the Ropar headworks on the Sutlej river, where thousands of migratory birds flock together from Central Asia as the winter chill sets in. Unmindful of the stress during student life, we were a group of four friends, Ravi, Bali, Kirpal and me. We would take refuge on the banks of the Sutlej to study for the exams. Being in the lap of nature was an exhilarating yet tranquilising experience in itself for us. It helped us tide over the examination jitters. Going down memory lane, I recall how a stroll early in the morning or late in the evening in summer and winter along the Sirhind Canal was a popular pastime of local residents of all ages. A cursory look at the precincts of the local government college still reminds me of the time spent there while pursuing graduation in arts in the company of my class fellows, including the late Punjabi folk singer Surjit Bindrakhia, who often offered us tea and samosas in the college canteen to seek our audience for his favourite Punjabi hit songs in typical long Hek, which would leave us spellbound. Unfortunately, most of my friends and acquaintances have already left this place with the passage of time to pursue their goals and careers. A few went abroad in search of greener pastures. The handful left here are not accessible for want of their whereabouts despite digital platforms, such as WhatsApp, Facebook, Instagram, and Twitter in vogue nowadays. Alas! Not much has changed since I left this blissful town almost four decades ago except its panoramic beauty with diverse fauna and flora along the Sutlej river that still bewitches one and all. In the heart of hearts, I still yearn to visit this place blessed with nature’s bounty, far from the madding crowd and indeed a panacea for all ills. opinder.lamba@gmail.com The writer is the additional director, information and public relations, Punjab||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/reminiscing-unforgettable-moments-of-nature-s-bounty-101639403648815.html
13-12-2021||Pune||Covid: Pune ZP sets up 2nd-dose drive to reach pending rural beneficiaries||PUNE After deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar warned against deliberately delaying the second dose of the anti-Covid vaccine, the Pune Zilla Parishad (ZP) has devised a plan to trace eligible citizens due for a second dose, but wwho haven’t taken it yet. Officials are planning to adopt personal communication, home visits and awareness campaigns by local public representatives to encourage eligible citizens to take the second dose. Four tehsils - Baramati, Daund, Indapur, and Bhor have administered second doses to less than 50% of the eligible population. Deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar said that if people don’t cooperate and take the second dose then a “strict decision” will be taken. “In rural parts 400,000-500,000 are due for second dose. As per our observation, 90% of people get the second dose within 84-91 days from the first. Also, we had conducted special vaccination drives through CSR between August 15 and September 15. The supply of government vaccination had also improved. So naturally, now the number of people due for the second dose is higher,” said Ayush Prasad, CEO Pune ZP. Now, ZP is going to focus on those who haven’t got a second dose post 91 days of the first dose. Explaining the five step-plan the ZP CEO said: “The list of beneficiaries will be drawn from CoWin. They will be contacted on phone. If they are not reachable then ASHA workers will be sent to their homes. Community Health Officers will also be sent for visits and awareness will be created through local public representatives such as sarpanches. Media is also playing a crucial role as coverage related to the Omicron variant is widely given publicity.” A total of 76% of the eligible population in Pune Municipal Corporation limits has received the second dose; 66% of the eligible population in Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation limits has received the second dose; and 59% of the eligible population in the rural parts has got the second dose. Earlier, while speaking after the weekly Covid review meeting last Friday, deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar had expressed disappointment over laxity among citizens in taking the second dose of the Covid vaccine. He had warned if people don’t cooperate in a week then strict decisions would be taken against those deliberately delaying the second dose.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/covid-pune-zp-sets-up-2nd-dose-drive-to-reach-pending-rural-beneficiaries-101639403469976.html
13-12-2021||Pune||Ex-gratia for Covid victims: 7,973 applications from Pune district||PUNE After the state government launched a website on December 1 for Covid victims seeking ex-gratia payments, as many as 7,973 applications have been submitted from Pune district, till Sunday. According to district officials, currently the work of processing these applications is underway. As per public health department records, of the 19,736 Covid deaths that have been registered in Pune district till December 12, kin of victims have been asked to apply online for financial assistance of ₹50,000 per victim. Of the 7,973 applications from Pune district, 3,915 are from Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) and 1,924 are from Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC), whereas 2,134 are from the rural parts. “The number of Covid deaths in the urban parts is higher. Currently, these applications are being processed. It is a continuous process. In the coming days the number of applications will increase,” said Vitthal Banote, district disaster management officer. According to officials, disbursement of the ex-gratia amount hasn’t yet been done in the district. The state government is continuously seeking feedback from district authorities on the functioning of the website. Senior officials from the state relief and rehabilitation department have been conducting meetings with district disaster management authorities to discuss improvements and facilitation of the applications to be processed. As per officials, saved data on the website has to be categorised and verified properly. “Even after the application gets successfully submitted on the website, some glitches were observed. The work to remove the flaws has been continuously going on. Also, there are some instances that a Covid patient from another district has passed away in Pune district and applications have been filed from both of districts. Proposer scrutiny is also necessary before approving an application,” said a senior official from the district administration, requesting anonymity. There have been a total of 141,259 deaths due to Covid in the state so far. The most number deaths have been recorded in Pune district at 19,736. In compliance of the Supreme Court order, the state administration has asked every district administration to constitute a grievance redressal committee (GRC) which can be approached by the next of kin of the deceased Covid patients if any problem is encountered in getting the ex-gratia assistance of ₹50,000. Covid victims: applications received for ex-gratia PMC - 3,915 PCMC – 1,924 Rural – 2,134 Total – 7,973||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/exgratia-for-covid-victims-7-973-applications-from-pune-district-101639403108684.html
13-12-2021||Chandigarh||BSP's Satish Chandra Misra in Punjab on 3-day visit, to hold talks with Akali Dal brass||Bahujan Samaj Party’s (BSP) national general secretary Satish Chandra Misra announced on Monday that he is on a three-day visit to poll-bound Punjab to hold meetings with leaders of the Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD), with which the party, headed by former Uttar Pradesh chief minister Mayawati, has entered into an alliance for next year’s assembly elections in the border state.
13-12-2021||Mumbai||SUV flips trying to avoid hitting auto rickshaw that jumped red light; 1 dead||NAVI MUMBAI: A speeding sports utility vehicle (SUV) flipped four times when the driver swerved sharply and jammed the brakes to avoid crashing into an auto rickshaw in Navi Mumbai on Sunday afternoon. One person travelling in the SUV died and two others were injured, police said.Police said the accident took place at 3.15pm near Akshar chowk of Palm Beach road. The auto rickshaw driver who jumped a red light received minor injuries. He slipped out of the hospital after being administered first aid, a police officer from NRI coastal police station said.The dead man has been identified as Nagendra Singh, 44. He and two other injured, Vijay Yadav, 35, and Sarvesh Mishra, 40, were in Mumbai for a visit and borrowed a friend’s SUV. There were six people in the SUV when the accident took place. Nagendra Singh, the man who died, was in the middle seat.“We came to know that the auto rickshaw driver sustained minor injuries and was treated at a hospital and left after first aid... He is from Panvel,” the police officer said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/suv-flips-trying-to-avoid-hitting-auto-rickshaw-that-jumped-red-light-1-dead-101639399268490.html
13-12-2021||Other||Delhi govt suggests reopening schools, colleges||Delhi environment minister Gopal Rai on Monday said the Kejriwal government will be sending a submission to the Commission for Air Quality Management (CAQM) in the National Capital Region (NCR) and its adjoining areas, suggesting the reopening of schools for children from sixth grade onwards and colleges in the capital with immediate effect, while also suggesting schools for primary school children up to fifth grade to be reopened from December 20 onwards. Rai said the Delhi government will be continuing the ban on entry of diesel and petrol trucks into Delhi until further directions are issued, however, it will be holding a review meeting for the ban on construction activities on December 16 to hear pleas from agencies for possible exemptions to be given before submitting a list to CAQM. “Delhi’s air quality has started to improve and the situation is not as severe as it was post-Diwali. Delhi’s air quality levels between December 1 and December 12 have been hovering between 250 and 300 and therefore, a review meeting with all the departments was held today (Monday) to analyse the possible measures that can be taken around the restrictions imposed to curb air pollution,” said Rai, while addressing a press conference on Monday.The minister said a proposal was sent by the education department, which will be sent to CAQM through Delhi’s environment department. The Commission is expected to hold a review meeting later this week to decide when and how to lift the existing curbs on air pollution that have been imposed across NCR, including the closure of schools and colleges, ban on construction activities and the closure of some thermal power plants, among other restrictions.On Friday, the Supreme Court directed the CAQM to decide on relaxing the restrictions imposed within a week time, noting that air quality had ‘started improving’ in the region. A CAQM official, however, said they too were listening to applications for possible exemptions to be given to various industries, with a meeting to decide relaxation to be taken later in the week. “All such applications will be analysed and the Supreme Court has given us a week’s time to look at the best way to reopen. A decision will be taken accordingly,” said the official, speaking on condition of anonymity. For construction activities, Rai said the government met several construction agencies on Monday as well, however, the decision to exempt them will also lie with the Commission. “We have asked these agencies to write to CAQM, but we will also be holding a detailed review on December 16 at 12 pm, where agencies can submit reasons for a possible exemption to resume construction work. We will then be sharing this with CAQM,” Rai added.The minister said other campaigns to control pollution locally will continue in Delhi, with 6,953 inspections carried out so far as part of the anti-dust campaign. Out of these, 597 locations were issued a notice, with fines of ₹1.65 crore imposed so far. “As part of the open-burning campaign too, we have inspected 16,580 sites so far, with 2,490 notices and a total fine of ₹46.96 lakh issued so far,” the minister said, adding that agencies in Delhi will also continue to sprinkle water on roads.Rai said as part of the Green Delhi app, 6,975 complaints had been received so far by the Delhi government since its launch on October 5, with 5,686 (81 percent) resolved. “Our campaign against polluting cars has meant 19.5 lakh cars have been inspected this winter season and around 49,000 cars have also been fined for not having a valid PUC certificate,” he added....||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/delhi-govt-suggests-reopening-schools-colleges-101639398969499.html
13-12-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra readies policy to compensate fishers affected by development projects||Mumbai: The state government has prepared a draft policy for compensation of fisherfolk affected by development projects with six broad recommendations including directing project proponents (state or private organisations in charge of a project) to pay 2% of their total project cost toward compensation to fishers affected by the project.This comes in response to a petition filed in the Bombay high court (HC) by the Mariaayi Machhimaar Sahakari Sanstha Maryadit – a registered fishworkers cooperative based in Vashi – on behalf of the fishing community from Vashi, Juhu, Koparkhairane, Ghansoli and Diva villages. The petitioner had claimed compensation for the fishermen, contending that they were inhabitants of the Thane creek area and their customary right to fish in the creek was adversely affected by the construction of the third Thane Creek bridge (TCB-3), a proposed six-lane bridge on the Sion-Panvel highway which will connect Mumbai with the mainland at Navi Mumbai. The policy document prepared by a committee under the department of fisheries includes providing “unique smart identification cards” renewable every three years (in addition to the already existing IDs provided by the fisheries department) and creating a fresh database of subsistence fishers in the state. Hindustan Times has seen a copy of the draft policy.“The state has a database of commercial fishers to some extent and traditional fishers to certain extent, however there is complete lack of data on subsistence fishers who are poor and unorganised fishers who need more care due to their fragility,” the document stated and recommended that all the proponents of infrastructure projects deposit a sum equal to 2% of the total project cost with the fisheries department for rehabilitation of fisherfolk. Details around this proposed regulation are presently unclear and “will be decided later”, the draft policy stated.A division bench of justices SJ Kathawalla and Milind Jadhav of the Bombay HC on August 12 directed the Maharashtra government to frame a general policy for compensation “not only for fishermen, but for compensating any community whose customary rights to carry out an activity for their livelihood is impacted by government infrastructure projects.”Subsequently, on October 11 the state constituted a 23-member committee to look into the matter. In the preface of the policy document, dated November 29, the committee wrote, “There are a lot of projects going on in Maharashtra state being implemented by the government or other agencies like MMRDA, MSRDC, MCGM, CIDCO, MMRC, JNPT, NHAI, Railways, MMB, ONGC etc… All these projects demand to mitigate the risk of affecting fishing activities, therefore affecting the livelihood of the fishers.”The draft policy also recommended including a fresh census of shipping vessels, mandatory prior social and technical impact assessment exercises before commencement of development projects, setting up a standard operation procedure (SOP) to mitigate its impact and setting up grievance redressal committees (at the regional, district and state level) for fishers, and mandatory baseline surveys on quality and quantity of fishing catch in a project affected area prior to construction work.Fisherfolk said that stressing on a provision of compensation instead of safeguarding their intergenerational right to carry out a traditional livelihood is disappointing. Devendra Tandel, president of the Akhil Maharashtra Machhimaar Kruti Samiti (AMMKS), said such a move would not adequately address the community’s concerns.“This policy is not acceptable to us, because it does not consult us. There is not even a single member of the fishing community who has been taken into the deliberations, let alone members who represent a good cross section of the community. There are also several aspects of this policy which are contrary to what it sets out to do. For example, social impact studies have been mandated by the project proponents themselves, which is a huge conflict of interest. Second, the method to calculate compensation for project affected fisherfolk assumes that only one member of each family earns an income, which is not true,” Tandel said.“In Palghar district’s Kopran and Akkarpatti villages, fishers have been displaced by the Tarapur power station and in Raigad’s Uran, people have been displaced by the JNPT port. Whole generations have been kept from practicing their traditional livelihoods, on the backs of promises of modernity and better living which were never received. If the committee is unwilling to learn from the state’s past mistakes, where does that leave us?” Tandel asked.A senior officer in the fisheries department seeking anonymity, however, said, “The High Court will decide whether or not the draft policy is suitable. Besides, this is only a draft and will be further revised based on Cabinet discussions. The draft policy has not yet been cleared by the state government. As far as consulting the community goes, we have invited, received and considered all the comments we have received from fishing societies and fisherfolk.”The Maharashtra State Road Development Corporation began constructing the new TCB-3 in December 2020, with a deadline of three years. It will help ease traffic volume on the existing TCB-2, built in 1997.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-readies-policy-to-compensate-fishers-affected-by-development-projects-101639397289048.html
13-12-2021||Gurugram||Gurugram: 7 booked for snatching ₹2 lakh from store manager, suspects on the run||Police booked seven persons on Saturday for allegedly snatching ₹2 lakh and assaulting the manager of an automobile company store in Sushant Lok Phase 1 on December 8, said officials on Sunday.The manager — identified as Abhishek Singh, 30 — was returning home in Gurugram’s Islampur village on December 8 when a group of men intercepted him and hit him with a hammer.The victim said on Saturday that he was returning home after collecting a payment of ₹2 lakh from a person (details not shared) in Sector 71 around 7pm on December 8, when two men — identified as Vishvas alias Vishu, and Hitesh alias Tillu — and five other unidentified persons intercepted him and hit him near the Fazilpur crossing. “They hit a hammer on my head, and I collapsed. When the suspects saw that some passersby were coming to my rescue, they snatched ₹2 lakh and a cellphone from me and fled the spot,” Singh said.Passersby took the victim to the Civil Hospital in Gurugram Sector 10, and informed the police about the incident. When a police team from the Badshahpur police station reached the hospital, Singh was not in a condition to record his statement. On the basis of a complaint filed by Singh, a case was registered against the seven suspects under Indian Penal Code (IPC) sections 148 (rioting, armed with deadly weapon),149 (unlawful assembly guilty of offence committed in prosecution of common object),323 (assault) and 379B (snatching with force) at the Badshahpur police station on Saturday. No arrests have been made in the case so far.Dinkar (goes by first name), station house officer (SHO) of Badshahpur police station, said, “We have formed police teams to arrest all the absconding suspects, and investigate all the angles in the case.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/gurugram-7-booked-for-snatching-2-lakh-from-store-manager-suspects-on-the-run-101639396328170.html
13-12-2021||Other||Gurugram: One arrested for attack on egg seller, his relatives||An egg seller and his two relatives were allegedly assaulted on Saturday evening by two customers after an argument over the payment at a bus stand in Pathredi village of Bilaspur. One of the suspects was arrested later, police said, adding that the suspects also fired in the air in order to flee from the spot. According to police, one of the suspects was caught by the people present on the spot while he was trying to flee after firing two rounds of gunshots. The suspect was identified as Ashok Kumar, a resident of Hasanpur village in Bilaspur.The egg seller, Pawan Kumar, a resident of Pathredi, said that on Saturday around 7pm, two men attacked him for demanding money for four eggs. “I just asked the two men to pay for the eggs they ate, following which they started arguing with me and threatening me for life. Hearing the noise, my uncle, who runs a mobile phone shop nearby, and my cousin came to my rescue,” he said. Pawan said when my uncle and cousin questioned the two men, one of them picked the knife from my cart and attacked them. Jai Prakash, station house officer of Bilaspur police station, said that the suspects attacked two people with knife and threatened them for life. “As soon as people started gathering, they tried to flee and took out a countrymade pistol and fired two rounds in the air. One of the suspects was caught by the public,” he said.  “The second suspect is still at large and raids are being conducted for his arrest,” said the SHO.A case under sections 285 (negligent conduct with respect to fire or combustible matter), 323 (assault), 506 (criminal intimidation) , and 34 (common intention) of the Indian Penal Code and relevant sections of the Arms Act was registered against the two suspects.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/gurugram-one-arrested-for-attack-on-egg-seller-his-relatives-101639396029475.html
13-12-2021||Pune||Monday Musings: Another examination but with the same script||PUNE The original script is the same with a bit of tweaking. Government plans to fill up various posts in Maharashtra Housing and Area Development Authority (MHADA). More than 2.75 lakh candidates aspire to appear for the exam originally scheduled on December 12, 15, 19 and 20 for the jobs under class A, B and C.The state government outsource work to a private firm. However, an individual for the same firm along with two others is found to be involved in the paper leak. This forces government – at the last moment – to defer the examination.For the past two years, this story is being repeated with changes only in the jobs and the department they come under. Instead of winning praise to initiate massive exercises to fill up a large number of posts, the government has come under fire from aspirants for the mess it has created. But the lessons seem to have not been learnt.In the latest case, the examination was to be held all over Maharashtra and the private firm GA Software Technologies Private Limited was assigned the work of conducting the test by organising logistical support.Hours before the candidates were to reach the exam centre, it was cancelled after police suspected that the paper had been leaked.The director of GA Software Technologies Pritesh Deshmukh and two agents Santosh Harkle and Ankush Harkle had come to Vishrantwadi in Pune last night to deliver exam papers. Police caught them red-handed, according to Pune police commissioner Amitabh Gupta.Outsourcing the work related to conducting exams to private agencies isn’t uncommon at the government level. The main aim of any government is to hold such exercises smoothly, maintain integrity, and ensure fair evaluation without any interference. However, neither of these is being achieved.In an earlier case, the state government had to reschedule the health department examination at the eleventh hour as the private company assigned with conducting the job expressed it was not fully prepared. When the exam was rearranged, many aspirants faced issues that threatened to bar them from appearing for it.When the exam was finally conducted, it turned out that the question paper was already leaked with senior officials of the health department suspected to be involved. The police arrested 14 persons including the joint director, National Health Mission, and Latur health department’s chief admin officer.The government in both cases have faced an embarrassing situation. But more importantly, the entire process in both instances, have caused immense mental trauma to aspirants who have been preparing for these posts. Such instances have only diminished their hope in the entire process when jobs are shrinking in the government sector and unemployment is increasing.The interesting part is youth wings or of various political parties’ students, outfits have been silent on the issue. The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), which is in opposition has accused the government of mismanagement while holding the exam. However, its youth wing Bharatiya Janata Yuva Morcha or Akhil Bharatiya Vidyarthi Parishad (ABVP) are missing on the ground even if the issue is of concern to hundreds of thousands of youngsters from Maharashtra. At a time when these youth wing workers of political parties hold marches for various non-issues, their silence is conspicuous. It also indicates their ground-level connection is weak.Yogesh Joshi can be contacted at yogesh.joshi@htlive.com
13-12-2021||Other||Gurugram to get 100 mini buses by March next year||In a bid to improve the public transport system in the city, 100 mini buses will be added to the current fleet by March next year, said officials of the Gurugram Metropolitan Development Authority (GMDA) on Sunday. A proposal for the project was approved by chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar on Friday during a GMDA meeting, the officials said, adding that the new buses, estimated to cost ₹37 crore, will be added to the city bus service Gurugaman. “In order to streamline the local transport system in Gurugram, a proposal to include 100 minibuses in the city bus fleet was approved in the meeting. This will facilitate movement in congested areas. Around 32 possible routes have been identified for minibuses after consulting public representatives and others. There has also been an improvement in the revenue realisation from the city bus service,” said Sudhir Rajpal, chief executive officer of GMDA. Currently, the city bus service run by the Gurugram Metropolitan City Bus Limited (GMCBL) has a fleet of 189 buses plying on 30 different routes.The GMCBL was earlier getting a revenue of ₹11-12 per km, which has now increased to ₹41 per km, while the cost of operation is around ₹70 per km, the officials said. The CEO further said that an information system will also be installed at bus stops so that the passengers coming there can get correct information about the arrival time of the buses.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/gurugram-to-get-100-mini-buses-by-march-next-year-101639395668567.html
13-12-2021||Other||Goa’s lone NCP MLA joins with TMC||Goa’s lone Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) MLA on Monday told the Speaker of the Legislative Assembly that he was ‘merging’ with the Trinamool Congress and should henceforth be recognized as an MLA of the Trinamool Congress. Churchill Alemao, who is to be formally welcomed into the Trinamool Congress in the presence of Mamata Banerjee later today, told reporters that being the lone NCP MLA, he passed a ‘resolution’ to merge with the TMC and with him switching sides 100% of the MLAs of the party had switched sides, thereby ensuring that he doesn’t incur the wrath of the anti-defection law. “I have informed the speaker of the resolution I have taken and that I should henceforth be recognized as an MLA of the TMC,” Alemao said. Contrary to expectation, that Alemao would resign as an MLA before entering the TMC, he instead has chosen to remain an MLA, even though there are no sessions of the legislative assembly scheduled to be held before the polls. “TMC gets its first sitting MLA in Goa today. Alemao subsumes the NCP legislatively into TMC,” the party said in a statement to the media. The veteran politician spent a brief term of 18 days as Goa’s chief minister back in 1990 and owns the Churchill Brothers Football Club. Alemao has a storied political career in which he was one of the founding members of the now nearly defunct United Goans Democratic Party, joined the Congress, founded the now defunct Save Goa Party, besides also having a stint in the Nationalist Congress Party.This will be Alemao’s second entry into the TMC having earlier contested the 2014 Parliamentary elections as a TMC candidate from the South Goa parliamentary seat.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/goas-lone-ncp-mla-joins-with-tmc-101639395429842.html
13-12-2021||Lucknow||Covid cases down, innovative food joints come up in Lucknow||The state capital is witnessing launch of many new food ventures including specialised restaurants, lounges and quick service outlets. Along with new launches, existing outlets too are reinventing themselves. Gomti Nagar and Shaheed Path have become the hub of new outlets. Purple Foods at DLF MyPad is the latest entrant to the city market and brings an umbrella of multicuisine in quick food format. “Usually, such quick service formats specialise in one item but alongside Chinese and Indian food we have shakes, biryanis, pizzas, pastas and burgers at one place. This format has been successful in four cities and now we are here,” says its general manager Kanchan Chakraborty. An Italian specialty lounge Limone has come up at Uday Raj Palace Hotel in Mahanagar. Its proprietor Jeet Chaurasia says: “We have multiple plush outlets in Gomti Nagar but most of them cater to party going youngsters. After witnessing an untoward incident in city, I decided to bring in the same concept with families in mind.” Vibhuti Khand is witnessing the fastest growth in this sector. “The recent entrants at the top floor of our Summit building are Unplugged, Distillery and Black Brew House. New ones are coming with live-brewing options. When we came up with Bar Exchange it was a new concept. We are renovating next month and have new design in place. In this business one needs to be relevant and reinvent else patrons switch to newer outlets very quickly,” says Gaurav Singh of Boombox. The Centrum club in Sushant Golf City recently came up with Pendulum bar, Plum multicuisine restaurant and Aurum Bakery, Punjab Grill came up at the Phoenix Palassio mall, The Grand Cabana at Hotel Savvy Grand re-launched itself as Que Spacebar. The Vintage Machine is coming up with a plush bakery. “Last year people suffered huge losses but now restaurateurs are making investment as pandemic has become the new normal. Recently we had Mad Over Chicken, The Indian Street Food and pure-veg restaurant Eravat opening their outlets at Crown Mall. Next month we have Barbeque Nation,” says mall’s general manager Yogendra Arya.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/covid-cases-down-innovative-food-joints-come-up-in-lucknow-101639395371067.html
13-12-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra man, who beheaded his wife, nabbed||Raigad police have detained a man who allegedly beheaded his 26-year-old wife at a lodge in Matheran in the early hours of Sunday, merely six months after their marriage. The deceased, Poonam Pal, was a nurse at a private clinic and her IT engineer husband Ram Pal, with whom she lived in Panvel, Navi Mumbai, killed her over suspicion that she had an extramarital affair . “From the beginning of the marriage, her husband suspected that she had an extra marital affair. The accused was also two years younger to his wife which we are yet to verify,” Raigad superintendent of police Ashok Dudhe said.On Saturday evening, the couple checked into the lodge at Matheran, and in the wee hours on Sunday, Ram Pal killed his wife in the bathroom and then beheaded her. “The accused claimed to have thrown the head into a valley and our teams are searching for it. A total of five teams are working on the case including Mumbai police,” Dudhe said. Also Read: Instagram row | No action against Kangana Ranaut for the time beingIdentifying the couple was not easy at the beginning since the lodge had not taken any copies of identity cards from the couple. Police was lucky to find Poonam Pal’s purse a few meters away from the lodge and recover a prescription from it. “The prescription was issued from a clinic in Goregaon, where the girl’s parents stay. With the help of the CCTV footage which had captured the couple’s masked faces and the prescription, the girl was finally identified and later our team nabbed her husband from their Khanda Colony house,” Dudhe added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-man-who-beheaded-wife-nabbed-101639394408049.html
13-12-2021||Chandigarh||Time to scrap land ceiling laws in Punjab?||The Charanjit Singh Channi government’s latest decision of seeking information from deputy commissioners regarding landowners having more than the permissible area under the land ceiling laws in Punjab has stirred up a new controversy. Though the contentious circular was withdrawn the very next day, it has brought into focus the content and administration of the surplus area laws that were once regarded a vanguard of socio-economic justice in the state. Land reforms after Partition In pre-Partition Punjab, big and absentee landlords were common. Partition, accompanied by an unprecedented influx of displaced persons, led to land reform laws in the erstwhile states of East Punjab and Patiala and East Punjab States Union (PEPSU). These included the abolition of superior landowner titles, vesting of proprietary rights with occupancy tenants and consolidation of holdings. This was followed by far-reaching tenancy reforms and both the states enacted laws that, apart from providing security of land tenure as to the tenants-at-will, also had significant provisions dedicated to imposing a ceiling on landholdings. This process was continued and made more stringent with the Punjab Land Reforms Act, 1972, with Indira Gandhi winning the general election in 1971, the liberation of Bangladesh, when Giani Zail Singh became the chief minister. New Surplus Area Law of 1973 The new law came into force retrospectively with effect from January 24, 1971, and placed a ceiling of 18 standard acres of first quality land in the hands of, not just the individual, but rather the family as a unit. No doubt, some small additional fractions of land were allowed to accommodate the adult sons, as on the appointed date but the overall land ceiling, even for unirrigated or semi-irrigated land was 25 acres. There were barely any exceptions such as garden colonies and compact orchards, which had been grossly misutilised under the old laws. The determination of the surplus area was left to the revenue officers at the level of collector, with appeal to the commissioner and revision petition to the financial commissioner. Thereafter, the aggrieved party, whether the land owner or the state, could invoke the jurisdiction of the high court or the Supreme Court. The law, being a major of agrarian land reform, was placed in the Ninth Schedule of the Constitution, so that it could not be struck down as being in conflict with the fundamental rights. Its constitutional validity was upheld conclusively. Lacunae in the law A number of surplus area cases were initiated. However, the actual surplus area that was finally utilised was exceedingly limited. This was on account of the following lacunae in the Act. 1. According to Section 8 of the Act, the surplus area vested in the state only when the collector took over possession. Normally, in the appeal or revisional stage, stay orders were granted and given the normal time-frame for a final judicial adjudication right up to the apex court, the big landowners would have perhaps died and thus the surplus area read determined, as on the date of death, afresh in the hands of the legal hairs. Owing to division of land, usually no surplus area would remain. 2. The Act (section 7(4)) merely stated that transactions such as sale, gift decrees that operated to reduce the land in the hands of the big landowner were to be ignored in the determination of the surplus area. It did not explicitly state that these were null and void ab initio. Thus, alienation by sale etc. to third parties continued and they subsequently not only sought benefit as bonafide vendees but also became parties to the litigation. This also led to litigation inter se big landowners and the transferees and legal disputes arose as to which particular parcel of land should be declared surplus. 3. The Act and the statutory scheme framed under it provided that before the surplus land was redistributed to landless persons belonging to the Scheduled Caste (SC) landless residing in the village, the rights of the sitting tenant had to be determined. Many big landowners set up collusive tenants and when the area was finally declared surplus, it ended up being allotted to their own, collusive tenant, thereby defeating the purpose of the entire proceedings. 4. In rare cases, where the land was allotted to landless SC persons, the Act provided that they could not alienate for 15 years, after the issuance of the conveyance deed. Usually, no such entry regarding bar on alienation was made in the revenue record, as a result of which most of these people ended up prematurely selling the allotted land, often to the nominees of the original landowner, at throwaway prices. Impediment to development? Decades later, when promoters began to assemble/purchase huge parcels of land for urban development or institutional purposes such as integrated townships and private universities, this ceiling law posed a major hindrance. Some of them incorporated separate legal entities to circumvent the provisions. The instructions regarding change of land use (CLU) provided that ownership had to vest in the applicant, before the application could be allowed, thus creating a Catch-22 situation. In December 2017, this Act was retrospectively amended to provide for an exemption where land in excess of the permissible area had been or was to be accumulated by a single legal entity, for purposes other than agricultural, such as industrial, institutional or commercial. An easy self-certification and intimation to the collector process was provided. Thus, for all intents and purposes, agricultural land that was sought to be converted to non-agricultural use came out of the purview of the ceiling law. Utilisation of surplus area The utilisation of the surplus area, if any, finally declared is expected to be effected in accordance with the Punjab Utilisation of Surplus Area Scheme, 1973. This provides for the allotment of the land declared to be surplus to the sitting tenants (as on the appointed date) and thereafter to persons belonging to the Scheduled Castes and being residents of the village. The condition is that they should not own more than two hectares and their overall holding, after allotment, should not exceed two hectares. In many cases, the surplus land, though agricultural in nature in narrow legal terms, is situated in the periphery of major cities, including Chandigarh and in case of Haryana, which has a similar law/scheme in the NCR. The Punjab scheme does not permit utilisation of this land for any public purpose by the state government. It is felt that this scheme should be amended to permit this, otherwise, ultra-valuable land shall be frittered away to allottees, who will still technically claim to be marginal farmers. New Land Leasing Bill In 2018-19, the Punjab Government was toying with the idea of bringing about the Punjab Land Leasing Bill, 2018. Inter alia, it provided that companies taking huge chunks of land on 30-year lease from small farmers would not be hit by the provisions of the ceiling laws. Otherwise, even a tenant cannot hold more than the permissible area under the extant provisions of the Punjab Land Reforms Act, 1972. Owing to Covid restrictions and subsequently the farmers’ agitation, this Bill did not see the light of the day, though it is still alive on the Punjab Government website. Big landowners who have managed separate units for their sons and adult grandsons are using devious devices such as registered/unregistered wills from grandparents to other nominees outside the immediate family. Thus, in spite of all safeguards, you have kinnow orchards held by influential families, running into hundreds of acres. Time to give it a decent burialIt does not seem politically correct for any political party to state that the land ceiling law needs to be scrapped. However, I feel it is merely a fig-leaf and it can potentially become an instrument of harassment in the hands of entrepreneurs who want to buy land in Punjab for bonafide non-agricultural purposes. It also does not deter people with deep pockets from incorporating different private limited companies and setting up units, owning agricultural land. The surplus area proceedings of agro-forestry firms that had bought huge tracts of land using public deposits are still locked up in litigation. Without prejudice to the pending proceedings, I think time has come for us to give this law a decent burial so that at least prospectively larger holdings can be created for efficient use of scarce agricultural land in Punjab. kbs.sidhu@gmail.com The writer is a retired Punjab IAS officer. Views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/time-to-scrap-land-ceiling-laws-in-punjab-101639393928216.html
13-12-2021||Bhopal||‘Come here and perform’: Digvijaya Singh invites Munawar Faruqui, Kunal Kamra to Bhopal||Stand-up comics Munawar Faruqui and Kunal Kamra, who recently had their shows cancelled allegedly over threat to venues from right-wing groups, can come and perform in Bhopal, Congress leader Digvijaya Singh said on Monday.“Kunal, for you and Munawar, I will organise a show in Bhopal at my responsibility. There is only one condition, that the subject of your comedy will only be Digvijaya Singh. ‘Sanghis’ should not have any objection to this. Come here, don’t be scared. Just let me know the date and time. All your conditions are acceptable to me,” the former chief minister of Madhya Pradesh tweeted in Hindi. मैं कुणाल तुम्हारे और मुन्नवर के लिए भोपाल में शो आयोजित करता हूँ। सारी ज़िम्मेदारी मेरी होगी। शर्त एक होगी, कॉमेडी का सब्जेक्ट केवल दिग्विजय सिंह होगा। इसमें तो संघियों को एतराज़ नहीं होना चाहिए!! आओ डरो मत!! अपनी सुविधानुसार तारीख़ व समय दो। तुम्हारी सभी शर्तें मंज़ूर हैं। https://t.co/PRrvY0zupmOn November 28, the Bengaluru City Police denied permission for Faruqui’s show, titled ‘Dongri to Nowhere,’ which was scheduled to take place a day later. In denying the nod, the police noted that the comedian is a ‘controversial figure,’ referring to his previous run-ins with right-wing groups, which accuse him of cracking jokes on Hindu Gods and Goddesses.Also Read | Munawar Faruqui a ‘controversial figure’, say Bengaluru cops, comedian's show cancelledOrganisations such as the Sriram Sena and Hindu Janjagruti Samiti had lodged a complaint with the city police chief, accusing Faruqui of hurting sentiments of Hindus.Kamra, meanwhile, took to Twitter on December 1 to announce the cancellation of all his performances in Karnataka’s capital, scheduled across the following 20 days. “They (the shows) have been cancelled for two reasons. First, we didn’t get special permissions to seat 45 people in the venue which can seat more. Secondly, threats have been made to shut down the venue if I were to ever perform there. I guess this is also part of the Covid protocol and new guidelines. I suppose I am seen as a variant of the new virus now,” the Mumbai-based Kamra posted.Also Read | After Munawar Faruqui, stand-up comic Kunal Kamra says all shows in Bengaluru cancelledAfter Faruqui was denied permission by the Bengaluru cops, the Congress invited him to stage his show in Mumbai. In January this year, the Gujarat-born comic was arrested in Madhya Pradesh’s Indore for allegedly insulting Hindu deities. He was released the following month after being granted interim bail by the Supreme Court.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bhopal-news/come-and-perform-in-bhopal-digvijaya-singh-invites-munawar-faruqui-kunal-kamra-101639393201985.html
13-12-2021||Other||Clashes between ABVP-NCP outside minister’s bungalow in Thane||Clashes were reported between the youngsters of the Akhil Bhartiya Vidhyarthi Parishad (ABVP) and workers of the Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) in Maharashtra’s Thane after the former staged a protest outside Maharashtra cabinet minister Jitendra Awhad’s residence on Monday, officials said. The ABVP members were protesting the cancellation of Maharashtra’s Housing and Area Development Authority (MHADA) recruitment examinations which were scheduled for December 12. The clashes were brought under control after the police intervened and detained the protesters. The protest started around 11 in the morning when the ABVP protesters gathered outside the minister’s bungalow near the Eastern Express Highway in Thane and shouted slogans against the Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government. They refused to leave the area despite repeated warnings by the police. The NCP party workers reached the venue and there were clashes between the two parties. The police removed 100s of protesters from the venue and got the situation under control. An officer from Vartak Nagar Police station in Thane said, “We have mobilized a large force at the spot and the situation is under control. We will release a statement on the number of protesters detained later in the day.” The ABVP alleged that the NCP workers tried to resort to violence in their silent protest while the police merely stood as mute spectators. Shankar Sankpal, office bearer of the ABVP said, “The MVA government has set a pattern, first the papers are leaked and then examinations are cancelled, the future of youngsters is in dark due to this repeated cancellation of various examinations. We tried to protest silently, however, NCP thugs came and got aggressive. The police did not take any action against them and instead arrested our own people.” Minister Jitendra Awhad, added, “I was trying to be fair with all the students, as the paper was leaked I was the one to take initiative to inquire in the leak issue and took a fair decision for all of them. The MHADA will now take its own exam instead of involving private institutions. There are messages circulated on social media platforms about the protest against me, my followers and NCP workers obviously will be there to stop such acts.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/clashes-between-abvp-ncp-outside-minister-s-bungalow-in-thane-101639391768542.html
13-12-2021||Pune||Chances of start-up ecosystem getting successful higher with less govt interference, says Piyush Goyal||Union minister of commerce and industry Piyush Goyal on Sunday said that the less the government interferes in the start-up ecosystem, the more potential it will have to be successful.While addressing a gathering during a visit to the Science and Technology Park in Savitribai Phule, Pune University, the Union Minister highlighted that the reason why the IT sector is so successful in India is that the government has no role to play."I personally feel that the less the government interferes in the start-up ecosystem, the more potential it will have to be successful. Nationalisation has stymied the growth of several sectors. Look at IT sector, it is successful in India because the government has no role to play. If I take list of unicorns, almost none of them have taken the government's support to become unicorns," he added."Wherever the government got involved and we saw the nationalisation of so many different businesses and sectors in the past years has stymied the growth of those sectors," he emphasised.The Union Minister further said, "If we allow entrepreneurs to flourish, with the least amount of government interference, they can scale in their operation and come up with affordable and cost-effective solutions. They will improve their design and quality. If we really want this ecosystem to survive then we have to let it work its own.""If I make a list of unicorns, almost none of them have taken government support to become unicorns," he added.He also said that 46 per cent of start-ups registered with DPIIT have women as part of the ecosystem. He hoped that women will lead the Start-up culture in Maharashtra.He further said, today we have a startup ecosystem across the length and breadth of India. "More than 50000 start-ups have been registered in India. It is the third-largest ecosystem in the world."Informing that as per DPIIT registrations, Pune has 3200 Start-ups whereas Mumbai 3274 Start-ups, Minister suggested that this healthy competition between Pune and Mumbai should continue.Recalling the contribution of social reformer and educationist Savitribal Phule, he said that Savitribai had started the first girls school in Pune, so it is befitting that women entrepreneurs showcase their work in this Science Technology Park in Pune.Comparing incubators with parents, the minister added that they are like guides and supporters that start-ups need. Describing Pune's unique position to support start-ups due to the presence of industry, IT and finest academic institutions, Goyal added that it is time to increase international collaboration in start-up ecosystem.He expressed the need for collaboration of Academia, industry and research for the thriving of Startups.He concluded that India may have a billion problems but it also has brilliant billion entrepreneurs to solve these problems with extremely cost-effective solutions for farmers, Divyang and the poor.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/chances-of-start-up-ecosystem-getting-successful-higher-with-less-govt-interference-says-piyush-goyal-101639390726930.html
13-12-2021||Mumbai||Time for political parties to make climate change election agenda, says Aaditya Thackeray||Shiv Sena leader and Maharashtra environment minister Aaditya Thackeray on Monday said the state government would discuss the issue of climate change with legislators during the upcoming assembly session.“Climate change is a crucial issue not just for Mumbai or Maharashtra, but for the entire world,” Aaditya Thackeray, who is also the son of chief minister Uddhav Thackeray, was heard speaking at a gathering.Harping on the gravity of the situation, Aaditya Thackeray urged the political parties to make climate change their "election agenda". “If climate change happens, it will impact the people of our country more than any other country's because we have a dense population. Need of the time is that political parties make climate change their election agenda,” the young minister said.Stressing the need for children to understand the significance of climate change and environmental degradation, Aaditya Thackeray said, “We are handing over the green syllabus to the School education department and hope this to be a very important step towards green earth.”This was not the first time that the state environment minister raised the issue of climate change and stressed the need for acting on it.ALSO READ | Let’s make action plan to combat climate crisis: Aaditya Thackeray to 27 environment ministersEarlier this month, while interacting with students at an event organised as part of Colaba Conversation 2021, Aaditya Thackeray said the threat of climate change is a real one and that development and environment can go hand in hand provided that the development is sustainable. In an exclusive interview to Hindustan Times last year, Aaditya Thackeray spoke about the roadmap and strategies to make Mumbai the most active city among the C40 group — a global network of cities committed to tackling climate change — in South and West Asia region. The minister addressed key aspects for the most vulnerable districts in the state in the fight against extreme weather events, droughts, extreme flooding and annual sea-level rise.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/climate-change-maharashtra-assembly-climate-change-environment-aaditya-thackeray-101639388241383.html
13-12-2021||Mumbai||Instagram row: No action against Kangana Ranaut for the time being||In a relief for Kangana Ranaut, the Maharashtra government on Monday assured the Bombay high court that it will not take any coercive action against the actor in connection with an FIR registered against her at Khar police station for allegedly hurting the sentiments of the Sikh community.The state government gave the assurance after Ranaut agreed to show up at Khar police station on December 22 to record her statement with regard to an Instagram post she had made in connection with the farmers’ protest.The FIR was registered on November 23 at the behest of Mulund resident Amarjeetsingh Sandhu, 47, along with the leaders of the Delhi Sikh Gurdwara Management Committee (DSGMC) and the Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD). They had alleged that an Instagram post by the Bollywood actor on November 21 hurt the religious feelings and beliefs of Sikhs.On the basis of the complaint, Khar police booked Ranaut under section 295A of the Indian Penal Code (IPC), which pertains to deliberate and malicious acts intended to outrage religious feelings of any class of people by insulting its religion or religious beliefs.Ranaut has moved the high court, seeking that the FIR be quashed. On Friday, her lawyer argued before the division bench of justice Nitin Jamdar and justice Sarang Kotwal that like every other Indian citizen, Ranaut has fundamental freedom of speech and expression under Article 19 (1) (a) of the Constitution to express her views freely, and since no case was made out against her, the FIR should be quashed. Also Read: Kangana congratulates Harnaaz Sandhu, shares pic of winning moment: ‘Delightful’Public prosecutor Aruna Pai opposed the petition, submitting that Ranaut’s post was targeted at the Sikh community as they were at the forefront of the farmers’ protest at that time. Pai added that Ranaut had been issued a notice to appear before the police, but she didn’t respond. After Ranaut agreed to the court’s suggestion to be present at the police station on December 22, the bench posted her plea for further hearing on January 25.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/instagram-row-no-action-against-kangana-ranaut-for-the-time-being-101639389907800.html
13-12-2021||Chandigarh||Miss Universe Harnaaz lives up to her name, family elated in Punjab||True to her name, Harnaaz has made everyone in India proud by winning the Miss Universe 2021 title as her family and residents of Kharar town in Punjab’s Mohali district adjoining Chandigarh celebrated the 21-year-old’s victory at the pageant on Monday. “I will make you proud,” Harnaaz’s mother Dr Rabinder Kaur Sandhu, a senior medical officer and gynaecologist at a hospital in Mohali, said, recalling the promise her daughter made on Sunday, ahead of winning the coveted title beating contestants from 79 countries 21 years after India’s Lara Dutta last brought home the title. Actor Sushmita Sen was the first from the country to win the title in 1994. The 70th edition of the pageant was held at Eilat, Israel. Dr Kaur said she advised her Harnaaz, whose name means everyone’s pride, to stay focused and leave everything to Almighty. She said she was praying for her at a gurdwara when the event was taking place. Harnaaz’s brother, Harnoor Singh, 28, who watched the event, informed his mother about his sister winning the crown. “We were fully confident that she would make the country proud,” her mother said. Family her biggest supportHarnaaz’s father Pritampal Singh Sandhu, who is in the real estate business, was her biggest supporter when he saw her focus and determination. Harnoor, who works as a musician and video editor, said he had not been able to sleep all night as he was so excited. “Harnaaz wanted to become a judge earlier but the whole family backed her decision to enter the beauty pageant. Earlier, we were hesitant to tell our father but now he is her biggest supporter,” he said. The family, which is originally from Batala, has been staying in Kharar since 2008. They have been flooded with congratulatory messages since morning. An elated Harnoor said the family will pay obeisance at the Golden Temple in Amritsar in gratitude. “It is a proud moment not only for us but for the country also,” he said. Harnaaz’s mother said her daughter loves yoga, horse riding and cooking and is fond of ‘makki di roti and sarson da saag’, which she will be served when she returns home. Bright and polite student: Principal She is in the final year of MA public administration at Post Graduate Government College for Girls Sector 42, Chandigarh. College principal Nisha Aggarwal said, “It is a matter of immense happiness for us. Harnaaz Sandhu studied BA (IT) and now she is pursuing MA public administration. She has been a bright student. She is a polite, humble and an obedient student.” Harnaaz won the Times Fresh Face in 2017, representing Chandigarh at the age of 17. She won the LIVA Miss Diva Universe 2021 title. She has worked in a few Punjabi films, including Yaara Diyan Poo Baran and Bai Ji Kuttange.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/miss-universe-harnaaz-lives-up-to-her-name-family-elated-in-punjab-101639386247602.html
13-12-2021||Delhi||‘Will impose restrictions if necessary’, Kejriwal on Omicron threat||Amid rapidly rising cases of Omicron variant of Covid-19 across the country, Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Monday said the Union territory is prepared to tackle the threat of the new strain of coronavirus disease.Kejriwal said his government would impose restrictions to check the spread of the new strain of the virus if the situation required such measures.“We're ready to tackle the Omicron threat. If required, we will impose necessary restrictions. Currently, there is no such need to impose any restrictions,” Kejriwal was quoted as saying by news agency ANI.The chief minister also said that a decision pertaining to reopening of schools would be taken after winter vacation for educational institutes end.Delhi has so far reported two cases of Omicron variant.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/omicron-variant-delhi-arvind-kejriwal-covid-19-cases-101639380234301.html
13-12-2021||Bangalore||Bengaluru to face power cuts till December 15. Check timings||Several areas in Bengaluru city will face power cuts from Monday till Wednesday because of cable conversion work and other maintenance works by the Karnataka Power Transmission Corporation Limited (KPTCL) and the Bangalore Electricity Supply Company Limited (BESCOM).The power outage will happen as early as 10am and can last till 5.30pm, according to the BESCOM website.Bengaluru has been hit with frequent power disruptions for quite some time. Last week, residents of India’s information technology capital were without power on December 7, 8 and 9.South ZoneDecember 13 (Monday): On Monday, a power outage in the south zone of Bengaluru will take place from 10am till 5.30pm. The south zone of the city includes divisions such as Koramangala, Jayanagar and HSR layout.December 14 (Tuesday): Power cut will be from 10am till 5pm or 5.30pm.December 15 (Wednesday): On Wednesday too, the power cut will be from 10am till 5pm or 5.30pm.North ZoneIn the north zone, the timings of power cuts are varying, but they are lesser than that of the south zone.An important thing to note is that variations in power cut timings are due to different subdivisions and OM units of the division, according to the BESCOM.December 13: In the Malleshwaram division, residents will have no power from 10am till 2pm or 10am till 12.30pm or from 10am till 3pm.In Jalahalli, power cuts will happen from 12pm till 1pm, 11am till 5pm or 1pm till 4pm.In Hebbal, the timings will be from 10am till 4pm or 10am till 5pm.While in the Peenya division, power supply will be out from 10am till 5.30pm.December 14: Residents of Malleshwaram will have a power cut from 9.30am till 1.30pm or 11am till 1pm or 10am till 2pm or 10.30am till 5.30pm.In the Jalahalli division, power cuts on Tuesday will be from 10am till 11am, or 11am till 2pm or from 11am till 5pm, according to the BESCOM.The power cut timings in Hebbal division will be from 12pm till 5pm, or 11am till 12pm, or 10am till 5pmIn the Peenya division, residents will face power cuts from 10am till 5.30pm.December 15: Malleshwaram will face a power cut on Wednesday from either 10am till 2pm, or 9.30 am till 1.30pm or 11am till 2pm.In the Jalahalli division, the timings will be from 11am till 2pm, or 1pm till 2pm or 11am till 5pm.Power cut in Hebbal division will be from 10am till 4pm or from 10am till 5pm.In Peenya division, the timings will be from 10am till 5.30pm.West ZoneThe West Zone of Bengaluru includes divisions such as Kengeri, RR Nagar and Rajajinagar.December 13: On Monday, the power cut in Rajajinagar will be from 10am till 5.30pm.In RR Nagar, residents will have no power from 10am till 5pm. While in Kengeri division, the timings will be from 9am till 5pm or from 10am till 5pm.December 14: The power cut in Rajajinagar on Tuesday will be from 10.30am till 5.30pm.RR Nagar will face a power cut from 10am till 5pm. In Kengeri division, there will be no power from 9am till 5pm or from 10am till 5pm.December 15: On Wednesday, there will be no power in Rajaji Nagar from 10.30am till 5.30pm.The power cut timings in RR Nagar will be from 10am till 5pm.Timings will remain unchanged for the Kengeri division.East ZoneIndiranagar and Shivajinagar divisions come under the East Zone of Bengaluru city.December 13: On Monday, the power cut in Indiranagar will be from 10am till 4pm or from 11am till 5pm.The timings in the Shivajinagar division will be from 10am till 4pm, or 10.30am till 2.30pm or 10am till 5pm.December 14: The timings will remain unchanged in Indiranagar on Tuesday. IN Shivajinagar, the power cut will be from 10am till 4pm, 10am till 5pm or 12pm till 3pm.December 15: Timings will once again remain unchanged for residents of the Indiranagar division. While in Shivaji Nagar, the timings will be from 10am till 4pm or 10am till 5pm.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/bengaluru-to-face-power-cuts-till-december-15-check-timings-101639370667065.html
13-12-2021||Mumbai||Covid-19: South Africa returnee tests positive for Omicron variant in Nagpur||Maharashtra reported another case of the Omicron variant of the coronavirus on Sunday as the state’s tally of infections caused by the new variant of Covid-19 went up to 18. The infected person, 40, arrived in Nagpur from South Africa on December 5. According to the state health department, “The infected person had not taken any [Covid-19] vaccine. The person is currently under isolation at the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) in Nagpur. He had also tested positive on April 11, 2021.”The state administration tested 30 close contacts of the infected person, and everyone tested negative.Between December 1 and Sunday morning, 77,530 passengers, including 11,751 from at-risk nations, arrived at the international airports in Mumbai, Pune and Nagpur. A total of 30 Covid-19 positive cases were detected, including 22 from at-risk countries.Also Read: Omicron Covid-19 variant more transmissible, reduces vaccine efficiency: WHOAlso, field surveillance of all international passengers who arrived in Maharashtra since November 1 is underway. A total of 107 samples have been sent for genomic sequencing and the results of 26 are awaited, the health department said on Sunday.So far, Omicron variant cases have been reported in Pimpri-Chinchwad (10), Mumbai (5), and one each in Kalyan-Dombivli, Pune and Nagpur. Of these infections, nine have tested negative and were discharged from hospital. Meanwhile, Maharashtra added 704 fresh Covid-19 cases on Sunday, taking the state’s tally to 6,643,883. The state added 16 Covid-19 deaths, pushing the toll to 1,41,259. Maharashtra’s active case count stood at 6,441 on Sunday.Mumbai added 188 new Covid-19 cases, taking its tally to 765,282. A day after recording zero Covid deaths, Mumbai clocked two fatalities, taking the death toll in the city to 16,357. Mumbai’s active case count was 1,774 on Sunday.The state has been recording 600-800 cases for the past 7-10 days. A chunk of Sunday’s cases were reported in the Mumbai metropolitan region. The cities and satellite towns in the region, excluding Mumbai, added 134 cases. Pune district added 197 fresh cases, while Ahmednagar district reported 47.
13-12-2021||Lucknow||Two MLAs join SP ahead of 2022 UP Assembly polls||Ahead of the 2022 Assembly elections, the Samajwadi Party got a shot in the arm on Sunday as two legislators and a large number of Brahmins from different political parties in Uttar Pradesh joined the party fold.The MLAs who joined the SP include Vinay Shankar Tiwari from Chillupar assembly seat in Gorakhpur, who was expelled from the Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) recently, and Digvijay Narayan alias Jai Chaubey (BJP) from Khalilabad constituency in Sant Kabir Nagar. They both joined the SP in presence of party chief Akhilesh Yadav.Former chairman of the UP Legislative Council Ganesh Shankar Pandey, who was fielded by the BSP in 2010 for the post of council chairman, also joined the SP.Apart from these prominent leaders, a large number of Brahmins from different political parties also joined the party in UP, which will go to polls in February-March next year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/two-mlas-join-sp-ahead-of-2022-up-assembly-polls-101639355946474.html
13-12-2021||Delhi||Delhiwale: The man with many stories||Each person is an anthology of stories. So is S. Kumar. “My life is full of unfortunate incidents,” he says in fluent English, in these very words.In his early 30s, Mr Kumar, a History (Hons.) graduate, describes himself as a kabadiwalla. In fact, this afternoon he is walking by the Gurugram roadside, carrying a huge white sack on his shoulders filled with empty water bottles, discarded chips packets and other pavement detritus. Stopping by a pile of bricks, Mr Kumar gives a sense of his previous life. These are his own words, with some identifying details omitted at his request—“I was born and brought up in Delhi only. I used to live in —Nagar. I worked as a medical record keeper in — Hospital. Life was satisfying. I also got married. I have a son. We all lived happily with my parents. And then I started to drink. It became a habit. I quit my job. My family had to give up on me. It wasn’t their fault.”Circumstances propelled him to move to neighbouring Gurugram where “I found work as a kabadiwalla… this helps me earn some amount of money for basic expenses, and I get to sleep in the warehouse of the recycler, near Atul Kataria Chowk, to whom I give my day’s collection every evening.”Mr Kumar seems sober as he discusses the hurts he has caused to the people who love him “and probably still care for me.” Can’t he make a new start, and contact them. He smiles sarcastically. “I haven’t taken a shower since a week…”Mr Kumar resumes walking. “I’ll now leave my bag at some stall and go for the afternoon show at Raj,” he says, referring to a single-screen cinema, nearby.Few minutes later, after paying 30 rupees for a ticket, he is ensconced inside the theatre, on his favroite seat—he’s a regular. The movie is still to begin. Mr Kumar starts talking loudly, his voice echoing in the empty hall—“I really want someone to write a book on me. Because life is a story for me, and I have so many stories in my life. Not a single story is yet complete. They all are incomplete. So someone must write down those stories.” Next moment the movie begins.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhiwale-the-man-with-many-stories-101639353231085.html
13-12-2021||Delhi||Students’ idea for low-cost computing gets ₹75K seed money||The third episode of the Delhi government’s Business Blasters TV programme, which aired on Sunday, saw students proposing ideas such as low-cost computers for students and advertising businesses for small vendors.As part of the Business Blasters programme, which was launched in September, students in classes 11 and 12 will be mentored and provided seed money to help kick-start their business ideas.The team that proposed the idea of low-cost computers received a seed investment of ₹75,000. “The idea behind this business model was modifying current operating systems to make them compatible with older hardware, which brings down the cost of the machine sold,” the team said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/students-idea-for-low-cost-computing-gets-75k-seed-money-101639350593568.html
13-12-2021||Delhi||Tihar inmate stabbed inside his cell by two other prisoners||A 30-year-old man who was lodged in west Delhi’s Tihar Jail was severely injured in an alleged scuffle between three inmates. The man was allegedly stabbed multiple times inside his cell.Police officials said that the incident was reported on Friday. They said jail officials found the inmate, Yogesh, with severe injuries on his hands and chest and he was rushed to Deen Dayal Upadhyay Hospital for treatment.Urvija Goel, DCP (West) said, “We received Yogesh’s medico-legal report from the hospital. He is an inmate at Central Jail 8 of Tihar. He was assaulted by other inmates but didn’t want to file a complaint. We spoke to jail authorities and are taking legal action in the matter.”A senior jail official said that one of the inmates was getting a haircut inside Jail number 8, when two other inmates suddenly attacked Mukesh after snatching the scissors from the barber.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/tihar-inmate-stabbed-inside-his-cell-by-two-other-prisoners-101639350290460.html
13-12-2021||Delhi||Tale of wilted fines: Space tough to come by for saplings in Maafi Bagh||The sight of thousands of fresh saplings greets visitors to Delhi’s Central Ridge – a notified forest area adjacent to Sardar Patel Marg – thanks to court orders to assorted offenders to help the forests and wildlife department plant trees using fine amounts imposed on them.The cluster that houses several native plant varieties has come to be commonly known as Maafi Bagh – garden of forgiveness – as part of the forestation has been undertaken as court-ordained penance by those falling foul of the law. But, a spot check reveals operational constraints have overshadowed the novel garden. Congested plantation has led to saplings wilting away for lack of sunlight, left stunted with no space to grow.In March 2019, justice Najmi Waziri of the Delhi high court imposed a fine of ₹80 lakh on a pharmaceutical company for breach of court orders, ordering it to use the amount for the “larger public good” and create a green area of 140,000 saplings in the Central Ridge.Complying with the orders, the department of forests and wildlife said in its submission that it could plant just 3,500 saplings in the area, citing lack of space in the ridge’s rocky terrain. But, with the court warning of contempt proceedings, the department scaled up the number to over 15,000 saplings in that case, and also carried out compensatory plantation in nearly 50 more such matters since then. To be sure, since March 2019, over 45,000 saplings have been planted in the cluster.To compensate for the poor living conditions for the plants and lack of space, a similar area for compensatory plantation was created in Delhi’s Southern Ridge, called Insaaf Bagh (garden of justice).The new site has reignited hopes of a green revival as a close look at the saplings planted in the original Maafi Bagh showed that nearly half of those are in bad shape. Each tree has been meticulously numbered and tagged, but with the saplings growing too close to each other, there isn’t adequate sunlight, forest officials say.Officials working in the area say efforts are made to find spots where there are openings in a larger tree canopy, but with the invasive Vilayati Kikar variety covering large patches of the Central Ridge sunlight doesn’t percolate down.“These are two Kadamb trees, both planted at the same time. While one of them now stands at a height of nearly 12 feet, the other has barely touched 4 feet. The former receives plenty of sunlight but the latter is growing in a shaded area under a Vilayati Kikar and is finding it tough to spread out or grow,” explains a forest official watering a patch of 26,000 saplings planted as part of the Aparna Bhat vs Sakshi Singh case in the Delhi high court.To create room for fresh saplings to be planted in each new case, the ground vegetation is the first to be cleared, before pits are dug at gaps of four to 10 feet to accommodate them. Another forest official, who does not want to be named, says the mortality rate is around 20%, largely due to plants not receiving enough nutrients and sunlight despite earnest efforts.“We are watering each patch using borewells and STP (sewage treatment plant) water. Plenty of manure is provided to the plants, but some are simply unable to grow,” says the official, adding that it is difficult to prune the Kikars to allow passage of sunlight as the area is a notified forest.“The rules for a notified forest are more stringent and permissions are required under the Forest Conservation Act, 1980. Therefore, we have not carried out any pruning.”Navneet Srivastava, deputy conservator of forests (west), says efforts are being made to comply with all court orders, with different soil and moisture conservation techniques put into use.“We have created check dams in the area, where saplings are being grown. A water body has also been revived. We are trying our best to comply with all court orders, which have resulted in a lot of good work done in the Central Ridge,” he said.However, experts believe not only is the lack of ground vegetation damaging to the overall ecology of the forest, but not all trees are likely to survive the plantation process.Environmentalist Pradip Krishen, author of Trees of Delhi, says only a few species will be able to grow on their own once irrigation is withdrawn, stressing the need to have adequate spacing between saplings and ground-level flora.“A lot of saplings are unable to grow properly as they are growing close to each other. Other species will dry out as soon as they stop receiving water as the Ridge’s rocky, thin top-soil ecology only supports a fixed number of species. While it is good to plant more saplings, it needs to be done with adequate spacing and without removing the ground vegetation,” he says.Vijay Dhasmana, ecologist and a curator at the Aravalli Biodiversity Park in Gurugram, says species such as Bargad, Peepul, Neem or Pilkhan cannot grow if they are planted at a distance of five to six feet.“The exercise may not yield any ecological benefits if they are being planted too close or are not receiving enough sunlight. Most trees will not survive and if one has to be bring about restorative change, then the Vilayati Kikars need to be removed systematically alongside the plantation being done,” he says.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/tale-of-wilted-fines-space-tough-to-come-by-for-saplings-in-maafi-bagh-101639347605636.html
13-12-2021||Delhi||Juvenile held for murder of 79-year-old in Rajendra Nagar||he Delhi Police on Sunday apprehended a boy for murdering a 79-year-old woman inside her house in central Delhi’s Rajendra Nagar on Saturday, deputy commissioner of police (central) Shweta Chauhan said.The DCP said the juvenile suspect was apprehended from his “hideout” in Rajendra Nagar, and added that the investigators recovered a set of blood-stained clothes that were apparently worn by the suspect when he murdered the elderly woman.Chauhan said the boy used to deliver vegetables to the deceased, Kusum Singhal’s house, and that is why he was allowed entry to the house by the victim.“The police team has apprehended one juvenile along with the woman’s mobile phone, a few sets of artificial jewellery, and ₹2000 that the boy stole from her house. Our team has also recovered his blood-stained clothes and shoes. The police are further investigating if anybody else helped him, or involved in any way in the commission of the offence,” DCP Chauhan said.The suspect allegedly beaten the elderly woman to death with a brick, the police said. Her husband died a few years ago, and she lived alone. She is survived by two daughters, one of whom lives in south Delhi, while the other lives in Switzerland.DCP Chauhan said on Saturday afternoon, one of Singhal’s daughters was not able to get in touch with her over the phone, and contacted Singhal’s neighbour. The police did not reveal which daughter made the call.Around 2.10pm, the neighbour went to Singhal’s house and saw that the main door was ajar. She found her body with injury marks on the head, the police said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/juvenile-held-for-murder-of-79-year-old-in-rajendra-nagar-101639346907706.html
13-12-2021||Chandigarh||50 years of 1971 Indo-Pak war: When the Army evacuated an injured Pak Havildar||Around 5pm on December 5, 1971, just as the sun was setting, Colonel Kuldev Nand, then Captain and part of the 23 Mountain Artillery Brigade, received orders to cross the India-Bangladesh (then East Pakistan) border.His unit, 197 Mountain Regiment, which was to support the 301 Mountain Brigade, immediately started advancing towards Mudafarganj, more than 100 kilometres from Dhaka. Around 9am the next day, they reached Mudafarganj and were greeted by enemy fire. “Luckily, the bullets were at a higher level than the ground, so the fire was ineffective. I was told the fire upon the enemy forces and with the support of a company led by Major Narpat Singh Shekhawat, we killed eight Pak soldiers and captured two. Our company commander’s operator got hit in the arm,” recalls the veteran.But amid death and destruction, acts of kindness and compassion don’t aren’t rare. Col Nand recalls how the Army helped evacuate a Pak havildar who was found critically injured in a wheat field. “He was injured during mopping-up operations. When we found him, he was in severe pain and was pleading to be shot dead. He would have succumbed to his injuries, but in no time, a chopper of the GOC 23 Mountain Division evacuated him,” recalls Col Nand. “Later we came to know that the havildar was among those repatriated. This is the Indian Army for you,” he says proudly. After capturing Mudafarganj, the company moved towards Hajiganj. On reaching there, the Army occupied a school building for night halt. Around 8pm, the enemy forces open fire on them but the Company retaliated in equal measure. By the time, the Company reached Chandpur the next morning, over 10,000 Pak soldiers had surrendered. The Colonel also recalls a close shave when he managed to save another Officiating Company Commander’s life. “When we were on the western side of Lakhiya River, we faced heavy mortar shelling from the rival camp. As an artillery soldier, I immediately sensed an enemy mortar that had been dropped metres away from us. I managed to pull Captain Patnaik out of the way before the mortar went off,” recalls the veteran.Just as the soldiers were crossing Lakhiya river on December 16, they received a radio message that a ceasefire had been declared and Pak forces had surrendered in front of the Indian Army.“But we did not rest till we captured the Adamji Mills in Narayanganj, one of the largest jute mills operated by a rich Pakistani industrialist Adamji. Dhaka had been captured by then but the enemy forces were refusing to give up. They surrendered only after the first raging round landed on the mills,” Col Nand recalls.The colonel has also written a chapter “Liberation of Bangladesh” in a book “In Quest of Freedom – The war of 1971” that shares personal accounts of soldiers from India and Bangladesh. A compilation of first-hand accounts, the book is edited by a celebrated soldier, Major General Ian Cardozo.Col Nand retired in 1997 from Headquarter 2 Core Artillery Brigade in Ambala Cantt. He now lives with his wife in Defence Colony and plays golf with his friends in free time. His son and daughter are settled abroad. Know the veteran• Colonel Kuldev Nand, 77• Was part of 23 Mountain Artillery Brigade concentrated along the Eastern Border• Retired in 1997• Plays golf with friends||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/50-years-of-1971-indo-pak-war-when-the-army-evacuated-an-injured-pak-havildar-101639343164149.html
13-12-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh MC polls: Covid norms go for a toss amid electioneering||With just 10 days left for campaigning to end in the city, political parties and candidates are going all out to reach as many voters as possible, often while ignoring all Covid guidelines and protocols. This, even as the daily Covid tally has been consistently rising in the tricity. The campaigning for Chandigarh municipal corporation elections will end on December 21, and thereafter 72 hours have been designated as “silence period” by the state election commission (SEC) till the voting ends on December 24. In view of the pandemic, the SEC, in addition to the standard model code of conduct for elections, also issued separate Covid guidelines on November 26.Most of the violations are taking place when candidates go for door-to-door campaigning. While the guidelines state that not more than five people can go for door-to-door campaigning, in some cases, it is seen that there is a sizeable crowd tagging along with candidates.Chandigarh Congress president Subhash Chawla said, “All candidates, not only from Congress but other parties too, generally start with only five people. But as they move along the constituency, their supporters start joining them. It becomes very difficult for them to stop these supporters.”In public meetings too, crowds are being gathered in excess of the permissible limits. In the public meetings, Covid norms, including social distancing and use of masks, sanitisers, thermal scanners, face shields, hand gloves, etc, are not being followed.In case, a candidate or a political party violates any of the guidelines, no more permission will be given to the candidate/party concerned for rallies, meetings etc. “If any star campaigner violates Covid protocols, he/she shall not be allowed to campaign further in that constituency/ district,” stipulates the SEC guidelines.District magistrate Vinay Pratap Singh, said, “This has come to my notice too. We will issue fresh instructions to the political parties on Monday. Returning officers (ROs) have also been instructed to strictly enforce these guidelines. A review meeting will be held on December 15.”After the review, the administration will decide if any new directions and measures should be taken in this regard.“In the light of advisory issued by the health ministry of Gol, SEC will keep a close watch on the evolving situation and may further tighten the guidelines for the upcoming elections,” said a SEC spokesperson.
13-12-2021||Chandigarh||Farm labourers’ protest: Passengers stranded for 4 hours as railways services hit in Punjab||Passengers of four trains were left stranded for four hours at the Ludhiana Railway Station on Sunday as members of the Khet Mazdoor Union Sanjhe Morcha blocked railway tracks from 12pm to 4pm in various parts of the state. The farm labourers were protesting against the Punjab government over their demands for complete waiver of outstanding electricity bills and allotment of five marla plots to the needy. They stated that their meeting last month with chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi had remained inconclusive. Trains that got stuck in Ludhiana were Shane Punjab train, Sarbat Da Bhala train, Lal Kuan express and Dadar express. Even though there were no cancellations, a total of 19 trains were affected in Ferozpur division. As many as 14 were delayed while five had to be rescheduled. The farmers also blocked railway tracks in Phillaur, Moga, Ajitwal, Jagraon, Beas and Manawala near Amritsar. However, as per officials, not many trains were affected. “Traffic from mainly Amritsar to Ludhiana and Ferozpur to Ajitwal-Jagroan rail lines were affected. Luckily, not many trains ply during the time chosen for the protest,” said a senior railway official. Meanwhile, passengers were left irate, stating that trains have become a soft target for the protestors in Punjab. “If they have issues with the state government, why do they halt trains which ferry passengers from other states as well. This has become an unfortunate trend here in Punjab which leads to the harassment for the public,” said Salil Bansal, a passenger. A few passengers were even forced to hire taxis and other public transport available to reach their destinations. “Such incidents need to be curbed, or else, there will a huge law-and-order situation in the country soon,” said another passenger, Anil Tyagi. Meanwhile, station director Tarun Kumar ordered the rail staff to continuously serve water in the stranded trains and clean the toilets repeatedly.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/farm-labourers-protest-passengers-stranded-for-4-hours-as-railways-services-hit-101639342205749.html
13-12-2021||Chandigarh||Cab driver stabbed, car snatched in Khuda Ali Sher||An unidentified person stabbed a cab driver and snatched his vehicle from Khuda Ali Sher on the intervening night of Saturday and Sunday after posing as a passenger. The cab driver, Rajat Mehta of Mohali, said he picked up the accused from Sector 43. The accused told him he wanted to go to Kansal. While they were in Khuda Ali Sher, the accused stabbed the driver and abandoned him on the road and sped off with the car. Mehta was rushed for treatment to Government Multi Specialty Hospital (GMSH), Sector 16, where his condition is said to be stable. Police have meanwhile registered a case under Section 392 (robbery) and other sections of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) at the Sector 11 police station. No arrests have been made yet.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/cab-driver-stabbed-car-snatched-in-khuda-ali-sher-101639342144129.html
13-12-2021||Chandigarh||Covid: Ludhiana logs 5 fresh cases||As many as five fresh cases of coronavirus were reported from the district on Sunday. However, no case of Omicron variant has been detected from the district yet. The health department has sent samples of these five new patients for the genome sequencing test.According to the reports shared by district administration, number of active patients in the district has mounted to 35, of which 31 are home isolated and four are undergoing treatment in private hospitals.The total number of positive cases of coronavirus reported so far in the district is 87,703, of which 85,554 have recovered. Around 2,114 have succumbed to Covid.With the union health ministry warning against the new highly transmissible variant, the Punjab health department had issued an advisory asking frequent international travellers and NRIs visiting Punjab to go through mandatory coronavirus tests.If tested positive, passengers will have to go through genome sequencing test to ensure that they have not been infected by the new strain.No case of dengue was reported on Sunday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/covid-ludhiana-logs-5-fresh-cases-101639341905933.html
13-12-2021||Chandigarh||Mohali accident: Six-year-old boy, his mum among 3 dead as pick-up vehicle rams into car||Three persons, including a six-year-old boy and his mother, died on the spot while four others were injured after a Mahindra pick-up van collided with a Swift car near Sector-86, Mohali, on Sunday evening around 4pm. The deceased have been identified as Kriti Gupta, 30, her son Nivansh Gupta, 6, and their relative Anuj Bansal. While Anuj was driving the car, Kriti and Nivansh were seated on the front passenger seat. Three of their family members, who were also in the car, have suffered critical injuries and are in the intensive-care unit at Sohana hospital in Mohali. They have been identified as Usha Devi, Ananya Gupta and Raj Rani. The driver of the pick-up is also injured and under treatment at the same hospital. He is yet to be identified. Deputy superintendent of police (DSP) Sukhjit Singh said the family resides in Sarangpur village of Chandigarh and was returning after attending a bhog ceremony of a relative in Lehragaga town of Sangrur district when the mishap took place. The impact of the collision was so strong that the car overturned and an iron cutter had to be brought in to get the victims out of the vehicle.The DSP added that a case has been registered against the pick-up driver. Relatives of the deceased have been informed and the bodies have been kept in the mortuary of the Sohana hospital.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/mohali-accident-six-year-old-boy-his-mum-among-3-dead-as-pick-up-vehicle-rams-into-car-101639341844123.html
13-12-2021||Chandigarh||Himachal govt to consider demand of issuing OBC certificate for 3 years: Jai Ram Thakur||The Himachal Pradesh government has enhanced the OBC creamy layer income limit from ₹6 lakh to ₹8 lakh to extend the benefits of various schemes to the maximum population of the community, chief minister Jai Ram Thakur said on Sunday.He said in order to give adequate representation to Other Backward Classes in government jobs, 12% reservation has been provided for Class-I and Class-II posts and 18% for Class-III and Class-IV posts in direct recruitment by the state government.Thakur said the OBC Commission has been established in the state to identify Other Backward Classes in the state and on the basis of the recommendations of this commission, 52 castes have been included in the list of the OBC. He directed the officers to ensure that all suggestions that have come up in the meeting must be given due consideration. He said the state government would examine the issue of certificates to the OBC for a period of three years.He said the balanced and all-around development of the state was only possible when there was equal and balanced development of all the communities. He said the government was ensuring that all people of the state get better and equal opportunities for education, health and development.Social justice and empowerment minister Sarveen Chaudhary detailed various schemes launched by the state government for the welfare of the OBC community. She said that the state government was spending crores of rupees for providing pensions to the weaker and vulnerable sections of society.Chief secretary Ram Subhag Singh appealed to the members of the board that they should educate the Other Backward Classes regarding the facilities being provided for their welfare by the state government so that they derive full benefits of these schemes.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/himachal-govt-to-consider-demand-of-issuing-obc-certificate-for-3-years-jai-ram-thakur-101639341791654.html
13-12-2021||Chandigarh||Board exams | Centre at old school, migrated students fear harassment in Ludhiana||The fiscal repercussions of the Covid-induced lockdown had forced several parents to withdraw their wards from private schools and enrol them in government schools . However, many migrated students will now have to suffer ignominy of taking their first-term board exams at their former schools, the authorities of which are still loath to issue transfer certificates to these students, citing non clearance of dues.In marking an external exam centre to migrated students, the education department has acted against orders of Punjab School Education Board (PSEB) chairperson Yograj Sharma, who had issued an order last month saying that students enrolled in board classes of government, government-aided and PSEB-affiliated private schools in the state would now take final exams in their own schools.The PSEB order had read, “Students of Classes 8, 10 and 12 will have their board centres in their own respective schools like the students of Class 5.”The parents of migrated students, whose centres have been marked at their old schools, have approached the school authorities, seeking change of exam centre. A government senior secondary school teacher said, “Parents are worried that their children might face harassment at the exam centres, which have been marked as their previous schools, amid the ongoing tussle over non-issuance of transfer certificates and pending dues.” Around 200 students, who had migrated to government schools, have been denied transfer documents by their previous schools. Many students have moved court over the matter so much so that the district education department has formed a special committee to deal with such complaints.The students, who were unable to furnish a transfer certificate, were admitted to government schools after an order was released by the former education secretary (schools) on August 7, 2020, saying that in case a private school refuses to issue a transfer certificate to a student, heads of the government schools can admit the pupil after self-verification.Later, another order was issued directing government schools to admit students only after receiving all documents from them, including the transfer certificate, leaving students admitted on the basis of the previous order in a lurch. The PSEB chairperson said that most schools are self-centres, but schools with less enrolment cannot be centres. “Since the exams for Classes 10 and 12 are to start from December 13, it is too late to change the centres. However, students of Class 8 can contact us and get their centres changed.” 
13-12-2021||Chandigarh||Graft case: DSP among four cops booked for misplacing proof in Ludhiana||A deputy superintendent of police, an inspector and two assistant sub-inspectors have been booked for “deliberately misplacing proof” against a police officer who was caught red-handed, while accepting a bribe. The accused, deputy superintendent of police (DSP) Lakhbir Singh, inspector Inderjit Singh, and assistant sub-inspectors (ASIs) Tarsem Singh and Surinder Pal, allegedly misplaced a CD with a video of the graft-accused ASI, Harjit Singh, taking a bribe. An FIR was registered against the accused under Sections 166A (public servant disobeying directions under law) and 217 (public servant disobeying direction of law with intent to save person from punishment or property from forfeiture) of the Indian Penal Code, following a court order. In 2017, the additional session judge had ordered the commissioner of police to conduct an inquiry in the matter, after the court had to let the graft-accused ASI go scot-free as the video recording of the incident had been misplaced. The commissioner of police had marked an inquiry to joint commissioner of police (JCP, city) J Elanchezhian, and a case has been registered on the basis of the findings. Joint commissioner of police (JCP, headquarters) Dayama Harish Omparkash said that no departmental action had been initiated against the four cops so far, “but appropriate action will be taken.” What was the case? Assistant sub-inspector Harjit Singh, who was posted at the Meharban police station, was booked for graft on September 21, 2012 after an accused in a cheating case filmed the cop accepting ₹5,000 for dismissing the case against him. The complainant, Baldev Singh, had produced the video showing the ASI accepting graft to senior police officials, after which a case was registered against Harjit Singh and he was dismissed from the force. However, the ASI was later acquitted as the CD containing the video recording had been misplaced from the case file.During the case, Lakhbir Singh was deputed as the assistant commissioner of police (ACP, Sahnewal) and inspector Inderjit Singh was the Meharban station house officer. The two ASIs were also posted at Meharban, and were probing the case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/graft-case-dsp-among-four-cops-booked-for-misplacing-proof-in-ludhiana-101639341543972.html
13-12-2021||Chandigarh||Hindu organisations lay siege to Jagraon Bridge, Ludhiana||Alleging police inaction in cases of cow slaughter and temple vandalism across the state, members of several Hindu outfits laid siege to the Jagraon Bridge for at least two hours on Sunday. The protesters, who laid cots on the bridge, gave a 10-day ultimatum to the police, and Punjab government to arrest the culprits, and said that a rath yatra would be held across the state after the stipulated time. They also questioned the chief minister’s apathy towards the issue, which was of great significance to the Hindu community. Commuters a harried lot Meanwhile, commuters were a harried lot, and the police had to divert the traffic to other roads to avoid snarls.A Hindu panchayat was also held on Jagraon Bridge to chalk out future plans. Punjab Shiv Sena chief Rajiv Tandon said that the culprits wanted to disturb the law and order in Punjab by killing cows and damaging temples.Mahant Narayan Das Puri said several places of religious significance to the Hindus had been attacked. “On July 9, the Shivling in Sarond village of Malerkotla was damaged, while on June 21, idols of Hindu Gods had been damaged in Kalodi village on the Sangrur-Patiala Road. In November and December remains of bovines were found in Malerkotla and Ludhiana, and on December 7 Hindu religious books were desecrated.” Question political leaders’ silence Puri also condemned the leaders’ silence on the matter. “The Hindus will remember this , while casting their votes in the assembly elections,” he added.  Among those who attended the protest were Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader Pushpinder Singhal, Jeevan Gupta, Gurdev Debi,Vikram Sidhu, Congress district president Ashwani Sharma, Punjab Lok Congress district president Jagmohan Sharma, SAD leader RD Sharma and Aam Aadmi Party leader Madan Lal Bagga.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/hindu-organisations-lay-siege-to-jagraon-bridge-ludhiana-101639341364155.html
13-12-2021||Chandigarh||MeT forecasts snow, rain in higher reaches of Himachal; Keylong coldest at - 8.8 °C||The MeT department has forecast rain and snow in the higher reaches of Himachal Pradesh on Tuesday.Shimla MeT centre director Surender Pal said a fresh western disturbance would likely affect the western Himalayan region from the night of December 13 causing a fresh spell of snow and rains in the higher reaches of the state.As per the reports, the higher reaches of Kullu, Chamba and Lahaul-Spiti also experienced mild snow on Sunday while the cloudy weather brought down the day temperatures in the plains.Meanwhile, Keylong, the administrative headquarters of Lahaul and Spiti district, was the coldest place in the state with a minimum temperature at - 8.8 °C. Kalpa in the neighbouring Kinnaur followed with a low temperature of - 1.4 °C.The famous tourist resort of Manali was cold at 0.2 °C, Bhunter in Kullu 1 °C and Sundernagar in Mandi 1.5 °C.Another hill station Kufri recorded a low of 2.7 °C while Dalhousie recorded a minimum temperature of 6 °C.State capital Shimla shivered at 6.2 °C, Palampur 4.5 °C and Dharamshala 6.6 °CManali gears for Christmas, New YearThe tourism industry of Himachal which was severely hit by the Covid-19 pandemic is expecting good business during Christmas and New Year. Hoteliers have reported a good response of the tourists this season. After the recent snowfall in Manali and nearby areas, there is a steady increase in tourist footfall. There is a good influx of tourists from Punjab, Haryana and Delhi during the weekend.President of the Manali Hotel Association Mukesh Thakur said the tourist inflow has increased in the last few days. “We are hoping a good business during the upcoming Christmas and New Year,” he said adding that 50% of rooms in hotels have been booked in advance.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/met-forecasts-snow-rain-in-higher-reaches-of-himachal-keylong-coldest-at-8-8-c-101639341246283.html
13-12-2021||Chandigarh||Jai Ram Thakur stresses on education of children of Gujjar community||Chief minister Jai Ram Thakur on Sunday directed the animal husbandry department to provide the latest scientific tech and better quality milch cattle to the Gujjar community to boost their income.He was presiding over the 21st meeting of the Gujjar Kalyan Board here.The chief minister said the state government was committed to the welfare and development of the Gujjar community and various schemes were launched for their socio-economic uplift in the last four years. The Gujjar community is mainly associated with animal husbandry and dairy business, so the animal husbandry department should equip them with the latest technology and provide them better quality milch cattle breed so as to strengthen their economy, said Thakur.He also urged the members of the Gujjar community to pay special attention to the education of their children. He said that the state government was committed to providing all possible help to the community in this direction.He also directed the officers to take immediate steps in this direction so that the children of this community were not deprived of modern education. He said it was necessary to provide education to the children of this community so that they could join the mainstream of society.The chief minister said the state government had provided the tribal status to the Gujjar community in 2003 when Atal Bihari Vajpayee was the Prime Minister of the country. He said this was done to ensure that the Gujjar community also gets adequate opportunities for development and progress. He said it was due to the efforts of the state government that the condition of the tribal people was far better than all other states.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/jai-ram-thakur-stresses-on-education-of-children-of-gujjar-community-101639341243881.html
13-12-2021||Chandigarh||Himachal government committed to welfare of Gaddi community: Jai Ram Thakur||The state police department has been directed to take immediate steps to check the theft of sheep and goats of the Gaddi community and take strict action against the criminals, chief minister Jai Ram Thakur said on Sunday.He was presiding over the 18th meeting of the Himachal Pradesh Gaddi Kalyan Board at Dharamshala.He said standard operating procedure (SOP) has been issued according to which the responsibility of the police administration has been fixed so as to ensure the safety of life and property of the semi-nomadic community.The chief minister said compensation should be provided without delay to the Gaddis on the loss of their sheep or goats due to natural disasters or the pandemic.He directed the officials concerned to ensure timely vaccination to protect their flock from various diseases.Directions were also issued to separately examine the issues raised in the meeting regarding the opening and upgrade of health and educational institutions in the tribal and hard areas.He directed the department concerned to ensure that no person transfers his grazing permit to other person.Thakur said it was during the Atal Bihari Vajpayee-led NDA regime that the Gaddi community was given the Scheduled Tribe status in 2003.He said all the Gaddi communities of the state had got tribal status much earlier but the tribal status was not available to the Gaddi community living in the areas merged in Himachal from Punjab in 1966. He said the state government would consider including adequate representation of tribal people in the Scheduled Castes Scheduled Tribe Commission.He said steps would be taken to make adequate provision of budget for tribal people living in non-tribal areas. He said that the state government has got ₹46 crore from the ministry of tribal affairs, Government of India, for the development of tribal people living in non-tribal areas in the last three years. “Apart from this, funds are also being made available from the state plans through various departments,” he added.The chief minister said ₹2.40 crore has been provided to Himachal Pradesh Handicrafts and Handloom Corporation during the last three years. He also directed the departments to keep in mind the development and welfare of the Gaddi community while making their plans. He also asked the animal husbandry department to endeavour to improve the income of the Gaddi community by providing the latest scientific technology to them. Tribal development minister Ram Lal Markanda said the meeting of the board was delayed due to the pandemic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/himachal-government-committed-to-welfare-of-gaddi-community-jai-ram-thakur-101639341186114.html
13-12-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: 25-year-old beaten up by 3 youths in road rage||In a shocking incident of road rage, three youths allegedly thrashed a 25-year-old resident of Sector 37 after he narrowly avoided hitting them when they were standing in the middle of the road. All three have been arrested.They have been identified as Vikramjit Singh, 21, Piyush, 21, and Harshit, 20, all residents of Sector 37-D. As per police officials, Vikramjit is a final year student at DAV College, Sector 10, while Piyush is studying in Post Graduate Government College, Sector 11. The victim, Rishabh Mahajan, who helps run his family’s shop, Mahajan Book Store in Attawa Sector 42, said he was driving home with his sister-in-law around 8pm on Friday when the incident took place. The accused, along with a girl, were standing right in the middle of the road. Their bike was also parked there. After he almost missed hitting them, he blew the horn. This enraged them and they started abusing him. As he got out after parking the car outside his house, the accused allegedly surrounded him and started thrashing him. He suffered a fracture on one of his fingers in the melee. When his elder brother, Amit, went to rescue him, the accused allegedly thrashed him too, and called more men to the spot. The entire episode was captured on a closed-circuit television (CCTV) camera installed nearby.The victim’s family claimed that the accused weren’t arrested on the spot even though they allegedly threatened them for life, in front of the cops. They further added that when Rishabh went to Government Multi Specialty Hospital (GMSH), Sector 16, for treatment the next day, the accused followed him and threatened him again. Victim’s brother, Amit, who is the complainant in the case, said the accused even pushed his wife repeatedly. A case under Sections 341 (punishment for wrongful restraint), 323 (voluntarily causing hurt), 324(voluntarily causing hurt by dangerous weapons or means), 506 (criminal intimidation) and 34 (acts done by several persons in furtherance of common intention) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) was registered at the Sector 39 police station and the accused were arrested on Saturday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-25-year-old-beaten-up-by-3-youths-in-road-rage-101639341184192.html
13-12-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana | ‘From water cannons to showers of petals, farmers’ movement has come a full circle’||“When we proceeded towards Delhi a year ago, we were welcomed with water cannons in the chilling winter, now we are being welcomed with rose petals wherever we go. What better ending to a non-violent protest!” exclaims Khanna-based farmer leader Rajinder Singh Benipal, who was among the farmers returning from the Singhu and Tikri borders where farmers had been demanding revocation of the three farm laws for a year. Benipal, who is affiliated with the Bharatiya Kisan Union, says, “The authorities had dug trenches on the highways to stop us. Many of my friends, who were in their 70s, were cane-charged. Some of them even died. However, in the end we emerged victorious.” Indeed, celebrations and festivities, followed the farmers as they returned home after laying a long a long siege on the borders of New Delhi. People were seen dancing to the dhol and distributing sweets to celebrate the farmers’homecoming. Sitting outside MBD Mall on Ferozepur Road where the farmers had pitched tents on the roadside as a temporary shelter, elderly farmers could be heard sharing tales of hardships and grit, audible even over the vigorous beats of the dhols.It was all worth it in the end, say farmers The end of a year-long struggle was a poignant moment for the farmers, and while they were happy to return home to their families, they were heartbroken over parting with their brothers-in-arms from Haryana and Uttar Pradesh. Gurpreet Singh of Dakha said, “It was an emotional moment for us. For nearly a year we were together. We had faced tough times, and also partied together. We suffered the vagaries of the weather, and also endured the barbs of those who branded us as terrorists, but in the end, it was all worth it. We do not know when he developed such a strong bond with each other,” said Gurpreet.Massive traffic jam at Ladhowal, PhillaurA huge traffic jam was seen at Ladhowal and Phillaur as different farmer unions, including one from Kadian group, who were returning from Delhi reached Jalandhar Bypass. Incidentally, road construction work was also underway at the NH-44, which compounded the problem. Serpentine queues of vehicles were seen on both sides of the road and anxious commuters were seen helplessly waiting in their vehicles.Finally, the Phillaur police led by station house officer Sanjiv Kapoor intervened and managed to streamline the traffic flow. “Farmers were scheduled to return from Delhi today, but at the same time road repair work was taking place on the NH-44 in Phillaur, which resulted in a traffic jam,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-from-water-canons-to-showers-of-petals-farmers-movement-has-come-a-full-circle-101639341004729.html
13-12-2021||Chandigarh||All eyes on ‘triumphant’ farmer unions ahead of Punjab polls||With the farmer unions emerging triumphant against the central government’s three contentious agriculture laws and their morale at an all-time high, it remains to be seen which political parties they will extend their support to in the run-up to the Punjab assembly elections. But interestingly, it will not be a single party as different unions have divergent political views even as they put up a united face during the year-long agitation against the farm laws. Bhartiya Kisan Union (Rajewal) faction president Balbir Singh Rajewal, who emerged as a key leader of the Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM), said on Sunday that their organisation will support a party in the polls. “We have supported different parties during the elections in the past. We will take a decision as whom to lend support once the polls are declared,” he said. The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) is learnt to be in touch with Rajewal and has offered him a key position in the government if the party comes to power in the state. Rajewal, however, denied of such offer from the AAP which is also believed to have reached out to the leaders of other farmer unions. The Majha-based BKU (Qadian) is expected to go with the faction led by Rajewal who in the past has supported the Akalis and the Congress. On the other hand, BKU (Lakhowal) head Ajmer Singh Lakhowal is close to the Badals-led Shiromani Akali Dal. He remained chairman of the state agricultural development board from 2007 to 2017 when the Akali Dal was in power. His son Harinder Lakhowal, who is general secretary of the organisation and also took active part in the farm agitation, said the SKM constituents can support any party of their choice. Jagjit Singh Dalewal-led BKU (Sidhupur), which has a stronghold in Bathinda district, is with the Lakhowal faction. BKU (Ekta-Ugrahan) head Joginder Singh Ugrahan has asked members of the faction to support political parties or candidates of their choice in the upcoming polls. The left-leaning organisation has the largest support base in the state, particularly in the Malwa belt. BKU (Dakounda), which claims itself to be politically neutral, is not supporting any party. Union general secretary Jagmohan Singh said attempts were being made to bring different farm bodies on a common platform and contest the polls as independent candidates. BKU (Haryana) chief Gurnam Singh Chaduni has already been advocating for the farm bodies to take plunge in the polls in Punjab and has also toured the state to gather feedback on the ground. Channi to meet farm leaders on Dec 17 Punjab chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi has invited representatives of farmer unions for a meeting on December 17. In the meeting, discussion is likely to be held on complete farm loan waiver. In a meeting with farmers a fortnight back, the CM had promised to come up with a proposal and later wrote to Prime Minister Narendra Modi to jointly work out a formula for debt waiver. 
13-12-2021||Chandigarh||Man, son booked for assaulting son-in-law outside child, women cell in Ludhiana||High drama was witnessed outside the child and women cell in Rishi Nagar on Saturday after a man was allegedly assaulted by his in-laws after the couple had a matrimonial dispute. The victim, Shivam Malhotra, 31, of Neemwala Chowk, said that the accused attempted to kill him by stabbing him, however, police came to his rescue. An FIR was lodged against his father-in-law and brother-in-law, who have been identified as Sanjay Mago, and Vidhur Mago of Mohalla Bajriyan, Chauri Sadak.The victim said he had met his wife, Mehak Mago, on February 23, 2019. Soon after their marriage, she started harassing him and his family and a the case was under investigation at the child and women cell.Malhotra said that he had gone to the child and women cell for a hearing of the case, when the accused intercepted him on the way to the car and started assaulting him. The two fled after the cops rushed to his rescue. A case has been registered under Aections 341 (wrongful restraint), 323 (voluntarily causing hurt), 324 (voluntarily causing hurt by dangerous weapons or means), 506 (criminal intimidation) and 34 (act done by several persons in furtherance of common intention) of the Indian Penal Code.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/man-son-booked-for-assaulting-son-in-law-outside-child-women-cell-in-ludhiana-101639340704209.html
13-12-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana: Denied money, drug addict assaults friend with knife||A drug addict was booked on Sunday for allegedly beating up his friend after he refused to give him money to buy drugs. After the attack, the accused, Sheru, fled from the spot leaving his friend injured. The complainant, Jaskaran Singh, 37, of Dairy Complex said that the accused often met him at the Rishi Nagar market. “On December 1, I was returning home on my bike, when I met Sheru, who asked me for money to buy drugs, When I refused to lend money to him, he started thrashing me, and also tried to stab me with a knife.” Sheru fled from the spot after the accused raised the alarm. Assistant sub-inspector Amrik Singh, investigating officer from the PAU police station, said that a case had been registered under Sections 323 (voluntarily causing hurt), 326 (voluntarily causing grievous hurt by dangerous weapons or means), 341 (wrongful restraint) and 506 (criminal intimidation) of the Indian Penal Code. Though the incident was reported on December 1, the complainant filed a case on Saturday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-denied-money-drug-addict-assaults-friend-with-knife-101639340584015.html
13-12-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab polls: BSP announces 3 more candidates||The Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP), an alliance partner of the Shiromani Akali Dal in Punjab, on Sunday announced three more candidates for the assembly elections scheduled early next year. Former assistant inspector general (AIG) of police Harmohan Singh Sandhu was declared the party candidate from the Chamkaur Sahib constituency which is represented in the Vidhan Sabha by chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi. Kuldeep Singh Lubana will contest from Jalandhar (North) and Kamaljit Chawla from Dinanagar (Pathankot). The decision was taken in the party’s state executive meeting in Jalandhar. Interestingly, the three were declared candidates soon after their induction into the party on Sunday. Sandhu had left Shiromani Akali Dal earlier this year. His mother late Satwant Kaur Sandhu was a five-time MLA. In a press statement, state BSP president Jasvir Singh Garhi said they have declared 17 candidates of a total of 20 allotted seats so far.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-polls-bsp-announces-3-more-candidates-101639340464450.html
13-12-2021||Chandigarh||20 more test positive for Covid in Chandigarh tricity area||As many as 20 fresh infections of Covid-19 were reported in the tricity on Sunday. The day before the city had 11 cases. The maximum, 10, cases came from Chandigarh, followed by seven from Panchkula and three from Mohali. No deaths were reported from any of the three jurisdictions. With cases being reported in double digits daily, the tricity’s active cases tally is also increasing. The tally reached 166 on Sunday, with 72 patients still being infected in Mohali, 61 in Chandigarh, and 33 in Panchkula.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/20-more-test-positive-for-covid-in-chandigarh-tricity-area-101639340404367.html
13-12-2021||Chandigarh||Kashmir witnesses record tourist arrivals in November; snowfall in Gulmarg attracts more visitors||The tourist arrival in Kashmir in November crossed a seven-year high mark even as the overall visitors this year so far in the Valley almost reached 5.5 lakh, officials said.The early snowfall, Covid-induced global restrictions and vigorous campaign by the administration have triggered more inflow of tourists in the Valley as the union territory is upbeat and opening more offbeat and virgin destinations to keep the sector thriving throughout the year.Zeeshan Khan, assistant director, tourism department, said over 1.27 lakh tourists toured places in the Himalayan valley in November.“This is a seven-year high in November. Last year we had just 6,000 tourists in November,” he said.“Overall more than 5.49 lakh tourists came to Kashmir this year till December first week,” he said.Early snowfall in the Valley, particularly in Gulmarg, has also prompted more people to make way towards the ski resort with advance bookings in most of the hotels.“We are seeing a footfall of 4,000-5,000 every day this month. Up to December 6, we received 26,000 visitors,” he said.“Snow was a blessing in disguise. The December outlook is looking good. There is a full house at Gulmarg. There is hardly any hotel which is not booked,” Khan said.The month of October witnessed a record footfall of 91,000 – which is otherwise considered a lean month.On Saturday, on International Mountain Day- 2021, the tourism department released trekking maps of offbeat destinations and organised mountain biking and cycling events at Zabarwan, Pahalgam, Gulmarg, Naranag, Nowgam and other locations.“Kashmir valley is registering impressive tourist arrivals which have been the result of sustained efforts by the department in terms of sustained capacity-building of stakeholders, vaccination drives and promotions across markets in the country,” said adviser to lieutenant-governor, Farooq Khan during a tourism function held in Srinagar on Saturday. From Christmas last year, tourism had started picking up again as the Valley had witnessed heavy snowfall. Zeeshan Khan said they have their eyes set on Christmas, New Year and winter carnivals.“For the first time we are keeping Sonamarg open this winter. We are hoping December figures to reach 2 lakh. The way numbers are going up since September this year, our hopes will be fulfilled,” he said.Secretary, tourism, Sarmad Hafeez, on Saturday’s function said the department has devised an activity calendar for the coming seasons and they are planning to celebrate Christmas and New Year with renewed fanfare and festivity.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/kashmir-witnesses-record-tourist-arrivals-in-november-snowfall-in-gulmarg-attracts-more-visitors-101639340284072.html
13-12-2021||Chandigarh||Namaz row: Khattar’s remarks clearly targeted one religion, says Omar Abdullah||Former Jammu and Kashmir chief minister Omar Abdullah on Sunday lambasted Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar’s remarks that offering namaz in public places cannot be tolerated. Abdullah claimed that the target was a single religion. “The statement of Haryana chief minister and his decision is absolutely wrong. In our country, it is allowed to follow one’s religion publicly. I would have accepted if this prohibition (on namaz in public places) would have been followed for every religion. This is being done on a pick-and-choose basis and it indicates that the target is a single religion,” Abdullah told reporters on the sidelines of a rally in Anantnag. Manohar Lal Khattar on Friday said offering namaz in public places cannot be tolerated, even as the Gurugram administration withdrew permission for Friday prayers at 20 designated sites amid protests by members of Hindu outfits.The National Conference vice-president said that the country’s Constitution doesn’t allow this. “This is not that India with which J&K had acceded. J&K had acceded to a secular and tolerant India. The statement of the Haryana chief minister is highly condemnable, “ Omar said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/namaz-row-khattar-s-remarks-clearly-targeted-one-religion-says-omar-abdullah-101639340227496.html
13-12-2021||Chandigarh||Two held for drug peddling, 800g heroin recovered||Two people were arrested for peddling heroin in two separate cases, and 800g heroin was collectively recovered from their possession on Sunday.In the first case, the STF had arrested, Ashok Kumar, 24, of Mohalla Peeru Banda. The accused was arrested near his house, while he was on his way to deliver the consignment. The team had recovered 590g heroin, an electronic weighing machine, ₹23,000 drug money and around 50 empty pouches from his possession.Kumar runs a grocery shop and has been peddling drugs for the past three years. He already has a case registered against him for peddling at the Salem Tabri police station. He was bailed out around nine months ago. The accused said he had bought the contraband from one Bittu of Salem Tabri.In the second case, the police arrested Rana Goyal, 46, of Basti Jodhewal near Everest school in Moti Nagar and recovered 210g heroin. Goyal said that he was unemployed and had been peddling drugs for a year. A case was registered under sections of the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act against the accused.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/two-held-for-drug-peddling-800g-heroin-recovered-101639340223943.html
13-12-2021||Chandigarh||Condition of govt schools in Punjab abysmal, distressing: Arvind Kejriwal||Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) national convener and Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Sunday issued a video message, calling the state of government schools in Punjab “abysmal and distressing”. Kejriwal alleged that the future of over 24 lakh underprivileged and scheduled caste (SC) students was in the dark because the Punjab government did not want them to excel. “The teachers of Punjab are very good but they have been harassed to such an extent that they have lost all hope in the system,” he claimed. The Delhi CM said his government had completely revolutionised schools and changed the face of government education in the national capital. “Like Delhi, we will transform the education system and build world-class schools in Punjab,” he said in the message addressed to government school teachers and students from the poll-bound state. He also talked about the fragility of Punjab’s education system and the state government’s false claims regarding it and expressed deep concern for the future of the children. AAP MLAs Aman Arora and Gurmeet Singh Meet Hayer also welcomed and accepted the debate challenge given by Punjab deputy CM and health minister OP Soni. In a statement, the two accused Soni of “trying to mislead people” by claiming that Punjab is ahead of Delhi in every aspect on health front. “In a hurry to compare Punjab and Delhi healthcare systems, the minister forgot that Punjab actually needs a healthcare system according to nationally set norms and WHO standards,” they said. The AAP MLAs said that according to national norms in rural Punjab, there should be 700 plus public health centres (PHCs), but there were only 416. Similarly, around 200 community health centres (CHCs) were required in rural areas according to the population, but the state had only 87, they added. Arora said that 80% of the CHCs were without any specialist. He also challenged Soni to name one CHC in rural area that was providing the “perfect services” according to the national norms.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/condition-of-govt-schools-in-punjab-abysmal-distressing-arvind-kejriwal-101639340164012.html
13-12-2021||Chandigarh||126 Covid cases in Jammu and Kashmir, 4 deaths; Srinagar reports highest infections||Jammu and Kashmir reported 126 fresh Covid-19 infections and four deaths on Sunday, an official health bulletin said. Of the total cases, 111 cases and a fatality was reported in Kashmir valley and while the Jammu division saw 15 infections. All the four fatalities were in Kashmir valley. Kashmir reported highest 52 cases in summer capital Srinagar followed by 19 cases in Baramulla district and 11 in Budgam. As many as 17 districts saw single digit or zero cases.Srinagar district has the highest number of active cases at 528 followed by Baramulla and Jammu districts with 216 and 182 active cases respectively.The number of patients who were cured in the UT was 176 with active positive cases reaching 1,541.The government’s daily health bulletin also said that 20,499 vaccine doses were administered taking overall doses administered in the UT to 1.727 crores.The overall number of people who have recovered reached 3,32,835 prompting the recovery rate to reach 98.21%. Since the pandemic started, the overall cases in J&K have reached 3,38,871 and the death toll has reached 4,495.The officials said that 54,901 tests were conducted in the past 24 hours in the UT.The Jammu district has the highest number of 1,153 fatalities followed by Srinagar with 874 deaths.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/126-covid-cases-in-jammu-and-kashmir-4-deaths-srinagar-reports-highest-infections-101639340106975.html
13-12-2021||Chandigarh||Srinagar: Citing Covid concerns, authorities bar Mehbooba Mufti from holding youth convention||People’s Democratic Party president Mehbooba Mufti on Sunday accused the Jammu and Kashmir administration of sabotaging her youth convention at her residence in Srinagar in the name of Covid protocols and roughing up her workers. The police responded saying the local administration had advised the PDP to apply for holding this convention in a more open area in view of Covid-19 and security reasons.In a series of video messages on Twitter and then a press conference, Mehbooba said the administration remembers Covid-19 only when she decides to meet the youth of the Valley.“From the past one week, all the leaders and parties have been organising meetings and rallies in every corner of the Valley and when the PDP decided to do the same in my own home why were we stopped,” she said.“They are sabotaging (us). New ways are found to usurp the rights of youth here to take them away from democracy and push them towards violence,” she said.Later at a press conference, Mehbooba said they were preparing for the youth convention as all political parties were organising rallies in the Valley these days.“Congress, National Conference, Apni Party or People’s Conference –all are conducting meetings and we had also made a programme,” she said.She said they had written to the deputy commissioner for some space for organising the youth convention some time back. “But we got no response to that. Even Covid was not that much at that time,” she said.She said that when she decided to go for a youth convention the administration stopped her and sent her a communication citing Covid.“The youths were not only stopped but they were assaulted and roughed up. Their clothes were torn and their mobiles were snatched at places. A few were put in police stations,” she alleged. “Even today Omar Abdullah is holding a rally at Anantnag and two days ago, Apni Party had a joining programme,” she said.A police spokesman said in the convention a gathering of at least 1,000 people was expected.“Given the prevalent Covid situation and larger security implications resulting from allowing such a large number of people and accompanying cars and vehicles into a high-security zone, it was not advisable to allow such a large flow of people and unchecked vehicles,” the spokesman said.“There are credible inputs of vehicle-bound IEDs being used to target civilians and high-security installations. The Gupkar Road houses high-security buildings of various organisations and security-sensitive establishments and intelligence agencies. Allowing a large number of vehicles to be parked in this high security zone would have jeopardised the security in the area,” the spokesman said.“It is incorrect that Mehbooba is under house arrest. However, the local administration had advised the PDP to apply for holding this convention in a more open area in view of Covid-19 and security reasons,” the spokesman said.Meanwhile, Sajad Lone’s People’s Conference on Sunday accused the administration of denying them to organise a convention in Kupwara.“It is highly unfortunate that repeated requests by JKPC to hold a convention in Kupwara are denied due to Covid concerns while other parties are facilitated and allowed a free hand to hold public rallies, “ the party said in a tweet.Meanwhile, NC vice-president Omar Abdullah addressed a gathering at the Dak Bungalow in Anantnag.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/srinagar-citing-covid-concerns-authorities-bar-mehbooba-mufti-from-holding-youth-convention-101639340105805.html
13-12-2021||Other||Jaish terrorist killed in encounter in Kashmir’s Pulwama||The security forces on Sunday said they killed a local Jaish-e-Mohammad (JeM) militant in an encounter in south Kashmir’s Pulwama district.The police said they along with the Army’s 42 RR and CRPF’s 130 battalions cordoned off the Bargam area of Awantipora based on specific information.A police spokesman said during the searches, as the presence of the trapped militant was ascertained, he was given ample opportunities to surrender.“However, he denied the surrender opportunities and fired indiscriminately upon the joint search party which was retaliated leading to an encounter. In the ensuing encounter, the trapped terrorist was killed,” the spokesman said.Army spokesperson Lt Col Emron Musavi said a joint operation was launched early morning on Sunday based on the Jammu Kashmir Police inputs.“The area was cordoned and contact established. The firefight resulted in one terrorist being killed and warlike stores were recovered,” he said.The body retrieved from the site of the encounter was identified as Sameer Ahmad Tantray, a resident of Bargam Awantipora.The police spokesman claimed that the slain militant was a categorised terrorist linked with proscribed terror outfit JeM and was part of groups involved in several terror crime cases.“Before joining terror folds, he was working as a terrorist associate and involved in providing logistic support to the active terrorists in the area. He was also involved in pasting threatening posters of proscribed terror outfits in Awantipora and adjoining areas to threaten the law-abiding citizens and keep them away from democratic activities,” the spokesman said.The police have registered a case under relevant Sections of law and an investigation has been initiated.“People are requested to cooperate with police till the area at the encounter site is completely sanitised and cleared of all explosive materials, if any,” said the spokesman.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/jaish-militant-killed-in-encounter-in-kashmir-s-pulwama-101639340046174.html
13-12-2021||Chandigarh||Inviting Haryana CM for campaigning has shown BJP’s anti-farmer mindset: Chandigarh Congress chief||The BJP has again shown its anti-farmers mindset by inviting Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal to campaign in the city ahead of the municipal corporation elections, Chandigarh Congress president Subhash Chawla said on Sunday“How can BJP ask the Haryana CM to campaign in the city, as it’s the same leader who ordered that the farmers’ stir be crushed with muscle power by advising party cadres to take tit-for-tat action, pick up lathis and not to worry about the bail,” Chawla said.The Chandigarh Congress also lashed out at the Saffron Party over its claims to have made the UT safe for women. “The BJP has run out of ideas and is in total confusion and utter distress, which is leading them to make baseless statements,” said Congress spokesperson Rajesh Sharma.BJP Mahila Morcha National president Vanathi Srinivasan had stated a day earlier that the city has become safe for women during the party’s six-year tenure.“However, as per the official data available with National Crime Record Bureau (NCRB), the crime rate against women in Chandigarh has gone up in the recent years as 453 cases of crime against women were reported in 2017, 442 in 2018 and 515 in 2019. Even during the period of Covid lockdown in 2020, 301 such cases were reported,” said Sharma.“The BJP-led MC had made a three-fold increase in water tariff and also burdened the residents with new taxes and cess. But, the residents have now made up their mind to throw out the BJP from power and will choose Congress in the upcoming corporation elections,” he said.Cong campaign gets shot in the armThe Congress party’s campaign got a shot in the arm, when hundreds of AAP leaders and workers from ward no. 15 led by Rajesh Kumar Azad, chairman of Azad Jan Seva, Society Small Flats, Dhanas; Jaivinder Singh, president; Kiran Pal, general secretary; Ramesh, adviser; Mahavir Chauhan, secretary and Sulekh, Som Pak, Summari, Pramod Kumar, Sharief, Akbar and Chander Pal, all executive members, entered the Congress fold on Sunday.Rajesh Kumar and Jaivinder alleged that the genuine workers of AAP are being ignored and sidelined in Chandigarh by the party. “The manipulators and opportunists have hijacked the party. This is leading to suffocation of hard-working workers of AAP, who are leaving the party in hoards,” they said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/inviting-haryana-cm-for-campaigning-has-shown-bjp-s-anti-farmer-mindset-chandigarh-congress-chief-101639339865329.html
13-12-2021||Chandigarh||CM Channi, Randhawa, Sidhu coercing cops to implicate me, Majithia in false cases: Sukhbir Badal||Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) president Sukhbir Singh Badal on Sunday accused Punjab chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi, home minister Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa and state Congress chief Navjot Singh Sidhu of coercing senior police officers to register false cases against him and his party MLA Bikram Singh Majithia.Talking to mediapersons after addressing rallies in support of party candidate Harinderpal Singh Chandumarja in Sanaur, Sukhbir said the Congress had taken over the police department to act against senior SAD leaders. “Conscientious police officers have refused to obey these extra-constitutional orders and this is why two officers of the Bureau of Investigation – Arpit Shukla and Varinder Kumar — have been changed in quick succession while incumbent director SK Asthana has proceeded on leave,” he said. Claiming that the Congress was resorting to vendetta to divert attention from its failures, the SAD leader said attempts were being made to implicate Majithia in a false case days before the imposition of the model code of conduct. “We had earlier exposed a conspiracy to implicate me in a false case through a former party worker. It was proved when the said worker made the same allegations we had referred to beforehand,” he added.Instead of resolving the grievances of people, the CM is playing politics on the drug issue after having failed miserably to contain the menace even, he alleged. Sukhbir also slammed the CM for raking up the land ceiling issue “which was settled decades ago”. “A government missive to revenue department officials to verify surplus land would only result in harassment of land owners and encourage corruption. This is another example of ways and means by which the Congress government is trying to divert attention from its failures,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/cm-channi-randhawa-sidhu-coercing-cops-to-implicate-me-majithia-in-false-cases-sukhbir-badal-101639339864046.html
13-12-2021||Chandigarh||Train services hit as labour unions block tracks in Punjab for 4 hours||Train services were affected in Punjab on Sunday after thousands of members of labour unions blocked the railway tracks for nearly four hours in support of their demands. A Ferozepur railway division spokesperson said of a total of 19 trains affected, 14 were delayed and five were rescheduled. The movement of trains in Punjab under the Ambala and Delhi divisions was also affected.Union leaders said their demands included seeking plots for the homeless, reinstallation of electricity meters, punishing those committing atrocities on scheduled castes (SCs) and 25 per cent reservation for workers for ₹50,000 loan in co-operative societies. The protesters staged dharnas at Mananwala in Amritsar, Dhilwan in Kapurthala, Sunam in Sangrur, Gidderbaha in Muktsar and Ajitwal in Moga district besides Phillaur, Bathinda, Mansa and Faridkot district headquarters from 12 noon to 4pm. The Punjab Khet Mazdoor Union, an affiliate of the Bhartiya Kisan Union (Ekta Ughrahan), had given a call to suspend rail services to register their opposition to the Charanjit Singh Channi-led Punjab government. Union general secretary Lachman Singh Sewewala said, “Homeless and needy continue to remain without residential plots. The Channi government has failed to initiate any step to bring justice in cases of atrocities on Dalits. The government has failed to work on the demands raised by us.”In a joint statement, leaders of the Sanjha Mazdoor Morcha comprising various labour unions said that if the government does not implement their demands they will intensify their agitation. “We will plan our future course of action in a meeting on December 15,” they added. The morcha leaders alleged that the Congress high command changed its chief minister in Punjab to cover up its failures of four-and-a-half years. Even the present dispensation continues with its anti-labour policies, they said. “CM Charanjit Singh Channi is refusing to provide plots and reinstall electricity meters which were removed due to non-payment of bills. Channi is making big announcements ahead of state assembly elections to misguide the people but nothing is being implemented on the ground,” they added. They also demanded suspension of a deputy superintendent of police (DSP) from the CM’s security detail who lathicharged unemployed youths in Mansa a few days back.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/train-services-hit-as-labour-unions-block-tracks-in-punjab-for-4-hours-101639339745519.html
13-12-2021||Chandigarh||Rape allegations against Bains: Contempt notice to bureau director, DIG for re-investigating case||The court of judicial magistrate Harsimranjit Kaur issued a contempt of court notice to the Punjab Bureau of Investigation director, Chandigarh, and deputy inspector general of the police (Faridkot range) for re-marking an inquiry into the rape charges levelled against Lok Insaaf Party chief and Atam Nagar MLA Simarjit Singh Bains. Bains had filed an application with the bureau director seeking re-investigation of the matter and the inquiry was marked to DIG, Faridkot.The court in the orders said that as the police have already filed a charge-sheet in the case and the court has already issued multiple non-bailable as well as bailable warrants against Bains and others, no further investigation can be carried out without the permission of the court. The court said that the two officers had “committed gross and blatant violation of the directions of the Hon’ble Supreme Court. As such, necessary intimation in this regard be given to deputy inspector general police (Faridkot Range) as it would amount to contempt of Court.Counsel for the complainant argued that the accused are well aware of the proceedings pending against them. “Bains is openly conducting his political rallies and enjoying police security. The police are hand in glove with the accused and are not arresting them deliberately. Therefore, coercive methods are adopted and proclamations are issued against all the accused,” the complainant’s counsel said. The magistrate said that the court has “failed to appreciate” that the officers were conducting further investigation into the matter without permission of the Court particularly when a challan has already been filed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/rape-allegations-against-bains-contempt-notice-to-bureau-director-dig-for-re-investigating-case-101639339743983.html
13-12-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh MC polls: Congress writes to poll body over EVMs||The Congress has demanded that the EVMs to be used in MC elections be kept in the warehouse under proper security and surveillance and be removed from there only 2-3 days prior to holding of elections for the purpose of their distribution to all the Returning Officers at their respective strong rooms.This was stated by Subhash Chawla, Chandigarh Congress president, in a letter to the State Election Commission.“We have been informed that the distribution of EVMs to all the returning officers at their respective strong rooms will be done on December 12 and 13 for which the warehouse situated at basement of municipal corporation building, Sector 17 E, Chandigarh will be opened,” stated Chawla.In this regard, “It is hereby stated that Indian National Congress strongly objects to the early opening of the warehouse, where EVMs are presently kept,” said Chawla.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-mc-polls-congress-writes-to-poll-body-over-evms-101639339683819.html
13-12-2021||Other||Gurugram woman duped of ₹6.3 lakh on pretext of upgrading SIM card||A 48-year-old woman was allegedly duped of ₹6.3 lakh by unidentified persons on the pretext of upgrading her mobile phone’s SIM card from 3G to 4G technology. The victim, Nisha Chopra, a resident of DLF Phase 1, in her complaint to police alleged that she was first contacted by the cybercriminals on December 7 through a text message. “Around 9pm on December 7, I received a text message from an unidentified number which read ‘Dear AirTel user, your SIM card has been closed today. Please update your SIM’. The sender asked me to call them at a mobile number immediately. When I called at the given number, a person pretending to be an executive of a private bank asked for my bank details, to which I refused,” she said. Police said that during the call, the unidentified caller hacked the victim’s phone and obtained the details of her bank account and debit card. “A total amount of ₹6.34 lakh was transferred from my bank account in several transactions,” said Chopra. The victim said she registered a complaint with the bank’s customer care also as the money was withdrawn despite her not sharing any OTP (one time password) or any other bank details with anyone. Based on her complaint, a case was registered at the Cyber police station on Saturday against unidentified person(s) under Section 420 (cheating) of the Indian Penal Code and Section 66D of the IT Act, police said. “A probe in the matter is underway. The cyber cell is working on tracing the transactions. Due legal action will be taken,” said Bijender Singh, station house officer of the police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/gurugram-woman-duped-of-6-3-lakh-on-pretext-of-upgrading-sim-card-101639339564096.html
13-12-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: Five booked for thrashing two Mohali men||A Mohali resident, Shivam Dhiman, was on Saturday evening beaten by five people in Ramdarbar after he found his stolen car parked in the neighbourhood. As per police, Dhiman had filed a complaint at the Phase 11 police station about his sister’s stolen car, which he spotted outside a shop during a work-related visit to Ramdarbar. Dhiman tried to call the police and record video of the parked vehicle, when the owner of the shop, identified as Sumit Khural, stepped out with his brother and started hitting his vehicle and threatening him.Later, on his way to the police beatbox, he was again stopped by the shop owner and his accomplices, Amit Khural, Main Pal Khural and two others. As per the available information, the weapon-wielding group of men broke the windshield of the complainant’s car and started beating him and his uncle before giving them death threats. The victims were eventually rescued by Police Control Room staff. Both men have sustained serious injuries on the head.A case under sections 323 (voluntarily causing hurt), 341 (punishment for wrongful restraint), 506 (criminal intimidation), 427 (mischief causing damage to the amount of fifty rupees) and 34 (acts done by several persons in furtherance of common intention) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) was registered at the Sector 31 police station against the five accused on Sunday. Officials of the police station remained unavailable for comment regarding arrests.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-five-booked-for-thrashing-two-mohali-men-101639339388877.html
13-12-2021||Gurugram||Gurgaon Muslim Council members to meet deputy commissioner on Monday||A delegation of Gurgaon Muslim Council will meet Gurugram deputy commissioner on Monday to ask about the alternative sites for performing Friday prayers in the city, after permission for 20 designated locations was withdrawn following continued protests by the right-wing Hindu outfits, and following chief minister ML Khattar’s remarks on Friday that namaz in open public spaces will not be tolerated. Altaf Ahmad, spokesperson for the Gurgaon Muslim Council, said a delegation will meet the deputy commissioner on Monday since the chief minister on Friday said that the Muslims need to discuss alternative sites for Friday prayers with the district administration. “Around five lakh Muslims stay or work in Gurugram, while there are only two mosques in new Gurugram and 11 in the old city with a total capacity of 15,000 people even if offer the Juma namaz in several jamaats (shifts). Hence, it’s extremely important that alternative sites are assigned to the Muslims until the Haryana Shehri Vikas Pradhikaran (HSVP) approves land for building multi-story mosques,” he said. “The state Waqf Board and the administration have not been able to get waqf properties vacated from encroachers. Who is being held responsible for the same,” he said, referring to suggestions that the Muslims should use waqf properties to offer namaz or build mosques. When contacted, a senior district administration official said they were waiting for “new orders from the state government”, based on which they will discuss the issue with both parties (Hindus and Muslims).Sanjeev Balhara, assistant commissioner of police, said they have not received the new plan of action, and added that the “new orders are expected to come by Monday”. “The deployment (for Friday prayers) will be decided on Monday after fresh directions are received,” he said. The protest against Friday namaz in open public spaces has been taking place in Gurugram since 2018. The same year, the administration designated 37 sites for Muslims to perform the Friday prayers. However, in November this year, the number of sites was cut down to 20 after members of the right-wing outfits continued to protest and disrupt prayers. Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar on Friday said offering namaz in public places cannot be tolerated, even as the district administration withdrew permission for Friday prayers at 20 designated sites. “Such programmes (namaz) should not be held in the open. This practice of offering namaz at public spaces will not be tolerated as it is leading to controversies and confrontations. We have given directions to the police and administration to resolve the issue amicably. We will not allow any confrontation, and try to resolve it,” the chief minister said Hindu outfits on Sunday said the issue has been resolved, according to them, after the CM made it clear that namaz will not be performed in open spaces. They said they will protest only if people still try to pray in public spaces. Kulbhushan Bhardwaj, legal advisor for Sanyukt Hindu Sangarsh Samiti, a Hindu umbrella body leading protests against namaz, said, “Since the government has taken a decision that a no namaz will be offered in the open, the matter is resolved. We will only protest if anyone tried to violate the order and start offering prayers in open,” he said. Praveen Yadav, a Samiti member, said they will deploy people at a few sites. “We can’t leave the situation to police or administration. We will have to ensure that all public spaces are protected and Hindu groups are deployed to stop Muslims from performing namaz,” he said. 
13-12-2021||Chandigarh||Mohali couple reunites after 9-year-long separation at Lok Adalat session||Following a series of sessions at the pre-Lok Adalats and counselling at the National Lok Adalat, a couple who had been living separately for the last nine years, agreed to reunite. The agreement was arrived at during Saturday’s Lok Adalat held in Mohali. The couple was given an opportunity to interact with each other directly and a healthy reinitiate dialogue. The session of the Lok Adalat was held under RS Rai, chairman of the District Legal Services Authority, Mohali Nagar. Arun Gupta and Dr. Mandeep Mittal, member and additional member secretary of Punjab State Legal Services Authority respectively also participated.A total of 17016 cases were taken up during the National Lok Adalat. Out of those, 3818 cases concluded with mutual compromise; a cumulative amount of ₹5,61,99,55,703 was passed by the different Lok Adalat benches. Baljinder Singh, secretary of the District Legal Services Authority, discussed the benefits of the Lok Adalat.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/mohali-couple-reunites-after-9-year-long-separation-at-lok-adalat-session-101639339084122.html
13-12-2021||Chandigarh||BJP changed face of Chandigarh: Haryana CM||Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal on Sunday said the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) has changed the face of politics in Chandigarh during the last five years. Now elections are being contested in the name of development done by BJP, he said.Khattar was addressing an election rally in Sector-39 in support of party candidate Ravinder Rawat from ward number 27 on Sunday. Earlier, Khattar addressed public meetings in support of party candidates Savita Gupta from ward number 4; Nitika Gupta, party candidate from ward number 5; Sarabjit Kaur, BJP candidate from ward number 6, at Rana Haveli in Manimajra and in support of party candidate Usha from ward number 16 Sector in Sector 25.Khattar said that there was a time when Chandigarh and its corporation were remembered only for scams, but ever since the BJP government came to the centre and Chandigarh, only development is being talked about here. Mayor Ravikant Sharma, while countering the Covid cess allegations posed by Congress, clarified that the revenue generated by the municipal corporation is being spent on Covid relief and other health facilities. The mayor informed during a press briefing held at Kamalam, the party office, the MC managed to collect a sum of ₹28 crore in the form of Covid cess during the global pandemic, which is now being spent on various relief works and health services.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/bjp-changed-face-of-chandigarh-haryana-cm-101639338966582.html
13-12-2021||Chandigarh||Panchkula: Man held with 2,800 illegal tablets||A team of Haryana Drug Control Bureau, in collaboration with the local police, on Sunday arrested a 65-year-old man with over 2,800 illegal drug tablets. The accused has been identified as Bahadur Singh. An NDPS case has been registered at Chandimandir. MORE NEWS IN BRIEFSWoman’s purse stolen near Durga Nursery A woman’s purse was stolen from her Creta SUV in front of Durga Nursery in Shastri Nagar, Manimajra, on Saturday. As per the police, Harinder Mahajan, a resident of Sector 19, was visiting the nursery, where a youth tricked her into stepping out of her car, while an accomplice stole her purse. Mahajan realised the purse was missing after arriving home. The purse contained ₹5,000 cash, two credit cards, a debit card, a few documents and a mobile phone, she claimed. A case under Section 379 (theft) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) has been registered against unidentified persons at the IT Park police station. HC RWA holds event to introduce poll candidatesThe residents’ welfare association (RWA) of Modern Housing Complex (MHC), Sector 13, on Sunday organised an interactional event with all women candidates from Ward No 6 for the upcoming local body elections. “Each candidate was given an opportunity to introduce herself and spell out the vision for development of the ward,” said Col (retd) Gursewak Singh, president of the association. Farmers’ stir caused losses worth ₹1 lakh crore: Ambala MPRattan Lal Kataria, member of parliament from the Ambala constituency, on Sunday claimed that the farmer agitation, which has now been called off, caused a loss of ₹1 lakh crore to the national exchequer. Half of the loss was incurred by Haryana, Kataria further claimed. “Due to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, a solution to this problem has been found. Our state faced a loss of ₹50,000 crore, primarily in Sonepat and Bahadurgarh, where the industrial operations remained shut for over a year,” Kataria said, after attending Geeta Jayanti celebrations at the Ram Bagh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/panchkula-man-held-with-2-800-illegal-tablets-101639338783925.html
13-12-2021||Chandigarh||20-year-old man from Italy is Chandigarh’s first Omicron case||A 20-year-old man, who had recently come from Italy to visit his relatives in the city, has become Chandigarh’s first Omicron case. The genome sequencing reports were received on Saturday night, Chandigarh health officials said on Sunday. “After receiving the genome reports on Saturday, we again tested the man and his seven contacts. While the man has now tested negative for Covid-19, five of his contacts have tested positive for the virus. The result of one of the contact is still awaited while another has tested negative,” said Dr Suman Singh, director health services (DHS), Chandigarh.The man, who has been under institutional quarantine at Manimajra civil hospital for 11 days, will now be shifted to seven-day home quarantine as he has tested negative, Dr Singh said. His contacts will also be continuing home quarantine.Dr Singh added that the man is fully vaccinated with the Pfizer vaccine, which he took in Italy, and remained asymptomatic throughout the infection period. “He did not even get a fever but we kept monitoring his health to ensure he is fine,” Dr Suman added. Had landed in Amritsar on November 22 The 20-year-old had landed at Sri Guru Ram Das Ji International Airport, Amritsar, on November 22, but tested negative for Covid-19 at the time. Later, he travelled to Chandigarh to meet his relatives who stay in Manimajra. As per protocol, he was put under home quarantine and re-tested on December 1, when he completed the eight-day quarantine period. In the second test, he was found infected with the virus. Due to his travel history, the health officials sent his samples for genome sequencing at National Centre for Disease Control (NCDC), Delhi, to check for the variant of concern. He was also immediately shifted to institutional quarantine at Manimajra civil hospital while seven of his high-risk contacts were put under quarantine and tested for Covid-19 on December 1. All of them were found negative for Covid-19 in the test conducted on December 1.The World Health Organisation has warned that the risk related to Omicron (B.1.1.529) strain is “very high”. First detected in South Africa, the “highly divergent” strain has been spreading rapidly across the globally, with at least 33 cases detected across India till Saturday. The health department appealed to all residents to follow Covid-appropriate behaviour and those who have not taken the Covid vaccine or have had only one dose to complete their vaccination at the earliest.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/20yearold-man-from-italy-is-chandigarh-s-first-omicron-case-101639338664057.html
13-12-2021||Chandigarh||Military Literature Festival: Veterans revisit tales of valour||From crossing the Meghna River to heli-borne operations, the war veterans who fought during the 1971 Indo-Pak war shared tales of valour and experiences on the second day of Military Literature Festival 2021 on Sunday.The 1971 war is a glorious chapter of independent India’s history and for soldiers who fought on the frontline, it is still fresh in their memory. Speaking at the festival that is themed around the confrontation, Major Chanderkant Singh, VrC, said, “At some point during the day on November 20, we were told that we were to go across the border to capture Akhaura and not return thereafter, but instead turn south. So, I think the high command was well aware that a war will start in a few days’ time.”“Akhaura had a formidable defence and I think they had around 800 to 1000 troops here. For some reasons the Pakistanis could not visualize that we would get behind them and also attack from the south,” he continued.Shifting focus to the heli-borne operations, Squadron leader PK Vaid (VrC) said, “During the war, we were using the Mi4 which was a very basic helicopter and we could carry thirteen to fourteen passengers but we were going around 50% over capacity. On December 7, it was decided that we were to go to Sylhet, which was the first special heli-borne operation where we inducted troops behind the enemy lines,”“I briefed all my pilots that as soon as the troops arrive, we load them onto the helicopter and go airborne. Each of us made three trips each. When I went the second time, the Pakistan army had started surrounding the field and they were firing at us from all directions but our army was keeping them at bay,” he further recalled, stressing on the extremity of the entire situation.The troops underwent rigorous training to try and learn to execute elaborate operations on the battlefront. Speaking of the same, CS Sandhu, group captain commanding the 110 Helicopter Unit of the Indian Air Force, which was carrying out the heli-borne operations, said, “When I met General Sagat Singh, PVSM, for a briefing, he desired that we induct troops into the enemy territory during the night. I explained to him that this was the first time that the Air Force was to conduct such an operation during the night. After intense training, however, the troops were ready for the task by the end of October.”The 110 Helicopter Unit was later bestowed with the President’s Standard, the highest honour awarded by the President to an Air Force unit or Squadron. Recalling the moment, Sandhu said, “Later, we had the honour of receiving the president’s standard, following which the ward air chief visited the unit, complimenting them for their outstanding effort,” he added.Former governor of Jammu and Kashmir, NN Vohra, who was also in attendance at the event, joined the discussion, saying, “This war was not just a military event but this particular engagement had a very significant background. The authorities in East Pakistan (now Bangladesh) were indulging in ruthless hegemony, eliminating a population of one community. The military generals ruling from Islamabad had given strict orders not to spare anyone and enforce the law.”“As a result of ruthless carnage in East Pakistan, millions of Bangladeshis started entering India from early winters in 1971, with the number going up. The Indian government at that time tried all means to persuade the leadership of Pakistan to take back these people but they did not do it,” he added||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/military-literature-festival-veterans-revisit-tales-of-valour-101639338425835.html
13-12-2021||Lucknow||UP STF busts fake urea factory, 7 held||The Uttar Pradesh Special Task Force (UP STF) unearthed a factory preparing fake urea in Jagdishpur of Amethi district on Saturday night. The factory was supplying urea to farmers in as many as five districts including Amethi, Barabanki, Ayodhya, Sultanpur and Ambedkar Nagar for past few years, police officials said on Sunday. STF arrested six people, including three from the factory in Amethi, one from Ram Sanehi Ghat, Barabanki and two others from Patranga, Ayodhya district. Those arrested include a father and son duo for operating the racket of manufacturing fake urea and supplying to farmers of adjoining districts. A STF press note stated Anurag Shukla and Manish Awasthi were arrested from the factory and huge quantity of fake urea, material used for its preparation, empty packets of different urea companies, packaging machines and other things were recovered. A STF official said the factory was operated by Anurag Shukla and his father Amar Nath Shukla following which the latter was arrested later. “On the basis of information extracted from the trio, the raid was thereafter conducted in a godown in Ram Sanehi Ghat, Barabanki from where Vimal Kumar Verma was arrested and huge quantity of fake urea was recovered,” he stated. The official said information about two more godowns of fake urea was revealed on interrogation of Vikas following which further raids were carried out in two godowns in Patranga, Ayodhya from where Divyansh Gupta and Vikas Kumar Gupta were arrested. The names of two more persons including Vikas Kumar Gupta’s uncle Sonu Gupta and one Pawan Kumar Gupta had surfaced in this fake urea manufacturing and supply racket, he added. The official said the arrested persons have been handed over to the local police stations after registering an FIR of fraud, forgery and using fake material as genuine one. He said further efforts are on for the arrest of the remaining two accused whose involvement surfaced in the matter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/up-stf-busts-fake-urea-factory-7-held-101639338063953.html
13-12-2021||Dehradun||Uttarakhand’s first ever tree house to welcome tourists in Kumaon from next month||Uttarakhand’s first ever tree house is coming up in the Fato Range of Terai west forest division near Ramnagar in Nainital district. Its construction is almost complete and it is likely to welcome tourists from next month, forest officials said. “We are setting up our state’s first ever tree house in Fato Range. It is 40 feet high with double bed and bathroom facilities. Sal and teak wood have been used in the tree house,” said BS Shahi, divisional forest officer (DFO), Terai-west forest division in Kumaon. To attract tourists to the Fato range of forests in Ramnagar, a jungle safari is also on the anvil. It was to be inaugurated on Sunday but was postponed and now it is likely to be inaugurated on December 24. The tree house is located in the middle of lush green forests. This concept was conceived at the beginning of this year. Booking and staying facilities are likely to be provided from January. “We haven’t fixed the tariff for staying in the tree house; a committee of the forest department will fix the tariff. But a person will be provided a staying facility for not more than a week so that maximum number of tourists can enjoy the tree house experience,” said Shahi. Food for tourists staying in the tree house will be provided from the forest rest house, he added. “The tree house concept is a good idea to attract tourists in remote places of the forests. Hope more tree houses will come up in the future and will fetch revenue for the state government,” said Vikas Jindal, an industrialist and social activist belonging to Ramnagar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/dehradun-news/uttarakhands-first-ever-tree-house-to-welcome-tourists-in-kumaon-from-next-month-101639337823818.html
13-12-2021||Lucknow||2022 polls: Battle for east UP hots up as BSP, BJP MLAs join SP||The battle for 2022 assembly elections in eastern region of Uttar Pradesh (UP) is getting interesting. Influential Bahujan Samaj Party’s (BSP) Brahmin leaders from east UP Vinay Shankar Tiwari (sitting MLA) Kushal Tiwari (ex-MP) and Ganesh Shankar Pandey (former chairperson of UP Legislative Council) along with the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) MLA from Khalilabad seat in Sant Kabir Nagar Digvijay Narain Chaubey joined the Samajwadi Party in the presence of the SP chief Akhilesh Yadav at the SP state headquarters in Lucknow on Sunday. The BSP had already expelled Vinay, Kushal, and Ganesh last week after it was clear that the three were set to join the SP. Through these leaders the SP is expecting consolidation of Brahmin votes in east UP. Vinay Shankar Tiwari, son of Hari Shankar Tiwari, is an MLA from Chillupar constituency, Kushal is a former MP from Sant Kabir Nagar, whereas Ganesh Shankar Pandey was the chairman of the Legislative Council at the time of the BSP government. Vinay and Kushal are the sons of influential eastern UP leaders from Gorakhpur, Harishankar Tiwari while Ganesh is a nephew of Hari Shankar Tiwari. Speculation is rife that Harishankar too would join the SP soon. Hari Shankar Tiwari was the first public figure in Indian political history to be elected to the legislature from prison. Elected from Chillupar for the first time in 1985, he remained a member of the legislative assembly for 23 years uninterrupted. Tiwari is known face of brahmin politics in UP. He had been a cabinet minister in UP in BJP, BSP, and SP governments. Earlier in October, six suspended BSP MLAs joined Samajwadi Party in the presence of party chief Akhilesh Yadav in Lucknow. These MLAs include Hargovind Bhargav, Mujtaba Siddiqui, Hakim Lal Bind, Aslam Raini, Sushma Patel and Aslam Chaudhary. Uttar Pradesh is scheduled to go for Assembly polls in 2022. Previously, in the 2017 Assembly elections in Uttar Pradesh, the BJP bagged 312 seats out of the 403-seat Uttar Pradesh Assembly while the SP bagged 47 seats, BSP won 19 and Congress could manage to win only seven seats. The rest of the seats were bagged by other candidates. 
13-12-2021||Chandigarh||19-yr-old Panipat youth dies in Karnal, family suspects hate crime||Hours after a 19-year-old youth died at a hospital in Karnal, his family has claimed that he succumbed to the injuries that he suffered in beating received from the family of a 16-year-old girl for allegedly kidnapping her for marriage last month.Deceased Rahul Kumar, of Panipat, was a driver with a local businessman, and had allegedly eloped with the daughter of his employer three weeks ago.On complaint of the girl’s family, police had booked him under Section 363 (kidnapping) and 366-A (kidnapping for ransom) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) on November 25.His family alleged that on November 26, they were traced from the residence of a relative in Delhi and the youth was beaten up by unknown people. Later, they had admitted him at a private hospital in Panipat from where he was taken to KCGMC, Karnal. On Sunday, he succumbed to his injuries.His family accused the girl’s family of murder and demanded police action against the accused.Panipat Sector 29 police station in-charge Ankit said on complaint of brother of the deceased, an FIR has been registered against 14 people including father, brother, sister and other relatives of the girl under Sections 302 (murder), 365 (kidnapping), 342 (wrongful confinement), 323 (voluntarily causing hurt), 148 (rioting, armed with deadly weapon) and 149 (every member of unlawful assembly guilty of offence committed in prosecution of common object) of the IPC and investigation was initiated.Police said the cause of death will be ascertained after postmortem and action will be taken as per findings of the probe.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/19yrold-panipat-youth-dies-in-karnal-family-suspects-hate-crime-101639337343915.html
13-12-2021||Chandigarh||After meeting Vij, Haryana doctors postpone Monday’s strike||A day before over 1,000 doctors from across the state under the banner of the Haryana Civil Medical Services (HCMS) Association were scheduled to go on strike, state health minister Anil Vij on Sunday assured that all their issues will be resolved and the strike was postponed.The doctors held a meeting with the minister and director general of health services Veena Singh at the PWD rest house in Ambala Cantonment for more than an hour, where the chair was informed about all the demands.After the meeting, Vij said, “I’ve listened to the issues and will try to resolve all of them at the earliest. There is no need for a strike.”Doctors of government hospitals in state had last week announced that they will go on a strike from December 13 – out-patient departments (OPDs) of all government hospitals will be closed for the whole day, and emergency and postmortem services will also be shut from December 14 – if the demands are not met.State HCMS president Dr Jasbir Singh Parmar said Vij was informed about the three demands on which he assured action at the earliest.“We have postponed the strike and I believe there will be no need for it if the demands are met by December 31. We are compelled to announce such strikes due to insensitive bureaucracy who are sitting on our files for a long time,” Dr Parmar told the media after the meeting.The three demands include stopping direct recruitment of senior medical officers (SMOs), hiring of specialist doctors, and revision of the postgraduate policy.A member of the association said recently, additional chief secretary (ACS, health) Rajeev Arora had called a delegation of the aggrieved doctors for a meeting, who had later walked out “because of his misbehaviour”.“Vij was informed about this incident at the meeting. We believe due to direct recruitment, promotions of many officers in the department get affected. Moreover, nearly one-third of the specialists (700 against 2,000 posts) treat around 300 patients each daily against the required strength in acute mental pressure. Also, we are demanding a 40% quota for government doctors in medical colleges as per the Supreme Court guidelines,” the member said, pleading anonymity.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/after-meeting-vij-haryana-doctors-postpone-monday-s-strike-101639337165607.html
13-12-2021||Chandigarh||No need to thank anybody, farmers forced govt to accept demands: Charuni||Farm leader Gurnam Singh Charuni said farmers have forced the government to repeal the contentious agriculture laws and do not want to thank any political party or leader for this.“We (farmers) have forced the government to accept our demands by sacrificing the lives of 700 farmers. Rights have to be snatched, nobody just gives them,” Charuni said when asked whether farm leaders will thank the ruling parties for accepting the demands.“Farmers are excited as they have forced the government to bow to their demands. That’s why they are celebrating farmers’ victory over capitalism,” he added.Charuni said the Samyukt Kisan Morcha leaders will hold regular meetings to review the progress on commitments made by the government and the first such meeting will be held on January 15.“We have suspended our agitation following the government’s assurances on our demands. We need to keep an eye on the government and if we feel they are not moving in the right direction, we will resume the agitation,” he said on his way to Amritsar on Sunday.While returning from Singhu border, Charuni, along with hundreds of farmers, stayed at Karnal and participated in a nagar kirtan. On December 15, the farmers’ convoy will reach Amritsar to pay obeisance at the Golden Temple.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/no-need-to-thank-anybody-farmers-forced-govt-to-accept-demands-charuni-101639337045079.html
13-12-2021||Chandigarh||Delhi borders opened after farmers leave protest sites||A day after farmers camping at the Delhi borders since a year headed back to their respective villages in Haryana, Punjab and other states, the Delhi Police on Sunday removed multiple barricades put up at the Tikri border while the National Highway Authority of India (NHAI) employees started process to fill potholes on NH-44 which connects Chandigarh to Delhi at Singhu border.A senior official of the NHAI, pleading anonymity, said they have deployed 10 JCBs to fill the potholes on NH-44 on a 10km stretch and have filled 50% of the potholes.“We have opened the road for motorcycles and both sides of the road will be open by Monday. Movement for four-wheelers is likely to be started by December 15,” the official added.The Haryana Police had dug up potholes on NH-44 and the Rohtak-Delhi highway last year when farmers had started their march toward Delhi borders.A Jhajjar police spokesman said the process of removal of barricades has started at Tikri border and vehicular movement has been resumed.“Shops are likely to open from Monday and people going to Delhi every day can once again go in their own vehicles,” the spokesman added.The Delhi Police had installed concrete barriers and big walls at Tikri and Singhu borders to stop the entry of farmers into Delhi after the Republic Day violence.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/delhi-borders-opened-after-farmers-leave-protest-sites-101639336867238.html
13-12-2021||Lucknow||Lucknow: SGPGIMS to celebrate research day today||Lucknow The Sanjay Gandhi Postgraduate Institute of Medical Sciences (SGPGIMS), Lucknow, will celebrate its 2nd research day on Monday, a day prior to the foundation day. The day is celebrated every year by the institute’s research cell to acknowledge the work done in this field and incentivise the quality research. SGPGIMS director Prof Radha Krishna Dhiman said, “Since its inception PGI has given due importance to the research activities and has achieved significant progress in frontline research. It has been recognized as one of the leading and outstanding medical institutes for conducting exceptional researches. Scientists have brought laurels to the institute through their publications nationally and internationally.” Prof Uday C Ghoshal, the faculty in-charge, research, said, “The research is one of the three most important pillars of SGPGI. It helps in bringing quality healthcare to the patients adapted as per local needs in affordable cost and also facilitate in innovation and application, to fulfill the vision of the nation to make things in India,” he said. According to Prof Ghoshal, more than 200 papers have been submitted for presentation and 15 awards in different categories will be given on the foundation day. In contrast to the previous year, this year the students will present their works in addition to faculty members. Their names with their photos will be displayed on banners on the foundation day to inspire fellow researchers to do even better. The research cell will also acknowledge the success of 13 faculty members of SGPGI, who have been included within 2% of the world top scientists according to the survey from Stanford University, USA. Dr CP Chaturvedi, assistant faculty in-charge, research, said that celebrations regarding the day would be held on Monday and prizes would be given on Tuesday, in which faculty members, students and research scholars would present their works. Senior faculty members from other institutes such as KGMU, CDRI and RML will evaluate the works submitted. Moreover, external faculty members such as Prof Ananya Das from USA (third batch of DM gastroenterology alumnus of SGPGI) and Prof Sudipta Mukhopadhyay from IIT, Kharagpur and West Bengal will deliver motivational lectures to promote and guide the further research in the Institute.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/lucknow-sgpgims-to-celebrate-research-day-today-101639336623852.html
13-12-2021||Lucknow||Sunday Covid vax drive: Over 4 lakh people jabbed in Uttar Pradesh, 6K in Lucknow||LUCKNOW: Over four lakh eligible people were vaccinated against Covid-19 across Uttar Pradesh, including over 6,000 beneficiaries in Lucknow, during the special vaccination drives conducted on Sunday, according to health department data. Till 7pm, the state had administered 4, 10, 975 doses of Covid-19 vaccines, including over 1.60 lakh beneficiaries who got their first dose during the day. Vaccination is usually conducted between Monday and Saturday but vaccination coverage is being given a push with special campaigns on Sunday. “Many people have fixed office timings between 9am and 5pm or even more and they find it difficult to reach for vaccination. That’s why on Sundays, we are organising special drives to cover these left out people,” said Dr Manoj Agrawal, chief medical officer, Lucknow. According to health department, in Lucknow 6,669 doses had been administered till 7pm at 111 government and 14 private vaccination centres. Over 9,000 people had taken Covid vaccine jabs during the special vaccination drives organised on December 5 (last Sunday) in the state capital. “People should make use of Sunday vaccination drives as it is convenient for all with smooth traffic and no tension of office work. We are very close to getting vaccination coverage beyond 95% as 34, 52, 999 people have got their first dose in Lucknow against the target of 37.4 lakh,” said Dr Abhishek Shukla, secretary general Association of International Doctors. UP has administered over 17, 73, 04, 896 Covid vaccine doses till now.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/sunday-covid-vax-drive-over-4-lakh-people-jabbed-in-uttar-pradesh-6k-in-lucknow-101639336203610.html
13-12-2021||Chandigarh||No holiday in Punjab on December 23, clarifies govt||The Punjab government on Sunday clarified that chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi has recently declared a gazetted holiday on the birth anniversary of Sikh martyr Bhai Jaita Ji, and there will be no gazetted or restricted holiday on his martyrdom day that falls on December 23. Since the birth anniversary falls on September 5, the gazetted holiday will be included in the next year’s list, said the spokesperson. On December 23, all government offices, boards, corporations besides educational institutions will remain open as usual.Baba Jiwan Singh, born Bhai Jaita, was a Sikh general and companion of Guru Gobind Singh. He was with the tenth Sikh guru during the evacuation of Anandpur Sahib and died in the Battle of Chamkaur. Bhai Jaita Ji also wrote about the exploits of Guru Gobind Singh in his magnum opus “Sri Gur Katha”. The chief minister had declared a gazetted holiday on his birth anniversary during a function to mark the martyrdom day of Guru Tegh Bahadur at Anandpur Sahib recently. It led to confusion regarding a gazetted holiday on his martyrdom day on social media platforms, which led to the clarification being issued by the government.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/no-holiday-in-punjab-on-december-23-clarifies-govt-101639336023754.html
13-12-2021||Lucknow||Lucknow: Germany returnee tests positive for Covid-19||LUCKNOW: Uttar Pradesh reported on Sunday 14 fresh Covid-19 cases, including an international traveller who returned to Lucknow from Germany and tested positive seven days after his arrival, health officials said. Meanwhile, Lucknow reported two new Covid-19 cases during the day, taking the total number of active Covid cases under treatment in the city to 31. State had total 143 active Covid cases at present, they added. According to the data from state health department, total 1, 77, 875 Covid samples were tested during the past 24-hours, of them 14 came positive. Till now, 8, 95, 31, 889 samples have been tested in the state. The Germany returnee, in his 40s, had tested negative when he gave sample on arrival at the Lucknow international airport. “As per the guideline, any traveller coming to UP needs to stay in home isolation for a week and give a repeat sample. The sample of the traveler, who came via Dubai, was taken after seven days and it came positive. He is in home isolation in Jankipuram,” said a senior health official. “Virus infection can take time to develop. Hence, a repeat sample is necessary, particularly, among travellers coming from other countries, keeping in view the chances of Omicron infection,” said Dr Abhishek Shukla, secretary general Association of International Doctors.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/lucknow-germany-returnee-tests-positive-for-covid19-101639335544240.html
13-12-2021||Delhi||Weekly Covid vaccinations in Delhi highest since early October||The pace of Covid-19 inoculations in the capital increased to almost 860,000 jabs in the week ended Sunday, the highest over a seven-day period since October 3, an uptick that comes amid persisting concerns over the Omicron variant of the coronavirus.Delhi administered 859,426 shots of Covid-19 vaccines between December 6 and 12, data collated from the CoWin dashboard showed, the most in seven days since the week ended October 3, when just over 1.05 million people were vaccinated. The city’s weekly vaccinations peaked the week before that, with over 1.16 million shots administered in the seven days to September 26, the official data showed.Over 14.4 million people in Delhi have received at least one dose of a Covid-19 vaccine as of Sunday evening, which translates to around 97% of the city’s population. Of these, over 9.7 million have received both doses.Daily vaccinations in the capital have picked up in the past few weeks, especially since news of the Omicron variant of Sars-CoV-2 emerged globally on November 25.In the seven days ended November 25, Delhi administered an average of 87,309 vaccines every day, according to the CoWin dashboard. A week later, on December 2, this number had shot up to 100,476 jabs a day. On December 9, it went up further to 128,120 doses a day.The seven-day average of jabs also peaked in the week to September 26, when 166,544 Covid-19 vaccines were administered on an average everyday.Two cases of the Omicron variant have been detected so far in the capital – the first was a person who returned from Tanzania, and the second was a man who landed in the city from Zimbabwe – while there have been 38 Omicron infections detected across the country.To be sure, the caseload in Delhi has remained very low and mostly stable since the fourth wave of Covid-19 in the city between April and May began to die down. As on Saturday, Delhi recorded an average of 52 fresh cases per day over the past week.Since the new variant appeared, the state government has made increased vaccination rates among the city’s population a priority. During an address on November 30, chief minister Arvind Kejriwal, while detailing the city’s preparedness to tackle any surge in cases, urged eligible residents to get their second vaccine doses soon.A Delhi government spokesperson attributed the jump in vaccinations to the state’s efforts.“Recently, CM Kejriwal issued strict directions to officers to ramp up awareness campaigns and reach out to each and every resident of the state and motivate them to get their doses. The Delhi government will continue to rapidly vaccinate eligible citizens and protect them from the spread of the virus,” the spokesperson said.Dr Jugal Kishore, head of the department of community medicine at Delhi’s Safdarjung hospital, said that the vaccination rates increased after the April-May wave of Covid-19, but started dipping again later on“In the last month, very few people came to get vaccinated. Even at the three centres that we have in Safdarjung hospital, the vaccination rates were very low. Now, due to the Omicron variant, people are once again realising the importance of vaccines. The rate of second doses have increased. Human psychology is such that fear drives action and compels people to take preventive measures,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/weekly-covid-vaccinations-in-delhi-highest-since-early-october-101639335306429.html
13-12-2021||Gurugram||Gurugram: Inmate of Bhondsi jail dies by suicide, probe ordered||A 28-year-old undertrial, who shot dead a 37-year-old senior manager of a road construction company in Sohna during a failed burglary attempt in February this year, allegedly died by suicide at Bhondsi jail early Monday morning, said police. Jail officials said the undertrial, identified as Bhim Singh Raghav from Roz Ka Meo in Nuh, climbed on to the closet in the washroom, tied a bedsheet to the ventilator and hung himself. The incident came to the fore when the jail warder was conducting his routine checking. The jail warder and security guards rushed him to the hospital, where he was declared brought dead, said police. A board of doctors conducted the post-mortem of Raghav’s body, following which it was handed over to his family members. Superintendent of Bhondsi jail Harinder Singh said, “The undertrial died by suicide early Monday morning. A judicial probe has been ordered in the case.” Raghav, who lived in a rented room in Sohna before his imprisonment, was lodged in the jail since February after he allegedly shot dead Rohit Sharma of Jalandhar in Punjab, who was working with an infrastructure company, which was awarded the contract of constructing an expressway connecting Gurugram and Mumbai. On February 23, Sharma was working at the site when Raghav reached the spot in his i20 car. When Sharma asked the purpose of his visit, Raghav pulled out a gun and allegedly shot Sharma, who died on the spot. Raghav allegedly confessed to the murder and revealed that he used to sell stolen materials to a supplier. He used to visit the company’s site office thrice a week, said police. Police said Raghav lost his job during the Covid-19 outbreak and was unable to make ends meet, due to which he took to stealing iron and steel from construction sites. The jail superintendent said they are trying to ascertain the reasons why Raghav took his life. “They have accessed the CCTV footage of the area and a special team was formed on Sunday to analyse the footage,” Singh said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/gurugram-inmate-of-bhondsi-jail-dies-by-suicide-probe-ordered-101639335243947.html
13-12-2021||Chandigarh||AAP will provide corruption-free govt in Punjab: Delhi health minister||Delhi health minister Satyendar Jain on Sunday said that the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) will end corruption and work for development of Punjab, if voted to power in the assembly elections next year. “The successive Akali and Congress governments have splurged public money on themselves,” said Jain, while addressing businessmen at Nakodar in Jalandhar. Jain said corruption and bribery will be eradicated immediately after the AAP forms government in Punjab and development works will be taken up for the benefit of common people. “In Delhi, any officer or employee found taking bribe is immediately sacked. In Punjab, too, we will establish a transparent and honest government like in Delhi,” he said.Taking a dig at both SAD and Congress, he said their leaders were afraid of AAP national convener and Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal. “They are always worried that if the AAP forms the government in Punjab, then their ‘loot business’ will stop and all their files (of corruption) will be opened,” he said.Assuring the traders that the AAP government would provide them financial security and facilities, he said the commission system or Inspector Raj will be completely abolished. He also promised that the AAP government will neither impose any new tax nor increase the existing ones.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/aap-will-provide-corruption-free-govt-in-punjab-delhi-health-minister-101639335123941.html
13-12-2021||Delhi||DDA seeks simpler process for property rights at unauthorised colonies||About 11,500 people in Delhi’s 1,731 unauthorised colonies have got ownership rights under the Centre’s Pradhan Mantri - Unauthorised Colony in Delhi Awas Adhikar Yojna (PM-UDAY) that was launched in December 2019, a senior DDA official said.The Delhi Development Authority (DDA), the nodal agency for the implementation of the scheme, has written to the ministry of housing and urban affairs (MoHUA) requesting modifications in the list of documents needed for processing the applications to further simplify the process so that people can be covered or benefit from the scheme.Till December 3, the DDA has received 90,700 applications of which approximately 21,000 were rejected as the applicants were found to be ineligible and 11,500 were given ownership documents (either conveyance deed to properties on private land or authorisation slip to properties on government land).DDA officials admit that the numbers are low as compared to the number of properties (approximately one million) in these unauthorised colonies that have close to four million residents.A senior DDA official said that a lot of applicants don’t have a registered Will, which is one of the main documents needed to get ownership rights under the scheme. “We can’t process the application without the Will even if the applicant has all the other necessary documents related to sale-purchase of the property. We have written to the ministry for permission to process cases without the Will document and also recognise registered gift deeds. We are yet to get a response from the ministry in this regard,” said a senior DDA official who asked not to be named.When contacted, there was no response from the ministry. DDA officials said the Covid-19 pandemic also impacted the pace of the work, as physical verifications couldn’t be done during the lockdown.To increase the number of applicants, the DDA in July this year started holding camps in unauthorised colonies, hired a public relations firm to aggressively advertise the scheme, and set up centres to assist people in the documentation work.“An important reason for the low response is that it is an open-ended scheme. There is no sense of urgency among people, as there is no cut-off date. We are internally examining this matter and might take it up with the ministry,” the DDA official said.Residents of unauthorised colonies say that there is a need to relax the norms and simplify the process. Brij Mohan Somani, a resident of Badli, said, “The process is cumbersome. People living in these colonies are not well-educated. There is a need to simplify the method and process the applications in a time-bound manner.”Naresh Kumar, a resident of Raja Vihar in Rohini, said one of the reasons why not many people are eager to get the ownership is because one of the main concerns of not getting a bank loan remains even after they get the rights.Kumar, who was among the first 20 property owners to get the ownership of his property under PM-UDAY in January 2020, said, “I had applied for a loan of ₹10 lakh to carry out construction work. The banks have refused to give me a loan against my property. They say that the building plan should be approved by the municipal corporations, which is not possible. The government should do something about it.”Sabyasachi Das, former planning commissioner in-charge at DDA, said, “The building plans in these colonies can’t be sanctioned as the layouts are not ready, and a majority of the buildings don’t meet the building byelaws criteria.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/ddaseeks-simpler-process-for-property-rights-at-unauthorised-colonies-101639335064137.html
13-12-2021||Delhi||North MCD staff to strike today to protest against non-payment of dues||At least 10,000 employees of the North Delhi Municipal Corporation including teachers, nurses and sanitation workers will go on a 24-hour strikeon Monday against delay in payment of salaries, dearness allowance and other dues, an umbrella organisation of the several staff unions of the civic body said on Sunday. AP Khan, convener of the Confederation of Municipal Corporation of Delhi Employees Union (CMCDEU), said the protest will take place outside the north MCD headquarters, Civic Centre, in central Delhi from 10am on Monday. “Since all rounds of talks between the union and the civic body over the payment of salaries and dues have failed to yield any result, we have no option but to protest to press our demands. Office-bearers of the north MCD have so far made only false promises, and are not willing to give us any assurance in writing. If the civic body remains indifferent to our demands, we will go on an indefinite strike,” he said.Employees said they have not been paid salaries for several months, and the dearness allowance is pending since July.Khan said the delay in disbursing the salaries and pensions has become a “routine affair”. “Since trifurcation of the municipal body appears to be the root cause of this financial distress, it should be unified; at least the finance wings of the three corporations should be brought together,” he said. The three civic bodies have been in a financial mess ever since the MCD was trifurcated, and have struggled to implement new projects and pay salaries to their staff leading to strikes. In the build-up to the 2022 municipal elections, the BJP, which has been ruling the three civic bodies for the past 15 years, has come under severe attack from the opposition which has blamed the crisis on the mismanagement and rampant corruption in the civic bodies. The North MCD maintains the largest area in the city (604.54 sq km out of 1484 sq km) among the three municipal bodies, and according to the civic body commissioner the liabilities of the corporation ( ₹8,800 crore) are more than its entire budget for the next financial year ( ₹5,808 crore).The paramedical staff of Hindu Rao Hospital, the biggest civic bodies-run health facility in Delhi, have said that they will join the doctors in the strike. ““We have received salaries till October, but our demand for clearing outstanding dues with increased allowances is pending. We have so far compromised keeping in mind the problems that the patients face due to strike. But now, we will support the confederation’s call for protest on Monday and our members will work only if there is an emergency,” said Tajender Kumar, one of the leaders of the paramedical staff union of the hospital. Category C and D workers at hospitals under the north MCD have also decided to go on a 24-hour strike on Monday. “Laboratory technicians, sweepers and other workers from Hindu Rao and Kasturba hospitals will take part in the 24-hour strike. Nurses from Girdhari Lal Hospital will also join us,” said Vinod Kumar Parcha, the president of the Hospital Employees’ Union. Kuldeep Singh Khatri, president of Shikshak Nyay Manch, an association of MCD teachers, said over 3,000 teachers will demonstrate outside the BJP’s national office if their salaries are not paid by Monday. “We had protested outside the BJP’s Delhi office over the non-payment of salaries on October 8, but none of the state BJP leaders approached us for the resolution of the issue. Our agitation has already entered the 14th day and nearly 7,000 teachers have stopped online classes. We have not received our salaries for last four months. Our dearness allowance too has not been paid since July,” he said. North MCD’s standing committee chairman Jogi Ram Jain said the representatives of the CMCDEU were not ready to accept the assurances by the civic body. “Civic officials have also approached the Union ministry of finance to discuss a possible solution to the existing fund crisis. Unless we get the funds, we cannot disburse regular salaries to the civic employees,” he said.Delhi BJP spokesperson Praveen Shankar Kapoor said the salary bills and other expenses of the civic bodies have gone up after the latest Pay Commission recommendation for 2021, but the Delhi government continues to release funds fixed in 2012-13 . “Due to this, three municipal corporations are facing an extreme financial crisis. If municipal employees go on strike, the people of Delhi will hold the Kejriwal government responsible,” he said.Senior AAP councillor Mukesh Goyal accused the BJP for adapting a dilly-dallying approach in dealing with the problems of the employees. “Instead of generating resources and getting special package from the central government to overcome the financial distress, they always play blame-game. To hide their failures, the BJP councillors always try to create ruckus, to suspend the House,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/north-mcd-staff-to-strike-today-to-protest-against-non-payment-of-dues-101639335003942.html
13-12-2021||Delhi||Delhi records coldest day of season on Sunday at 6.4 degrees Celsius||The minimum temperature in Delhi on Sunday fell by two degrees from the previous day, as the mercury fell to 6.4 degrees Celsius, the lowest so far this season, with cold winds from northern states bringing the chill to the national capital.Prior to this, the lowest minimum so far this winter season was 8.3°C on Saturday. The India Meteorological Department (IMD) forecasts temperatures to remain between six and eight degrees Celsius in the next five days as well, as it added that the maximum temperature could drop 2-3°C by the end of the week. Delhi on Saturday recorded a maximum temperature of 23.9°C — a notch above normal. RK Jenamani, IMD scientist, said temperatures across the northern plains have dropped over the past 48 hours, and added that he expected the mercury to remain in a similar range through the week.“Temperatures are dipping as cold northwesterly winds are blowing in from the snow-covered mountains. Clear skies also mean the night-time temperature can go fairly low,” he said.Temperatures in several parts of Jammu & Kashmir, for instance, have dipped to sub-zero levels. The mercury in south Kashmir’s Pahalgam fell to minus 6.4°C on Saturday.IMD’s forecast shows while the maximum temperature will remain around 24°C till Wednesday. It will start dipping from Thursday, and touch 21 degrees Celsius by Saturday.Meanwhile, Delhi’s 24-hour average air quality index (AQI) at 4pm on Sunday remained in the ‘poor’ category, improving marginally compared to the previous day. The AQI dipped to 254, according to the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) bulletin, down from 281 on Saturday. An AQI between 101 and 200 is ‘moderate’, between 201 and 300 is ‘poor’, between 301 and 400 is ‘very poor’ and over 400 is ‘severe’ as per CPCB’s index. Gufran Beig, project director and founder at the System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting and Research (Safar), a government forecasting body, says the air could hover between the ‘poor’ and ‘very poor’ levels over the next two days. “While light to moderate winds and a good mixing height will keep air quality within the poor range during the day, it can could hit very poor at night, when temperatures dip,” he said.Dipankar Saha, former head of CPCB’s air laboratory says Delhi tends to see another spell of ‘severe’ air towards the end of December as temperatures start to dip, with colder air generally heavier and more difficult to disperse. “Conditions become calm and wind speeds drop. There is also moderate to dense fog towards the end of December, which along with low temperatures, making it difficult for local emissions to disperse,” he said.IMD’s forecast shows the maximum and minimum are expected to hover around 24 and 8 degrees Celsius on Monday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-records-coldest-day-of-season-on-sunday-at-6-4-degrees-celsius-101639334823760.html
13-12-2021||Delhi||Blocked highway sections at Singhu, Ghaziabad may reopen in Jan: NHAI||The portions of Delhi-Meerut Expressway (NH9 аnd NH24) at the Delhi-Ghaziabad border and National Highway 44 at Singhu border that were shut for over a year due to the farmer’s protest will be opened for public from next month (January 2022), senior officials of the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) said on Sunday.Officials said inspection on both the stretches of NH-24, NH-9 аnd NH-44 will be conducted after December 15 – the time by which the farmers’ unions have said both sites will be cleared. It would take at least two weeks from then to complete all the repair works, they added.“We will start work once the farmers have fully retreated from sites. They (farmers) have said they will clear their temporary structures by this week. Immediately after the sites are cleared, our teams will conduct an inspection to assess the damage. After that repair and other maintenance works will be undertaken. People will definitely get to use those stretches of the highways from the New Year,” said one senior NHAI official asking not to be named.After over an year of agitation against the three farm laws enacted by the Union government in September last year, thousands of farmers who were camping on the borders of Delhi have started wrapping up the makeshift structures they called home away from their villages after Parliament scrapped the laws on November 29. The three contentious laws deregulated farm trade. A second senior NHAI official, who also asked to remain anonymous and handles both the highways, said a lot will also depend on the ongoing ban on construction activities in view of the hazardous levels of air pollution in Delhi. In case the permissions are not granted, opening of the stretches could be delayed further, he added.“We would open it quickly once the inspection is done. It may take about two weeks, subject to the permission of work being granted to us as currently there’s a construction ban in the city as part of anti-pollution measures,” the second official said.In their preliminary assessment, teams of NHAI found that the structural safety of the elevated portion of NH-24 may have been affected as minor cracks were identified at some portions. “Usually, we have dedicated teams for regular highway maintenance. But, no such routine activity has happened on highways along Ghazipur аnd Singhu for more than a year now because of the farmers’ protest. Our latest preliminary report suggests repair works will be needed,” the official said.Dependra Pathak, special commissioner of police (law and order, north zone), said the Delhi Traffic Police has started removing barricades and blockades from all the points that were used for the protests. “We have started the process of removing the barricades and blockades that were placed on the Delhi side. Agencies such as NHAI have also been informed about it. Opening of the borders for traffic will be done as early as possible,” he said.“At many places, roads were dug and filled with concrete to install iron spikes. The farmers built concrete structures on the roads, and at several places holes were dug in the roads to erect iron pipes to set up tents. All these issues need to be addressed by the agencies concerned,” said a senior police officer who asked not to be named.The Ghaziabad-Delhi carriageway of the Meerut Expressway has been shut since December 3 last year when farmers erected the dais at the site, hampering the movement of thousands of vehicles. The protest also resulted in the closure of the Ghaziabad-Delhi carriageway of the Hindon elevated road which ends at UP-Gate. As a result, people are having to spend an additional 40-50 minutes on the road to reach their destinations.“Either we take a 3-km detour from Anand Vihar while moving from UP to Delhi, or go through a narrow road passing through Ghazipur poultry market and Khoda Colony. A checkpoint at Khoda adds 30 minutes to one hour during peak traffic hours,” said Ankita Kumar, who has to commute for work to Central Delhi.Up north, with the city’s main exit towards Punjab blocked at the Singhu border for over a year, commuters were taking a detour through the colony roads on either side of the main highway. These included narrow single-lane roads that took commuters around the Guru Tegh Bahadur memorial, while similar routes on the other side of the road through Narela were opening up directly in Sonipat. These detours were largely causing a delay of around 45-60 minutes, depending on the traffic volume, several commuters said.The first NHAI official cited above said repair works at the NH-9 and NH-24 (Ghazipur protest site) is likely to take longer than NH-44 (Singhu border).
13-12-2021||Delhi||As dust settles at Delhi’s Singhu border, protest leaves little behind||As the dust settles at Singhu border, the evidence of a community of several thousand farmers thriving in the middle of a national highway is not too prominent anymore. With the farmers finally departing for their homes on Saturday morning after over a year, what remains at the border – the site which became associated with the farmers’ protest against the three farm laws — is only a handful of larger tents, the structure of the main stage covered in tin sheets and a few tractor trolleys being loaded with equipment to be sent back to Punjab and Haryana. During a spot check on Sunday, HT found that the main road is littered with some boulders and debris, with scattered potholes where tents were dug into the ground. However, the area has now taken over by locals busy inspecting the site of the farmers’ protest and what is left behind, as shops around the area begin to open up slowly. The main highway is yet to be made fully operational, with commuters still having to take detours from inner colony roads on either side of the highway. HT saw several earthmovers and cranes at work, removing and breaking the cemented barricades placed on the Delhi side of the border. “Both carriageways can be opened up only once all the barricades are removed and the road has been suitably cleared out. This will take a few days,” said a Delhi Police officer stationed at the beginning of the barricaded area. While the actual site of the protest has nearly been cleared up, among those who have stayed behind include members of NGOs like United Sikhs and the Life Care Foundation – each operating large enclosures with medical facilities and beds for those who became ill over the course of the protest. Meanwhile, only the outer shell of the main stage still stands, with a library and a stall for the Mitti Aid NGO, each of which are likely to be dismantled by Monday. Avtar Singh, founder of the Life Care Foundation says their 10-bedded facility was able to treat nearly 6,000 people over the past year, including trauma cases. “We had a high-tech facility, which is why it has taken us longer to return. The medical equipment has to be sent back first. We will send our beds and equipment on several trucks, while the team will leave on Monday for Dera Bassi [a city in Punjab],” said Singh. Nachhattar Singh Grewal, a popular face in the farmers’ protest is still at Singhu border as well, camped up outside the Mitti Aid enclosure. He says he stayed back to distribute blankets and other items to homeless people in the area. “We wanted to stay a day or two extra and distribute blankets and other items to the locals here, who would sleep under our tents and feast on the langar service (community kitchen). For them, the end of the protest is a big loss,” says Grewal. But, he says it is time to head back, and will leave for Punjab on Monday. While he may depart, a group of 10 farmers from Rajasthan, Haryana and Punjab don’t plan to. With chains wrapped around their arms and neck, the group says it will sit on hunger strike at the site, until the centre guarantees a Minimum Support Price (MSP). “Even if the highway opens up, we will sit on one side of the road and continue our protest,” said Sukhbir Singh, one of the 10 protesters, from Hisar in Haryana. The end of the protest means shops on either side of the highway, some of which remained shut for nearly a year, were opening up once again. Hansraj, the manager of a government wine and beer shop located at Singhu border was busy ensuring the final touches of a fresh paint are completed before the evening. “We expect the highway to open in a day or two. We will open our shop from Monday and fresh stock has already arrived,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/as-dust-settles-at-delhi-s-singhu-border-protest-leaves-little-behind-101639334464963.html
13-12-2021||Kolkata||Police officer, civic volunteer arrested for allegedly molesting woman in Kolkata||An assistant sub-inspector (ASI) and a civic police volunteer of the Bidhan Nagar city police district located on the eastern outskirts of Kolkata were arrested on Sunday for allegedly molesting a woman late on Friday night, police said. The crime took place on the Eastern Metropolitan Bypass when the victim, a resident of Asansol in West Burdwan district, was offered a lift on a motorcycle by the accused. She sought help after getting stranded because of lack of public transport. She alleged that the duo molested her on the moving motorcycle and dropped her at a desolate place when she protested. ASI Sandip Pal and civic police volunteer Abhishek Malakar were arrested on the basis of a complaint the victim lodged at Kasba police station of the Kolkata Police in the early hours of Saturday, an officer said on condition of anonymity. The Kolkata police took up the matter with the Bidhan Nagar city police. The two men were held after footages caught on security cameras installed along the EM Bypass were examined. They were suspended immediately. The victim told the police that she came to Kolkata to appear for a job interview. She was supposed to live with a friend for two days. When she failed to get a bus that would take her to Garfa, where her friend lives, she stopped the civic volunteer who was coming on a motorcycle. The civic volunteer gave her a lift for some distance from Bidhan Nagar before calling the ASI over phone. She alleged that the ASI forced her to sit between the two men before they molested her. With Kolkata gearing up for the December 19 municipal elections, the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) targeted the government after the arrests since Kolkata was declared the safest metro for women in the 2020 annual report of the National Crime Records Bureau. BJP state president Sukanta Majumdar accused the Trinamool Congress (TMC) of turning Kolkata into a lawless city. “The arrests have proved that contrary to claims made by the TMC, Kolkata is not a safe place for women,” he said. No TMC leader commended on the incident till Sunday evening.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/police-officer-civic-volunteer-arrested-for-allegedly-molesting-woman-in-kolkata-101639334463651.html
13-12-2021||Other||Haryana govt doctors defer strike till Dec 31 after meeting with health minister||Doctors of government hospitals in the state have deferred their strike till December 31 after a meeting with the state health minister on Sunday. The doctors, under the banner of the Haryana Civil Medical Services (HCMS) Association, were scheduled to go on strike from Monday over their demands regarding stopping direct recruitment of senior medical officers (SMOs) and hiring of specialist doctors, among others.Dr MP Singh, vice-president of HCMS Association, said, “On Sunday, all district presidents and members of the association met the health minister and senior officials of the health department in Ambala. We raised our concerns and the minister has assured us that the matter will be taken up with the chief minister and resolved in the next 15 days. We have now decided to postpone our strike till December 31. If our demands are not met by then, we will conduct a meeting to decide the next course of action.” On December 5, over 1,000 doctors from across the state had held a meeting in Karnal and later submitted a memorandum to the chief minister. The doctors had said that if the long pending demands are not met, then out patient departments of all government hospitals in the state will be closed for the whole day on December 13, and emergency and postmortem services will also be shut from December 14 onwards.The doctors’ association has also demanded to restore the previous quota for in-service candidates in the PG course policy, along with addition of super speciality courses. The doctors said that restoring the previous policy will increase the number of in-service doctors pursuing PG course and the department will get more specialists.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/haryana-govt-doctors-defer-strike-till-dec-31-after-meeting-with-health-minister-101639334284382.html
13-12-2021||Lucknow||KV Corridor will add to Kashi’s spiritual vibrancy, says PM Modi||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday said the Kashi Vishwanath (KV) Corridor project will add to the spiritual vibrancy of Kashi (Varanasi).He made the observation a day before he inaugurates the Kashi Vishwanath Corridor, spread over 5.5 lakh (550,000) square feet area, in Varanasi on Monday. A festive atmosphere was palpable in the temple town before the event.The KV Corridor that connects the Ganga and Kashi Vishwanath temple has been decorated with ornamental lights and tons of marigold flowers and garlands for the ceremony.“Tomorrow, 13th December is a landmark day. At a special programme in Kashi, the Shri Kashi Vishwanath Dham project will be inaugurated. This will add to Kashi’s spiritual vibrancy. I would urge you all to join tomorrow’s programme,” PM Modi said in a tweet.PM Modi will be on a two-day visit to his parliamentary constituency Varanasi from Monday.Soon after arriving in Varanasi, Modi will offer prayers at the Kaal Bhairav temple around noon and thereafter reach the KV Corridor gate on the bank of the Ganga. At around 1pm, he will visit Kashi Vishwanath Temple and offer prayers, after which he will inaugurate Phase 1 of Shri Kashi Vishwanath Dham (KV Corridor), constructed at a cost of around ₹339 crore, a statement said.According to Prime Minister’s Office (PMO), it was the vision of the prime minister for a long time to facilitate the pilgrims and devotees of Baba Vishwanath, who had to encounter congested streets and surroundings with poor upkeep, when they practised the age-old custom of taking a dip in the holy river, collecting Gangajal and offering it at the temple.A total of 23 buildings will be inaugurated in the Phase 1 of the project.“They will provide a variety of facilities to the pilgrims visiting Shri Kashi Vishwanath Temple, including Yatri Suvidha Kendras, Tourist Facilitation Centre, Vedic Kendra, Mumukshu Bhavan, Bhogshala, City Museum, Viewing Gallery, Food Court, among others,” it said.Bharatiya Janata Party national general secretary Tarun Chugh said over 50 crore (500 million) people will watch the KV Corridor inaugural ceremony that will be shown live on television and live streamed on various social media platforms, including YouTube.Around 3,000 special guests, including saints, Vedic scholars, priests from all 11 other jyotirlingas of Lord Shiva will attend the inaugural ceremony, he added.There is a hi-tech command and control centre with cameras installed in every nook and corner for round the clock surveillance to ensure foolproof security, said commissioner of police, Varanasi, A Satish Ganesh.Divisional commissioner Deepak Agarwal said, “It is matter of great satisfaction that KV Corridor is completely ready. It is all set to be inaugurated by Prime Minster Narendra Modi on December 13.” Shri Kashi Vishwanath Special Area Development Board (SKSADB) chief executive officer Sunil Verma, who supervised the project, said, “The entire Kashi Vishwanath Dham has been decorated with flowers for its inaugural ceremony.” All arrangements have been completed, he added.Rajbahadur Patel, a resident of Khajuri in Varanasi, said, “No one thought that the Kashi Vishwanath temple complex could be made so grand by expanding it. But PM Modi has made it a reality.” Ballu Vijay Yadav, who runs a tea stall in Pandeypur area and named it the NaMo tea stall in 2014, said, “Kashi Vishwanath Dham is divine, spiritual, and grand. The devotees, including kanwarias, will not have to wait for hours for darshan of Baba Kashi Vishwanath because the KV Corridor is spacious and sprawling. It is a gift to the devotees, including kanwarias.”Ravi Gupta, a resident of Pandeypur, said KV Corridor has added to the glory of Sanatan Dharma (Hinduism).Vivek Singh Raghuvanshi, resident of Tewar village in Cholapur area of Varanasi, expressed happiness over construction of the KV Corridor.“It will make pilgrimage comfortable and thus will boost religious tourism,” he said.Commissioner of police A Satish Ganesh said tight security arrangements have been put in place in the entire city for the inaugural ceremony.The prime minister will witness Ganga aarti at around 6pm on Monday.The next day, he will preside over a conference of the chief ministers of BJP-ruled states on the Banaras Locomotive Works (BLW) campus.The conclave will provide an opportunity to share governance-related best practices and is in line with the Prime Minister’s vision of furthering the team India spirit, the statement said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/kv-corridor-will-add-to-kashi-s-spiritual-vibrancy-says-pm-modi-101639334165077.html
13-12-2021||Mumbai||Congress to contend with AIMIM in upcoming polls||Mumbai While parties like the Trinamool Congress are aggressively poaching the support bases of the Congress, the Grand Old Party will also have to contend with the presence of the All India Majlis-E-Ittehadul Muslimeen in Maharashtra. Next month, the AIMIM will soft-launch its campaign for the Maharashtra municipal polls with a rally at the Bandra-Kurla Complex (BKC) in Mumbai on 11 December, which will be addressed by party chief and Lok Sabha MP Asaduddin Owaisi and touch upon issues confronting the Muslim community.The AIMIM is attacking the Congress and the Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) for allying with the pro-Hindutva Shiv Sena and for seeking the votes of the Muslims, yet dragging its feet on providing quotas for them. It is also demanding the revival of the waqf board and using its resources for the community’s welfare.The Congress in Maharashtra on Sunday alleged that the AIMIM and BJP are two sides of the same coin, a day after AIMIM chief Asaduddin Owaisi slammed the party and the NCP at a rally in Mumbai for “failing” to implement a five per cent reservation for Muslims in the state. Senior Maharashtra Congress leader Naseem Khan on Sunday wondered why the Owaisi-led All India Majlis-E-Ittehadul Muslimeen (AIMIM) remained “silent” on the Muslim quota issue when the BJP government was in power in Maharashtra from 2014 to 2019Led by the firebrand Owaisi brothers from Hyderabad, Asaduddin and MLA Akbaruddin Owaisi, the AIMIM appeals to a section of Muslims like the youth, who are of the opinion that the “secular” parties use them as a vote bank, while the community continued to be institutionally neglected and socially, politically and educationally backwards. The AIMIM, which contested the 2019 Lok Sabha elections with Prakash Ambedkar’s Vanchit Bahujan Aghadi (VBA), notched up its first victory outside Hyderabad, with its Imtiaz Jaleel breaching the saffron stronghold of Aurangabad.Congress-NCP leaders grumble that the VBA ate into the “secular” votes, causing their defeat in eight constituencies. Though the alliance fell apart later, the AIMIM won two seats in the Maharashtra assembly.“Between 2014 and 2019, the Congress and NCP were seeking that the erstwhile BJP government must introduce quotas for the Muslims. But, why are they dragging their feet now that they are in power?” questioned Jaleel, AIMIM MP from Aurangabad, and the party’s Maharashtra chief. The Bombay High Court (HC) had stayed the Maratha quota and reservations in jobs for Muslims that was introduced by the erstwhile Congress-NCP regime in 2014 but did not stay the decision to reserve 5% seats for Muslims in education. The BJP-Shiv government later approved a bill for Maratha reservations, but did not cover Muslims.The AIMIM is demanding a revival package for the Maharashtra State Board of Waqf (MSBW), which controls 93,000 acres of prime Muslim endowment lands across Maharashtra, but has few resources to protect it. “The board must get a one-time (revival) package. These vacant lands must be used for starting schools, commercial complexes to generate employment, and hostels for girls.” sought Jaleel, noting that most waqf lands are encumbered.Jaleel said they had originally planned to hold the rally as part of this campaign on 27 November, but was denied permissions by the police citing Covid restrictions. He stated that the Shiv Sena, Congress, NCP and the BJP, were conducting public meetings, even without the consent of the police. The AIMIM has hence threatened to hold the meeting at the BKC grounds even if the permissions do not come through.Jaleel said that while political motives could be attributed to this campaign being launched before the municipal elections, they were “raising genuine questions at the right time.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/congress-to-contend-with-aimim-in-upcoming-polls-101639333983708.html
13-12-2021||Chandigarh||In a big haul, 85,000kg hooch seized in Tarn Taran||The Punjab excise department on Sunday recovered 85,000 kilograms of lahan (hooch) and 75,500 millilitre illicit liquor during a search operation on the banks of Beas at Gagrewal village, about 40 kilometres from the Tarn Taran district headquarters.“Continuing with our drive under Operation Red Rose, a major search operation was conducted at 9 am on directions of Punjab excise commissioner Rajat Agarwal at Mand area of Gagrewal village under Fatehabad excise circle,” said a department official. The entire stretch along both banks of the river was searched by the team under the supervision of excise officer Navjot Bharti. Besides hooch and illicit liquor, the team recovered six iron drums, 14 plastic drums, two plastic container and other equipment from a secluded spot. No arrest has been made.As many as 140 people had died in Tarn Taran and its neighbouring districts of Amritsar and Gurdaspur in the state’s worst hooch tragedy last year. The Punjab excise department had later launched Operation Red Rose in coordination with police to curb illicit liquor trade and nail excise-related crimes in the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/huge-haul-of-hooch-seized-along-beas-in-tarn-taran-101639320065400.html
13-12-2021||Chandigarh||CDS chopper crash: Naik Gursewak Singh cremated in Tarn Taran||Naik Gursewak Singh was cremated with full state honours at his native village of Dode Sodhian in Tarn Taran on Sunday. The mortal remains of Naik Singh, who was killed in a helicopter crash along with chief of defence staff General Bipin Rawat and others in Tamil Nadu last week, reached Amritsar by air on Sunday and were taken to the village on an army vehicle.As the vehicle reached the village, residents showered flowers on it and raised slogans in his memory. They came out in huge numbers to bid Naik Singh a tearful adieu in the presence of senior politicians and civil and military officials.Khemkaran MLA Sukhpal Singh Bhullar, former MLA and Akali leader Virsa Singh Valtoha and deputy commissioner Kulwant Singh were among those who presented floral tribute to the deceased soldier. His three-year-old son Gurfateh Singh lit the pyre. On the demand for financial aid to the family, the DC said: “If the death is declared a battle casualty by the government, Punjab will give ₹50 lakh to the family.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/cds-chopper-crash-naik-gursewak-singh-cremated-with-full-state-honours-101639317303115.html
