14-12-2021||Pune||Students unhappy over offline exams to be held by Bharati Vidyapeeth University||PUNE After state higher education minister Uday Samant announced that universities must give both online and offline options for examinations, the Bharati Vidyapeeth Deemed University Pune will hold offline exams for its various courses from December 15. Students are furious over this decision as many of them are in their home towns and some are afraid of the new Omicron variant and want to appear online for the exams.The exams of BVU’s New Law College are set to commence first and students have been sent a schedule. “Our exams are going to be held offline and I am at my village in Aurangabad, as my parents are not allowing me to travel to Pune due to the Covid-19 . And if the state education minister is appealing to give both options for exams then why is our university forcing students to appear for offline exams,” said a law student on condition of anonymity.Talking about the issue M M Salunkhe, vice-chancellor, Bharati Vidyapeeth university said, “Our examinations are going to be held offline and it is also appealed by the state higher education minister Uday Samant recently to go towards offline classes and exams. We are taking the review of Covid situation and if needed in the future both offline and online options will be given to students. But as of now exams are held only offline,”While Rishi Pardeshi, state observer, Nationalist Students Congress party said, “This is a complete violation of Covid guidelines and safety of students is compromised by calling them and forcing them to attend offline classes. Still, there is fear of Covid-19 and most students are in their home towns. So, our demand is BVU should give both online and offline options to students for appearing for exams.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/students-unhappy-over-offline-exams-to-be-held-by-bharati-vidyapeeth-university-101639506543341.html
14-12-2021||Other||Chhattisgarh HC orders Centre to file reply in alleged illegal land acquisition in Parsa coal block||Hearing a petition of five farmers against alleged illegal land acquisition in Parsa coal block, Chhattisgarh high court ordered the Central government to file a reply till January 10 regarding the allegations and said till then no ‘coercive action’ shall be taken against the petitioners.The order was passed on Monday by a bench of chief justice Arup Kumar Goswami and Justice NK Chandravanshi. The petition was filed by five farmers in October 2020 challenging the land acquisition by the central government.“…Writ Petition is being filed against the unlawful land acquisition of the Parsa Coal Block and is also raising certain important legal questions with regard to the Land Acquisition for Coal Mines post-enactment of Right to Fair Compensation and Transparency in Land Acquisition, Rehabilitation, Resettlement Act 2013…” the petition stated.Sudeip Shrivastava, the counsel of the petitioners, said the HC has reordered the statement made by the counsel and ordered that no coercive action shall be taken against the petitioners till the next hearing on January 10.“The court has sought a reply from the Central government in the petition, as the acquisition was done by the Centre in favour of a public sector unit (PSU) of Rajasthan which in turn has entered into a mining and development ( MDO) agreement with a private company” said Shrivastava.The petition stated, “It is submitted that instant matter relates to the Land Acquisition proceedings for the Parsa Coal Block which has been allotted to Rajasthan Rajya Vidyut Utpadan Nigam Limited (RRVUNL) by the Ministry of Coal…. Some of the villages going to be displaced completely while the land acquisition is affecting six villages. The land acquisition for the said coal block has been done in complete violation of the scheme, the Coal Bearing (Acquisition and Development) Act 1957.”The petition further alleged that some of the villagers also objected that PESA Act 1996 has also not been followed by the Central government before issuance of Section 4(1) notification. Furthermore, the provisions of the Forest Rights Act 2006 have not been followed by the Central government as well as the Collector of the concerned district before issuance of Section 4(1) notification.
14-12-2021||Pune||Covid: Pune district reports 178 new cases, 11 deaths||Pune: As of Tuesday, Pune district reported 178 new Covid-19 cases and 11 deaths due to the infection. This took the progressive count to 1.16 million of which 1.14 million have recovered, 20,099 deaths and 1,665 are active cases currently in hospital undergoing treatment or in home isolation. Pune also saw over 68,000 doses of vaccinations on the day. As per the state health department, Pune rural reported 61 new Covid cases which took the progressive count to 368,649 and the death toll went up to 7,002 as two more deaths were reported. Pune city reported 75 new Covid cases which took the progressive count to 524,089 and the death toll went up to 9,230 as two more deaths were reported. PCMC reported 42 new Covid cases and the progressive count went up to 270,342 and the toll stood at 3,517 as two more deaths were reported in the district on the day. Pune district also saw 68,324 vaccinations on the day as per the Co-WIN dashboard on Tuesday and in total 14,326,574. Of which 8,502,918 are first doses and 5,823,656 are second doses. A total of 669 sites saw vaccination of which 448 were government centres and 221 were private.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/covid-pune-district-reports-178-new-cases-11-deaths-101639506240982.html
14-12-2021||Pune||18-year-old complains against parents, husband, in-laws for child marriage||PUNE An 18-year-old girl from Pune has lodged a complaint against her husband, parents, and in-laws for domestic violence, assault, and forcing her into child marriage when she was 16 years of age. Based on her complaint, the Pimpri-Chinchwad police have registered a case at Hinjewadi police station. The girl was forced to marry a 34-year-old man in June 2019 in Baner, and sent to live with him and his parents in Satoli village in Karmala, Solapur, according to her complaint. While living with them, the girl was beaten up and asked to bring ₹2 lakh and a two-wheeler vehicle from her parents in form of dowry. The girl left the house and started living with her parents. However, they also started abusing her verbally and physically, she told the police. “She had gone to the police with the help of a person outside her family. They had first gone to Nigdi police station and then to meet with the commissioner of police, Pimpri-Chinchwad. They told him where the wedding happened and it was found that it was in the jurisdiction of Hinjewadi police station. We are yet to arrest the accused in this case,” said Police sub inspector Sandeep Borkar of Hinjewadi police station who is investigating the case.A case under Sections 498(a), 323, 504, 506, and 34 of Indian Penal Code along with Section 9, 10, 11(1) of Prohibition of Child Marriage Act, 2006 was registered at Hinjewadi police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/18yearold-complains-against-parents-husband-in-laws-for-child-marriage-101639506184627.html
14-12-2021||Chandigarh||Himachal assembly clears decks for setting up state-run university in Mandi||The Himachal Pradesh assembly on Tuesday passed the Sardar Patel University, Mandi, Himachal Pradesh (Establishment and Regulation) Act, 2021 paving way for setting up of a second state-run university in the state.Presenting the bill for discussion, education minister Govind Singh Thakur said in the last five decades, many government colleges, as well as private colleges, have been opened in the state.“To increase access to higher education and improve quality of education, it has been decided to establish another university namely Sardar Patel University, Mandi (Himachal Pradesh),” he said.With the establishment of a new university, there will be effective control over affiliated colleges.He said most provisions of the new legislation were brought from the Himachal Pradesh University Act 1971 and there was never a dispute over its provisions.CPI (M) Rakesh Singha had moved at least 32 amendments in the Bill related to important sections all of which were rejected by voice-vote.Participating in the debate on the Bill, Singha said the government should ensure that the autonomy of the new university is maintained and there is no unnecessary political interference in its functioning.Singha also opposed the provision for contractual appointments of faculty and suggested that appointments be made on regular bases.Earlier, Congress member Jagat Singh Negi said that ₹10 crore budget for setting up a university was not enough.Rakesh Jamwal of BJP supported the Bill stating that the university will provide students of lower areas, especially Kullu, Mandi and Lahaul Spiti, access to higher education.The state assembly also passed the Himachal Pradesh University (Amendment) Act to authorise the state government to change the jurisdiction of colleges from HPU to Sardar Patel University Mandi.CPI(M) member Singha opposed the amendment stating that it would cease the legislative power of assembly members by giving power to the executive to legislate in the matter of deciding jurisdiction of university.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/himachal-assembly-clears-decks-for-setting-up-state-run-university-in-mandi-101639506182865.html
14-12-2021||Pune||Five booked for duping bank by submitting fake gold for loan in Pune||PUNE Five people, including two jewellers, were booked by Pune rural police for duping bank of ₹ 38.1 lakh by submitting fake gold as collateral for three gold loans. The loans were sanctioned between June 2017 and December 2020 with the confirmation from the two jewellers, according to the police.“We have not yet arrested anyone in the case. It was registered on Monday and we are investigating the complaint,” said police sub-inspector N Sable of Bhor police station.Of the five people accused in the case, three were borrowers while two others were jewellers for the bank - one of the jeweller is from Mangalwar peth’s Raval Chowk in Bhor and the second one is from Shirval.One of the accused took a loan for ₹14,30,000 by submitting 693 gram of fake gold, the second one took a loan of ₹9,00,000 by submitting 284 gram gold, and the third took ₹14,88,500 loan by submitting 884.5 gram gold, according to the police.A case under Sections 420 (cheating), 406 (criminal breach of trust), 408 (criminal breach of trust by clerk or servant), and 34 (common intention) of Indian Penal code was registered at Bhore police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/five-booked-for-duping-bank-by-submitting-fake-gold-for-loan-in-pune-101639505821507.html
14-12-2021||Other||Gurugram’s multi-crore heist: Gangster took 10 days to execute the plan||Days before the multi-crore heist at two apartments in a residential society in Sector 84, gangster Vikas Lagarpuria, one of the prime suspects, had asked his henchmen to rent a flat in the same society to keep a watch on the two apartments, said senior officials from the special task force (STF) of the Haryana Police on Tuesday. It took the gangster and his men 10 days to execute the plan which involved 20 people, including policemen, doctors, and financers, said the officials. The two apartments in which the theft took place on August 4 were being used as maintenance office by the developer of the residential society, the STF officials said, adding that the theft came to the fore on August 20 when an employee of the developer visited the maintenance office to collect the cash to deposit it in the bank. After scanning the CCTV footage, the realtor discovered that the money was stolen, they said. On August 21, a case of theft was registered at Kherki Daula police station where police did not mention theft amount, but later the case was transferred to the STF which revealed that gold and cash, including US dollars, worth at least ₹40 crore were stolen. The stolen money was kept in more than 40 bags and sacks, said the officials. According to the STF, the heist which took place between 11pm and 4am (intervening night of August 3-4) was followed by transporting part of the stolen money to Delhi’s Dwarka, while some amount was sent through hawala to gangster Lagarpuria who is believed to be in the UAE and runs the operations from there. So far, 15 people, including six henchmen of the gangster, three doctors, two employees of the developer, two financers and an assistant sub-inspector (ASI) of the Delhi Police. On November 10, the STF arrested two doctors -- Dr Sachinder Jain Nawal, a leading paediatrician who owns two hospitals in Gurugram, and Dr Gurpartap Singh.According to the officials, the developer had kept more than ₹40 crore in the two apartments -- one on fourth floor and the other on 11th floor -- of a building. The information, which was allegedly leaked to Dr Nawal in July, was passed on to gangster Lagarpuria following which the heist was planned and executed, they said. STF deputy inspector general Satheesh Balan said that the gangster asked his men to take up an apartment on rent in the society and start keeping a watch on the two apartments. “The apartments were unattended at night and there were no lockers. The bags containing money was kept in the almirahs,” he said, adding that other residents of the building were not aware of the theft. Balan said as per the plan Dr Nawal asked the gangster to arrange henchmen and a vehicle to transport money from the society to a location in Delhi. “Around 11pm, a Scorpio with six men entered the society to meet some friends who were already waiting for them at the rented apartment. They parked the SUV near the tower and met a close aide of Lagarpuria — Abinav Sharma. Then they broke open the two apartments, took out the bags, loaded them in the SUV and drove towards Delhi,” he said. The officials said the stolen money was taken to Dwarka in Delhi to Dr Ashwin Tehlan’s house for safekeeping in two shifts. Dr Tehlan, a dentist, is the gangster’s friend, they said, adding that Tehlan’s father denied keeping the money in the apartment and asked him to return the money. Meanwhile, the SUV returned to Gurugram for the second round and the gangster contacted ASI Vikas Gulia to arrange another vehicle for transporting the stolen money to a financer’s flat in Delhi, the STF said. Lagarpuria had called Tehlan and informed him that he was sending money to him to keep it safe for a few days. He told him that it was hawala money and he wanted him to keep it to which he agreed, said the officials, adding that Tehlan was under the impression that the amount would be around ₹30-40 lakh but was shocked to see bags and sacks containing money.Dr Tehlan and Sandeep Badhwar, one of the financers, surrendered before STF on November 10, said the officials, adding that Dr Tehlan was not aware that the money was stolen and he came to know about the theft after the arrest of ASI Gulia through newspaper reports. Tehlan was a member of “Half Lady Club” – a chit fund club and had come in touch with gangster Lagarpuria in 2020 through financier Badhwar in a club, the STF said, adding that earlier Tehlan knew Lagarpuria as a financer but in March this year Lagarpuria revealed his original identity to Tehlan. The officials said that the STF is planning to make two people -- Tehlan and Badhwar -- government approvers, as they were not directly involved in the heist. The STF has recovered nearly ₹5.80 core from possession of the suspects, they said.A spokesperson of Alpha Corp, the developer, said, “The IT department has served notice to the company. On the query received from the IT department that has been watched as a theft case, Alpha Corp has reverted them with the official version and has confirmed the amount of ₹50 lakh.”
14-12-2021||Pune||Medical students involved in jewellery theft in Pune||PUNE The Pune police on Tuesday said that two medical students were found to have robbed gold from two jewellery shops in Pune .The two have been identified as Aniket Hanumant Rokade, 23, a resident of Nagobanagar in Ahmedpur, Latur and Vaibhav Sanjay Jagtap, 22, a resident of Risod in Washim, according to the police.“Upon investigation it was found that they are both students of BAMS and Bsc nursing at a well-known medical college in the city and are addicts. They have confessed to have committed the robbery to feed their addiction, luxury, and to gift the jewellery to their girlfriends,” read a statement by senior police inspector Arvind Gokule of Hadapsar police station.The two were found in possession of four gold rings collectively weighing 36.770 gram and one unicorn motorbike used in the crime.On December 8, the two had gone to BlueStone jewellery store in Kothrud and fled with a ring . Sometime later, around 2:45pm, they went to Ranka Jewellers in Hadapsar and fled on a bike with three rings.Two respective cases were registered at Alankar and Hadapsar police stations.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/medical-students-involved-in-jewellery-theft-in-pune-101639505640868.html
14-12-2021||Pune||Pune man gets death penalty for killing family in 1997||PUNE A 47-year-old man was sentenced to death by a court in Pune for the murder of a family of four people including two minor children in 1997.The deceased Ramesh Patil, Vijaya Patil, Pooja Patil and Manjunath Patil, lived on the first floor of Princeten Town society in Kalyaninagar when they were killed. Forty-seven-year-old Bhagwat Kale who was 22 years-old when he and his wife Geeta and her cousin Sahebrao alias Navnath Kale had helped him kill the family and rob cash worth ₹45,73,490 along with gold and silver ornaments collectively estimated to be worth ₹49 lakh in 1997.The conviction was finalised on Monday and the quantum of punishment was decided by the court of Additional Sessions Judge BP Kshirsagar on Tuesday with public prosecutor Rajesh Kavediya and defence lawyer Advocate BA Aloor.“The conscience of society and even humanhood is shocked by such brutal and barbaric act. There is need to give a deterrent message. The society also expects the same. The accused, committing such barbaric act is a menace to the harmony of society. Accordingly, accused deserves to be awarded with the capital sentence,” read the operational part of the order.Sahebrao was granted death sentence by the local which was later commuted to life imprisonment and much later he was proven to have been a juvenile during the commissioning of the crime and released from jail. Geeta, who was convicted and sentenced to life imprisonment as she was found to have been pregnant during the murder and was a mother to a seven-year-old.The incident had happened on the night intermediate of May 15-16, 1997 five days after the family of four had shifted into a flat in Kalyaninagar. The mother and son were found inside the house by the builder and a labourer while the father and the daughter were found in a drain near the building. “The household articles and other items were scattered in the flat. They (police) found the knife and screw driver stained with blood, lying in the hall. They found knife and G. I. pipe also stained with the blood lying near the door of a bed room in the said flat,” read the order by Bombay High Court in October 2004 that upheld conviction for Geeta and Sahebrao but commuted Sahebrao’s sentence from death to life imprisonment.“The house was located on the first floor in a society in which other buildings were still under construction. They moved on May 11, 1997 from Hubli. He used to say he is a bank manager. But when he came, he had come by duping a lot of people by claiming to help them get loan but took their money and did not help with loan. Geeta came to work with them as a domestic help and her husband and their relative Sahebrao worked at the construction site,” said PP Kavediya.The three accused lived inside the society in accommodation built for labourers. Geeta knew that the family had cash while her husband, the main accused, knew the entry exit points due to his work. The two used the information to their advantage but turned violent when the couple recognised Geeta.The husband, Bhagwat Kale, was convicted under Sections 302, 449, 460, 392, and 201 all read with 34 of Indian Penal Code. However, the sentence will only be awarded if and when confirmed by the Bombay High Court.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pune-man-gets-death-penalty-for-killing-family-in-1997-101639505521733.html
14-12-2021||Chandigarh||Chitkara University holds AI-based hackathon||The entrepreneurship cell of Chitkara University, Himachal Pradesh, organised an artificial- intelligence based hackathon, Hackday, on Tuesday. Around 17 potential start-ups, comprising first-year computer science engineering students, participated in the hackathon. The jury panel included computer science engineering head Kuldeep Sharma; pharmacy dean Nitin Verma; international operations assistant director Aditi Chandel; entrepreneur Akhilesh Jain; and Princeton Hive, USA, operations director David Mcdermott. The first Hackday prize was secured by team ‘pirates of fire’, which comprised Harsh Srivastava, Ayushi Pathak, Ishan Chaudhary, Kunyalik Kanwar and Ankita Thakur. The team’s idea revolved around an AI-based fire extinguisher robot which will be able to extinguish fire with sound. The team won a soft commitment of ₹1 crore from the jury and investor Akhilesh Jain and a confirmed commitment of ₹1 lakh towards prototype development. The second prize was won by team ‘goal diggers’ comprising Aditya Sharma, Suryam Bhukania and Saurabh Shukla, which worked on a project to help people suffering from Alzheimer’s disease and cure depression. Team ‘weaponries’, comprising Abhinav Sehgal, Anjori, Akshita, Akshat and Anmol, won the third prize. Their idea was to introduce AI holographic projection into the optical sight of a soldier to match the requirements of future warfare. Team ‘Door_1’ founded by Devain Sharma came fourth. It worked with a sustainable energy production device that will operate on the basis of combined solar, thermal and wind energy and provide higher efficiency energy conversion. The team got a non-equity investment of ₹1 lakh from three lead investors – Kuldeep Sharma (head computer science engineering), Akhilesh Jain and Sumeer Walia, director, Centre for Entrepreneurship abd Development (CEED). The last prize was won by team ‘Hack–o–holics” founded by Aditya Hada and team members Hritesh, Ankit Rana, Ansh Verma and Atul Kapoor. Their idea was to work on plastic problems and plastic pollution using AI technology. The awards were distributed by Chitkara University pro-vice-chancellor Manoj Manuja; and CEED director Sumeer Walia, who was the programme director. The organisers for the event were David Mcdermott, director of operations, Blockchain Expert, Princeton Hive, USA; Avery Maune, director of communications, ecology expert, Princeton Hive, USA; and Adit Goswami, head, business and operations, entrepreneurial expert, Princeton Hive, India.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chitkara-university-holds-ai-based-hackathon-101639505400929.html
14-12-2021||Other||Gurugram air quality enters ‘very poor’ zone again after five days||Low wind speed and dip in temperature led to a rise in the pollution levels in the city as the air quality entered the ‘very poor’ zone on Tuesday after remaining in ‘poor’ category for the past five days. The average air quality index (AQI) of Gurugram at 4pm on Tuesday was 306, which was 53 points more than the AQI of 253 on Monday, according to the Central Pollution Control Board. The IMD said that the air quality is likely to remain in very poor category on Tuesday and Wednesday but from Thursday onwards there could be improvement in AQI as windspeed is expected to pick up. According to the System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting And Research (SAFAR), for the next two days winds are likely to be moderate. “Partially cloudy conditions and moderate mixing layer height are likely to keep air quality within ‘very poor’ for the next two days. On Thursday air quality is likely to improve and from Friday onwards significant improvement is likely due to high wind speeds that keeps AQI within ‘poor’ or ‘lower end of very poor’ category,” the SAFAR predicted. On Wednesday, Gurugram recorded 21.4 degrees Celsius as the maximum temperature while the minimum was recorded at 8 degrees Celsius. The IMD has predicted further drop in temperature due to isolated snow and rains in hills and said the temperature could touch 4 degrees Celsius on Sunday. The Haryana State Pollution Control Board , meanwhile, said that its team are keeping a close watch on industrial areas and construction sites to prevent any violation. “We are keeping a close watch on the situation to prevent violations of any type,” said Kuldip Singh, regional officer, north, HSPCB.The department of town and country planning said that their teams are visiting private colonies in old and new Gurugram to check any violations of the NGT norms. “Strict instructions have been given to property owners and developers to follow NGT norms. Our teams are conducting regular inspections,” said Ashish Sharma, assistant town planner, enforcement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/gurugram-air-quality-enters-very-poor-zone-again-after-five-days-101639505340681.html
14-12-2021||Pune||Pune court rejects anticipatory bail applications of three accused in Hinjewadi Waqf land scam case||PUNE A Pune court has rejected the anticipatory bail of three more accused involved in the ₹9.64 crore Hinjewadi land scam case. The Enforcement Directorate (ED) is also investigating the case wherein seven accused have already been arrested in connection with fraud and forgery of government documents related to waqf land at Maan village in Hinjewadi allegedly in connivance with the officials at the Pune district collectorate. The court rejected the bail application of Sahil Munna Khan, Rehana Ishraque Khan and Uzair Ishraque Khan.Additional sessions judge P R Ashturkar in his order stated “ Moving further, it is not at all the case that applicants are totally unaware or strange persons in connection with the offence. On the contrary, it can be seen that they are direct beneficiaries. As this is one kind of economic offence, based on various documents, it is necessary that investigation machinery get fair opportunity for minute investigation. Unless and until every chain of transaction is properly linked and brought on record, this kind of offence cannot be duly proved. Even a single loose bit of chain can turn into failure of the entire investigation. Thus, the presence of the accused with police is necessary for minute investigation and to discover the facts in their special knowledge. Looking at the facts and circumstances, applicants are thus not entitled for anticipatory bail. Hence order.”Sahil Munna Khan, another trustee of Taboot Inam Endowment Trust had also filed for anticipatory bail . The prosecution, while strongly objecting to the bail application, submitted that, during investigation, it was found that applicants have issued few cheques and has also been to the bank with prime accused Imtiyaz . He has also furnished his own Adhaar and pan card on the bank record, it is submitted that application be rejected.According to the Pune police,the total value of the fraudulent deal involving the Tabut Inam Endowment Trust is ₹9.64 crore, The Bund Garden police had arrested Imtiaz Shaikh and Chand Mulani, both of whom were arrested on charges of impersonating the trust’s president and secretary, respectively based on the complaint filed by Pune regional officer of Waqf Board. The police are also on the lookout for a high-profile criminal known as land mafia in the investigative circles in connection with the fraud.What the FIR saysAccording to the FIR, Taboot Inam Endowment Trust,which is registered with the Waqf board, owns 8 hectares 57.1 R land at Gat no. 335/1 in Maan village in Mulshi taluka of Pune district. The state government acquired 5 hectares 51 R land out of the total land for the Rajiv Gandhi IT Park. The government were supposed to give around ₹9.64 crore to the trust in return and accordingly the government had released an amount of ₹7.73 crore. The amount was siphoned off by the accused who prepared bogus documents and resorted to cheating the government.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pune-court-rejects-anticipatory-bail-applications-of-three-accused-in-hinjewadi-waqf-land-scam-case-101639505280738.html
14-12-2021||Noida||Builder slapped with ₹5 lakh fine for causing pollution in Greater Noida||A real estate developer was slapped with a penalty of ₹5 lakh for continuing construction work at a housing project and causing air pollution in violation of guidelines in Greater Noida on Tuesday, officials said.The developer has been directed to remit the fine amount within 15 working days and sprinkle water on the site in order to check pollution, the Greater Noida Industrial Development Authority (GNIDA) officials said."We received information regarding construction work being underway at the Coco County housing project by developer Shirja Real Estate Solutions Private Limited following which a GNIDA team led by Senior Manager Shyodan Singh inspected the site," a GNIDA official said."The information was found to be true and the construction work was causing pollution, hence a fine of ₹5 lakh imposed on the developer, who has been given a fortnight's time to remit the amount," the official added.Meanwhile, GNIDA CEO Narendra Bhooshan appealed to the residents of Greater Noida to cooperate in checking pollution by adhering to best practices like not burning waste or raising dust.He also appealed to the residents to follow anti-pollution guidelines issued by the National Green Tribunal, the state pollution control board and the local authority."People with pollution-related grievances can contact the GNIDA on 0120-2336046/47/48/49 for redressal of their issue and also use the WhatsApp number 8800203912," Bhooshan said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/builder-slapped-with-rs-5-lakh-fine-for-causing-pollution-in-greater-noida-101639504802300.html
14-12-2021||Lucknow||Magh Mela-2022: Land allotments for camps to seers, religious bodies from Dec 22||Prayagraj Mela Authority has finalised the land allotment schedule for seers and religious organisations to help them set up their camps for the Magh Mela-2022. The land allotments would start from December 22, 2021 and continue till January 5, 2022, said officials aware of the development.“First of all, land will be allotted to seers of Dandi Bada for the annual religious fair set to start from January 14/15 with the first official bathing of Makar Sankranti and will end on Maha Shivratri on March 1,” said Mela Adhikari Sheshmani Pandey. For camps of this spiritual institution, land will be allotted for two days on December 22-23. Similarly, land will be allotted to the seers of Khak Chowk on December 24 and 25, he added. The seers of Acharya Bada will be allotted land on December 26 and 27. Land allotment for camps on Sangam Lower, Sangam Upper, Saraswati and Mahavir Marg of tent city would be done on December 31 while the same for Annapurna Marg will be done on January 1, 2022 followed by Tulsi Marg and GT Road on January 2, Triveni Marg on January 3 and Kali Marg on January 4, 2022.The land allotment for Sector 1-2, Shastri Gata and Kabir Nagar will take place on January 5 with Samudra Koop-Interlocking Marg and Sector 3 land allotments taking place on January 5 and that of Ramanuj Marg on January 5, 2022. The allotment of land at Arail and that to other organizations will take place on January 5, the Mela Adhikari added.The land allotment to seers and religious organisations is yearly but complex process for the officials as this often results in confrontations and even agitations by unhappy religious men and bodies. Officials made clear that the facility slips will be given two days after the land allotments to the allotees. The institutions which did not formally return the facilities after taking them last year will not be given any facility this time. The Mela Adhikari said the institutions which will opt out of getting land and facilities allotted to them this year due to Covid will witness no reduction in their land or facilities next year. They will be given the same facilities and land next year as they have been receiving in the past, he made clear.Till last year, the tent city was set up on 640 hectares of land. This time the work of the railways is going on for construction of a railway over bridge besides a large part of the land has been inundated by the Ganga.In such a situation, about 60 hectares of land is falling short. In view of this, the fair area is expected to be expanded in Hetapatti area towards Jhunsi and towards Darganj so that all institutions can be given the same amount of land and facilities as they had received last year, officials said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/magh-mela-2022-land-allotments-for-camps-to-seers-religious-bodies-from-dec-22-101639505165898.html
14-12-2021||Chandigarh||Himachal assembly passes bill to appoint high court judges as Lokayukta||The Himachal Pradesh Lokayukta (Amendment) Bill, 2021, which provides for appointment of a high court Judge as Lokayukta, was passed in the assembly on Tuesday amid a walkout by the Opposition.Replying to a debate on the Bill, Parliamentary affairs minister Suresh Bhardwaj said the Lokayukta legislation was first brought by the government led by former chief minister Virbhadra Singh in 1985.Being a small state, one person was posted as the Lokayukta as well as the chairman of the state Human Rights Commission.“As per Section 3 of the Lokayukta Act, it is necessary for a person to be a judge of the Supreme Court or a chief justice of a high court to be eligible for appointment to the post of Lokayukta,” said Bhardwaj.It was due to the limited scope of eligibility criteria that the post remained vacant, he added. The minister said it was necessary to make the institution of Lokayukta functional.“There is no ulterior motive for bringing such amendment,” he said adding that it would not lower the stature of chief minister as has been said by the Theog legislator Rakesh Singha.Bhardwaj said that a high court judge is an important person who is appointed by a collegium system and holds judicial powers equivalent to the chief justice of the high court except the administrative powers.Earlier taking part in the discussion, Jagat Singh Negi alleged that the BJP government came up with the amendment in the bill to diminish the sanctity of the constitutional body.He said that not a single person was prosecuted by the Lokayukta since the inception of the institution. Negi said the government came up with an amendment to facilitate someone whom they wanted to appoint as Lokayukta.Congress member Harshvardhan Chauhan allegedly said the reason cited by the government that it was tough to find an eligible person to hold the post was absurd.Asha Kumari pointed out that by making provision of appointment of a judge of high court as Lokayukta will also lower the status of chief minister.CPI (M) Rakesh Singha also agreed with her and said the Bill should be withdrawn.The assembly, however, passed the Bill with voice-vote, rejecting the amendment moved by Rakesh Singha, amid walkout by the Opposition.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/himachal-assembly-passes-bill-to-appoint-high-court-judges-as-lokayukta-101639505163551.html
14-12-2021||Pune||Dug up road add to commuters’ woes near Mandai||PUNE Travelling through the Chhatrapati Shivaji road has become a nightmare for residents in the last few months. There is traffic chaos due to the ongoing Pune Metro work near the Mandai market and the drainage and pipeline work near the Mandai area has added to the woes not only for commuters but for residents and shop owners.Residents have complained about the issue to the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) as it is affecting their daily work and safety.From the last few months for the Mandai Metro station work, the entire Mandai area and Shivaji roadside have been either dug up or barricaded. Now the road starting from the Datta Mandir chowk till Mandai chowk has been dug up for the drainage and underground pipeline work. Due to which half of the road has been barricaded and it is adding to the daily traffic congestions.“There is a heavy flow of traffic every day while going to and coming back from office. There are no proper safety measures taken by the contractor and also no police personnel are there to monitor the traffic during the peak hours,” said Kiran Pisal, a resident.Mandai market area is surrounded by both residential and market place. There is the main Mandai vegetable market, Bohri Aali Market, Tulshibaug market and Raviwar peth market surrounding the Shivaji road. Also, theDagdusheth Ganpati temple is on the same route and major traffic flow from Shaniwarwada to Swargate is witnessed by commuters daily.“There is no proper management by PMC to carry out such drainage and pipeline works in the middle of the city. As the road is dug in front of my shop, from last two weeks customer footfall to my shop has reduced down by 50 per cent. Also, no proper alternate options for pedestrians are provided and this leads to heavy crowding. People cannot walk through the dup-up road, debris lying all over and traffic congestion adds to the woes,” said Pritam Parekh, a shop owner on the Shivaji road.Senior officials from the PMC’s road department said, “The drainage and pipeline work underway on the Shivaji road will soon be completed, and we are aware of the inconvenience caused to the public due to it. We have given strict warning to the contractor and also to the water supply and drainage department to speed up the work.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/dug-up-road-add-to-commuters-woes-near-mandai-101639504622582.html
14-12-2021||Pune||Travel bug beats the Covid bug: Bookings at resorts for Christmas and New Year in full swing||PUNE Despite the rising Covid cases and fear of Omicron, the travel bug among people has not taken a beating. Bookings at resorts for Christmas and New Year’s Eve have already started. Resorts of Maharashtra Tourism Development Corporation (MTDC) in the coastal area of Konkan are drawing interest from many people. According to MTDC officials, bookings at the seaside resorts in Ganapatipule, Tarkarli, Harihareshwar are almost full for the holiday season. Hill stations such as Matheran, Mahabaleshwar, Malshej Ghat remain popular destinations. Bookings at the resorts in proximity of Pune are also filling up.“Many have planned the tours after December 18. For the weekend of Christmas that is Dec 25, almost 95% bookings have been done. This year, people are interested in resorts on the coastal side. People like to visit the sea sides and our resorts at Kunkeshwar, Velneshwar, Harihareshwar are 90% full. Hilly destinations such Matheran,Malshej and Mahabaleshwar are also in demand and 95% bookings have already been made,” said Deepak Harne, regional manager MTDC Pune. To make the stay more interesting MTDC has planned several other activities during the stay. “Adhering to the Covid protocols we are arranging many shows. Now our website also has been updated. Also, our rates remain the same throughout the season. We are going to arrange cultural programmes at each destination. There will be interesting games for the children as well. For adults there will be folk musical performances,” added Harne. Resorts in the scenic areas of Maval and Mulshi have also geared up for the upcoming season. “We are arranging a special Bollywood night for New Year’s Eve. For Christmas almost 70% of the rooms have already been booked. We also have 45 tents. After Covid, the response this year is not disappointing,” said Anup Pasalkar, owner of Maval Adventure resort on Panshet road. Owners of private resorts are hoping that Covid-induced curbs would not affect the season. “I think people are still in a confusing state of mind. Let’s hope that there will not be any more restrictions,” said Amol Gandhi, owner of Zen Spring Resort in Mulshi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/travel-bug-beats-the-covid-bug-bookings-at-resorts-for-christmas-and-new-year-in-full-swing-101639504440701.html
14-12-2021||Mumbai||SC admits petition of suspended BJP MLAs||Delhi/Mumbai: The Supreme Court (SC) on Tuesday admitted for hearing a clutch of petitions filed by 12 Bharatiya Janta Party (BJP) legislators challenging their year-long suspension from the Maharashtra legislative assembly for allegedly misbehaving with the presiding officer. Issuing notices to the state assembly and the Maharashtra government, the top court clarified that the MLAs are at liberty to approach the House for reduction of their suspension term during the pendency of the case, which will be heard next on January 22. On July 5, the assembly passed a resolution to suspend 12 MLAs for a year for allegedly heckling and misbehaving with presiding officer Bhaskar Jadhav who occupied the Speaker’s chair. Jadhav is a Shiv Sena legislator. The 12 suspended members are Sanjay Kute, Ashish Shelar, Abhimanyu Pawar, Girish Mahajan, Atul Bhatkhalkar, Parag Alavani, Harish Pimpale, Yogesh Sagar, Jay Kumar Rawat, Narayan Kuche, Ram Satpute and Bunty Bhangdia. On Tuesday, a bench headed by Justice AM Khanwilkar observed that issues raised in the matter required deeper consideration. “Needless to observe that pendency of these petitions will not come in the way of the petitioners to explore the possibility of urging upon the House to reconsider the decision impugned in these writ petitions, at least to the extent of reducing the term specified therein. That is a matter which can be considered by the House, if so advised,” the bench, which also comprised Justice CT Ravikumar, said. The winter session of the state assembly is slated to be held between December 22 and 28. Arguing for the suspended MLAs, senior advocates Mukul Rohatgi, Harish Salve, Neeraj Kishan Kaul and Siddharth Bhatnagar contended that the suspension order was in violation of the principles of natural justice since the MLAs were not given any opportunity to present their defence. Further, the MLAs argued that rules of the legislative assembly were also breached in so far as punitive actions were ordered without prior notice given to them. “The SC court has said that the action by the state legislature is subject to the legal scrutiny and set aside the contention by the state government that the action cannot be questioned. The SC has also asked the legislature to explain that under which rule the action has been initiated and suspension has been done. Though our suspension has not been scrapped by the top court, it has pressed for the detailed discussion on the action. It has also not conceded state government’s prayer to reject the petition,” Ashish Shelar, BJP legislator and one of the petitioners, said. Shelar said that as suggested by the top court they will approach the state legislature with the request to reconsider the action and reduce the period of suspension. Senior counsel CA Sundaram who represented the state government urged the bench to refrain from reviewing the decision of the House when the MLAs had not refuted the allegation of misbehaviour. He said that Article 212 of the Constitution held that the validity of any proceeding in the legislature of a state shall not be called in question on the ground of any alleged irregularity of procedure. Atul Londhe, spokesperson, Maharashtra Pradesh Congress Committee (MPCC), charged the BJP MLAs with using objectionable language against the chair, which had precipitated the action. He added that this was not vindictive action, and was justified, as against the suspension of 12 Opposition members of Parliament in the Rajya Sabha during the ongoing winter session. The Rajya Sabha on the first day of its business for the winter session which began on November 29 suspended 12 of its members, including Shiv Sena MP Priyanka Chaturvedi and Trinamool MP Dola Sen, for the remaining part of the current session. The action was taken against them for indiscipline on the last day of the monsoon session.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/sc-admits-petition-of-suspended-bjp-mlas-101639503780615.html
14-12-2021||Lucknow||SAD-BSP alliance will form next govt in Punjab: Maya||Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) chief Mayawati has claimed that the Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD)-BSP alliance will form a majority government in Punjab under the leadership of SAD president Sukhbir Singh Badal. She also said the Congress and other political parties will be wiped out in the Punjab assembly election scheduled to be held early next year. Addressing a press conference at her residence in Lucknow on Tuesday, she said, “In 1996 general election, the SAD-BSP alliance had bagged 11 out of the 13 Lok Sabha seats in Punjab. The Congress was wiped out in the election. In the coming assembly election, the history will repeat itself and the Congress besides rival parties will meet the same fate.” Mayawati also extended wishes to SAD leadership on completing 100 years. “There are a few parties in the country that have served the people for hundred years. Akali Dal is one of the oldest regional parties in the country that is fighting for the welfare and rights of the people of Punjab,” she said. “In last year hundred years, Punjab witnessed several social and political upheavals. Governments have been dismissed and Emergency has been imposed as well yet SAD has emerged as the voice of the people of Punjab,” Mayawati added. “Punjab has a special place for us. The BSP has a strong bond with the people of Punjab since decades. Punjab is the birthplace of the BSP founder Kanshi Ram. He launched a movement for the uplift of the weaker sections in society in Punjab. The BSP cadre is working hard to fulfil the dreams of Kanshi Ram,” she said.“Sukhbir Singh Badal has the blessings of former CM Prakash Singh Badal who has served the people of Punjab for a long time. Kanshi Ram had good terms with Prakash Singh Badal. The people of Punjab are aware of the fact,” former UP chief minister said. BSP national general secretary Satish Chandra Mishra is on a three-day visit to poll-bound Punjab. He will participate in the foundation day programme of SAD organised at Moga. Later, he will discuss the assembly election campaign strategy with top SAD leaders, including former CM Prakash Singh Badal, Sukhbir Singh Badal and Harsimrat Kaur Badal. On Wednesday, Mishra will hold a meeting with BSP office bearers and workers in Chandigarh. Later, he will attend a meeting of BSP-SAD candidates for the 2022 assembly election and other leaders. Besides discussing various issues associated with Punjab, he will also discuss poll strategy.The SAD forged an alliance with the BSP in June for next year’s Punjab assembly polls. According to the seat-sharing arrangement, the BSP will field candidates in 20 of the 117 assembly seats in the state while the rest will be contested by the SAD.
14-12-2021||Kolkata||HC orders CCTV surveillance in booths, strong rooms for Kolkata municipal polls||KOLKATA: A two-judge bench of the Calcutta high court on Tuesday told West Bengal’s state election commission (SEC) to install closed circuit TV (CCTV) cameras not only in all polling booths during the December 19 Kolkata Municipal Corporation (KMC) polls but also in the strong rooms where the electronic voting machines (EVMs) will be kept. The bench of chief justice Prakash Shrivastava and justice Rajarshi Bhardwaj told the SEC to provide CCTV cameras in all the main and auxiliary polling booths as also in strong rooms where EVMs will be kept.The high court was earlier informed by West Bengal’s top law officer, advocate general SN Mukherjee, that there was a provision to install CCTV cameras in 25% polling booths but the government was ready to accept Bharatiya Janata Party leader Devdutta Maji’s suggestion. Maji cited incidents of violence during the 2015 KMC polls to seek orders that all polling booths and strong rooms should be covered by CCTV cameras.The BJP, in another petition filed on Tuesday, also sought orders for deployment of central armed police forces during the muncipal polls. The petition was filed after the Supreme Court on Monday declined to hear it and asked the BJP to approach the Calcutta high court. “We cannot take decisions with respect to the requirement of central forces. High court will be in a better position to know the situation,” said the Supreme Court’s bench of justices L Nagesara Rao and BR Gavai. The petition, filed by Bengal BJP president Sukanta Majumdar, said BJP candidates are receiving threats from the ruling Trinamool Congress (TMC).A third petition filed by the BJP to seek orders to hold elections to West Bengal’s 120-odd municipal corporations and municipalities on a single day is already pending before the high court.The division bench of chief justice Prakash Shrivastava and justice Rajarshi Bhardwaj reserved its judgment on this petition on Friday. BJP’s Bengal vice-president Pratap Banerjee filed the petition.The state election commission told the bench that it wants to hold the elections in six to eight phases by May next year.During the last hearing on Friday, the Bengal’s top law officer SN Mukherjee told the high court that the KMC polls will be held on December 19 because of the better Covid vaccination status of Kolkata residents and healthcare facilities available in the city. He cited logistical problems and the Covid-19 pandemic as reasons for postponing of the polls in the remaining 22 districts.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/hc-orders-cctv-surveillance-in-booths-strong-rooms-for-kolkata-municipal-polls-101639503660609.html
14-12-2021||Pune||10,000 depositors of Shivajirao Bhosale bank get refund of ₹160 cr||Pune: The aggrieved depositors of Shivajirao Bhosale Co-operative Bank Ltd received major relief as the Employees’ State Insurance Corporation (ESIC) credited ₹160 crore benefitting 10,000 investors with their long pending refund since the irregularities hit the bank and its licence was cancelled by the Reserve Bank of India (RBI). Of the 17,000 depositors, 10,000 of them have received their refunds aggregating to ₹160 crore in the account of Bank of Baroda. Similarly, the chances of refund of deposits up to ₹5 lakh of a total of 502,000 depositors of Rupee Co-operative Bank have also brightened up in the wake of refunds being received by Shivajirao Bhosale co-op bank. Shivajirao Bhosale co-op bank administrator Dr Rajaram Dhondkar said, “Currently, we have refunded ₹160 crores to 10,000 of total 17,000 depositors and the remainder will be refunded shortly. Those who had still not submitted their KYC details must complete the procedure at the earliest for early release of funds.” The RBI had cancelled the licence issued to Shivajirao bank under Section 22 of Banking Regulation Act, 1949 as applicable to cooperative societies read with Section 56 of Act ibid, vide ED’s speaking order dated May 28, 2021. Accordingly, registration of the bank as an insured bank stood cancelled by the corporation, as at the close of business on May 31, 2021. The deposit insurance was covered up to close of business on May 31, 2021. The registrar of Co-operative Societies appointed Dr Dhondkar as the liquidator of ‘Shivajirao Bhosale Sahakari Bank Ltd, Pune, Maharashtra’, vide order dated July 1, 2021. With the cancellation of licence and commencement of liquidation proceedings, the process of paying the depositors of Shivajirao Bhosale Sahakari Bank Ltd., Pune, Maharashtra as per the Deposit Insurance and Credit Guarantee Corporation (DICGC) Act, 1961 was set in motion. The RBI stated that according to the data submitted by the bank, more than 98% of the depositors will receive full amounts of their deposits from DICGC. On liquidation, every depositor would be entitled to receive deposit insurance claim amount of deposits up to a monetary ceiling of ₹5,00,000 from the DICGC subject to the provisions of the DICGC Act, 1961. Administrator of Rupee Co-op Bank CA Sudhir Pandit claimed that all depositors of Rupee Bank will get a refund of deposits up to ₹5 lakh. “The total number of depositors is around 502,000. Of it, 99 per cent, 496,500 (approx) will get a refund of their entire deposits under any circumstances and for deposits having deposits above ₹5 lakh, which are around 4,600, will get refund up to ₹one lakh each. The supporting work of data processing is in process. The amount of deposits of the high value depositors is ₹560 cr (approx). Of it, they will get a total refund of ₹200 cr. However, in case the bank is liquidated they will lose this ₹360 crore. But we are making all efforts for the resolution of the bank by way of merger, conversion into a small finance bank or revival of the bank so that liquidation does not take place. We are hopeful for the positive outcome for this century old cooperative bank, established by the followers of Lokmanya Tilak as a drive for the Swadeshi movement and which once upon a time was one of the leading cooperative banks in the country. The bank has been continuously earning operating profit and has made excellent recovery for last five years in a row. Barring accumulated losses and negative net worth there are now regulatory issues,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/10000-depositors-of-shivajirao-bhosale-bank-get-refund-of-rs-160-cr-101639503600697.html
14-12-2021||Other||Nagaland civilian killings: Apex tribal body of 5 districts declare non-cooperation with army||Barely ten days after 13 civilians were killed in a botched military operation at Oting in Nagaland’s Mon district, Eastern Nagaland People’s Organisation (ENPO), the apex body of six Naga tribes of five districts- Mon, Tuensang, Longleng, Kiphire, and Noklak- declared non-cooperation with the armed forces until its three-point demand is fulfilled.In a chain of events that followed the Oting ambush, a security personnel also lost his life on December 4 while another civilian was killed the next day in Mon district headquarters reportedly by Assam Rifles personnel who opened fire to disperse angry protesters.The ENPO, which held a joint consultative meeting of all the civil society organizations of the five districts on Tuesday at Longleng, demanded that the security personnel who were involved in the gruesome killings of 14 innocent civilians on December 4 and 5 in Mon district should be booked under the relevant law of the country and be brought under civil court for trial.The organization also asserted that the statement of the Union Home Minister Amit Shah made in the Parliament on December 6 in regard to the Oting killings, where he had stated that the security forces fired in self-defense, should be withdrawn.The ENPO’s constituent tribes are Konyak, Khiamniungan, Phom, Sangtam, Yimkhiung and Chang.Also taking into account that such incidents would continue in the region for as long as the controversial Armed Forces (Special Powers) Act 1958 (AFSPA) is enforced, the ENPO demanded that the Centre revoke the “draconian law” from all northeastern states.Highlighting its non-cooperation with the security forces, the ENPO stated that it would entail abstaining from any national celebrations, non-participation in army civic programmes, non-attendance to any army invitations, not allowing any recruitment drive within the eastern Nagaland area.The influential ENPO also announced to hold public rallies in all its tribal headquarters on December 16 as a sign of protest against the brutal murder of innocent public and injuring several others and to continue to demand justice.The Konyak Union, the main tribal body of Mon district, had also announced similar regulations to maintain non-cooperation with the security forces. The parameters included a total restriction on armed forces to convoy and patrol within “Konyaks soil”, no military recruitment rally within Mon district, no Konyak youth to participate in any army recruitment rally, no Konyak village council or any of its civil organizations should accept any form of developmental package/assistance from the army, and the same to denounce immediately any assured package/assistance from the forces.The Konyak Union has also directed all customary landowners to immediately denounce past land-agreement allotted for setting up military base camps (operating points) within its respective jurisdiction (Naginimora, Tizit, Lampong Sheanghah, Wakching Town, Mon Town, Longshen Town, Sheanghah Wamsa, Longwa, Chenmoho, Chenloishu, Wangti, Aboi, Angjangyang, Tobu and Monyakshu etc.).Further, the union has instructed all Konyak offices, schools and institutions to hoist black flags and vehicles to carry black flags until justice is served.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/nagaland-civilian-killings-apex-tribal-body-of-5-districts-declare-non-cooperation-with-army-101639503484332.html
14-12-2021||Lucknow||BJP’s “double-engine” colliding: Akhilesh||Samajwadi Party (SP) president Akhilesh Yadav on Tuesday said the “double-engine” government of the BJP had “failed” with its engines colliding against each other, accusing it of disappointing farmers and the jobless youth in Uttar Pradesh. “Under the BJP government, income has come down by half, inflation went up by double. Had farmers not toiled despite Covid, the country’s economy had been even worse,” he alleged.“BJP’s MPs, MLAs are not allowed entry in villages for their failure and this double engine government’s engines are colliding head-on with each other,” he told reporters at the press conference he held at the helipad soon after he arrived in Jaunpur for his two-day (Tuesday and Wednesday) visit to resume his “rath yatra” poll campaign.“The farmers will never forget the Lakhimpur Kheri incident. First, this government introduced three black farm laws, then insulted the agitating farmers. Over 700 farmers lost their lives in the agitation. And then looking at the elections in UP and Punjab, the government withdrew the black laws. So many farmers would not have lost their lives had this government listened to us and the farmers. BJP people mowed down farmers by SUVs,” he further alleged. Adding to Akhilesh’s comment, SP state spokesperson Rajendra Chaudhary said: “Akhilesh ji had been demanding the dismissal of the MoS (home) since day one”. Moreover, the SP leader also alleged that chief minister Yogi Adityanath did not take a dip in the Ganga in Varanasi on Monday because he knew that the river was “dirty”. He also alleged that all the money meant for the cleaning of rivers flowed down the drain and all the rivers in the state —Ganga, Yamuna, Hindon or Gomti—were dirty.“Out of his intelligence and wisdom, our chief minister (Yogi Adityanath) did not take a dip in the Maa Ganga (the river Ganga) for the river is dirty,” Akhilesh said. Prime Minister Narendra Modi had taken a dip in the Ganga in Varanasi before he inaugurated the Kashi Vishwanath Corridor on Monday. “Someone was getting photographed (Modi) while someone else stood by the sidelines watching. Imagine someone who has to be the ‘groom’ in the (UP) elections stood aside,” he alleged. A dip in the Ganga by PM Modi was one of the highlights of the KV Corridor inauguration event. When asked about PM Modi’s breaking bread with labourers at the KV Corridor event, Akhilesh said: “Who doesn’t eat with labourers. I did it so many times. But the issue is not sharing food with them, the issue is providing nutritious food to labourers regularly. Would BJP government tell why it scrapped the nutritious food scheme introduced for labourers by the previous SP government?” He said his “Vijay Rath” was continuously riding amid people and getting their support. Akhilesh’s alliance partners Suheldev Bharatiya Samaj Party (SPSP) chief Om Prakash Rajbhar, Janwadi Party (Socialist) chief Sanjay Chauhan, Apna Dal (Krishna Patel faction) chief Krishna Patel and former BSP leader Ramachal Rajbhar who recently joined the SP were with Akhilesh at the press conference.“What I have been saying since the start that the SP along with its allies and public support will win 400 seats might turn out to be true,” he said. When asked about the PM Modi’s “red colour is red alert” comment, Akhilesh said: “These people have no understanding of the red colour. Red is the colour of happiness, anger and revolution. Is BJP people’s blood of black colour, no it is also red.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/bjps-double-engine-colliding-akhilesh-101639503061387.html
14-12-2021||Lucknow||Give topmost priority to ‘ease of living’ of people, PM tells CMs of BJP-ruled states||VARANASI Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday called upon BJP-ruled states to accord top-most priority to “ease of living” of people and carve a niche for their governments in some or the other sector of governance. The BJP’s aim is development and focus is to improve ‘ease of living’, he said while chairing a meeting with chief ministers of 12 BJP-ruled states at Banaras Locomotive Works (BLW) auditorium in Varanasi. BJP president JP Nadda, who welcomed the PM at the venue, said “BJP and good governance had become synonymous” and it was the only party that sought popular mandate on the basis of its performance.The PM reaffirmed the principle of “minimum government, maximum governance” and urged the states to remove laws that had become archaic and reduce compliance burdens.The meeting was focused on good governance practices for the betterment of citizens. Chief ministers and deputy CMs made presentations to highlight key welfare schemes of their respective states and elaborated on innovative governance practices they ushered in. Some of the best practices discussed included climate resilient infra projects, issuance of family identity cards, schemes for promotion of natural farming, rural livelihood programmes with self help groups, etc.Highlighting the importance of technology in governance, Modi called for governance to be data driven to ensure last mile delivery, speed and transparency.The PM asked the states to work on ‘One District, One Product’ scheme as a means to boost economic opportunities and strengthen the quest to become Aatmanirbhar. He also said that once this initiative gains currency in the states, they must also look at exporting their products overseas and creating a global market for the products. Modi also spoke about the importance of youth development and women empowerment as priority sectors for every government. In this context, he mentioned the need to strengthen Poshan Abhiyan and fight the menace of malnutrition. He also stressed on popularising a culture of sports and fitness among the youth.The PM and UP chief minister Yogi Adityanath arrived at the auditorium in the same vehicle from the Bareka guest house. Modi asked all the CMs, including Yogi Adityanath, to apprise people of various welfare and development schemes implemented by the government. “In a democracy, people are everything. In such a situation, it is very important to take care of the interest of public. There should be no laxity in implementing developmental schemes,” said the PM, according to senior BJP leaders. Party sources said the PM praised the Yogi Adityanath government, saying that if any work was done with determination, then no one could stop it from being completed, in an apparent reference to the newly constructed Kashi Vishwanath Corridor. Chief minister Yogi Adityanath had monitored the project and inspected it a record 50 times. “Medical colleges have been constructed in a number of districts in UP and air connectivity improved because of the construction of airports in several districts. Today, the state is on the path of development due to the working of the Yogi government,” the stated the PM, according to a senior BJP leader. The PM told the CM to ensure 100% implementation of development schemes in their respective states. “Full benefits of the schemes should go to the people. Work on it and ensure it,” he added. Among those who attended the meeting were Uttar Pradesh CM Yogi Adityanath, Madhya Pradesh CM Shivraj Singh Chouhan, Tripura CM Biplab Dev, Haryana CM Manohar Lal Khattar, Himachal CM Jai Ram Thakur, Karnataka CM Basavaraj Bommai, Assam CM Hemant Vishwa Sharma, Gujarat CM Bhupendra Bhai Patel, Uttarakhand CM Pushkar Singh Dhami, Manipur CM N Vishen Singh, Arunachal CM Pema Khandu, Bihar deputy CM Tarakeswar Prasad and Renu Devi, UP deputy CMs Keshav Prasad Maurya and Dinesh Sharma. Meeting with Kashi BJP leaders Earlier in the day, the PM held a meeting with office-bearers of Varanasi unit of the BJP. Giving the mantra of victory, Modi asked party MLAs to stay in touch with people of their respective constituencies and maintain continuity of interaction with them. The PM told BJP leaders to apprise people of welfare schemes of the state and central governments by organizing small chaupals in villages, towns, localities and colonies. “During the meetings, do talk about the government’s vision of Sabka Saath-Sabka Vikas,” he said. Before the meeting, he first met UP BJP president Swatantra Dev Singh and inquired about the situation in the state. Thereafter, he spoke to BJP national general secretary (organization) BL Santhosh. Among others who met the PM were Varanasi district BJP president Hansraj Vishwakarma, city unit president Vidyasagar Rai and Kashi region BJP president Mahesh Srivastava. Six BJP MLAs of Varanasi, Saurav Srivastava, Surendra Kumar Singh, Awadhesh Singh, Ravindra Jaiswal, and Neelkanth Tiwari also met Modi. The PM Modi saw the report card of the BJP MLAs before meeting them, according to party sources.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/give-topmost-priority-to-ease-of-living-of-people-pm-tells-cms-of-bjp-ruled-states-101639502305328.html
14-12-2021||Mumbai||In Sachin Vaze’s new stand, he does not remember paying bribes to Anil Deshmukh||MUMBAI: Dismissed police officer Sachin Vaze told the justice (retired) KU Chandiwal commission on Tuesday that former Maharashtra home minister Anil Deshmukh and his office staff never made any demands for money from him. Also, he claimed he did not collect money from any bar owners and therefore there was no occasion for him to handover any money to the personal secretary of the then home minister.Vaze’s assertion on Tuesday is at variance with his three statements to the Enforcement Directorate (ED) where the sacked police officer claimed that he was instructed to collect bribes from bars and restaurants in Mumbai for Deshmukh, who was arrested by ED last month and is in judicial custody.The Kailas Uttamchand Chandiwal commission of inquiry was constituted by the Maharashtra government in March this year to look into the allegations of corruption levelled by former Mumbai Police commissioner Param Bir Singh against Deshmukh.It is not clear if, or how Sachin Vaze’s new stand on Anil Deshmukh will impact the multiple cases against the minister and his top aides who are being investigated by the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) and ED.Also Read: Cited in Param Bir Singh charge sheet: Sachin Vaze, cops and bookiesAs Anil Deshmukh’s lawyer Girish Kulkarni cross-examined Sachin Vaze on Tuesday, he insisted that he never collected money (from Mumbai’s bars and restaurants) for Deshmukh or for his staff. Vaze also said that he never gave any money to Deshmukh or his staff and also, Deshmukh or his ministry never interfered with the investigations of Crime Intelligence Unit (CIU) that Vaze previosuly headed, said Kulkarni.Asked if anyone from Anil Deshmukh’s office or he himself asked Vaze to collect money from bars or restaurants, the dismissed cop said that he doesn’t remember anything. The former police officer, who in the past also alleged that Deshmukh demanded ₹2 crore to let him continue in service, was asked if there was any occasion when he had to pay former home minister Anil Deshmukh. He responded saying, “No”. Advocate Kulkarni asked Vaze, “I suggest, there was no payment by you to Kundan Shinde (Deshmukh’s personal assistant who is also in judicial custody) in the capacity as staff of Anil Deshmukh or otherwise ?” To this Vaze responded saying, “l do not recollect.”Vaze’s denial comes days after a special Mumbai court declined bail to Shinde, underlining that the court could not disbelieve allegations of bribes being paid to the former minister’s aide even though these were made by Vaze whose integrity is under question.ED earlier alleged that while serving as the Maharashtra home minister, Deshmukh misused his position, and through assistant police inspector Sachin Vaze — who has now been dismissed and is in Taloja jail for his alleged role in the Antilia explosives scare and Mansukh Hiran murder cases — collected ₹4.7 crore from Mumbai’s bars for their “smooth functioning”. In its chargesheet, the agency stated that Vaze used to visit Deshmukh’s official residence Dnyaneshwari regularly. Vaze allegedly collected ₹4.7 crore from various bar owners between December 2020 and February 2021, at Deshmukh’s behest. According to the agency, Vaze gave the extorted money to Shinde and subsequently, a part of the amount was routed to the charitable trust in Nagpur through various shell companies.Deshmukh resigned as home minister on April 5, less than a month after former police commissioner Param Bir Singh wrote to chief minister Uddhav Thackeray and other senior government officials, alleging that the minister ran an extortion racket. The Bombay HC ordered a federal probe into these allegations, which prompted Deshmukh’s resignation on “moral grounds”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/in-sachin-vaze-s-new-stand-he-does-not-remember-paying-bribes-to-anil-deshmukh-101639501405052.html
14-12-2021||Pune||Naidu hospital floor in Pune reserved for Omicron cases||In view of the Omicron Covid variant threat, Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) has reserved a floor at the infection control Naidu hospital exclusively for those who test positive for the new variant that first emerged in Africa. Although the jumbo facility at College of Engineering Pune (CoEP) has not been dismantled due to heavy financial requirements, the civic body aims to first utilise its existing hospitals and then open the new Baner and CoEP jumbo facility. The paediatric ward at Rajiv Gandhi facility as well will be equipped with ventilators and neonatal intensive care unit (NICU) beds some of which would be sponsored through CSR. Dr Ashish Bharti, chief of Pune Municipal Corporation’s health department said, “An entire floor at Naidu infection control hospital has been identified for Omicron patients in case the numbers go high. The total capacity at Naidu hospital is about 100 beds. We also have about 611 beds at BJ Medical college. We have prepared other hospitals like the one at Bopodi (55), Laigude hospital (50) which are currently operating non-Covid-19 patients. We have identified the jumbo hospital which has been kept ready just in case the numbers go high. However, we are not planning to restart the facilities as yet as it would cost heavily on the civic body exchequer. So, we will first use the existing municipal infrastructure and then if needed restart the jumbo facility, if at all the cases go up. We do not know as of now if and when the third wave will hit the city. But we are prepared with adequate medicines, drugs, oxygen and other infrastructure.” As of Tuesday, Pune city has two patients who were informed to be infected with the Omicron variant. One among the two has already been discharged after testing negative and the other has been institutionally quarantined. Dr Bharti said that the paediatric ward at Rajiv Gandhi hospital would also have about 14 NICU and 25 paediatric intensive care unit (PICU) beds. “We are hoping that the mother and child hospital would be ready by the 1st-2nd week of January as we are also getting extra ventilators and equipment through CSR which should be with us by next week,” he said. As per the PMC health department data, in the first wave the city saw 22,792 patients in the age group of 0-18 years which was about 11.15% of the total patients. Of these, 31 were reported dead which is about 0.14% fatality rate. In the second wave, 30,157 kids were reported infected with Covid-19 infection, however as the second wave was more fatal and widespread than the first wave the percentage of infection among kids was lower than the first wave at 9.95% and 26 were reported dead which was about 0.09%. The second numbers account for March 1, 2021 to December 8, 2021 and so 98 kids are still undergoing treatment for the same.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/naidu-hospital-floor-in-pune-reserved-for-omicron-cases-101639501285014.html
14-12-2021||Delhi||Omicron patients showing mild symptoms, no need for critical care yet: LNJP doctor||A day after Delhi’s first Omicron patient was discharged, a top medical expert in the city said on Tuesday those found infected with the new strain of Covid-19 were having “mild” symptoms and did not need admission in the intensive care unit (ICU).Suresh Kumar, medical director at the Lok Nayak Jai Prakash Narayan (LNJP) Hospital, said that the first patient returned home “completely healthy” 10 days after testing positive for the virus.“The Omicron patient discharged today came from Zimbabwe on December 2 and had a slight throat discomfort and weakness initially, but returned completely healthy after 10 days. Omicron patients have mild symptoms, stable oxygen rates and no need for ICU,” Dr Kumar was quoted as saying by news agency ANI.Also read | Delhi reports 4 more cases of Omicron, tally rises to 6Several health agencies such as the World Health Organisation (WHO) and the European Medicines Agency (EMA) have also said there was no evidence to show that Omicron causes more severe ailment but have also warned that more data was needed to ascertain the severity and transmissibility of the variant.The first patient to be discharged in Delhi was a 37-year-old man from Ranchi, Jharkhand, and had tested positive on December 2 after arriving at the national capital from Tanzania.Meanwhile, four more persons tested positive for the new variant in Delhi on Tuesday. However, all were found asymptomatic, Dr Kumar said. “The four new Omicron patients are asymptomatic, two came from the United Kingdom and the other two were their close contacts,” he said.He also said that at least two more Covid-19 patients of the remaining 38 were being discharged from the hospital during the day. “Two to three more Covid-19 patients, of the 38 in LNJP, will be discharged today. Currently, we have 50 dedicated beds and will increase the same if required,” he said.Earlier in the day, Delhi health minister Satyendar Jain said all the four new Omicron patients had travelled to foreign countries, adding the remaining patients in the hospital were stable.Noting that the Delhi government was prepared to tackle the spread of the variant, he said, “All necessary steps are being taken to stop the spread of the new Omicron variant. The Delhi government is keeping a sharp eye on the new cases and contacts of Omicron-infected patients are being traced.”Delhi reported 45 new Covid-19 cases and no new deaths in the last 24 hours as the city’s total caseload reached 14,41,793 cases and death toll remained at 25,100, according to latest data.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/omicron-patients-showing-mild-symptoms-no-need-for-critical-care-yet-lnjp-doctor-101639500601809.html
14-12-2021||Patna||JMM considering constituting party’s OBC Morcha||RANCHI: In an effort to widen its social base, the ruling Jharkhand Mukti Morcha (JMM) is considering to constitute an Other Backward Classes (OBC) wing in its organisation, people aware of the development said.Formally launched as a political party in 1984, the JMM has cultivated and carried the image of being a party for the tribals, who according to 2011 census make 26.4% of the 3.29 crore popluation in Jharkhand. It also led the demand for a separate state of Jharkhand.However, people aware of the development said, the party is now considering to formally constitute a dedicated wing in its organisation for the OBCs, who according to political activists make over 50 per cent of the state’s population. A resolution over the issue could be brought up for discussion and adoption in its upcoming 12th three-yearly national convention on December 19, which will be chaired by party president Shibu Soren.“Discussion over the issue is on. Chief minister Hemant Soren who is also the working president of the party is likely to take a final call over the issue in a day or two. If approved by the central leadership, a resolution for the same would be adopted at the national convention,” a senior party leader said.With identity politics being a major factor in the country, there has been a growing domination of the OBC groups across the country in electoral politics. Barring the BJP, almost all political parties have been demanding for caste-based census and subsequent increase in reservation in jobs and educational institutions commensurate with their actual population.All parties in Jharkhand had promised to increase reservation for OBCs ahead of the 2019 assembly polls. While the JMM, Congress, RJD and Ajsu Party promised to increase quota for OBCs to 27 % from the existing 14 %, the BJP promised to increase OBC reservation within the constitutional provisions.
14-12-2021||Other||Cong ended monarchy by ousting Capt: Punjab CM Channi||Sangrur Punjab chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi claimed on Tuesday that the Congress had ended monarchy by replacing Capt Amarinder Singh. “Rahul Gandhi eliminated monarchy and handed power to a common man like me. The Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) is celebrating its 100th anniversary. I wanted to attend their function...parties are not bad, but sometimes leaders are bad. The team of the Congress has changed and people like it, but the SAD is being led by Sukhbir and Majithia who have defamed it. The SAD cannot revive under their leadership; for a democracy, however, a strong opposition is required,” said Channi, addressing a gathering in Deh Kalan village. Channi laid the foundation stones of Shree Cement plant and Medical College in Deh Kalan and Ghabdan villages, respectively. Punjab finance minister Manpreet Singh Badal, public works department minister Vijay Inder Singla and Dhuri MLA Dalvir Singh Goldy accompanied Channi. Attacking Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) national convener and Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal, Channi termed him an outsider. “How can they (AAP Delhi leaders) be common man of Punjab? They came to Punjab to loot the state. Their Delhi leadership does not even use pictures of state chief Bhagwant Mann. They are just seeking a chance for Kejriwal,” he claimed.He added that the ₹700 crore Punjab Cement Plant project would ensure direct and indirect employment to thousands of youth, and ₹350-crore medical college would offer quality health care. Dhiman skips eventAmargarh MLA Surjit Singh Dhiman skipped Channi’s event; in a related development, state Congress chief Navjot Singh Sidhu had visited the Dirba residence of Dhiman and held a meeting for over an hour on Monday night.“I was busy in a meeting in Chandigarh on Tuesday. Sidhu visited my place for a routine meeting, as he had not visited here since taking charge as the PPC chief. I will contest from the same seat, but I also demand a ticket from Sunam for my son Jaswinder Dhiman. If the party gives two tickets to other families, we must also be given two. In the case of one ticket per family, my son will contest,” said Dhiman told HT over phone.UNEMPLOYED RAISE SLOGANS AT RALLYAspiring BEd and ETT teachers raised slogans at the CM’s rallies. Some members of BEd Teachers’ Union and the ETT-TET Unemployed Teachers’ Union managed to enter the venues, but the cops took them away after a scuffle. On a call from the Government College Guest Faculty Assistant Professor Association Punjab, guest faculty professors and student unions protested at the gate of the Government Ranbir College, Sangrur; CM Channi skipped his scheduled visit here. Unemployed BEd Teachers’ Union president Sukhwinder Singh Dhilwan said the turban of their member Kulwant Singh Longowal was removed by men on security duty with the CM.
14-12-2021||Lucknow||Mainpuri girl student’s death: Former principal of Jawahar Navodaya Vidyalaya arrested||A special investigation team (SIT) probing the case of mysterious death of a girl student at Jawahar Navodaya Vidyalaya in Mainpuri in 2019, arrested former principal of the school on Monday. A student of Class 11 at Jawahar Navodaya Vidyalaya, the girl was found dead in suspicious condition on September 16, 2019 inside the school. Her family members had raised apprehension of rape. Report was lodged against the then principal Sushma Sagar, warden of the hostel and two students.“Sushma Sagar, the then principal of the school, was arrested and presented before a court in Mainpuri on Monday. The court has sent her to jail,” said SSP Mainpuri Ashok Kumar Rai. This arrest was made by the second SIT constituted following the tough stance adopted by the Allahabad high court in September this year. The investigation of the first three-member SIT had remained inconclusive. The Uttar Pradesh government has already suspended three police officers after the high court’s observation.The SIT had visited the school where the girl was found dead and examined the report of first investigation, post mortem report, DNA test and forensic findings, including the polygraph tests, conducted in the case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/mainpuri-girl-student-s-death-former-principal-of-jawahar-navodaya-vidyalaya-arrested-101639500444828.html
14-12-2021||Patna||After Jamui med college foundation stone laying, Chirag fumes over Centre’s neglect||Jamui district on Tuesday finally witnessed online foundation stone laying of long-awaited medical college and hospital, which would cost ₹500-crore, by Chief Minister Nitish Kumar, but the politics over it did not stop.Midway through the function in Jamui, where local leader and Bihar minister Sumit Kumar and BJP MLA Shreyashi Singh were also present, Lok Janshakti Party (Ramvilas) leader and Jamui MP Chirag Paswan once again hit out at the Bihar Chief Minister Nitish Kumar, accusing him of “usurping the Centre’s project” by making it look like a Bihar government project.“The foundation stone laying is more than two years late, which shows the failure of the state government. It had to execute the project. Had it been on time, it would have saved many lives during the Covid-19 pandemic. When the foundation stone is so delayed, God knows how long its inauguration would take if things move at the same pace,“ he added.He, however, said that he was happy the first hurdle had been finally crossed after three tenders. “I was there in Jamui, but the CM did not feel the need to visit here for a project that people of the district had been waiting for so long and I have myself written a couple of times to CM not to delay it further. But I was surprised to see that it has been made out to be a state government project, while the fact is that the Centre gave it to Jamui and I have been personally instrumental in it. Centre has provided the major share of fund for it,” he added.Chirag said that there was not even one poster of Prime Minister Narendra Modi or any central leader, while all the hoardings and banners had Nitish Kumar’s picture. “No representative of the union government was invited. Only CM and Bihar ministers are visible here. On Monday, I talked to the union health minister’s office about it, and he was not even aware of the foundation stone laying,” he added.Bihar minister Dr Ashok Choudhary, who is also the in-charge minister of Jamui, said that BJP’s Mangal Pandey as the health minister was there at the foundation stone laying function and he should be more concerned about it. “Why should Chirag be worried about it?” he asked.Another minister Sumit Kumar, who was in Jamui, hit back at Chirag, saying he had come just for a photo shoot.In August also, Chirag had trained his gun at the Bihar government, accusing it of going slow on the medical college project in his constituency. 
14-12-2021||Patna||Newly elected mukhiya shot dead in rural Patna||Unidentified gunmen on Tuesday morning allegedly shot dead a newly elected head of the Faridpur panchayat at his office situated on Phulwarisharif-Khagaul main road in Patna district, said police.Neeraj Mahto was the fourth newly elected mukhiya killed after winning the election in the last month. Caste and political rivalry are said to be the reasons behind the sensational killing. Police said that the incident occurred around 9 am when Mahto was sitting outside his chamber with six to eight villagers. Some unidentified bike-borne assailants opened indiscriminate fire. The critically injured Mahto was rushed to a nearby hospital, where the doctors declared him brought dead. An eyewitness, Dinesh Yadav, said that local people and residents of neighbouring villages arrived at the site of the murder and staged a protest. They did not allow the police to take away his body and demanded the arrest of the accused. The agitated mob blocked Naubatpur-Danapur road, disrupted vehicular traffic for more than five hours and chased the police team who tried to disperse them. City SP (West) Ashok Kumar Mishra rushed to the spot and tried to pacify the protesters but people demanded the arrival of Chief Minister Nitish Kumar. Police said that the deceased was elected second time as mukhiya from Faridpur panchayat on November 17, for which the election was held on November 15. Slain mukhiya’s brother Manish Kumar said, “My brother had just arrived at his office when two persons forcibly brought him from his residence for signing a paper. Suddenly, two armed criminals with faces covered reached the spot and fired indiscriminately. A CCTV installed in and around the office captured their act.” City SP said that police were waiting for the statement of the deceased’s family members. “We have deputed special force in the village and the situation is under control now,” Mishra added. . 
14-12-2021||Patna||Bihar’s air quality deteriorates with dip in mercury||With a dip in temperature, the air quality index (AQI) turned ‘very poor’ in the state on Tuesday.According to the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB), an overall air quality index (AQI) of Patna based on six air monitoring stations stood at 313 which was categorised under ‘very poor’. Observatories near Planetarium, Danapur, Samanpura and Rajbansi Nagar inched closed to ‘severe’ air pollution where AQI levels fluctuated between 350 to 380. Muradpur-based apparatus recorded ‘poor’ and Shikapur ‘moderate’ AQI.The CPCB classifies an AQI of zero to 50 as ‘good’, 51-100 as ‘satisfactory’, 101-200 as ‘moderate’, 201-300 as ‘poor’, 301-400 as ‘very poor’ and above 401 as ‘severe’.Apart from Patna, Muzaffarpur also recorded ‘very poor’ air quality with an index value of 346. Gaya recorded ‘poor’ air quality with an index value of 233.Meanwhile, the maximum temperature in the state remained 22°C while the minimum temperature was around 10°C.As per Patna Meteorological Centre, Gaya remained the coldest in the state with the lowest minimum temperature of 7.8°C. Patna recorded a maximum temperature of 24.2°C and a minimum temperature of 9.2°C.As per data available, Patna recorded ‘very poor’ AQI five times in 15 days this month.Bihar Pollution Control Board’s chairman Ashok Ghosh, said, “Rise in air pollution with a dip in mercury in common during the winter season as low temperature causes thermal immersion which traps air pollutants and obstructs them from rising high.”Ghosh said the pollution control board is working closely with concerned departments including road and building construction, agriculture, environment and urban development for reducing air pollution levels in the state.He said, “In a recent meeting, we have emphasised construction department to ensure coverage of construction sites with green screen. Similarly, other departments are also working on assigned tasks for reducing air pollution in the state. However, we need to put consistent efforts for a couple of years to get visible improvement in air pollution in the state”, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/bihars-air-quality-deteriorates-with-dip-in-mercury-101639500024827.html
14-12-2021||Patna||‘Botched’ eye surgeries: Govt to provide financial help to victims: Nitish||PATNA: Chief minister Nitish Kumar on Tuesday announced that the state government would provide financial assistance to all those victims whose eyes had to be removed after an alleged botched up cataract surgery held at a free camp in Muzaffarpur on November 22.As many as 17 out of 65 people, who underwent the surgery, had to get their one of the eyes removed after they developed infections. Speaking for the first time on the issue, Kumar said that all those who were involved in the act won’t be spared. “Action is being taken against them. We are not going to leave anybody. We are inquiring every aspect of the matter. Private hospitals have to work efficiently,” Kumar said, while speaking at a function to inaugurate health department’s command and control centre, a first of its kind in the country. The chief minister further said that quantum of financial help to those affected persons would be decided soon. Last week, few patients recuperating at Shrikrishna Medical College and Hospital (SKMCH) at Muzaffarpur with one eye removed and cataract in the other, had made a fervent appeal to the chief minister to come to their rescue and save them from a bleak future staring at them.Kumar also laid the foundation stone of different health projects worth ₹1,919.95 crore including medical college and hospital at Jamui estimated to be constructed at a cost of ₹500 crore. The CM also announced a slew of other health projects planned including a dormitory for attendants near AIIMS-Patna and additional land for the expansion of the AIIMS-P. He also said that state government would also construct a super specialty hospital for children and is planning to bring more diseases under the ambit of CM Health Relief Fund. Alert over Omicron threatWhile congratulating the health officials for vaccinating over 90 million people with both first and second dose, the CM said, “We are on high alert in view of the Omicron threat. Till now, over 90 million Covid-19 vaccinations have been conducted in Bihar. We will achieve 100% vaccination soon.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/botched-eye-surgeries-govt-to-provide-financial-help-to-victims-nitish-101639499964930.html
14-12-2021||Delhi||International terrorist group’s involvement in Bihar’s Darbhanga railway blast, Centre tells Parliament||The government on Tuesday confirmed the involvement of a foreign-based terrorist group in the bomb blast at the Darbhanga Railway Station, earlier this year. The ministry of home affairs confirmed this in Lok Sabha, in response to BJP MP Gopal Jee Thakur’s question.“During the investigation of the case pertaining to bomb blast at Darbhanga Railway Station, conspiracy hatched by a foreign-based terrorist organisation has surfaced,” said minister of state home affairs Nityanand Rai.On June 17, a bundle of clothes exploded while being carried from the parcel van of a train at the railway station. However, no one was injured. A bottle containing some liquid was found stashed inside the damaged parcel bundle and it was sent for forensic examination. The consignment had been booked from Secunderbad railway station.“So far, there is no plan to establish a Key Location Plan of Central Armed Forces in the station area and will be decided on the basis of operational necessity and location suitability,” said the minister.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/international-terrorist-group-s-involvement-in-bihar-s-darbhanga-railway-blast-centre-tells-parliament-101639499844650.html
14-12-2021||Other||Punjab cabinet nod to calling applications for 25,000 EWS houses||Chandigarh Punjab cabinet on Tuesday approved the inviting of applications for allotment of 25,000 economically weaker section (EWS) category houses that the urban development authorities will construct. Chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi chaired the meeting at the Punjab Bhawan. The applications for these dwelling units, each with a carpet area of 30 square metre, would be invited from EWS families, which do not own a dwelling unit. Allotment will be through a lottery system, Channi told reporters after the meeting with food and civil supplies minister Bharat Bhushan Ashu and transport minister Amrinder Singh Raja Warring accompanying him. At present, 397 acre is available for EWS housing with all development authorities and WAPCOS Ltd, a public sector undertaking, has been engaged for this project for end-to-end execution. On March 9, the cabinet had approved the EWS Housing Policy.Tax exemption for autos, mini-buses To give relief to transport sector, reeling from financial losses due to the Covid-19 lockdown, the cabinet approved exemption from the Motor Vehicle Tax to contract carriage vehicles (up to 16-seater), buses of religious organisations and stage carriage buses (up to 35 seaters). Rates would be reduced from ₹30,000 to ₹20,000 per bus per year for all types of stage carriage buses (up to 35 seats, private/STUs). The 5% annual increase in the rate of Motor Vehicle Tax will also be withdrawn. Nearly 60,000 three-wheeler and taxi owners are expected to benefit. It also decided to reduce 10% simple interest plus 3% penal interest on outstanding dues of developers such as EDC to 8.5% compounded annually in urban development authorities. The normal and penal rates of interest will also drop to 7.5% compounded annually, and 10% compounded annually for new as well as ongoing projects, a spokesperson added. Creation of 775 jobs in 28 health institutions The cabinet approved creation of 775 posts, including senior medical officers, medical officers, staff nurses, pharmacists, laboratory technicians etc by upgrading 28 health institutions, besides giving nod to a Trauma Centre at Community Health Centre at Morinda. Of these, 69 new posts across cadre will be created at Trauma Centres in Pathankot and Jalandhar. Also, 50 posts will be abolished as per department norms upon upgrade of these health institutions. Creation and filling of 513 new posts has been approved to operationalise the newly-built Central Jail at Sri Goindwal Sahib. 229 govt schools to be upgraded The cabinet also approved upgrade of 229 schools to improve access to school education and ensure that students do not have to travel long distances. The decision has been taken in the wake of requests from gram panchayats and municipal councillors. To ward off unnecessary litigation, the cabinet also decided to allot residential plots up to 300 square yards to 450 families/occupants of built up houses/plots who have been residing for long in Urban Estate Phases 2 and 3, situated in Preet Nagar, Guru Arjan Dev Nagar, Ajit road etc in Bathinda on “as is where is basis” on 29 acre of acquired land of the Bathinda Development Authority (BDA) by charging the cost of land and development charges in lump-sum. Foodgrain labour and cartage policy In view of the procurement season that begins from April 1 next year, the cabinet has approved the Punjab Food Grains Labour and Cartage Policy and the Punjab Food Grains Transportation Policy, 2022, for labour and cartage and transportation of food grains from mandis to its storage points. The labour and cartage work, besides transportation of foodgrains, would be allocated through a competitive and transparent online tender system. Commission for general category The CM also announced that the state government has decided to set up a commission to address issues that general category residents are facing. The matter will be put up before the state cabinet in its next meeting on Thursday for approval, Channi added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/punjab-cabinet-nod-to-calling-applications-for-25-000-ews-houses-101639499365103.html
14-12-2021||Kolkata||Big farmers' protest to take place in West Bengal: Suvendu Adhikari||Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader and leader of opposition in West Bengal Suvendu Adhikari on Tuesday said a big farmers' movement will take place in the state.Speaking to ANI, Adhikari said, "West Bengal's condition is bad. There is black marketing of fertilizers and no subsidy on electricity. Three farmers have died by suicide within two months. Mamata Banerjee removed the Pradhan Mantri Fasal Bima Yojana and implemented a third-party scheme. This impacted the farmers badly. A big farmers' movement will take place in Bengal. There will be a central rally."West Bengal BJP launched a three-day sit-in at Singur on Tuesday to corner the TMC-led Mamata Banerjee government over the farmers' issue in West Bengal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/big-farmers-protest-to-take-place-in-west-bengal-suvendu-adhikari-101639498706626.html
14-12-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab logs 20 new Covid cases, one death||Punjab on Tuesday registered 20 fresh cases of Covid-19 while one more patient succumbed to the virus, according to a medical bulletin. The state’s tally of positive cases has reached 6,03,780 while the death toll stands at 16,622. Among fresh cases, Tarn Taran recorded the maximum five, followed by three in Patiala. With 21 patients getting discharged in the past 24 hours, the number of those recovered has reached 5,86,815 while the active caseload stands at 343. The state’s positivity rate for the day remained 0.11%. A total of 1,64,97,782 samples have been collected for testing so far, of which 17,869 were tested on Tuesday. Meanwhile, 10,3376 doses of vaccine were administered during the day across Punjab.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-logs-20-new-covid-cases-one-death-101639496904204.html
14-12-2021||Lucknow||It’s our responsibility to bring spiritual gurus’ contribution to light: PM||VARANASI Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday said that the contribution of spiritual gurus in the freedom movement had not been recorded in history the way it should have been, but the younger generation was being introduced to their role.“There were many saints who left their spiritual practices and participated in the freedom struggle. Their contribution was not recorded in history the way it should have been. When we are celebrating Amrit Mahotsav, it is our responsibility to bring this contribution to light. So today, the country is remembering the contribution of its saints and gurus and introducing it to the young generation,” said Modi while addressing the 98th anniversary celebrations of Sadguru Sadafal Dev Vihangam Yog Sansthan here.The occasion also marked the 100th anniversary of freedom fighter, Sadguru Sadafal Deo Ji Maharaj’s imprisonment when he was charged with inciting mutiny amongst Indian soldiers against the British rule. The PM said Sant Sadafal Dev was one of the first people to go to jail in the non-cooperation movement during the freedom struggle. He also greeted the citizens on the occasion of Geeta Jayanti.“During freedom movement, Sadguru gave a mantra of Swadeshi. Now, the nation has started the Aatmanirbhar Bharat Mission. Local trade, business and products are being strengthened. Local is being made global,” said the Prime Minister.“By giving strength to the local business and focusing on employment generation, the local is being made global,” said Modi. He emphasized that cities like Varanasi had preserved the seeds of India’s identity, art and entrepreneurship, even in the toughest of times. “Where there is a seed, the tree begins to expand from there. And that is why, when we talk about the development of Banaras, it also forms the roadmap for the development of the entire India,” said Modi. “Embracing the novelty while retaining the old, Benaras is giving a new direction to the country,” he added. The PM also urged people to take a resolution to educate their daughters and develop their skills. “Along with their families, the people who can afford, should also take the responsibility of skill development of one or two daughters from financially weaker section families,” he said. Appealing to people to save water, he said: “We have to keep our rivers, Gangaji and all water sources clean.” These can be resolutions that should be given momentum in the next two years, added the PM. Zero budget farming should become mass movement: PMPrime Minister Narendra Modi emphasised on the importance of zero budget natural farming, saying it should be made a mass movement.“Our Gaudhan (cows) should not only be a source of milk for farmers. It is our endeavor that cows add to other dimensions of progress. Today, the country is promoting bio-fuel through Gobardhan scheme while organic and zero budget farming are also being encouraged. People should be made aware of benefits of organic and zero budget farming so that more people engage in zero budget farming, which could become a mass movement,” he said while addressing the event marking the 98th anniversary celebrations of Sadguru Sadafaldeo Vihangam Yog Sansthan at Swarved Mahamandir here.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/its-our-responsibility-to-bring-spiritual-gurus-contribution-to-light-pm-101639496724216.html
14-12-2021||Jaipur||CDS chopper crash: Rajasthan govt announces ₹1 crore ex-gratia for Squadron Leader Kuldeep Singh's family||Rajasthan chief minister Ashok Gehlot on Tuesday announced ex-gratia of ₹1 crore for the family of Squadron Leader Kuldeep Singh, who was among those who lost their lives in an Indian Air Force (IAF) helicopter crash near Coonoor in Tamil Nadu’s Niligiris district, on December 8. Also Read | Man arrested in Rajasthan for making indecent remarks against late CDS Rawat“The state government has decided to provide financial assistance of ₹1 crore to the family of Squadron Leader Kuldeep Singh, the brave son of Jhunjhunu, who was martyred in a helicopter crash in Coonoor in Tamil Nadu. We stand with the martyr’s family in these difficult times,” a rough translation of Gehlot's tweet, made in Hindi, read. कुन्नूर (तमिलनाडु) हेलीकॉप्टर दुर्घटना में शहीद हुए झुंझुनूं, राजस्थान के सपूत स्क्वॉड्रन लीडर श्री कुलदीप सिंह के परिजनों को राज्य सरकार ने एक करोड़ रूपये की सहायता राशि प्रदान करने का निर्णय लिया है। इस कठिन घड़ी में प्रदेश सरकार शहीद के परिजनों के साथ है।Squadron Leader Singh was the co-pilot of the Mi-17V5, which crashed last Wednesday in the southern state. The accident also claimed the lives of General Bipin Rawat, the country’s first and sitting Chief of Defence Staff (CDS), as well his spouse Madhulika Rawat, among others.Initially, only three bodies, including CDS Rawat and Madhulika Rawat were identified. Bodies of nine others, including Squadron Leader Kuldeep Singh, were identified in the second round of identification, and sent to their respect native places for the last rites.Also Read | CDS chopper crash: 6 more bodies identified, sent home in special flightsSquadron Leader Singh was cremated with full military honours in Jhunjhunu on Saturday, four days after the tragedy.Group Captain Varun Singh is the lone survivor of the crash, and is undergoing treatment at Bengaluru’s Air Force Command Hospital, where his condition is critical but stable. The force has also constituted a tri-service Court of Inquiry (CoI) to investigate the mishap.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jaipur-news/cds-chopper-crash-rajasthan-govt-announces-rs-1-crore-ex-gratia-for-squadron-leader-kuldeep-singh-s-family-101639495798432.html
14-12-2021||Pune||1,147 new Covid cases reported in two weeks, only 2 needed ventilators: PMC health dept||PUNE Out of the 1,147 new Covid-19 patients reported from the city in the past two weeks, between November 25 and December 8, only two patients needed ventilators, eight needed intensive care unit (ICU) beds and 12 needed oxygen beds, as per the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) health department data.In addition, to the drop in cases, hospitalisation rates have gone down drastically. Of the 15 wards in Pune city, Aundh-Baner has reported the highest number of new cases, 194 and the least were reported from Bhawani peth, about 13 new cases in two weeks.With the new variant, Omicron, the threat looming around the PMC has increased the number of tests, however, the number of new cases is not rising significantly. In the week between November 25 and December 1 the city reported 595 new Covid-19 cases, out of which the highest was reported from Aundh-Baner ward while in the following week as well, the ward reported the highest number of cases, 552 new Covid-19 cases. In the same week, the positivity rate of the city remained about 1.99% and then dropped down to 1.42%.The mortality rate has also gone down as in the week between December 3 and December 9, the city reported only three deaths due to the infections as against 535 positives and 608 discharges which meant that the case fatality rate for the city stood at 0.56%.Dr Ashish Bharti, chief health officer, PMC, said, “We had conducted 29,851 samples tests in the week between 25 November and 1 December out of which we reported 595 new Covid-19 cases which means that positivity rate for the city stood at 1.99%.”“In the following week we further increased the number of tests as per the state government guidelines given the Omicron threat and we conducted over 38,904 tests in which 552 new Covid-19 cases were reported and the positivity rate further fell to 1.42%,” he said.“This indicates that the number of Covid-19 cases in the city has not risen even after Diwali which was being anticipated earlier which is a positive sign however, we are testing as per state government guidelines until the threat is real,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/1147-new-covid-cases-reported-in-two-weeks-only-2-needed-ventilators-pmc-health-dept-101639495824150.html
14-12-2021||Pune||PMC to waive property tax for families of Covid victims||PUNE The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) has decided to waive off the property tax for a year for families of Covid-19 victims. The civic body will also not charge the property tax transfer fee for such family members.Archana Patil, a Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) member, submitted the proposal before the standing committee which was approved on Tuesday.The family members will have to produce the death certificate of the victim to avail the benefit of the scheme. The civic body is in the process to chalk out a plan to implement the scheme.Hemant Rasne, the standing committee chairman, said, “The Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC) has executed such a scheme. We too decided to execute it and give relief to the family members of property owners who lost their life due to Covid-19.”Rasne said, “Family members who lost the member (property owner) due to Covid can take benefit of the scheme and the general tax component in property tax would get waive offed 100 per cent for the financial year 2022-23.”Patil said,” The Covid-19 pandemic has affected many families. Their economy got disturbed due to the loss of a family member/s. Even many kids have become orphans. Neighbouring municipal corporations waived off the general tax component from property tax for such families. Same should be executed in PMC area.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pmc-to-waive-property-tax-for-families-of-covid-victims-101639495524203.html
14-12-2021||Mumbai||NCB seizes ₹13 cr worth drugs in courier||Mumbai Mumbai zonal office of the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) carried out eight operations in the past two days and seized nearly 10kg of multiple drugs and psychotropic substances, estimated to be worth ₹13 crore in the illicit market. An Ivory Coast national has been arrested by the NCB in connection with the seizures. The seized drugs, which mainly include amphetamine and opium, were to be smuggled to different destinations in Europe, America, Gulf countries and Australia through courier parcels. An NCB officer said the consignments were being smuggled to meet the demand for new year celebrations. NCB Mumbai Zonal Director Sameer Wankhede said his team carried out eight operations in last two days and raided multiple premises across Mumbai. “During the operation, approximately 2.296kg amphetamine, 3.906kg of opium, 2.525kg (more than 10,000 pills) Zolpidem were seized. Private places including offices of some courier service providers were raided in Andheri, Dongri and other areas,” said Wankhede. He added that the seized amphetamine has been manufactured in Mumbai, while opium was suspected to be brought from Madhya Pradesh. The cartel, he said, was believed to have sent drugs abroad in the last two months, as they were very active during this time. The agency also suspects that the cartel was highly organised and sophisticated. “They used modus operandi which we haven’t heard of. The racket members were smuggling drugs by cleverly concealing them in cavities of stethoscopes, bicycle helmets, ovens, hose pipes, bangles, hard disks and in packets of grocery items such as eatables, corn flakes, snack mix and other grocery items,” said Wankhede. Initial probe by NCB has revealed that the drugs were being supplied to meet orders received from Australia, New Zealand, Switzerland, Dubai, Maldives and other European countries. “We have arrested one John Bkayoko, an Ivory Coast national after his role was ascertained. He is the common link in at least three cases. He had booked the couriers and was the point person for the foreign cartels in India. Fake identity cards and two passports have also been seized from the foreigner. He would be produced before the court on Wednesday for remand,” Wankhede added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/ncb-seizes-rs-13-cr-worth-drugs-in-courier-101639494623926.html
14-12-2021||Chandigarh||Money laundering: HC rejects ED’s plea for Khaira’s custody||The Punjab and Haryana high court on Tuesday dismissed the enforcement directorate’s (ED) plea seeking custody of Congress leader Sukhpal Singh Khaira in the alleged money laundering case. The plea filed on November 24 was dismissed by the bench of justice Sureshwar Thakur. The detailed order is awaited. The ED in this plea has challenged a Mohali court order, which denied it Khaira’s remand and sent him to judicial custody on November 18. While seeking the Congress leader’s seven-day custody, the ED had claimed that he was an accomplice of drug case convicts and fake passport racketeers. Khaira is also to be questioned about the source of funds that he got from the United States for the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) in 2016, the plea stated. The ED had also claimed that he did not cooperate during the custody. Khaira won the assembly election in 2017 from Bholath on the AAP ticket. He later rebelled and floated a party ahead of the Lok Sabha elections in 2019, before resigning as the MLA and joining the Congress in June this year. The ED arrested him on November 11 under provisions of the Prevention of Money Laundering Act. The central probe agency had also raided his premises in March this year. Proceedings have been initiated in connection with a 2015 FIR. A court had convicted four persons and by the same order, Khaira was summoned as “additional accused”. In December 2017, the Supreme Court stayed his summoning. Khaira has all along maintained that these proceedings are part of “political vendetta”. Khaira, who is in judicial custody, also approached the high court on Monday seeking bail. Acting on the plea, the high court has directed the ED to file a detailed status report within a week.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/money-laundering-hc-rejects-ed-s-plea-for-khaira-s-custody-101639493663987.html
14-12-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab transport staff strike: 8 days on, stalemate continues||The meeting of protesting transport employees with top officials of the Punjab transport department remained inconclusive after the state government reportedly asked them to end their indefinite strike first.Demanding regularisation of their jobs, nearly 8,200 contract and outsourced employees of the state transport undertakings, including Pepsu Road Transport Corporation (PRTC), Punjab Roadways and PUNBUS, are on strike for the past eight days. Commuters have been left stranded with 90% government buses not operating due to the strike. Harkesh Singh Vicky, vice-president of the contractual employees’ union, said the government had refused to talk on their demands, asking them to end their protest first.“We were told by the transport department officials that they have been directed not to hold any negotiations on our demands till the bus service is resumed in the state,” he said, adding that the employees will now hold a state-level protest outside the chief minister’s residence in Kharar.PRTC managing director Parneet Kaur Shergill said the authorities have already cleared their stance that the employees should end their protest and resume services before holding any talks. With its daily revenue dropping to ₹65 lakh, PRTC is facing ₹1.2-crore losses every day.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-transport-staff-strike-8-days-on-stalemate-continues-101639492583897.html
14-12-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra reports 8 new cases of Omicron. None had int'l travel history||Maharashtra on Tuesday reported eight new cases of the Omicron variant of coronavirus of which seven were detected in state capital Mumbai. The health department said the other patient is from Vasai Virar, adding none of the patients had a history of international travel, according to preliminary information.With this, the state now has a total of 28 patients infected with the new strain. Of the 28 cases in Maharashtra, nine have been discharged after testing negative for the virus.8 more patients found infected with #Omicron in the state. Out of these 7 are from Mumbai & 1 patient is from Vasai Virar. Till date, a total of 28 patients infected with Omicron have been reported in the state. Out of these, 9 have been discharged after negative RT-PCR test. pic.twitter.com/AptIVHMk8hEarlier in the day, Delhi health minister Satyendar Jain said four more cases of the Omicron variant were detected in the national capital and all have travel history to other countries."So far, six people have been found Omicron-positive in the capital. One of them has been discharged. All of them had travelled to foreign countries and were transferred to the Lok Nayak Jai Prakash Narayan (LNJP) hospital from the (Indira Gandhi International) airport," Jain said, adding the variant has not spread in the community so far and the situation is under control.Also read | From Dec 20, pre-booking RT-PCR mandatory for arrivals from ‘at-risk’ countriesMeanwhile, Maharashtra’s overall new cases of Covid-19 during the day stood at 684, taking the cumulative active caseload to 6,481. While 686 patients recovered from the disease, 24 people lost their lives to the virus.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-reports-8-new-cases-of-omicron-none-had-int-l-travel-history-101639492033935.html
14-12-2021||Mumbai||Accused who beheaded wife in Matheran tried to cover all possible evidences: Police||The accused who beheaded his wife at a lodge in Matheran was inspired by a popular crime show, police said. The accused, Ramsilochan Pal (25), had made a detailed plan to kill his wife, Poonam (27), and then hide the evidence. “He tried to cover all possible evidence and he was successful in covering 80% of the loopholes. Yet we managed to nab him within 12 hours. He was sure that he had planned a perfect murder and won’t be caught, but was taken by surprise when he found us at his door,” sub-divisional police officer, Vijay Lagare, said.Police added that he had no regrets until he was caught. As per their tradition, the couple had to stay separately after marriage till a ritual was conducted. During this phase, the couple developed friendly relations over the phone and the deceased happened to speak to him about her past, which didn’t go well with him.“The deceased was born and brought up in Mumbai while the accused had spent half of his life in Uttar Pradesh and came here during his engineering days. The accused didn’t like his wife’s frank nature but never showed any dislikes to her. When we spoke to Poonam’s friend, she said that the deceased had always told that her husband was very understanding,” Lagare added.In the last three months, the couple had visited Matheran twice and stayed at two different lodges. In both the lodges, the administration asked for their Aadhar card copies. Hence, this time, the accused booked another lodge which was on the outskirts. He was carrying plastic bags and a knife with him this time. On the intervening night of Saturday and Sunday, the accused throttled his wife to death while she was asleep and then undressed her before dragging her to the bathroom wherein he beheaded her. He then kept her body beneath the cot and wrapped the head in three plastic bags and a cloth bag, and walked out of the lodge, dumping her purse, clothes and head one by one into a valley. On his way from Neral to Thane by train, he threw her phone. After he reached home, his wife’s brother called him on phone to check their whereabouts, to which he said that he was not with her and doesn’t know where she was.“The accused had switched off his phone on Saturday while leaving Panvel and switched it on only after returning to Panvel after the crime. The couple met each other at Neral on Saturday and travelled together to Matheran. While the victim told her parents that she was going out with her husband and left Goregaon, the accused said that he was out for company work and left his Panvel residence. Since the duo met at Neral, we suspect that he would have had some other phone with him, which he would have used to coordinate with his wife. We are in the process of procuring the Call Data Record of his wife to find the same,” Lagare said.Raigad DSP, Atul Zende, said, “The accused has been remanded to police custody for five days. We’ll try to recover the weapon used. We’ll also be taking action against the lodge for not taking the identity cards of the couple.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/accused-who-beheaded-wife-in-matheran-tried-to-cover-all-possible-evidences-police-101639491743812.html
14-12-2021||Other||BJP demands protection for Bengal’s farmers, launches agitation in Singur||Weeks after the Centre repealed the three controversial farm laws following the nationwide protest, the Bengal unit of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) on Tuesday started an agitation at Singur in Hooghly district demanding protection for the state’s farmers.The Trinamool Congress (TMC) government has failed to regulate the retail price of raw materials, such as fertilizers, and procurement of crops from farmers is irregular, BJP leaders alleged.They started a three-day sit-in demonstration at Singur where an agitation led by chief minister Mamata Banerjee against the acquisition of farmland forced the Tata Group to shift its proposed small car project to Sanand in Gujarat during the Left Front rule in 2008.The district police did not allow the BJP peasants front to set up a podium.Though the BJP won the local Hooghly Lok Sabha seat in 2019, it failed to secure the Singur assembly segment in the March-April polls despite fielding the TMC’s the then incumbent lawmaker Rabindranath Bhattacharya who joined the saffron camp. Bhattacharya had won from Singur four times in a row between 2001 and 2016.Top Bengal BJP leaders, including state president Sukanta Majumdar, took part in the agitation that was led by the leader of the opposition in the Bengal assembly, Suvendu Adhikari, who left the TMC in December last year.After coming to power for the first time in 2011, the TMC said that it was open to the idea of setting up industries in Singur but not without securing the interest of farmers. On June 14 that year, the assembly passed the Singur Land Rehabilitation and Development Bill 2011. In his speech, Adhikari, who was earlier a member of the state cabinet, focused on the 997.11 acres of multi-crop farmland that then chief minister Buddhadeb Bhattacharjee acquired for the Tata project. A portion of this land is still lying useless because the cement work done for the project made it unfit for farming. Adhikari accused Banerjee of ruining job opportunities as opposition leader and failing to provide a livelihood to local people as the chief minister.“Where are the promises you made? Today, the farmers are in distress and the local people of Singur have no work. Fertilizers are being sold at a premium by middlemen. Farmers are not getting the right price for their crops. You (the chief minister) said a lot of things against the Centre’s farm laws that were supposed to protect farmers. What have you done for them?” said Adhikari.After the assembly polls, Bengal’s industry minister Partha Chatterjee said his government was ready to welcome the Tata Group to Bengal but clarified that the agricultural land in Singur would not be used for setting up engineering industries.“Why would the Tatas want to return to Singur? The land has already been given back to farmers. We are planning to come up with agro-based industries in Singur as the area’s economy is based on agriculture,” Chatterjee said in July.On Tuesday, however, Chatterjee and other TMC leaders countered the BJP politically, skirting the issue of employment. “At a time when the campaign is on for the December 19 Kolkata Municipal Corporation (KMC) elections, the BJP has gone to Singur because it knows that it cannot win a single seat,” said Chatterjee.“If the BJP enjoyed the confidence of Singur farmers, it would have won the local assembly seat. This is nothing but diversionary tactics to shift focus from the KMC elections,” said transport minister Firhad Hakim.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/bjp-demands-protection-for-bengal-s-farmers-launches-agitation-in-singur-101639491627536.html
14-12-2021||Mumbai||City records sharp dip in temperature, but winter isn’t here yet||Mumbai After just over a week of above-normal temperatures, the city recorded a dip in mercury with Tuesday’s minimum settling at 18.9 degrees Celsius -- the second coldest morning of the season.Unseasonal rain earlier this month sent the temperature dropping to 18.4 degrees Celsius on December 5. This follows a steep drop in temperature in Mumbai since Monday evening, when the maximum temperature dropped to 32.1 degrees Celsius (down from 35 degrees Celsius a day prior).“There has been a sudden drop in temperature, but it will be temporary. Prevailing wind speeds are still easterly to north-easterly, whereas Maharashtra requires strong northerly winds to have a good winter. If you look at places in Vidarbha, Madhya Maharashtra and Marathwada, the minimum temperatures are between three to four degrees above normal still. So we cannot say that winter has arrived. The north Konkan region on Tuesday morning received some lower-level winds from the north, which is why Mumbai, Dahanu and other areas felt cool,” said KS Hosalikar, scientist (surface instrument division) at the India Meteorological Department (IMD) in Pune.Hosalikar added that there will be “a gradual reduction in temperatures after two days, but there are no significant changes in minimum temperature expected immediately” in Mumbai. As per IMD’s seven-day forecast for the city, the maximum temperature is expected to hover around 30 degrees Celsius for the next week, while the minimum temperature could dip to as much as 16 degrees Celsius by December 21.Despite the dip in temperature, however, pollution levels in the city have improved thanks to stronger than usual winds, up to 16kmph in some places. From an air quality index of 225 (poor) on Saturday, when Mumbai also recorded a maximum temperature of 34.2 degrees Celsius, the city’s AQI on Tuesday afternoon was 120 (moderate). “Higher wind speed leads to a higher ventilation index, which means that the wind can disperse a greater amount of particulate matter. Typically, wind speeds slow down in the winter, but the drop in temperature today is actually because we have got some cool winds from the north” said a scientist with the IMD’s regional forecasting centre in Mumbai.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/city-records-sharp-dip-in-temperature-but-winter-isn-t-here-yet-101639490955230.html
14-12-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab transport minister tells depts to rectify all accident black spots||Punjab transport minister Amrinder Singh Raja Warring on Tuesday directed the engineering departments to ensure rectification of all identified accident black spots in the state on priority. Chairing the eleventh meeting of the Punjab State Road Safety Council (PSRSC) at Punjab Bhawan in Chandigarh, Warring also asked the finance department to ensure timely release of requisite funds on demand to departments of public works and local government and Punjab Mandi Board engaged in the process of rectification of black spots falling on state highways. An accidental black spot is a road corridor of about 500-metre long on which either five road accidents, involving fatalities and grievous injuries, or 10 fatalities had been reported in the last three years. “The state government has already completed rectification of 71 black spots falling on its highways, municipal and other link roads while the work is progressing fast on the remaining 56, which will be completed before the end of this month,” he said after the meeting. In other decision, the minister also accorded approval to the proposal for appointment of transactional adviser and a consultant by Punjab Infrastructure Development Board for facilitation in statewide installation of road safety systems. He also asked the PWD to submit a revised proposal for funds allocation for pending rectification works at the earliest. Expressing concern at fog-related road accidents, Warring directed the ADGP (traffic) to ensure strict legal action against offenders overloading their trolleys with dry fodder, wood and iron rods, which pose a grave threat to other commuters. The department was asked to examine the feasibility of attaching reflectors on transport vehicles at the time of passing the vehicle. The minister also directed the department to install traffic signage in both Punjabi and English across the state. Of 797 black spots, 289 rectifiedPSRSC director general R Venkatratnam informed the minister that the transport department study had identified 391 black spots across 12 districts in 2019, out of which 264 were on National Highways passing through the state. Of these 264, 218 have been rectified and work is in progress on the remaining 49. Meanwhile, of the 127 blackspots on state highways and other roads, 71 had been rectified.In the second phase, more than 406 spots have been identified in remaining 11 districts, for which rectification process would begin soon, he said. Principal secretary, transport, K Siva Prasad, ADGP (traffic) SS Srivastava and state transport commissioner Amarbir Singh Sidhu were among those present in the meeting.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-transport-minister-tells-depts-to-rectify-all-accident-black-spots-101639490235133.html
14-12-2021||Mumbai||Gang on bikes rob ₹35L from businessman travelling on WEH||Mumbai Unidentified motorcyclists robbed ₹35 lakh from a businessman travelling in his car on Western Express Highway on Monday evening. According to the Samta Nagar police, the incident occurred at 6 pm on Monday, when the complainant - identified as Sandeep Gujjar, 40, was on his way from his office in Malad to Mira Road in his Fortuner. A few men on motorcycles had been following his vehicle. While two motorcyclists tailed his car, the other two overtook it and blocked it from the front. Gujjar stopped his car to find out what was the matter. When the car halted, one of the motorcyclists got off the two-wheeler and asked him to get off the car. Gujjar did what was told to him. As he got off, the other motorcyclist broke the window glass of the seat next to the driver and flicked the bag containing cash. After the motorcyclist fled in different directions, Gujjar called up the police control room. At that time, he also realised that he was being followed by a car. A team of policemen attached to Samta Nagar police station reached the spot and detained a few suspects travelling in the car that tailed Gujjar’s vehicle. The police are now tracing the four motorcyclists who fled with cash. “We believe that it was an insider job as the robbers were aware of Gujjar’s car, time he left for Mira Road and also about the money he was carrying along,” said Anandrao Hanke, senior police inspector of Samta Nagar police station. The police are also scanning the CCTV recordings of the roads leading to the spot to identify the robbers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/gang-on-bikes-rob-rs-35l-from-businessman-travelling-on-weh-101639488315000.html
14-12-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab polls 2022: Bajwa starts drive to seek suggestions for Congress manifesto||Punjab Congress manifesto committee chairman and Rajya Sabha MP Partap Singh Bajwa on Tuesday started a drive to seek suggestions from people for drafting the party manifesto for the upcoming state polls. Bajwa, who launched a toll-free number and website as part of the “Aawaz Punjab Di” drive at a press conference at the Punjab Congress headquarters in Chandigarh, said the party would focus on agriculture, quality health and education facilities, government employees, armed forces and NRIs. “We will talk to farmer unions and their leaders… bringing the second green revolution, increasing the income of farmers and changing cropping pattern are going to be priority areas,” he said. Congress spokesperson Jaiveer Shergill, social media department chairman Rohan Gupta and Punjab in-charge of social media Gaurav Padhi were also present. Bajwa said the manifesto committee team will be announced in the next two-three days and the draft of the manifesto finalised in 15 days. “We will draft a concise and sharp manifesto and incorporate only those promises that will be 100% doable,” he said. Asked how the panel would incorporate two different governance models being pushed by Punjab Congress president Navjot Sidhu and chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi, he said the manifesto would be based on the Congress model that made Punjab the number one state in the country. “We will talk to both (Sidhu and Channi) in detail and include their suggestions,” he said. Bajwa later also met Sidhu at Congress Bhawan.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-polls-2022-bajwa-starts-drive-to-seek-suggestions-for-congress-manifesto-101639488255031.html
14-12-2021||Other||Uproar in Chhattisgarh assembly over PMAY-G scheme shortfalls||Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), the main opposition in Chhattisgarh Assembly on Tuesday, demanded a probe by house committee into the failure of the state government to provide its share of funds for execution of the Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojna-Gramin (PMAY-G) scheme, leading to the Centre withdrawing the scheme for the current financial year.Under the PMAY-G scheme, financial assistance is provided to the poor people for the construction of houses in rural areas. The Centre provides 60% of the fund while the remaining 40% is provided by the state. The question was raised by BJP law-maker Ajay Chandrakar. In his reply, state’s Panchayat and Rural Development Minister TS Singh Deo said, “The Central government had set a target of allocating houses to 7,81,999 beneficiaries in the state for the financial year 2021-22 but the Centre has withdrawn the target.”He said as per the new target for 2020-21 financial year, 1,57,815 houses have been sanctioned. However, for the current fiscal, the state’s share of ₹800 crore and Centre’s share of ₹1200 crore has not been received, he said.For the last financial year, he said, as of October 30 this year, the state’s share of ₹762.81 crore and Centre’s share of ₹1,144.21 crore were required while the state’s share has not been received, ₹843.81 crore from the Centre’s share was received, he said.Under the scheme, the target of 1,51,073 houses was allotted for the financial year 2019-20, of which 69,097 houses have been constructed while 81,976 were still incomplete.Singh Deo said the state had sought time from the Centre to release its contribution, but it was not entertained and the allotment was withdrawn (for 2021-22).The minister also further claimed the state was due to get around ₹20,000 crore under various funds from the Centre and said if the Centre will not provide funds to the states then how will the development activities take place.Subsequently, Chandrakar said if the state government can take hefty loans for other schemes and had already crossed the fiscal discipline in terms of state debts, then why can’t it take a loan for housing schemes for the poor?“Whether the state government would return all the schemes to the Centre in which it has a contribution of 40 per cent?” Chandrakar said.Parliamentary affairs minister Ravindra Choubey alleged the Centre has been biased with the state and asked why it was not giving due funds to the state.The ruling party MLAs accused the Centre of meting out step-motherly treatment in the allocation of funds to Chhattisgarh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/uproar-in-chhattisgarh-assembly-over-pmay-g-scheme-shortfalls-101639486216229.html
14-12-2021||Other||Bike-borne miscreants rob businessman of ₹35 lakh on Western Express Highway||Unidentified motorcyclists robbed ₹35 lakh from a businessman who was travelling by his car on the Western Express Highway on Monday evening, officials said.According to the Samta Nagar police, the incident occurred at 6 pm on Monday when the complainant, identified as Sandeep Gujjar (40), was on his way from his office in Malad to Mira Road in his Fortuner. It later transpired that a few men on motorcycles had been following his vehicle, while two motorcyclists tailed his car, the other two overtook and blocked his vehicle from the front, officials said. The police are now tracing the four motorcyclists who fled with cash.“We believe that it was an insider’s job as the robbers were aware of Gujjar’s car, the time he left for Mira Road and also about the money he was carrying along,” said Anandrao Hanke, senior police inspector of Samta Nagar police station.Gujjar stopped his car to find out what was the matter. When the car halted, one of the motorcyclists got off the two-wheeler and held the driver’s collar and asked him to get off the car. Gujjar did what was told to him. As he got off, the other motorcyclist broke the window glass of the seat next to the driver and flicked the bag containing cash.After the motorcyclist fled in different directions, Gujjar called up the police control room. At that time he also realised that he was being followed by a car. A team of policemen attached to Samta Nagar police station reached the spot and detained a few suspects travelling in the car that tailed Gujjar’s vehicle.The police are also scanning the CCTV recordings of the roads leading to the spot to identify the robbers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/bikeborne-miscreants-rob-businessman-of-rs-35-lakh-on-western-express-highway-101639484595796.html
14-12-2021||Delhi||Delhi-Kathmandu bus service, suspended due to Covid-19, to resume tomorrow||The Delhi-Kathmandu bus service, suspended for over one and half years due to the Covid-19 pandemic, will resume from December 15, transport officials said on Tuesday.A notification issued on Monday by the Delhi Transport Corporation (DTC) stated that the Delhi-Kathmandu bus will operate from Ambedkar Bus Terminal at 10am on December 15, said DTC deputy chief general manager (PR) RS Minhas.The DTC has tied up with the Skyline India (Motors) Pvt Ltd for operation of the bus."The latest Covid-19 protocols/guidelines issued by the ministry of home affairs (MHA) are to be followed in true spirit in all conditions," the notification read.The bus service, connecting the capital cities of India and Nepal, was launched in November 2014. The operation was shut down on March 23, 2020 amid first wave of the pandemic.It will be "mandatory" for all the passengers to carry certificate of both doses of Covid-19 vaccine and a negative RT-PCR test report within 72 hours of start of the journey, a senior DTC official said.The passengers will not be allowed to board the bus if they fail to produce the documents, he said.The bus service covers a distance of 1,167 Km between Delhi and Kathmandu with stoppages at Firozabad, Faizabad in Uttar Pradesh and Mugling (Nepal).  Earlier, the fare of the journey cost over ₹2,300 which has now been increased to around ₹2,800, a DTC official said.The bus departs from Delhi to Kathmandu on Monday, Wednesday and Friday. The return bus from Kathmandu to Delhi leaves on Tuesday, Thursday and Friday, he said.The bus will also stop at Sonauli (India-Nepal border) for customs checking.  Passengers travelling between Delhi and Kathmandu are not allowed to disembark or embark enroute except at the scheduled halts.The Maitri Bus Sewa was initiated as a symbol of friendship between India and Nepal and since its beginning, the buses have frequently carried pilgrims, tourists, foreign delegates and the general public from both the nations.However, there is no development on the other international bus service of DTC between Delhi and Lahore, officials said.The DTC had suspended the bus service for Lahore in 2019. This decision was taken after Pakistan had suspended the Delhi-Lahore bus service in the wake of India revoking the special status of J&K, following scrapping of Article 370.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhikathmandu-bus-service-suspended-due-to-covid-19-to-resume-tomorrow-101639483157936.html
14-12-2021||Dehradun||‘ ₹1k per month for women above 18 years if AAP gets elected in Uttarakhand’: Kejriwal||Delhi chief minister and Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) national convenor Arvind Kejriwal on Tuesday announced that ₹1000 will be deposited in the accounts of all women above 18 years every month in Uttarakhand if AAP is elected to power in the state. Kejriwal made this announcement during his one-day visit to Kashipur area of US Nagar in Kumaon. US Nagar is the home district of chief minister Pushkar Singh Dhami. Kejriwal said, “By evening, all will start cursing him on TV channels where I will get the money for this. I will tell you where the money will come from. Uttarakhand budget is around ₹55000 crore. Isn’t corruption there in the state? In any work, how much corruption is there? Some say there is 60%, 80% corruption in the state. Let us say there is 20% corruption, so, 20% of 55,000 crores is around ₹11000 crore, which goes into pockets of politicians and then to Swiss banks,” he said Kejriwal said the announcement will have a financial implication of ₹3000 crore. “I will stop the money going to Swiss banks. So, the money going to Swiss banks will go into the pockets of women here. Tell this to all,” he said. This is Kejriwal’s fifth visit to the hill state this year. On November 21, during his one-day visit to Haridwar, Kejriwal announced that if AAP is elected to power in Uttarakhand, it will provide free pilgrimage service to people in the state as is provided by the AAP government in Delhi. During his visit to Nainital district in September, Kejriwal announced that if AAP is elected to power in the state, it will give employment in every household of the state (Har Ghar Rozgar) and ₹5000 stipend to unemployed youths till they don’t get jobs. He had also announced that AAP will provide 1 lakh government jobs within six months of coming to power in the state. On August 17, when Kejriwal visited the state, he announced Colonel Ajay Kothiyal (Retd) as the chief ministerial face of the party for the 2002 assembly polls. Kejriwal had also announced that AAP will make Uttarakhand the spiritual capital for the Hindus across the world. On July 11, when Kejriwal visited the state, he announced 300 units of free electricity to the people in the state if AAP assumes power.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/dehradun-news/rs-1k-per-month-for-women-above-18-years-if-aap-gets-elected-in-uttarakhand-kejriwal-101639481474662.html
14-12-2021||Mumbai||Cyber police arrest man from Goa for duping doctor of ₹21 lakh||West region cyber police station in Mumbai has arrested a 35-year-old man from Goa for allegedly duping a city-based 31-year-old doctor to the tune of ₹21 lakh by using a fake identity on a popular matrimonial site, officials said. Police suspect that he might have targeted other women in a similar fashion as the bio-data of five other women were found in his possession. The arrested accused, Zorin Anil Solanki aka Kshitij Desai, is a Borivli resident. Police officials said the class 12 drop-out created a profile on a popular matrimonial site, posing as a stock trader. Solanki would upload his photographs on the sites and lure women to fall for his handsome looks, they added. “He got connected to the Andheri-based doctor on the matrimonial site a few months back. He emotionally trapped her and would always show that he cared a lot about her. Promising to marry her, he, under the pretext of investing money in the share market for their future, collected ₹21 lakh from her over a period of time,” said DCP (cyber) Dr Rashmi Karandikar. The complainant woman recently read news articles about the arrest of Pune-based conman Yuvraj Bhosale, who has duped many women registered on matrimonial sites and suspected that she might have also been a victim of such fraud. At her request, the cyber police carried out a preliminary enquiry and her suspicion turned out to be true. Cyber police found out that the person she was interacting with for months was indeed a cheat after which the medical profession lodged a formal police complaint, leading to the registration of an FIR against Solanki, on December 8. “The very next day we arrested Solanki from Goa where he was splurging the victim’s money on gambling in casinos along with his friends,” said Karandikar. The doctor saved money to gift a car to her elderly father but the accused defrauded her of all her savings, the DCP added. “Solanki would play his game very smartly and give bank account details of his friends to receive the fraud money to avoid any police action. His background check revealed that he has two criminal cases registered against him in the past – one at VP Road police station for cheating and an assault case. It was found that he has spent time in jail as well,” said assistant police inspector Shubhangi Holkar. “Solanki’s matrimonial account was deleted by the service provider as he failed to comply with the KYC norms. But, by then he had already managed to get the doctor’s phone number by using the chatting feature on the matrimonial site. The service providers must introduce more security features to prevent misuse of their platforms from such cheats who just come on their sites to look for contacts of gullible women. Bio-data of five more women have been found in his possession,” said DCP Karandikar. “Solanki has been booked under relevant sections of the Indian Penal Code and Information Technology Act for cheating and impersonation. A city court has remanded him to police custody till December 15,” said Holkar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/cyber-police-arrest-man-from-goa-for-duping-doctor-of-rs-21-lakh-101639479195101.html
14-12-2021||Other||Gurugram: Manesar civic body launches helplines for damaged streetlights||The Municipal Corporation of Manesar (MCM) has launched two helpline numbers on which residents can register complaints of non-functioning or damaged streetlights and get them fixed within 48 hours, said officials on Monday. In this initiative, the complainant needs to click a picture of a non-functioning or damaged streetlight and send it on any of the numbers — 9289401408 or 9289386409 — through WhatsApp, along with a message containing the location of the streetlight and his/her name and address. The officials said that the two helplines will be operational 24x7 on WhatsApp, while calls regarding queries and other related issues would be addressed on these numbers by MCM staff between 9am and 5pm on all working days.“We are exploring various modes through which we can connect with residents, not only to resolve their issues but also help us determine the extent of civic problems. We are planning to introduce more such helplines for other matters,” said a senior MCM official privy to the matter.The official quoted above further said that the initiative was launched on Saturday and the civic body has received around 10 complaints so far. “All officials concerned have been notified about the helpline numbers and directed to make residents aware of it. We have also alerted residents through our official social media handles. Officials have been directed to fix all complaints of streetlights within a 48-hour window, otherwise they will have to submit in writing the reasons behind the delay,” said Parveen Dalal, executive engineer (electrical), MCM.Prior to this, the only other time the MCM launched a helpline number for residents was in April for the lifting of biomedical waste during the second Covid-19 wave.Residents have welcomed the civic body’s decision to launch helpline numbers. “Apart from the social media and making a visit to the MCM office, there are limited ways to take up civic-related matters with officials. Such helpline numbers would be extremely convenient for residents,” said Ajit Yadav, a resident of Sector 81.
14-12-2021||Gurugram||Gurugram: 20 ponds to be developed in Aravallis by March||To ensure availability of water for animals during the summer months, the wildlife department will dig at least 20 ponds in the Aravallis by March, said officials on Monday. These ponds will be developed in Faridabad, Gurugram, Nuh, Rewari, and Mahendragarh districts, the officials said, adding that these ponds were being developed in the winter months so that they are ready before summer. MS Malik, chief conservator of forests (wildlife),Gurugram circle, said, “We have sent a proposal to the state wildlife department for developing ponds in the Aravallis so that drinking water is available to animals. We have proposed to develop 20 ponds and we will also work on rejuvenating the existing ponds in the forests.” Officials said a final approval is awaited but they are aiming to complete the work by February-March next year. Officials from the Gurugram wildlife department said water bodies will be developed in the shape of a pan and the sides of the pond will not be concreted so that animals may approach or leave the watering hole easily. These ponds will be replenished using water tankers, officials said. Even during the winter months, the Aravallis tend to dry up faster because of less rainfall. The sandy soil also makes it difficult to hold water. Wildlife experts said developing ponds will help animals in the region, but the location of these ponds is crucial. Sunil Harsana, a Faridabad-based ecologist, said, “In the Aravallis, there are many old mining pits where water is available both during the winter and summer months and the movement of animals shifts according to the availability of water. But during summers, there are places where water is not available but animal movement is still noticed there. Smaller animals such as rabbits or herbivores are found in certain patches, due to which carnivores also follow them but these areas might be out of their range of water sources. So, ponds must be developed after studying the movement patterns of animals so that the distribution is equal.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/gurugram-20-ponds-to-be-developed-in-aravallis-by-march-101639475594478.html
14-12-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab elections: Ex-SAD MLA, ex-IAS officer among 19 join BJP||Ludhiana: Former IAS officer SR Ladhar, who had set up the Kiri Kisan Sher-e-Punjab, merged his political outfit with the BJP in the presence of the party’s election in-charge Gajendra Singh Shekhawat in Ludhiana on Tuesday.Also read: MEA warning letter over Khalistan is fake, say officialsOther prominent party leaders, including Ladhar’s son Gautam Girish Ladhar, Dr Daljit Singh Sodhi, Amit Modgil, and Gurdial Singh Sodhi, also joined the party in the presence of state BJP president Ashwani Sharma and Punjab affairs in-charge Dushyant Kumar Gautam. Former Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) MLA Mohan Lal Banga, who had joined the Bahujan Samaj Party and then gone on to join the Congress in 2019, also joined the BJP on Tuesday. Jasvir Singh, a member of the Pradesh Congress Workers Social Welfare and the party’s SC cell secretary, besides Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee member Harpal Singh Jalla joined the BJP. Besides, singers Butta Mohammad, Hakam Bhakriwala and Malkit Singh Manga and social activists Rupinder Singh Sidhu from Bathinda were among those who joined the party. Former IPS officer Ashok Bath, organic farmer Paramjit Singh Khalsa and local Akali local leaders JR Chaichi, Sham Lal Masih, Subash Bath and Mahant Dangu Masih besides Ranjit Singh Khojewal, Amardeep Gujjarwal and Captain Swarn Singh also joined the BJP.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-elections-ex-sad-mla-ex-ias-officer-among-19-join-bjp-101639475294124.html
14-12-2021||Other||Gurugram: Tender allocation for 800m stretch of Pataudi Road approved||The Municipal Corporation of Gurugram (MCG), in its finance and contract committee meeting held on Monday, approved the allocation of a tender to reconstruct an 800-metre stretch of the Pataudi Road that connects to the Dwarka Expressway near Sector 88. The stretch holds importance as it also provides connectivity to the Kundli-Manesar-Palwal (KMP) Expressway, besides linking newer sectors 36, 88, and 89, among others, with the Dwarka Expressway. Overall, 12 projects were given administrative approval and the tender allotment of 11 other development projects was approved during the meeting held at the Sector 34 office of the civic body. The 800-metre portion of the Pataudi Road, from near the Oriental Bank of Commerce branch in Sector 88 till Saint Paul’s School adjoining the Dwarka Expressway, will be reconstructed.Due to plying of heavy commercial vehicles, the stretch has developed potholes over time and the MCG decided to reconstruct it with materials such as dense-bituminous macadam, medium-curing asphalt cement, and ready-mix concrete used in the construction of national highways so that it can sustain the weight of heavy vehicles, said the officials. “We are aiming to start construction as soon as the ongoing ban across the NCR is lifted. It will take us around three weeks to complete the work, provided it proceeds uninterrupted,” said a senior MCG official privy to the matter.A ₹1.45-crore estimate for the project was approved during the finance and contract committee meeting in October. On Monday, the tender allotment for the project was approved at ₹1.12 crore, the officials said. The 12 projects that got administrative approval in the Monday’s meeting included construction of streets in Saraswati Enclave at a cost of ₹2.35 crore, construction of road and footpath from Khatushyam temple to Wazirabad dam at ₹1.53 crore, and construction of 18-metre wide roads in Sector 46 for ₹2.46 crore. Tender allotment of 10 other development projects approved in the meeting included constructing a ₹2.20-crore stormwater drain alongside the railway track in the ward 3 area, ₹2.14 crore for construction of internal roads in Sector 38, and ₹2.10 crore for construction of 10-metre, 12-metre, and 15-metre roads in Sector 43.“Administrative approval for 12 development works and tender allotment of 11 other projects were approved in the meeting after adequate deliberation. With these projects, the citizens of Gurugram will get better facilities. Directions were also issued in the meeting to MCG officials to pay special attention to the quality of development works and ensure that the works are completed within the stipulated time period,” said mayor Madhu Azad who chaired the meeting.
14-12-2021||Other||Faridabad: Govt flats allotted to Khori residents in shambles||The residents of Faridabad’s Khori village, which has been demolished over the past few months as it encroached on the protected Aravalli land, said on Monday that the government flats allotted to them under a rehabilitation plan are in a dilapidated condition and lack basic amenities. The colony that came up illegally on 150 acres of Aravalli forest land was razed by the Municipal Corporation of Faridabad (MCF) on the order of the Supreme Court passed in June this year. According to a drone survey of the civic body, at least 6,600 houses had come up illegally in Khori. The residents were later offered flats made for the economically weaker section (EWS) at Dabua Colony and Bapu Colony in Faridabad.Most of these flats, constructed for slum dwellers, have been lying unused for over 10 years, officials from the MCF said, adding there are 1,776 flats in Dabua Colony and 779 in Bapu Colony.An HT team visited the two colonies on Monday and found that doors and window grilles were missing in most of the flats. Besides, there is no power, water and sewage connections in the colonies. Heaps of garbage were found strewn all around the area.Residents said that about 200 families have been living in the two colonies legally for several years now, but most of the other flats lack facilities. Some people have even moved into unoccupied flats and live without any civic amenities, they said.Some people who worked as security guards when the colonies were being developed 15 years ago said that thieves had stolen the water pipes, toilet fittings, window panes, and grilles. Cases have been registered but no arrests have been made so far, they said. Shovran Singh (62), who worked as a security guard, said he has been illegally staying now as the area is not guarded and anyone can occupy a flat and live with the present condition. “Three people have been murdered in the area in the past seven years. The area is not safe for families to live in. We don’t leave children to play in other vacant blocks. Some groups come here for meetings in the vacant flats and leave late at night,” he said.Ramesh Kumar, who moved into a flat because it was unoccupied, said that they have to pay for water as there is no connection yet. “We can’t even question or complain about it to anyone, as they will throw us out. I live with my family and drive an auto-rickshaw to make ends meet. It’s a free shelter for us,” he said. There are residents like Kumar who said that they don’t come out of their flats after 7pm. The children are not even allowed to play outside the clusters, they said. Some children who were playing in a ground said that they are allowed to play only till 2pm. “My parents fear that someone will kidnap me from here as several such incidents have been reported,” said a 13-year-old boy who lives with his parents in Dabua Colony for the past over 10 years. Balraj Sharma, who works as a driver and has occupied a flat illegally, said that the area has no facility but is for free due to which he along with his family lives here. “Except 202 families, the rest are living here illegally. There is no light so we cook in the afternoon for both times and sleep by 7pm. We often hear tiffs and scuffles but we don’t go out. People who are in dire need of shelter can manage to stay here as we did with help of a few other families,” he said. According to the MCF officials, they counted 6,664 roofs when they did an aerial survey before the demolition of Khori village. “Our e-portal has 5,011 applications for the rehabilitation scheme, and we have provisionally accepted 1,178,” said an officer.Yashpal Yadav, municipal commissioner, Faridabad, said as per the plan, a family is considered eligible for allotment of flat if the income of the family does not exceed ₹3 lakh annually, and the name of the head of the family should be on the voters’ list of the Badkhal assembly constituency of Haryana as of January 1, 2021. The officials said that any slum dweller from Khori village under the prescribed criteria will be given a flat worth ₹3,77,300. Initially, ₹17,000 has to be deposited for the flat allotment and after that an amount of ₹2,500 will have to be given in monthly instalments for 15 years, they said. Dwellers from Khori who were evicted said they are presently staying on rent in other areas and paying ₹4,000 a month. Some people who visited Dabua Colony on Monday were carrying their allotment letters and flat numbers but were shocked to find the dilapidated condition of their flats. “The MCF is asking to pay ₹17,000 as down payment but we are left with no money as we could not work for months due to the demolition drive. If we don’t pay, we will not get the flat. But even if we pay, we cannot stay here and it will take at least a year to make this place liveable,” said Manjur Alam, a tailor. Hadish Ansari, a resident of Khori for 15 years, said that he has taken a loan from relatives and ready to pay but how will he shift here. “I will have to start paying instalments the day I take possession, but at the same time will have to pay rent. The bathroom has been dug up by thieves. At least ₹20,000 is required to repair each flat. We are poor people and can’t spend such an amount on repairing works,” he said. The municipal commissioner said that they have offered flats to the Khori slum dwellers but they are not ready to take possession. “The flats need repair and they will get completed in April 2022 as construction work is banned presently. We have found that there are nearly 900 families who have legal documents and are eligible to take possession,” he said. Yadav further said that they have nearly 2,200 flats in their possession. “Though we have started cleaning the area, a lot more needs to be done,” he said. Ishita Chatterjee, a PhD scholar from faculty of architecture, building and planning at the University of Melbourne, who has been studying Khori village, said, “It has been five months since the demolition, but the housing units under the rehabilitation scheme are in a deplorable condition. They are not fit for any human to reside,” she said. Vimal Bhai, a social activist who has been helping Khori residents to complete their documentation and process of allotment, said, “The government first made the people of Khori poor by breaking homes that they built on land bought by their life earnings and then asked them to buy these unhabitable flats in the name of rehabilitation,” he said. 
14-12-2021||Patna||Former bureaucrat wins mukhiya seat in Bihar following wife’s footsteps||Arun Kumar, a former commissioner at the Chief Vigilance Commission (CVC), is the new mukhiya of the Raj Singhwahini panchayat in Sonbarsa block in Bihar’s Sitamarhi district following a comfortable victory in the panchayat elections. He succeeds his wife Ritu Jaiswal, a mukhiya and winner of Champions of Change and Deen Dayal Upadhyay Panchayat Sashaktikaran Puraskar (DDUPSP) 2019, who narrowly lost the assembly elections last time.In a state known for the stereotype of power-wielding men fielding women as proxies in politics, the former officer has truly followed into his wife’s footsteps in the political arena. “The fact that I got almost two-third votes cast, while the rest of the nine candidates together polled just one-third, shows the trust my wife was able to build with her work in the panchayat. Now, I will try to build on that,” he said, adding he would focus on increasing farmers’ income, while his wife would continue to work for women’s empowerment.Kumar said that farmers were the worst sufferers as the cost of agriculture was consistently going up. “They don’t get the minimum support price (MSP) and have to sell their produce at throwaway prices. On the other hand, they have to purchase fertilizers from the black market at exorbitant price, as even DAP is in very short supply and to make matters worse, there is smuggling across the border,” said the officer, who still runs his Magnum online classes for IAS (Indian Administrative Service) aspirants.Also Read: Over ₹37,134cr GST compensation due to states for 2020-21His wife, who won her debut panchayat election last time from a non-reserved seat, is elated that her husband will now take care of the panchayat she nurtured in the last five years. “Earlier, he helped me to work for the betterment of the panchayat. Now, I will help him,” she said, adding the 2021 panchayat polls has brought many new enterprising men and women into rural governance, which would help the state achieve faster and inclusive growth.Son beats fatherIn Madhopur panchayat of Gopalganj, which polled in the 10th phase, Santosh Kumar defeated his father Vijay Kumar Prasad for the post of mukhiya. There were six candidates in the fray. “Earlier, I helped my father in whatever development work has been carried out in Madhopur. Now, I will do it myself. I am happy that the people have chosen me this time,” Santosh Kumar said.Many sitting mukhiyas bite the dustThere have been several upsets in the Bihar panchayat polls with contesting youth and women winning widespread support. Women have been winning even from the 50% seats that are not reserved for them. Similarly, youth participation and victories have risen too. The state election commission (SEC) is now planning a survey to study the new trends in the Panchayat elections, said an official of the SEC.
14-12-2021||Bangalore||Karnataka MLC polls: BJP, Cong neck and neck, Suraj Revanna set to win||Suraj Revanna from the Janata Dal (Secular) or JD(S), who is the eighth member of former PM HD Deve Gowda’s family to enter electoral politics, was all set to be elected to the Upper House of the Karnataka legislature, according to trends emerging from the counting of votes for the biennial election to the council’s 25 seats from 20 local authorities’ constituencies on Tuesday.Suraj is the elder son of Gowda’s son and former minister, HD Revanna. Suraj’s younger brother is an MP from Hassan, and his mother was a former zila panchayat member who is likely to seek re-election in the local body polls early next year.Gowda’s other son, HD Kumaraswamy, was the former chief minister of Karnataka and is the JD(S) legislator from Channapatana. Kumaraswamy’s wife is the legislator from Ramanagara and their actor son, Nikhil, unsuccessfully contested the 2019 Lok Sabha elections from Mandya, a stronghold of the regional party.The MLC polls were conducted on December 10 for 25 seats in the 75-member Upper House of the state legislature with the terms of 14 Congress, seven Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and four JD(S) MLCs set to end on January 5. All three major parties are looking to win big in the MLC polls which is key to controlling the Upper house or the Vidhana Parishad.According to preliminary reports, the BJP and the Congress are leading in 11 seats each while the JD(S) is expected to win in Hassan if the current trends hold till the end of counting, underway in about 20 centres across the state, A clear picture is likely to emerge by post noon or evening, poll officials said.The Basavaraj Bommai-led BJP government is hoping to overcome the loss suffered in the October 30 bypolls in Hanagal. The defeat at the hands of the Congress dealt a big blow to Bommai who is from the adjoining Shiggaon constituency in Haveri district, that fuelled speculation of a growing divide within the saffron outfit.Also Read: Over ₹37,134cr GST compensation due to states for 2020-21A big win in the MLC polls will help Bommai secure control of the upper house and cement his position as the head of the government. His ascent to the top post in the state was hotly contested by members of his own party when a replacement for former chief minister BS Yediyurappa was being searched for earlier this year.The results would also help the Congress asses their chances in upcoming polls like zilla and taluka panchayat, Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) polls and the 2023 assembly elections.The JD(S) has found it hard to bounce back after it won only one out of the 28 seats in the 2019 Lok Sabha elections. The regional outfit has allowed its local leaders to ally with any party they think would “benefit the JD(S)”--tacitly extending support to the BJP as both parties consider the Congress as their “common enemy”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/suraj-revanna-set-to-win-seat-bjp-cong-neck-and-neck-in-karnataka-mlc-polls-101639470794196.html
14-12-2021||Mumbai||Excise dept issues notice to Sameer Wankhede over bar licence||The Thane unit of the central excise department has issued a notice to Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) Mumbai zonal director Sameer Wankhede in connection with a bar licence issued to him in 1997. Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) leader and Maharashtra minister Nawab Malik had earlier claimed that Wankhede was given the licence despite being ineligible for it. The Thane excise unit’s superintender Nilesh Sangde said the notice was issued on December 10 following an inquiry into Malik’s allegations claiming that Wankhede was 17 years old when he received the licence for the bar in Hotel Sadguru in Navi Mumbai. “It has come to light that Wankhede did not provide any proof of his age at the time of applying for the licence. We have asked him to respond to the notice in writing by or before December 17. After that, we will schedule a hearing before the Thane collector and further course of action will be depend on the outcome of the hearing,” Sangde said. He added that inquiries are also being conducting internally to find out how the license was issued when no proof of age was furnished by Wankhede. Wankhede’s father Dnyandev maintains that the application for the licence was submitted based on the assumption that the age eligibility was 18 years. Also Read: Sameer Wankhede to appear before caste certificate scrutiny committee today“Sameer was 17 years and 10 months old at the time, and the license is granted by a committee after deliberations. We had assumed that this process would take a couple of months during which time Sameer would turn 18. How is it our fault if the committee issued the license immediately?” the senior Wankhede asked. Excise officials, however, maintained that the permissible age had always been 21 years. Dnyandev added, “If the excise department wants to cancel my licence, they should return the lakhs of rupees I have paid as licence fees every year. I am prepared to go to court for this.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/excise-dept-issues-notice-to-sameer-wankhede-over-bar-license-101639468933738.html
14-12-2021||Delhi||Delhi reports 4 more cases of Omicron, tally rises to 6||Delhi has reported 4 new cases of the Omicron variant of the coronavirus, taking the number of such infections to 6 in the national capital, health minister Satyendar Jain said on Tuesday."So far, six people have been found Omicron positive in the Capital. One of them has been discharged. All of them had travelled to foreign countries and were transferred to the Lok Nayak Jai Prakash Narayan (LNJP) Hospital from the (Indira Gandhi International) airport," Jain was quoted as saying by news agency PTI.The latest cases of the Omicron variant has taken the country’s tally to 45.Delhi health minister also said the variant has not spread in the community so far, adding the situation is still "under control."So far, 74 travellers have been sent from the airport to the LNJP Hospital, where a special ward has been set up for isolating and treating suspected cases of Omicron, Jain said. Out of this, 36 have been discharged and 38 are admitted to the hospital.The national capital reported its first case of Omicron on December 5 after a 37-year-old was found positive with the variant with mild symptoms. He was discharged from the LNJP Hospital after recovering from the viral infection.A Ranchi resident, the man travelled from Tanzania to Doha and from there, to Delhi on a Qatar Airways flight on December 2. He stayed in Johannesburg in South Africa for a week.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-reports-4-more-cases-of-omicron-tally-rises-to-6-101639464749811.html
14-12-2021||Patna||Tiger attack leaves two villagers injured in Valmiki reserve||A tiger attacked and wounded two people in a village in the Valmiki Tiger Reserve (VTR) area of Bihar’s West Champaran district on Monday, according to a forest official and a local villager. Ramesh Prasad Shrivastav, range officer in VTR’s Harnatand, confirmed the attack, saying the victims, identified as Paras Soni (60) and Paras Guru (50), were undergoing treatment at a primary health centre in Harnatand. Both are residents of the Dewariya Taruwanwa panchayat in West Champaran district. “We are investigating the circumstances under which the men came under attack,” the range officer said. It is learnt that Soni and Guru were attacked by the tiger at around 9.30am when they were working on their farmland in Taruwanwa village, which is located on the fringes of a forest in the VTR. Narrating the incident, a local villager said, “A tiger emerged from a sugarcane field and attacked Soni. On hearing his distress call, Guru rushed to his rescue, and he too was injured. As other villagers from nearby raised alarm, the animal retreated to the forest.”Dr. Rajendra Kaji, a doctor at the primary heath centre in Harnatand, said both men were injured but out of danger.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/tiger-attack-leaves-two-villagers-injured-in-valmiki-reserve-101639453093042.html
14-12-2021||Delhi||Delhi’s air quality projected to stay ‘very poor’ for next two days||New Delhi is likely to see a shallow foggy sky on Tuesday as per the India Meteorological Department (IMD) forecast. The minimum temperature is likely to be at 6 degrees Celsius and the maximum is predicted to reach 23 degrees Celsius, while the Capital’s air quality was expected to be ‘very poor’ over the next two days. The minimum temperature on Monday was 7 degrees Celsius, and the maximum was 22 degrees Celsius. Delhi’s air quality was in the “very poor” category on Tuesday morning. Data from Central Pollution Control Board showed that the hourly air quality index (AQI) at 7 am stood at 346. On Monday, the average 24-hour Air Quality Index or AQI was 307, which is in the lower-end of the “very poor” category. An AQI between zero and 50 is considered “good”, 51 and 100 “satisfactory”, 101 and 200 “moderate”, 201 and 300 “poor”, 301 and 400 “very poor”, and 401 and 500 “severe”. Also Read: Pollution in Delhi creeps back to ‘very poor’, temperature stays lowOn Tuesday, the Union ministry of earth science’s air quality monitoring centre, System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting and Research (Safar) said, “The AQI today indicates “very poor” air quality. For the next two days, winds are likely to be low to moderate. Partially cloudy conditions and moderate mixing layer height (~ 1.0 - 1.5 km) are likely to keep air quality within the lower end of “very poor”. From 16th onwards, air quality is likely to improve due to relatively high wind speeds but still remain within the“poor” or the lower end of the “very poor” category”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-air-quality-projected-to-stay-very-poor-for-next-2-days-101639451413197.html
14-12-2021||Kolkata||BJP to launch 3-day sit-in in Singur today to press for 7-point-demand charter for farmers||The Bharatiya Janata Party will on Tuesday launch a three-day sit-in at West Bengal's Singur to corner the Mamata Banerjee government over the plight of farmers in the state.The sit-in has been called to press for a seven-point charter of demands for farmers, including seeking a minimum support price (MSP) for their produce and reduction of value added tax (VAT) on fuel.Other demands include abolition of middle-men and fair price for farmers’ produce, besides lowering of power tariff, news agency cited BJP spokesperson Samik Bhattacharya as saying on Sunday.The charter of demands also mentions a package for farmers who suffered heavy losses in unseasonal rains and making ‘kisan mandis’ functional in different blocks.Also read | Tikait, other farm leaders to attend agitation’s ‘Sampan Samaroh’ at Jind, Hisar todaySamik Bhattacharya said Singur, located in West Bengal’s Hooghly district, has been chosen as the site of protest as it was where Mamata Banerjee launched an anti-land acquisition movement 14 years ago, considered one of her most prominent political battles.“But, now she has forgotten about the farmers after coming to power, and there has been no industrial growth in the state during her tenure,” he claimed.On Saturday, Leader of Opposition Suvendu Adhikari met Governor Jagdeep Dhankhar along with several members of the Kisan Morcha and handed over the list of demands to him.Meanwhile, farmers' agitation against the three central farm laws ended last week, after the Centre accepted all their demands, including the repeal of the laws and a legal guarantee on MSP.On November 29, Parliament passed the Farm Laws Repeal Bill on the first day of the Winter Session. President Ram Nath Kovind also gave his assent to the bill that completed the process of repealing the three farm laws.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/bjp-to-launch-3-day-sit-in-in-singur-today-to-press-for-7-point-demand-charter-for-farmers-101639448249815.html
14-12-2021||Mumbai||NCB's Sameer Wankhede to appear before caste certificate scrutiny committee today in religion-caste controversy case||Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) Mumbai zonal director Sameer Wankhede is on Tuesday set to appear before the Mumbai district caste certificate scrutiny committee, which is investigating the allegations regarding the officer's caste certificate.The summons was issued by the commission late last month based on a complaint lodged by Ashok Kamble, the president of the Maharashtra unit of the Bhim Army,. Kamble alleged Wankhede provided false information about himself to obtain a ‘Mahar’ caste certificate for a government job.In addition to Kamble, Dalit activist Manoj Sansare has also joined in as another complainant in the case.According to allegations raised by both of them, Wankhede is Muslim by birth and got married in accordance with Sharia and the officer allegedly obtained a bogus certificate to further his professional gains.The Mumbai district caste certificate scrutiny committee took cognizance of the complaints and held its first hearing on November 30.Advocate Nitin Satpute, representing both the complainants, presented two documents before the committee—a photocopy of Sameer Wankhede's birth certificate and another photocopy of his caste certificate issued by the Greater Mumbai executive magistrate.Based on these documents, the committee then decided to initiate a probe into the caste certificate issue and summoned Wankhede for its next hearing at 3pm on December 14.The religion-caste controversy against Sameer Wankhede, the man behind the arrest of Shah Rukh Khan's son Aryan Khan in a high-profile drugs-on-cruise case in October, was first raised by Maharashtra minister Nawab Malik, whose son-in-law Sameer Khan was also arrested by a team led by the NCB officer.Malik pointed Wankhede married Shabana Quraishi in 2006 according to Islamic rituals, and alleged that despite being a Muslim, the NCB zonal director “forged” a Scheduled Caste certificate to get a government job in the SC quota.Though Wankhede's first wife did not comment on the issue, his former father-in-law Dr Zaheed Quraishi said he knew the NCB officer's family as Muslims. He also confirmed that Sameer Wankhede practised Islam at the time when he married Shabana. The government job came a year after the Wankhede's first marriage, his former father-in-law said.It is, however, to be noted that the National Commission for Scheduled Castes (NCSC) had earlier found that Sameer Wankhede's caste certificates were original and that there were no mal-intentions involved.Sameer Wankhede's father Dnyandev Wankhede also approached the Bombay high court asking it to pass an order prohibiting Nawab Malik from tweeting about the controversy at hand.In a major win for the Wankhede family, the minister later tendered an “unconditional apology” before the court for remarks in violation of a previous undertaking of his promising not to make any comments on Sameer Wankhede's past conduct in the discharge of official duty.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/ncbs-sameer-wankhede-to-appear-before-caste-certificate-scrutiny-committee-today-in-religion-caste-controversy-case-101639443841623.html
14-12-2021||Chandigarh||Kashmir records sub-zero temperatures, Srinagar shivers at -3.5 °C||All the weather stations in Kashmir witnessed sub-zero temperatures during the previous night with Srinagar recording -3.5 °C, the weather office said on Monday.Nights continued to record sub-zero temperatures in Kashmir for the ninth day on Monday with the mercury plunging to - 5.3 °C in the mountain resort of Pahalgam in south Kashmir.The days remain dry as the sun makes appearances while occasionally mornings remain foggy.In north Kashmir, the ski resort of Gulmarg recorded a night temperature of -5 °C.The summer capital Srinagar recorded -3.5 °C as against -3 °C a night earlier.It was -4.4 °C in Konibal, - 4.2 °C in Kupwara, and -2.8 °C in Qazigund.In the union territory of Ladakh, Drass recorded bone-chilling – 16.2 °C while it was – 10.9 °C in Leh during the night.There is a weather office’s prediction of a coming western disturbance from the night of December 14 which may bring snow and rains.Director, meteorological department of J&K and Ladakh, Sonam Lotus has said the dry weather spell will break by the night of December 14.“As of now, light snow and rain in the plains of J&K are most likely during the nights of December 14 and 15,” he said on Saturday.“Light to moderate snow is also likely at places like Sonmarg-Drass axis, Panikhar-Padum and on other higher reaches of Kargil and Leh dist during the above period,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/kashmir-records-sub-zero-temperatures-srinagar-shivers-at-3-5-c-101639431071077.html
14-12-2021||Chandigarh||Leh, Kargil observe strike over statehood demand||Demanding separate statehood, a strike was observed in Leh and Kargil districts of the Ladakh region on Monday.The call for today’s strike was given by Leh Apex Body and Kargil Democratic Alliance - an amalgam of several trades, religious and political groups fighting for the rights of the two regions of the Ladakh.All the shops and business establishments remained shut and the transport was off the roads in both regions of Ladakh. A majority of people remained confined to their homes. However, no untoward incident was reported from Kargil or Leh regions.On August 5, 2019, when Article 370 was revoked by the Centre, erstwhile J&K was divided into two union territories J&K and Ladakh. However, after the formation of separate UT, people in both the regions of Leh and Kargil in Ladakh have been demanding more rights and powers for the people.Political activist Sajjad Husaain Kargili posted pictures of a complete shutdown in the Kargil region. “People of Ladakh are today observing complete bandh over the statehood for Ladakh, constitutional safeguards, early recruitment and separate Lok Sabha and Rajya Sabha seats for both Leh and Kargil,” tweeted Kargili.The apex groups are demanding separate statehood and separate Lok Sabha and Rajya Sabha seats for Ladakh besides the constitutional safeguards under Sixth Schedule or similar-like status and filling 10,000 to 12,000 vacancies in the government departments. Recently, Union home secretary Ajay Kumar Bhalla had called a meeting to discuss UT affairs and the demands of employment in the region.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/leh-kargil-observe-strike-over-statehood-demand-101639430830949.html
14-12-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab local bodies department seeks objections on Mohali MC boundary extension||The local bodies department of Punjab has sought objections and suggestions from people regarding extending the boundary of the municipal corporation of Mohali. The notification in this regard was issued on Monday and objections are to be submitted within 30 days.In June this year, the MC, under mayor Amarjit Singh Sidhu, passed a resolution to increase the boundary. The new areas, which will be included under its limit will include Sector 90, 91, 82, TDI city, Balongi, which has two panchayats, Chapper Chiri, Bariyali, Ballomajra, Mauli Baidwan, Chilla, Laknaur, Chapper Chiri Khurd.Addressing mediapersons, former health minister of Punjab, Balbir Singh Sidhu said, “It has been a long-pending demand of the people. We promised the people of Mohali before the municipal elections that after winning the municipal elections we would bring a resolution to increase the demarcation of Mohali MC. Several villages will be benefitted from it.”He said after coming under the purview of the MC, proposals for its planning and development for these areas will be prepared. City mayor Amarjit Singh Sidhu, senior deputy mayor, Amrik Singh Somal, deputy mayor, Kuljeet Singh Bedi and MC Commissioner Kamal Kumar Garg were also present.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-local-bodies-department-seeks-objections-on-mohali-mc-boundary-extension-101639430710987.html
14-12-2021||Chandigarh||Youth, minor girl who snatched cab in Khuda Ali Sher surrender before Rajasthan court||Two days after a youth and girl allegedly stabbed a cab driver and fled with his vehicle on Khuda Ali Sher-Saketri road, the duo surrendered before a court in Rajasthan.Sources in the police said the girl involved is a minor and youth, whose name has been withheld by the police, had kidnapped her from Rajasthan. A case against him has already been registered by the minor’s family, cops added. Police have also recovered the robbed cab from Shimla. Chandigarh senior superintendent of police Kuldeep Singh Chahal said, “The duo has surrendered before the court. We will be bringing them on production warrant.”The cab driver, Rajat Mehta, hailing from Patiala and working with Uber, had alleged that a man and girl had driven off with his Alto car after stabbing him near Forest Hill gate on Khuda-Ali-Sher-Saketri road on December 11. Mehta had told the police that he had picked up the accused from Sector 43. The accused told him they wanted to go to Kansal. While they were in Khuda Ali Sher, the accused stabbed the driver while the girl bit him before throwing him out of the vehicle. Mehta was rushed for treatment to Government Multi Specialty Hospital (GMSH), Sector 16, where his condition is said to be stable. Police have registered a case under Section 392 (robbery) and 506 (criminal intimidation) of Indian Penal Code (IPC) at the Sector 3 police station in Chandigarh. 
14-12-2021||Chandigarh||Kashmir cannot march ahead without Jammu and vice-versa: Tarigami||Taking a cue from farmers’ successful agitation that compelled the Centre to withdraw three farm laws, People’s Alliance for Gupkar Declaration (PAGD) has started mulling ways to bring Jammu on board in its ‘struggle’ for restoration of Articles 370 and 35-A. “Kashmir cannot march ahead without Jammu and Jammu cannot ignore Kashmir. Both (Jammu and Kashmir), including Ladakh, have to move together. We are linked with our history and common interests”, CPI (M) leader and spokesperson of the PAGD MY Tarigami told scribes here. The PAGD, commonly called Gupkar Alliance, is an amalgam of regional parties of Jammu and Kashmir, including the National Conference, People’s Democratic Party and the CPI (M), which has moved the apex court challenging revocation of Articles 370 and 35-A, which divested Jammu and Kashmir of its special status. “We must identify the areas where we can agree and we have every right to disagree as well but while disagreements are there, there can be possibilities of agreements as well. We must explore the possibilities where some sort of a commonality emerges, which can be a binding force for all of us and we move together so that some relief is provided to the people of Jammu and Kashmir,” said Tarigami and informed that for this purpose he has come to Jammu to reach out to the civil society and political activists. When asked about no representation of Jammu in the PAGD, he said, “As far as constituents of the PAGD are concerned, there is a strong feeling that without the representation of Jammu and involvement of people of Jammu, without any credible dialogue with a cross-section of Jammu, including civil society, there will be no headway. Kashmir cannot go alone we have to move together…this is an article of faith (Article 370) for us.” In this context, the former legislator cited the instance of Kargil and Leh, which despite the difference of opinion over Articles 370 and 35-A, have joined hands for having constitutional safeguards over jobs and lands. 
14-12-2021||Chandigarh||Bill to enable rural folks to use properties as financial assets tabled in Himachal assembly||The state government on Monday introduced the Himachal Pradesh Abadi Deh (Record of right) Bill, 2021, to enable people of rural areas use their properties as financial assets, creation of land records for rural planning and reduce legal cases and land dispute over “abadi” land in rural areas.Presenting the Bill in the House, parliamentary affairs minister Suresh Bhardwaj said the ministry of panchayati raj of the Union government has launched a Central sector scheme titled Survey of Villages and Mapping with Improved Technology in Village Areas (SVAMITVA) among others to resolve the existing rights of the proprietors within the area of “abadi deh”.He said the proposed law is aimed at bringing financial stability to the citizens in rural India by enabling them to use their property as a financial asset for taking loans and other financial benefits to create accurate land records for rural planning, creation of survey infrastructure and geographic information system maps that can be leveraged by department for their use.It would help in preparation of better - quality Gram Panchayat Development Plan (GPDP) by making use of the geographic information system maps and to reduce property-related disputes and legal cases, he said.The minister said the “abadi deh” area in Himachal Pradesh is not assessed to land revenue and this area has remained without recording of rights of the proprietors, preparation of record or the marking of boundaries by carrying out a survey. This has over the years resulted in disputes about the demarcation of boundaries and identification of rights in the dwelling and other areas, besides causing hardship in the effective transfer of rights. The object of this Bill is to make a law to identify the record and resolve the existing rights of the proprietors within the “abadi deh” by a process of ascertaining the person(s) best entitled to be recorded as proprietor, besides, demarcating, delineating the boundaries and areas of each survey unit. It also aims at creating a presumption of truth in the records so prepared. The preparation of this record would provide for the development of the “abadi deh” that preserves the heritage of the village to the extent possible and provide and upgrade civic services.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/bill-to-enable-rural-folks-to-use-properties-as-financial-assets-tabled-in-himachal-assembly-101639430290806.html
14-12-2021||Chandigarh||Two Lashkar militants killed in encounter in Srinagar’s Rangreth||The police on Monday claimed to have killed two Lashkar militants during a “chance encounter” at Rangreth on the city outskirts.This is the third encounter in Kashmir in the last three days and forces have claimed to have killed six militants in these gunfights.A police spokesman said based on specific inputs regarding the movement of militants at Rangreth, surprise checking points were established.“During checking at one such naka, two persons on noticing the police party fired indiscriminately upon them. However, the fire was effectively retaliated, leading to a brief encounter. In the ensuing encounter, two terrorists were neutralised on the spot.”The police identified the militants as Aadil Ahmad Wani of Daramdoora Shopian (a Pakistan-trained “A” category terrorist) while another terrorist as per sources is a foreign terrorist and affiliated to the LeT.The police spokesman said they were involved in several terror crime cases and civilian atrocities and played a key role in a number of recent killings in Srinagar City. “On March 4, 2020, terrorist Aadil along with his associates fired upon a police party of the Warpora Police Post, Sopore, in which a police personal, Wajahat Asadullah, and a civilian were killed. Besides he was also involved in several grenade attacks on forces establishments, including grenade attack at the Sopore bus stand, in which 19 civilians were injured and a grenade attack at the police post, Sopore bus stand, in which two police personnel were injured,” he said, adding that two AK rifles were recovered from the site of the encounter.On Sunday, forces had claimed to have killed a local Jaish-e-Mohammad (JeM) militant in an encounter in south Kashmir’s Bargam, Pulwama district. The militant was identified as Sameer Ahmad Tantray of Bargam, Awantipora. On Saturday, three LeT/ TRF militants were killed in an encounter at Check Cholan village in Shopian after forces launched a joint operation. The militants were identified as Amir Hussain Ganie, Rayees Ahmed Mir and Haseeb Ahmad Dar, all residents of Shopian.This year more than 140 militants, both locals and foreigners, were killed across the Valley in different encounters, including several top commanders of various militant groups.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/two-lashkar-militants-killed-in-encounter-in-srinagar-s-rangreth-101639430233450.html
14-12-2021||Chandigarh||Expedite implementation of Forest Rights Act: Lahaul and Spiti tribals||Calling for the expeditious implementation of the Forest Rights Act (FRA), tribals from Lahaul and Spiti and Kinnaur districts met Congress members and sought support from them for the speedy implementation of the Act The FRA, 2006, recognises the rights of forest-dwelling tribal communities and other traditional forest dwellers to forest resources. “Almost 15 years have passed since this historical event whereby rights of communities dependent on land classified as forestland were to be recognised after decades of being labeled as encroachers facing the constant threat of eviction by the state,” said Manshi Asher of Himdhara Collective,. “Despite having one of the highest percentages of total geographical area legally termed as forestland, Himachal has the worst record in the implementation of this Act, with mere 164 titles issued to date. Whereas, there is hardly any forestland in the state where local communities do not have forest usage and dependence for livelihood needs,” she said. In the last five years, communities from Kangra, Chamba, Kinnaur, Lahaul-Spiti, Sirmaur and Mandi have been raising the demand for the implementation of this law in the state. It was after this that the state government was forced to announce that it would implement the Forest Rights Act in a mission mode in 2018. However, these are yet to be properly distributed at the village level. The FRCs have submitted both individual and community claims under the FRA, 2006, some as early as 2014. Still, no final decision has been taken on these claims. During the ongoing Vidhan Sabha winter session, a joint delegation of representatives of organisations from Lahaul-Spiti, Kinnaur, Chamba and Kangra briefed MLAs of opposition parties on this issue.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/expedite-implementation-of-forest-rights-act-lahaul-and-spiti-tribals-101639430232017.html
14-12-2021||Chandigarh||Congress protests ‘backdoor’ entries; holds mock assembly in Himachal House||The Opposition Congress on Monday created uproar in the House seeking discussion on “backdoor appointments, policy for outsourcing employees and jobs on compassionate grounds” staging a unique protest by holding a mock assembly within the assembly before staging a walkout. As soon as the House assembled for the day’s proceedings, Congress member Ram Lal Thakur sought to know about the adjournment motion notice given by the opposition members under Rule 67. The Speaker, Vipin Singh Parmar, denied the discussion citing a question on the same issue listed for December 15 and started to give a ruling. Interrupting him, Leader of Opposition Mukesh Agnihotri said the Speaker should not give a ruling without listening to the opposition members. “You should listen to at least one of the five members who have given the notice,” Agnihotri told the Speaker adding, “The Opposition needs the protection of the Speaker and he should not act partially.”Continuing with his ruling, the Speaker said as per Rule 69 (2) of the Rules of Procedure and Conduct of Business in the Himachal Pradesh Legislative Assembly, not more than one matter shall be made on the same motion.“The notice given by the members contains more than one issue,” he said.Further, the Speaker said that as per Rule 69 (6) the motion shall not anticipate a matter, which has been previously appointed for consideration.“A question is already listed on December 15 on the same issue. Hence, the notice stands rejected,” he ruled and announced the Question Hour.The agitated Opposition members then moved to the well and started a mock assembly. With Ram Lal Thakur as their speaker, the mock assembly also passed several resolutions. Later, the Opposition staged a walkout.Speaking to the media outside the House, Ram Lal Thakur alleged that the government was running away from discussion on the important issues. He said the Opposition had sought adjournment of business of the House to discuss the ‘backdoor entries in various government departments and issues of outsourced employees and jobs on compassionate ground. He said the government was doing backdoor entries on outsourcing without following the due procedures and rules. He alleged that the appointments were being done through a Shimla-based company that belongs to the BJP and the employees through the company were not being given their dues which is a big scam.He said the government has also failed to formulate a policy for outsourced employees.“Also, the government had announced that if an employee dies on the last day of duty, his kin would be given a job on compassionate ground,” said Ram Lal.He said more than 5,000 people were awaiting appointments on compassionate grounds. However, now the government is stating that appointments on the compassionate ground could be given only on 1% posts of the total vacancies. “If it was so, why did they make a promise,” asked Thakur. He also accused the Speaker of being biased, who, he said does as directed by the government. He also questioned chief minister Jai Ram Thakur’s absence from the assembly and said if he was not to attend, why did the government call the session. Meanwhile, Jal Shakti minister condemned the behaviour of the Opposition members and alleged that it was their old tactics to disrupt the proceedings of the House. 
14-12-2021||Chandigarh||Once a small-town girl, Miss Universe Harnaaz Sandhu capturing hearts across globe||Born in Kohali village, around 60 kilometres from Batala in Gurdaspur district, Harnaaz Sandhu has come a long way from being a small-town girl to becoming the reigning Miss Universe. As she brought home the crown after a gap of 21 years, her friends, family and teachers all joined in to celebrate the achievement. The 21-year-old had moved to the tricity in 2008, after spending two years in England. Her father, Pritampal Singh Sandhu, 56, a realtor, says the family has always encouraged her to pursue her dreams.“When she participated in her first pageant, her mother and brother hid it from me. It was only after she won that they told me of this interest of hers. I immediately told my daughter that there was no need to hide her interests. Times have changed and she must do what she is good at,” he said proudly while talking to reporters at the family’s residence in Shivalik City, Kharar. He added that as he comes from a ‘simple’ Jatt family, he wasn’t sure people from his village may approve of his daughter’s career choices. But he is overwhelmed by the congratulatory messages pouring in ever since the 21-year-old won the crown.Her mother Dr Rabinder Kaur Sandhu, a gynecologist and senior medical officer at Sohana Hospital, Mohali, reveals how her father dotingly calls Harnaaz “Sherni”. “I never forced her to become a doctor or an engineer. I told her to follow her heart. Nobody in our immediate family or friends’ circle have any idea about this career. In fact, we used to watch YouTube videos to learn about ramp-walk etc.” A devout woman, Dr Sandhu was at the Sohana gurdwara when she was informed of her daughter’s victory. “Harnaaz is also very religious. We will surely visit the Golden Temple in Amritsar to thank God for her success. After this, I will not force her to do anything but she loves working with underprivileged kids and I will encourage her to do this and speak out on women empowerment,” she said.Harnaaz’s brother Harnoor Sandhu, who is seven years older than her and works as a musician and video editor, said he was too excited to sleep last night. “I was watching the show live online and could barely keep watching as she entered the final 3.”The siblings share a good rapport and Harnoor said that Harnaaz wanted to become a judge before she got interested in beauty pageants. Harnaaz is fond of cooking and as per her family, she loves eating jalebis and her favourite meal is makki di roti sarson da saag with loads of ghee.She is a final year student of MA Public Administration at Post Graduate Government College for Girls, Sector 42. College principal Nisha Aggarwal was among those who came to congratulate the family. Harnaaz also studied BA (IT) from this college and one of her professors Mohit Verma spoke about how she had is great at mimicry. She studied in Shivalik Public School, Sector 41, for six years and had scored a CGPA of 8 in her Class-10 boards.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/once-a-small-town-girl-miss-universe-harnaaz-sandhu-capturing-hearts-across-globe-101639430170906.html
14-12-2021||Chandigarh||Himachal assembly in session: Govt has reduced contract period of staff, says Suresh Bhardwaj||There were a total of 23,417 contract employees appointed in Himachal Pradesh, of which 18,106 are posted in the government departments and 5,311 in boards and corporations, urban development minister Suresh Bhardwaj said on Monday.The government has reduced the contract period of employees from three years to two years, he said while replying to a question jointly raised by CPIM legislator Rakesh Singha and BJP MLA Pawan Nayyar.The minister said constables in the police departments were recruited on a regular basis. He said only two employees are engaged on contract in the police department, one in Shimla and one in Dharamshala.The urban development minister said that the orders given by the Supreme Court regarding contract employees have been implemented in the state. He also said the new pay scale for the employees would be implemented soon.The Himachal Pradesh government has removed a major condition regarding the construction works of school buildings in the state. Earlier, before the tender process of any building construction, it was mandatory to deposit a 30% amount with the public works department, education minister Govind Singh Thakur stated in the House.He was replying to a question asked by Sundernagar MLA Rakesh Jamwal.He said the government has allocated an adequate budget for the construction of school buildings, but in many places, the work has not started yet due to some reasons and in many places, the work has not been completed.In a written reply to a question raised by CPIM legislator Rakesh Singha, health minister Rajiv Saizal said the state government has decided to pay ₹1,500 per month as ex gratia payment /honorarium for April and May, 2021, to Asha workers and funds for disbursement of this incentive is being provided shortly.He said the total financial implications in the case of Asha workers is more than ₹2.36 crore.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/himachal-assembly-in-session-govt-has-reduced-contract-period-of-staff-says-suresh-bhardwaj-101639430112363.html
14-12-2021||Chandigarh||Process on for dues payment of mid-day meal workers in Himachal: Govind Singh Thakur||The Himachal Pradesh government is paying ₹1,600 additional honorarium to mid-day meal workers and their pending dues will be paid soon, education minister Govind Singh Thakur said on Monday.He was replying to a calling attention motion moved by CPIM legislator Rakesh Singha on “Situation arising due to non-payment of honorarium mid-day meal workers,” he said.Thakur said mid-day meal scheme is a Centre- sponsored scheme that has been implemented in the ratio of 90:10.Ninety percent of the expenditure is borne by the Government of India and 10% by the state government.“Presently, under the scheme, mid-day meals are distributed to children from Class I to VIII benefiting, 6,03,456 children,” he said. He said the Centre had made the provision of providing an honorarium of ₹1,000 per month to mid-day meal workers — ₹900 was by Centre and ₹100 by the state government. “However, our government has increased the honorarium of the mid-day meal workers from time to time,” said Thakur.He said the state government is presently giving ₹1,600 additional honorarium to these workers and they have also been provided insurance cover under the Chief Minister Himcare Yojana.From this financial year, the mid-day meal has been brought under the Public Finance Management System by the Government of India due to which accounts of single nodal agency and vendor have been opened.“Due to this arrangement, the instalment was not received from the Central government,” he said.However, the state government issued a grant-in-aid to the block elementary education officers of the respective districts to pay the honorarium to the mid-day meal workers and the procedure of releasing the funds to school management committees has been started.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/process-on-for-dues-payment-of-mid-day-meal-workers-in-himachal-govind-singh-thakur-101639430110883.html
14-12-2021||Delhi||North MCD staff withdraw stir after salary assurances||North Delhi Municipal Corporation employees withdrew their agitation against non-payment of salaries on Monday within hours after civic body officials assured them to clear their dues within a given time frame.At least 10,000 employees that included doctors, paramedical staff, nurses, teachers and sanitation workers announced a 24-hour strike on Monday against non-payment of salaries and dearness allowance for several months even as they alleged that the civic body has failed to live up to previous assurances.The teachers, however, on Monday said they will continue their boycott of online classes until they get their salaries.A meeting was held on Monday between the civic body officials and members of various employees’ unions following which the agitation was called off, North MCD mayor Raja Iqbal Singh said. “We had a positive meeting with confederation of employees’ unions today. We have accepted most of their demands. As their main demand was related to notification of enhanced dearness allowances (DA), the North MCD has already issued a circular regarding that,” he said.According to a circular issued by the corporation on Monday, all the drawing and disbursing officers (DDOs) were directed to ensure 31% DA is given with the regular salary of December. HT has seen a copy of the circular.The three municipal corporations are facing a crippling financial crunch with all of them running huge budgetary deficits, and struggling to pay salaries to their employees. The crisis has come at a time when the national capital is going to face civic polls in three months. Though the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), which has governed the corporations for three straight terms, has claimed that it was being devoid of funds by the Delhi government, the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) — which is in power in the state — has maintained it has cleared all dues under all heads, and in fact has given extra to help the corporations pay salaries to their employees.The north MCD has a deficit of over ₹8,000 crore while its total budget for the next financial year is around ₹5,500 crore, according to the budget documents.Jogi Ram Jain, chairman of the North MCD’s standing committee, said the salaries of teachers will be released within a week, and that of the group-D employees, including the safai karmacharis, will be released within two weeks. “The other demands of the employees have also been taken into consideration by the corporation and efforts are being made to resolve the pending issues at the earliest,” he said.AP Khan, the convener of the Confederation of Municipal Corporation of Delhi Employees Union (CMCDEU), who attended the meeting with the corporation officials, said they have withdrawn the agitation considering the “positive approach” of the civic body administration. “Since municipal authorities have asked for three weeks’ time, to redress all our grievances, all unions of the confederation have unanimously accepted their proposal. If they do not fulfil their promises within the stipulated time, we’ll decide the further course of protest,” he said.The AAP decried the BJP-ruled North MCD’s assurances, and added that the civic body was fooling the employees.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/north-mcd-staff-withdraw-stir-after-salary-assurances-101639429858267.html
14-12-2021||Chandigarh||Mohali mishap: A day on, another victim succumbs to injuries||A day after three persons, including a six-year-old boy and his mother, died in a road mishap near Sector 86, their 67-year-old relative also succumbed to her injuries. The deceased has been identified as Usha Devi, the mother of Anuj Bansal, who was driving the car and had died on the spot along with Kriti Gupta, 30, her son Nivansh Gupta, 6.Meanwhile, police arrested the driver of the Mahindra pick-up van, Kunwar Pal, who is a resident of Kumbra village. In a statement to the police, the driver said, he was on the right side, but the car came from the wrong side and rammed into his vehicle.Investigating officer, Sanjeev Kumar said two other injured are still in a critical state and under observation at Sohana hospital. The fateful incident took place on Sunday afternoon when six persons of a family were returning after attending a bhog ceremony of a relative in Lehragaga town of Sangrur district.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/mohali-mishap-a-day-on-another-victim-succumbs-to-injuries-101639429690874.html
14-12-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana Consumer Disputes Redressal Commission asks insurance company to pay ₹1.24L||For failing to pay the complete covered medical insurance amount to a 65-year-old patient while being admitted in the hospital, District Consumer Disputes Redressal Commission, Ludhiana, has directed United India Insurance Company Limited to pay the remaining amount of ₹1.24 lakh and ₹5,000 compensation.Manmohan Singh of Doraha, Ludhiana, submitted that he along with his wife was a joint holder of individual health insurance policy valid from December 30, 2013 to December 29, 2013, whereby he was covered upto an amount of ₹2. 25 lakh.The complainant was hospitalised in Satguru Partap Singh Apollo Hospital on December 01, 2013 following chest pain and was operated the next day and discharged on December 05, 2013.Singh claimed that the hospital raised a bill of ₹4,69,253 out of which he paid ₹3,04,253 while the insurance company paid just ₹1.05 lakh. Alleging deficiency of service, Singh sought the remaining amount from the insurance company along with ₹5 lakh compensation with interest @18% per annum.As per insurance companyThe counsel for the insurance company pleaded that the complainant was entitled to ₹ 1,00,910 only. He added that the complainant was suffering from DM and HTN (diabetes mellitus and hypertension) for the last 20 years.“The complainant was treated for CAB-PCI and pre-existing disease was not covered after 48 months of the policy. The sum insured in the year 2008 was ₹1.50 lakh as per the terms and conditions of the policy. In case of major surgery, only 70% of the amount was payable. The complainant submitted a claim of ₹ 4,69,253 but he was entitled to 70% of the sum insured of ₹ 1.50 lakh which has already been paid to the complainant,” added the counsel for the insurance company.Commission’s orderThe commission observed that plea by the insurance company was not tenable since the policy of insurance was taken by the complainant for the first time in the year 2007.“The condition of 48 months cannot be said to be applicable during the policy period of December 30, 2012 to December 29, 2013 as four years had already passed. The respondents have further claimed that the sum insured in the year 2008 was ₹ 1.50 lakh which also does not seem to be correct as no document has been produced on record. Even otherwise the sum insured mentioned in the year 2008 cannot be taken into account as during the currency of the current policy the claim was lodged, when the sum insured was ₹ 2.25 lakh,” stated the commission.The commission further ordered the insurance company to pay the remaining amount of ₹ 1,24,090 to the complainant along with interest @7%per annum from the date of filing of complaint till the date of actual payment and an additional amount of ₹ 5,000 as compensation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-consumer-disputes-redressal-commission-asks-insurance-company-to-pay-124l-101639429450831.html
14-12-2021||Chandigarh||Govt schools in Ludhiana at capacity, students take exam sitting on floor||Bursting at the seams due to a clash between the date sheets of board and non-board classes, government schools were seen struggling to accommodate students on Monday so much so that several students were made to sit on the cold and grimy floors to take the exam. Class 10 and 12 students took the Punjabi board exam on Monday, while Classes 3, 4 and 9 sat for the mathematics exam; Classes 6 and 7 for English and science exams, respectively; and Class 11 students appeared for economics and chemistry exams, as per their stream.At Government Senior Secondary School, PAU, hundreds of students were seen haunched over themselves as they struggled to write their exam without a table to support their book on the basketball court and the backyard of the school. Not only were floors coated with a thick layer of dust, but the area was unhygienic with a pool of stagnant muddy water in close vicinity. Irate parents said that the least the school authorities could have done was provide them with mats and carpets and have the area cleaned before seating the students. Not enough invigilatorsTeachers blamed lack of infrastructure and shortage of teachers for the decision to seat students on the floors. A teacher, requesting anonymity, said, “We have seven sections for Class 6 students, and around 70 students study in each section. During exams, two students cannot be seated together to take their exam. Therefore, the entire class was made to sit on the floor”, said a teacher.“To make matter worse, the education department deputed 40 teachers from GSSS, PAU, schools for exam duty and provided inadequate replacements. Of the remaining teachers, a few were busy with election duty, which made it hard to invigilate the exam. Two teachers were deputed to monitor the Class 6 students,” said a teacher. A senior official in the local education department, who did not wish to be named, said the board should not have clashed the exam dates of board and non-board classes, which ultimately led to chaos in schools.Meanwhile students of class 11th had to wait for a long outside the gate of the PAU school since they were only allowed to enter the exam centre after class 10th students finished their exams.The situation was no different in GHS Giaspura as students of classes 6th, 7th and 9th were seated around the school grounds because of inadequate number of supervisors.“There are six sections each of classes 6th and 7th in the school and we have five sections for Class 9 students. Our 18 teachers from the school are busy with the board duties in other schools. With mere 12 teachers available in the school we had to make the students seated together in the ground on the mats,” a teacher from the GHS, Giaspura, said. Class 11 exam delayed “Our exam was supposed to start at 11:45am but we were kept waiting outside the school gates till 12:30pm,” a Class-11 student said.This is the first time PSEB students received multiple-choice questions in board exams, and the exams have been divided into two terms of 50 marks each.Karamjit Kaur, a Class 10,student said the MCQ pattern made the exam easy and quick.Another Class 10 student, Siman Deep Kaur, said that a thorough reading of the chapters was required so as to choose the right answer in the examination. 
14-12-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana daughter homecoming: Never stop dreaming, says Divya Dutta||Having made a name for herself in the dazzling galaxy of film stars, actor Divya Dutta visited her home town, Ludhiana, on Monday with a message of hope and encouragement for all the dreamers struggling to make it big in life. In a candid interaction at an event organised by the Federation of Chambers of Commerce and Industry Ladies Organisation (FICCIFLO), Dutta said, “All youngsters dreaming of making it big must never stop dreaming, and should work hard to realise their goals.” “Girls! Do that you want to do, and if you can make a living out of what you love to do, there is nothing like it,” she said as the audience broke into thunderous applause. To carve a niche in Bollywood in a ‘dog-eats-dog world’ was no mean feat. “It was not easy, but my mother was always supportive of me. In life, you need one person who always keeps you grounded and makes you realise that what is happening is for the good, and is destined to be as long as you do your karma. My mother was that person for me,” she said.‘Wanted to be on stage since school’ She also thanked her teachers from her alma mater, Sacred Heart Convent School and Government College For Girls, for shaping her. “I knew I needed to be on stage right from my school days. I am so happy to be where I am today,” she admitted. Her teachers, Kusum Sharma and Rashmi Grover, who taught her biology and English in school and college respectively, were stoked to be in the audience. “She was an extremely bright student. She always stood out from the rest. She has maintained contact with me over all these years. Despite her busy schedule, she takes time out for us, which is most touching. She is still the same bubbly student for us, and is a megastar for a reason,” said a proud Sharma.‘A city brimming with love, warmth’ So, what is the first thing that Dutta does on returning to her city? Make a list of people I want to meet. “Returning to the city is always a nostalgic experience. The traffic may have grown, and there may be one or two new bridges, but for me Ludhiana is always brimming with people’s love and warmth and loads of memories, which I will always cherish,” she said.On her latest book ,The Stars In My Sky, the actor said, “It is about 32 of my co-actors and directors, who have been my stars, brightening my journey in the film world. From Amitabh Bachchan and Shabana Azmi to Shah Rukh Khan, Salman Khan, Dharmendra, Juhi Chawla and Sonali Bendre, the book tells and extraordinary story.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-daughter-homecoming-never-stop-dreaming-says-divya-dutta-101639429151026.html
14-12-2021||Chandigarh||Three areas in Ludhiana declared micro containment zones||Amid fear that the spread of the Omicron strain of the coronavirus could trigger the third wave of the coronavirus, the health department is being proactive in containing any possible outbreak. The department has set up three micro- containment zones in three posh localities namely Gurdev Nagar, South Model Gram and Sarabha I- Block, after two families tested positive for the coronavirus.A department official, requesting anonymity, said that the family members were tested positive in South Model Gram, while four family members were found positive in Sarabha Nagar.Their samples have been sent for mandatory genome-sequencing test. None of those who tested positive had come in contact with an international traveller.A letter issued by the health and family welfare department of Punjab had asked all civil surgeons, vice-chancellors of the medical and animal sciences university, medical colleges of the state and private testing laboratories to share the data.The letter reads that passengers who travel internationally are required to undergo RTCPR test as per government guidelines and at the same time, if anyone is found corona positive, it is necessary to find out its variant. “Hence, if any international traveller comes to your institution or laboratory and is found corona positive, then a sample should be sent immediately for Government Medical College (GMC), Patiala, for genome squencing test,” reads the letter.Four fresh cases addedAs many as four fresh cases of the coronavirus were reported in the district on Monday. According to the reports shared by district administration, the number of active patients in the district has increased to 37 of which 33 are home isolated and four are undergoing treatment in private hospitals.The tally of positive cases has reached 87,707, of which 85,556 have recovered. As many as 2,114 have succumbed to Covid.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/three-areas-in-ludhiana-declared-micro-containment-zones-101639429030618.html
14-12-2021||Chandigarh||Panchkula man latest Covid fatality in Chandigarh tricity area||A 67-year-old man of Dhamala village of Panchkula died of Covid-19 on Monday. Doctors said he had comorbidities, including diabeties, hypertension and kidney disease.The district had recorded its previous death on October 4. Meanwhile, the tricity reported 16 cases in all on the day, of which Chandigarh had the maximum cases at 12. Both Mohali and Panchkula reported two cases each.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/panchkula-man-latest-covid-fatality-in-chandigarh-tricity-area-101639428972134.html
14-12-2021||Chandigarh||Mohali’s Pancham Society: After 15 years, 448 flat allottees to get ownership rights||In a major relief for around 448 flat allottees of Pancham Cooperative Society in Sector 68, the Greater Mohali Area Development Authority (GMADA) is all set to give them ownership rights after 15 years, with the builder finally clearing the pending land dues to the tune of ₹15 crore.Currently, the owners are unable to sell the flats as they do not have the ownership rights. GMADA had allotted the land to the society in the year 2000, and possession of flats was given in January, 2006. At the time of possession of flats, the members were asked to pay an additional amount of ₹1.15 lakh for HIG flats and ₹72,000 for HIG super. The allottees paid the amount to the builder, who was to further pay it to GMADA but the latter failed to do so. As a result, the ownership rights were held up.As per records, Pancham Society was to pay ₹4.49 crore as land dues to GMADA in 2005. With addition of interest, the figure rose to ₹7.79 crore in October 2006 and is now estimated to be around ₹15 crore. In 2012, GMADA had issued a public notice regarding resuming land of Pancham Society, and in the same year, 225 members filed a writ petition in the Punjab and Haryana high court against GMADA, registrar society, secretary housing. In 2019, the court ordered the registrar, cooperative society that recoveries be made from all those found guilty in various inquiries.A senior GMADA official said, “We have already made the proposal to give ownership rights to flat allottees by charging the cost of land proportionate to the land it is occupying. The proposal will be sent to the chief minister of Punjab this week for final approval and hopefully, by the end of this month, it will be done.”On the amount paid by the allottees to the builder, the official said, “The allottees have already filed a recovery suit, and the court has allowed them and the registrar of cooperative society to execute it. It will be a major boost, as most of them have not been able re-sell the flats for all these years.” Wing commander Charanjit Singh (retd), a resident of the society, said, “It is a welcome step as we have been fighting for ownership for more than a decade. Though as of now, we haven’t got any official intimation.”
14-12-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana | Auto rickshaw, private bus drivers spar over parking space||High drama unfolded at the Samrala Chowk on Monday after the drivers of auto rickshaws and private buses got into a heated argument over the space designated by the Municipal Corporation and traffic police.The authorities had earlier marked a yellow line at the site to designate the parking space for auto rickshaws. However, in the process, private buses that used to halt the buses at Samrala Chowk for boarding passengers were left with no space to operate.When a private bus driver parked inside the yellow line, the three-wheeler drivers sat in front of the bus giving rise to heated arguments. The traffic police intervened, informing the private bus drivers about the civic body’s designation of the spot to auto rickshaws.Satish Kumar, president of the District Auto Rickshaw Worker Federation, said, “The authorities put effort to provide us a space on the road to stop, but the bus drivers had tried to encroach the land forcibly.”The civic body has marked similar yellow lines on roads near railway station, Rekhi Cinema Chowk, Samrala Chowk, Chandigarh road and Dhyan Singh Complex outside the bus stand where auto rickshaw drivers park their vehicles.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-auto-rickshaw-private-bus-drivers-spar-over-parking-space-101639428850822.html
14-12-2021||Chandigarh||Nepalese man thrashed, forced to strip over old rivalry in Panchkula||A 19-year-old Nepalese native was allegedly thrashed, forced to strip and videographed by some men, also hailing from Nepal, as he had reportedly passed on information about one of them to the police. The incident took place in a godown in Panchkula on Sunday afternoon.The accused have been identified as Sonu Gupta, Ashok, Man Singh and Sonu Nepali, who work as labourers in the city. Victim, Roshan Chetri, who works as a cook with Aprooja Catering in Sector 22, Chandigarh, said that a few days ago, he had tipped-off the police about Sonu’s whereabouts. Ever since, Sonu had been seeking revenge, the victim claimed.“On December 12, around 2:15pm, I, along with my friends, was sitting in a park in Industrial Area, Phase 1. My friend Karan got a call from Ashok who asked my about me. A few minutes later, Sonu Gupta, Ashok, Man Singh, Sonu Nepali and anouther youth came in an XUV and started thrashing me and forcefully took me to the basement of a godown located on Pinjore-Nalagarh road,” the victim said.“At the godown, they drank liquor and started beating me mercilessly. They then tore off my clothes and recorded an objectionable video. I somehow managed to escape from the godown and ran some distance before I fell down on the road,” he stated.Seeing his condition, some people gathered around him. “In the meantime, Sonu Gupta and his accomplices came in a car and left after threatening me. Someone called an ambulance and took me to the hospital,” the victim further said in the FIR.Police said that the medical reports show that the victim has received 14 blunt injuries.On his statement, a case under Section 66 (E) of Information Technology Act, 2000, and Section 148 (rioting armed with deadly weapon), 149 (unlawful assembly), 323 (voluntarily causing hurt), 365 (kidnapping) and 506 (criminal intimidation) of the Indian Penal Code was registered at the Sector 20 police station in Panchkula.As per police, the accused live in Sectors 12 and 15 and are yet to be arrested.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/nepalese-man-thrashed-forced-to-strip-over-old-rivalry-in-panchkula-101639428730809.html
14-12-2021||Chandigarh||PU brawl: SFS holds protest at Student Centre||Members of Student For Society (SFS) held a protest at the Student Centre on Tuesday condemning the attack on its members by the members of Akhil Bharatiya Vidyarthi Parishad (ABVP) last week outside the AC Joshi library. Last Wednesday, the members of the ABVP and SFS came to blows at the varsity. Laying the blame on each other, both student outfits claimed their members had been injured in the brawl.MORE NEWS IN BRIEFSPanchkula restaurant booked for serving liquor sans permitA Panchkula restaurant, Bar’s a Chicha, has been booked for serving liquor without a permit. The police seized around 18 bottles of liquor and a case was registered under Section 61 of The Punjab Excise Act, 1914 (Haryana Amendment Bill, 2020) at Sector 5 police station.CAT Bar Body holds felicitation functionA felicitation function of the CAT BAR Association was held on Monday under president Rohit Seth, vice-president KK Thakur and secretary JR Syal to honour SK Monga, ,member judicial- cum-HoD of CAT Chandigarh Bench. The HoD also honoured members of the association for their contributions.Police arrested 5 persons for gambling from different parts of city. Four residents of Bapu Dham Colony were arrested while they were gambling behind the Sector-26 market and ₹3,270 was recovered from them. The accused have been identified as Wasim, Raish, Ravi and Abdul. Meanwhile, police arrested one Dalip Kumar of Manimajra while gambling near Tata Steel Yard in Daria village and ₹2,150 was recovered from him. Cases were registered under Gambling Act against all five men and they were later released on bail.CII organises roundtable with Chandigarh administration The Confederation of Indian Industry (CII) organised a roundtable with the UT administration on Monday. The city’s lagging ease of doing business rankings were discussed and UT adviser Dharam Pal said the administration is working towards improving it. “Our efforts are to improve the ranking of UT by removing procedural bottlenecks and making systems online like we have done with UT Estate Office, which has been completely digitised with all its property-related services,” he added.SBI Staff Association organises general council meetingThe 9th Triennial general council meeting of State Bank of India Staff Association, Chandigarh Circle, was held on Monday. Anukool Bhatnagar, chief general manager, SBI, Chandigarh Circle, emphasised on the services rendered by employees of SBI during the pandemic. He also focused on customer service and the competition that the bank is facing. Sanjeev Kumar Bandlish, general secretary of SBISA, raised the issue of the unilateral decision taken by the Centre regarding privatisation of public sector banks.SFS holds protest at Student CentreMembers of Student For Society (SFS) held a protest at the Student Centre on Tuesday condemning the attack on its members by the members of Akhil Bharatiya Vidyarthi Parishad (ABVP) last week outside the AC Joshi library. Last Wednesday, the members of the ABVP and SFS came to blows at the varsity. Laying the blame on each other, both student outfits claimed their members had been injured in the brawl.Chandigarh skaters clinch gold The Under -11 Chandigarh Cadet team bagged first position in the 59th National Roller Skating Championship, 2021, held in Mohali on Monday. They beat Andra Pradesh in finals by 3-1 to walk away with the title.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/pu-brawl-sfs-holds-protest-at-student-centre-101639428620228.html
14-12-2021||Chandigarh||Beware of new online fraud of free mobile recharge: Ludhiana cops||The cyber cell alerted locals about a new online fraud, which is doing the rounds on WhatsApp, and advised them against clicking on any link offering a free mobile phone recharge. Officials said that the fraudsters are sending a link people on WhatsApp claiming that government was providing three-month mobile recharge to celebrate record Covid vaccines in India. “People are forwarding the message without verifying facts, which is compounding the problem.” Inspector Pawan Kumar, in-charge, Cyber Cell Ludhiana said scammers send messages with malicious links via WhatsApp informing users that as India has achieved a 100-crore vaccination record, the government is providing a three-month recharge to every Indian to celebrate the achievement.When people click on the link, fraudsters steal their personal information, including net banking passwords and later make transactions.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/beware-of-new-online-fraud-of-free-mobile-recharge-ludhiana-cops-101639428610778.html
14-12-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh MC polls: BJP shows the door to five rebels for ‘anti-party’ acts||In a strong message to party dissidents, the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) expelled five rebel candidates on Monday while more such action is expected on Tuesday. Gurpreet Singh Happy (Ward 9), Kripanand Thakur (Ward 20), Narender Chaudhary (Ward 26), Mukesh Goyal and Ashwani Gupta (Ward 32) were expelled from the party for six years for “anti-party” activities.Chandigarh state president Arun Sood, said, “The party will not tolerate any indiscipline or anti-party activity. The dissidents were given 10 days to explain their position and withdraw their candidature in favour of the party’s official candidate. But after their non-conformity with the party’s discipline, they were expelled from the party.”Around four to five expulsion are expected within a day or two as party’s ultimatum to other dissidents ends on Tuesday, said Sood. Ever since it announced its tickets, earlier this month, for the forthcoming Chandigarh municipal corporation (MC) elections, the BJP has been facing rebellion within the party. Around a dozen dissidents had even filed nominations as Independents against the party’s official candidates.There was anger on how the party “ignored” the claims of the dedicated party workers and made decisions based on internal party groupings. Sood group was seen as taking the major chunk of tickets. Sood, though, has maintained that it was the extensive surveys conducted by the party and the merit of individual candidates that dictated the selection of the candidates.Party efforts to manage dissidents Senior party leaders from Delhi, former city chief Sanjay Tandon and local office bearers, including Sood, were put into action to convince the rebel candidates to align themselves with the party’s decision on ticket allotment. Party leaders met the dissidents and even offered alternative senior party post to them; it is learnt.The party was successful in convincing four rebel candidates including Rashmi (ward 9), wife of party leader Devendra Singh, and Yashpal Yadav (ward 25) and Ramesh Kumar Nikku (ward 32) to withdraw their nominations. But the party failed to bring most of the dissidents back into party’s fold.Tandon, said, “Their initial disappointment is understandable and the party was in constant communication with them. But party’s discipline is paramount, and so action has to be taken against dissidents.” Responding to his expulsion, a former BJP national Kisan Morcha member and three-time Daria sarpanch, Gurpreet Singh Happy, said, “I have already resigned from the party. I was with the party since 1992, and served the party with dedication at different levels. I have nothing more to say on the issue just that party will learn a lesson on December 27 (MC poll result date).” Happy’s wife Harpreet Kaur is contesting from Ward No 9.Another long-time party worker, Narender Pal Chaudhary, a former state coordinator, Swachh Bharat Vibhag, and a former member of the SC Morcha national executive committee, said, “For more than 30 years, I have dedicatedly worked for the party. But now, people with criminal background are being given tickets. This is the reason I resigned from the party and am contesting as an Independent.”Congress, BJP face Azad Front challengeNotably, the challenge of the rebel leaders has become stiffer for the party after an “Azad Front”, comprising of independent candidates, primarily rebel candidates from Congress and BJP, came together. These candidates have decided to form a united grouping and offer each other help in the elections.The main opposition party, Congress, is facing nearly 12 rebel candidates in different wards. Three of its functionaries even joined the AAP as its candidates after the grand old party rejected their claims to party tickets. Also, nearly 22 candidates in the Aam Admi Party (AAP) are former Congress leaders. They had recently left the party after former Congress city president Pardeep Chhabra resigned from the party and joined AAP.The Congress got a fresh setback on Monday when its three-time councillor Sheela Phool Singh joined the BJP. Singh was denied Congress ticket. A Congress rebel candidate and party’s former organisational secretary Prem Pal Chauhan also joined BJP.
14-12-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana | Amputee ends life by slitting his wrist at DMCH||A 32-year-old farmer on Monday ended his life at the Dayanand Medical College and Hospital by slitting his wrist, two days after undergoing an amputation.According to the deceased’s family members, he was suffering from depression after losing his leg. The man, who was a resident of Ballowal village in Hoshiarpur, was admitted to DMCH following gangrene in his leg. The doctors amputated his leg, following which he was moved to recovery.The attendants noticed his slit wrist shortly after the incident and informed the hospital staff, who rushed him to the emergency ward. The patient, however, was eventually declared dead, having suffered extensive blood loss.Assistant sub-inspector Satnam Singh, who is investigating the case, said “According to the family members, he was suffering from depression after losing his leg. At around 4am on Monday, he took the kitchen knife that was used to cut fruits, and slit his wrist.”Singh stated that the police would carry out proceedings under section 174 of CrPC.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-amputee-ends-life-by-slitting-his-wrist-atdmch-101639428310753.html
14-12-2021||Chandigarh||Congress names Sidhu chairman of election panel ahead of polls||The Congress on Monday appointed party’s Punjab unit chief Navjot Sidhu as chairman of the state Election Committee.The members of the Punjab Pradesh Election Committee include chief minister and CLP leader Charanjit Singh Channi, Ambika Soni, chairperson of the coordination committee, Sunil Jakhar, chairman of campaign committee, and Pratap Singh Bajwa, chairman of manifesto committee.“Congress president has approved the proposal of the formation of Pradesh Election Committee of Punjab Congress with immediate effect, with PCC chief Navjot Singh Sidhu as its chairman,” an official statement from the party said.All MPs from Punjab, both in Lok Sabha and Rajya Sabha, are also members of the panel, besides all ministers of the Punjab government.Former chief minister Rajinder Kaur Bhattal and former PPCC chiefs H S Hanspal and Mohinder Singh Kaypee have also been included as members of the panel.AICC Secretaries K L Sharma and Raminder Singh Amla, besides Punjab Congress senior vice president Lal Singh.Working presidents for all 28 District Congress Committees in the state are part of the 29-member election panel.Former ministers Balbir Singh Sidhu, Shyam Sunder Arora, Rana Gurmit Singh Sodhi, Sadhu Singh Dharamsot and PPCC vice president Gurpreet Kangar and MLAs Ajaib Singh Bhatti and Navtej Singh Cheema have also been made members of the panel.The panel will take all election-related decisions of the party ahead of the Punjab assembly elections, which are slated early next year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/congress-names-sidhu-chairman-of-election-panel-ahead-of-polls-101639427894901.html
14-12-2021||Chandigarh||Congress, BJP have cheated residents for years: Chandigarh AAP co-in-charge||Addressing a public meeting in Sector-22 on Monday, Chandigarh co-in-charge of Aam Aadmi Party (AAP), Pradeep Chhabra said people of Chandigarh gave many opportunities to the BJP and the Congress by trusting them, but both political parties have been cheating them for years. He further said issues like dumping ground, drinking water supply, lack of cleanliness, women safety or other types of problems are rampant in every ward, and the councillors of BJP-ruled MC have been careless on every front.Chhabra said the BJP-Congress are enraged with the rising popularity of the AAP in the city, that is why they are making vague statements. Appealing to the people, Chhabra said on December 24, people of Chandigarh should avenge the corrupt deeds of BJP and Congress for their false promises. Chhabra appealed to the people to give a chance to AAP by pressing the broom button, so that comprehensive and exemplary changes can be made in the city.Former DSGMC chief in city to campaign for saffron partyDelhi Sikh Gurdwara Management Committee (DSGMC)’s former president Manjinder Singh Sirsa was in the town on Monday to seek votes for BJP candidates in view of the upcoming MC election scheduled for Dec 24.Apart from addressing a series of public meetings, he went door-to-door in various sectors. Manjinder Singh campaigned for Manjit Kaur from Ward No. 1, Bhupinder Sharma from Ward No. 34, Jasman from Ward No. 32 and Neha Arora from Ward No. 23 later in the evening.Addressing the public meetings, he emphasised that the election results of UT MC election will decide the direction of elections to be held not only in Punjab but also in other states of the country. Under the leadership of Prime Minister Narendra Modi, the BJP has bloomed its lotus in the north-eastern states of the country.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/congress-bjp-have-cheated-residents-for-years-chandigarh-aap-coincharge-101639428136565.html
14-12-2021||Chandigarh||Milch animals to get ‘Aadhaar- like’ ID tags in Ludhiana||Milch animals will soon be getting ID cards on the lines of Aadhaar Cards, which will allow the animal husbandry department to track their vaccination, history, breeding cycle and milk production.The pilot project, under the National Digital Livestock Mission, is already underway in Uttarakhand and Karnataka. Animal husbandry commissioner Dr Praveen Malik, who was in Jagraon to attend a fair organised by the progressive dairy farmer association, said, “Unique identification will allow us to track the overall production pattern of cows, and buffaloes, which is vital for business and planning.” Recently, the Union minister of state fisheries, animal husbandry and dairy Parshottam Rupala had unveiled the National Digital Livestock Mission (NDLM) blueprint at the National Dairy Development Board (NDDB).Malik said that the central government had taken many initiatives, but departments in the state should also make full use of these policies.Guru Angad Dev Veterinary and Animal Sciences University vice-chancellor Inderjeet Singh said, “There are an estimated 65 lakh cows and buffaloes in the state. The Aadhaar-based tagging of these animals will help us in maintain a record of their vaccination, insemination, and milk and also help us detect outbreaks.”“The dairy sector in the United States and New Zealand flourished only after livestock was linked with the digital network and the government got the record of animals as it helped them maintain the quality of the breed,” said Singh.Progressive Dairy Farmers’ Association president Daljit Singh Sadarpur says there is a trust deficit among dairy farmers. “Many farmers nurse a misconception that the government would keep a check on their livestock to assess their earnings, which is why farmers are not getting their livestock registered,” said Sadarpura.‘Murrah Man’ elected buffalo society prez (EMBEDDED) Guru Angad Dev Veterinary And Animal Sciences University vice-chancellor Inderjeet Singh was elected president of the Indian Society for Buffalo Development on Monday, while GADVASU college of veterinary science secretary SPS Ghuman is the new secretary.Inderjeet Singh, who is famous as the Murrah Man, will succeed SS Dahiya. The society was registered in 1987 to advance all aspects of buffalo production at farms and institutes, and has around 1,700 registered members. Cow produces 63.8g milk, wins contest (BOX) A Holstein-Friesian (HF) cow, which produced 63.80g won the maximum milk-production contest. Chaman Singh was the owner of the cow. Among Jersey cattle, Amarjeet Singh Cheema’s cow won the contest after producing 46.7g of milk, while among Murrah buffalo’s Pardeep Singh’s cow took the first spot with 27.2g milk.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/milch-animals-to-get-aadhaar-like-id-tags-in-ludhiana-101639427950640.html
14-12-2021||Chandigarh||Punjabi University postpones semester exams amid teacher stir||Punjabi University, Patiala, on Monday postponed all semester examinations in view of the ongoing strike of teachers.The exams were to start on Tuesday. The varsity is yet to issue a fresh schedule.On the call given by the Punjab Federation of University and College Teachers Organisations, teachers across government universities and colleges have suspended academic activities to demand the implementation of UGC pay scales. The university employees have also decided to boycott examination process. Punjabi University teachers’ union president Prof Bhupinder Singh Virk said: “We have been forced to start the agitation due to the failure of the Punjab government to keep its promise of implementing UGC pay scales. Punjab is the only state which is yet to implement UGC pay scales notified in November 2017 and UGC regulations notified in 2018.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjabi-university-postpones-semester-exams-amid-teacher-stir-101639427902368.html
14-12-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab polls: Chadha claims four Congress ministers want to join AAP||The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) on Monday claimed that four ministers and other big leaders of the ruling Congress in Punjab were in touch with them and wanted to join the party. The claim was made by AAP Punjab affairs co-incharge Raghav Chadha, who said the party had refused to induct these ministers and leaders because of allegations of links with sand mafia against them. “These four ministers of the Channi government are constantly approaching us, but we have decided not to include them in our party. The party has no need for such leaders,” Chadha said at a virtual press conference, while withholding their names.AAP national convener and Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal and Punjab state president Bhagwant Mann also put their weight behind Chadha’s claim by retweeting his statement. Kejriwal claimed that the AAP would form the government in Punjab after a few months and many leaders from other parties were approaching to join it. “We will not include any corrupt and criminal leader (in the party) under any circumstance. We will give a clean and honest government to Punjab,” he posted on Twitter. Mann also posted that the Congress was about to go and only one month was left. “That’s why many of their big leaders are voraciously looting Punjab. We will not include any dishonest leader in our party,” he alleged. A few days back, Arvind Kejriwal had also made a claim that 25 MLAs and two MPs of the Punjab Congress were approaching him to join the party, but he refused to include them, saying that he did not want Congress’ waste. Channi hits backMeanwhile, hitting back at Chadha, chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi accused him of spreading rumours. He warned the AAP to desist from mouthing lies in order to create unnecessary hype. “The AAP only wants to create its nuisance value by indulging in misleading and malicious talk, but these tactics would backfire,” Channi said while interacting with reporters in Morinda.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-polls-chadha-claims-four-congress-ministers-want-to-join-aap-101639427901110.html
14-12-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab govt to hold meeting with protesting state transport staffers||Senior officials in the Punjab government will hold meetings on Tuesday with representatives of contract and outsourced employees of the state transport undertakings who are on an indefinite strike for the past one week. Bus services across the state remained crippled on Monday as nearly 8,200 employees of Pepsu Road Transport Corporation (PRTC), Punjab Roadways and PUNBUS, stayed away from work for the seventh consecutive day.The contract and outsourced employees have been seeking regularisation of their jobs for over 10 years. With 80% of the staff on strike, the three transport undertakings are suffering losses in crores daily. PRTC has been able to operate only 10% of its 1,100-strong fleet in the past one week. With the daily revenue dropping to ₹65 lakh, it alone is facing ₹1.2-crore losses every day. PRTC managing director Parneet Kaur Shergill said meetings are on with protesters, but they are reluctant to end their strike.“The protesting employees are also going to hold key meetings with top officials at the government level on Tuesday,” she said, adding that the authorities are appealing to them to end the strike and continue it on rotational basis, so that the services don’t suffer.Harkesh Singh Vicky, vice-president of the Roadways/PRTC contractual employees union, said they have also garnered the support of several farmer unions, who have assured them of help to build pressure on the state government.“If the state government fails to take any decision pertaining to our demand of regularisation, we will block national and state highways across the state,” he said, adding that the government was threatening to relieve them from jobs. Among other demands, the union wants stringent measures to keep check on transport mafia, streamlining of daily hourly roster, and implementation of equal salary for equal work law.“It will be difficult for PRTC to overcome the losses in coming days. Already, we were working hard to bridge the gap between daily income and expenditure,” said a PRTC official.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-govt-to-hold-meeting-with-protesting-state-transport-staffers-101639427899830.html
14-12-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab rice millers demand compensation, lifting of curbs||At least 400 rice millers facing curbs by the Punjab food and civil supplies department since 2010 on Monday demanded compensation and lifting of sanctions imposed on them. According to mill owners, they are being made to suffer for no fault of theirs. They claimed they were supplied paddy variety PAU 201 from 2007 to 2010, which had a higher quantity of discoloured grain and broken rice than the permissible limits, due to which the Food Corporation of India (FCI) refused to take the delivery of rice and the mills were told to bear the loses. “Failing to pay for the losses, the state food department has imposed sanctions by blacklisting our firms. Since 2010, we are not allotted paddy for custom milling and we are without business for almost 11 years,” said Davinder Bansal, who used to run a mill in Malerkotla. The blacklisted mills that were supplied PAU 201 have outstanding dues of at least ₹500 crore, he said, adding that despite repeated requests at all levels in the state government, “no one is concerned about our cause”.According to Vijay Jindal, who owned a now blacklisted rice mill in Dhuri: “Procurement agencies were fully aware of the dubious quality of PAU 201. They knew that this variety will not meet FCI specifications, yet it was pushed to us for shelling. Even standard procedures like proper sampling and lab testing were not conducted.”It was in 2007-08, when Punjab Agricultural University introduced this variety as the one which needed less water and had a better yield. At the same time, it had certain disadvantages like greater percentage of breakage and discolouration of the rice. As both the state government and PAU pushed its cultivation, it was grown on large areas by farmersThe rice millers added that a committee from the Centre visited the state to take feedback about the variety and recommended its discontinuation and compensation to rice millers. “The Centre agreed to share the compensation with the state government and released ₹277 crore, but the proposal was never moved forward by the state government,” said Bansal. According to him, two governments have changed in the state, but there is no solution to their problem. Can offer one-time settlement: Minister“We have offered the millers one-time settlement schemes in the past on repeated occasions. At this juncture, the department can’t do more. We again can open the OTS scheme for them,” said food and civil supplies minister Bharat Bhushan Ashu. Reacting to the minister’s proposal, the rice millers said that the OTS scheme was not a solution, as the millers had no role in the cultivation of the poor variety, which was imposed on them. “Even earlier the response to the OTS scheme was poor,” said Bansal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-rice-millers-demand-compensation-lifting-of-curbs-101639427898030.html
14-12-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab CM Channi will end up a night watchman: Capt Amarinder||Taking a dig at Punjab chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi, his predecessor Captain Amarinder Singh on Monday said he will “eventually end up as a night watchman only”.Reacting to the appointment of state Congress chief Navjot Singh Sidhu as the chairman of the Congress election committee for Punjab, Amarinder said it was “unprecedented” that a CM was made subservient to the PPCC president. “No self-respecting leader should accept such humiliation,” he said, adding that he felt sad about the way Channi was being treated by the party despite having “tremendous potential”.Amarinder, who floated his own party to contest the upcoming polls after his unceremonious exit as the CM, had remained at loggerheads with Sidhu. “Just because someone is behaving like a spoilt child and throwing tantrums day in and day out, you are submitting to all his blackmail and in the process insulting and humiliating your chief minister, who is doing a good job,” he said, while hitting out at both Sidhu and the Congress high command.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-cm-channi-will-end-up-a-night-watchman-capt-amarinder-101639427896817.html
14-12-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab prepared to tackle new Covid variants: OP Soni||Amid fears that the new Covid-19 variant Omicron could trigger a third wave of the pandemic, Punjab deputy chief minister OP Soni said on Monday that the state health department was fully prepared to tackle any eventuality.Soni, who also holds the health portfolio, said the state government has enhanced the production of oxygen to 609 MT against the peak demand of 300 MT during the second wave. During the day, he also inaugurated oxygen plants at the Sultanpur Lodhi civil hospital and Christian Medical College and Hospital during two separate events in Kapurthala and Ludhiana. Terming the installation of oxygen plants in all medical colleges and civil hospitals in Punjab a giant step, he said the state had to depend on the Union government for the supply of oxygen during the second wave, but now the state has more than double the capacity against the peak demand. He said people in the state must follow all guidelines of the health department besides getting vaccinated as soon as possible. Replying to a question regarding announcements made by Delhi chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal, Soni said the health model of Delhi is a “complete failure” as thousands of people lost their lives in the national capital during the second wave and many rushed to Punjab hospitals for treatment.Death toll climbs to 16,620Meanwhile, Punjab on Monday registered one death and 26 fresh cases of Covid-19, according to a medical bulletin. The state’s tally of positive cases has reached 6,03,761 and the death toll has climbed to 16,620. The number of active cases stands at 347. Among the fresh cases, Pathankot recorded the maximum five, followed by four in Ludhiana district. The state’s positivity rate for the day remained 0.13%. With 59 persons recovering from the infection, the number of those cured has reached 5,86,794.Also, 99,353 doses of the vaccine were administered on the day.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-prepared-to-tackle-new-covid-variants-opsoni-101639427895344.html
14-12-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab polls 2022: Sidhu to head Congress election panel||The Congress, which has been struggling to gets its house in order in poll-bound Punjab, on Monday switched gears on election preparedness by announcing a 29-member Pradesh Election Committee and naming presidents along with working presidents for all 28 District Congress Committees in the state. The jumbo panel set up to shortlist candidates for the upcoming state polls has Punjab Congress president Navjot Singh Sidhu as the chairman with chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi and most other senior state leaders, including ministers and MPs, as members. Rajya Sabha members Ambika Soni and Partap Singh Bajwa, former state president Sunil Jakhar, HS Hanspal and Mohinder Singh Kaypee, former CM Rajinder Kaur Bhattal, former Punjab Congress senior vice-president Lal Singh and AlCC secretary KL Sharma are also part of the state poll panel, according to a party statement. Dropped cabinet ministers included Besides state unit working presidents Kuljit Nagra, Pawan Goyal and Sukhvinder Singh Danny, former ministers Gurpreet Singh Kangar, Balbir Singh Sidhu, Sham Sunder Arora, Rana Gurmeet Singh Sodhi and Sadhu Singh Dharamsot have also been included. These former ministers were considered close to former CM Capt Amarinder Singh and were dropped from the new cabinet led by Charanjit Singh Channi after the change of guard in the state. Capt Amarinder has since quit the Congress to form his own party. The panel also features MLAs Ajaib Singh Bhatti, Raminder Awla, Raj Kumar Chabbewal and Navtej Singh Cheema, Punjab Mahila Congress president Balbir Rani Sodhi, Punjab Youth Congress chief Barinder Dhillon, NSUI president Akshay Sharma and state seva dal chief organiser Nirmal Kaira. Last week, the high command had named party leader Ajay Maken as the head of the committee for screening prospective candidates and making its recommendations to the central election committee headed by Congress president Sonia Gandhi. 28 DCC presidents, 54 working presidents named The Congress also finally appointed 28 presidents and 54 working presidents to District Congress Committees. The district presidents have been appointed by the party for the first time. In some districts, like Jalandhar Urban, Gurdaspur, Tarn Taran, Ludhiana Urban and Barnala, more than two working presidents have been appointed. The state has 23 administrative districts, of which Jalandhar, Ludhiana, Amritsar, Patiala and Bathinda, have more than one committee of the ruling party. The PPCC chief had last month proposed the names of DCC presidents and working presidents after several rounds of discussions with party leaders. “The leadership has gone with the composition suggested by the PPCC chief but made a few changes to take everyone along and give representation to all castes and communities in the state poll panel and the appointments in district heads,” said a senior party leader. Only two women working presidents However, few women have found place in the Congress list of district heads. While there is not a single woman district president, only two have been appointed working presidents. Niki Riyat has been made working president of Ludhiana Urban District Congress Committee, whereas Yamini Gomar has been appointed working president of Hoshiarpur District Congress Committee.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-polls-2022-sidhu-to-head-congress-election-panel-101639427893912.html
14-12-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab polls: Congress campaign in-charge Jakhar convenes meeting||Punjab Congress campaign committee in-charge Sunil Jakhar has convened a meeting of top party leaders, including chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi and state unit chief Navjot Singh Sidhu, on Wednesday to draw the campaign strategy of the ruling party for the upcoming assembly polls in the state. The former Punjab Pradesh Congress Committee president, who was appointed as the campaign committee head by the party high command a week ago, has also invited Punjab affairs in-charge Harish Chaudhary, All India Congress Committee (AICC) secretaries Harshwardhan Sapkal and Chetan Chauhan, joint secretary Krishna Allavaru and all four Punjab Congress working presidents for the meeting to be held at the state unit headquarters in Chandigarh. The meeting has been called to formulate the strategy and get the views of the state party and the government on focus areas and theme of the campaign. The party is seeking to retain power in the state in the polls due early next year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-polls-2022-campaign-in-charge-jakhar-convenes-meeting-101639427892653.html
14-12-2021||Chandigarh||Ram Rahim moves HC, wants CBI to probe Punjab sacrilege cases||Jailed Dera Sacha Sauda chief Gurmeet Ram Rahim Singh on Monday approached the Punjab and Haryana high court, demanding that the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) be asked to continue with the probe into sacrilege FIRs of 2015.The matter was taken up by the bench of justice Raj Mohan Singh, which deferred the hearing for December 21.The plea demands quashing of Punjab government notification of September 6, 2018, wide which the consent given to the CBI to investigate three FIRs of sacrilege cases has been withdrawn. It further wants directions that the CBI be tasked with continuing the probe into these FIRs from where it was left. It also demands that probe by the special investigation team (SIT) of Punjab Police be stayed.Ram Rahim is currently lodged in a Rohtak jail following his conviction in two rape cases and two murder cases, all dating back to 2002. He was questioned by the Punjab Police on November 8 in its probe into sacrilege cases. Recently, many other Dera functionaries have also been quizzed by the SIT. According to the Punjab Police, the dera head has emerged as the main conspirator.As per the Dera head, the statement which is being cited as basis for launching this probe against him was obtained in July 2020, but “now suddenly”, the SIT had swung into action. The SIT probe is for the sole purpose of “implicating” the petitioner and members of Dera Sacha Sauda and gain electoral benefit, the plea claims, adding that he is not in any manner demanding closure of the probe but only fair and impartial probe, which is “devoid of mala fide, malice and ulterior motives as a result of any political vendetta or political colours so as to punish the culprits for this criminal act”.The plea says Vidhan Sabha has no power to enter into working of executive and resolution of August 2018 on withdrawal of cases from CBI is hit by separation of powers between legislators and executive.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ram-rahim-moves-hc-wants-cbi-to-probe-punjab-sacrilege-cases-101639427891496.html
14-12-2021||Chandigarh||Money laundering: HC seeks status report in case against Khaira||The Punjab and Haryana high court on Monday directed the enforcement directorate (ED) to file a status report in money laundering case against Congress leader Sukhpal Singh Khaira.The high court bench of justice Sureshwar Singh Thakur acted on Khaira’s plea seeking bail. The notice on behalf of ED was received by SV Raju, additional Solicitor General of India, who was directed by the HC to file a detailed reply within a week. The case has been listed for further hearing on December 21. The ED had arrested Khaira on November 11. On December 6, a Mohali court had dismissed his bail plea, observing that the allegations are of serious nature and bail cannot be granted under these circumstances. Khaira has claimed that the ED’s action was a case of “witch hunt” as he has been vocal against the three farm laws. The ED had initiated proceedings under Prevention of Money Laundering Act in January, even as there was a stay from the Supreme Court in the 2015 matter, it was claimed. Raids were conducted in March, and even as the matter was pending before the high court, the arrest was effected though he was summoned 11 times since raids, the Congress leader claimed.Khaira won the assembly election in 2017 from the Bholath assembly seat in Kapurthala district on the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) ticket. He later floated a party, before joining the Congress in June this year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/money-laundering-hc-seeks-status-report-in-case-against-khaira-101639427832544.html
14-12-2021||Chandigarh||Letter bomb: Asthana objects to action against ex-Punjab minister Majithia in drug case||In a new twist to the Congress government’s move on the political-sensitive drug cases ahead of the Punjab assembly elections, a letter purportedly written by the Bureau of Investigation( BOI) chief AS Asthana surfaced on social media on Monday in which he expressed himself against booking Shiromani Akali Dal leader --- former minister Bikram Singh Majithia --- on the basis of a 2018 special task force (STF) report lying in a sealed cover with the high court. Four pages of the letter addressed to director general of police (DGP) Iqbal Preet Singh Sahota on December 11 were also shared with the media from an anonymous foreign number. Senior police officials, privy to the development, confirmed that the pages were from Asthana’s confidential note to his boss in which he has sought more legal scrutiny of the facts before registering an FIR as follow-up to a 2018 report of STF head Harpreet Singh Sidhu which was submitted to the HC. The Channi government has lately been under a mounting pressure, notably from state Congress chief Navjot Singh Sidhu, to act on the STF report on alleged complicity of certain political leaders and police officials in the drug racket. In his letter, Asthana stated that a perusal of the relevant orders of the high court shows that certain statements were recorded by the Enforcement Directorate of some accused in the NDPS cases namely Jagdish Bhola, Jagjit Singh Chahal and Maninder Singh Bittu Aulakh. The HC had entrusted the ED report to STF head Sidhu with direction to examine the same. “Therefore, the report prepared and submitted by STF chief was essentially for the assistance and benefit of the high court. It was not a report made in course of investigation in NDPS cases in the exercise of the STF in the usual course of action,” the letter reads. He added that the record suggest that this very report was, on one hand, handed over to ED and, on other, was handed over to AG, Punjab, for consideration and hence, the state government, under the high court orders, constituted a committee of Punjab DGP and additional chief secretary (Home) to examine it. ‘Drug report only a link in the chain’ “The report of the STF head is only a link in the chain. It is essential to seek permission of the HC to get subsequent report of the committee reopened to verify as to whether the report of STF head has merged into the subsequent reports,” the BoI chief said. He has sought clarity if it would be legally tenable to act upon the report of the head of STF, when the same lies sealed in custody of the high court and despite presumably requesting the HC by AG, Punjab, to return the same it has not been returned to date. Curiously, Asthana wrote the letter to DGP before availing two-day medical leave which ended on Sunday and the same evening he was admitted in the Mohali hospital amid reports of pressure on him to give nod to take action against Majithia. Notably, Asthana was especially brought in by Channi government as BoI head couple of weeks back. He was the third officer to get posting of BoI chief in just one month. Sahota did not respond to Hindustan Times’ calls and text messages to get his version. Asthana read all the text queries sent on his mobile phone but did not respond about the letter. Takes on STF chief In his letter, Asthana also said that STF chief Harpreet Sidhu has conceded that Majithia is his close family relation. “In all fairness, Sidhu should have recused himself from carrying out any probe against Majithia, which less submit his opinion-cum-status report before the high court,” the findings said. The letter said the STF report was not based on any investigation and cannot also be treated as any fresh evidence or new material to enable further investigation, especially in the FIRs whose trial have already been concluded long time ago. “The said report therefore cannot be taken as a source report for the purpose of the further investigation,” said Asthana’s note. The ED, Asthana said, has filed one prosecution complaint and five supplement complaints in the case. “No prosecution complaint has been filed even by the ED against Majithia. The Special court conducting trials of all these cases also at no stage has summoned Majithia as an accused by invoking provisions of the law. Some of the accused, in the money laundering trials in the cases have approached Supreme Court and even their trials have been stayed,” said the letter. “What is weight of three statements recorded by ED to further investigate Majithia when the agency itself chose not to proceed against him?” Legal advice to AG The BoI chief has also mentioned about some latest legal advice of AG in the case. “Can this latest advice be relied upon in the light of the fact that the same may be completely contradictory or in consonance to the previous legal advices by former AGs as this case has been deliberated upon since long,” he wrote. Asthana’s letter has been leaked in the wake of SAD’s shrill allegations of witch-hunt against the ruling Congress. On Sunday, SAD chief Sukhbir Singh Badal publicly accused Channi, Navjot Sidhu and home minister Sukhjinder Randhawa of conspiring with the police to book him and Majithia in different cases. 
14-12-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana man posing as employee steals trader’s car from valet parking||Ludhiana A fraudster on Sunday night tricked a trader and stole his car from the valet parking of a hotel near Ferozepur road. The victim, Amit Dua, a 30-year-old resident of the Canal View Colony, was attending a wedding at the hotel. He has since filed a complaint with the Division 5 police. Dua said that he had handed over his Hyundai Creta to a member of the hotel’s valet staff, who issued him a slip. According to him, a man posing as an employee later approached him asking for the slip during the function, saying that the valet needed to shift his vehicle to a different parking lot.“The man was wearing an identification card of valet parking staff. Trusting him I handed over the slip to him and the man offered him a new slip which I kept in my pocket,” Dua said.“After 30 minutes, I handed over the slip to valet parking staff to bring my vehicle. I was shocked when they stated that the card is fake. When I checked the parking lots my car was not there,” he added.Footage of the accused entering the wedding hall and driving away with the stolen vehicle has been captured in the CCTV cameras installed at the hotel. The police later managed to trace the vehicle to Bhamian. The accused is believed to have abandoned the car after changing its number plates. Inspector Gurpreet Singh, station house officer (SHO) at the Division 5 police station, said, “We scanned CCTV footage in which the accused was captured while driving away the car. He had handed over the parking card to the valet parking employees, who handed over the vehicle to him.” A case under section 379 (theft) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) has been lodged against the unidentified accused.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-man-posing-as-employee-steals-trader-s-car-from-valet-parking-101639427770773.html
14-12-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh property grab case: Police claim no knowledge of cop’s Canadian citizenship||The Chandigarh police on Monday said that it has no knowledge of Canadian citizenship taken by a police inspector accused in the Sector-37 property grab case. The UT administration’s public prosecutor, Ashu Mohan Punchhi, informed the high court bench of Justice Avneesh Jhingan that it does not have any record of the officer seeking clearance for the same. It was on November 23 that UT police had opposed his bail plea. They sought time to file a status report, including how the police officer got permanent residency of Canada despite being in government service. Now suspended, Rajdeep Singh is an accused in property grab case also involving former journalist Sanjeev Mahajan, realtor Manish Gupta, Satpal Dagar, brother of a UT deputy superintendent of police and Gurpreet Singh, who impersonated as the owner of the property, Rahul Mehta, to execute its sale deed in March 2019. The FIR was registered on March 2. The submission on Monday was made during the bail plea moved by Rajdeep Singh. Meanwhile, the court deferred the hearing for February 3 on his plea and another plea moved by Mahajan who has sought quashing of a second FIR registered against him in November for allegedly threatening a witness in a murder case registered in 2019. Mahajan, who is behind bars in the case, had claimed that he is a victim of vindictive attitude of police, whose senior officers have created a false story and manipulated a complainant against him.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-property-grab-case-police-claim-no-knowledge-of-cop-s-canadian-citizenship-101639427652031.html
14-12-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh Police arrest man, his two sons for assault||A man and his two sons were arrested on Monday for assaulting a Mohali resident.The accused have been identified as Sumit Khural, his brother Amit and their father Mainpal, all residents of Sunny Enclave, Zirakpur. The trio was later granted bail.They were arrested in a case registered on the complaint of Shivam Dhiman, who alleged that his brother-in-law Sumit along with his brother, father and three unidentified people attacked him on Saturday evening in Ram Darbar after he found his sister’s stolen car parked outside Sumit’s shop.As per police, Dhiman had filed a complaint at the Phase 11 police station about the stolen car, which he spotted outside shop during a work-related visit to Ram Darbar.Dhiman alleged that when he tried to record video of the parked vehicle, Sumit stepped out with his brother and started hitting his vehicle and threatening him.Later, Sumit, his brother Amit and Mainpal along with two others stopped his vehicle and attacked him. The police complaint said that the weapon-wielding group of men broke the windshield of Shivam’s car, assaulted him and his uncle and even gave them death threats.A case under Sections 323 (voluntarily causing hurt), 341 (punishment for wrongful restraint), 506 (criminal intimidation), 427 (mischief causing damage to the amount of fifty rupees) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) was registered at the Sector 31 police station against five accused on Sunday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-police-arrest-man-his-two-sons-for-assault-101639427470398.html
14-12-2021||Other||Fight for MSP remains, will not go home: Farm leader Tikait in Amritsar||Amritsar Gaining victory after a year-long agitation at the borders of Delhi in the form of repeal of the three farm laws, farmers arrived at the Golden Temple, the holiest Sikh shrine, to take blessings of the Almighty. “We have been able to secure victory with the grace of Baba Nanak,” said Rakesh Tikait, sporting a red turban, after arrival at the shrine. Farm leaders Balbir Singh Rajwal, Gurnam Singh Charuni, Harmeet Singh Qadian and Manjit Singh Rai, also got a hero’s welcome. Flowers were showered on them amid resonant chants of ‘Sat Sri Akal’ and ‘Kisan-Mazdoor Ekta-Zindabad’ slogans at the Golden Gate, the entry point to the city. Replying to a query, Tikait added, “The fight for the Minimum Support Price (MSP) has not ended yet. Now, we will fight the battle of the MSP, and we will not stay home.”In expectation of the arrival of farmers from 32 organisations, which spearheaded the agitation under the banner of the Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM), an Akhand Path (uninterrupted recitation of the holy Sikh scripture of the Guru Granth Sahib) was started in the complex of Golden Temple on Saturday. The bhog (concluding ceremony) of the Path was held on Monday. It was followed by a religious function held at Manji Sahib Diwan Hall in the shrine complex.Rajewal performed ardas at the Akal Takht, the highest Sikh temporal seat, to thank the Gurus. Farm leaders were honoured in the presence of Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (SGPC) president Harjinder Singh Dhami with ‘siropas’ (robe of honour) and by presenting them with the replica of the Golden Temple. US-based Dr Swaiman Singh, who gave free medical aid to protesters at the Singhu border, was also felicitated.Dhami, who delivered an emotional speech, said, “In Sikh history, it was Sardar Baghel Singh who had conquered Delhi. After that, these farmers have conquered the government.” “Farmers’ deeds have brought to life 300-year-old Sikh history,” Rajewal said, addressing a massive gathering at the Diwan Hall. In the ardas at the function, 700 farmers who died during the agitation, were also remembered. Some groups of farmers, including leaders, reached the shrine later on and could not attend the function; the SGPC also honoured many farm leaders from Left-leaning parties. Farm leaders did not conduct any joint press conference to disclose their future course of action, but separately pronounced that the struggle will continue. Rajewal, who visited the Jallianwala Bagh, also made it clear that the agitation had not been called off, but only suspended.
14-12-2021||Chandigarh||HC notice to UTCA secretary on contempt plea over certification course issue||The high court on Monday put Union Territory Cricket Association (UTCA), Chandigarh, secretary Desh Deepak Khanna on notice on a contempt plea moved by Shahnawaz Khan, chief executive officer (CEO) of Minerva Football Club Academy, over the issue of admission issue in a course. His lawyer, Mohammad Sartaj Khan, said that the response has been sought by December 22 by the bench of Justice HS Sidhu. However, a copy of the order, in which Jay Shah, secretary, Board of Control for Cricket in India was sought to be made a party was sought, is awaited. It was on December 7 that the high court had directed UTCA to admit Shahnawaz Khan in hybrid coaches’ certificate course. In his fresh plea, he had told court that he has not been allowed to join the course, despite him supplying the high court order on the day it was passed on December 7. The petitioner has suffered a huge educational/ experience/ financial loss due to conduct of the respondents, he had claimed. In his earlier petition on December 7, he had told court that besides being the CEO of the Mohali based football academy, he has also worked as a head coach in JP Atray cricket tournament for the 2021-2022 season. On November 25, Board of Control for Cricket in India (BCCI) advertised its Hybrid Level-1 coaches certification course starting from December 6 and he applied on the same date. His registration was confirmed through a mail, but subsequently, he made contact with UTCA to confirm his candidature but they did not respond. The course started on December 6. Acting on the plea, the court on December 7 had directed UTCA, that he be allowed to participate in the said course provisionally. However, his assessment would be subject to final decision on the present petition.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/hc-notice-to-utca-secretary-on-contempt-plea-over-certification-course-issue-101639426750531.html
14-12-2021||Chandigarh||Mohali: Punjab CM lays foundation stones for projects worth ₹100 crore||Punjab chief minister (CM) Charanjit Singh Channi on Monday laid the foundation stones for projects worth ₹100 crore in Kharar and Morinda. The CM also announced an additional ₹10 crore for the all-round development of Morinda. Laying the foundation stone of an ITI, an indoor sports hall and a football field at Tripri village in Kharar at a combined cost of Rs. 20 crore, the CM said thanked the village panchayat for donating 8 acres of land.He said the upcoming ITI would help youth hone their skills while the indoor sports hall would comprise facilities for sports such as gymnastics, basketball, volleyball and others, thus giving a huge boost to the sporting infrastructure of the area. “The ITI building will be completed by the end of January, 2022, while the indoor sports hall would see completion by August 2022,” said Channi adding the football field would be completed by April, 2022. At Morinda, the CM laid the foundation stone of 100% water supply, and sewerage, canal water supply and other development works at a cost of ₹74.32 crore, besides the new SDM office building at the cost of ₹5 crore which would come up in 2 acre area.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/mohali-punjab-cm-lays-foundation-stones-for-projects-worth-100-crore-101639426571115.html
14-12-2021||Other||Sidhu backs Manpreet critic as Congress candidate in Bathinda||Bathinda Punjab Congress president Navjot Sidhu on Monday backed Harvinder Singh Laddi, a staunch critic of finance minister Manpreet Singh Badal, as a candidate for the Bathinda Rural segment. Manpreet represents the adjoining Bathinda Urban seat.At a rally that Laddi had organised at Naruana village, Sidhu took potshots at chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi over police cane-charging unemployed teachers in Mansa last week, and the delay in disbursement of compensation to farmers whose cotton was damaged due to the pink bollworm pest attack. He added that new low sand rates announced by the state government were not reflected on ground, as mafia was still active in Punjab. District Congress leaders considered close to Manpreet stayed from their state president’s political visit.Laddi has been accusing Manpreet and his aides of interference on his (former’s) political turf. Sidhu said Laddi, who had finished third in the 2017 state polls, would be fielded as a candidate in the forthcoming polls.“He braved all political and administrative odds during the Congress-led government. I will fight back all those who created hurdles for Laddi. Being the state Congress president, I will be there for Laddi’s victory,” Sidhu added. The Congress has not announced any candidate so far.“I am aghast that the Punjab government’s grant of ₹15 crore for the development of this segment has still not been released by the district administration to the panchayats,” he added.State transport minister Amrinder Singh Raja Warring said public sympathy was with Laddi, as over the past four-and-a-half years, the leader was unable to get even an SHO or a panchayat secretary transferred in his segment of Bathinda RuralVEILED ATTACK ON CM CHANNILater at a press conference, Sidhu said the incident of thrashing teachers demanding jobs was lamentable. On Friday, a group of teachers faced police action after they raised slogans against the Congress government. After the cane-charge, CM Channi said the government would not entertain any union that tries to disrupt political functions.“Such an incident cannot be justified as the protesters did not indulge in violence. I stand by them,” Sidhu said. Quoting a newspaper report, Sidhu said nowhere in Punjab was sand available at ₹5.5 per cubic feet. “Decisions like cheap sand and low cable TV subscription fee have been announced without any policy. These are not implemented on the ground,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/sidhu-backs-manpreet-critic-as-congress-candidate-in-bathinda-101639426331436.html
14-12-2021||Chandigarh||UGC pay scales row: Teachers’ protest may affect PU semester exams schedule||The ongoing protest by university and college teachers in Chandigarh and Punjab over non-implementation of revised UGC pay scales by the Punjab government as per the Seventh Pay Commission recommendations may hit the semester exams schedule of Panjab University (PU) if it continues.PU already postponed the practical exams of BSc agriculture, which was to be held from Tuesday and uncertainty also looms over the theory exams that are scheduled to begin from December 22 onwards. Teachers are protesting as part of a statewide “education bandh” under the banner of Punjab Federation of University and College Teachers Federation (PFUCTO).The theory exams of undergraduate courses will start from December 22 and for PG courses from December 27. A varsity official, on condition of anonymity, said that if the protest of teachers continues then they will have to postpone the semester exams.Two demands of teachersLast month, PFUCTO had announced that teachers across five universities, 48 colleges and 145 aided colleges will go on an indefinite strike from December 1 and suspend all academic activities. The teachers are demanding the immediate implementation of revised UGC Pay Scales and withdrawal of the Punjab Government’s decision to delink the scales of teachers of universities and colleges from UGC.President of Panjab University Teachers Association (PUTA) Mritunjay Kumar, said, “We do not wish to disrupt the exam schedule. We are not only fighting for the pay commission, but larger issues, which involve the future of our students as well. Also, these are the legitimate demands of the teachers.”PU’s controller of examination Jagat Bhushan, said, “We had received requests from colleges to postpone the practical exam, as they are facing difficulty in conducting it due to the ongoing strike of teachers. Regarding the theory exams, the university will discuss the matter in coming days and decide accordingly.”General secretary of PFUCTO, Jagwant Singh, said, “We are extremely concerned that because of the delay in resolving the issue, GNDU and Punjabi university had to postpone their exams and PU may also have to postpone the exams. Government needs to take the immediate steps to resolve the issue.”Memorandum submitted to Punjab governor’s ADCAs a part of statewide protest, PU and college teachers on Monday assembled at Sri Guru Gobind Singh College in Sector 26 on Monday and tried to march towards the governor’s house. But, they were stopped by the police at the gate of college. However, a delegation of teachers submitted a memorandum of their demands to the ADC of the governor. PUTA on Monday also submitted a petition to president of Indian National Congress, Sonia Gandhi, regarding the pending implementation of revised UGC pay scales.
14-12-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh MC polls: Political slugfest ensues over decision to not use VVPAT||A political slugfest has started over the state election commission (SEC) decision to not use voter verifiable paper audit trail (VVPAT) along with the electronic voting machines (EVM) in the Chandigarh municipal corporation elections.VVPAT are intended to be an independent verification system for voting machines, designed to allow voters to verify that their vote was cast correctly. The Chandigarh Congress has fired a letter to the SEC and a party’s delegation also met the SEC officials here on Monday complaining about the non-use of VVPAT. In the letter, Subhash Chawla, president, Chandigarh Territorial Congress Committee, said, “Denial of use of VVPAT machines with EVM and also the proposed use of outdated M-2 EVMs for voting on December 24 is causing anxiety among the Chandigarh voters.”“SEC allowed the use of VVPAT in local body elections in West Bengal, scheduled for December 19 but surprisingly ordered the use of EVMs without VVPAT here. We have demanded that VVPAT must be used with the EVM to ensure free and fair elections.”AAP convener in Chandigarh, Prem Garg, said, “VVPAT should be used in elections. The SEC should also ensure there is no favouritism in its conduct and total transparency.”BJP meanwhile, termed the Congress’ letter as admission of its “defeat in the MC election”, and asked the Congress to let the “independent constitutional body (SEC)” do its work.BJP state president Arun Sood said, “All these baseless allegations only show that the Congress has accepted defeat in the MC polls even before a single vote has been cast. EVM and election commission are all right when the Congress wins but when BJP wins, it is the fault of EVM and election commission. Congress has nothing to show for its 15-year rule in the city; so now, it is indulging in such shameful tactics.”Stating that Congress can evaluate, examine and inspect the machines, Sood, said, “The election commission allows all parties to check machines thoroughly. If the Congress has doubts it can take its experts and get the machines examined.”On the demand of VVPAT with EVM, Sood, said, “It is for the election commission to decide. BJP goes by the election commission directions and doesn’t interfere in its working.”Confirming that VVPAT will not be used with the EVMs, K Bhandari, officer on special duty (OSD) to the state election commissioner, said, “The decision not to use the VVPAT was taken in a meeting of state election commissions in 2019. In the MC bypoll recently held in Delhi, VVPAT was not used.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-mc-polls-political-slugfest-ensues-over-decision-to-not-use-vvpat-101639425850875.html
14-12-2021||Other||Power tariff hike unlikely in Punjab; subsidy burden on govt may touch ₹20,000 cr||Patiala With elections just months away, there is unlikely to be any increase in power tariff in the state, with the Punjab State Power Corporation Limited (PSPCL) filing its tariff petition for 2022-23 with a projected shortfall of only ₹125 crore that it needs to raise through this route. The shortfall of previous years that it has been carrying forward is ₹1,611 crore, taking the total to ₹1,912 crore. The annual revenue requirement (ARR) has been worked out at ₹36,484 crore and revenue receipt on the basis of the present approved tariff has been worked out as ₹36,702 crore. With the regulator, the Punjab State Electricity Regulatory Commission (PSERC) always, as a matter of convention, reducing the PSPCL’s expenditure, there may not be any power tariff hike, experts say. Due to the recent poll sops, the subsidy burden on the state government, however, for 2021-22 is estimated at ₹12,245 crore and for 2022-23, at ₹13,929 crore. Initially, the figure for 2021-22 was ₹10,621 crore but the current announcements by government have resulted in an additional burden of ₹1,624 crore.Last year, the total subsidy, including arrears, was ₹17,796 crore and the proportionate dues in November stood at ₹11,786 crore. The default amount on November 15 is ₹4,120 crore. The pending subsidy for the year was ₹10,130 crore. “Overall, the subsidy bill for next year will be whopping, which once clubbed with the arrears of previous years will touch ₹20,000 crore,” said an official, adding that latest ARR had been framed to seek minimum hike. In the ARR, the major expenditure is for power purchase, with ₹24,910 crore being kept for it, including interstate transmission charges. The other major expenditure is of employee salary and pension at ₹5,552 crore.PSPCL has also not included any payment to employees against pay revisions. If the pay commission is implemented, the total arrears will be between ₹3,000 crore and ₹3,500 crore. Of this, around ₹1,000 crore are payable in 2021-22 and the balance over the next few years. On its part, the PSERC has initiated the process of finalising the ARR and has started the process of hearing public objections on the PSPCL’s petition.
14-12-2021||Lucknow||Covid vax drive: To boost coverage, unvaxxed to be served call-out notices||The district administration is all set to serve call-out notices to all those who are yet to turn up for the Covid-19 vaccination. Besides, the administration has also roped in NGOs and the health department in the move aimed to boost the ongoing Covid-19 vaccination exercise and achieve 100% vaccination in the district.Also, the administration has directed the health department to conduct street plays and motivation drives to dispel the myths related to the Covid-19 vaccines. “Covid-19 vaccination is going on a war-footing, but there are still many who are not vaccinated. Hence, we are going to give call-out notices (Bulava parchies) to such people in order to reach out to them and convince them for the vaccination,” said Abhishek Prakash, district magistrate, while addressing a recent meeting that was called to ease out the issues affecting ongoing Covid vaccination drive.The DM further said they would be taking the help of the NGOs and government departments and will chalk out the details of the people who have not taken the Covid vaccine jab. As per the records of district administration, as of now, around 89% of the eligible people have been vaccinated, while around 50% have received the second dose.The move aims to boost the ongoing vaccination exercise.The administration has also chalked out a special micro-plan to reach out to the people. As a part of the micro-plan, an administrative official said they would also be setting up on the spot vaccination camps at the places of gathering. These camps would cover all the places, including shopping malls, multi-storey buildings, slum areas, small towns, religious places, hotels, restaurants, commercial complexes, metro stations, labour markets etc.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/covid-vax-drive-to-boost-coverage-unvaxxed-to-be-served-call-out-notices-101639425431457.html
14-12-2021||Other||SAD 100th anniversary: 5-time Punjab CM Badal Sr to address party rally in Moga today||Chandigarh Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) patriarch and five-time Punjab chief Parkash Singh Badal will address a rally in Moga on Tuesday to commemorate the party’s 100th anniversary. The party was formed on December 14, 1920, and had completed 100 years last year, but did not mark it in view of the farm stir.Party president Sukhbir Singh Badal and Bahujan Samaj party (BSP) vice-president Satish Mishra will also address the gathering. Prominent Akali leaders, including Rajya Sabha MP Naresh Gujral, will be present on the occasion. The rally is seen as a major event, where the party will connect with its cadre and the electorate ahead of the 2022 polls.The SAD is expecting a good turnout at the rally in Killi Chahalan village on the Ludhiana-Moga road. “The rally will begin the countdown of the Congress government which has betrayed every section of society and reneged on promises made to the people,” claimed Sukhbir, who visited the rally site. A photo exhibition has also been planned at the rally site to showcase the history of the party. It will exhibit the involvement of party in morchas and people-centric programmes, it had undertaken during its governments in the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/sad-100th-anniversary-5-time-punjab-cm-badal-sr-to-address-party-rally-in-moga-today-101639425430212.html
14-12-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: Vacant plots used as dumps in ward 34||Vacant plots everywhere, but not an inch to park. Residents of ward 34 of Chandigarh rue that there are several vacant plots in the area, which can be used to solve the parking woes here, but most of these have turned into garbage dumps, much to their chagrin. The ward includes Sector 45 (excluding Burail) and Sector 46. Sector 45 and Burail were earlier part of Ward 14, while Sector 46 was included in Ward 21, along with Sector 32. Residents say the ward lacks basic civic infrastructure and cleanliness is a far cry. The ever-increasing population of stray dogs makes them wary of stepping out. Vikram Sharma, a resident of Sector 45, says, “Door-to-door garbage collection is irregular and sweepers never seem to clean the roads or market areas.” Kedarnath Sharma, president of the Sector 46-D residents’ welfare association (RWA), says, “Though MC claims sterilisation of stray dogs is being carried out, the canine population seems to be increasing day by day. Every month, several cases of dog bites are reported in our area. It is due to the garbage dumps here that the stray dogs stay put here.”Stating that most neighbourhood parks lack basic facilities such as lighting, drinking water provision and clean washrooms, residents ask where the taxes collected by MC are going. Jasvinder Singh, a resident of Sector 46, says, “We are made to pay for garbage collection even when we don’t get the facility. Sweepers rarely clean the upper floors and due to irregular garbage collection, some people dump the garbage on vacant plots.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-vacant-plots-used-as-dumps-in-ward-34-101639425371500.html
14-12-2021||Lucknow||13-month movement is training for farmers: Tikait||MEERUT Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) leader Rakesh Tikait described the 13- month movement against the contentious farm laws as training for the farmers, which could be utilised by them in future. “The movement, which continued because of the support of people and farmers, has ended. But the battle for seeking rights of farmers will continue. The issues of MSP, increase in sugarcane price, payment of sugarcane dues and high electricity tariff will be raised for the benefit of farmers,” he said while addressing a mahapanchayat in Kairana on Sunday. Tikait said: “There was neither defeat nor victory in the movement. We accepted what farm leaders decided. The government has time till the announcement of model code of conduct before Assembly elections and they should execute proposals given to farmers.” “Nobody can compel people to vote in favour of a party or government,” he emphasized. The BKU leader cautioned people not to be swayed away by the government’s attempt to shift their attention to the alleged issue of exodus from Kairana town of Shamli district during the 2013 Muzaffarnagar riots.Tikait denied that there was an issue of “palayan” (exodus), saying that people go to other towns in search of jobs and business and this couldn’t be categorised as exodus. “The government should provide people better jobs and business opportunities to stop them from going away,” he added. Tikait also suggested that the government should include those people in the proposed committee on MSP who genuinely think about farmers and not professors who are “associated with colleges of capitalists.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/13month-movement-is-training-for-farmers-tikait-101639424830277.html
14-12-2021||Other||{2015 sacrilege cases} Dera Sacha Sauda vice-chief submits answers to 125 SIT questions||Faridkot Sirsa-based Dera Sacha Sauda vice-chairperson Prithvi Raj Nain on Monday submitted replies to 125 questions that the Punjab police special investigation team (SIT) had asked him in connection with the 2015 sacrilege cases. On Friday, the SIT had visited dera headquarters in Sirsa district of Haryana and questioned Nain for over four hours. After answering 73 questions, Nain had requested that the questioning be stopped, citing health issues. The questioning was then stopped and the probe team gave him a questionnaire, having 125 queries with directions to submit his answers within 48 hours. On Monday evening, Nain submitted his answers at SIT head and Ludhiana range IGP Surinder Pal Singh Parmar’s office through his counsel. Parmar said further action will be decided after going through the document. The sect’s administration wing chairperson Vipassana Insan and Nain were summoned to appear at the IGP’s Ludhiana office on November 16, 26 and December 3 in connection with an FIR lodged at the Bajakhana police station in Faridkot district on June 2, 2015. The case was registered after a bir (copy) of Guru Granth Sahib was stolen from a gurdwara at Burj Jawahar Singh Wala village of the district. After the two were summoned last month, Vipassana failed to respond, while Nain expressed helplessness in appearing before the SIT citing ill-health. On December 6, the SIT even visited the dera headquarters to question them but failed to trace them. While the SIT has questioned Nain, the probe team could not trace Vipassana. The two are also facing allegations of orchestrating violence in Panchkula in August 2017. 
14-12-2021||Lucknow||International travellers to be tested before entering Lucknow terminal building||Following the instructions of the director-general of civil aviation, Covid-19 testing has begun off the tarmac, at international Terminal-1 of the Chaudhary Charan Singh International Airport. The airport authorities have strengthened infrastructure to test international passengers as soon as they disembark from the aircraft, for which they have erected tents for the passengers to sit in and wait their turn.Chief airport officer SC Hota inspected the checkpoints, help desks and waiting area set up at International Terminal-1 on Monday. He expressed satisfaction over the preparations. He said, “All necessary measures have been taken to start testing of patients as soon as they alight from the flight. The waiting area can accommodate 50 passengers at CCSI airport, and there are four registration counters, four sampling booths, including 95 Rapid PCR machines.“The arrival area is equipped with adequate washrooms, food and beverage facilities, Wi-Fi and foreign exchange service. Dedicated passenger service executives will be available in this area to assist passengers. The tests are being completed quickly to minimise waiting time. In addition, passengers also have the facility to choose between Rapid PCR and normal RT-PCR.“The current time taken from sample collection to providing reports stands at 30 minutes for Rapid PCR and 5-6 hours for RT-PCR, while the current wait time per passenger from start to finish, is taking from 45 to 90 minutes. Passengers coming from high-risk countries – Europe, South Africa, Botswana, China, Mauritius, New Zealand, Zimbabwe, Singapore, Hong Kong, Israel – will not be allowed to leave the terminal building until their test report comes in negative. In addition to the registration counters, passengers can also register for their test using QR codes displayed at strategic locations in the arrival corridor.“Sanitisation and deep cleaning is being conducted at regular intervals of the areas where testing is performed and the passenger waiting area.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/international-travellers-to-be-tested-before-entering-lucknow-terminal-building-101639424291204.html
14-12-2021||Lucknow||Agitating pharmacists may lose salary for work boycott||On the fifth consecutive day of work boycott by over 7000 pharmacists in Uttar Pradesh, the director-general medical and health has said that the agitating pharmacists could lose salary for their work boycott. The D-G health has written to the agitating pharmacists to call off their strike as it was troubling patients across state.The letter was sent to all heads of health facilities in the state on Monday. “The ESMA has been imposed in the state that makes the strike a punishable offence and also strike of any kind can hamper efforts to check the spread of Covid-19 infection. Hence, all pharmacists under your health facility should be asked to work as routine,” read the letter from the D-G, medical and health, Dr Ved Vrat Singh.“Pharmacists holding work boycott shall be liable to face no-work no-pay by calculating hours of protest every day. So in four days of two hours of work boycott they will lose salary for one day,” said Dr Ved Vrat.The agitating pharmacists said they shall continue their stir. “Instead of writing such a letter, the department or the officials could have told us the status of our pending demands. We would have called off the work boycott ourselves,” said Sunil Yadav, executive president, Diploma Pharmacist Association, Uttar Pradesh, which has over 7,500 members.Pharmacists are demanding wage revision, right to prescribe drugs, filling up of vacancies, creation of new posts and standardisation of their work. Posts of pharmacists are less against the guidelines and at some places there are no pharmacists deployed, said Yadav.“Pharmacists have a significant role in hospitals right from getting the correct dose of drugs administered to injecting certain medicine as per requirement to assisting in minor procedures,” said Dr Abhishek Shukla, secretary-general, Association of International Doctors.Yadav said, “We will not come under pressure by the ESMA letter. We shall go for an indefinite strike from December 20 if our demands are not addressed.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/agitating-pharmacists-may-lose-salary-for-work-boycott-101639423810282.html
14-12-2021||Chandigarh||Year on, toll plazas in Haryana resume operations at revised rates||Almost a year after the toll plazas located on highways in Haryana resumed operations on Monday with revised rates.The toll companies resumed operations after the farmers protesting under the banner of Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM), an umbrella body of farm unions, ended their protest.As per reports collected from different parts of the state, the toll plazas were reopened with revised rates in charges for heavy vehicle including buses, trucks, and multi-axle vehicles.Last year, when operations were stopped at the toll plazas, ₹440 was charge from buses or trucks for one-way trip, while ₹660 was charged for a return trip or for multiple journeys within 24 hours. Now, ₹445 is being charged for single journey, and ₹665 for return trip within 24 hours, said a toll official.The charges for multi-axle vehicles have also been increased from the earlier ₹705 to ₹715 for single trip and from ₹1,060 to ₹1,070 for multiple journeys within 24 hours.The rates of monthly passes have also been increased for different categories of vehicles. However, there are no changes in the charges for light vehicles including cars, jeeps and vans. Officials said the rates have not revised due to the agitation and are based on the adjustment of annual wholesale price index.Hundreds of farmers, led by local BKU (Charuni) leader Jagdip Aulakh, gathered at the Bastara toll plaza at NH-44 on Monday morning as the farmers reopened the toll services after a brief ribbon-cutting ceremony.Workers and security staff also returned to their jobs after a year as most toll companies had sacked their employees after the farmers had opened the toll gates allowing free passage of vehicles. “It’s almost after a year that the toll services are being resumed and we have rejoined duty. It is good that the agitation has ended,” said a toll collector at the Bastara toll plaza.The exact figures of losses to the toll plazas due to the farmers’ agitation are still not available but officials said the concessionaire of Bastara toll plaza on NH-44 is among the biggest sufferer as the National Highway Authority of India (NHAI) had suffered a loss of around ₹1.20 crore per day due to free movement of vehicles from this toll plaza. Officials of the toll plaza said per day collection of Bastara toll remains around ₹1.20-1.30 crore as around 40,000 to 50,000 vehicle cross the toll plaza every day.Nitish Malik, manager at the Dighal toll plaza on Rohtak-Jhajjar road, said the revised toll fee for cars is ₹45 (an increase of ₹5), buses and trucks is ₹160 ( ₹5 hike), multi-axle is ₹250 ( ₹10 hike) and oversize vehicles is ₹305 (a hike of ₹15) on one side.“We have taken control of the toll plazas and these will become operational from December 15. Those not equipped with fast-tag will have to pay double the amount,” he added.Similarly, the Shambhu toll plaza on Haryana-Punjab border resumed services after more than a year on Monday. Toll manager Arvind Chauhan said the traffic is moving smoothly but there are occasional snags during operations.At Yamunanagar’s Milk Majra toll plaza, the services are expected to resume from Tuesday as the manager of the toll, Lokender Sharma, said they are yet to receive an official letter from their circle office and cleaning of toll apparatus is underway.Officials said the toll fee of commercial vehicles of all categories have been raised as per yearly increase norms, while there has been change in fare of private vehicles. According to this, the light commercial vehicles (LCV) will have to pay ₹5 extra and heavy trucks ₹10 more, they added.(With inputs from Rohtak and Ambala correspondents)
14-12-2021||Chandigarh||Tikait, other farm leaders to attend agitation’s ‘Sampan Samaroh’ at Jind, Hisar today||Farmers camping at Delhi borders and other protest sites are clearing out the venues since Saturday after the Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM) announced to suspend the farm agitation but farmers at Jind’s Khatkar toll plaza and Hisar’s Ramayana toll plaza are still at the sites and will formally clear the areas on Tuesday after holding ending ceremonies.Khatkar toll plaza committee in-charge Satbir Pehlwan, who also heads the Khera Khap, said senior SKM leaders including Rakesh Tikait, Balbir Singh Rajewal, Joginder Singh Ugrahan, Gurnam Singh Charuni and representatives of various khaps will take part in the ‘Sampan Samaroh’ on Tuesday to formally lift the dharna.“After the Republic Day violence, Tikait had held his first mahapanchayat in Jind’s Kandela village in February this year and the last ceremony after the historic win was held at Khatkar toll plaza in Jind. Farmers from Jind remained at the forefront of the agitation – from clearing paths for Punjab farmers through Khanauri border last year to blocking roads after Tikait cried at the Ghazipur border,” Pehlwan added.Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) youth state president Ravi Azad said the contributions of Haryana and Punjab farmers cannot be expressed in words.“On one call, the Jind and Hisar farmers protested against the BJP-JJP leaders and blocked roads after every brutal incident. We have not ended the protest but changed the way of the protest. If our demands, on which the Union government has agreed upon, won’t be implemented, we will bounce back with a bigger agitation across country,” he added.The Jat-dominated Hisar and Jind districts had emerged as the epiccentre of the farmers’ agitation in Haryana after the Republic Day violence at Red Fort. When the protest began in November last year, Kuruksehtra, under the leadership of BKU leader Gurnam Singh Charuni, was at its core in Haryana, with massive support from neighbouring districts of Yamunanagar, Ambala and Karnal.Later, the agitation’s centre shifted to Jind where many mahapanchayats were held, besides overwhelming support from khaps.And after that, Hisar became the core of the agitation with farmers protesting visits of Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar, his deputy Dushyant Chautala, deputy speaker Ranbir Gangwa, BJP state chief OP Dhankar and others.Dr Anant Ram, a retired political science professor from Bhiwani, said people of Hisar, Jind and Bhiwani had led the state in the farmers’ agitations.“The farmers had uprooted governments of Bhajan Lal, Bansi Lal and OP Chautala after farmers’ death during protests at Kadma (Bhiwani), Mandyali village in Mahendragarh district (on Bhiwani border) and Kandela in Jind, respectively. The farmers of these districts have a history of standing up against governments and holding agitation until their demands are met,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/tikait-other-farm-leaders-to-attend-agitation-s-sampan-samaroh-at-jind-hisar-today-101639423270341.html
14-12-2021||Chandigarh||Political pressure forced govt to repeal farm laws: Yogendra Yadav||Farm leader Yogendra Yadav on Monday said political pressure forced the Prime Minister to repeal the three contentious agriculture laws.“Had they worried about the farmers and the Constitution, they would have repealed these anti-farmer laws a long ago. It is clear that the laws were repealed due to political pressure and the Uttar Pradesh elections forced the government for a course correction,” said Yadav during his visit to Karnal.“They are only concerned about the vote bank, elections and their chair. Nothing else,” he said without naming anybody.He said farmers have won the battle by forcing the government to repeal the three laws but the fight for guaranteed minimum support price (MSP) is not over yet and the Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM) will keep a close eye on every step of the government in the future.Reacting to SKM member Gurnam Singh Chaurni’s announcement to field candidates in the Punjab elections, Yadav said everybody is free to fight elections but nobody will be allowed to use the SKM banner for polls.“Unity and formation of SKM are the two major achievements of this farm agitation and from now on, governments will not take a decision about farmers without consulting them,” he said.He requested the Haryana government to fulfil its commitment of withdrawing cases registered against farmers and give compensation to families of the famers who died during the agitation, without any further delay.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/political-pressure-forced-govt-to-repeal-farm-laws-yogendra-yadav-101639423090330.html
14-12-2021||Chandigarh||Haryana’s Gurugram, Ambala top in administering both Covid vaccine doses, Nuh, Hisar lag behind||Haryana has administered more than three crore doses of coronavirus vaccine to its population, including about 1.89 crore first doses. As per the vaccination data, the state health department has inoculated 92% of the state’s 2.04 crore eligible population with the first dose and 55% eligible population with both the doses.Gurugram, Faridabad, Panchkula and Ambala are the top four districts having achieved more than 100% administration of the first dose. Three districts, Gurugram (96% vaccination), Ambala (88%) and Charkhi Dadri (81%) are the top three ranked districts in terms of administering both the doses.The laggard districts in terms of administering the first dose are Nuh (63% vaccination), Jind (75%), Palwal and Hisar (78% each).Nuh (13%), Hisar (37%) and Fatehabad (38%) figured as the bottom three districts in terms of administering both the doses.Additional chief secretary (ACS), health, Rajeev Arora said emphasis is being laid on stepping up administration of the second dose in a campaign mode.“The Haryana chief minister has directed the deputy commissioners that the entire eligible population should be inoculated with the second dose by December 31,” Arora said.Active infection count reaches 219Data shows that the active case count on Monday was 219, with 10 districts reporting zero active infections. Only Gurugram (99), Faridabad (41) and Panchkula (33) have active cases in double digits.Statistics show that while the number of infections reported from 22 districts has gone up from 108 to 200 in five weeks from November 8 to December 12, experts said the increase is not alarming.“Statistically speaking, five districts have reported a negative growth rate in the last two week. Gurugram and Faridabad districts which have the maximum active case count have registered a growth of 31% and 28%, respectively, in the last two weeks,” said a health official.
14-12-2021||Mumbai||Only 40 out of 920 minors enrolled for paediatric vaccine trial at Nair Hospital||Mumbai The civic-run BYL Nair Hospital has enrolled 40 children in the age group of two to 17 years for the clinical trial of Covovax, a Covid-19 vaccine developed by American biotechnology firm Novavax and produced by the Serum Institute of India. While the trial aims to enroll a total of 920 candidates, hospital authorities said that it has been struggling to get paediatric volunteers. “We started in mid-October and have managed to recruit only 40 candidates till now,” said Dr Ramesh Bharmal, dean of BYL Nair Hospital, the only site in Mumbai conducting the paediatric trial. As per the Clinical Trials Registry- India (CTRI) as many as 23 sites across the country are trying Covovax on adults as well as paediatric cohorts. “The paediatric trial has been progressing very slowly. Largely, there is reluctance among parents to enroll their children. We get many inquiries, but they don’t convert into enrollments,” said Dr Bharmal. A seroprevalence survey carried out in Mumbai has shown that more than 50% of children had antibodies against Covid-19 infection. Children with a known history of Covid-19 or the presence of antibodies cannot be enrolled for the study. “Many candidates become ineligible because of existing antibodies,” said Dr Bharmal adding that some parents willing to enroll their children have been demanding an assurance that they will be given the real vaccine and not a placebo, which is not possible in a trial. “It’s a blind trial and even we don’t know who receives the real vaccine and who receives a placebo till we unblind it. We counsel the parents, but it’s hard to convince them,” he said. The hospital had received a poor response for the Zydus Cadila’s Zycov-D vaccine candidate for children and had culminated it only after 12 participants. Paediatric vaccine trials have been generating poor responses across the country. Covovax trial being conducted at the PGI Chandigarh has also been struggling to get candidates. “It’s obvious that parents are reluctant to let their children be a part of an experiment,” said paediatrician Dr Bakul Parekh, who is a member of the state’s paediatric Covid-19 task force. “Communication is therefore crucial. We need these trials to gather evidence, and to be able to cope with the Sars-CoV-2 virus in the coming days,” he said. The state’s task force has already given a green signal to start paediatric vaccinations in a staggered manner, rolling out the initial doses for children in the age group of 12 to 17 with comorbidities and then to children in all age groups with comorbidities. “Once the vaccines are available abundantly, we can roll them out for all children, similar to the adult vaccination drive,” said Dr Parekh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/only-40-out-of-920-minors-enrolled-for-paediatric-vaccine-trial-at-nair-hospital-101639422429967.html
14-12-2021||Other||Gurugram reports Covid death after 24 days||A 73-year-old woman, who tested positive for Covid-19 a week ago, died in Gurugram on Monday. She suffered from comorbidities and was under treatment at a private hospital, said officials.The previous Covid-19 death in the district was reported on November 19. “The 73-year-old woman was administered both doses of a Covid-19 vaccine... She had several comorbidities. She was suffering from cardiac ailments, hypertension and chronic obstructive pulmonary diseases (COPD),” said Dr Virender Yadav, chief medical officer (CMO) for Gurugram.In November, two Covid-19 deaths were reported in the district. A 75-year-old woman died of the virus on November 19, and a 71-year-old man on November 15. According to the official figures, Gurugram reported nine fresh cases of Covid-19 and 14 recoveries on Monday. With this, the district has a total of 98 active Covid-19 cases, of which 90 patients are in home isolation and eight are hospitalised.The state has been witnessing a slight increase in the number of Covid-19 cases in the past few days. With 19 cases reported on December 2, the city saw the highest number of Covid-19 cases in a single day in the past five months. So far, more than 1.81 million cases of Covid-19 have been reported in Gurugram, and the total death tally stands at 926, as of Monday. Of these, 610 patients suffered from comorbidities. Meanwhile, 9,318 people were administered Covid-19 vaccines on Monday, with 2,588 people being administered the first dose and 6,730 the second dose. More than 4.02 million people have been vaccinated in Gurugram till date. The district health department is trying to achieve a 100% double dose vaccination by the end of this month, according to the officials. The coverage now stands almost 96%.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/gurugram-reports-covid-death-after-24-days-101639422071478.html
14-12-2021||Noida||2 killed, two more hurt as car rams into truck on Yamuna Expressway||Two people were killed and two others injured after the car they were travelling in rammed into a truck in Jewar on the Yamuna Expressway on Monday morning, said police.According to police, the incident occurred around 7.40 am on Monday when an Alto car hit a moving truck on the expressway. The deceased have been identified as 26-year old Gaurav (identified by his first name), who was driving the car and 19-year-old Luvkush (identified by his first name), both residents of Budh Vihar colony in Delhi. The two others injured have been identified as Gaurav’s mother Lata (identified by her first name) and his brother Kunal (identified by his first name). Police said it seems Gaurav allegedly fell asleep while driving and lost control of the car, which rammed into the truck. “The family was on their way to Mathura from Delhi via the Yamuna Expressway. While the bodies of the deceased have been sent for post mortem, the other two victims are being treated at a private hospital in Jewar and are stable,” said Umesh Bahadur, station house officer of Jewar police station. The SHO added the truck driver is on the run; his vehicle is under police custody. A case under sections 279 (rash driving or riding on a public way) and 304A (causing death by negligence) of the IPC has been registered against the truck driver.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/2-killed-two-more-hurt-as-car-rams-into-truck-on-yamuna-expressway-101639422070053.html
14-12-2021||Mumbai||Omicron positive Tanzania returnee tests negative||Mumbai: A 40-years old Dharavi resident, who was found Omicron positive after returning from Tanzania on December 10 was tested negative on Monday morning.He is the fourth person in Mumbai who tested negative for Covid-19 after testing positive with the Omicron variant. Since the last two weeks, a total of five Omicron positive patients were admitted to the civic hospital out of which, four have turned negative and three have been discharged, according to civic officials. The Dharavi patient has not been discharged yet since he will be monitored further, officials said.Dr Balkrishna Adsul, dean of Seven Hills hospital where the Omicron patients are undergoing treatment said that after a patient is admitted an RT-PCR test is conducted after every seven days depending on the symptoms to check if he is still positive or not. The patient from Dharavi landed in Mumbai on December 4. He was shifted to Seven Hills hospital after he was found Covid positive. Further tests confirmed that he was infected with the Omicron variant. “As per routine procedure, the patient undertook his RT-PCR test, following which the report came out to be negative. However, we haven’t discharged him yet,” said Dr Adsul. He also added the swab samples of the fifth patient who have a travel history to Namibia was sent for examination on Monday. “So far, we have admitted 54 patients as a precautionary measure these include the close contacts of those who have been tested positive of the risky variant. Out of the total patients, more than 99% of the closed contacts turned out to be negative,” he said. Dr Mangla Gomare, the executive health officer in the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) said so far no patient has tested positive for the Omicron twice. “As per our preliminary observation the positivity lasts for less than a week, after one week, the patient compulsorily needs to undertake the test. But so far nobody is positive more than once,” said Gomare.Dr Gautam Bhansali from Bombay Hospital, which has got permission for treating Omicron positive patients in Mumbai said that at present there is a patient undergoing treatment in his hospital who has a travel history to Paris. “The report of genome sequencing for this patient is set to arrive on Tuesday evening. Till now we have discharged three patients from our hospitals having a history of Dubai and Australia after their genome sequencing report came to be negative,” said Bhansali.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/omicron-positive-tanzania-returnee-tests-negative-101639422012325.html
14-12-2021||Noida||8 Covid cases reported in Noida, five are international passengers||The district health department on Sunday identified the first five Covid positive international travellers, who have been put in isolation at the Noida Covid Hospital in Sector 39. A total of eight fresh cases, including that of the five travellers,were reported on Monday,taking the tally of active cases in the city to 24.The travellers included a man and wife in their 30s, along with their son aged five, who returned from the United Kingdom. Two others were a woman in her 30s and her five-year-old daughter, who returned from Singapore. Both families were brought to the hospital by the rapid response team (RRT) around 7pm on Sunday. However, soon after admission, the mother-daughter duo, who arrived from Singapore, fled the hospital as they “felt uncomfortable”. Sources in the know of the matter said the incident sparked panic in the hospital administration and the health department. A police team in PPE kits was sent to the housing society in Sector 137 at the address provided by the family. However, the woman and her daughter had not reached home. Sources said that the police team found the woman’s parents at the given address and informed them that legal action would be taken against her for breaking Covid protocols if she did not return to the hospital. The mother-daughter duo finally returned to the Noida Covid Hospital around 3am on Monday.“All five patients are now in hospital and are being monitored. Their samples have been sent to National Centre for Disease Control in New Delhi for genome sequencing to find the variant of the virus. Meanwhile, we are also tracing their contacts. We hope that people continue to behave as per law and trust the healthcare system,” said Dr Sunil Sharma, chief medical officer, Gautam Budh Nagar.Health officials are still unsure of where the patients had gone and how many people they came in contact with. District magistrate Suhas L Y said the situation is being monitored and all private hospitals have also been alerted.“All five patients are doing fine and are mostly asymptomatic. One of the children had mild fever and has been given paracetamol. Paediatric consultation of both children has also been done,” said Dr Tritya Saxena, medical superintendent, Noida Covid Hospital.Doctors informed that of the eight cases reported on Monday, the five travellers are in isolation at the hospital while the remaining three are in home isolation. Of the three residents who tested positive, two are contacts of previously identified Covid patients. The third patient is a 45-year-old man, who came to India from the USA on November 20, before international travellers were being monitored and screened for Covid-19. He underwent a Covid test recently--as he was planning to return to the US--which confirmed his infection on Monday. He is currently in home isolation. Since (when), a total of 4,729 travellers have come to Noida , 1,101 of whom are from ‘at-risk’ nations. Of the 1,101 travellers who came from at-risk nations, the district health department has tested 187 of them for Covid-19. Health officials said finding the travellers is becoming increasingly difficult as the contact details and addresses provided by many are incorrect.According to the state’s Covid data on Monday, Noida has the highest number of fresh cases with the second highest active cases (24). Lucknow has the maximum active cases (29) in the state while Ghaziabad has 20 active cases. One Covid death in Noida after two months The district administration said on Monday that a 74-year-old man from Sector 24 died of Covid-19 at the Noida Covid Hospital on December 10. Officials said the patient had multiple comorbidities, such as diabetes, hypertension, chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD)and coronary heart disease. The man visited ESIC hospital in Sector 62 after his COPD and heart-related symptoms aggravated. He was referred to Prakash hospital, where he was screened for Covid-19 before admission and tested positive. He was then taken to Noida Covid Hospital on December 6. After four days in the ICU, he died on December 10. This is the first fatality in the district after two months, that has taken the death toll to 468. The last death was reported on October 14, when an elderly woman succumbed to Covid-19. Dr Sunil Sharma, chief medical officer, Noida, said, “The patient was already very sick when he came to the hospital. He was aged, had multiple comorbidities and was admitted to the ICU directly. We had reported about his death on the same day he died.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/8-covid-cases-reported-in-noida-five-are-international-passengers-101639421829945.html
14-12-2021||Gurugram||Gurugram Muslims to approach Supreme Court against namaz vigilantes in Gurugram||The Gurgaon Muslim Council on Monday said that they are preparing a petition to be filed in the Supreme Court “this week” against the vigilantism and hate crimes by right-wing Hindu outfits who have been opposing the Friday namaz in open spaces in the city.Hindu outfits said they will file a counter petition, if the Muslims approach the apex court.Altaf Ahmad, spokesperson for the council, said, “We are approaching the apex court against the vigilantism and hate crime that is being witnessed every Friday.”A delegation of the council went to meet the Guruguram deputy commissioner Yash Garg, but when they couldn’t meet him, they said that their next course of action would be approach the apex court and seek its intervention for getting spaces in Gurugram to establish mosques, Ahmad said.Deepak Saharan, deputy commissioner of police (West), said the council members came to meet him as well, and asked him about allocation of open spaces for offering namaz coming Friday. “I have no idea since it will be decided by the district administration, so I asked them to meet the deputy commissioner, and get clarity regarding the sites,” he said.Deputy commissioner Garg could not be reached for a comment despite repeated attempts.The protest against Friday namaz in open public spaces has been taking place in Gurugram for the last three years. In 2018, the administration designated 37 sites for Muslims to perform the Friday prayers. However, in November this year, the number of sites was cut down to 20 after members of the right-wing outfits continued to protest and disrupt prayers.However, these sites were also cancelled after Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar on Friday said that offering namaz in public places cannot be tolerated. The chief minister directed that the administration should resolve the issue, and assign other sites.Mohammad Adeeb, a former Rajya Sabha member, who is leading a 21-member committee to resolve the ongoing issue, wrote to the deputy commissioner on Monday, and said that after Khattar announced that the permission for prayer in the open places has been withdrawn, new places were to be discussed and provided. “We would like to know whether the administration has allotted new places for Juma namaz, if so then which are these places,” he said in the letter.As a resident of Gurugram, I wanted to know how many places in the 113 sectors of the city have been allotted to Hindu temples and community centres; how many to churches and gurudwaras and how many places have been allocated to mosques, Adeeb said in the letter.Council spokesperson Altaf Ahmad said if the administration will now provide them the details of places allotted to places of worship in the city, they will file a right to information plea. “We need cooperation and support of the administration for reaching an amicable solution,” he said.Community members have claimed that there are nearly 500,000 Muslims who stay or work in Gurugram, and there are only two mosques in new Gurugram and 11 in the old city with a total capacity of 15,000 people. So, even if Juma namaz is performed in several jamaats (shifts), it would not be enough for all.Kulbhushan Bhardwaj, legal advisor to Sanyukt Hindu Sangarsh Samiti, an umbrella organisation of Hindu bodies leading the protests against Friday namaz, said, “We are not aware of any petition. If they are filing a petition, then we will reply to the notice, and will also file petition against them,” he said.
14-12-2021||Lucknow||Rose-ringed parakeets crammed in nylon bag rescued in Lucknow, one arrested||As many as 11 rose-ringed parakeets crammed in a nylon bag were rescued from Nakhas bird market here on Monday, police said and added that one person was arrested in this connection.“The action was taken on a complaint filed by People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals (PETA) India. The police registered an FIR under sections 2, 9, 39, 49, 50, and 51 of the Wildlife (Protection) Act (WPA), 1972, and Section 11(1)(e) and 11(2) of the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals Act, 1960,” said Hiraj Laljani of PETA in a press statement. Rose-ringed parakeet is a medium-sized parrot found in Africa and South Asia. They are protected under Schedule IV of the Wildlife Protection Act. Additional deputy commissioner of police (ADCP), Chiranjeev Nath Sinha said, “The Prevention of Cruelty to Animals Act, 1960, makes it illegal to keep or confine any bird in any cage which does not offer a reasonable opportunity for movement, which for bird, would mean flight. Birds have a fundamental right to fly, and they belong in nature and in the sky flying free with their families, not in eternal lockdown.” The parakeet are with the forest department and will be released in their natural habitat.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/roseringed-parakeets-crammed-in-nylon-bag-rescued-in-lucknow-one-arrested-101639421649752.html
14-12-2021||Noida||Suspects attempt to steal Metro cable wires in Noida, booked||The Gautam Budh Nagar police has filed an attempt to theft case against unidentified people who allegedly cut Metro cable wires between Sector 61 and 52 Metro stations on Monday morning and fled as soon as Metro officials spotted them. “Around 4.30am on Monday, some miscreants allegedly tried to cut the Metro’s signal wire that runs along the tracks ...between Sector 61 and 52 Metro stations. As soon as the suspects cut the cables, the signal system of the Metro tripped and the staff and security were alerted. When they reached the spot, the suspects had already fled, leaving behind the cut cables as well as their belongings. No theft took place but an FIR under Section 356 (attempt to theft) of the IPC has been lodged against unknown persons,” said Harish Chander, deputy commissioner of police (central), Gautam Budh Nagar police.  The police recovered a blunt cutter and a ladder from the spot.“A complaint has been filed by the manager of the Metro security staff. The case is being investigated and CCTV footage is being examined to nab the suspects,” said Vivek Tripathi, station house officer of Phase-3 police station.The snapping of the cables affected the Metro services. “Delay in services between Noida City Centre and Noida Sector 61. Normal service on all other lines,” posted the official Twitter handle of Delhi Metro Rail Corporation at 8.53am on Monday.The DMRC did not issue any official statement over the issue.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/suspects-attempt-to-steal-metro-cable-wires-in-noida-booked-101639421471367.html
14-12-2021||Delhi||Delhi looks to take yoga to doorsteps, offers citizens free classes, teachers||tarting January, the Delhi government will offer free yoga classes to people within their housing societies, colony parks or community centres.In a bid to make yoga a “mass movement” by making it a community practice, Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Monday launched the “Dilli Ki Yogshala” programme, in which 400 certified yoga instructors will impart yoga lessons to at least 20,000 people at their doorsteps in the city next month onwards.“Yoga is India’s gift to the entire world. I asked many people why they do not actively practise yoga. To this, the most common answer was that people either don’t have anyone to teach them, or the classes are very expensive and unaffordable. Then, the lack of discipline also posed a problem – practising for a couple of days and then slacking. Keeping these obstacles in mind, we formulated the idea to launch the Dilli Ki Yogshala programme which will provide you with classes and teachers free of cost,” Kejriwal said at the launch event at the Delhi secretariat on Monday.“All you need to do is arrange a group of 25 people who are willing to learn yoga, decide on an open space near your house, like a park or a community hall, and then give us a missed call on 9013585858. The Delhi government will assign a teacher to you. I believe people will enthusiastically take part in large numbers in this programme,” he said.People can also visit the website www.dillikiyogshala.com to register for the programme. The process includes filling the individual’s details, and the venue chosen by the people. One the registration is done, an instructor will be sent to the applicant’s locality and classes will start six days a week.The first International Day of Yoga was celebrated on June 21, 2015 after its inception at the United Nations General Assembly. In Delhi alone, the event saw the participation of nearly 36,000 people, including Prime Minister Narendra Modi, CM Kejriwal, then Lieutenant Governor Najeeb Jung and dignitaries from 84 nations, who performed 21 asanas for 35 minutes at Delhi’s Rajpath.The International Day of Yoga created two records, a Guinness World Record for the largest yoga classes at a single venue and the other for the highest number of nationalities to have participated in such a programme.The Delhi government’s yogshala programme was conceptualised in the beginning of this year, and it was passed in the budget in February. For the trainers, the Delhi government has roped in the Delhi Pharmaceutical Sciences and Research University (DPSRU) and its own training and technical education (TTE) team. The Center for Meditation and Yoga Sciences (CMYS) was established in collaboration with the DPSRU. CMYS launched diploma and certificate courses and enrolled more than 650 students. These students were trained and certified to be yoga instructors, and they will now teach the Delhi residents, a senior government official said.The instructors will coordinate with a member of each group, who will be called “group coordinator”, to organise the classes. The group coordinator will talk to the instructor and fix the time and venue (as deemed suitable by all participants) for the yoga classes. To participate, citizens will have to register themselves on dillikiyogshala.com, the official explained.“An integral component of this initiative is to inculcate an enhanced sense of community within citizens. This initiative will also utilise public spaces like parks, community centres and so on, to their best potential by turning them into venues for community yoga sessions. By transforming these spaces into zones of meditation and positive thinking, the initiative will spread greater awareness about yoga as a means towards creating a happier individual. The concept behind Dilli Ki Yogshala is to make yoga reach door-to-door and to transform it into a mass movement by providing a certified yoga instructor to the public, free of cost,” Kejriwal said.BS Vohra, president of East Delhi residents welfare association joint front, welcomed the move. “No doubt it is a good initiative. It will give a boost to the health as well immunity of Delhiites... RWAs must get involved to encourage citizens to join yoga training,” Vohra said.
14-12-2021||Delhi||In ‘faceless’ Delhi Jal Board, help centres to replace offices||The Delhi Jal Board (DJB) will soon be shutting its existing zonal revenue offices and replacing them with “sahayta kendras” or help centres and also launching a new phone application “DJB4You”, for streamlining the grievance redressal system, a senior official of the water utility, overseeing the implementation of the faceless services project, has said.According to an internal order of the DJB on Friday, finalising the modalities of the faceless offices project, a 15-day limit has been fixed for sanctioning of services after which the applications will be deemed approved.Among a host of other changes, the board has decided to rejig its entire zonal level administrative structure in order to facilitate closure of zonal revenue offices (ZROs). All existing ZROs will be closed and only processing work will take place in revenue offices without any public interaction, the order from additional CEO and director (revenue) Akriti Sagar said.“The 70 zonal revenue officers will operate in 11 pools, each headed by joint directors. Eleven joint director offices will be set up and the pool of officers will work on monitoring, inspections, audits etc. Now the primary mode of communication between the 2.4 million consumers and the DJB will be the mobile app DJB4You, the 1916 helpline, the doorstep delivery service and the new shayata kendras,” a DJB official said, requesting anonymity.Eight new offices with help desks are being set up in Bawana, Palam, Patel Nagar, Badli, Burari, Rohtas Nagar, Tilak Nagar and Ambedkar Nagar to ensure availability of adequate sites, the project report stated.The DJB official quoted above said orders have also been issued for facelifting all DJB offices to turn them into good customer service facilities with waiting area, token machines, cubicles, computers, furniture and improved internet connectivity.Last month, Hindustan Times reported that water minister Satyendar Jain has issued orders for shifting all existing DJB services to the online mode — a move first made by the transport department that took the functions of several regional transport offices (RTO) online earlier this year.The order from the additional CEO also said several changes have been made in the service delivery and that services must be sanctioned/ approved within 15 days or they will be deemed approved on the 16th day. Moreover, field inspections will be discontinued for new connections to plots measuring up to 200 square metres (sqm).A DJB official said separate orders have been issued to ensure that in cases of house-lock meters — property remains locked for a prolonged period — bill will be generated only for service charge and not consumption.Atul Goel, who heads URJA (an umbrella body of resident welfare groups), suggested that while the 15-day limit for deemed sanction of services is a good concept, the water utility should ensure that computer generated automatic certificates of deemed sanction is a part of the system. “If the user does not have a document proving sanction , it will still leave scope for harassment,” Goel said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/app-helpline-help-centres-in-faceless-delhi-jal-board-reforms-101639421171397.html
14-12-2021||Delhi||Detained boy hit victim with brick repeatedly: Delhi Police||The teenager who was apprehended for murdering a 79-year-old woman in Rajendra Nagar hit the victim several times on the head with a brick — on immediately entering the house and then while leaving when she regained consciousness and was about to raise the alarm — investigators said, quoting disclosures by the accused, a day after he was caught for the crime.Kusum Singhal, who lived alone at her house in the Old Rajendra Nagar area, was killed on Friday and her body was found by a neighbour on Saturday. The teenager, according to the police, sold vegetables near her house and used to deliver vegetables to Singhal’s house.Investigators said the boy first hit Singhal with a brick on entering the house, when she was talking over the phone. She lost consciousness immediately and the teenager thought she had died. He then ransacked the house for valuables and stole ₹6,500 cash, some jewellery and a purse. Meanwhile, Singhal regained consciousness and was about to raise the alarm when the teenager picked up the brick again and hit her several times in the head, inflicting severe injuries that led to her death, the officers said, adding that the boy also took away Singhal’s phone.On Monday, the police said they have also arrested two men, identified by their first names as Ajit (24) and Aakash (21), for allegedly purchasing the elderly woman’s mobile phone, a pair of earrings and a metal ring. The teenager sold the phone and pair of earrings to Ajit, while Aakash bought the metal ring.Deputy commissioner of police (central) Sweta Singh Chauhan said the murder took place on December 10, a day before the woman’s body was found by her neighbour, who had gone to check on her after being contacted by one of her daughters, who was worried as her mother was not answering calls.As there were signs of the house being ransacked, a case of murder for robbery was registered. During inquiry, it was learnt that Singhal was last seen nearly 20 hours before her body was discovered.It was learnt that Singhal had undergone some diagnostic tests on December 10 and because of that, she was wearing a holter monitor (a wearable device that tracks heart rhythms).“The reading on the machine (observed through a remote server) showed that her heartbeat increased excessively between 3.30pm and 4pm on December 10, suggesting that she was murdered during that period. Investigators examined the footage of nearly 90 CCTV cameras installed in the neighbourhood during that half hour and one of the cameras captured the suspect in the lane, with a brick in his hand,” said another investigator.The suspect was apprehended along with the woman’s stolen cellphone, ₹2,000 cash and two pairs of earrings. While he was being examined, the investigating team found that Singhal’s Facebook account was still active.“The teenager told us he stole another cellphone from the woman’s house on December 8, two days before the murder. He sold that phone to Ajit. We arrested Ajit and recovered the phone,” the investigator said.The teenager told the police that he planned to rob Singhal when he came to know that she lived alone while delivering vegetables to her home.
14-12-2021||Lucknow||Oudh Bar Association opposes transfer of cases from Lucknow to Allahabad HC; to raise the issue before CJ||Lucknow: The Oudh Bar Association (OBA), Lucknow, has decided to oppose transfer of cases from the Lucknow high court to the Allahabad high court. It also resolved to meet the Chief Justice and apprise him about the stand of OBA on the issue. On November 18, 2021, a bench headed by Chief Justice Rajesh Binda had ordered to submit a list of cases pending in both the benches (Lucknow and Allahabad) on the same issue so that they could be clubbed and heard together. In another order dated December 9, 2021, a bench headed by the chief justice pointed out that a number of petitions were pending before this court (Lucknow) and also the principal bench (Allahabad) on similar issue related to payment of cane price or interest on account of delayed payment. “In a meeting convened by the Oudh Bar Association on December 10, it was resolved to oppose any move to transfer ‘any case’ or ‘class of cases’ from Lucknow high court to Allahabad high court,” said Rakesh Kumar Chaudhary, president, Oudh Bar Association. “The association has further resolved that any notion of ‘Principal Bench’ attached to the seat of the high court at Allahabad is wrong and is strongly condemned and opposed,” added Chaudhary. “We have also decided to meet Hon’ble Chief Justice and apprise him about the stand of the Oudh Bar Association on the issue of transfer of cases and wrong notion of principal seat of the high court in Allahabad,” said Chaudhary. “Firstly, it is clear that there is no power vested with the high court to transfer case(s) from its seat at Lucknow to the seat at Allahabad,” said the resolution passed by the OBA. “The only power vested is with the chief justice under Article 14 of the amalgamation order that too after hearing the affected parties and determining on objective criteria and upon investigation whether the case was (a) transferable and (b) should be transferred,” said the OBA’s resolution. “Secondly, the notion that seat of this court at Allahabad is ‘principal bench’ is fallacious and is against the dictum of the constitution bench judgment of the Supreme Court,” claimed the OBA’s resolution. Moreover, lawyers of Lucknow have also demanded to increase jurisdiction of the Lucknow high court. 
14-12-2021||Delhi||Cops list 64 snarl points in Delhi, to draw plans to ease traffic, pollution||The Delhi traffic police have identified 64 congestion points from where long tailbacks and regular snarls are being reported, resulting in increased vehicular emissions that worsen the overall pollution levels in the national capital.A senior officer said the department has drawn up a list of 64 places that are most prone to congestion, and the traffic police, in coordination with the city’s environment department, will now identify reasons behind these traffic hold-ups and make individual plans to ease the jams.The need for urgent solutions couldn’t have been more evident than it was on Monday, when Delhi’s air quality was back in the ”very poor“category, with an air quality index (AQI) reading of 331, according to the Central Pollution Control Board’s 4pm bulletin. In comparison, the air was much better on Sunday, when the AQI was 254, in the “poor” category.“In September, we first identified a list of 30 congestion points when the Delhi Pollution Control Committee (DPCC) held the first meeting with all agencies in the Capital, before the onset of the pollution season. But now we have identified more stretches and junctions where jams are reported on a regular basis,” the Delhi traffic police officer cited above said.Some of the areas that have been included in the new list are Qutub Road, Delhi Gate, Nirman Vihar (Vikas Marg), Anand Vihar interstate bus terminal, Khajuri Chowk, Palam flyover, Delhi Cantonment flyover to Dhaula Kuan, Outer Circle Connaught Place, Bhairon Marg (Ring Road), Gulab Singh Road, Azadpur Mandi, Madhuban Chowk, Ashram Chowk to Maharani Bagh, Khanpur T-point, Okhla Mandi, Lodhi flyover, Uttam Nagar Chowk to Dwarka Mor, Kapashera Chowk, Shadipur Chowk and Peeragarhi Chowk.Officials said each of the six traffic ranges identified the most congested stretches in their respective jurisdictions. The criteria for inclusion on the list were consistent traffic jams and increased vehicular volume. The long waiting time at traffic signals was also treated as an indicator of increased vehicular emissions, the officer said.Senior officials of DPCC also said the identification of these congestion points was important to control vehicular pollution, which is the biggest source of local pollution in the national capital.Action on these stretches will provide a dual benefit — reducing commuter distress while also bringing down the local pollution, the officials said.“After the Covid-19 pandemic, vehicular emissions have become a bigger problem. A lot of commuters, who were earlier travelling via public transport modes, have now switched to private vehicles. Many from economically weaker backgrounds have purchased two-wheelers or second hand cars for their commute, fearing contraction of infection on mass transit systems. The negative impact of this can be seen in the form of increased jams and its effect on pollution,” a DPCC official said.The official added that each of these stretches will be inspected and the reason behind the snarls will be assessed and solutions worked out accordingly.“For instance, if broken roads are causing a traffic hold-up, then we will forward the complaint to the public works department (PWD) or the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) so that the necessary action is taken. The solutions could be either short or long term, but we will try to resolve the maximum number of issues and reduce the list,” the DPCC official said.A study by the Centre for Science and Environment (CSE), released in November, showed that vehicular emissions contributed the highest share to Delhi’s PM 2.5 levels (particulate matter with diameter less than 2.5 micrometres), in terms of local sources of pollution.
14-12-2021||Other||At Goa rally, Mamata flaunts ‘Christian’ credentials, vows to fight BJP||West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee flaunted her Christian credentials recalling her relationship with Mother Teresa during the 90s as well as her government’s decision to celebrate Christmas in a big way in Kolkata as she kicked off her two-day visit to Goa on Monday. Banerjee, whose party is keen to establish a presence in the state ahead of the upcoming assembly elections expected to be held early next year, addressed the first of her three public rallies in the Christian dominated constituency of Benaulim where she also welcomed local MLA Churchill Alemão into the party. “Mother Teresa was very affectionate to me. Once when the Left Front government was there (in power). At midnight she rang me up and said, ‘Mamata those leftists are capturing one house of ours. Can you help me?’ I went there and settled it and saved her,” Banerjee told the gathering. “I must remember that day when the Babri Masjid was demolished. There was a big communal riot in Kolkata everywhere. I was there on the road. No government (presence) was on the road. Then I met Mother Teresa in Loretto school, which is run by Catholics and all. Mother told me, ‘Mamata, what are you doing here? And I asked her, What are you doing here? That relationship we maintained,” Banerjee said, adding that she was invited to the Vatican for the canonization ceremony of Mother Teresa, an invitation she accepted. “After our government came (to power), we celebrated the Christmas festival in Kolkata in a big way. I am going to inaugurate that festival later this month where Derek O’Brien will be with me and the Archbishop will be with me and some fathers (priests) also. Every year I go to Church, not a single year I have missed,” she said, adding that Christmas midnight mass was something she attended since she was very young. Banerjee is in the state for a second visit and made her intentions clear that her aim was not to ‘split the vote’ against the BJP, rather ‘unite the vote against the BJP.’ “Everyone wants that BJP must go politically. Everyone has seen the (reality of the) performance of zero tolerance (to corruption) and zero governance. They are trying to finish the country, democracy, the constitution, heritage. It is not only in Goa but in every part of this country,” she said. “They have only one narrative that they only are (real) Hindus and the rest (of us) have fallen from the sky. (Everyone) who has a big heart is a real Hindu. My parents never told me ‘You are a Hindu so you must never like a Muslim or never like a Christian,’” she said. Taking a dig at the Congress, she said that no party had the right to claim ownership of the opposition space. “We have seen in India that some political parties consider themselves zamindars. They do not do anything and do not let others do anything. How many days did we wait? I do not want to speak against the Congress. If the Congress thinks of working to defeat the BJP, we have no objection. We have formed an alliance in Goa along with MGP. This is the alternative. You want to join, join us. Just because you (Congress) are not doing it, no one else will do it, this is not right. In a democracy... nobody is a zamindar in that way,” she added. Earlier in the day, Alemao, in a representation before Speaker Rajesh Patnekar, said he as the lone MLA of the Nationalist Congress Party in the Goa Assembly was ‘merging’ his legislative party and should henceforth be considered an MLA of the TMC. The state unit of the NCP hit back saying that they were contemplating legal action as Alemão’s unilateral decision had no authorization from the party.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/at-goa-rally-mamata-flaunts-christian-credentials-vows-to-fight-bjp-101639420510479.html
14-12-2021||Gurugram||Gurugram increases hospital beds to prepare for possible Omicron wave||Since the second wave of Covid-19 in April-May, hospital beds in the district have been increased by almost 50% across both private and government hospitals, said officials. As on Monday, the district has a total of 5,532 beds — up from 3,700 beds during the second wave — including oxygen beds, intensive care unit beds and ventilator beds, health officials said as concerns mount over a countrywide rise in cases of Omicron, the new Covid-19 variant. The district health department, on December 1, had asked all private and government hospitals to update details of bed availability, as part of preparations to tackle a new spread of the pandemic. Dr Jai Prakash, district surveillance officer, said, “Hospital bed capacity has been increased in the district by at least 50% since the second wave. Apart from the beds available in private and government hospitals, there are almost 1,000 beds available in temporary hospitals that were set up during the second wave — like the facility at Tau Devi Lal Stadium, M3M and other government facilities. All these beds also have oxygen support. Of these beds, 350 can be used for paediatric cases of Covid-19.”According to the data shared by the health department, of the 5,532 beds, 3,427 are in private hospitals and have oxygen support, 434 are ventilator beds, and 952 are ICU beds. A total of 367 beds available in government hospitals, all of which are oxygen supported. Of the 367, six are ventilator beds and 19 are ICU beds. Dr Virender Yadav, chief medical officer, Gurugram, said, “We have taken an update from all hospitals to see how many beds are available and we are continuously monitoring the situation. There are enough beds in both government and private hospitals in the district, in addition to those in the temporary hospitals that were built during the second wave of Covid. We also have 25% of beds in all hospitals reserved for treatment of Covid-19 patients at any given point of time.” In the district, 101 hospitals with 20 beds or above, are associated with the health department and authorised to treat Covid-19 patients. A total of 38 hospitals have 50 beds and above. The district has also increased testing to a daily average of 4,000 samples. The district health department is also sending 30 samples at random every month for genome sequencing as part of monitoring process for Omicron.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/gurugram-increases-hospital-beds-to-prepare-for-possible-omicron-wave-101639420390337.html
14-12-2021||Delhi||Pollution in Delhi creeps back to ‘very poor’, temperature stays low||Temperatures continued to remain low in Delhi, with the mercury at 6.6 degrees Celsius on Monday morning at Safdarjung, Delhi’s base observatory. While this was two degrees below normal, the city recorded a maximum temperature of 22.4°C, a notch below normal.The cooler days and nights did, however, adversely affect pollution levels, pushing the air quality index (AQI) into the ‘very poor’ zone.Delhi recorded this season’s lowest minimum temperature — 6.4°C — a day earlier, and the India Meteorological Department (IMD) said the city can expect a similar chill for the rest of the week.RK Jenamani, scientist at IMD, said the minimum temperature will hover between 6°C and 8°C till the end of the week, with two western disturbances in the northern plains likely to marginally influence Delhi.“These are feeble western disturbances, so the impact will not be too significant. The minimum temperature may rise to 8°C, but a drop in mercury is expected from December 17,” said Jenamani.At 6.6°C, Safdarjung in south Delhi was the coldest spot in the national capital on Monday morning, while Mayur Vihar in east Delhi recorded the city’s lowest maximum at 20.8°C.The IMD’s forecast for Tuesday showed that the maximum temperature is likely to hover around 23°C, while the minimum is likely to remain around the 6°C mark.The drop in temperatures, particularly at night and in the early hours of the day has also pushed Delhi’s air quality back into the ‘very poor’ category, with a 24-hour average AQI of 331 at 4pm, according to the Central Pollution Control Board. In comparison, it was 254 (poor) on Sunday.Experts said wind speeds are again expected to pick up from December 15.“The AQI will hover between ‘poor’ and ‘very poor’ during this period. Low temperatures are unfavourable for the dispersal of pollutants, but an increase in wind speeds from December 15 may once again bring down the AQI to ‘poor’,” said Gufran Beig, founder and project director, System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting And Research (Safar) — a forecasting body under the Union ministry of earth sciences.The Early Warning System (EWS) for Delhi, which also falls under the ministry of earth sciences, also forecasts Delhi’s air quality to hover between ‘poor’ and ‘very poor’ during the next seven days, with severe air unlikely at the moment.Anumita Roychowdhury, executive director, research and advocacy at the Centre for Science and Environment (CSE) said Delhi’s air quality generally tends to return to the ‘severe’ category by the last week of December, as low temperatures combine with dense fog to trap pollutants. “Low temperatures slow down the air and the moisture content from the fog also traps pollutants. We may once again see a spell of severe air towards end December and early January,” said Roychowdhury.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/temperature-in-delhi-dips-air-pollution-slips-in-very-poor-zone-101639420330098.html
14-12-2021||Lucknow||PM Modi, chief ministers watch Ganga aarti||Prime Minister Narendra Modi, along with chief ministers of BJP-ruled states, watched the Ganga aarti from on board a cruise at a ghat in Varanasi on Monday evening.Before witnessing the Ganga aarti, PM Modi boarded Vivekanand Cruise at Ravidas Ghat.Several earthen lamps were lit at the Ravidas Ghat welcoming the Prime Minister. The Vivekanand Cruise was also decked up with lights.Earlier in the day, the Prime Minister offered prayers to Sant Ravidas in Varanasi after inaugurating the Kashi Vishwanath Corridor project. PM Modi also took a boat ride from Lalita Ghat to Ravidas Ghat with UP chief minister Yogi Adityanath after having lunch with the workers involved in the construction work of the Kashi Vishwanath Dham Corridor.Modi, who is on a two-day visit to Kashi, will participate in a conclave of chief ministers on Tuesday.The chief ministers of Uttar Pradesh, Assam, Arunachal Pradesh, Goa, Gujarat, Haryana, Himachal Pradesh, Karnataka, Madhya Pradesh, Manipur, Tripura and Uttarakhand, along with deputy CMs from Bihar and Nagaland, will participate in the meet. The conclave will provide an opportunity to share governance-related best practices and is in line with the Prime Minister’s vision of furthering team India spirit.Besides Yogi Adityanath, Uttarakhand chief minister Pushkar Singh Dhami, his Haryana counterpart Manohar Lal Khattar, Goa CM Pramod Sawant, Himachal Pradesh CM Jai Ram Thakur, Gujarat CM Bhupendrabhai Patel and his Arunachal Pradesh counterpart Pema Khandu would attend the conclave.Thereafter, PM Modi will also visit Swar Ved Temple built in the Umaraha area of Varanasi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/pmmodi-chief-ministers-watch-ganga-aarti-101639420269897.html
14-12-2021||Delhi||Delhi pollution: Delhi govt asks CAQM to reopen schools||The Delhi government will send a submission to the Commission for Air Quality Management (CAQM) in the National Capital Region and adjoining areas that educational institutions for students from Class 6 be reopened with immediate effect, while physical classes for primary schoolchildren be resumed from December 20 since pollution levels in the Capital have improved this month, Delhi’s environment minister Gopal Rai on Monday said.Rai also said the government will continue the ban on entry of diesel and petrol trucks to Delhi until further directions are issued, and hold a review meeting for the ban on construction activities on December 16.“Delhi’s air quality has started to improve and the situation is not as severe as it was post-Diwali. Delhi’s air quality index (AQI) levels between December 1 and December 12 have been hovering between 250 and 300 and therefore, a review meeting with all the departments was held today (Monday) to analyse the possible measures that can be taken around the restrictions imposed to curb air pollution,” Rai said.The minister said a proposal was sent by the education department, which will now be sent to CAQM through Delhi’s environment department.The commission is expected to hold a review meeting later this week to decide when and how to lift the existing curbs on air pollution that have been imposed across NCR, including the closure of schools and colleges, ban on construction activities, and the closure of some thermal power plants, among other restrictions.The Supreme Court on Friday directed CAQM to take a decision on relaxing the restrictions imposed within a week’s time, noting that the air quality had “started improving” in the region.Schools have been shut four times since March last year – twice owing to concerns over Covid-19, and twice since November because of the pollution problem. Schools were allowed to call all students for in-person classes from November 1 but the classes were suspended again for a week on November 13, after the apex court pulled up authorities over the city’s poor air quality. Schools then reopened on November 29 as pollution eased marginally, but were shut again on December 2.The next day, on December 3, the Supreme Court clarified that it did not ask the government to shut schools, but had simply asked the reasons for change in the government’s stance in regard to schools.Delhi’s air quality has shown a slight improvement since the start of December, with only one ‘severe’ air day during this period. The air quality has largely hovered between ‘poor’ and ‘very poor’. In comparison, Delhi recorded 11 ‘severe’ air days in November.A CAQM official said they were also listening to applications for possible exemptions to be given to various industries, with a meeting to decide relaxation to be taken this week. “All such applications will be analysed and the Supreme Court has given us a week’s time to look at the best way to reopen. A decision will be taken accordingly,” said the official, speaking on condition of anonymity.For construction activities, Rai said the government met several construction agencies on Monday, but added that the decision to exempt them will lie with the commission. “We have asked these agencies to write to CAQM, but we will also be holding a detailed review on December 16 at 12pm, where agencies can submit reasons for a possible exemption to resume construction work. We will then be sharing this with CAQM,” he added.The minister stressed that other campaigns to control pollution locally will continue in Delhi, with 6,953 inspections carried out so far as part of the anti-dust campaign. Out of these, 597 locations were issued notices, with fines of ₹1.65 crore imposed so far. “As part of the campaign against open burning, we have inspected 16,580 sites so far, with 2,490 notices and a total fine of ₹46.96 lakh issued so far.” the minister said, adding that agencies in Delhi will also continue to sprinkle water on roads.Rai said as part of the Green Delhi app, 6,975 complaints had been received so far by the Delhi government since its launch on October 5, with 5,686 (81%) resolved. “Our campaign against polluting cars has meant 19.5 lakh cars have been inspected this winter season and around 49,000 cars have also been fined for not having a valid PUC certificate,” he added.Sudha Acharya, the chairperson of the National Progressive Schools’ Conference, which has over 120 private Delhi schools as its members, said prolonged closures had thrown the academic cycle out of gear and hurt learning. “We don’t know by when will we able to start teaching the students in class 10 and 12...With so many school closures, we are left with little time to prepare students for the remaining part of the board exams,” said Acharya, who is the principal of ITL School in Dwarka.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-pollution-delhi-govt-asks-caqm-to-reopen-schools-101639420029828.html
14-12-2021||Delhi||On the wane: Delhi logs less than 300 new dengue cases||With temperatures dropping consistently in Delhi over the past one week, the number of dengue cases being reported in the national capital during the week has also declined to below the 300 mark, for the first time since mid-October (there were 243 cases in the week ending October 16).According to the weekly report on mosquito-borne diseases, released by the municipal corporations of Delhi on Monday, the city recorded 285 dengue cases and zero malaria and chikungunya cases. No new death due to dengue has been reported during the past one week, the report said. The figure is quite low, health officials said, adding that in the two weeks preceding that, Delhi had recorded 699 and 1,148 new cases of dengue, respectively.Overall, Delhi has so far registered 9,260 dengue cases and 15 deaths — figures second only to the 60 fatalities recorded during the 2015 outbreak when nearly 16,000 people were infected.A senior public health official from the South Delhi Municipal Corporation (SDMC), the nodal agency for data compilation, said the city is well past the peak of dengue infections and the mosquito activity is likely to reduce even further in the coming weeks as the daily temperature drops. On Monday (December 13), Delhi registered a minimum temperature of 6.6 degrees Celsius (°C), which is two degrees less than normal for this time of the year. The maximum temperature on Monday was 22.4°C, one degree less than normal.SDMC officials said both the anopheles (malaria transmitting) and aedes aegypti (dengue transmitting) mosquitoes prefer warmer environs, ideally above 30°C. “Once the temperature drops to about 20°C, they become less active in open environments and stop functioning entirely once the mercury drops below 10°C. People still need to be careful as adult mosquitoes have a life of one month. Fumigating and cleaning the house and premises thoroughly will help remove adult mosquitoes that will otherwise live in ambient house temperatures,” the public health official said, asking not to be named.This year, Delhi has recorded the most number of dengue infections and deaths since 2015. A bulk of these came in November, when the corporations logged 6,739 cases. In Delhi, the number of dengue cases usually peak in the month of October and the delayed peak of the infection was attributed to a delayed withdrawal of the monsoon and the slow arrival of winter, officials said.“Three more deaths related to dengue are under investigation by the death audit committee and a final decision is pending,” an official said, on condition of anonymity.Once a dengue or malaria related death is reported by a hospital, a nine-member expert committee audits all documents related to that patient to ascertain whether it was indeed the infection that killed the person and whether the origin of the infection was Delhi. The committee also takes a look at other aspects like co-morbidities before attributing the death to vector borne diseases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-dengue-cases-tally-now-below-300-mark-101639419729800.html
14-12-2021||Lucknow||Akhilesh Yadav takes jibe at PM’s Kashi visit; BJP hits back||KANPUR In a loaded remark on the day Prime Minister Narendra Modi inaugurated the Kashi Vishwanath corridor in Varanasi, Samajwadi Party president Akhilesh Yadav taunted him, saying people stay in Kashi when the end is near.Yadav was apparently suggesting that the BJP government was in its “final days” in Uttar Pradesh.“It is very good, he (PM) can stay there for not one month, but two or even three months. That is a good place to stay; people spend their final days in Banaras,” he said when asked by reporters that the PM is in Varanasi and the government has planned month-long cultural events to mark the event.The elections to the UP Assembly are due within three months and the SP claims that it will oust the BJP from power. In Hindu religion, spending last days of life in Kashi is considered auspicious.The SP chief also took a swipe at the BJP, saying they should “avoid telling lies” before God. He hit out at the BJP for claiming the credit of developmental works, which he claimed were done by his government.On Sunday, Akhilesh had claimed that it was during his tenure that the Kashi Vishwanath corridor project was approved, for which he has “documentary evidence”.“The three farm laws should have been repealed long time ago. But the government did not do that and as a result 600 farmers lost their lives. The BJP government has withdrawn the laws fearing a backlash from farmers who will not forgot the inhumane treatment they were meted out and will give a befitting reply during the elections,” said Yadav in his native village Saifai in Etawah district on Monday. He said the government had made electricity so costly that farmers struggled to afford it while they also had brave long queues to get urea.Alleging discrimination against his native district Etawah by the ruling dispensation, Yadav said: “The cricket stadium in Etawah could have hosted IPL matches had it not been slow pace of development. The lion safari, our dream project, is incomplete while the astro turf is also being neglected.” Meanwhile, the BJP government and the party hit out at SP chief Akhilesh Yadav over his remark that “Kashi is meant for stay during one’s last days” that he made in response to a query on Prime Minister Narendra Modi. Slamming the SP chief over the remark, UP BJP chief Swatantra Dev Singh sought an apology from Akhilesh and also demanded that the SP chief should visit the KV temple to seek forgiveness for his comment. “His remarks against the visionary Prime Minister were disgusting and in such bad taste. I pray to God to put some sense in Akhilesh ji. The SP chief must apologise and visit Kashi Vishwanath (temple) to seek forgiveness for his sins,” the UP BJP chief said. Inputs from PTI||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/people-stay-in-kashi-when-end-is-near-akhilesh-s-jibe-at-pm-101639410489247.html
14-12-2021||Delhi||Covid-19: 21,235 families in Delhi received ₹50,000 one-time financial aid, says AAP minister||As many as 21,235 families, in which a member has lost their life to Covid-19, have been provided with a one-time financial assistance of ₹50,000, Delhi’s social welfare minister Rajendra Pal Gautam said on Monday. He said that the government had received 25,100 total applications for the ex-gratia amount.“A total of 25,100 applications have been received for a one-time financial aid of ₹50,000. So far, 21,235 families have been given the assistance,” Gautam said.Kejriwal Govt's COVID-19 assistance scheme-▪️25,100 total applications received▪️21,235 have been provided financial assistance of ₹50,000▪️1500+ to be given ex-gratia of ₹50,000 soon▪️9,600 approx. getting monthly pension of ₹2500-@AdvRajendraPal #KejriwalCares pic.twitter.com/TyLNhPHWnlHe also said that 9,484 applications have been approved for a monthly pension of ₹2,500. The government received 12,668 applications for the monthly scheme, he added. While 7,955 applicants had already started getting the pension, another 1,120 applications are pending the revenue department’s verification, the minister also said.Also read | Omicron: Will India allow booster dose? Here's what central expert panel saidHe also noted that close to 2,500 families had not availed the scheme due to various reasons and roughly 1,500 families are set to get the assistance soon, news agency PTI reported.Earlier this year, the Delhi government introduced the "Mukhyamantri COVID-19 Pariwar Aarthik Sahayata Yojana", aimed at giving a one-time financial aid of ₹50,000 to the families of all that lost their lives to the coronavirus disease in the national capital. Also, a monthly assistance of ₹2,500 to those families that have lost their only breadwinner and for children orphaned due to the pandemic.Meanwhile, Delhi saw 56 new cases of Covid-19 on Sunday and no new related deaths as the total caseload reached 1,441,718 and the death toll remained at 25,100, a bulletin from the health department showed. The active caseload stood at 397 in the city.Chief minister Arvind Kejriwal said that his government would introduce new restrictions in the city to check the spread of the Omicron (B.1.1.529) variant if the need arises. “We are ready to tackle the Omicron threat. If required, we will impose necessary restrictions. Currently, there is no such need to impose any restrictions,” news agency ANI quoted the chief minister as saying on Monday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/covid19-21-235-families-in-delhi-received-rs-50-000-one-time-financial-aid-says-aap-minister-101639394798868.html
