15-12-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana: Burglars decamp with ₹70,000 from showroom||A gang of burglars targeted a sportswear fabric showroom in Sundar Nagar early on Wednesday morning and decamped with ₹70,000.The crime was captured on CCTV camera, where six people were seen standing guard outside the store and one of them entered and stole the cash.Manish Goyal, the owner, stated that when he reached the showroom at 9.30am, he noticed that the rear shutter was broken. He then found that the cash box was broken and the money had been stolen. Goyal said that the burglars used iron rods to pull up the shutter .Inspector Amrit Pal, station house officer at Daresi police station, said that the police will lodge an FIR after recording the statement of the showroom owner.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-burglars-decamp-with-70-000-from-showroom-101639592986117.html
15-12-2021||Lucknow||Lucknow Metro bags Energy Conservation Award 2021||Lucknow Metro has been awarded the Energy Conservation Award 2021 by Union Minister for Power and New and Renewable Energy Raj Kumar Singh at Vigyan Bhawan, New Delhi. Lucknow Metro bagged the award for the effective and efficient usage of available resources in the ‘Metro Railways – Energy Conservation Category’. “ Lucknow Metro has been following an environment-friendly approach towards development since its inception, which has now been highlighted by the Bureau of Energy Efficiency. The Lucknow Metro corridor is 100 percent equipped with LED lighting and all stations along with the metro rakes have these installations which effectively save a substantial amount of power and energy,” said Kumar Keshav, managing director UP Metro Rail Corporation. Besides, the metro rakes are designed with regenerative braking technology, which also helps to cut down on electricity usage. This high-tech rolling stock aids in saving up to 35 per cent of energy, when compared to traditional systems. It has also employed this regenerative braking system across lifts, which contributes to saving 34 percent of energy. Kumar Keshav said, “Renewable energy projects like roof top solar power plants have been commissioned at depot, RSS building and administrative building of Lucknow Metro. Rooftop solar power plant on elevated stations is under planning and to be commissioned in near future. The UP Metro Rail Corporation has planted a total of 1.38MW solar units as yet. This ensures a supply of 30 lakh units of alternative electricity, annually.” He said, “To bring down carbon footprint, we have incorporated ‘green innovative solutions’ in Agra and Kanpur Metro rail projects’’. Present on the occasion were chief guest Krishan Pal, union minister for power and heavy industries, and secretary to the government of India, Abhay Bhakhre – director general, bureau of energy efficiency, Vivek Kumar Dewagan, additional secretary, ministry of power and other dignitaries.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/lucknow-metro-bags-energy-conservation-award-2021-101639592978979.html
15-12-2021||Other||Gurugram: Manesar civic body moves to vacate plots from lease holders||The town planning and enforcement wing of Municipal Corporation of Manesar (MCM) has issued directions to at least eight lease holders falling in its jurisdiction to vacate their respective plots that they had leased from gram panchayats as their lease periods are over. The officials said that these plots are prime properties and are being held illegally.As per MCM officials, the plots were taken on lease by various people from village panchayats, but these properties have now come under the ownership of the newly formed corporation. “We conducted an inspection on Tuesday and told the lease holders to vacate their plots which are located on the national highway. The lease period of the plots is over and now they are holding it beyond the permissible period,” said RS Bhath, district town planner, who also has the additional charge of town planner of MCM. Bhath said that eight to nine large chunks of land are located on the national highway, which the corporation will soon take back. Also, these lands were taken to set up nurseries and similar activities but now dhabas and other commercial establishments are operating from there, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/gurugram-manesar-civic-body-moves-to-vacate-plots-from-lease-holders-101639592918073.html
15-12-2021||Lucknow||Populist announcements likely in second supplementary budget of Uttar Pradesh||The Uttar Pradesh government is set to make some populist announcements for different sections in the state assembly during the current winter session as it presents the second supplementary budget for 2021-22 and an interim budget (vote on account for the first few months) for 2022-23, ahead of the 2022 UP assembly elections.The state government has announced an increase in the honorarium for panchayat functionaries, including village pradhans, district and block panchayat presidents and may make more such announcements.Finance minister Suresh Khanna will present the Uttar Pradesh government’s second supplementary budget for 2021-2022 and the interim budget, a vote on account for first few months of 2022-2023 in the presence of chief minister Yogi Adityanath.“Yes, the state government may come out with some announcements about farmers and others as it presents the second supplementary demands of grants for 2021-2022 and a vote on account for a part of 2022-23 in the state assembly,” said a senior officer.“The state government may get the nod of the state legislature for the new schemes in the supplementary budget and funds may be transferred to the beneficiaries under the direct benefit transfer scheme,” the officer added.“This is the last budgetary exercise before the assembly elections are formally announced. The state government is expected to seek approval to populist schemes, including a likely increase in honorarium of village pradhans in the state. The other sections of the society, including farmers, may also be benefitted by the government’s largesse. Despite two supplementary budgets, the state government’s total expenditure in 2021-22 may fall short of the original budgetary estimates of ₹5.50 lakh crore for the year,” said Professor Yashvir Tyagi, former head of department of economics, Lucknow University. This is not the first time that the state government will present a supplementary budget and an interim budget in the last session of the state assembly. As chief minister, Akhilesh Yadav had also presented supplementary demands and an interim budget in the last session of state assembly ahead of the 2017 polls. The opposition is questioning the state government for bringing out the second supplementary budget for 2021-22.“The state government has not been able to use the funds already allocated to different departments in the annual budget for 2021-2022. So, there is no point in presenting the second supplementary budget,” said Congress Legislature Party leader Aradhana Mishra.“The Yogi Adityanath government is implementing development projects at a faster pace and schemes have been launched for the welfare of the people. The state government allocates funds for these projects and schemes. There is nothing new as the state governments in the past, too, have presented supplementary budgets and interim budgets ahead of polls,” said Uttar Pradesh BJP spokesman Avnish Tyagi.The state government had on August 18, 2021 presented the first supplementary budget of ₹7301.52 crore for 2021-22 to provide large or even token sums for various schemes. These included a scheme to make the youths digitally proficient, pay increased honorarium to different categories of workers such as shiksha mitras, anganwadi workers and village chowkidars, clear dues of farmers and provide funds for the welfare of cows. It allocated additional sums for some of the ongoing projects too. The state government had presented its largest ever annual budget in size for ₹5,50,270.78 crore on February 22, 2021 despite constraints of the adverse impact that Covid-19 has had on the UP economy.
15-12-2021||Other||AMU to file appeal on NAAC grading||The Aligarh Muslim University has decided to file a representation to review its National Assessment and Accreditation Council (NAAC) grading after the announcement of Assessment & Accreditation (A&A) result. Aligarh Muslim University (AMU) has been ranked ‘A’ with a Cumulative Grade Point Average (CGPA) of 3.24 in the NAAC review held in the last week of November.The decision to file a representation was taken on the recommendation of the committee constituted by the vice chancellor of AMU to analyse the grading awarded by NAAC.The committee analysed the Assessment Outcome Document released by NAAC pertaining to AMU and concluded that there are points where the evaluation of the matrixes has impacted the score and needs a review.“There are certain parameters on which evaluation has not been done and on some points scoring does not match with the actual data provided and hence we will file an appeal on the points scored and corresponding grades awarded. This has been recommended by the committee which comprises senior faculty members of the University,” vice chancellor, prof Tariq Mansoor said.He said, “There are grievances in certain criteria which need to be addressed. The NAAC has notified grievance redressal guidelines and the university will file an appeal after following the prescribed procedure.”The committee included prof Mohammad Naved, convenor ranking committee,prof Pcrvez Mustajab, dean, faculty of engineering & technology, prof lkram Khan, chairman, department of electronics engineering, prof lmtiyaz Ashraf, department of electrical engineering, prof MM Sufyan Beg, principal, ZH College of Engineering & Technology, prof Asad Ullah Khan, director, IQAC and prof Rizwan Khan, former director, IQAC.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/amu-to-file-appeal-on-naac-grading-101639592681518.html
15-12-2021||Delhi||JNU faculty alleges irregularities in PhD admissions||New Delhi: A group of Jawaharlal Nehru University (JNU) faculty members has written to the chancellor on Tuesday alleging “irregularities” in the interview process for the selection of PhD candidates this year, and sought an “impartial” inquiry in the matter.The letter comes three days after the JNU students’ union (JNUSU) on Sunday alleged that several candidates from “marginalised sections” who appeared for the interview were given “very low” marks. According to the JNU admission policy, candidates seeking admission in PhD courses have to appear for a viva-voce or interview after clearing an entrance exam. The entrance exam and viva have 70:30 weightage. In a letter to the JNU chancellor VK Saraswat on Tuesday, six faculty members from the University’s Centre for Economic Studies and Planning (CESP) in the school of social sciences (SSS), said, “The undersigned faculty seek your urgent immediate intervention to ensure an impartial enquiry into the way that the viva-voce/interview process for selection of candidates to the Centre’s PhD programme in the current academic year (2021-22) was organised, and to initiate steps for correcting any distortions in the selections that might have resulted from it.”The faculty members alleged that a completely “non-transparent and arbitrary process” was followed in the Center during both rounds of interviews, the first of which was held between October 26 and November 3, and second between November 25 and 27.None of the signatories to the letter wanted to be named. The vice-chancellor did not respond to messages seeking a comment. A senior university official, who asked not to be named, said, “Allegations will be looked into as per rules and procedures.”On Monday, JNU issued a statement and refuted allegations of discrimination in the interview process, and added that the institution follows “a fair, transparent and inclusive admission policy”.In the letter, the faculty membes also cited an example of a candidate who had done a postgraduate programme from the concerned Center and topped his batch, but did not get through the PhD interview. “This candidate was interviewed in the first round after successfully clearing the UFC’s JRF Examination. However, he did not make the final list of admissions because the average marks he secured in the interview (as announced in the result notified to him) were low,”the faculty members said in the letter.“Three of the five faculty members who were on the board which interviewed him, then went on record before the entire faculty and the chairperson expressing their astonishment at his average mark because they recalled his excellent performance in the interview and that they had awarded him high marks However, on this matter too there has been no response from the chairperson and no explanation has been forthcoming,” they said in the letter.When contacted, chairperson of the Center Shakti Kumar said, “The center followed all the norms and took every measure to keep the interview process transparent. We give average marks given by all committee members during the interview process.”In its statement on Monday, the JNU said, “The JNU categorically rejects the reports in certain sections of media alleging discrimination against PhD aspirants from marginalised sections of the society.... The university follows a fair, transparent and inclusive admission policy which is the foundation of its proven academic excellence.”
15-12-2021||Pune||Covid: Pune district sees 235 new cases, 5 deaths||Pune: As of Wednesday, Pune district reported 235 new Covid-19 cases and five deaths due to the infection. This took the progressive count to 1.16 million of which 1.14 million have recovered, 20,104 deaths and 1,647 are active cases currently in hospital undergoing treatment or in home isolation. Pune also saw over 43,000 doses of vaccinations on the day. As per the state health department, Pune rural reported 73 new Covid cases which took the progressive count to 368,722 and the death toll went up to 7,004 as two more deaths were reported. Pune city reported 118 new Covid cases which took the progressive count to 524,207 and the death toll went up to 9,232 as two more deaths were reported. PCMC reported 44 new Covid cases and the progressive count went up to 270,386 and the toll stood at 3,518 as one more death was reported in the district on the day. As of Wednesday, 929 patients were discharged on the day taking the total to 6,494,617 Covid patients discharged after full recovery until the day. The recovery rate in the state is 97.72%. Also, 925 new cases and 10 more Covid deaths were reported in the state on Wednesday. The case fatality rate is the state is 2.12%. Of 67,182,510 laboratory samples 6,646,061 have been tested positive (9.89%) for Covid until Wednesday. Currently, 75,868 people are in home quarantine and 864 people are in institutional quarantine. Pune district also saw 43,317 vaccinations on the day as per the Co-WIN dashboard on Wednesday and in total 14,373,904. Of which, 8,516,999 are first doses and 5,856,905 are second doses. A total of 582 sites saw vaccination of which 423 were government centres and 159 were private.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/covid-pune-district-sees-235-new-cases-5-deaths-101639592617679.html
15-12-2021||Pune||Docs see lack of vitamin D as key driver of winter spike in arthritis cases||PUNE Winter can be especially harsh for those who suffer from arthritis. As the winter season kicks in, Dr Vishwajeet Chavan, orthopaedic surgeon at Apollo Spectra Pune said, “Usually about 70 patients with arthritis visit the outpatient department every month. However, since the onset of the cold, the number of patients has increased, and now 85 to 90 patients are complaining of joint pain in the age group of 55 to 80.” “Women are more prone to joint pain in winter than men. Hence, joint pain is 5% higher in women than in men. Hot water compression is a temporary relief. Cover your hands, knees, legs, and all arthritis-prone areas by dressing in layers. Stay hydrated as dehydration can make you more sensitive to pain. Don’t forget to exercise indoors to improve the symptoms like joint stiffness and muscle weakness, and also take warm showers,” Dr Chavan suggested, addng, “We also suggest that patients eat omega-3 fatty acids to lower inflammation in the joints and add avocado, flaxseeds, walnuts, and fish to the diet.”“Some of the strict no-nos are, stress which triggers arthritis pain, yoga and meditation can also help. Low levels of vitamin D might lead to arthritis pain and so a vitamin D supplement could be added but only after consulting the doctor. Avoid heavily processed, sugary and fried foods, alcohol, and colas that trigger joint pain,” he added. Dr Ashish Suryavanshi, orthopaedic at Lokmanya Hospital, Pune said, “I am seeing a 25% rise in cases this year as compared to last year, mostly in women above the age of 50 years, compared to men. There are more muscle spasms in colder temperatures leading to joint pain. The cold climate reduces blood circulation to the fingers and toes, which also causes arthritis pain. Less sunlight during winters can lead to lower vitamin D levels and weakened joints. Thus, many rheumatoid arthritis patients find it harder to control symptoms during chilly days.” Dr Aashish Arbat, orthopaedic surgeon at Jehangir Hospital, said, ‘‘The onset of winter will mean a long battle for patients having arthritis as they will have to deal with daily aches and joint pain and discomfort. Those patients with existing rheumatoid arthritis will witness worsened joint pain during winter.”“Joint pain and stiffness is commonly seen in arthritis patients owing to an unexpected drop in the barometric pressure (the pressure of the air) that aggravates joint problems. One’s tendons and muscles tend to expand and contract leading to joint pain due to changes that occur in the barometric pressure. Even the fluid present in the joints can become thick causing stiffness due to the sudden fall in the temperature. There is around 30-40% rise in the number of arthritis cases during winter, and some patients may also require surgery,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/docs-see-lack-of-vitamin-d-as-key-driver-of-winter-spike-in-arthritis-cases-101639592497625.html
15-12-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana Central Jail: Seven mobile phones recovered from seven inmates||Seven mobile phones were recovered from seven inmates of Ludhiana central jail during a special checking. Based on the complaint of assistant jail superintendent Sukhdev Singh, the Division Number 7 police on Wednesday lodged an FIR against the accused– Sohan Lal, Jagjit Singh, Baljinder Singh, Gurvinder Singh, Malkit Singh, Sohan Lal and Amandeep under section 52 A (1) of Prison Act.Assistant sub-inspector (ASI) Paramjit Singh, who is investigating the case, said police will bring the accused on a production warrant for questioning to know how they managed to get mobile phones inside the prison.Past incidents On October 11, five mobile phones were recovered from four inmates.On September 27, a mobile phone, two SIM cards, a battery and tobacco sachets were recovered from six inmates.On September 2, seven mobile phones and six sachets of tobacco were recovered from eight inmates.On August 7, four mobile phones were recovered from four inmates.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-central-jail-seven-mobile-phones-recovered-from-seven-inmates-101639592382473.html
15-12-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana girl Namya Joshi gets Global Child Prodigy Award||Namya Joshi, a Class 9 student of Sat Paul Mittal School, was on Wednesday selected as one of the top 100 child prodigies across the globe and awarded with the Global Child Prodigy Award (GCPA) 2022.Namya was selected for her work under the category of technology. Earlier this year, she was honoured with Pradhan Mantri Rashtriya Bal Paruskar and also got selected for top 20 (U-20 category) awards by White Canvas India along with Brainfeed Education magazine. She is also endowed with Youngest Diana Award.GCPA aims to recognise and award top 100 child prodigies across the globe annually. The award ceremony will be held in the last week of February in Dubai.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-girl-namya-joshi-gets-global-child-prodigy-award-101639592198033.html
15-12-2021||Lucknow||Farmers return home in victory march, grand celebration in Sisauli||MEERUT The ‘Fateh Yatra’ of BKU leader Rakesh Tikait and his fellow farmers began from Ghazipur border on Wednesday morning and concluded in Tikait’s native town Sisauli in Muzaffarnagar late in the evening. To note, the farmers had been protesting at the Ghazipur border against the three contentious farm laws for 383 days. People welcomed and greeted the farmers returning home at different places in Modinagar, Partapur, Sivaya toll plaza, Khatauli in Ghaziabad, Meerut and Muzaffarnagar. The jubilant farmers showered flowers on Tikait and at many places they danced to celebrate their victory. Speaking to mediapersons at Sivaya toll plaza, Tikait said “ It was the victory of all who supported farmers and their movement in the past 383 days” and reminded that the movement had been stalled, not ended. “We have given the government time till January 15 to execute what it agreed to in proposal given to farmers,” said Tikait and asked farmers to go and celebrate in their villages. Tikait’s cavalcade first went to Siram village in Muzaffarnagar where he visited the Chaupal of Sarvkhap Panchayat, which has historical significance in Khap system. Many historical decisions have been given from this Chaupal in the past centuries. A’ Sadbhavna Santi’ programme was also organised in Hadauli village where five farmers were given Mahendra Singh Tikait Sadbhavna Puraskar for their contribution in establishing harmony among people. Villagers have started this award from this year to recognize peoples’ contribution in encouraging harmony and brotherhood in society. Tikait participated in the programme as chief guest along with his elder brother and BKU chief Naresh Tikait who is also chaudhary of Baliyan Khap. The main function was organised at BKU’s headquarters ‘ Kisan Bhawan’ in Sisauli which is also the native place of the Tikait family. It was Naresh Tikait’s birthday, hence people also wished the elder Tikait along with celebrationof farmers’ victory. Kisan Bhawan was illuminated and decorated with flowers to make the celebration a memorable one and 1100 kgs ‘laddoos’ were prepared to be distributed among visitors. Rakesh Tikait had taken an oath that ‘ Bill vaapsi bina ghar vaapsi nahi’ and he kept his word by not visiting his home in the past 383 days during the movement. He attended the Mahapanchayat of Muzaffarnagar on October 5 but didn’t go to his home in Muzaffarnagar. He will return home on Thursday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/farmers-return-home-in-victory-march-grand-celebration-in-sisauli-101639592077669.html
15-12-2021||Lucknow||Yogi launches BJP campaign to seek people’s suggestions ahead of UP polls||Chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Wednesday launched the Bharatiya Janata Party’s (BJP) people-connect campaign “UP number 1 - sujhaav aapka, sankalp hamara (your suggestions, our commitment)” to seek suggestions for the party manifesto ahead of the UP polls. As part of the campaign, the BJP would seek people’s views by placing nearly a lakh “suggestion bins” called “akansha petis” in each of the 403 assembly constituencies in Uttar Pradesh where the assembly polls are due early next year.The suggestions put in the “akansha petis” would be collated and eventually find a place in the party’s “sankalp patra” (manifesto) for the 2022 UP polls, Yogi said. The underlying message, BJP leaders said, was that the party was confident of coming back to power and that is why it was assuring people about honouring their suggestions. Like in 2017, the BJP has named its manifesto “Lok Kalyan Sankalp Patra” this time too.“The word sankalp is an irrevocable commitment. It is not a mere announcement. That is why in 2017 we decided to name the manifesto as our Lok Kalyan Sankalp Patra and fulfilled all the commitments that were incorporated therein,” Yogi said at the launch of the campaign. “People would also be invited to drop in their suggestion by email or on WhatsApp,” said senior minister and party veteran Suresh Khanna. “I must credit Prime Minister Narendra Modi and chief minister Yogi Adityanath with changing the age-old perception and restoring UP’s pride,” Khanna said. Playing on the word “farq saaf hai (difference is clear)” that is part of the BJP’s campaign catchline, Adityanath said the perception about the government changed drastically since his party came to power. “That is why we say confidently ‘farq saaf hai’,” he said while accusing the previous governments of “aastha ke prateekon ka aapmaan (insult to religious symbols).” Yogi also spoke of how his government had ensured an end to cattle smuggling and cow slaughter that had become rampant under previous governments. Khanna heads the manifesto committee. Its members include Lok Sabha MPs Rita Bahuguna Joshi and Rajesh Verma, Rajya Sabha MPs Brij Lal, Kanta Kardam, Seema Dwivedi and Vijay Pal Singh Tomer, minister of state Atul Garg and UP BJP vice president and lawmaker AK Sharma. Barring Brij Lal and Joshi, who couldn’t make it due to prior commitments, other members of the committee were present.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/yogi-launches-bjp-campaign-to-seek-people-s-suggestions-ahead-of-up-polls-101639592019034.html
15-12-2021||Pune||PMC to operate 4 shelter homes with help from NGOs||PUNE The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) plans to run shelters for homeless people with the help of some non-governmental organisations.These homes have been operational for the last many years, but contracts with previous agencies are now over. The PMC has decided to run it themselves with the help of NGOs.Standing committee chairman Hemant Rasane said, “Four shelter homes are operational at Yerawada, Sena Dutta police chowky, Bopodi and at Pune station. The shelter homes will be run with the help of the John Paul Slum Development, OBC Seva Sangh, Janhvi Foundation and Aksharshrusti Library.”Rasane said that it is expected that the state government will give financial aid, failing which PMC funds will be utilised.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pmc-to-operate-4-shelter-homes-with-help-from-ngos-101639591897576.html
15-12-2021||Lucknow||Yogi hikes honorarium of panchayat representatives||Lucknow: Showering largesse on the three-tier panchayats and their representatives ahead of the assembly elections in Uttar Pradesh, chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Wednesday announced hike in the monthly honorarium of village pradhans, kshetra panchayat chairpersons and zila panchayat chiefs as well as members at all the three levels. He made this and many other announcements while addressing a strong gathering of panchayat representatives during a village panchayat conference held to honour 356 village panchayats for their excellent work. He also dedicated 42478 new panchayat bhawans that will function as village secretariats. “Now, we have decided to increase the monthly honorarium of village pradhans from the current ₹3,500 to ₹5,000, of kshetra panchayat chiefs from ₹9,800 to ₹11,300 and of zila panchayat chairpersons from ₹14,000 to ₹15,500,” the CM announced amid clapping and slogans of ‘Jai Shri Ram and ‘Bharat Mata Ki Jai’. He announced introduction of allowance for village panchayat members for the first time, fixing it at ₹100 per gram sabbha meeting with each village panchayat to hold 12 such meetings every year. The allowance of kshetra panchayat and zila panchayat members was increased from ₹500 to ₹1,000 per meeting (maximum 6 meetings a year) and from ₹1,000 to ₹1,500 per meeting (maximum six meetings a year) respectively. The CM also said that village pradhans would meet members of district planning committee in rotation and district magistrates and district police chiefs would hold meetings with village pradhans every three months to know their grievances and sort out the same. Constitution of village panchayat fund Yogi Adityanath said his government had decided to set up a ‘village panchayat fund’ to provide ex-gratia to dependents of panchayat representatives who died while holding the office. “If any of the village pradhans, kshetra panchayat chiefs, zila panchayat members die in harness, his/her family members/dependents will get an ex-gratia payment of ₹10 lakh from the village panchayat fund that will be set up soon,” the CM announced. “Similarly, family members of zila panchayat members, kshetra panchayat members and village panchayat members will get an ex-gratia of ₹5 lakh, ₹3 lakh and ₹2 lakh respectively,” he added. The CM also announced an increase in the maximum limit of financial expenditure per work from ₹2 lakh to ₹5 lakh for village panchayats and from ₹10 lakh to ₹25 lakh for zila panchayats. He further said that the government was going to introduce a new system under which village pradhans could clear payments for labour and material cost under the MGNRES through their digital signatures. “The ambitious project is being launched in villages under two development blocks on a pilot basis,” he said. The CM’s announcements just a month before the notification for the assembly polls in the state is being seen as a bid to woo pradhans and panchayat representatives who wield considerable influence over voters in villages. In UP, there are 58, 189 village panchayats and as many pradhans, more than 7 kakh village panchayat members, 826 kshetra panchayat chiefs and around 76,000 kshetra panchayat members, 75 zila panchayat chairpersons and over 3,000 zila panchayat members.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/yogi-hikes-honorarium-of-panchayat-representatives-101639591660651.html
15-12-2021||Pune||Union home minister Amit Shah in Pune on December 19||PUNE Union home and co-operative minister Amit Shah, will visit Pune city on December 19.Shah will visit the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) to inaugurate a statue of Dr Babasaheb Ambedkar, as well do the ground breaking for the installation of a statue of Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj.The Bharatiya Janata Party arranged a melawa (meeting) at Ganesh Kala Krida Manch with the home minister for party officials in the city.BJP city unit president Jagdish Mulik said, “Shah will address workers. It will increase the confidence of party workers to win more seats in the PMC elections.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/union-home-minister-amit-shah-in-pune-on-december-19-101639591659163.html
15-12-2021||Pune||Draw up Rs100 crore devp plan for Bhima Koregaon: social devp minister||PUNE Social welfare minister Dhananjay Munde on Wednesday formed a two-member - Pune district collector and social welfare commissioner Prashant Naranware - to prepare a detail development plan for the development of the Bhima Koregaon Vijaystambh.At a review meeting of the preparation for “Shaurya Din” (Victory Day), observed on January 1 at Bhima Koregaon, held on Wednesdayat Mantralaya, Munde said, “Prepare a Detail Development Plan for the Bhima Koregaon Vijaystambh Development. The plan will have basic infrastructure, gardening, decoration and other related works, along with land acquisition. The plan should not exceed Rs100 crore.”To manage to celebrations of Shaurya Din at Bhima Koregaon this year, he appointed the district collector, social justice commissioner, Pune Police commissioner and one rural police officer. Social justice department secretary Jayashree Mukharjee, social welfare commissioner Naranware, Pune collector Deshmukh, additional police commissioner Ravindra Shisve, and Pune rural police officer Abinav Deshmukh were present at the meeting.The social welfare department announced that all short-term and long-term works at Bhima Koregaon would be carried out by them from here onwards||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/draw-up-rs100-crore-devp-plan-for-bhima-koregaon-social-devp-minister-101639591419386.html
15-12-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana: Foundation stone laid for refined oil plant in Khanna||Cabinet minister Gurkirat Singh Kotli on Wednesday laid the foundation stone of Markfed’s advanced plant for vanaspati and refined oil. The plant will be constructed at an estimated cost of ₹23 crore.Payal MLA Lakhvir Singh Lakha, additional chief secretary Anurag Agarwal, managing director of Markfed Varun Roojam, Zila Parishad chairman Yadwinder Singh Jandiali along with senior officials of Markfed were present on the occasion.Kotli, while interacting with media persons, said the plant will be built using advanced technology which will ensure the production of quality oil. Also, it will increase the quantity of oil production in addition to giving employment to more people.“The Markfed plant in Khanna is more than five decades old and it was the need of the hour to upgrade it. Keeping in mind the strengthening of brand name and producing oil in accordance with the needs of the consumer, Punjab government has decided to build a plant equivalent to the capacity of a physical refinery which will produce 100 metric tonnes of Vanaspati and 110 metric tonnes of palm oil, added the minister. The work will be completed in 15 months” said Kotli.He further stated that with the probability of increased capacity of oil production, the state government is trying to collaborate with the governments of other states of India.At the same time the farmers in Punjab can derive benefits by processing the original oil seeds of Punjab and Markfed will make sure that these oil seeds are procured from them.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-foundation-stone-laid-for-refined-oil-plant-in-khanna-101639591417782.html
15-12-2021||Pune||18 of 36 districts in state are seeing a surge in Covid-19 cases: centre||PUNE The central government has written to Maharashtra’s health department stating that 18 of 36 districts in the state are witnessing a surge in the weekly Covid-19 caseload. Mumbai district is reporting a quantum of these weekly new cases. This has pushed the overall state numbers from 4,116 new cases in the week ending December 3, to 4,456 new cases in the week ending December 10. In the past 30 days, between November 10 to December 10, Maharashtra recorded 22,348 new cases, 7.8% of India’s monthly new cases, and 781 new deaths, 6.1% of India’s monthly death toll.Three districts in the state testing less than the recommended WHO daily testing protocol for tests per million, which is 140. These districts are Buldhana (88 tests), Nandurbar (121) and Yavatmal (130). Five districts in the state are reporting a decline in testing numbers, with Nandurbar reporting a 35.61% decline, week on week, said the centre. The centre has informed the state that there are multiple districts seeing a surge in the cases which is also concerning, and so a five-pronged approach is needed - test-track-treat-vaccinate-Covid appropriate behaviour. The letter written by Arti Ahuja, additional secretary of ministry of health and family welfare to Dr Pradeep Vyas additional chief secretary, ministry of health and family welfare, Maharashtra, highlights that there are 18 districts in the state witnessing a surge in the number of Covid-19 cases which is also driving the state figures. These 18 districts are Mumbai, Mumbai suburban, Satara, Nagpur, Sangli, Beed, Kolhapur, Jalna, Osmanabad, Parbhani, Yavatmal, Jalgaon, Buldhana, Amravati, Gadchiroli, Hingoli, Wardha and Bhandara which are reporting a surge. The highest number of new cases in the past two weeks are being reported from Mumbai which has seen an 8% rise in the number of new cases reported between December 3 and December 9, as compared to the previous week. The central government had asked all states to increase testing to bring down the positivity rate to as low as 0.5% on November 27, in the wake of the new variant of concern, Omicron. Manisha Khatri, district collector at Nandurbar district said, “In the past 4-5 days we have increased our testing to bring it up to 220 tests per million per day which is more than the recommended guidelines of World Health Organisation which recommends about 140 tests per day per million population. Nandurbar district has about 1.6 million population, including adults and children. We are conducting random tests among super spreaders and if found positive then their contacts as well. Most of the cases that we find are asymptomatic and do not require any hospitalisation.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/18-of-36-districts-in-state-are-seeing-a-surge-in-covid-19-cases-centre-101639591183513.html
15-12-2021||Chandigarh||PNB to pay Ludhiana man ₹3k for failing to issue refund for failed transaction||Failure to reverse money charged through a failed transaction has cost Punjab National Bank (PNB), Feroze Gandhi Market, dear.On the complaint of a city-based advocate, the District Consumer Disputes Redressal Commission, Ludhiana, has directed the bank to pay him a compensation of ₹3,000 and refund ₹329.22 debited by the bank.Through his complaint, advocate Ravi Choudhary had sought ₹5 lakh compensation for mental harassment, citing deficiency of services by Punjab National Bank; McDonald’s outlet, Ranjit Square, Gill village; and HDFC Bank Limited, Malerkotla Road, Ludhiana.Ravi had submitted that he bought food worth ₹329 from the said eating joint and paid the amount through his ATM card on July 17, 2017.However, when his ATM card, issued by PNB, was swiped, the transaction failed and the swipe machine generated a slip in this regard.Therefore, he paid the owed amount in cash. But after 12 minutes, Ravi received a message on his mobile phone that a sum of ₹329.22 was debited from his bank account.Ravi alleged that despite approaching the bank several times, the amount was not reversed in his account.The complainant also approached the food joint that told him that refunding the amount was the responsibility of the bank concerned.However, the counsel for PNB contended that when the card of the complainant was swiped, there must have been a fault in the swiping machine (point of sale terminal), for which HDFC bank was liable to be held responsible.The commission, in its order, observed that there was no deficiency of service on the part of the eating joint and it charged the amount in cash only when the ATM card transaction failed.It further stated that no case of deficiency of service stood proved against HDFC bank as it was not established on record that the machine was faulty.The commission, however, allowed the complaint against PNB. “The entry is not shown to have been reversed by PNB at any point of time nor has any evidence been led by the bank to show that this entry was reversed at some later stage. PNB has further not placed on record any document to prove that the amount of ₹329 debited in the account of the complainant was actually transferred in the account of the eating joint. In the absence of any documentary evidence on this fact, it has to be presumed that the complainant was made to pay the amount of ₹329.22 twice,” read the order.Pronouncing its order, the commission ordered PNB to refund ₹329.22 to the complainant and also pay ₹3,000 as compensation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/pnb-to-pay-ludhiana-man-3k-for-failing-to-issue-refund-for-failed-transaction-101639591117656.html
15-12-2021||Pune||Special schools want specific guidelines for classes reopening||PUNE Even as schools reopen from Thursday, schools for students with special needs are in a fix, as there is no clarification about these reopening, of standard operating procedures (SOPs) for these schools to function. Schools and parents across the city note that offline schools are important for special students and permission should be given to reopen.Roopa Salvi, a city-based special educator and counsellor said that offline schooling is important for special children, but keeping them safe is a very difficult task.“For special students with conditions like Down syndrome, cerebral palsy and other forms of intelligence disability, it becomes difficult to make them wear masks and use sanitisation. Some students cannot wear masks due to their condition. These students also have weaker immunity and so keeping them safe is altogether difficult and important,” said Salvi. She added that online classes for special students are not very helpful either.“These students have a very short attention span. Making them sit in front of the phone for online lectures is not easy. Parents have had so many problems in the last year. In schools special students learn social skills and how-to follow their routine. Due to the last pandemic, they are forced into a very uncomfortable situation. And we teachers have to start all over again if schools start offline,” said Salvi.Sadhana Godbole, managing director, at Prasanna Autism Centre, said that special students need occupational and speech therapy which can prove more effective when done offline.“Autistic students who have borderline autism and learning disabilities are doing well with online classes, but that’s not the case with all students. And hence, offline classes are very important for special students. Autistic students need occupational therapy, speech therapy. These can be effective if the child comes to schools and has a proper routine. That hasn’t been possible due to the pandemic,” said Godbole.She added that if the government permits, offline classes will be resumed.“We are all prepared for the offline classes. We can take a class of at least 10 students and begin once the government permits. We are planning to teach on alternate days if the number of students increases. A proper directive can help special schools reopen, while following Covid-appropriate behaviour to keep the children safe,” said Godbole.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/special-schools-want-specific-guidelines-for-classes-reopening-101639590942010.html
15-12-2021||Pune||Schools reopen in Pune: Parent consent likely to affect student attendance||PUNE On Wednesday, the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) gave its nod to schools for Classes 1 to 7 to reopen from December 16. The notification issued on Wednesday said that schools will reopen with just 50 per cent attendance of students and parents consent is compulsory.Moreover, in its notification, PMC has made a RT PCR test compulsory for teaching and non-teaching staff who have received just one vaccination doseExperts noted that prominent schools with larger numbers of students will need a few days before reopening. Many schools affiliated with the Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) may reopen after their winter vacations.Covid-appropriate behaviour is also mandatory at schools with regular sanitisation, wearing of masks and social distancing. The notification has emphasised physical distancing of students.Harishchandra Gaikwad, president of the Pune district principals’ association, said that there are only two per cent of teaching and non-teaching staff are awaiting their second dose.“These staff members are adhering to guidelines issued by the PMC and getting their RT-PCR tests done. However, not all schools may reopen from Thursday. Some big schools with a larger number of students may need a day to two to get consent from parents ahead of starting. This may cause a delay of a day or two,” said Gaikwad.Medha Sinnarkar, principal, Laxmanrao Apte Prashal said, “We are starting from Thursday, but it is likely that the turnout of students will be less. We are starting school so that parents get confident enough to send their children. Many parents were concerned over the Omicron variant. It is going to take some time for parents.” CBSE and ICSE schools to reopen after winter vacationsAs CBSE semester 1 papers for Classes 10 and 12 are ongoing, many schools have decided to reopen for offline classes a little later, after getting parents’ consent.Speaking about the reopening, Arti Sharma, principal at Army Public School Khadki said that the schools will reopen after the winter vacations.“We are reopening schools post winter vacations, gradually. Right now offline classes for 8 to 12 are ongoing. And the semester exams for classes 10 and 12 will get over by December 22. After the winter vacation we are planning to start offline classes for Class 6 onwards. And then gradually allow lower standards to come to the school,” said Sharma.Officials at Pawar Public School which is affiliated to the Indian Certificate of Secondary Education (ICSE) board said that the examinations are ongoing.“The examination will end by December 22 and post that the winter vacation will start. The school will reopen in January first week after the winter vacation is over,” said Uday Dalvi, in charge of administration, Pawar Public school.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/schools-reopen-in-pune-parent-consent-likely-to-affect-student-attendance-101639590643298.html
15-12-2021||Other||After south Bihar, jab list in north Bihar clinic names PM, other celebs||SAHARSA: A week after irregularities in RT-PCR tests were detected in Arwal district in south Bihar, a health centre in north Bihar’s Saharsa district is now under the scanner for irregularities in the vaccination list, officials said. According to officials, the list of those who got vaccinated at the Nauhatta community health centre (CHC) in Saharsa includes names of Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Congress leader Rahul Gandhi, celebrity Rakhi Sawant, Ranu Mandal, Ranveer Kapoor besides Saharsa district magistrate (DM) Kaushal Kumar and Saharsa superintendent of police (SP) Lipi Singh.Taking strong note of the irregularities, Saharsa civil surgeon (CS) Awadhesh Kumar directed medical officer of Nauhatta CHC Dr Ramesh Kumar Singh to lodge an FIR against the hired data entry operator of the health centre Akhil Anand under the Disaster Management Act, IT Act and under section 186 (Obstructing public servant in discharge of public functions) of Indian Penal Code (IPC).“After lodging an FIR, we have started scrutinizing all the lists of both vaccination and RT-PCR tests which have been done,” Kumar said, adding, “Those found guilty will not be spared.”Terming the mistakes as ‘very serious’, he said that so far over 32 names have surfaced. However, he did not rule out the possibility of more names emerging during the investigation. The civil surgeon said that the data entry operator who was hired at per day salary of ₹450 has been sacked with immediate effect.The data entry operator, against whom an FIR has been lodged, accused the medical officer of the irregularities. “This has been done at the behest of the medical officer and health manager. I was made a scapegoat as I had complained against medical officer Dr Ramesh Kumar Singh and health manager Raj Kumar Singh to the civil surgeon after they demanded a bribe from me for the sake of continuation of my service.”Modus operandiFacing mounting pressure regarding vaccinations or RT-PCR tests, data entry operators, make entries of voter identity cards in place of Aadhaar cards to block the mobile message, said an expert.“It is quite easy to enter a false name with fake voter ID cards,” said Nitish Bhardwaj, an IT expert. “Ever since Aadhar cards were made optional, it became much easier,” he said, adding, “Voter ID cards are not linked with mobile numbers, and hence there arises no question of identifying the person whose entry is being made.”During the investigation, it was found that mobile numbers entered were either invalid or inaccessible. “The mobile number used in the name of Prime Minister is of one Rahul whose number is inaccessible,” investigating officials said, adding, “The numbers used for celebrities are invalid.”Sources within the health department said that facing immense pressure from superiors, juniors commit such glaring mistakes.Earlier, in south Bihar’s Arwal and Gaya districts, the list of RT-PCR conducted and the persons vaccinated contained the names of Prime Minister Narendra Modi, home minister Amit Shah, Congress president Sonia Gandhi and actress Priyanka Chopra . An FIR was lodged against the data entry operator, who was later dismissed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/after-south-bihar-jab-list-in-north-bihar-clinic-names-pm-other-celebs-101639590579866.html
15-12-2021||Pune||Sentient Labs demonstrates hydrogen fuel cell bus||PUNE Sentient Labs, a research and development innovation lab, demonstrated indigenously developed hydrogen fuel cell bus in Pune on Wednesday. The hydrogen fuel cell technology has been developed in collaboration with Council of Scientific and Industrial Research (CSIR), National Chemical Laboratory (NCL) and Central Electrochemical Research Institute (CECRI). Dr Raghunath Mashelkar, member of board of directors, Sentient Labs, said, “World over, efforts related to green hydrogen revolution are on, but Sentient Labs stands out. At Sentient, challenges that are core to India are understood, and solutions are developed. Digitisation, decentralisation and decarbonisation is what India needs for sustainable mobility and these innovations from Sentient will go a long way.” The fuel cell utilises hydrogen and air to generate electricity to power the bus, a statement released by Sentient stated. The only effluent from the bus is water, therefore making it possibly the most environmentally friendly mode of transportation. For comparison, a single diesel bus plying on long distance routes typically emits 100 tons of CO2 annually and there are over a million such buses in India.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/sentient-labs-demonstrates-hydrogen-fuel-cell-bus-101639590398230.html
15-12-2021||Patna||Despite revenue growth, state’s budget may not see substantial hike for next fiscal||PATNA: Despite the country’s economy showing signs of recovery with revenue generation improving in the current year, giving much of a breather to states in terms of higher central devolutions amid Covid pandemic, Bihar’s next year’s budget for the fiscal year 2022-23 may not see a substantial hike in terms of total budget size, officials said.According to people aware of the development, the budget size for the next fiscal year 2022-23 would be more or less the same as this fiscal year standing at ₹2.18 lakh crore, though it might be tweaked a bit depending much on the last six installments of central devolutions in next three months and figures of state’s internal revenue.“ Though there has been improvement in internal revenue this year from last year’s corresponding period, there is a big challenge of provisioning higher allocations owing to likely shortfall in central devolutions from state’s share in central taxes and grants,” said a state financial department person, aware of the development.The finance department has already held series of meetings with all departments to assess the funds required for various development works and committed expenditure ( non-plan) in a bid to draw up the final budget size by end of December or early January 2022.People aware of the development said that the state government has received ₹41,000 crore as state’s share in central taxes till November as against the projection of getting of ₹91,000 crore for the current fiscal year, 2021-22 ending March 2022.The state’s share in central taxes comes in 14 installments with three installments given in the month of March. In terms of grants in aid from the Centre, the state has received a sum of ₹19,000 crore so far as against the projection of ₹54,531 crore. People aware of the development said the state’s internal revenue is hovering around ₹25,000 to Rs30,000 crore till November against the target of generating ₹40,000 crore.Additional chief secretary ( ACS), finance S Siddharth, however, refused to comment on the likely budget size for the next fiscal year or about possibilities that the total budget size would remain same as the current year .The ACS, finance also informed that there would be pre-budget consultations with various stakeholders and representatives from industry and other sectors as like previous years. “ Yes, we have had meetings with departments on budget,” he added.
15-12-2021||Patna||EoU carries raid against suspended DSP in DA case||PATNA: The sleuths of economic offence unit (EoU) on Wednesday carried out simultaneous raids at 3 locations linked to suspended DSP Anup Kumar, who was earlier posted at Aurangabad district as sub divisional police officer (SDPO) , on charges of accumulating assets disproportionate to his known sources of income.The DSP owned over ₹85.77 lakh disproportionate assets (DA), which is 55 % more than his known sources of income. Kumar, a 1989 batch sub-inspector of police was later promoted as DSP. He is the 10th government officer who is facing a DA case after his name cropped in an illegal sand mining case and sheltering mafias.The EoU sleuths raided his residences at Bhoot Nath Road, Kankarbagh in Patna, native place at Nutan Nagar in Gaya and Lavkush apartment in Ranchi (Jharkhand).The raids were being conducted after a search warrant was issued by the Court of Special Judge, Vigilance in Patna, officials familiar with the development said.During the search, EoU found that the DSP bought a flat (1250 square feet) at Kumhrar in Patna, 6.25 decimal land in Phulwarisharif Mauza, residential plot (1200 square feet) at Nandlal Chhapra valued ₹75.68 lakh, and a flat on the name of his wife in Law Kush Apartment, Ratu Road (Ranchi). Estimation of other plots and land, owned by the couple, is being done by a technical unit of the EoU. The agency, however, could not find cash and valuables from the DSP’s residence and flats. “The agency knew it that they might not able to recover currencies and valuables as officers under the radar were trading more cautiously due to several raids and searches in the recent past”, said additional director general (EoU) Nayyar Husnain Khan, adding that his name cropped up during the inquiry by EoU when he was posted as sadar SDPO, Aurangabad, in connection with illegal sand mining case.The EoU also recovered bank passbooks, incriminating documents from the flats. As the raids are still underway, the exact disproportionate assets unearthed are yet to be ascertained..
15-12-2021||Lucknow||Sack MoS home: Akhilesh demands after SIT report on Lakhimpur case||Samajwadi Party (SP) president and former chief minister Akhilesh Yadav, on Wednesday, demanded that union minister of state for home Ajai Mishra Teni should be sacked, immediately, because the SIT report has proved that farmers killed in Lakhimpur Kheri violence under a conspiracy.“The truth has come to the fore after the SIT report. If there is any morality left in BJP, then it should immediately sack the minister of state for home,” the SP chief said.Ajay Mishra’s son Ashish Mishra is the main accused in the Lakhimpur Kheri violence in which eight people, including four farmers, were killed on October 3. The minister’s son has since been arrested, along with others.On the second day of his Vijay Rath Yatra in Jaunpur, Akhilesh addressed a huge crowd and alleged that it was people in BJP who hatched the conspiracy to crush the farmers to death.“As the election dates approach, the anger against BJP will increase. Fearing defeat, BJP leaders from other states will also come to Uttar Pradesh but to no avail,” he said.Akhilesh toured the five assembly constituencies in his ‘Vijay Rath Yatra’ in the second phase of the Jaunpur tour.He said that huge support to the yatra shows that the people want change in UP.“With the support of people, the cycle will remove the bull and the bulldozer,” Akhilesh said, adding, ”Every promise made by the BJP has turned out to be a jumla (rhetoric). The BJP’s advertisement is also false. The public will give a befitting reply to the BJP.”Akhilesh said that inflation and unemployment have increased under the BJP rule. “Today, the income of the public has halved, and the inflation has doubled. BJP’s promise of doubling farmers’ income turned out to be false. A farmer is not even getting the MSP rate for his crop. Unemployment is increasing continuously. This government is anti-poor and anti-farmer,” Akhilesh said.Akhilesh promised that if the SP comes to power formed after the 2022 Uttar Pradesh assembly elections, he will give the best law and order to the people of the state.“Strictest action will be taken against those who break the law. There will be no discrimination against anyone. Roads and mandis will be built. Schools, colleges and hospitals will be opened,” Akhilesh promised.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/sack-mos-home-akhilesh-demands-after-sit-report-on-lakhimpur-case-101639589977791.html
15-12-2021||Pune||Engineering admissions:Second merit list to be out on December 17||Pune - The first round of admissions for the first-year engineering students saw 24,904 students take admissions from the available 77,877 seats in the Maharashtra for the academic year 2021-22. Interestingly 43,635 students gave the ‘betterment’ option for colleges and went into second round for admission. The second list of engineering admissions will now be declared on December 17.As per the information given by the Maharashtra state Common Entrance Test (CET) cell, the first Common Admission Process (CAP) round got over on December 15 in which 24,904 students were admitted out of the total 77,877 available seats. After the CET results were declared, the admission process started, and compared to last year the number of student applications is higher this year. In this academic year 1,08,718 students have registered for the online admission process for engineering in the state as compared to last year’s 96,337 students.The total available seats in engineering colleges across the state for this academic year are 1,30,543 and in the first CAP round 1,00,072 students have given their preferences for colleges. Out of these, 10,721 students were given the college of their first preferences, while a total of 77,877 students were admitted in the first round. In order to get admission in the college of their choice, 43,635 students have gone for the next second round of admissions. “Many students who have not taken the admission in the first round are hoping to get admission in top-ranked colleges in the second round. But as the competition is hard, the seats in the prominent government as well as private engineering colleges get full in first two rounds only. This year the number of students applying for admissions is also high, so we expect to have good admission season this academic year,” said Prof Krushnath Jamabhale from a private engineering college. Now for the second CAP admission round, a total of 62,174 seats are available and its merit list will be declared on December 17. To confirm their admission, students must go to the college centre between December 18 and 21. “I received admission in a college which is far from my house and its fees were also high as it was a private college. So now I have given the second round option form and will hope to get a better college in the next round,” said Shamika Atre a student. BOXEngineering admissions for the academic year 2021-22Total no. of seats available - 1,30,54Total no. of applications - 1,31,450Students eligible for the first CAP round - 1,08,718Total no. of students got admission in first round - 77,877Total no. of seats available in second round - 62,174||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/engineering-admissions-second-merit-list-to-be-out-on-december-17-101639589737510.html
15-12-2021||Lucknow||Kendriya Vidyalayas of Prayagraj celebrate 59th foundation day||Kendriya Vidyalayas of Prayagraj joined their counterparts spread across the country and in three foreign locations — Moscow, Tehran and Kathmandu — to celebrate the 59th foundation day of KV Sangathan on Wednesday. Coming under the ambit of the Ministry of Education, KVS was founded on December 15, 1963, and today has around 1245 schools running under it.In one such event, held on the campus of KV Air Force Station, Manauri, principal of the school Shalini Dikshit was chief guest, while vice-principal Pradeep Kumar Mishra was the guest of honour.Students of the primary section presented an impressive chorus song of Kendriya Vidyalaya ‘Mera Kendriya Vidyalaya’ composed by UN Khaware, former additional commissioner, KVS, New Delhi. Pradeep Kumar Sharma, PGT Physics, presented a brief history of KVS, its aim, objectives and its relevance in the contemporary age. PK Mishra encouraged the children and staff members by highlighting the contribution of KVS during the COVID-19 pandemic. Principal Shalini Dikshit blessed the students and staff members by singing the KVS song ‘Bharat ka swarnim gaurav Kendriya Vidyalaya laayega’. A sapling was planted on the occasion, and a friendly cricket match, among the staff members, was also played. In another event, organised at KV, New Cantonment, the students made a sand art showing the national presence of the Sangathan and the KV’s. The principal of the school Suchitra, motivated the students to lead the society and the nation by becoming disciplined leaders. The sand art exhibition was inaugurated by one of the alumni of the Vidyalaya, Justice Rajesh Dayal Khare of Allahabad High Court. After the presentation of the Vidyalaya Geet, solo dance, and speech by teacher representative, the chief guest reflected upon the need to address the requirements of the society through education.The chief guest also felicitated the volunteer students of the sand art exhibition and the retired teachers of the Vidyalaya.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/kendriya-vidyalayas-of-prayagraj-celebrate-59th-foundation-day-101639589617753.html
15-12-2021||Pune||Crop insurance: Firms start payments, 35.81 lakh farmers benefit||PUNE As the unseasonal rain, cyclones have affected the 2021 kharif season, Agriculture commissionerate of Maharashtra has claimed that 75% of the crop insurance claimed under Pradhan Mantri Fasal Bima Yojana (PMFBY) have already been cleared. State agriculture commissioner Dheeraj Kumar said that ₹2,061 crore has been paid to 35.81 lakh beneficiaries. Total crop insurance claims amounting to ₹ 2,756 crore by 47.66 lakh farmers were raised in this season. According to officials, the disbursement of the compensation has been done quickly this year, as crops such as Tur are still yet to be harvested. “So far 75% of ₹2,756 crore have been disbursed by the crop insurance companies in the state. Remaining claims are also in the pipeline. The total calculated amount of crop insurance claims raised due to excessive rains, natural calamities such as cyclones drought is ₹2,756 crores. In March and April there were unseasonal rains. Then there was the Taukte cyclone. In September there were also high rains. So, the total amount of expected losses is expected to increase,” said Dheeraj Kumar, state agriculture commissioner. Crop insurance companies have been asked to pay the remaining compensations before Dec 20, 2021. A survey for 12,487 claims is yet to be done and compensation of ₹695 crores is yet to be given to the remaining 11.85 lakh beneficiaries. Dheeraj Kumar said that the overall work of general awareness for change in the cropping pattern will be beneficial to the farmers and by which less losses will be occurred is going on. “We have two policies under which work is being done on this issue. We are also trying to create general awareness about it. But it’s a huge field and it has to be done collectively. Factors such as NGOs, civic society, and the media should come together with the administration on these issues. There should also be acceptance from the farmers,” said Kumar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/crop-insurance-firms-start-payments-35-81-lakh-farmers-benefit-101639589506474.html
15-12-2021||Kolkata||TMC's Abhishek Banerjee mocks BJP over Kolkata's Durga Puja bagging UNESCO tag||TMC national general secretary Abhishek Banerjee Wednesday mocked the BJP over the city's Durga Puja bagging the UNESCO heritage tag, saying the saffron party’s "hoax" and "bigotry" during the assembly polls have been busted. The UNESCO on Wednesday accorded heritage status to Kolkata's Durga puja festival, bringing glory to the country, with Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee lauding the move. "Durga Puja in Kolkata has just been inscribed on the intangible heritage list. Congratulations, India," the organisation said in a tweet attaching a photo of the goddess with the hashtag' living heritage. Banerjee, who is also the nephew of West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee, took a dig at BJP's poll campaign during the assembly polls where it had accused the TMC government of not allowing Durga Puja in the state for the sake of vote bank politics. "Two minutes of silence for @AmitShah and all the tall leaders at@BJP4India who, during their pre-election political tours, HILARIOUSLY CLAIMED that DURGA PUJA IS NOT CELEBRATED IN WEST BENGAL. Your BIGOTRY and HOAX has been BUSTED; you stand EXPOSED YET AGAIN!" Banerjee tweeted.Reacting to Banerjee's tweet, BJP national vice-president Dilip Ghosh said though it is a proud moment for Bengal, the TMC indeed had tried to stop Durga Puja immersion. "We are all proud about it. It is a huge honour but at the same time, TMC should not forget that it had twice tried to stop Durga Puja immersion on Dashami as the dates of Muharram clashed with it. It is a fact," Ghosh said. The BJP, ahead of the assembly polls, had launched a campaign blitzkrieg with the saffron party leaders accusing the TMC government of not allowing Hindus to celebrate Durga Puja and observe its rituals properly in a bid to appease a certain section of people to pursue vote-bank politics.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/tmcs-abhishek-banerjee-mocks-bjp-over-kolkata-s-durga-puja-bagging-unesco-tag-101639588864272.html
15-12-2021||Patna||Spousal violence high among husbands who get drunk in dry Bihar||PATNA: Prevalence of spousal violence against women is as high as 83% among husbands who often get drunk in dry Bihar, says the National Family Health Survey (NFHS-5), 2019-20. The Bihar state report of NFHS-5 was released in Patna on Wednesday. The spousal violence prevalence reduced to 60% among husbands who got drunk sometimes, 43% in case of those who drink but never get drunk, and 34% in case of husbands who never get drunk, said Prof SK Singh of the International Institute for Population Sciences, Mumbai, which undertook the survey, and also the principal investigator of NFHS-5. “Around 15% of ever-married women reported that their husband drinks. The percentage of such men was, however, lower than many states due to prohibition in Bihar,” said Singh. Bihar introduced total prohibition on April 4, 2016. Most of the women who said their husband drink were from districts sharing boundary with Jharkhand, Uttar Pradesh and Nepal, he added. “We have analysed the availability of liquor in dry Bihar to two main reasons. First, liquor was flowing from border districts of Jharkhand, UP and Nepal. Secondly, country liquor was traditionally and culturally prevalent and home-brewed in districts having tribal population, sharing borders with Jharkhand,” said Singh. Bihar was second only to Karnataka (44%), as 40% of married women between 18 and 49 years were exposed to spousal violence, he added. Bihar and Manipur, with 40% married women each, were the two states reporting higher spousal violence over the last many years even as Bihar had shown a decline from 43% since NFHS-4 (2015-16), said Singh. Husband’s schooling also had a direct correlation, as 44% of those who indulged in spousal violence never went to school. The incidence reduced to 30% in case of husbands who had completed 12 or more years of schooling, the NFHS survey said. Even among women who have at least 12 years of education, more than one-quarter (28%) have experienced such violence. Only 1 in 9 women (11%) who have experienced violence have sought help to end the violence. Among the reasons respondents cited, justifying wife beating, included woman going out without informing her husband, neglecting the house or children, arguing with husband, refusing to have sexual intercourse with husband, not cooking properly, suspicion of infidelity, and showing disrespect for in-laws. As high as 55% of ever-married women cited 3 or 4 reasons above for wife beating, while 40% attributed it to all seven reasons. Among those ever subjected to spousal violence, 55% women were afraid of their husbands most of the time, 39% occasionally and 27% were never afraid, the survey said. Early marriage continues to be prevalent in Bihar – more than two-fifths (41%) of women aged 20-24 years got married before 18 years, the legal minimum age of marriage, almost unchanged in the four years since NFHS-4 (2015-16). Almost one-third (31%) of men aged 25-29 years got married before the legal minimum age of 21 at marriage, down from 35% in NFHS-4. 
15-12-2021||Lucknow||Prayagraj Magh Mela-2022: Labourer feared drowned||A labourer engaged in the construction of a pontoon bridge ahead of Magh Mela-2022 drowned after he fell in Ganga while working on the banks of Sangam on Tuesday. The water police and state disaster relief force (SDRF) teams were engaged in the search for the labourer, but he could not be found till reports last came in. The other labourers staged a protest over the incident.According to reports, a group of labourers were engaged in the construction of Gangotri Shivala pontoon bridge. A resident of Jhunsi area, Arun Nishad, 28, was among the labourers and was working on top of the bridge. Suddenly, his foot slipped, and he fell into the river at around 9:30 am. Arun tried to come out but was swept away by the strong current of the river. Other labourers tried to rescue Arun but failed. Water police and SDRF teams launched a search operation for finding Arun. Meanwhile, other labourers stopped the work and staged a protest demanding compensation to Arun’s kin. Senior officials reached the spot and pacified them. Water police in-charge Kadedeen Yadav said efforts are still underway to locate the labourer.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/prayagraj-magh-mela-2022-labourer-feared-drowned-101639589317690.html
15-12-2021||Pune||Pune man arrested for stealing hard disks from major firm||PUNE A worker at a major automobile equipment manufacturing industrial chain company was arrested for stealing hard disks from the company computers.The arrested man is a 21-year-old resident of Belekar Vasti in Manjru area of Pune.A complaint in the case was lodged by a 53-year-old man who works as the associate vice president of internal relations and administration at the company.In December, the complainant found that his hard disk from his work computer had been missing. Upon checking the CCTV footage of the office floor, the man found the accused to have taken it while nobody was watching. He confronted the accused who allegedly confessed to have stolen not just that one hard disk, but also two other hard disks from the computers in another department, according to the police. The CCTV of that theft was also recovered by the complainant.A case under Sections 381 of Indian Penal Code has been registered at Mundhwa police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pune-man-arrested-for-stealing-hard-disks-from-major-firm-101639589197308.html
15-12-2021||Pune||Pimpri-Chinchwad police invoke Official Secrets Act against job fraud suspects||PUNE The Pimpri-Chinchwad police has invoked the Official Secrets Act (OSA) against three men who are suspected of having duped a man from Pimpri-Chinchwad by falsely promising job in the Indian Air Force .This is not the first time that the Pimpri-Chinchwad police have invoked the Official Secrets Act, this Act has been invoked in domestic crimes. There are three other examples of such cases in the past 13 months alone.According to the police, the complainant lives in Ramnagar area of Pimpri-Chinchwad. He claims to have been duped of ₹ 6 lakh.“They misused the emblem of the Indian Air Force with an intention of cheating people. That is a serious crime and that is why we have invoked the Official Secrets Act,” said assistant police inspector Ganesh Londhe of Pimpri police station who is investigating the case.In September 2017, the complainant met one of the accused who offered to get him a job with the Indian Air Force. Since then, the complainant has allegedly made multiple transactions as and when the accused asked him to. The accused, meanwhile made an email ID that reads similar to that of email IDs used by the Indian Air Force. The accused used the emblem of the Indian Air Force to forge documents that had the complainant believe that he was getting a job in the armed force, said officials.A case under Sections 420, 419, 465, 467, 468, 471,and 34 of the Indian Penal Code along with Section 66(d) of Information Technology Act and Section 6 of Official Secrets Act, 1923 has been registered at Pimpri police station.Other casesIn October 2020, a man with a history of crimes was booked under OSA for recording a video inside a police station in PImpri-Chinchwad police jurisdiction. A case was registered against him at Dehuroad police station.In November 2020, a Nepalese woman was booked under OSA when she was found living illegally with a Captain-rank officer studying and living at the College of Military Engineering. A case was registered against her at Bhosari police station.In April 2021, a man who had complained on the police helpline about establishments remaining open during lockdown, was also booked for recording the happenings at the Mhalunge police outpost.The OSA is invoked in cases of serious threat to national security. Indian police service officer Rashmi Shukla, who is the former commissioner of Pune police, is facing threat of a case under OSA for allegedly recording phone conversations of multiple ministers while she was posted as the Additional director general of police of the State intelligence department.In another example of when the OSA is invoked is the case of the Indian Navy officer who was accused of espionage of naval purchase details.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pimprichinchwad-police-invoke-official-secrets-act-against-job-fraud-suspects-101639588957205.html
15-12-2021||Pune||Cops draw on new CSI career with this SPPU course penned down||PUNE Last year, Savitribai Phule Pune University (SPPU) and state Crime Investigation Department (CID) started a course for the sketches of the suspects at the ‘Portrait Building Section’. The second batch of this course passed out on Wednesday. Earlier this year this course was launched by SPPU with Prof Girish Charwad who holds a PhD in ‘Contribution of sketching in crime investigation’. SPPU vice-chancellor Prof Nitin Karmalkar handed out the certificates. CID department head Ritesh Kumar, additional director general of police (prisons) Atulchandra Kulkarni and other senior police and university officials were present at the event. Talking on this occasion Kumar said, “We are happy that through this course policemen are learning new techniques and it should be used for the benefit of the society. This will be beneficial in their day-to-day duty. Around 1,200 policemen are now interested to join this course and are in waiting list.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/cops-draw-on-new-csi-career-with-this-sppu-course-penned-down-101639588717778.html
15-12-2021||Pune||28-year-old killed as bike rams into divider in Pune||PUNE: A 28-year-old man died after the two-wheeler he was riding on rammed into a road divider in Market yard area of Pune on Tuesday.The deceased man has been identified as Suraj Kailas Takalkar, 28, a resident of Defence colony in Lullanagar area of Market yard, while the man riding pillion with him has been identified as Kedar Jayant Bhosale, 28, a resident of Ambedkarnagar in Khadimachine area of Kondhwa.Takalkar was riding on a two-wheeler with Bhosale riding pillion with him around 12:15 am on Tuesday along the road connecting Seven Loves chowk with Sonawane hospital chowk. The rider was speeding towards Jawaharlal nehru road when the bike hit a speed-breaker and toppled before landing on a speed breaker, according to the police.A case under Sections 304(a), 337, 427 of Indian Penal Code along with Section 184 and 119/177 of Motor Vehicle Act has been registered at Khadak police station. Assistant police inspector Chandrakant Gosavi is investigating the case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/28yearold-killed-as-bike-rams-into-divider-in-pune-101639588417649.html
15-12-2021||Pune||Pune Consumer Court asks ed-tech company to pay ₹50K compensation to customer||PUNE The Pune District Consumer Disputes Redressal Commission has pulled up educational technology company BYJU’s and its brand ambassador Shahrukh Khan for not providing education services after accepting the payment to a consumer. The victim identified as Supriya Neralkar of Chinchwad had filed the complaint through advocate Pavankumar Bhansali stating that BYJU’s learning application accepted ₹15,000 through online payment for the education course of her child for classes 4 to 12 and was asked to pay the remaining amount of ₹ 1,10,000 through EMIs. The company had promised to refund the amount if the course was not according to her requirements, however, when she asked to refund the ₹15,000 the company refused. Also, BYJU’s had already taken a ₹ 1.1 lakh loan without her consent, the complaint stated.Despite repeated reminders and notices, when BYJU’s did not refund the amount and took back their K-12 Lenovo Tablet, Neralkar moved to the consumer forum in March 2019. The case was filed against BYJU’s the learning app, Think and Learn Pvt Ltd, Raveendran Byju, Riju Raveendran, Divya Gokulnath and actor Shahrukh Khan. The court also issued notices to them but they neither appeared nor sent any representative.After going through the documents submitted by the complainant, the forum decided the case and directed BYJU’s and others to refund ₹15,000 with nine per cent interest since October 14, 2018, the date when she had made the payment. Additionally, the forum has ordered the company and others to pay ₹ 50,000 as compensation.The court has also directed the company to submit a No Objection Certificate (NOC) to ensure that the loan amount against the Neralkar is paid and she is not required to pay future EMIs.HT tried to get in touch with BYJU’s, however, no response was received.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pune-consumer-court-asks-ed-tech-company-to-pay-rs-50k-compensation-to-customer-101639587756753.html
15-12-2021||Lucknow||Licensed shop salesmen held for selling illegal liquor in Prayagraj||Shankargarh police arrested two salesmen of a licensed country liquor shop involved in selling illegal liquor in bottles of branded country liquor, on Wednesday.Forty pouches of illegal liquor, 90 bar codes, 101 corks, 67 empty bottles, cash ₹11,100 and a bike were recovered from them. The duo-- Raghvendra Jaiswal of Manda and Rahul Kesarwani of Ghoorpur area of Prayagraj-- said the owner of the shop instructed them to sell illegal liquor for making more profits.SP trans-Yamuna Saurabh Dixit said acting on a tip-off, joint teams of excise department under inspector Ashutosh Kumar Upadhyay and police under SHO of Shankargarh police station Brajesh Singh carried out raid at Gadamar Mod on Wednesday. The duo said shop owner Satish Kumar Singh of Koraon area used to bring bar codes, corks etc. Then they used to mix liquor with water and fill them in bottles with fake bar codes and corks. An FIR has been lodged against the accused under Excise Act and other relevant sections of IPC. A report has been forwarded to senior officials for cancellation of license of the shop.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/licensed-shop-salesmen-held-for-selling-illegal-liquor-in-prayagraj-101639587157583.html
15-12-2021||Pune||Builders’ welcome PMCs solution of free treated water, but transport is expensive||PUNE To promote the zero liquid discharge policy, the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) started a free service of giving sewage treatment plant (STP) treated grey water for construction sites to avoid wastage of potable drinking water. While many construction developers have welcomed this idea, the PMC themselves are yet to begin using it for their construction. As part of the PMC’s plan to reduce water usage in the city, municipal commissioner Vikram Kumar recently gave green signal to the water department to give treated water free of cost to construction sites but charge them for transport or they should arrange their own. The city has 10 STPs that create 567 MLD of treated water, which is mostly released in the rivers. Everyday there are more than 100 tankers taking potable water to various construction sites in the city, thus to stop the wastage of both the treated water and potable drinking water, PMC arrived at this decision after having talks with the representatives of the construction industry. “We had the treated water checked for the PH levels in a laboratory which said in its report that is good for using this for construction sites. Potable water is used in plenty during construction for getting better concrete results, especially during curing, but looking at the amount of water being used and wasted, we have suggested this to the construction industry,” said Anirudh Pawaskar, head, water department, PMC. He added, “The ground water is depleting and there is a need for saving water,hence after a lot of deliberations, and meetings with the commissioner, we decided to get the STP treated water checked and to our surprise the result of the tests informed that this water could easily be used in construction industry, where lot of water is needed. Thus we decided to take the first step and today passed a circular for our departments like Roads, building permission to use this water for construction. This is PMC initiative and we will show that this water will indeed help save potable water from being wasted.”Ranjit Naiknavare, of Naiknavare Associates, vice-president, Credai, Pune said, “We are using the STP treated water in our construction sites in Balewadi, Vimannagar and other areas but mostly for curing and masonry work. Usually, it is the norm to use potable drinking water for concreting works for better results but we are happy so far with the decision.” Satish Magar, CMD Magarpatta City and chairman Credai National said, “We have always used STP treated water while constructing the townships. Infact, we welcome this move by PMC and it is a good decision for large construction sites, only drawback being the mounting expenses of sending tankers to fill up the water from the STPs, which is expensive and time consuming.” “STP treated water from a residential project which conforms to prescribed standards would be suitable for use in curing of concrete work and brick work. It would be also suitable for manufacturing fly-ash bricks. It can also be used for curing concrete roads. It is widely used in gardening, toilet flushing and pavement washing thus reducing dependency on fresh potable water. One must remember STP treated water is not suitable for human consumption. In order to encourage housing complexes to save water, electricity to STP should be provided at subsidized rates,” said Manish Kaneria, Mont Vert homesMeanwhile, both Public Works Department (PWD) and building permission department of PMC are yet make use of the free service. Shivaji Lanke, head of building permission said, “We had a meeting today and the circular was passed to begin using the STP water for construction of any of the PMC buildings. We will begin soon enough after circulating the circular among the contractors that work with us.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/builders-welcome-pmcs-solution-of-free-treated-water-but-transport-is-expensive-101639586976937.html
15-12-2021||Mumbai||No leeway for X’mas NY bashes yet||Mumbai: With the outbreak of the Omicron variant ahead of Christmas and New Year celebrations, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) plans to strictly enforce Covid-19 norms with regards to hotels, restaurants, nightclubs and other festive haunts. The civic body is yet to decide about allowing parties beyond 12.30am in the city. According to BMC officials, restaurants, bars and nightclubs will have to ensure 50% occupancy and that their guests are fully vaccinated, failing which action could be taken against such establishments. No additional curbs or restrictions have been planned in the city yet. The final call on guidelines for Christmas and New Year celebrations will be taken following a directive from the state government.Prashant Gaikwad, assistant municipal commissioner in South Mumbai, said, “Till now, there are no directions to allow parties through the night. The existing norms to prevent Covid-19 will be applied which means restaurants, bars and nightclubs can remain open till 12.30am.”Sandhya Nandekar, assistant municipal commissioner of the BMC from Kandivali said, “We are ensuring that there is compliance with all Covid-19 guidelines by commercial establishments. All establishments including restaurants and nightclubs have to maintain 50% occupancy.”Guardian Minister and Congress MLA Aslam Shaikh on Wednesday told reporters that, “I do not think state government will give permission for organising big parties owing to Omicron variant. We have, however, allowed opening up of all religions activities. Citizens should celebrate with utmost cautious behaviour.”On the other hand Suresh kakani additional municipal commissioner of the BMC said, “We have not taken any decision to restrict new year’s celebration. The state government is finalising guidelines on it and it will be issued in the coming days. For now, the 50% occupancy in restuarant and bars along with deadline of 12.30 am will have to be followed.”The BMC has formed a special night action group for areas including Andheri (west), Juhu and Vile Parle that have a significant number of pubs and bars. Prithviraj Chouhan, assistant municipal commissioner from the K/west ward said that this group, constituted by staff from various departments, will monitor bars and pubs to make sure that Covid protocols are followed. The group members will be allotted shifts and the monitoring will be underway from December 1 to 31, 2021.Vinayak Vispute, assistant municipal commissioner of Bandra, said, “We all have to take responsibility in following Covid-appropriate behaviour and it is also the responsibility of establishments to ensure that those entering their premises are fully vaccinated. Simultaneously, we are also keeping an eye on fire compliance ahead of Christmas and New Year celebrations.”Mumbai has reported a total 12 Omicron cases till Tuesday – the highest in Maharashtra, according to state health department data.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/no-leeway-for-x-mas-ny-bashes-yet-101639585536558.html
15-12-2021||Lucknow||Support pours in for AKTU students demanding online exams||Students of Dr APJ Abdul Kalam Technical University (AKTU), Lucknow, who are running a virtual campaign against their offline semester exams beginning December 28, have got support from National Students’ Union of India (NSUI).Shauryaveer Singh, national secretary of NSUI, the student wing of Congress party, in a tweet on Tuesday said, “The government cannot suppress the voice of AKTU students demanding online exams. Till such time their demands are not met, we will continue to support them.”The students have decided to intensify their virtual protest on Thursday (December 16) on Convocation day by running hashtag for AKTU online exam. “Governor Anandiben Patel, who is our chancellor, will be there to give away degrees. We hope she will take note of our plea,” said a student.Some students say they have even prepared an invite asking students to participate in the social media protest to force university administration to call off the offline exams and hold them in online mode which is safer keeping in mind the ongoing pandemic. The students also claimed that only a few months ago, AKTU had conducted online exams. They alleged that in the wake of Omicron and rising number of Covid cases, AKTU decision to hold offline exam was unfortunate.“Sir #AKTU students are requesting for online exam. Now as cases are rising, I request you to kindly intervene and help students and provide them online option for all four lakh students,” reads a tweet of a student.The students even cited MP chief minister Shivraj Singh Chauhan’s December 6 tweet in which he said exam at the Rajiv Gandhi Technological University there be held online for convenience of students.“If the Madhya Pradesh government can conduct online exam to protect students, why not other state governments?. We must protect our students,” said one Anubha Shrivastava Sahai in a tweet.AKTU convocation todayThe 19th convocation of Dr. APJ Abdul Kalam Technical University will be held on Thursday under the chairmanship of governor and Chancellor of the University Anandiben Patel. Padma Shri Prof SG Dhande will be the chief guest and will be conferred upon an honorary degree of DSC. Also, degrees will be awarded to 53,226 students in the function. Along with this, gold, silver and bronze medals will be given to 92 meritorious students. For the first time, medals will be awarded in post graduate courses. The 92 medals, include 1 Chancellor’s Gold Medal, 1 Smt. Kamal Rani Memorial Medal, 16 Gold, 17 Silver, 18 Bronze in undergraduate courses; 2 Gold, 2 Silver and 2 Bronze medals in masters courses. In addition, there are 12 Gold, 7 Silver and 7 Bronze in government institutes and 5 Gold, 1 Silver and 1 Bronze in masters courses. Rashi Mathur of Pranveer Singh Institute of Technology, Kanpur, will be awarded the Chancellor’s Gold Medal. Also, Smt. Kamal Rani Memorial Medal will be given to Seelu Gautam, a student of SR Institute of Management and Technology, Lucknow. In the convocation, 91 scholars will be awarded PhD degrees. Also a DSC degree will be awarded to Dr Saurabh Gupta, joint secretary, Ministry of Home Affairs, Government of India. On this occasion, principal secretary, technical education, Amrit Abhijat and secretary, technical education, Alok Kumar will be present, said Asheesh Misra, media incharge, AKTU, Lucknow.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/support-pours-in-for-aktu-students-demanding-online-exams-101639585176565.html
15-12-2021||Mumbai||Pedestrians, cyclists and auto riders were most vulnerable to fatalities in Mumbai||Mumbai: A report released by the Mumbai traffic police and other agencies reveal that in 2020 - pedestrians, cyclists, motorcyclists and three-wheeler occupants were the most vulnerable to fatal road accidents amounting 93% deaths in Mumbai.With two and three-wheeler drivers at 39%, 10% passengers and 42% were hit-and-run cases, killing 57% of pedestrians, despite the lockdown.The study also highlighted that the road crash fatalities in Mumbai dropped by 45% between 2010 and 2020, coming down to 350 from 637 ten years back. Rajvardhan Sinha, joint commissioner of police (traffic) said, “This report plays a key role in highlighting the areas that need immediate focus and intervention. The declining trend in crash fatalities in Mumbai is a positive one. We are committed to working with all the relevant government stakeholders to bring these numbers down further.”The report, which was jointly released by traffic cops and Bloomberg Philanthropies for Global Road Safety and partners, noted that maximum drivers involved in most of the fatal accidents in the city last year were in the age group of 20-24 years. Dr Sara Whitehead, public health and preventive medicine consultant, Vital Strategies, said “The steady decline in traffic deaths over the last decade in Mumbai illustrates that the interventions being implemented have worked. More lives can be saved by examining the data and crafting measures to address the causes of road crashes.” After analysing 184 km roads in Mumbai the crash analysis team found that males made up not only the largest number of victims (80%) but also the perpetrators responsible for the fatal crashes. It has been found that 99% of the drivers found “at fault” in road crash-related deaths were males.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/pedestrians-cyclists-and-auto-riders-were-most-vulnerable-to-fatalities-in-mumbai-101639584636191.html
15-12-2021||Dehradun||More important decisions in offing for ex-servicemen: Rajnath Singh||Asserting that the Centre respects ex-servicemen as much as those in service, Defence Minister Rajnath Singh on Wednesday said several important decisions for ex-servicemen were likely to be taken by the end of this month or early next year.Addressing a gathering at the ground-breaking ceremony of a Sainya Dham (martyrs' memorial) at Guniyalgaon in Dehradun, he said the Narendra Modi government is entirely with the armed forces personnel, whether serving or retired."We respect the ex-servicemen as much as the serving ones, and several important decisions are in the offing for them by the end of December or mid-January next year," Singh said.Citing an example, he said the demand of ex-servicemen for 'One Rank, One Pension', which was stuck in a limbo for 40 years, was quickly fulfilled on the initiative of the prime minister.Listing steps taken by him as defence minister for the welfare of retired personnel, Singh said he made efforts to ensure that havildars, who retired prior to 2006, get revised pension benefits as honorary naib subedars. The Union minister said he had also allowed retired officers recruited through short service commission to use their ranks post retirement, a facility they did not enjoy earlier. The ex-gratia paid to the next of kin of battle casualties has also been hiked from ₹2 lakh to ₹8 lakh, he said.The pension of naval and airforce personnel was not revised for 50 years but the Modi goverment issued orders for the revision of pension regulation of all the three wings of the armed forces in December, 2020, he said.A dedicated pension grievance cell was created for retired servicemen through which 97 per cent of the complaints were being disposed of quickly, Singh sai."However, what we are doing is no obligation on you. It is our duty," he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/dehradun-news/more-important-decisions-in-offing-for-ex-servicemen-rajnath-singh-101639582116756.html
15-12-2021||Bhopal||Madhya Pradesh logs 20 new Covid-19 cases; 14 discharged||With 20 fresh cases, the Covid-19 tally in Madhya Pradesh rose to 7,93,415 on Wednesday, while recovery count increased to 7,82,716 after 14 patients were discharged from hospitals during the day, a health department official said. The death toll remained unchanged at 10,529 as no new fatality was reported in the state in the last 24 hours, he said. The state is now left with 170 active coronavirus cases. With 56,767 swab samples examined during the day, the number of tests in MP went up to 2,27,34,849, the official added. An official release said 9,55,10,328 COVID-19 vaccine doses have been administered to eligible population so far in the state, including 4,55,416 on Wednesday. Coronavirus figures in MP are as follows: Total cases 7,93,415, new cases 20, death toll 10,529, recovered 7,82,716, active cases 170, number of tests so far 2,27,34,849.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bhopal-news/madhya-pradesh-logs-20-new-covid-19-cases-14-discharged-101639581772511.html
15-12-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra reports four fresh cases of Omicron; state tally touches 32||Maharashtra on Wednesday detected four new cases of Omicron, taking the state's tally of infections from the new variant of Coronavirus to 32. A bulletin from the state health department said that while two cases were reported from Osmanabad district, one case each was from Mumbai and Buldhana.Of the total cases detected so far, 25 patients have been discharged after testing negative for the virus.On Tuesday, two more fully vaccinated people were found infected with Omicron, one from Latur and another from Pune, the state health department said, adding both the Omicron patients, including a woman, were asymptomatic and fully jabbed.In Pune, a 39-year old woman was detected with the new variant, while in Latur, a 33-year-old male was found positive.Also read | Oppn wants discussions on Omicron & inflation, then runs away from Parl: Pralhad JoshiBoth patients had travel history to Dubai and three of their close contacts were traced. All three of them tested negative for Covid-19.COVID19 | Maharashtra reports 925 new cases & 10 deaths today; Active caseload at 6,467 4 more patients have been found to be infected with Omicron in the state, taking the tally to 32. pic.twitter.com/zbmMYMcksLEarlier in the day, a seven-year-old boy from Murshidabad district, who returned from abroad with his parents on December 10, became West Bengal’s first resident to test positive for the Omicron variant of the coronavirus. Telangana also reported its first two cases of the new variant.Telangana director of health G Srinivasa Rao told reporters that two passengers – a 24-year-old woman from Kenya and a 23-year-old man from Somalia, who landed at the Rajiv Gandhi International Airport in Hyderabad -- tested positive for Covid-19 on their arrival on December 12.Also read | Omicron will become dominant strain of Covid in EU by mid-Jan: Bloc presidentSo far, Omicron, a highly transmissible variant of the coronavirus, has been reported from eight states --- Maharashtra, Kerala, Andhra Pradesh, Gujarat, Rajasthan, Karnataka, Telangana, and West Bengal --- and union territories of Delhi and Chandigarh.The government has warned against laxity in following Covid-19 related protocols, urging people to not delay vaccination.Meanwhile, Maharashtra’s overall active caseload touched 6,476 with 925 new cases of the virus being reported from the case. As many as 10 patients died of related complications.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-reports-four-fresh-cases-of-omicron-state-tally-touches-32-101639580356195.html
15-12-2021||Other||Will continue sit-in at toll plazas which have hiked charges: BKU||Barnala/Bathinda Farmers under the banner of the Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM) and the Bhartiya Kisan Union (Ekta-Ugrahan) held massive protests in Barnala and Sangrur districts on Wednesday after calling off their dharnas opposite shopping malls, Reliance petrol pumps and outside the residence of BJP leaders. The Ugrahan group, however, has decided to continue sit-ins at toll plazas in Badbar, Mehal Kalan (SKM protest sites) of Barnala and Ladda and Kalajhar in Sangrur. The protest was also lifted from the Sangrur railway station. In Barnala, protesters ended their dharna at the City Railway Station parking on the 441th day, Manna Pindi and Sanghera Reliance petrol pumps and from outside the residences of BJP leaders Yadwinder Shunty and Archana Dutt. In Sangrur, farmers called protests from Kheri, Suman and Lehra petrol pumps.“Those toll plazas must give us in writing that they will not increase toll charges and we will end the protest there. Till the toll plazas continue with the hiked toll, our sit-in will continue,” said Joginder Singh Ugrahan, state president BKU (Ekta-Ugrahan) who addressed farmers at Badbar toll plaza. “We have won a battle, but debt waiver and generating more employment are pending,” he added.Meanwhile, in Bathinda BKU general secretary Sukhdev Singh Kokrikalan said it was not acceptable that the private firms charge higher highway user fees from the public. “After 441 days, today our activists ended their ‘Pucca Morcha’ at 30 places including the residences of the BJP leaders, petrol pumps, business and trade centres of corporate houses. Toll booths will be allowed to resume operations only if they assure to charge the fees levied before October 1, 2020,” said Kokrikalan.Meanwhile, before calling off the agitation on Wednesday, union activists gathered in large numbers at places. A large number of senior women union leaders joined for community celebrations against the BJP-led central government.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/will-continue-sit-in-at-toll-plazas-which-have-hiked-charges-bku-101639579715510.html
15-12-2021||Other||Bombay high court exempts Aryan Khan from Friday visits to NCB office in Mumbai||MUMBAI: Bollywood actor Shah Rukh Khan’s son Aryan Khan will not have to appear before the Mumbai zonal office of the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) every Friday as required under the court order granting him bail, the Bombay high court ruled on Wednesday accepting the request by the 24-year-old to relax the bail conditions since NCB’s zonal office is not handling his case any longer.Aryan Khan, arrested by NCB a day after the agency’s October 2 raid of a cruise ship docked off the Mumbai coast, was granted bail on October 28 on 14 conditions, including the ones that required him to surrender his passport and appear at the NCB office in Mumbai every week.But the case involving Aryan Khan was among the six cases “with national and international ramifications” handed over to a Delhi-headquartered special investigation team (SIT) set up by NCB chief SN Pradhan on November 5 after multiple controversies around NCB Mumbai’s zonal director Sameer Wankhede.In his application to relax the bail conditions, Aryan Khan said since the case has been transferred to the SIT, he should be exempted from appearing before the anti-drug agency’s office in Mumbai.Justice NW Sambre allowed relaxation on Wednesday and ordered Arya Khan, 24, to appear before the SIT in Delhi as and when directed by the agency. The high court told NCB to give Khan at least a 72-hour notice to make the travel arrangements.The judge also modified another bail condition that required Aryan to furnish his itinerary to the NCB every time he travels out of Mumbai.The high-profile case got shrouded in controversy when a key NCB witness alleged that the agency’s Mumbai zonal chief Sameer Wankhede was part of a ₹25 crore extortion racket targeting Aryan. The witness, Prabhakar Sail, also alleged that he was forced to sign sheets of blank paper, prompting the anti-drug agency to set up an inquiry into Wankhede.Experts also raised doubts whether the protocol was breached during the raid – private individuals like Sail’s employer Kiran Gosavi, who was arrested in Pune on extortion charges, were seen assisting officials and walking into the Narcotics Control Bureau office despite holding no official position in any law enforcement agency.While granting bail to Aryan Khan, Arbaaz Merchant and Munmun Dhamecha in October, Justice Sambre noted that the NCB claim that they should be considered to have the intention to commit an offence under the NDPS Act (Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act), having found in possession of commercial quantity, in the backdrop of case of hatching conspiracy is liable to be rejected.No drugs were found in Aryan Khan’s possession while the quantity recovered from Merchant and Dhamecha were ‘small’ under the NDPS Act, the court noted. NCB has alleged it seized 13 grams of cocaine, 5 grams of mephedrone MD, 21 grams of charas and 22 pills of MDMA ecstasy after its raid on the cruise ship.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/bombay-high-court-exempts-aryan-khan-from-friday-visits-to-ncb-office-in-mumbai-101639578995510.html
15-12-2021||Mumbai||HC rejects Rashmi Shukla’s petition for quashing of FIR for data leak||Mumbai: The Bombay high court (HC) on Wednesday rejected a petition filed by IPS officer Rashmi Shukla for quashing of the FIR registered by the cyber cell of Mumbai police in connection with leakage of her report on alleged corruption in transfers and postings of police officers in Maharashtra.The HC dismissed her petition primarily on the ground that she was not named in the FIR and hence, could not seek quashing of the same. The division bench of justice Nitin Jamdar and justice Sarang Kotwal said, “The impugned FIR prima facie discloses cognisable offences. Since the FIR discloses a cognisable offence, the police have a duty to investigate. No ground is made out to quash the FIR and to prevent any further investigation.” The court also rejected Shukla’s prayer for transfer of the case to the CBI (Central Bureau of Investigation) on the ground that the two investigations were different, with one being about the allegations contained in the report and the other being about leakage of the report. “Even if the contents of the petitioner’s report are found to be correct, the alleged illegal leakage of official documents will nevertheless constitute an offence, and this will not depend on the result of the investigation conducted by the CBI,” the bench said. The court directed the police that in the event of Shukla being named an accused in the FIR, she should be issued a 72-hour advance notice.The bench hearing Shukla’s plea had reserved its order on October 29 wherein senior advocate Mahesh Jethmalani submitted that though the FIR did not name his client, the state was acting in a vindictive manner against her. The FIR was registered against unknown persons after BJP leader Devendra Fadnavis cited a letter purportedly written by Shukla to the then DGP about alleged corruption in transfers of police officers and details of intercepted calls. After the FIR was registered for alleged leakage of confidential data, the Shiv Sena-led ruling coalition alleged that Shukla, who was heading the State Intelligence Department (SID) at the time, resorted to tapping of phones without being authorised to do so by the relevant authorities. Jethmalani also submitted that Shukla had performed her duty as per the mandate given to her and maintained secrecy as per the law, however the state government wanted to scuttle the probe in the Anil Deshmukh case and hence was creating hurdles to avert judicial and CBI or ED (Enforcement Directorate) scrutiny of documents. He added that NCP leaders Nawab Malik and Jitendra Awhad had leaked information on the transfers and postings. In light of these submissions, Jethmalani said that the FIR was misconceived and hence, should be quashed. He also submitted that as the CBI was probing the corruption case, the court should direct the Mumbai police to handover the probe to the CBI with respect to the other aspect in the case.While opposing the petition, senior advocate Darius Khambata for the state government argued that Shukla was not named an accused in the FIR and the probe should be allowed to continue as the investigation was on a distinct issue and there was substantial material against Shukla. Khambata referred to the three pen drives that had been requisitioned by Shukla which contained information kept in the servers of the SID, and argued that while the investigators had been able to trace two of them, they were still searching for the third one and hence, Shukla’s interrogation was necessary and vital to the investigation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/hc-rejects-rashmi-shukla-s-petition-for-quashing-of-fir-for-data-leak-101639578157278.html
15-12-2021||Other||National wildlife institute to conduct its maiden census in Abohar sanctuary||Bathinda The Wildlife Institute of India (WII) is set to hold its first-ever census of animals at the Shri Guru Jambeshwar Wildlife Sanctuary near Abohar in Fazilka district using modern technology like drones. To date, state authorities have been conducting the census. Ferozepur divisional forest officer (DFO) Nalin Yadav said the exercise, expected to begin within a month, will help add a new dimension in the understanding of challenges that wildlife faces in an open sanctuary. “For the first time in Punjab, drones and other modern measures will be used for detailed enumeration of wildlife. Punjab is roping in the Dehradun-based institute for a more scientific and accurate method to ascertain a number of different species in the sanctuary,” the DFO added. Officials added that census should be conducted at regular intervals to ensure safety of the wildlife.“We had written to the WII, the apex national body of wildlife census, last year to undertake the enumeration. It was indefinitely postponed amid the Covid-19 crisis. Now, the institute has given its consent and the census is likely to commence by the first week of January in collaboration with Punjab wildlife experts,” Yadav addedLocated in the heartland of the environment-loving community of Bishnois, the Jambeshwar Wildlife Sanctuary is unique as it is owned entirely by private individuals or panchayats. A cluster of 13 villages in Sito Gunno tehsile was declared a wildlife sanctuary in 1989 on the community’s demand to protect wild animals in their private lands.The community reserve is home to hundreds of endangered blackbuck, the state animal of Punjab, blue bull or nilgai, wild boar other species, previous censuses have shown. There is no restriction on public movement, members of the Bishnoi community voluntarily guard against poaching.According to the Wildlife Census 2011, there were about 3,500 animals and six years later, the headcount was calculated at about 3,200. Sources added that the last time such a survey was conducted was in 2017, by the Punjab wildlife department; its purpose was to audit the sanctuary ahead of the widening of the Abohar-Dabwali road (national highway-354E).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/national-wildlife-institute-to-conduct-its-maiden-census-in-abohar-sanctuary-101639578155483.html
15-12-2021||Mumbai||32-year-old arrested for raping 14-year-old girl in Ganeshpuri village in Bhiwandi||A 32-year-old man has been arrested for allegedly raping a 14-year-old girl in his neighbourhood in Ganeshpuri several times over the last year.The girl lost her father and has been abandoned by her mother. She lived alone while her neighbours looked after her. The accused took her to a grazing site and raped her repeatedly and threatened her to keep the relationship a secret.The accused has his own business and also owns a few goats. The girl was being taken care of by his wife and him for the past six years. The girl used to help them in chores like grazing the goats. Later, he started joining her and a few months ago, while they were alone, he took advantage and raped her.A police officer from Ganeshpuri police station said, “Following repeated harassment by the accused, the girl shared her ordeal with a friend. The friend was mature and confronted the accused’s wife directly. The three of them shared the details with Shramjeevi Sanghatana volunteers, who helped them to file a case. The accused was arrested immediately after the case was registered under IPC 376 and relevant sections of Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/32yearold-arrested-for-raping-14-year-old-girl-in-ganeshpuri-village-in-bhiwandi-101639576642139.html
15-12-2021||Delhi||Delhi court grants interim relief to BJP's Sambit Patra in doctored clip case||Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader Sambit Patra was on Wednesday granted interim relief in a case related to a doctored video of Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal supporting the three farm laws that were recently repealed in Parliament.A Delhi court stayed a lower court order directing registration of a first information report (FIR) against Patra for allegedly posting the doctored video.On November 23, metropolitan magistrate Rishabh Kapoor had directed the Delhi Police to register the FIR and conduct a thorough investigation against the BJP Spokesperson, while allowing the application of Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) MLA Atishi. Patra had then moved the sessions court challenging the magistrate's order.“The operation of the impugned order dated November 23 is stayed,” said additional sessions judge Sanjay Sharma said and listed the matter for further hearing on January 10, 2022.While allowing Atishi’s plea, the magistrate had said the doctored video may have resulted in rioting like situation across the nation.“The fact that the video was published on the Twitter handle of the proposed accused with the caption (Counting the benefits of the three farm bills) 'teeno farm bills ke laabh ginate hue... Sir jee', prima facie proves that the same was circulated with no intention but to cause the farmers to believe that Kejriwal is supporting the farm laws, which may have perpetuated the state of outrage with the protesting farmers and may have resulted in rioting like situation across the nation,” Kapoor said.He further said a “thorough investigation” was required to be conducted considering the seriousness of the allegations and directed the SHO to register the FIR against Patra and initiate the probe.The directions had come on Atishi's plea which claimed that the alleged video contained statements that were diametrically opposite to the stand taken by the Delhi CM and the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) in respect of farm laws and caused discontent and dissatisfaction in the minds of farmers.(With inputs from agencies)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-court-grants-interim-relief-to-bjp-s-sambit-patra-in-doctored-clip-case-101639572191286.html
15-12-2021||Mumbai||Bombay HC refuses to quash CBI summons in Anil Deshmukh case||The Bombay high court on Wednesday dismissed the Maharashtra government’s petition challenging the Central Bureau of Investigation’s (CBI) summons to top state officials in the corruption case involving former state home minister Anil Deshmukh and the plea to entrust the probe instead to a special investigation team (SIT) headed by a retired HC judge. The CBI is conducting a probe into allegations of misconduct and corruption made against NCP leader Deshmukh earlier this year by former Mumbai police commissioner Param Bir Singh. Deshmukh, who resigned as the state home minister in April this year, was arrested by the Enforcement Directorate (ED) last month in connection with a multi-crore money laundering case related to the corruption probe.The HC held that there was no merit in the claims of the state that the CBI was not entitled to conduct the probe. “There is no substance in the contention of the Petitioner that the Respondent- CBI is disentitled to carry out investigation in the matter. No case is made out for withdrawing the investigation from the Respondent- CBI and entrust it to the Special Investigation Team as prayed for,” HC said. The court also said that the Maharashtra government was not entitled to relief in this case.“Considering the totality of the circumstances including the conduct of the petitioner (State of Maharashtra) as noticed by the judicial orders and manifested from the record, the petitioner is not entitled to any relief in this petition,” the court said and dismissed the petition. Also Read: HC grants ED custody of Anil Deshmukh till November 12The division bench of justice Nitin Jamdar and justice Sarang Kotwal had concluded hearing in the case on November 26 and reserved its order in the petition which apart from seeking transfer of the investigation to SIT had also sought a stay on the proceedings arising out of the summons issued by the agency to former Maharashtra chief secretary Sitaram Kunte and the current director general of police (DGP) of the state, Sanjay Pandey. The state had claimed that the CBI was harassing its top officers by issuing them repeated summons. The state government, represented by senior advocate Darius Khambata, had submitted that CBI probe into the allegations of Deshmukh’s involvement in the bribery case for transfers and postings of police officials could not be conducted impartially asSubodh Jaiswal, the current director of CBI, was part of the Police Establishment Board (PEB) that had recommended the names of the officers for transfers. Khambata had submitted that 92.6% of PEB recommendations were approved by the home ministry during Deshmukh’s tenure and hence the Central agency headed by Jaiswal could not conduct an impartial and independent investigation. Khambata added that CBI started issuing summons to top officers Kunte and Pandey after BKC cyber police station summoned Jaiswal in the illegal phone tapping and data leak case. DGP Pandey had challenged the veracity of the transcripts in the April 19 letter by former Mumbai Police Commissioner Param Bir Singh to CBI, wherein he alleged that Pandey tried to coerce him into withdrawing the March 20 letter to the chief minister. Singh had levelled allegations of corruption against Deshmukh in the letter. For CBI, additional solicitor general Aman Lekhi had argued that the contentions of the state that Jaiswal could influence the investigation was misplaced and stated that the petition was an attempt to scuttle and derail the investigation. He also argued that though Jaiswal was appointed as CBI chief in May, the current petition was filed belatedly and added that the investigation by CBI was ordered by HC on April 5 and was not a result of Jaiswal’s whim. Lekhi had further submitted that the reliefs sought by the state government against the summons issued to its two highest officers was not maintainable as the officers did not file the petition themselves and the reliefs sought by the state were only intended to influence and mislead the court. He had also submitted progress reports of the CBI investigation in sealed envelopes to HC and said that as the court was aware of the direction of the probe, constitution and transferring of the same to SIT was not required.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/hc-refuses-to-quash-cbi-summons-in-anil-deshmukh-case-101639568481411.html
15-12-2021||Mumbai||29-year-old who killed sister, her lover must hang, rules Bombay high court||MUMBAI: The Bombay high court’s Aurangabad bench has confirmed the death sentence to a 29-year-old labourer in Maharashtra’s Nanded district for killing his married sister and her lover in July 2017. The labourer, Digambar Dasre, and his brother Mohan, later went to the police station and confessed.“We are shocked to see the manner in which deceased Pooja and deceased Govind were subjected to death,” said the division bench of justice VK Jadhav and justice Shrikant Kulkarni while confirming the death verdict on Monday.“It was done not only with the sole intention to protect the honour of the family, but to punish both of them so also to make it a lesson for those who could dare to disobey the family,” the bench said.The murder, according to the prosecution, took place at a spot between Divshi and Nigva villages on July 23, 2017 – a day after Pooja left her matrimonial home and started to live with her lover, Govind in neighbouring Telangana’s Kharbala village.Digambar Dasre married off his sister Pooja to one Jethiba Varshewar on June 10, 2017. But barely a month-and-half later, she left without informing anyone and phoned Govind, telling him that she wanted to stay with him. Digambar knew about their relationship and kept on checking with Govind about his sister. When Govind switched off his mobile, Digambar figured that Pooja was him. Digambar and his brother Mohan went to Kharbala village. Digambar promised his sister that he will get them married and took them both to a location about 40km away. Digambar killed Pooja and Govind by slitting their throats. His brother Mohan helped him in executing the plan.Digambar then reported the brutal killings to Bhokar police station within whose jurisdiction the murders were committed. The two brothers were tried for the double murder and two years later, on July 18, 2019, an additional sessions judge at Bhokar convicted them. Digambar was sentenced to death while Mohan was sentenced to life imprisonment.The matter was referred to the high court bench for confirmation of the capital punishment handed down to Digambar. Digambar and Mohad had also challenged their convictions and the sentences handed down to them. The high court heard the reference and appeals together and on Monday rejected their appeals. While upholding the death sentence for Digambar, the two-judge bench referred to the Supreme Court’s ruling in Bhagwan Dass’ case, observing that the so-called honour killings, for whatever reasons, come within the category of rarest of rare cases and as such deserve the death sentence and “it is time to stamp out these barbaric, feudal practices which are a slur on our nation”. This is necessary as a deterrent for such outrageous, uncivilized behaviour. The high court observed that the crime did not occur on the spur of moment, but was craftily planned and meticulously executed. The bench said the family could have cut off social relations with Pooja after she left her matrimonial home and joined the company of her lover, but Digambar and Mohan killed both of them in a pre-planned and calculated manner.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/29yearold-who-killed-sister-her-lover-must-hang-rules-bombay-high-court-101639567163758.html
15-12-2021||Delhi||HC seeks response from Delhi govt over plea against appointing chief secy as MCD election commissioner||The Delhi High Court Wednesday sought response of the Delhi government on a plea by BJP MLA challenging the appointment of Chief Secretary as Election Commissioner of Municipal Corporation of Delhi from April 21, next year.A bench of Chief Justice D N Patel and Justice Jyoti Singh issued notice to the Delhi government and the three MCDs — East, North and South, on the petition seeking direction to the state to immediately withdraw its November 25 notification.By its notification, the Delhi government has allegedly improperly earmarked the appointment of serving chief secretary of Government of NCT of Delhi as Election Commissioner of Municipal Corporation of Delhi with effect from April 21, 2022, the plea filed by BJP MLA Nand Kishore Garg said.The plea, filed through advocate Shashank Deo Sudhi, claimed that the appointment was made in utter violation to the settled principles of law which mandates that important government post like election commissioner must be offered to the neutral and apolitical person and must not be the party to the several political as well as administrative decision of a particular government as it can be capable of affecting the free and fair election process in the MCD.“In this respect, it is submitted that the serving chief secretary of Government of NCT of Delhi is still having his tenure of present service till March 8, 2023. However, the respondent no.1 (Delhi government) has acted with vested interest and ulterior motive as incumbent chief secretary of Delhi has been actively associated with it at every level of administrative decisions and it has obliged the serving chief secretary to pay-back to it in forth coming election of MCD as the government had decided to extend the service tenure of incumbent chief secretary for more than five years..,” the plea said.It alleged that this “blatant decision” of the government as serious bearing and repercussion to the very foundation of democracy and the notification is not only improper but also illegal and against the settled principles of law and same may be declared as unconstitutional.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/hc-seeks-response-from-delhi-govt-over-plea-against-appointing-chief-secy-as-mcd-election-commissioner-101639560361728.html
15-12-2021||Mumbai||Karan Johar gathering: 108 contacts test Covid -ve, Kareena Kapoor’s maid is +ve||A total of 108 people from residential buildings housing Bollywood personalities Karan Johar, Kareena Kapoor, Amrita Arora and Seema Khan tested negative for Covid-19 on Wednesday, according to the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC).According to BMC officials, 145 close contacts of above four were tested and results of 37 people are awaited.Residential buildings of the above four in Khar and Bandra area were unsealed on Wednesday after 108 people testing negative, confirmed a senior BMC officer, who didn’t wish to be named.The official added that only floors housing Kareena Kapoor, Amrita Arora and Seema Khan have been sealed. RT-PCR reports of Malaika Arora, Alia Bhatt who were also present in gathering of Karan Johar have tested negative.Also Read | Covid-19: Telangana reports its first cases of Omicron variantAccording to the BMC official, Karan Johar and his entire family tested negative for the virus but the maid employed at Kareena Kapoor’s household has tested positive on Wednesday.The BMC official added, “We are informed that fashion designer Manish Malhotra was also present in the gathering organised by Karan Johar. We are reaching out to him for testing.”Meanwhile, BMC has requested all citizens to practice restrain and follow Covid appropriate behaviour. “In this case, Seema Khan should have practised caution and not attended the gathering considering she was a close contact of a positive patient,” the BMC official quoted above said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/karan-johar-gathering-108-contacts-are-negative-kareena-kapoor-s-maid-is-positive-101639563921067.html
15-12-2021||Kolkata||BJP’s demand for same-day civic polls in Bengal not granted by Calcutta HC||The Calcutta high court’s division bench of chief justice Prakash Shrivastava and justice Rajarshi Bhardwaj on Wednesday did not entertain the Bharatiya Janata Party’s (BJP) petition seeking simultaneous elections to West Bengal’s 120-odd municipal corporations and municipalities. The bench also did not order a stay on the Kolkata Municipal Corporation (KMC) polls, scheduled on December 19, as sought by the petitioner, the BJP’s state vice-president Pratap Banerjee. The hearing on the petition ended on December 10 but the bench had reserved its order. During the hearing on December 6, the West Bengal state election commission (SEC) said it wanted to hold the elections in the remaining 22 districts in six to eight phases by May next year. Also Read: India’s clean energy gets more funding than coal for the third successive yearThe bench on Wednesday did not give the SEC a free hand in deciding the poll schedule and directed it to disclose in the next hearing, the tentative time schedule and the minimum phases required for holding elections in the remaining civic bodies. The matter will be heard again on December 23. “Keeping in view the observations made above, respondent No. 2 and No. 3 (West Bengal government and the SEC, respectively) are directed to disclose to this court, without any further delay, minimum phases in which elections for the remaining municipal corporations/municipalities in the state will be held, and the tentative time schedule giving earliest dates for holding such elections. We expect that respondent No. 2 and No. 3 will take a decision in this regard keeping in mind their responsibility to uphold democratic principles and to carry out the mandate of the Constitution,” said the court order. On the BJP’s petition for a stay on the KMC polls, the court said a similar petition was rejected on December 1. “We are of the opinion that the prayer made by the counsel for the petitioner for staying the KMC elections cannot be accepted and is hereby declined,” said the judges. During the last hearing on December 10, advocates for the petitioner cited some judgments of the Supreme Court and said that electronic voting machines (EVM) containing voter verified paper audit trail (VVPAT) are mandatory, but these will not be used in the KMC elections, according to the affidavit earlier filed by the SEC. Senior advocate Jayanta Mitra, who represented the SEC, countered it. He said EVMs given to the state by the Election Commission of India (ECI) for the municipal polls do not have the provision for VVPAT.On Wednesday, the order said, “The Honourable Supreme Court had clearly observed that the existing system is not doubted by the court so far as fairness and integrity is concerned, but had observed about increasing the machines, which are subjected to verification of paper trail to a reasonable number. These judgments are not relating to the local bodies’ elections, and in none of these judgments, it has been held that the elections shouldn’t be held if VVPATs are not used.” Expressing faith in the current system, the order said, “If the number of machines that are subjected to verification of paper trail can be increased to a reasonable number, it would lead to greater satisfaction among not only the political parties, but the entire electorate of the country. This is what the court should endeavour, and the exercise, therefore, should be to find a viable number of machines that should be subjected to the verification of VVPAT paper trails keeping in mind the infrastructure and the manpower difficulties pointed out by the deputy election commissioner. In this regard, the proximity to the election schedule announced by the ECI must be kept in mind.” Though the court rejected all the demands made by the BJP, the party’s national vice-president, Dilip Ghosh, said the legal exercise was necessary. “People of Bengal have to move the court for everything because they have no other option. The Trinamool Congress (TMC) never allows free and fair elections,” Ghosh alleged. Transport minister Firhad Hakim welcomed the court’s order, saying, “The BJP moved the court because it knows that it will not win a single seat in Kolkata.” With the polls barely four days away, the TMC intensified its activities. The party announced that chief minister Mamata Banerjee will campaign for the candidates in eastern Kolkata on Wednesday evening.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/bjps-demand-for-same-day-civic-polls-in-bengal-not-granted-by-hc-101639559660820.html
15-12-2021||Other||9 killed after bus falls into stream in Andhra Pradesh, rescue ops underway||At least nine people have died in an accident after an RTC bus skidded off the road and plunged into a stream in West Godavari district of Andhra Pradesh.The accident took place when the bus  was on its way from Aswaraopeta in Bhadradri Kothagudem to Jangareddygudem in West Godavari. According to reports, the bus was trying to avoid a lorry from the opposite side when it lost control and overturned. Police reached the spot and rescue operations are underway.There were as many as 47 passengers on board and the bus was just 10 minutes away from its destination when the accident happened. All those injured “The police, with the help of revenue staff and other locals, recovered nine bodies, including five women and that of the driver, so far. Another 38 persons, including children, were rescued,” said Jangareddygudem Revenue Divisional Officer (RDO) Y V Prasanna Lakshmi.Expressing shock over the incident, state transport minister Perni Venkatramaiah ordered a high-level inquiry by the district authorities.Andhra Pradesh chief minister YS Jagan Mohan Reddy announced an ex gratia of ₹5 lakh to each of the families of the deceased. Meanwhile, other state leaders and former chief minister N Chandrababu Naidu conveyed their condolences.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/9-killed-after-bus-falls-into-stream-in-andhra-pradesh-rescue-ops-underway-101639555534898.html
15-12-2021||Delhi||Delhi's temperature settles at 7.8 degrees Celsius, AQI remains ‘very poor’||The national capital on Wednesday recorded a minimum temperature of 7.8 degrees Celsius, a notch below normal, while its air quality index read 366 at 9 am. The maximum temperature is likely to settle at 23 degrees Celsius.On Sunday, the national capital had recorded its lowest temperature of the season so far at 6.4 degrees Celsius, weather officials said.On Monday, the 24-hour average air quality index (AQI) in the city stood at 367, which falls in the very poor category, deteriorating from Monday when it was 331.An AQI between zero and 50 is considered good, 51 and 100 satisfactory, 101 and 200 moderate, 201 and 300 poor, 301 and 400 very poor, and 401 and 500 severe.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhis-minimum-temperature-settles-at-7-8-deg-c-air-quality-very-poor-101639550120443.html
15-12-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai schools reopen for classes 1 to 7, set to resume in Pune tomorrow||Schools in Mumbai reopened for classes 1 to 7 on Wednesday after more than 20 months amid a rising threat against the Omicron variant of coronavirus across the country. Schools were shut in the region in March 2020 as part of restrictions imposed due to the outbreak of the coronavirus pandemic."Children are happy to go back to school once again. Physical schooling is better than online schooling. The school has taken all the precautions," a parent at Andhra Education Society (AES) school in Mumbai’s Wadala told news agency ANI.An order to reopen the schools in the metropolis was issued by Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) commissioner Iqbal Singh Chahal. As per the order, schools have been asked to follow all Covid-19 protocols like wearing of masks, sanitisation and social distancing, while RT-PCR test has been made mandatory for teachers and non-teaching staff who are not fully vaccinated yet, while pushing for vaccination for all those eligible.Schools are also set to resume for physical classes in Pune on Thursday, according to an order issued by Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) commissioner Vikram Kumar on Tuesday.Primary and middle schools were supposed to reopen in the first week of December in Pune and Mumbai but the decision was postponed due to the emergence of the Omicron variant in the state.So far, seven cases of Covid-19 infections with Omicron variant have been reported in Mumbai, all of them mild or asymptomatic, Maharashtra Health Department said on Tuesday evening. The state has reported a total of eight cases with one more person getting infected with Omicron in the Vasai Virar area of Maharashtra.India is on high alert for the Omicron or B.1.1.529 strain of the coronavirus, which was first reported in Botswana on November 11, 2021, and subsequently surged in South Africa. It has already been declared a ‘variant of concern’ by the World Health Organization (WHO).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-schools-reopen-for-classes-1-to-7-set-to-resume-in-pune-tomorrow-101639544356701.html
15-12-2021||Delhi||New Delhi’s air continues to be ‘very poor’||New Delhi is likely to see a clear sky on Wednesday, according to the India Meteorological Department’s (IMD) forecast. The minimum temperature in the Capital is likely to be 13.8 degrees Celsius while the maximum temperature is predicted to reach 23.6 degrees Celsius.Delhi recorded a minimum temperature of 14.1 degrees Celsius on Tuesday and maximum temperature of 24.1 degrees Celsius. Delhi’s air quality was in the “very poor” category on Wednesday morning. Data from the Central Pollution Control Board showed that the hourly air quality index (AQI) at 7am stood at 372.An AQI between zero and 50 is considered ‘good’, 51 and 100 ‘satisfactory’, 101 and 200 ‘moderate’, 201 and 300 ‘poor’, 301 and 400 ‘very poor’, and 401 and 500 ‘severe’.Also Read: All 4 of Delhi’s new Omicron cases are asymptomatic, says hospitalThe Union ministry of earth science’s air quality monitoring centre, System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting and Research (Safar) said, “AQI today indicates ‘Very Poor’ air quality. For the next two days, winds are likely to be moderate. Partially cloudy conditions and moderate mixing layer height (~ 1.0 - 1.5 km) are likely to keep air quality within ‘very poor’ category for the next two days. On 16th December, air quality is likely to improve and from 17th onwards, significant improvement is likely due to high wind speeds.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-air-continues-to-be-very-poor-101639540279132.html
15-12-2021||Delhi||All 4 of Delhi's new Omicron cases are asymptomatic, says hospital||All four of the new Omicron cases reported in national capital Delhi are asymptomatic ones, according to the Lok Nayak Jai Prakash Narayan Hospital (LNJP), where these patients are admitted. Dr Suresh Kumar, the MD of the hospital, told the ANI news agency that of the four patients infected with the Omicron variant of the coronavirus, two had come from the United Kingdom while the other two were their close contacts.Also Read | Omicron cases in India will mostly be asymptomatic, says expert. Here's whyThe hospital statement comes a day after Delhi health minister Satyendar Jain informed that Omicron was detected in four new patients in the national capital who had tested positive for the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), thus taking the total Omicron tally in the Union territory to six.The LNJP hospital, where all the patients are being treated, provided details of the Omicron cases late at night on Tuesday. According to Dr Kumar, one of the six patients discharged earlier in the day had come from Zimbabwe on December 2 and reported mild symptoms like slight throat discomfort and weakness. “But he returned completely healthy after 10 days,” he noted. “Omicron patients have mild symptoms, stable oxygen rates, and no need for the ICU.”Of the 38 total Covid-19 patients currently admitted at the hospital, two or three more shall be discharged within Wednesday, he said, adding that the medical facility currently has 50 dedicated Covid beds in view of the new variant of the virus but that number can be increased if need be.Omicron, the new variant of the SARS-CoV-2 coronavirus said to be highly infectious and capable of undergoing frequent mutations, was first reported to the World Health Organization (WHO) from South Africa on November 25 this year. As per the WHO, the first known confirmed B.1.1.529 infection was from a specimen collected on November 9.On November 26, the WHO named the new B.1.1.529 strain as ‘Omicron’, also classifying it as a ‘variant of concern’.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/all-4-of-delhi-s-new-omicron-cases-are-asymptomatic-says-hospital-101639534590343.html
15-12-2021||Lucknow||3-day winter session of Uttar Pradesh assembly begins today||The Uttar Pradesh legislative assembly will convene for a brief, three-day winter session starting on Wednesday, with an aim to take the second supplementary grant for the financial year 2021-22 and to vote on account for various ambitious projects of the Yogi Adityanath-led state government.An official release issued by the Uttar Pradesh legislature in Lucknow confirmed that the winter session will last three days. Since both the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and the Opposition are busy with electioneering for the upcoming polls, the winter session will be brief. It is also most likely to be the last session of the 17th Vidhan Sabha, according to the PTI news agency.Pradeep Kumar Dubey, the principal secretary to the legislative assembly, told the agency that obituary references are up on schedule for the first working day of the winter session on Wednesday. Meanwhile, demands for the second supplementary grant for 2021-22 and the vote-on-account for the next financial year will be presented on Thursday, he said.Finally, on Friday – the last day of the brief winter session – the demands for the second supplementary grant and the vote-on-account will be discussed before passage, he added.Yesterday, the UP legislative assembly's business advisory committee held a meeting to decide the agenda of the winter session. It also set the terms for lawmakers to physically attend the session in view of the prevailing coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic. As it has been the norm in sessions held since the start of the pandemic, the assembly has, this time too, decided to give its members the choice to attend virtually.Uttar Pradesh goes to the polls early next year; the assembly elections are likely to be held in the month of February to March 2022 to elect 403 members of the Uttar Pradesh legislative assembly. It is to be noted that the current term of the assembly, elected in 2017, will expire on May 14 next year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/3day-winter-session-of-uttar-pradesh-assembly-begins-today-101639526581473.html
15-12-2021||Chandigarh||Now, trucks, tractor-trailers to get reflective tapes in Ludhiana||With poorly parked stationary vehicles, and slow-moving vehicles causing a number of road mishaps, especially in foggy weather conditions, the traffic wing of the Ludhiana police have decided to install retroreflector tapes on heavy vehicles such as tipper trucks, tractor trailers, and garbage trucks.Cops say that paint and reflectors on the vehicles often fade or disappear making the vehicles hard to spot at night or when the visibility is low. It is no surprise then that as per National Crime Record Bureau (NCRB) data most road mishaps in the city are reported in November, December and January as drivers often take the road in low visibility weather conditions. In 2020, 120 road mishaps out of 388, were reported in winter.Additional deputy commissioner of police (ADCP, traffic) Sandeep Sharma says as slow-moving vehicles ply in large numbers in the city, and could meet with a mishap due to low visibility, the traffic wing has decided to paste retroreflector tape on such vehicles passing through the city.The traffic police have also decided to install reflectors on roadsides. Work is likely to kick off on the stretch from Jagraon Bridge to octroi post on the Ludhiana-Ferozepur Road in a couple of days. “As the weather has suddenly changed, the traffic police are advising commuters to be careful while driving through the fog and control the speed of their vehicles,” said the ADCP, adding that a drive had already been launched to remove stationary vehicles from roads.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/now-trucks-tractor-trailers-to-get-reflective-tapes-in-ludhiana-101639523540643.html
15-12-2021||Chandigarh||Government employees in Ludhiana skipping second Covid dose to evade election duty||Afraid of being assigned election duty, several government employees are wilfully giving the second vaccine dose of the coronavirus a miss. The matter came to light when the officials cross-checked the employee records, and found that a large number of staffers had only been administered the first dose. Taking strict note of the matter, Jagraon additional deputy commissioner and Covid nodal officer Nayan Jassal directed all government employees to get the second dose of the vaccine at the earliest.“During data verification, it has come to my notice that many government employees were administered the first dose in the month of June, and have not received the second dose,” said Jassal. There are clear guidelines from the election commission that only those with a second dose will be assigned election duties. “It has also come to my notice that many employees are deliberately not taking the second dose to avoid deputation,” said Jassal, adding that those who have not received the second jab of the vaccine may face departmental action.In the meantime, a teacher and a student at a private school in BRS Nagar also tested positive on Saturday and Sunday, respectively.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/government-employees-in-ludhiana-skipping-second-covid-dose-to-evade-election-duty-101639523224436.html
15-12-2021||Chandigarh||11-year-old boy dies by suicide in Ludhiana||An 11-year-old boy was found hanging from the ceiling fan of his house in Baba Nand Singh Nagar, Ayali Road, on Monday night.The victim was a Class-8 student. The body has been sent to the civil hospital for postmortem. Head constable Tajinder Singh, who is investigating the case, said the boy had gone to attend a marriage in the neighbourhood with his family. However, he returned home early. Later, his family members were shocked to find him hanging from the fan. Family members say the victim was short tempered and would often threaten to end his life. Inquest proceedings have been initiated under Section 174 of Code of Criminal Procedure.Disclaimer: The veracity of any health claim made in the above article is the responsibility of the hospital/doctor concerned.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/11yearold-boy-dies-by-suicide-in-ludhiana-101639522804382.html
15-12-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana | Dumped by teenager, infant dies of cold||A newborn girl died of the cold after her 14-year-old mother, a rape victim, dumped her in a vacant plot after giving birth to her in the Salem Tabri area on Tuesday.The newborn has been sent to the to the civil hospital for autopsy and the police have also lodged an FIR against the man who raped and impregnated the teenager. The minor had not reported the rape to the authorities. An official, requesting anonymity, said that the teen mother had dumped her newborn child, wrapped in a flimsy sheet. The passersby were alerted to the child’s presence after a pack of dogs gathered around the child. The locals said they had spotted a teenager throw something in the plot. She was also captured on CCTV camera. Inspector Ramandeep Singh, station house officer, said the teenager said that a man, whom she knew, had established physical relations with her and impregnated her. Later, he had fled. She given birth to the baby girl alone on Monday, and to avoid a social scandal, she had dumped the newborn in the plot.As the teenager is herself a victim, no case has been registered against her for abandoning her baby. The rape accused has been booked under Sections 315 (act done with intent to prevent a child being born alive or cause it to die after birth) of the Indian Penal Code and under the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (Pocso) Act. The police will trace and arrest the accused soon.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-dumped-by-teenager-infant-dies-of-cold-101639522324356.html
15-12-2021||Mumbai||Civic body fumes over a very B-town outbreak||Mumbai’s municipal corporation scrambled on Tuesday to test and trace people who attended a high-profile Bollywood gathering after at least four people who attended the event tested positive for Covid-19, amid allegations by the civic body the top actors and stars flouted coronavirus restriction norms.The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) conducted tests at four residential buildings in Bandra, where Bollywood actors Kareena Kapoor, Amrita Arora, Johar, and actor Sohail Khan live, and collected close to 100 samples. The results are likely late on Tuesday or Wednesday.On Monday, BMC reported Kareena Kapoor and Amrita Arora tested positive for Covid-19, after they attended a private gathering at Johar’s home on December 8 with approximately 100 people.On Tuesday, Sohail Khan’s wife Seema Khan, his son, and sister-in-law also tested positive. BMC officials sealed the houses of Khan, Johar, Kapoor and Arora and asked the stars to remain isolated at home.“At the time she attended this event, Seema Khan was already a high-risk contact of a Covid-19 positive patient in her residential building. She should have quarantined herself, but did not and instead attended the party,” said Vinayak Vispute, assistant commissioner of the H/West ward in Bandra West.The city’s mayor also issued a stern warning and said the people who attended the party were careless and may have flouted Covid-19 curbs.“I can understand if some teenagers were present at such a party…those who are in the limelight, why don’t they fear Covid-19?” asked mayor Kishori Pednekar.Officials said the stars may have violated Covid protocol but they were yet to take any action because the affected people were still in hospital.During Tuesday’s testing camps, residents of these buildings were tested, along with drivers, house-helps, cooks, and security personnel. “In Seema Khan’s building, about 32 samples were collected, in Arora and Kapoor’s buildings a total of 40 samples were collected, and samples were also collected from Karan Johar’s building. These four buildings have been sealed,” said a senior civic body official, requesting anonymity.Suresh Kakani, additional municipal commissioner incharge of BMC’s public health department said 15 high-risk contacts and 15 other contacts of Kareena Kapoor and Amrita Arora were traced and tested. “As per the information we have at present, none of these people are positive,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/civic-body-fumes-over-a-very-b-town-outbreak-101639520283624.html
15-12-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: One arrested with 131 gram heroin||The operation cell of Chandigarh Police arrested one Jagmeet Singh Barar, 29, of Sector 63 with 131 gram heroin. The accused was arrested from a naka in Sector 49 on December 13. The police said that the accused was in a Hyundai Creta and tried to turn back after spotting a police team, but his vehicle was stopped. On checking, the police found 131 gram heroin in his possession. The police have also impounded the vehicle. A case under the NDPS Act has been registered at the police station of Sector 49. Man held with 208gm cannabis A man was arrested with 208gm cannabis in Abheypur village of Panchkula. The accused, Narender, a resident of Hardoi, Uttar Pradesh, and currently living in Abheypur village, was booked under the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act.Underground cables worth ₹1.5 lakh stolenThieves stole cables from BSNL’s underground duct near dividing road of sectors 43 and 35, police said on Tuesday. The complaint in this regard was lodged by Mamta Ahuja, SDOP-III South, BSNL, Sector 34, against unknown persons, who took away the cables worth ₹1.5 lakh. The matter had come to light on December 7 during laying of BSNL cables when a portion was found missing. A case under Section 379 of the IPC has been registered. 3 booked for stabbing man over old rivalryPolice have booked three persons for stabbing a man. Victim Pradhum of Colony No. 4 alleged that Mota, Rakesh Neena, and Balesar had attacked him with a knife in Mauli Jagran on December 12 owing to an old rivalry. Pradhum was admitted to GMCH-32, Chandigarh. A case under sections 147, 148, 149, 324, and 506 of the IPC and provisions of the Arms Act was registered has been registered but no arrests have been made so far. Previous executive committee of CAT Bar Association re-electedThe meeting of the general house of the Central Administrative Tribunal (CAT) Bar Association was held on Tuesday wherein the general house unanimously re-elected the previous executive committee of CAT Bar Association. Rohit Seth has been re-elected as the president, while KK Thakur is the vice-president, Jagdish Ram Syal secretary, Monika Koundal joint secretary and Sukhwinder Singh treasurer. This is the eighth term of Rohit Seth as the president. SBI staff body holds general council meetThe 9th triennial general council meeting of SBI staff association, Chandigarh circle, was held in Mohali on Tuesday. SBI’s Chandigarh circle chief general manager Anukool Bhatnagar inaugurated the conference and emphasized upon the services rendered by employees of SBI during the pandemic. General secretary Sanjeev Kumar Bandlish also raised the issue regarding the unilateral decision of the government regarding privatisation of public-sector banks and asked the members to participate in a strike called by United Forum of Banks Union on December 16 and 17.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-one-arrested-with-131-gram-heroin-101639519866640.html
15-12-2021||Chandigarh||Cop rescuing child beggars assaulted in Chandigarh||A Chandigarh Police constable, on duty to rescue child beggars, was assaulted by a man, who was part of the beggars’ group in Sector 34 on Monday. In his complaint, constable Sacheen, who is posted in the anti-human trafficking unit (AHTU) of the Chandigarh Police, Sector 17, said they found the group of child beggars behind the Health and Welfare District Office, Sector 34. When they approached the children, they ran towards some adults sitting on the footpath. So, the police team walked towards them. While Sacheen was talking to the adults in the group, one of them, who appeared to be inebriated, hit him on the nose. When he tried to catch the accused, he bit his hand and fled. Sacheen’s colleagues tried to chase the accused, but he managed to escape. Acting on the constable’s complaint, a case under Sections 332 and 353 of the IPC was registered at the Sector 34 police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/cop-rescuing-child-beggars-assaulted-in-chandigarh-101639519865218.html
15-12-2021||Chandigarh||First Omicron case in Chandigarh: 135 random samples collected to detect clustering||After a 20-year-old man was found infected with the Omicron variant and five of his family members tested Covid-19 positive, the UT health department and municipal corporation (MC) on Tuesday collected 135 random samples from Manimajra to check if the area is a cluster of infection.The samples will be tested using reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) technique, reports of which will be out on Wednesday.“As a routine precautionary measure, we collected 135 random samples from Manimajra to find the transmission rate in the area. We are expecting a low positivity rate among these samples as the Omicron-infected man and all his family members were in home quarantine for the past two weeks,” said Dr Suman Singh, director, health services (DHS), Chandigarh.The 20-year-old had landed at Sri Guru Ram Das Ji International Airport, Amritsar, on November 22, but tested negative for Covid-19 at the time. Later, he travelled to Chandigarh to meet his relatives who stay in Manimajra. As per protocol, he was put under home quarantine and re-tested on December 1, when he completed the eight-day quarantine period. In the second test, he was found infected with the virus. Due to his travel history, his samples were sent for genome sequencing to National Centre for Disease Control (NCDC), Delhi, to check for the variant of concern. On December 12, it was confirmed he was infected with Omicron, following which the area around his residence in Manimajra was sealed.The man and his five infected family members are still under home quarantine. The UT health department has already sent samples of his five family members for genome sequencing to NCDC. “All family members are fully vaccinated against Covid-19, and hence they are asymptomatic and are not severely infected. The health department is monitoring their health regularly,” said Dr Singh.The DHS added, “In UT, there is no cluster or hotspot of infection as the transmission is being restricted to only close contacts. Usually, only the family members of one infected person are coming out to be positive.”“Currently, the new cases comprise people from all age groups and walks of life, and have been found complacent in following Covid-appropriate behaviour. This is a crucial time as an increase in cases can lead to another surge. People must not lower their guards and wear face masks, maintain social distancing and should get vaccinated at the earliest,” she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/first-omicron-case-in-chandigarh-135-random-samples-collected-to-detect-clustering-101639519863662.html
15-12-2021||Chandigarh||Three arrested for cricket betting in Chandigarh||The crime cell of Chandigarh Police has arrested three persons for betting on a cricket match. The arrested accused have been identified as Manpreet of Khuda Lahora, Sanjeev alias Sonu and Vikram Singh, both hailing from Jind in Haryana. The accused were produced in a court on Tuesday. One-day remand of Sanjeev was procured by the police, while other two were sent to judicial custody. The trio was caught while they were betting online on a cricket match from a house in Sector 18 on December 13 following a tip-off. The police recovered ₹47,000, a laptop, a printer, an LED, TV accessories, and six mobile phones from their possession. A case under Section 420 of the IPC and provisions of the Gambling Act was registered at the Sector-19 police station. The police said that the accused were betting on a cricket match being played between Brisbane Heat and Melbourne Renegades on December 13. The accused had taken the house on rent three months ago, which was being used for betting during cricket matches. The police said that the accused used to take bets online and maintained a register for noting details of the people betting.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/three-arrested-for-cricket-betting-in-chandigarh-101639519625764.html
15-12-2021||Chandigarh||Anandpur Sahib- Naina Devi ropeway project hangs in balance||With no takers for the ambitious aerial ropeway project, aimed at linking the Sikh historic town of Anandpur Sahib to the Hindu religious shrine Naina Devi, the governments of Punjab and Himachal are set to float fresh tenders.The department will also change the conditions for the multi-crore ropeway project. The Himachal government had recently floated a bid for the ropeway project, for which a fresh agreement was signed with the Punjab government in 2019. However, it failed to find any takers. The project has been hanging fire for more than a decade. The plan for setting up the ropeway project was conceived in 2009 to connect two places of historical and religious importance to Sikhs and Hindus — Anandpur Sahib in Punjab with Naina Devi, located at an altitude of 1,177 metres on Shivalik hills of Bilaspur district in Himachal. Naina Devi is revered as the place where the eyes of Lord Shiva’s consort Sati fell after she set herself on fire and was cut into 51 pieces by Vishnu’s chakra. It is believed that Guru Gobind too went to Naina Devi and performed a yagna to seek blessings of the Goddess before leaving for his military campaign against the Mughals in 1756. More than 30 lakh tourists visit Naina Devi each year and the majority of them are from Punjab.“There were no bidders when we floated the tender, modalities and conditions laid in the tender will be reworked,” said Subashaish Panda, secretary, tourism. Himachal Pradesh government and Punjab government had floated a joint venture Shri Anandpur Sahib, Shri Naina Devi ropeway limited, which is headed by Punjab government’s additional chief secretary, tourism.The project was shelved owing to differences between the then Himachal chief minister Virbhadra Singh and former Punjab chief minister Prakash Singh Badal. The first memorandum of understanding (MoU) to execute the project between the two states was signed in July 2012, between chief minister Prem Kumar Dhumal and Punjab chief minister Prakash Singh Badal. The cost of the proposed project at that time was estimated at ₹85 crore. Congress when assumed reins shelved the project in June 2014. It was revived by chief minister Jai Ram Thakur, who inked a fresh MoU with his Punjab counterpart Amarinder Singh in 2018.The road distance between Anandpur Sahib and Naina Devi is 24.7 kilometres and the ropeway project will cut it down to 3.5 kilometres. The proposed ropeway alignment includes three terminals, with the lower one to be set up in Punjab and the intermediate and upper terminal to be set up in Himachal Pradesh. The ropeway would have the capacity to cater to at least 800 persons an hour per direction. 
15-12-2021||Chandigarh||Mohali: Two cab drivers held for robbing Kerala resident of ₹80,000||Sohana police on Tuesday arrested two cab drivers for allegedly robbing a Kerala resident of ₹80,000 and a mobile phone at knifepoint on December 10. The victim, Swat TK, had come from Kerala for a hair transplant procedure in Morinda. On December 10, he went to the airport to board a flight, but could not get the ticket. He then hired a cab from Airport Road to reach Delhi and occupied the passenger seat. After some distance, he told the police, the driver boarded another man, who sat on the rear seat and pointed a knife, threatening to kill him. The victim said he asked him to hand over the cash and other valuables he carried. The victim said they drove him for around two hours and later dropped him at a secluded place.The accused are Mohammad Zuber, a resident of Burail and Mohit Sharma alias Aman of Zirakpur. They were produced in a local court, which sent them to police remand till December 16. They were arrested from the Airport Road, the police said. The police have also recovered the WagonR car used in the crime. During interrogation, it come to the fore that both the accused used to work as taxi drivers in an app-based company. The complainant reached the Sohana police station and narrated the incident, following which police had registered a case against two unknown taxi drivers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/mohali-two-cab-drivers-held-for-robbing-kerala-resident-of-80000-101639519504167.html
15-12-2021||Chandigarh||Panchkula: Man, daughter lose ₹1.41 lakh to online fraudsters||An elderly man and his daughter from Khera village in Pinjore lost ₹1.41 lakh in an online fraud case, police said on Tuesday. The duo said they had received calls from a stranger, with whom they shared their Google Pay details, leading to the loss of money within a few minutes. An FIR was registered under sections 406 (criminal breach of trust) and 420 (cheating and dishonestly inducing delivery of property) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) at Pinjore police station. Complainant Harbans Singh stated in the FIR that on September 18, he got calls from two unknown numbers. “The person on call said that he knows me and owes money to my neighbours. He asked me to use Google Pay and by convincing me, he made me transfer ₹99,000 to him,” he told the police. “The accused told me that I will receive money in the account in a few minutes and later said that he was finding it difficult to transfer money and asked the Google Pay number of my daughter. I shared the number, following which he befooled my daughter as well and transferred ₹42,000 from her account as well in two transactions,” Harbans said. After that, the person did not answer our calls and his number is now switched off, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/panchkula-man-daughter-lose-1-41-lakh-to-online-fraudsters-101639519263803.html
15-12-2021||Chandigarh||Mohali man catches hold of thief with Activa stolen year ago||A Mohali man caught a thief driving his Activa which was stolen about a year ago, Chandigarh Police said on Tuesday. The accused, Arjun, 20, of Sector 49, was caught near the sector 46/47/48/49 light point and handed over to the police. Victim Uma Shankar Parshad of Phase 11 told the police that he worked at MCM DAV College in Sector 36. He said while on his way to work on Monday morning, he spotted his Activa stolen a year ago from Phase 11. A case of theft was registered on December 26, 2020, by his son at the Phase-11 police station, he added. Parshad followed the accused and informed the police. He said the accused had replaced the high security number plate and also tampered with the registration number of the vehicle to avoid being caught. He cross-checked the engine and chassis numbers to make sure it was his vehicle before handing over the accused to the police. A case under sections 411 and 473 of the IPC has been now registered at the Sector-49 police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/mohali-man-catches-hold-of-thief-with-activa-stolen-year-ago-101639519023875.html
15-12-2021||Chandigarh||UGC pay scales row: PU, college teachers protest in Chandigarh||Continuing with the demand for the immediate implementation of revised UGC pay scales as per the seventh pay commission by the Punjab government, teachers of Panjab University (PU) and affiliated colleges held a protest at Matka Chowk on Tuesday.The stir was a part of statewide education bandh under the banner of Punjab Federation of University and College Teachers Organisations (PFUCTO). The protest rally was organised by the Panjab University Teachers Association (PUTA) and Chandigarh unit of Punjab and Chandigarh College Teachers Union (PCCTU). Holding placards and raising slogans, the protesting teachers expressed their anguish and resentment towards the Punjab government for repeatedly making “false” promises and “befooling” the teaching community, which plays a significant role in educating these policy and decision makers. The teachers have decided to organise regular protests till their demands are met. PUTA in its statement said, “It is a pity that while the present government of Punjab keeps harping upon the importance of education for developing the state, the teachers of higher educational institutions have been forced to boycott all academic work and sit on the roads for their rights, which should have naturally come to them.”“It was therefore decided that if the government still fails to respond favourably to the demands of agitating teachers, intensified efforts would be strategized in future,” the statement added. A delegation of teachers also met some of the cabinet ministers of Punjab on Tuesday and submitted the memorandum of their demands to them.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ugc-pay-scales-row-pu-college-teachers-protest-in-chandigarh-101639518846234.html
15-12-2021||Chandigarh||Mohali medical college scales up facilities to tackle Covid cases||In order to tackle the possible third wave of Covid-19, Dr BR Ambedkar State Institute of Medical Sciences in Phase 6 here has set up a 100-bed makeshift hospital on the college premises. With this, the total bed capacity has reached 330.In the past four weeks, there is a slight uptick in Covid cases in the district.Mohali civil surgeon Dr Adarshpal Kaur said the cases were increasing and the third wave was expected now. “People have completely forgotten the take precautions,” she said. Dr Bhavneet Bharti, director principal of the medical college, said, “The main motive of the temporary hospital is to provide timely treatment and ramp up the bed capacity in the district. At present, we are running a vaccination centre in the makeshift hospital and soon, we will be setting up Covid skill lab.” She said that all four medical oxygen plants of 1,000 LPM in the medical college were functional. In the second wave, patients were shifted to other hospitals in the nearby districts.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/mohali-medical-college-scales-up-facilities-to-tackle-covid-cases-101639518723700.html
15-12-2021||Chandigarh||Gandhi Bhawan conservation project at Panjab University gets off the ground||The conservation work for Panjab University’s Gandhi Bhawan will soon get off the ground as a tender for the first phase of the project, which has been in development for the last few years, was recently released. The first phase of the project will see the restoration of the building’s accompanying reflecting pool, following which the focus will shift onto the outer panels and roof of the building.The Conservation Management Plan for the iconic building was prepared by Panjab University. The varsity had been the recipient of the Getty Foundation’s 2015 Keeping it Modern grant. The US-based foundation has provided a ₹1.4-crore grant to the department of Gandhian and Peace Studies for the conservation project. Manish Sharma, head of the department, said, “The work on the first phase of restoration will begin soon and we expect it to be completed before the next monsoon season.”The conservation plan was arrived upon after extensive background research, testing of materials, and technical analysis by a team of experts and organisations including the DRONAH and IIT Madras.Restoration of the reflective poolThe restoration work of the building’s reflective pool will start with careful removal of floor tiles, which would be assigned numbers based on positions. The process will be followed up with the cleaning of individual tiles, which will later be reused to level the pool’s concrete bed.The water proofing project, meanwhile, will involve the filling of any cracks in the pool base and masonry joints with an elastomeric material and applying a waterproofing coat on the entire surface.Restoration of external panelsThe work on the exterior cladding panels will be carried out in the second phase. Site inspections were conducted between December 2020 and September 2021 for a visual assessment and drawings were prepared. The defects in the panels were thus identified.In addition to the removal and refixing of the dislodged panels, the refixing of previously removed panels will also be carried out. The third and last phase of the project will see the restoration of the building’s roof.Inaugurated in 1962 by Dr Sarvepalli Radhakrishnan, the first president of independent India, the Gandhi Bhawan is a heritage building of architectural and cultural significance. The building is also a quintessential example of the modern buildings that came up during rapid expansion carried out in India in the 1950s and 60s. 
15-12-2021||Chandigarh||Newer parts of Chandigarh ailing too||Even though parts of ward number 35 of the Chandigarh municipal corporation fall under the third phase of the city development plan, here too, a number of civic issues exist.The ward comprises Sector 48, Sector 49, Sector 50 and Sector 63. Before the fresh delimitation, these areas came under wards 13 and 22. Stray dog menace, poorly maintained vacant lands and absence of a regular bus service are among the key issues faced by residents here.Even though door-to-door garbage collection takes place in these sectors, there still remain pockets where garbage is dumped on vacant land pieces. Residents also complain about broken streets at many places.Ravinder Singh Nagpal, 68, a resident of Sector 49, said, “Cleanliness is missing in certain pockets and vacant plots have become dump yards. A regular bus service is also required in the ward.”A common sentiment echoed by many residents is that completion certificates should be awarded to housing societies in a fixed time, as they have been pending for years now.They also raised the issue that MC should undertake internal maintenance of the housing societies in every respect as they pay property tax as well as internal maintenance charges to the society managements.A resident of Sector 48, who did not wish to be named, said, “Although MC is actively fixing whatever issues come here, some of the vacant spaces have been turned into garbage dumping zones. Further the ward is adjacent to villages like Jagatpura in Punjab from where many rowdy and unruly drivers frequently enter the city and drive dangerously.”Residents also complained about unhygienic surroundings near the motor market in Sector 48. In Sector 49, they said sometimes the street lights do not work properly at night. “Street light repair work is needed in some areas,” said Bhupinder Kumar, a shopkeeper in Sector 49.Moving to Sector 63, even though the area is smaller compared to other sectors, residents here also have a list of problems to show. They complained about lack of night security, stray cattle and dilapidated parks.Dharmvir Ahuja, 64, a resident of Sector 63, said, “Although the flats here are newly constructed, the water pipelines were broken within a few years and the residents had to replace them on their own. We do not have any nearby market. A beat box for law and order issue is also missing.”Know your ward:Localities: Sector 48, Sector 49, Sector 50 and Sector 63General wardVoters: 24,000 Key issues:Stray dog menace Poorly maintained vacant landsNo regular bus service Broken street lightsStray cattle Dilapidated parksLocal voices:There is no cleanliness at certain pockets and vacant lands here are not maintained well. A regular bus service should be provided in the area.Ravinder Singh Nagpal, a resident of Sector 49Several roads need repairs. Sometimes the street lights do not turn on properly.Bhupinder Kumar, a shopkeeper in Sector 49Even though the flats are newly constructed, water pipelines broke within a few years. There is no market nearby.Dharmvir Ahuja, a resident of Sector 63 The park here is poorly maintained and stray cattle menace also needs to be addressed.Rakesh Monga, a resident of Sector 63
15-12-2021||Chandigarh||Ambala domestic airport project gets first grant of ₹40 crore||The Union ministry of civil aviation has sanctioned a grant of ₹40 crore to begin the construction of the domestic terminal at the Ambala airport, Haryana home minister and local MLA Anil Vij said on Tuesday. The project is being taken up under the UDAN-3.0 scheme of the central government to boost regional connectivity. Under the project, the terminal will come up near Mama-Bhanja Peer on Jagadhri road in the vicinity of the airforce station from where passengers will be taken on a taxiway to board the aircraft. For flight operations, the airforce strip will be used, officials had said. “With this development, I hope the dream of having an airport in Ambala will soon become a reality. The process of construction of the domestic airport terminal will start now. The airport will facilitate flight operations to Lucknow and Srinagar,” Vij said in a statement. After hanging fire for almost two years due to the selection of land, officials of the district administration, Airports Authority of India (AAI) and Cantonment Board Ambala had met in April this year and mutually agreed on the land and gates of the proposed airport. The officials agreed on the transfer of nearly 15 acres of empty defence land near the airforce station. It was agreed that one gate will open on the Jagadhri road and the other inside the station, so that the flight operations could take place safely. Vij had met defence minister Rajnath Singh at least thrice in New Delhi and defence officials several times in Ambala and Chandigarh to resolve the deadlock. It is pertinent to mention here that the Ambala airforce station is home to Rafale and Jaguar aircraft and is crucial to the armed forces amid tensions with neighbouring China and Pakistan. Earlier, the administration had identified land in Dhankaur, Dhulkot, Garnala and Barnala villages adjoining the station, but couldn’t proceed due to a range of issues.Last week, Ambala deputy commissioner Vikram had visited the proposed site and chaired a meeting with the officials concerned, asking them to speed up the project.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ambala-domestic-airport-project-gets-first-grant-of-40-crore-101639518665148.html
15-12-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh to get third air quality monitoring station by January 2022||After a second Continuous Ambient Air Quality Monitoring Station (CAAQMS) was set up in Sector 22 this year, a third CAAQMS will be launched near the Sector 43 ISBT by January 2022, as per officials of the Chandigarh Pollution Control Committee (CPCC).Currently, the city has two air quality monitoring stations in Sectors 22 and Sector 25, and three manual observatories at Sector 17, Sector 39 IMTECH and PEC in Sector 12. The Sector 22 CAAQMS was earlier a manual observatory, run by the CPCC, before it was converted. The CAAQMS are maintained by the Central Pollution Control Board and provide hour-wise pollution data, which isn’t available at the manual observatories.Speaking about this, member secretary of CPCC, Debendra Dalai said, “We have set up the third observatory near the Sector 43 ISBT and the nearby main road as the focus was on pollution caused by vehicular traffic.” Similarly, the Sector 22 observatory focuses on the market area of the city and Sector 25 deals with the outskirts of the city.The CPCC has been running test runs at the centre, which had been readied around October itself, but due to some electrical faults it wasn’t launched. “Initial tests conducted on it say it is ready for use. With the election code in place, it will be inaugurated and opened in January now,” Dalai said.The CPCC also started an air purification tower in Sector 26 this year to clean air within its 500-metre radius. “The department is looking at the data for the whole year to correlate air quality with the seasons and to ascertain how beneficial the tower has been for the city,” Dalai added.Air quality deterioratesWith the temperature dropping, the Air Quality Index (AQI) went past 200 at the Sector 22 CAAQMS on Tuesday morning. It touched 200 at 3am and kept rising during the day, reaching 252 at 6pm. Between 201-300, AQI is considered poor and can cause breathing discomfort to most people with prolonged exposure. The air quality was better at the Sector 25 CAAQMS where it stayed between 100 and 200.India Meteorological Department (IMD) officials said with a western disturbance coming towards the region, the northerly winds which dispersed pollutants from the city’s air had stopped and due to falling temperature, inversion had also caused the AQI to rise. On Tuesday, the maximum temperature went down to 21°C from 21.1°C on Monday. The minimum temperature also dipped slightly from 8.8°C to 8°C. Highs and lows of 19°C and 7°C are expected over the next three days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-to-get-third-air-quality-monitoring-station-by-january-2022-101639518663841.html
15-12-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh MC polls: BJP asks five more rebel candidates to leave||A day after expelling five rebel candidates, the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) cracked the whip against five more candidates on Tuesday.Party president Arun Sood, taking a serious note of the “anti-party” activities, expelled Gopal Attri (Ward 3), Sohan Singh (Ward 8), Suresh Gupta (Ward 15), Sunita Sharma (Ward 21), Kulmeet Singh (Ward 17) and JJ Singh (Ward 35) with immediate effect.Attri, Sohan and Suresh are contesting the Chandigarh municipal corporation elections as independent candidates. Sharma is contesting from a Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) ticket, Kulmeet from Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) and JJ Singh from Aam Aadmi Party (AAP).On Monday, the party had shown the door to Gurpreet Singh Happy (Ward 9), Kripanand Thakur (Ward 20), Narender Chaudhary (Ward 26), Mukesh Goyal and Ashwani Gupta (Ward 32). All of them are in the fray as independent candidates against the party’s official candidates.Meanwhile, four rebel candidates have returned to the party fold. But even with senior party functionaries working overtime to get the rebel candidates to withdraw their nominations, the ruling party is still facing challenge from a dozen-odd more.AAP functionaries join BJPSeveral functionaries of the AAP joined the saffron cadre on Tuesday. The top leaders, including AAP’s state vice-president Arun Goyal, state vice-president Sunil Shingari, executive member Rakhi Sharma, state general secretary Gulshan Kapoor, Adarsh Goyal, Vijay Puri, Charanjit Kumar, Mohan Lal, Sarojini and Vinod Sharma joined the BJP in the presence of state BJP president Arun Sood, former BJP state president Sanjay Tandon, mayor Ravi Kant Sharma, party spokesperson Kailash Jain and former mayor Poonam at a function held at Kamalam, the BJP office in Sector 33.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-mc-polls-bjp-asks-five-more-rebel-candidates-to-leave-101639518609137.html
15-12-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: St Kabir closed till December 18 as student tests positive for Covid||St Kabir Public School, Sector 26, has been closed for three days after one of the students tested positive for Covid on Tuesday. The school authorities said that one student, who had attended the classes on December 10, has tested positive and experiencing mild symptoms.“Keeping in mind the concerns of our parent community, we have decided to revert to a totally online mode of education from December 15 to December 18. School-based examinations scheduled within these days are postponed and fresh dates will be intimated separately,” the school said in a public notice. The authorities further urged all parents to keep their kids under observation and get their RT-PCR test done in case any symptom shows up. There is, however, no change in the board examinations scheduled during this period and the same will be conducted in strict compliance with safety guidelines and protocols. The Class-12 term one exams for economics, Hindi (elective and core), political science and biology are scheduled during this period, which will be held as per the CBSE guidelines.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarhst-kabir-closed-till-december-18-as-student-tests-positive-for-covid-101639518607244.html
15-12-2021||Chandigarh||Conmen hoodwink Baltana man, make off with ₹99,000||A resident of Baltana lost ₹99,000 to conmen who handed him a bundle of paper in exchange of currency notes outside a bank in Sector 23, Chandigarh. In his complaint to the police, Ganesh Singh, a resident of Baltana, said he visited the SBI branch in Sector 23, on December 9, to withdraw cash to make a payment. There, two men approached him while he was filling the withdrawal form for ₹99,000 and started helping him. The duo then told him to hold onto a wad of notes wrapped in a handkerchief and told Ganesh that they will withdraw his money for him. After withdrawing the money, the accused walked out of the bank with Ganesh and asked him to keep the money wrapped in the handkerchief, while leaving with his cash. But on opening the bundle, he realised, it contained only paper and no currency notes. On his complaint, police on Tuesday registered a case under Sections 420 (cheating) and 120B (criminal conspiracy) of the Indian Penal Code at the Sector-17 police station. Police are scanning CCTV footage at the bank and outside to identify the accused.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/conmen-hoodwink-baltana-man-make-off-with-rs-99000-101639518605728.html
15-12-2021||Chandigarh||RITES to prepare roadmap to decongest Chandigarh roads by August 2022||The UT administration has set the ball rolling on the Chandigarh Mobility Plan by fixing August 2022 as the deadline for Rail India Technical and Economic Services (RITES) to submit its plan for decongesting city roads.In a meeting, chaired by UT adviser Dharam Pal to discuss the Comprehensive Mobility Plan for Chandigarh tricity area, the administration asked RITES, which will start the work in January 2022, to submit its report within eight months. The meeting, attended by senior UT officials and representatives of RITES, was held at the UT Secretariat on Tuesday.Pal said, “We had a preliminary meeting with RITES and fixed the timelines for the study. They will have to submit different progress reports after every two months. There will be an inception report, collection of data, presentation of draft report and presentation of final report. The entire process will have to be completed within eight months.”In this meeting, study objectives and vision for sustainable mobility for horizon year 2041 were also highlighted.“RITES will update the data of the its 2009 report and prepare the plan as per the latest guidelines of the Union ministry of road, transport and highways (MoRTH). It will conduct scenario analysis of different mobility options in different sectors and then submit which mass rapid transport system (MRTS) is the best suited for the tricity,” said Pal.RITES will also offer options to integrate mobility plan with land use plan and determine the optimal mix of multi-modal public transport network.Focus on green mobilityThe focus of the mobility plan will be to provide safe, secure, efficient, reliable and seamless connectivity for residents of Chandigarh, added Pal.In addition to this, the officials also focused on low-carbon mobility plan for the city as the key area for Chandigarh Comprehensive Mobility Plan (CMP). It was stressed that the existing transport system with current and future demands for public transport system should be kept in mind.Notably, in November this year, the administration, in a major push to create an eco-friendly transportation in the city, accepted the United Kingdom’s offer to provide technical assistance to develop a sustainable mobility plan for the city.The broad objective of the UK-funded study is to provide support for de-carbonising the city’s transport and contribute towards the climate change agenda. The study will also focus on suggesting alternative eco-friendly transport system for the city.The work on this study is also set to start in January.“Both consultants will work together. They will also examine different international options. Then they will integrate their mobility solutions. Our focus is on the green options within the comprehensive mobility plan,” said Pal.MRTS plans revived in August this year After years in cold storage, MRTS plans were revived in August this year by the administration after it decided to go in for a fresh study on the comprehensive mobility plan for the city.The earlier RITES report, prepared more than a decade ago, was found to be outdated as the city’s requirements changed drastically during this period and also, the guidelines set by MoRTH of the MRTS project changed.With a population of over 12 lakh and 15 lakh registered vehicles, Chandigarh has the highest density of vehicles per household in the country, leading to traffic congestion and snarls. In addition to these, over two lakh vehicles on interstate routes cross the city daily.Since the metro rail plans were shelved, the administration has not been able to opt for any other alternative, such as monorail, skybus or metrolite.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/rites-to-prepare-roadmap-to-decongest-chandigarh-roads-by-august-2022-101639518603756.html
15-12-2021||Chandigarh||BJP insulted Chandigarh people: Congress||The Chandigarh Congress on Tuesday accused BJP of insulting city people by not fulfilling the 15 promises the party made in its vision document in 2016. In a statement issued here, Rajiv Sharma, spokesperson of Chandigarh Congress, said the BJP has denigrated the sanctity of election manifesto as not only did it fail to fulfil any of the 15 promises it made, but also did not even try to take steps to implement them. He said the BJP did not even try to convert all leasehold properties into freehold ones. “The BJP totally failed to provide affordable residential houses to the people of Chandigarh in the last six years. They did not launch a single scheme to provide affordable houses,” he added. He further said that the BJP could not get the land allotted to residential, commercial, government and cultural, social, and religious institutions to the Chandigarh Housing Board for building affordable houses as per their third promise. “They went back on their other promise to allot residential houses to people in villages by getting the oustees rehabilitation plan passed. Such a plan did not come on the agenda of the BJP for discussion, leave alone passing and implementing it,” Sharma added. No new community centres in newly developed sectors of Chandigarh were built in last few years, he said. It was further stated that no progress was made to start new Jan Aushadhi Centres in hospitals and establish new schools. The promised ‘Film City’ is also nowhere to be seen, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/bjp-insulted-chandigarh-people-congress-101639518543572.html
15-12-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh MC polls: ‘BJP only party capable of giving stable government’||Union minister of state for defence and culture Ajay Bhatt on Tuesday said that the people of Chandigarh have been introduced to the fact that development and trust are enshrined with the BJP. “This is the only party which is capable of giving a stable government to the city as well as at the Centre,” said Bhatt, who was in town to campaign for BJP candidates ahead of upcoming Chandigarh MC elections. Bhatt addressed a series of public meetings in support of party candidate Heera Negi (Ward 22), Bhupinder Sharma (Ward 34), Rashi Bhasin (Ward 10) and Vimla Dubey (Ward 9). Bhatt said the trust of the people is the capital of the BJP, which proved to be the constant force behind peoples’ representatives resetting the all-round development. Bhatt in his addresses said the elections are fought on the basis of development works. “The BJP that formed the existing municipal corporation is fully confident this time by the virtue of its deeds,” he said. Referring to the development of the country by PM Narendra Modi at the Centre, Bhatt said the mayors of Chandigarh have also maintained the tradition of ‘Jan Sewa’ at the grassroots level in the last six years. Taking a dig at the opposition parties, Bhatt said other parties do not have issues, so they are now misleading the people by creating misunderstandings, but educated people will no longer be misled by them.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-mc-polls-bjp-only-party-capable-of-giving-stable-government-101639518366232.html
15-12-2021||Chandigarh||War of videos intensifies as Chandigarh MC poll campaign enters its last phase||From the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) delivering a personalised message from Arvind Kejriwal to the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) encapsulating its ‘achievements’ of six years in a one-minute video and the Congress ‘highlighting’ the BJP’s failures during its regime, a war of videos has started as the Chandigarh municipal poll campaign enters its last week. These videos are being shared on different social media platforms, but it is the WhatsApp and Telegram on which the parties are using the ‘groups’ to reach out to as many people as possible. The party workers are being encouraged to form these groups and share content while Chandigarh residents are being encouraged to join these. Candidates and parties are also sharing messages directly with the people of city. The videos are generally less than one minute with infographics and catchy background music. Though the parties are sharing same kind of media to amplify their campaign messages, their strategy and focus differ largely. AAP’s Delhi model For the AAP contesting its first MC election in Chandigarh, the focus is on its ‘Delhi Model’ and Kejriwal as its main icon. “Hello haanji namashkar ji, main Arvind Kejriwal bol raha hoon…” is how the pre-recorded video message from the AAP supremo starts as he seeks votes from Chandigarh residents. Referring to the city slipping in Swachh Survekshan rankings, Kejriwal goes on to assure in the video that the party will once again make Chandigarh the ‘City Beautiful’ and ‘free of corruption’. In its video messages, the AAP is also focusing on the ‘guarantees’ it is promising to the voters. “We are also highlighting the failures of both the BJP and the Congress in the last 25 years of their rule. With the campaign being run in the background of the Covid pandemic, the party is using these videos extensively across different platforms,” said Prem Garg, Chandigarh AAP convener. The AAP is also encouraging its candidates to share their individual videos, though the focus on the ‘Delhi Model’ remains there too. BJP drums up its achievementsBJP’s video begins with “Chandigarh BJP sarkar ke kaam sirf 60 second mein, aankh na jhapakna…” and goes on to list more than 60 development works completed by the party in the last six years of its MC rule. Other BJP videos take sector-wise approach and describe what the party has achieved in these areas in terms of education, senior citizen welfare, health and infrastructure. “Development is the main poll plank for the party in the MC elections. So, it is now about our achievements in the videos, and nearer to election day we will share our vision for the Chandigarh’s future. We are getting tremendous response from residents,” said Arun Sood, BJP’s Chandigarh state president.In addition to Chandigarh BJP’s Twitter and Facebook handles, party workers are also sharing these videos on WhatsApp and Telegram groups. Chandigarh MP Kirron Kher, with more than 4.2 lakh followers, is also actively sharing videos on her Twitter account. Congress’ street playsThe Congress campaign videos primarily highlight the ‘failures’ of the BJP in the last six years. Also, some show how the city ‘gained’ during the 15-year rule of Congress. Party’s city chief Subhash Chawla also regularly shares his videos in attempt to brief the electorates and give response to the rival parties on different issues. But with the AAP and the BJP having a head start over the Congress in terms of campaign videos, the party has now introduced street plays (nukkad nataks) as a campaign tool. The theme though remains the same: ‘Failures of BJP in last six years’. Volunteers of the party from Punjab and Chandigarh have been roped in to highlight the problems faced by the residents of the city. City slipping in swachh rankings, Dadumajra garbage dump, taxes, and inflation are some of the common themes. 
15-12-2021||Chandigarh||Committed to making Chandigarh no. 1 again: AAP||The Aam Aadmi Party is not for freebies, but to also improve public services by exploring alternative revenue generation models, said the party’s election campaign incharge, Chandermukhi Sharma, in a press conference here on Tuesday. “The AAP is committed to making the city number 1 again for which it has recently conducted a survey among the people regarding their problems,” he added. “The survey was conducted in all 35 wards, where people were asked about their problems and suggestions were taken from 21,987 residents. In the survey, 12,622 men and 9,365 women were included from the age group of 18 to 35,” said Sharma.He said the AAP would provide free 20,000 litres of drinking water, Wi-Fi hotspots, smart parkings, and free-of-cost facilities to the residents after winning the MC elections with an absolute majority. Apart from this, the party will also provide free garbage collection facility to the people under a mechanism, he added. Sharma further said that free e-rickshaws will also be made available for the residents. Free ambulance facility will be provided in every ward of the corporation and booking of all community centres will be free for the prayer meetings for the dead, the party’s election campaign incharge said. Sharma said that working women in Chandigarh find it difficult to keep their young children in crèches. “To get rid of this problem, crèches will be built in every ward of the city, where women will be able to drop their children by paying a nominal fee,” he said, adding that baby minders (aayas) will also be appointed and safety of children would be ensured. “All these free services will be provided by tapping into the full potential of advertising spaces in the city. We will also rope in CSR funds. We have already talked to them and soon after the AAP wins elections, we will introduce these,” said Sharma.The party will incorporate the findings of the survey in its manifesto, which it is likely to release in a couple of days, he added. Kejriwal in city on December 19AAP supremo and Delhi CM Arvind Kejriwal will be in city on December 19. Party co-incharge Pardeep Chhabra said, “Kejriwal will hold a public rally. This will give a boost to the party in the coming MC polls.” Kejriwal is one of the star campaigners of the party.Earlier, the party had planned a roadshow for Kejriwal’s visit, but with the state election commission’s Covid guidelines prohibiting road shows, it was dropped, Chhabra added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/committed-to-making-chandigarh-no-1-again-aap-101639517883626.html
15-12-2021||Chandigarh||Railways’ Ferozepur division ferried 13.9 lakh tonnes of cargo in November||The Ferozepur Division of the Northern Railways loaded around 13.9 lakh tonne of cargo in November, around 184% more than the corresponding period in 2020. In November, the division earned a revenue of around ₹258 crore in November through freight transportation. Divisional railway manager Seema Sharma said “To facilitate small traders, food items, paper and potatoes were loaded in 99 retail wagons through piecemeal loading. Potatoes were shipped from the Kapurthala railway station to north-eastern states such as Jorhat and New Tinsukia in Assam and Dimapur in Nagaland. Two kisan special trains were sent from the Jalandhar city railway station to Agartala in Tripura. Food items were loaded from Moga, Sahnewal and Phillaur railway stations and sent to Changsari, Jorhat, Guwahati and Sankrail.”  “Tractors from Nasrala, Hoshiarpur, were sent to Benapole in Bangladesh, apart from differentparts of the country. The tractors were loaded on 199 wagons in November, which was around 75% more than the same period last year,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/railways-ferozepur-division-ferried-13-9-lakh-tonnes-of-cargo-in-november-101639517403661.html
15-12-2021||Delhi||Man kills Delhi woman after hiding from her that he was married||A 29-year-old man was arrested for allegedly abducting a 20-year-old woman from central Delhi’s Karol Bagh on Friday and killing her in a forested area near Surajkund in Haryana’s Faridabad the next day, police said on Tuesday.The police said the suspect, identified only by his first name Asif, was in a relationship with the woman and had met her while painting the walls of the house in central Delhi’s Karol Bagh where she was employed as a domestic help. According to the police, the suspect did not inform the woman that he was already married, and allegedly murdered her when she began asking him to marry her.The police said the victim’s mother filed a missing person complaint at the DBG Road police station in central Delhi on Friday.The police checked CCTV cameras from the workplace and found that she had left around 7pm. A case of kidnapping was registered and investigation taken up, said deputy commissioner of police (central) Shweta Singh Chauhan.DCP Chauhan said that on Sunday, the Surajkund police found the woman’s body in a forested area, following which her parents identified the body as their daughter’s. The police said a dupatta was found tied around her neck, suggesting that she was strangled to death. Accordingly, the murder charge was added to the kidnapping case.During subsequent investigations, the police team scanned CCTV cameras of the neighbourhood where the woman worked and found that on Thursday, the woman had gone to a cake shop in the neighbourhood with an unknown man, later identified as Asif. The police then arrested him and based on his call detail records, he was found to be in constant touch with the victim over the phone.“We questioned Asif and he confessed to killing her,” added the DCP.During questioning, the police said, Asif revealed that he befriended the woman while working in the house. The woman later expressed a wish to marry him but since he was already married, he allegedly hatched the plan to murder her, police said.He allegedly asked her to meet him in Karol Bagh on Friday, and the two later went on his bike to a hotel in Faridabad where he reportedly tried to come clean about his marriage and promised to divorce his first wife.However, an altercation allegedly broke out between them and Asif allegedly pacified her by promising to marry her the next day.He allegedly took the victim to a forested area on Saturday where he attacked her with a kitchen knife, the DCP said.“In the ensuing scuffle, the knife broke and fell on the ground. Asif panicked and finding no option, he strangled her using her dupatta. To avoid suspicion, he resumed his duty at the workplace on Sunday,” added DCP Chauhan.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/man-kills-delhi-woman-after-hiding-from-her-that-he-was-married-101639516888261.html
15-12-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana: Punjab govt awards grants to schools for development plans||Cabinet Minister Gurkirat Singh Kotli on Tuesday awarded grants to a number of schools and organisations for requisite development plans.The district development and panchayat officer (DDPO), Khanna, sent a letter, with attached demand drafts, to the block development and panchayat officer, instructing them to distribute the same at the earliest.The DDPO office clearly stated that the receipt of every draft should be sent back with signatures of the recipients. ₹10 lakh drafts were given to the Bhagwan Valmiki Bhagwan Dr. Ambedkar Youth Welfare Society, the Mahant Ganga Puri Badhir Vidyalaya and the Shri Vishkarma Educational Welfare Sabha, and ₹7 lakh each to the Sarpanch Gram Panchayat Rohno Kalan and the AS Senior Secondary School. The Atam Manohar Jain Senior Secondary School, the Sarpanch Gram Panchayat Taunsa, the Punjab Khatri Chetna Manch, the Government Primary School Bhattian were also awarded ₹5 lakh each.  ₹2 lakh each was earmarked for the Planet E School Samrala Road and the Guru Ravidas Kalyan Samiti.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-punjab-govt-awards-grants-to-schools-for-development-plans-101639516863146.html
15-12-2021||Delhi||Panel to examine rain harvesting structures||With a number of rainwater harvesting (RWH) systems installed across Delhi either found to be non-functional or contaminating the groundwater, the National Green Tribunal (NGT) has formed a joint committee comprising of the Central Pollution Control Board, the ministries of Jal Shakti and Urban Development to fix remedial measures.In an order issued on Tuesday, NGT said the committee can call a meeting of all stakeholders and issue directions to not just Delhi but all states and UTs so that remedial measures could be taken to fix the current RWHs and install more across the city.“Ministry of Jal Shakti will be the nodal agency for this purpose,” said a bench headed by Justice Adarsh Kumar Goel.The tribunal was hearing a plea filed by city resident Mahesh Chandra Saxena, who in his plea had said most RWH systems were unscientific and contaminating the groundwater.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/panel-to-examine-rain-harvesting-structures-101639516523331.html
15-12-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana admn pays tribute to Param Vir Chakra recipient Nirmanjit Singh Sekhon||A wreath-laying ceremony was on Tuesday organised at the Mini Secretariat to mark the martyrdom day of Flying Officer Nirmaljit Singh Sekhon, the only Param Vir Chakra recipient from the Indian Air Force. Varinder Kumar Sharma, deputy commissioner, along with senior Air Force officers, paid tribute to Sekhon by laying a wreath as the Punjab Police presented the Guard of Honour. Sekhon, born on July 17, 1943, was commissioned in Indian Air Force on July 04, 1967. He is remembered for exhibiting immense courage at the time of the December 14, 1971 attacks at the Srinagar Air Field, during the Indo-Pak war. Despite being under attack, Sekhon displayed exceptional flying skills and took off to counter the six-aircraft-strong Pakistani attack, destroying two enemy aircrafts and forcing the others to return. Being heavily outnumbered, Sekhon eventually made the supreme sacrifice in the service of the nation and was martyred.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-admn-pays-tribute-to-param-vir-chakra-recipient-nirmanjit-singh-sekhon-101639516624052.html
15-12-2021||Delhi||Delhi govt appointed 3-member panel to look into Bhalswa landfill fire||Three days after a fire broke out at the Bhalswa landfill, the Delhi government on Tuesday constituted a three-member committee to investigate the blaze and submit its report within two days.Delhi environment minister Gopal Rai said the committee -- headed by senior environmental engineer DK Singh and comprising senior scientific officer Dr Chetna and environmental engineer Rajiv Sharma -- has been asked to look into the reasons behind the fire and submit a detailed report within two days, based on which the environment department will take action to ensure there is no repeat of such an incident.“The environment department has formed a three-member committee to investigate the fire which broke out at the Bhalswa landfill. The committee has been directed to look into every aspect and possible reasons behind the fire. The members have also been instructed to submit a report to the environment department within two days, after which appropriate action would be taken to ensure such instances do not occur in future,” said Rai.The Bhalswa landfill comes under the jurisdiction of the BJP-ruled North MCD. Elections to the three municipal corporations are scheduled for early next year.“It was discovered that due to the fire at the Bhalswa landfill site, piles of garbage were spilled everywhere around the site and the smoke made the air barely breathable for the people around. Reportedly, many such unfortunate instances of fires have taken place in the past, but the North MCD has not taken any action to prevent them,” said Rai, adding that landfill fires are a major contributor to Delhi’s air pollution.North MCD spokespersons did not respond to requests seeking a comment.On Monday, Delhi BJP spokesperson Praveen Shankar Kapoor said that small fires in landfills are common across the world, and attributed it to gas build up. “The issue has been raised after two days and a small fire has been exaggerated to be a major incident,” he said, replying to an earlier AAP charge.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-govt-appointed-3-member-panel-to-look-into-bhalswa-landfill-fire-101639516276153.html
15-12-2021||Chandigarh||NGOs want Ludhiana police to implement Clean Air Plan in city||Members of Public Action Committee (PAC), EcoSikh and other organisations working on environmental issues in Punjab gave a representation to police commissioner Gurpreet Singh Bhullar, via deputy commissioner of police SPS Dhindsa, seeking implementation of aspects of the Clean Air Plan for Ludhiana that relate to the police. Dhindsa assured the members that the matter will be taken up by the department on priority.Supreet Kaur, president of EcoSikh, said, “The action plan was submitted by the directorate of environment and climate change, department of science, technology and environment, government of Punjab, to the National Green Tribunal on April 30, 2019. We want the departments concerned to start implementing what they have been promising, so that some improvements on the ground can be seen.”Gagnish Khurana, who has been working on clean air initiatives for many years, said, “The action plan has three major points concerning the police, which were highlighted in the memorandum. First, the pollution certificate check of vehicles should be strictly enforced to ensure better compliance. The number of challans in Ludhiana have come down from 11,315 in 2018 to 1,178 in 2020. This should be tightened to ensure better compliance with pollution norms. Secondly, the WhatsApp number promised in the action plan for citizens to report vehicle pollution related cases should be started as soon as possible. Also, the synchronised traffic light system promised in the action plan should also be implemented on priority. “Kapil Arora from Council of Engineers, Jaskirat Singh of Naroa Punjab Manch and Gurpreet Kaur of EcoSikh were also part of the delegation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ngos-want-ludhiana-police-to-implement-clean-air-plan-in-city-101639516277846.html
15-12-2021||Other||Ludhiana MC seals eight illegal shops in residential area||The building branch of municipal corporation on Tuesday sealed eight commercial establishments in New BRS Nagar which were constructed in violation of building bylaws.Assistant town planner (ATP) MS Bedi said action was taken following the orders of Punjab and Haryana high court. He added that the shops had been sealed in 2019, but some relaxations were issued later as the occupants of the shops said they had suffered losses due to the pandemic.Recently, the area residents lodged a complaint demanding the closure of these illegal establishments in the residential area. Bedi said that the shops sealed during the drive were being used as godowns by musical groups and wedding caterers. He added that the team did not face any opposition and the drive concluded smoothly.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ludhiana-mc-seals-eight-illegal-shops-in-residential-area-101639515604117.html
15-12-2021||Chandigarh||Court extends stay on demolition of former Jammu and Kashmir deputy CM till Jan 28||The judicial member of J&K special tribunal, Jammu, Rajesh Sekhri on Tuesday extended the stay against demolition of a house belonging to former deputy chief minister Nirmal Singh and his wife Mamta Singh in Nagrota, till January 28. The special tribunal allowed Nirmal Singh and his wife to file objections in an application filed by whistleblower advocate Muzzaffar Ali Shah. Shah has sought his impleadment as party respondent in the appeal filed by Mamta Singh against the demolition order of their house situated at Ban village, Panjgrain (Nagrota). During the hearing, advocate Adarsh Sharma, appearing for JDA, filed a detailed reply and objections to the appeal preferred by Mamta Singh. In the objections, JDA stated that the area of village Ban/Panjgrain (Nagrota) was notified in the local area limits of JDA, as such, any person who undertakes/intends to construct something in the land notified in the local area limits outside JMC limits has to take a valid legal building permission for construction from JDA, as it is the custodian of the master plan. JDA has also denied the stand of the appellant of Nirmal Singh and his wife Mamta Singh with regard to the completion of the construction of their house in 2017. The JDA, in its reply, categorically submitted that the appellant constructed the house without permission from the competent authority as the area. The plot is part of land measuring 12 acres purchased by some senior BJP leaders through a company Himgiri Infrastructure Development Limited, of which Mamta Singh was a shareholder. A month after construction of the house started in October 2017, the Army informed and requested the then deputy commissioner, Jammu, through a letter on November 2, 2017, to order the police authority and civil administration concerned stop it since the activity was in violation of the Works of Defence Act, 1903. Nirmal Singh was then the deputy CM. The Army had also lodged a written complaint before SHO Nagrota on November 27, 2017, and also approached Jammu SSP on December 12 for registration of an FIR. However, there were no action, which compelled the then Corps Commander 16 Corps Lt General Saranjeet Singh to write a letter on March 19, 2018 to Nirmal Singh, who was deputy CM then. Army then moved the High Court in May 2018 and the matter is sub-judice.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/court-extends-stay-on-demolition-of-former-jammu-and-kashmir-deputy-cm-till-jan-28-101639514822654.html
15-12-2021||Delhi||Do not seek sympathy, it will stereotype you: Delhi HC judge to women lawyers||Delhi high court judge, justice Prathiba M Singh, on Tuesday advised women lawyers to not seek sympathy from the court, lawyers and even their clerks, saying that “it stereotypes them”.Speaking on the achievements and challenges of women at the Bar at an event organised by “Women in Law and Litigation”, justice Singh also said that women should know how to manage their time in a competent manner. The event was organised to felicitate justice Hima Kohli, a Supreme Court judge.“Don’t seek sympathy from the court or from lawyers on the other side or even your clerk. You don’t have to tell them that my child is unwell, I have to pick up my daughter from school. Please don’t do that... That stereotypes you,” she said.Justice Singh, who was elevated as a judge of the Delhi high court in 2013, said that women should not keep a “sacrificial mentality” and keep helps to assist her.“Always keep a domestic help, a driver. Don’t think that ‘I have to sacrifice’. Sacrificial mentality is not required for women. You just have to fight it. Always keep a driver because then you can work in the car,” she asserted.She exhorted women lawyers to face all the stress with a smile: “Your child may feel ‘mummy ghar pe nahi hoti (mummy is not at home)’ but one day, he/she will be proud that you are a lawyer.”She also praised the Delhi high court and described it as the most cosmopolitan court where religion, caste and marital status are irrelevant, even though she said that women who make it as senior lawyers at the court often had to work twice as hard as their male counterparts. Justice Singh suggested that women lawyers should be well read and should not shout in the courts.“Pick your battles and don’t fight with everyone…Don’t shout in the court...else people will say, ‘Bhaisahab, badi ladaki hai’. Also, don’t be too soft... otherwise they will say, ‘aawaz nahi nikalti’,” she said as the entire gathering burst out in laughter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/do-not-seek-sympathy-it-will-stereotype-you-delhi-hc-judge-to-women-lawyers-101639513952517.html
15-12-2021||Chandigarh||5 of extended family killed, 2 hurt in Ramban road mishap||At least five people, including the driver of the ill-fated Tempo Traveller, died when the vehicle veered off the road and plunged into a 500-ft deep gorge in Ramban district, said officials. Ramban district commissioner, Mussarat-ul-Islam, who rushed back to the spot, said, “Those who died were part of an extended family. The dead include four women and the driver while two other occupants, who sustained injuries, have been shifted to Ramban district hospital.” The DC said the family was returning home to Doda from Ramban after offering condolences to the family of ASI Ghulam Hussain Bhat. Bhat was among two policemen killed in Srinagar on Monday after terrorists targeted a bus carrying policemen. The DC said prima facie it appears that the driver of the ill-fated vehicle failed to negotiate a sharp bend that caused the accident. “It is a very remote and hilly area with no parapets by the narrow and congested road. The driver, it appears, failed to negotiate a sharp curve,” he said. The DC, who had also gone to meet the family of the deceased ASI, had rushed back to the accident site and monitored the rescue operation. The vehicle fell from Chanderkote-Kastigarh link road, into Chamutri Nullah at Chilai in Chuchater village in Rajgarh tehsil of the district.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/5-of-extended-family-killed-2-hurt-in-ramban-road-mishap-101639514042684.html
15-12-2021||Chandigarh||‘Pak trained terrorist’ killed in Poonch, aide on the run||Security forces on Tuesday gunned down a foreign mercenary, specially trained to operate in Rajouri-Poonch area with a possible aim of orchestrating a strike in Behramgala area of Poonch district, said officials. He was identified as Abu Zarara. “In a successful joint operation, Indian Army and Jammu and Kashmir Police eliminated one terrorist in Behramgala. The operation was launched on Monday, after receiving specific intelligence on presence of armed terrorists in the area,” said defence spokesperson Lt Col Devender Anand. “During the encounter in early hours of Tuesday, the terrorist attempted to escape while opening fire at security personnel. However, he was neutralised in the ensuing fire,” Lt Col Anand added. An AK-47 assault rifle, four magazines and pouches have been recovered from the slain terrorist. “The Pak-trained terrorist was first detected in August this year. He was probably part of Pakistan’s efforts to revive terrorism in South of Pir Panjal. While the terrorist and his accomplice have been on the run, taking shelter in deep jungles for the past few months, their need for food, clothing and communication (mobile) forced them to contact civilian population,” said the spokesperson. Indian Army, in joint effort with the police, monitored this mobile communication on a near real-time basis while the locals provided crucial information on the movement of suspects. “This enabled the security forces to corner the terrorists, force them to get away to higher reaches of Pir Panjal ranges despite onset of winters,” he added. As the terrorists got isolated and moved away from civilian populated area, security forces launched a clinical operation after receiving a specific input from locals in Behramgala area. “The terrorists attempted to get away by opening fire on security forces, but this foreign terrorist was eliminated in return fire, while his accomplice is on the run,” he said. “The recovery of AK- 47, four magazines (filled), one grenade & some Indian currency clearly reveal Pakistan’s complicity with this terrorist,” said Col Anand. This was the eighth terrorist to be eliminated this year in the region. Recently Haji Arif, a dreaded terrorist guide was also eliminated on the LoC in the Rajouri sector. 
15-12-2021||Chandigarh||Jammu and Kashmir logs 2 Covid deaths, 134 infections||Jammu and Kashmir reported 134 fresh Covid-19 infections and two deaths on Tuesday, an official health bulletin said. Of the total cases, 103 cases and both fatalities were reported in Kashmir valley and while the Jammu division saw 31 infections. The summer capital, Srinagar, had the maximum, 44, cases while Baramulla had the second highest with 26 cases. Jammu logged 19 cases. As many as 16 districts saw single digit or zero cases.Srinagar district currently has the highest number of active cases at 518 followed by Baramulla and Jammu districts with 192 and 186 active cases respectively.The number of patients who were cured in the UT was 147 with active positive cases reaching 1,427. The government’s daily health bulletin also said that 43,765 vaccine doses were administered on the day.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/jammu-and-kashmir-logs-2-covid-deaths-134-infections-101639513142896.html
15-12-2021||Chandigarh||2015 sacrilege case: Punjab Police SIT grills dera head in Sunaria jail for second time||The Punjab Police’s special investigation team (SIT) probing the 2015 sacrilege cases on Tuesday visited the Sunaria jail in Haryana’s Rohtak district again and questioned Dera Sacha Sauda head Gurmeet Ram Rahim Singh for the second time in less than two months. The SIT led by Ludhiana range inspector general of police (IGP) Surinder Pal Singh Parmar asked around 90 questions from the sect leader during his six hours grilling over his alleged role in the theft of a ‘bir’ (copy) of Guru Granth Sahib from a gurdwara at Burj Jawahar Singh Wala village in faridkot district on June 1, 2015, and the subsequent sacrilege incidents. An official privy to the development said the questions were asked to bring clarity as the replies of Ram Rahim during his previous interrogation and that of sect vice-chairperson Prithvi Raj Nain were contradictory. The team will now file a second status report on Ram Rahim’s interrogation, including a copy of the questionnaire and replies, in the Punjab and Haryana high court before December 17, when the matter is scheduled for hearing on his pleas seeking anticipatory bail and quashing of production warrants issued by a Faridkot court. The move is also seen as an attempt by the SIT to counter Ram Rahim’s another plea demanding that the CBI be asked to continue probe into the 2015 sacrilege cases and the SIT probe be stayed. The SIT is likely to push for the dera chief’s custodial interrogation in Faridkot on production warrants citing his ‘non-cooperation’ during the questioning in the Sunaria jail. IGP Parmar said, “We put more questions before Ram Rahim to crosscheck certain aspects as many queries arose after Nain’s interrogation. Again, most of the replies of Ram Rahim were evasive. A status report will be filed in the high court on his interrogation.” The SIT had prepared a new set of questions for Ram Rahim on the basis of 200 queries asked from Nain and documents collected from the dera headquarters in Sirsa. The SIT on December 10 visited the dera headquarters and questioned Nain for more than four hours. Nain answered 75 questions and requested to discontinue citing health issues. On this, the SIT gave him a list of 125 questions to which he submitted his replies on Monday. On November 8, the SIT had asked 114 questions from Ram Rahim during his 7-hour grilling in the S jail and submitted a 65-page status report in the high court four days later. In the report, the SIT claimed that the conspiracy of desecration of Sikh scriptures was hatched at the sect’s administrative block in Sirsa and that the followers never acted without the permission of Ram Rahim. In July 2020, after the arrest of seven dera followers, the SIT-led by then inspector general of police Ranbir Singh Khatra had named Ram Rahim and sect’s three national committee members—Sandeep Bareta, Pardeep Kler and Harsh Dhuri—as accused in the Burj Jawahar Singh Wala sacrilege case. Last month, sect administration wing chairperson Vipassana Insan and Nain were summoned on multiple occasions by the SIT but they failed to appear. While the SIT managed to question Nain last week, they are still to trace Vipassana. 
15-12-2021||Chandigarh||Chargesheet filed against Sukhbir Badal, others in Zira court in 2017 road blockade case||Police have filed a chargesheet against Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) president Sukhbir Singh Badal and others in a 2017 road blockade case in a Zira court in Ferozepur district. The challan was filed on October 21 but the matter was not reported yet. Activists Parvinder Singh Kitna of SBS Nagar, Kuldeep Singh Khaira of Ludhiana and Hakam Singh of Chandigarh had approached the high court in 2019 seeking action against the Akali leaders who were booked for causing road blockades across the state. In a press statement issued on Tuesday, the activists said the case was registered against Sukhbir at the Makhu police station. According to details uploaded on the Zira court website, the first of the four hearings so far took place on October 21. The court adjourned the matter to January 11 next year in the last hearing on November 29. On the activists’ plea demanding action against the Akali leaders, the HC has fixed the next hearing on March 17 next year. On December 8, 2017, the police booked Sukhbir, former minister Bikram Singh Majithia and other party leaders in a criminal case on charges of blocking the Harike bridge and obstructing traffic in protest against the Congress government after some party candidates were prevented from filing their nomination papers in the civic body polls. The Akalis had also blocked the roads at Beas, Phillaur, Balongi, Sirhind, Sangrur, Sunam, Mansa, Ludhiana, Rampura Phul, Bhikhi and Pathankot in the state. A case under sections 341 (wrongful restraint), 283 (causing danger or obstruction in public way), 431 (damage to roads and bridges), 188, 148 of the Indian Penal Code and section 8-B of the National Highway Act, 1956 has been registered at Makhu police station for blockade at Bangaliwala Pul, near Harrike. They said that Ludhiana police had filed chargesheet against the Akali Dal leaders, including MLAs Sharanjit Singh Dhillon and Manpreet Singh Ayali besides Mahesh Inder Singh Grewal, former minister Hira Singh Gabria and others in a Ludhiana court on September 9 this year for the blockade of national highways. Also, SBS Nagar police had filed a chargesheet against Akali Dal MLA from Banga Sukhwinder Sukhi and others on September 13 this year. “The Pathankot police had also filed a challan against the Akali Dal leaders, including former minister Desh Raj Dhugha, in the case in the same matter. Interestingly, the Kapurthala police filed closure report in the case which was registered against former Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee president Jagir Kaur at the Dhilwan police station for blocking the national highway. The report was accepted by the Kapurthala court,” the activists said. 
15-12-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab polls 2022: Malwa’s power centre Bathinda set for keen contest||Bathinda district has six assembly constituencies, the highest in the seven districts of Malwa. Five segments are part of the Bathinda Lok Sabha seat, while Rampura Phul is part of Faridkot parliamentary constituency. The district, considered the power centre of south Punjab, was among the key places from where the Aam Aadmi Party had performed best in 2017 as three of its candidates won from Talwandi Sabo, Maur and Bathinda Rural. Later, however, AAP legislators Jagdev Kamalu and Rupinder Kaur Ruby switched sides to join the Congress. With the Shiromani Akali Dal pulling out all stops to regain its predominantly rural stronghold, 2022 is going to be a keen contest. Bathinda Urban: Cong hopes to buck anti-incumbencyRepresented by Punjab finance minister Manpreet Singh Badal, Bathinda Urban is one of the most-watched assembly contests. The constituency has given Punjab two finance ministers in Surinder Singla (2002) and Manpreet Singh Badal (2017). The urban seat with a sizeable number of government employees has become a hub of protests with them targeting the minister for the lack of will to hike their financial benefits. The closure of Punjab’s oldest thermal power plant, the poor stormwater management and delay in relocating the city’s bus stand are issues that matter. Since the first assembly elections in 1957, the Congress got the mandate on seven occasions and the incumbent MLA relies heavily on the political management by his brother-in-law, Jaijeet Singh Johal, alias Jojo. For the first time, the Congress won the Bathinda municipal corporation elections this year and hopes to improve its performance in 2022. Bathinda has an interesting trend though, of not electing an MLA for the second time since 1985. Bathinda Rural: A SAD fortress breached by AAP This rural segment was earlier called Pakka Kalan and the Shiromani Akali Dal held sway till the last elections when political novice Rupinder Kaur Ruby of the Aam Aadmi Party won by a handsome margin. But last month, the low-profile MLA quit the AAP to join the Congress after Charanjit Singh Channi assumed charge as chief minister. She is now keen to contest from Malout (reserved) seat in Muktsar district. The SAD has fielded former MLA Parkash Singh Bhatti from here. A turncoat, Bhatti was elected from Balluana in Fazilka as a Congress candidate in 2002 and he contested as the Akali candidate in 2017 but lost. Congress leader Harvinder Singh Laddi, who finished third in the last election is again staking claim for the seat. He has been a vocal opponent of his friend-turned-foe Manpreet Singh Badal, the state finance minister. Poor irrigation facilities and the underdeveloped industrial area are key poll issues. The Bathinda cantonment with an estimated 9,000 voters is a part of this segment. Talwandi Sabo: Face-off between veterans & young gunsTalwandi Sabo, which is home to one of the five temporal seats of Sikhism, Takht Damdama Sahib, has been represented by Jeet Mohinder Sidhu four times. In 2002, he won as an Independent and twice as the Congress candidate. He switched loyalty to the SAD in 2014 and in the bypoll in the same year, he won by over 40,000 votes. In 2017, he suffered a humiliating defeat from Baljinder Kaur of the Aam Aadmi Party. This time too, Sidhu is the Akali nominee from the rural constituency and faces Baljinder Kaur. The Congress faces an internal feud between Khuzhbaz Jattana, who lost the last elections, and party veteran Harminder Singh Jassi. A relative of jailed Dera Sacha Sauda chief Gurmeet Ram Rahim Singh, Jassi won the seat twice. The segment has dera followers in different villages who Jassi has pinned hopes on. Among key issues being raised by the voters are an upgrade to the five-bed civil hospital and construction of a railway overbridge.Rampura Phul: A game of ping pong between SAD, CongA constituent of Faridkot Lok Sabha seat, this rural constituency has seen a direct poll battle between two local stalwarts. In the last four elections since 2002, veteran Akali leader Sikander Singh Maluka and Gurpreet Singh Kangar of the Congress have taken turns to retain the seat. This time, the SAD faced dissidence when Maluka was denied the ticket from Maur segment in Bathinda. Maluka wanted his son Gurpreet Maluka to be fielded from Rampura Phul but party chief Sukhbir Singh Badal rejected the demand. Kangar, who was removed from the state cabinet after Capt Amarinder Singh resigned as CM in September, is lobbying to retain the Congress ticket, whereas the AAP has fielded Punjabi singer Balkar Singh Sidhu. Amarinder’s ancestral village of Mehraj falls in this segment. Poor quality drinking water and the absence of a proper sewage system in nagar panchayats are common complaints here. Bhucho Mandi: A haven for parachute candidates, so farFormerly called Nathana assembly segment, Bhucho Mandi is a predominantly rural seat. In the last election, Pritam Singh Kotbhai of the Congress had defeated AAP’s novice candidate Jagsir Singh by a narrow margin of 645 votes.However, the tenure of this first-time legislator, who is a moneybag from Muktsar district, was mired in controversies. He faced criminal cases in chit fund scams in Madhya Pradesh and Uttarakhand.Fielding outsiders, the Congress has been retaining the seat for the last three polls. However, the locals are now increasingly voicing their concern about feeling “unrepresented” by parachute candidates.Meanwhile, residents in the rural belt, including Lehra Mohabbat and Nathana, have been demanding to revert from nagar panchayat to gram panchayats. They complain of exorbitant taxes being charged by the urban local body for various utility services and a plethora of permissions before undertaking any work.The seat has a considerable number of followers of Dera Sacha Sauda and could impact the results if they go for a collective decision.Maur: Akali stronghold where blast wounds still fester The entry of SAD leader and former MP Jagmeet Singh Brar has made the electoral contest at Maur interesting. A turncoat, Brar, is contesting for the first time from Bathinda district. The rural segment is a traditional Akali stronghold since 1997. However, in 2017, Aam Aadmi Party’s Jagdev Kamalu won it by defeating SAD’s heavyweight Janmeja Singh Sekhon by over 14,000 votes. Kamalu, who rebelled in 2019 along with former Bholath MLA Sukhpal Singh Khaira, joined the Congress in June this year, hoping to get the party ticket, which has several claimants with veteran Harminder Singh Jassi not keen to contest this time. Four days before the February 4, 2017, assembly elections, Jassi had a narrow escape in twin blasts that left seven people, including five children, dead. The incident is a major issue this time as the police have failed to make any headway in the case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-polls-2022-malwa-s-power-centre-bathinda-set-for-keen-contest-101639512482340.html
15-12-2021||Chandigarh||Recording wife’s telephonic conversation secretly invasion of her privacy: High court||The Punjab and Haryana high court has said that recording telephonic conversations of a woman by her husband without her knowledge amounts to infringement of her right to privacy. The bench of Justice Lisa Gill said that it cannot be ascertained as in which circumstances the conversations were held. “…these conversations would necessarily have been recorded surreptitiously by one of the parties,” the bench observed. The court was hearing a plea filed by a Punjab-based woman challenging a January 2020 order of a family court in Bathinda allowing the estranged husband to prove that a CD pertaining to a conversation between him and her was “subject to the condition of its correctness”. Their marriage took place in 2009 and they had a daughter two years later. The man had sought divorce in 2017 after their relationship soured. In 2019, the husband filed an application pleading that that a CD and transcriptions of recorded conversations be taken on record. This was allowed by the family court but the woman challenged it in the high court. She argued that the evidence submitted was wrongly accepted, as it would amount to invasion of her privacy, as the conversations had been recorded without her knowledge and consent. The man had claimed that in the divorce plea that his wife used to treat him in a cruel manner. The conversations so recorded are only an attempt to prove the same, it was argued. The high court while quashing the Bathinda court’s order observed that the acceptance of such recording would be a violation of the woman’s fundamental rights.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/recording-wife-s-telephonic-conversation-secretly-invasion-of-her-privacy-high-court-101639512362452.html
15-12-2021||Chandigarh||Light snow, showers likely in Jammu and Kashmir today||Light snow and rains are expected to hit Kashmir valley, starting Tuesday night, as clouds have started to gather over the region.The Jammu and Kashmir meteorological (MeT) department said that sky will remain partly cloudy on Wednesday and there were 50% chances of light snowfall.“There’s also a possibility of light to moderate snow over north and north-west of Kashmir, mainly over higher reaches and very light rain/snow at scattered places in plains of Kashmir later tonight,” said director J&K MeT, Sonam Lotus.He said there is no forecast of any major rain or snow till December 23. “There is no forecast of any severe weather conditions in the coming days,” he said.The harsh 40-day winter period of the Kashmir valley - Chillai Kalan - starts from December 21. All the weather stations in Kashmir again witnessed sub-zero temperatures last night with Srinagar recording -2.6 °C. Nights continued to record sub-zero temperatures in Kashmir for the 10th day on Tuesday with the mercury plunging to - 5.6 °C in the ski resort of Gulmarg in north Kashmir. In south Kashmir, the mountain resort of Pahalgam recorded a night temperature of 2.8 °C. It was -4.5 °C in Konibal, - 3.5 °C in Kupwara, and -2.6 °C in Qazigund. Lotus said that below-zero temperatures in Valley was a normal winter issue.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/light-snow-showers-likely-in-jammu-and-kashmir-today-101639512302981.html
15-12-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab: HC quashes recruitment process of pre-primary school teachers||The Punjab and Haryana high court has quashed the recruitment process initiated by the Punjab government to fill 8,393 posts of pre-primary school teachers in the state’s primary schools. These are the posts against which over 10,000 teachers working in the state are demanding their absorption and have been staging dharnas across the state. The posts were advertised in November 2020, but the advertisement was withdrawn earlier this year and a fresh recruitment process was initiated with a change in criterion. The fee submitted pursuant to the 2020 advertisement was to be reversed. The criterion adopted by the Punjab government to fill these posts was challenged by some candidates. Last month, acting on the plea, the high court had stayed the recruitment exam. The petitioners had alleged that the criterion has been made under the pressure of teachers’ unions with 13,000 members, who are already working in the state and appointed previously without adopting rules for public appointments. The basic qualification was a diploma for the posts in question. But the criterion was changed and three-year experience as education provider was made necessary, apart from academic and professional qualification, leaving thousands, otherwise eligible, in the lurch. With this criterion, 75% candidates to be selected ought to be from these 13,000 teachers, one of the petitioner’s lawyer, Vikas Chatrath said.The high court bench of justice GS Sandhawalia and justice Vikas Suri said that employees for whom reservation has been provided to the extent of 100% had failed to get the benefit of regularisation earlier and now the state proposes to absorb most of them by reserving the source of this recruitment. “This action of the State is totally arbitrary and in direct conflict with the constitutional mandate laid down under Articles 14 and 16 of the Constitution of India, wherein the right of public employment and equality has been enshrined. Accordingly, it is held that it is not permissible for the State to have 100% reservation for a certain category of persons,” the bench recorded.The court said that the state can fill up the posts of pre-primary school teachers under the Group-C Service Rules, 2020, by only allowing 50% reservation of the 8,393 posts, to give the benefit to the education volunteers, etc. The balance 50% would have to be left out to the other categories, for consideration, it said, while quashing the advertisement with a direction to the state to issue a fresh advertisement, taking into consideration this judgment.“… restricting the source of recruitment to a particular group of persons who had joined service as a stop gap arrangement at local/village level would deny the other persons an opportunity to apply, which would be violative of the equality of opportunity regarding the employment or appointment,” the court added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-hc-quashes-recruitment-process-of-pre-primary-school-teachers-101639511942156.html
15-12-2021||Chandigarh||Jujhda Punjab: Punjabi actors, social activists join hands to highlight key issues||A number of Punjabi actors, intellectuals and journalists have joined hands to form “Jujdha Punjab”, which they call a common platform to highlight various issues the state is struggling with and work for a better future of its citizens. Addressing the media in Chandigarh on Tuesday, Punjabi actors Amitoj Mann, Babbu Mann, Gul Panag, Ranjit Bawa, Jass Bajwa and agriculture expert Devinder Sharma said the “manch” is the outcome of the farmer’s agitation, “which has brought a positive thought among the people of Punjab and has given us the right direction”. “We have come up with a 32-point agenda covering all major issues of Punjab. If any political party agrees to our agenda, we will support it, but will not become its part,” said Punjabi singer and actor Babbu Mann said.Amitoj Mann, a Punjab actor and director, said: “Punjab is passing through a bad phase. The main motive of political parties is to loot the state by any means. Today, the youth of Punjab is leaving the state and going abroad as we do not have many opportunities here.”Questioned about her affiliation to the Aam Aadmi Party, Gul Panag said: “Most of the political parties have failed to address issues of Punjab, and now since I have joined this manch, I will not have any affiliation with any political party.” The representatives of the manch appealed to the people to come forward and give suggestions on key issues.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/jujhda-punjab-punjabi-actors-social-activists-join-hands-to-highlight-key-issues-101639511888011.html
15-12-2021||Chandigarh||Drug case: Punjab CM orders FIR to probe Asthana letter leak||A day after a confidential note of Punjab Bureau of Investigation (BoI) chief SK Asthana surfaced on social media in which he had expressed himself against any legal action against Shiromani Akali Dal leader Bikram Singh Majithia in an alleged drug case, the state government announced on Tuesday to register an FIR into the leak of official communication addressed to the director general of police. “We will register an FIR to probe how the letter was leaked and who leaked it. We will thoroughly probe as to how these important files were leaked and how the officer went on leave?” said chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi, without naming Asthana who had proceeded on a two-day leave last week and excused himself from a scheduled meeting with the CM in which the 2018 Special Task Force report on politically explosive drug issue was to be discussed. The chief minister said: “Moreover, the portion of the letter which was leaked has another part too that was written by the same officer with hand. The part of the letter that has been leaked has no meaning.” On Monday, four pages of a letter that Asthana had purportedly sent to DGP Iqbal Preet Singh Sahota appeared on social media, wherein he had flagged legal hitches in booking Majithia on the basis of the STF report that is lying in sealed cover with the Punjab and Haryana high court. The embarrassing leak, shared from a foreign phone number and posted on Twitter using a handle named “Hawk Mark”, came in the wake of a stepped up pressure on the Channi government from Punjab Congress chief Navjot Singh Sidhu to take action on the drug issue ahead of the state assembly election due early next year. Asthana, according to people familiar with the developments, wrote the letter to the DGP before proceeding on an emergency medical leave amid reports of pressure on him to give nod to take action against Majithia. The police official was admitted in a private hospital in Mohali. An additional DGP rank officer, Asthana was brought in by the Channi government as the BoI chief a couple of weeks back. He was the third officer to get this posting in barely one month. Leak left govt red-facedChanni’s announcement about registering the case came as the leak left the Punjab government red-faced as it was preparing to take action in the political sensitive drug cases on the basis of the STF report. “This leak must be by those big fish of the drug trade who are afraid of action in these cases. These people are threatening our officers as well. But our police is very brave,” said Channi, without taking names. “These people have moved the high court as well. The court has asked that fellow as who you are in this case. If they are so clear, why they have moved the court,” said Channi, alluding a petition moved by Majithia in the high court seeking to be heard in the case that he alleged was being used by his political opponents to tarnish his image. Asthana had sought clarity if it would be legally tenable to act upon the report of the STF head when the same lies sealed in custody of the high court. Also, despite the Punjab advocate general’s request to the high court to return it, the report has not been returned to date, he had pointed. Meanwhile, the Punjab government has started the hunt for new officer to replace Asthana as the BoI chief. 
15-12-2021||Chandigarh||SAD-BSP alliance will form next government in Punjab: Mayawati||Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) chief Mayawati has claimed that the Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD)-BSP alliance will form a majority government in Punjab under the leadership of SAD president Sukhbir Singh Badal. She also said the Congress and other political parties will be wiped out in the Punjab assembly election due early next year. Addressing a press conference at her residence in Lucknow on Tuesday, the BSP supremo said: “In 1996 general election, the SAD-BSP alliance had bagged 11 out of the 13 Lok Sabha seats in Punjab. The Congress was wiped out in the election. In the coming assembly election, the history will repeat itself and the Congress and other rival parties will meet the same fate.” Mayawati also extended wishes to SAD leadership on completing 100 years. “There are a few parties in the country that have served the people for 100 years. Akali Dal is one of the oldest regional parties in the country that is fighting for the welfare and rights of the people of Punjab,” she said. The BSP president said the party has a strong bond with the people of Punjab for decades. “Punjab is the birthplace of BSP founder Kanshi Ram. He launched a movement to uplift the weaker sections in society in Punjab. The BSP cadre is working hard to fulfil his dreams,” she said, adding that Kanshi Ram was on good terms with former Punjab CM Parkash Singh Badal.BSP national general secretary Satish Chandra Mishra is on a three-day visit to poll-bound Punjab. He participated in the foundation day programme of the SAD at Moga and discussed the assembly election campaign strategy with Badals.On Wednesday, Mishra will hold a meeting with BSP office-bearers and workers in Chandigarh. Later, he will attend a meeting of BSP-SAD candidates for the 2022 assembly election and other leaders.The SAD forged an alliance with the BSP in June for next year’s Punjab assembly polls. According to the seat-sharing arrangement, the BSP will field candidates in 20 of the 117 assembly seats in the state while the rest will be contested by the SAD.
15-12-2021||Chandigarh||SAD marks 100 years, calls for joint front of regional parties to strengthen federalism||On its centennial commemoration day on Tuesday, the Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) called for the formation of a joint front of regional parties to espouse the cause of federalism nationally. At a well-attended party rally in the run-up to the Punjab assembly elections due early next year, the Akali leadership also revived the party’s commitment to work on the Anandpur Sahib Resolution to achieve greater autonomy to states. Addressing the gathering, SAD patriarch and former five-time chief minister Parkash Singh Badal said the 101-year-old party has a rich history to fight to protect the rights of the Sikhs and peasantry, adding that the Akali Dal was the first party to raise the voice of federalism. “Now all regional parties are also calling for strengthening federal rights. If federal rights of states are secure, then unpopular laws cannot be implemented without approval of the states. We are committing to strengthen federal nature of the country,” he declared, adding, “It is time to recall the contributions and sacrifices made by Akalis for the ‘quom’ and Punjab.” Populist pitch Making a poll pitch, SAD chief Sukhbir Singh Badal promised ₹50,000 per acre compensation for crop damage, restoration of old pension scheme for government employees and free power for all religious places if the SAD-BSP alliance comes to power in Punjab next year. “From holding ‘chabian da morcha’, a campaign for the recovery of the keys of the Sri Harmandir Sahib treasury in the early 1920s to the national Emergency and the recent farmers’ agitation, Akalis have always fought from the front. There is no other political front in the country that could match sacrifices made by the Akalis,” he said. Sukhbir said even after 55 years of its bifurcation, Punjab is still deprived of its right to get back Punjabi-speaking areas from Haryana. “Akalis spearheaded the movement of Punjabi Suba to meet aspirations of Punjabis. Respective central governments crushed the federal spirit but the party is committed to fight it back,” he added. Badal Sr equates Cong with Mughals Badal exuded confidence that in the coming assembly elections, the SAD-BSP alliance would repeat the 1996 performance. “In 1996, BSP supremo Kanshi Ram and Akalis fought Lok Sabha elections together and won 11 out of 13 seats in Punjab. The alliance will perform again. But we will have to fight against Congress government of Punjab, BJP-led Centre and the Aam Aadmi Party to protect interests of Punjabis,” he said. Badal urged voters to elect the next government wisely to protect the future of the next generation, while equating the Congress with the British and Mughals. “It is the time to ensure that political power remains Punjab-centric and with those understanding the aspirations of Punjabis,” he said. Without disclosing his electoral plans for the forthcoming elections, Badal said he would abide by the role granted by the party. Speaking on the occasion, BSP general secretary Satish Mishra said the alliance was set to sweep the forthcoming polls by securing 100 seats. He also lashed out at other rival parties, including the Congress and the AAP. Prominent among those present were former Union minister Harsimrat Kaur Badal, Rajya Sabha MP Naresh Gujral, and SGPC president Harjinder Singh Dhami.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/sad-calls-for-joint-front-of-regional-parties-to-strengthen-federalism-101639511884173.html
15-12-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab polls 2022: AAP supremo Kejriwal on two-day Punjab tour||Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) national convener and Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal will start his two-day tour of Punjab on Wednesday with a Tiranga Yatra in Jalandhar. AAP state unit president and MP Bhagwant Mann invited people to join the march. On December 16, Kejriwal will address a public meeting at Khudian village of Lambi assembly constituency. Former CM Parkash Singh Badal represents the segment in the state assembly. Cong’s Bathinda Rural working president resigns Newly appointed Bathinda Rural Congress working president Avtar Singh Goniana resigned on Tuesday in protest against the appointment of Kulwinder Singh Naruana as the unit’s president. Both appointments were made on Monday. Goniana said Naruana’s appointment was unjustified and he could not work under his leadership. He said he has sent his resignation to Punjab Congress president Navjot Sidhu.KMSC culminates Fateh march at Golden TempleFarmers owing allegiance to Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Committee (KMSC) concluded their “Fateh March” (victory march) at the Golden Temple on Tuesday. Led by KMSC president Satnam Singh Pannu, the march commenced at Delhi’s Singhu border after the Centre met all demands of the agitating farmers. The march stopped at various points on the way to Amritsar, where it was accorded a warm welcome by the locals. Drug smuggling gang busted in Phagwara An inter-district gang of drug smugglers has been busted with the arrest of six men, the Kapurthala police said on Tuesday. The accused, identified as Lakhwinder Singh, Harwinder Singh, Sarabjit Singh, Barinder Singh, Amanpreet Singh and Sahil, were arrested during a raid at a house in Phagwara on Monday. Police also recovered 330 grams of heroin, 400 grams of opium, ₹2.1 lakh drug money and one pistol from their possession.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-polls-2022-aap-supremo-kejriwal-on-two-day-punjab-tour-101639511882187.html
15-12-2021||Other||Man kidnaps 8-year-old boy in Gurugram, gets caught within hours||An eight-year-old boy, who was allegedly kidnapped from outside his school in DLF Phase 3 on Monday morning, was rescued from Chakkarpur within hours, police said. A 22-year-old man was arrested for kidnapping the class 1 student, they said. According to police, the suspect, Varun Singh, a native of Hardoi in Uttar Pradesh, was known to the boy’s father, Mohammad Idris Ali, a medical practitioner. The suspect was earlier Ali’s neighbour and would often visit his house, police said, adding that he planned the kidnapping after he lost ₹3 lakh in gambling and bookies started pressuring him to repay the amount. The victim’s father said that his son and daughter go to school every day with their grandfather. “On Monday, they left home around 8.15am. After 20 minutes, I received a call from the school asking for my Aadhaar card and my son’s photograph. I was about to leave when the school authorities again called to inform me that someone kidnapped my son from outside the gate,” he said, adding that the school is just a five-minute walk from his house. Ali filed a complaint at DLF Phase 3 police station, following which a team from the police station reached the spot and started investigation, police said. Meanwhile, the suspect called the father and asked him to arrange ₹3 lakh and wait for his next call, police said. Manoj Kumar, station house officer of DLF Phase 3 police station, said that the suspect had thought of kidnapping a minor from a posh locality but later changed his plan as he would have needed the help of more people to pull it off. “He finally decided to kidnap the child of a family known to him that was also doing well financially,” the SHO said. Police said the suspect had followed the boy last week to know the school timings. On Monday, as soon as the grandfather dropped the boy and his sister, the suspect told the boy that he had a surprise for him and lured him with chocolates. Kumar said the suspect took the class 1 student to his rented room in Chakkarpur and locked him inside. KK Rao, commissioner of police, formed a team led by the area SHO to rescue the boy. “Teams from Cyber police station were also roped in and by afternoon, the location of the caller was identified. Police raided the suspect’s rented accommodation and arrested him from the spot,” Rao said. The boy was rescued unhurt and handed over to the family members on Monday night, police said. 
15-12-2021||Chandigarh||Our mission is to form next govt in Punjab: Capt Amarinder||Punjab Lok Congress chief and former chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh on Tuesday said that their party’s mission was not just to defeat the Congress but to form the next government in the state. Addressing the party workers while inducting two-time former MP Amrik Singh Aliwal and four ex-MLAs into his newly formed outfit, Amarinder said he was overwhelmed by the response from across the state. “Several sitting and former legislators from the Congress, Aam Aadmi Party and Shiromani Akali Dal would be joining our party very soon,” he said. Besides Aliwal, former legislators Harjinder Singh Thekedar, Prem Mittal, Farzana Alam and Rajwinder Kaur Bhagike, ex-district Congress committee presidents Jagmohan Sharma and Satvir Singh Palli Jhikki, Punjab Arthiya Association president Vijay Kalra and Patiala mayor Sanjeev Bittu were among those who joined the party. In the evening, Kalra surfaced at a press conference held by chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi who said that he (Kalra) would remain with the Congress. Amarinder said that Punjab was under a massive debt of about ₹5 lakh crore, which was about 70% of the total gross domestic product (GDP) of the state. “This would take generations to repay and the corrective measures are needed to be taken immediately,” he added, wondering from where chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi was going to get the money for his populist announcements. “Probably he knows that the Congress is not going to come back and let the next government bear the brunt.” He also warned police officials against intimidating his party workers at the behest of some local Congress leaders, saying he would take all necessary measures to come down heavily on such “hooligans” in uniform. Amarinder was reacting to reports of cops stopping their party workers who were putting up posters in the Malwa region.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/our-mission-is-to-form-next-govt-in-punjab-capt-amarinder-101639511642219.html
15-12-2021||Mumbai||Eight new Omicron cases in state take tally to 28||MUMBAI: Maharashtra on Tuesday reported eight new cases of the heavily-mutated Omicron variant of Covid-19, taking the state’s tally to 28. Seven of the new cases are from Mumbai and one is from Vasai-Virar on the outskirts of the city. While the state health department said none of them had a history of foreign travel as per preliminary information, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) confirmed that one of the infected persons had travelled to London recently. The remaining seven are the UK-returned person’s co-workers and, therefore, were high-risk contacts. Suresh Kakani, additional municipal commissioner, and officer-in-charge of the city’s public health department said that the infected person had returned to Mumbai in the first week of December. BMC said he did an RT-PCR test after he developed mild symptoms of Covid-19. “The patient’s samples were sent for genome sequencing, and high-risk contacts were traced,” Kakani said. Their samples were sent for genome sequencing to Pune’s National Institute of Virology, according to the BMC. A BMC statement said that the patient had mild symptoms, and a follow-up RT-PCR test is due on Wednesday (today). The patient’s condition is stable. According a report issued by the state government, Mumbai now has the most number of Omicron cases in the state with 12, followed by Pimpri-Chinchwad (10), Pune (2) and one each in Kalyan-Dombivli, Nagpur, Latur and Vasai-Virar. So far, nine Omicron patients have tested negative for Covid-19 and have been discharged. Of the eight new infected persons, three are women and five are male, aged between 24 and 41, the state health department said on Tuesday. Three of the patients are asymptomatic while five have mild symptoms. “According to preliminary information, none of them have a history of international travel,” the state health department report said, contradicting the BMC. “One of the patients travelled to Bangalore while the other had travelled to Delhi. One person detected in Mumbai is from Rajasthan. Out of these eight patients, two are in hospital and six are at home isolation. The close contacts of these patients are being tracked. Out of these, seven patients have been vaccinated and one has not been vaccinated.” To be sure, between December 1 and the morning of December 14, 91,320 passengers, including 13,615 from at-risk nations, arrived at the international airports in Mumbai, Pune and Nagpur. Through surveillance at the airports, the administration has detected 38 Covid-19 positive cases, including 30 from at-risk countries and eight from other countries. Additionally, field surveillance of all international passengers that arrived since November 1 is underway, according to state officials. Through airport and field surveillance, 430 samples were sent for genomic sequencing, and the results of 21 are awaited, the health department said. Dr Shashank Joshi, member of Maharashtra’s Covid-19 Task Force, said, “The number of Omicron cases is still small. The cases are sporadic and not in big clusters, so there is no need to panic at the moment. We have to focus on aggressive contact tracing, and strictly follow Covid-19 appropriate behaviour. There should be an emphasis on well-ventilated spaces. People should avoid closed spaces as much as possible.” Mumbai-based infectious disease expert Dr Om Srivastava said that all the Omicron patients have had mild symptoms and have recovered on their own without any intervention. “We simply have to be watchful,” he said. On Tuesday, Maharashtra added 684 fresh Covid-19 cases, taking its tally to 6,645,136. It also reported 24 fatalities due to Covid-19, pushing the death toll to 141,288. The active cases in the state stood at 6,481. Mumbai added 217 new Covid cases and one death, taking its tally to 765,659 and death toll to 16,360. Meanwhile, in a bid to ramp up the vaccination drive in Mumbai, the BMC has decided to extend the timing of civic inoculation centres to 10pm from the present 5pm. Kakani said, “We will be extending the duration so that more people can walk in and get their doses at the earliest.” According to BMC, 80% of the city’s population is fully vaccinated and due to rising Omicron variant concerns, the civic body aims to fully vaccinate the city’s eligible population at the earliest. It added that on Tuesday 60,370 beneficiaries took their doses in Mumbai.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/eight-new-omicron-cases-in-state-take-tally-to-28-101639511522150.html
15-12-2021||Other||BJP poll campaign to be aggressive: Shekhawat||Ludhiana Holding by its own admission, a mega event after nearly two years, the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) plans to make up for lost time in an aggressive manner of campaigning for the Punjab assembly polls. Union minister and election in-charge for the state, Gajendra Singh Shekhawat, gave the slogan of “Nava Punjab BJP De Nal” during a party convention in the city on Tuesday. The event saw sizable participation of workers from across the state. The party has planned 20 social welfare programmes in each assembly constituency across the state to mark the 400th birth anniversary of the ninth Sikh master Guru Tegh Bahadur. While hailing the grit and determination of farmers for making the country food surplus and the youth for securing the borders of the state, Shekhawat said that it was after nearly two years that BJP could hold a mega event.“Covid hit our party activities; later, the farm agitation hampered events and conferences. We have to start our journey afresh. We need to shun our mutual differences,” said Shekhawat, hinting at differences among the state level leaders.“Punjab, which was number 4, till recently now stands at number 16 in GDP growth and has a debt of over ₹4 lakh crore. Successive governments have never bothered to create a road map for recovery,” he added. Declaring that BJP will contest on 117 seats, Shekhawat added that the party was open for alliance with like-minded entities. Former IAS officer SR Ladhar, who had set up the Kirti Kisan Sher-e-Punjab Party, merged his political outfit with the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) in the presence of Shekhawat. Another Dalit face, former Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) MLA Mohan Lal Banga, who had joined the BSP and then gone on to join the Congress in 2019, also entered the saffron fold. Former IPS officer Ashok Bath also joined the party.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/bjp-poll-campaign-to-be-aggressive-shekhawat-101639511463834.html
15-12-2021||Chandigarh||Pargat Singh releases vision document to resolve issues of non-resident Punjabis||Punjab NRIs affairs minister Pargat Singh on Tuesday released a vision document and announced some initiatives to resolve issues relating to non-resident Punjabis. Unveiling the document at a press conference in Chandigarh, Pargat said the state government was fully committed to address issues of NRIs pertaining to their properties, financials aspects through an efficient mechanism, which would foster sense of safety and security among them. Commending their role in the overall development of Punjab, the minister said that every possible effort would be made by the state government to enhance connect of young generations of non-resident Punjabis with the state. Pargat said that enhancing the tourism facilities, besides motivating them to visit India, Punjab in particular, as tourists was also another goal of the state government. He also stated that cultural exchange programmes and summer courses would also be initiated at school and university levels. The NRIs from the state would be facilitated for setting up business in Punjab by providing the ease of doing business and requisite incentives along with single-window system, he said. A financial and commercial activities-related wing would be set up in the NRI commission or a separate body would be created wherein all such issues will be resolved, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/pargat-singh-releases-vision-document-to-resolve-issues-of-non-resident-punjabis-101639511461935.html
15-12-2021||Other||Gurugram civic body to inspect bulk waste generators by Dec 30||The Municipal Corporation of Gurugram (MCG) will inspect all 1,900 bulk waste generators in the city within the next 15 days to check the compliance to the waste management rules, said officials on Tuesday. Any residential or commercial building that produces more than 50kg waste every day is considered a bulk waste generator (BWG), the officials said. The decision to survey all BWGs was taken during the MCG’s citizen monitoring committee meeting held at the civic body’s Sector 34 office on Tuesday. During the meeting, seven teams of sanitation wing officials were constituted for the purpose. Additional municipal commissioner Dr Vaishali Sharma directed the officials concerned to ensure the inspection is completed by December 30.“The teams will have to check the compliance to the parameters prescribed under the Solid Waste Management Rules, 2016 at all the bulk waste generators. If the rules are not being followed anywhere, then they will take action against them as per the rules. It is mandatory for BWGs to dispose of the waste at their own level by converting it into compost, sending recyclable items to empanelled recyclers, and getting the remaining waste collected from the MCG,” said Sharma who chaired the meeting.Sharma further said that in the meeting it was also decided that agencies empanelled for providing technical assistance to BWGs should also be examined during the survey, and action should be taken against those found to be inactive as per the rules.In July, the MCG had empanelled 12 agencies for providing technical support to BWGs and assisting them with setting up in-house compost units.If a BWG is a condominium, it asks its residents of each household to segregate waste into dry and wet waste. Wet waste such as vegetables peels and egg shells is then transported to an in-house composting unit and converted to compost which can then be used as natural fertilisers. According to the officials, 331 BWGs have been fined so far this year for violating waste management rules. These included 15 in MCG’s zone 1 area, 61 in zone 2, 128 in zone 3, and 127 in zone 4. A first-time violation by a BWG carries a penalty of ₹1 lakh while subsequent violation carries a ₹5 lakh fine, said the MCG officials.The MCG’s citizen monitoring committee was formed in February 2018 to oversee solid waste management in the city. Besides MCG officials, the committee has four members who are residents of the city. 
15-12-2021||Chandigarh||Srinagar bus attack: Another cop succumbs to injuries, toll reaches 3||Another cop who was injured in the attack at Pantha Chowk in Srinagar on Monday evening succumbed to his injuries on Tuesday, taking the toll of cops to three.Fourteen policemen were injured when a group of militants, belonging to Jaish-e-Mohammed (JeM), targeted the police bus which was on way to the battalion headquarters on Monday evening. Two policemen, including an assistant sub inspector, died in the hospital yesterday.Inspector general of police, Kashmir Range, Vijay Kumar said the militants had come with a plan to snatch the rifles, however, the policemen foiled the attempt.“Three militants of Jaish, including two foreign militants, were responsible for the attack. One of the militant was injured in police retaliation as there were blood spots in the area. The attackers escaped towards Pampore and Tral and we will soon neutralise the militants responsible for the attack,” Kumar told reporters on the sidelines of the wreath laying ceremony in Srinagar.Kumar said 25 cops were present in the bus at the time of the attack. “The militants attacked the police bus when the Road Opening Party (RoP) had already withdrawn from the area and militants took advantage of darkness. We are taking preventive measures. The RoP duties will be extended and bullet proof vehicle will be placed there,” he said.IG Kumar said that it was a pre-planned attack and militants seem to have conducted a proper recce before the attack.This was the second major terror attack in the Valley after a string of targeted civilian killings. Security around forces’ installations have been further beefed after the attack. On Saturday, militants killed two policemen in north Kashmir’s Bandipora market when they attacked a police party at Gulshan market. Police said also a foreign militant was involved in the attack.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/srinagar-bus-attack-another-cop-succumbs-to-injuries-toll-reaches-3-101639511222180.html
15-12-2021||Mumbai||Omicron effect: Schools reluctant to begin offline classes||MUMBAI: The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) on Tuesday released a circular confirming that school managements should start physical batches for their students starting on Wednesday. Thane Municipal Corporation, Navi Mumbai Municipal Corporation and Thane Zilla Parishad, which includes rural parts of Thane district, also announced that schools within their jurisdiction will reopen offline for Classes 1 to 7 on Wednesday.This decision, however, was not received well by schools across Mumbai and the Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR) with many worried about handling more students on campus at a time when the country is witnessing rising cases of the Omicron variant of Covid-19. On Tuesday, Maharashtra reported eight new Omicron cases taking the state’s tally to 28. All eight patients reported on Tuesday had no history of international travel, unlike the previous 20.“Hybrid classes are easier with smaller batch strength, but balancing physical and virtual classrooms becomes difficult,” a principal of an ICSE school said, wishing to remain anonymous. “Unlike older children who can be told to follow rules, young children simultaneously in physical and virtual classrooms will be tough to handle,” she added.Rupa Roy, principal of Balmohan Vidyamandir in Dadar said the school has begun prepping for physical classes for grades 1 to 7, but are awaiting consent forms from parents before starting hybrid classes. “For the time being, classes for lower grades will run online only and once our work is done and we have enough numbers through consent forms, we will start physical classes,” she said.A handful of state board schools, however, plan to start physical classes for Classes 5 to 7 by gauging how many students show up over the next few days.Some schools reached out to parents, and many decided to continue with online classes for the time being. “Parents share the same concern as us—safety of children, especially the younger ones,” said Jose Kurien, regional director (western zone II), DAV Public Schools. “It’ll be impossible to maintain Covid protocols on campus without being strict with the students, but that will be unfair to the children. We’d rather continue the online classes for the time being and focus on hybrid classes for the older students.”In the last week of November, the state cabinet decided to reopen schools in the physical mode for Classes 1 to 4 in rural areas and Classes 1 to 7 in urban areas starting December 1, while the older classes had already been following the hybrid model since October 4. This move was delayed by two weeks by BMC taking into account rising Omicron cases in the state.“Reopening schools means starting school buses for students. This poses a new problem, as there is no way to ensure Covid protocols are followed within the bus. We’ve spoken to parents and a majority of them are comfortable with continuing classes in the online mode,” said Rohan Bhatt, chairman, Children’s Academy group of schools.On November 30, the Association of ICSE Schools in Maharashtra had released a statement clarifying that most ICSE schools in the city will remain busy until December 16 with the first semester exams and can take a call on reopening for younger students only after December 21.“As per the government notification, maintaining six-feet social distance in classrooms means schools need to make arrangements but for the time being, teachers too are busy with invigilation duty for board exams. We therefore request the government to allow ICSE schools to take a call and reopen schools either on December 21, or post-Christmas holidays in January 2022,” said a statement signed by Perin Bagli, secretary of the association.Some parent-teacher associations objected to BMC’s new circular. “Teachers are already struggling with hybrid classes for the older batches and without consulting schools and teachers, the government has now decided to bring more students back to school. At present, everyone is concerned about rising Omicron cases and instead of rethinking its decision the government is forcing this move on everyone. Sadly, not once did the government consult parents or schools before announcing the move,” said Arundhati Chavan, president of Parent-Teachers Association United Forum.“College students are allowed to attend classes only if they are vaccinated, but school students are not vaccinated, despite which there is eagerness among authorities to reopen schools. Is the government or school management ready to take responsibility of the students’ health,” said Anubha Sahai, president, India Wide Parents Association.Keeping in mind the government order, some schools have taken steps to start classes for students from standard 6 and 7. BK Birla Public School, Kalyan, said it has made all necessary preparations to reopen for Classes 6 and 7 on Wednesday. “We will gradually reopen for the rest of the school,” a member of the school management said.Ranjana Jangra, principal, BK Birla Public School, said, “We are prepared to start classes in the hybrid mode as more than 50% of parents have given consent.” Kalyan Dombivli Municipal Corporation has asked all schools within its jurisdiction to reopen for Classes 1 to 7 from Thursday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/omicron-effect-schools-reluctant-to-begin-offline-classes-101639511162017.html
15-12-2021||Other||Gurugram: Property owners in Manesar village asked to remove encroachments||The department of town and country planning (DTCP) on Tuesday asked the owners of properties along the 750-metre stretch of Manesar village road to remove encroachments or else the department will launch a demolition drive. DTCP officials said that they will demarcate the government land, which has been encroached, to identify the illegal constructions so that property owners can remove such structures themselves. The property owners have been asked to remove the illegal structures in the next 15 days, the officials said.Notices to the violators were given by the department last month and prior to that the public works department had also issued notices, said the officials. Presently, the 44 feet road comes under the newly formed Municipal Corporation of Manesar (MCM), which has planned to widen the road, they said. RS Bhath, district town planner, said that every house on this road was inspected recently and illegal construction was checked. “We have asked the owners to remove the constructions voluntarily as some structures have encroached up to 10 feet on the road. These need to be removed within the next 15 days or else demolition drive will be carried out,” he said. The DTCP officials said that demarcation of the road would be carried out in the next three days after which the owners can take corrective measures. “Most of these properties are rented out to labourers and workers in Manesar,” said Bhath. As per the MCM officials, not only this road but several other village roads have been encroached upon. “Once this road is cleared of encroachments, the others will also be cleared gradually,” said an MCM official.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/gurugram-property-owners-in-manesar-village-asked-to-remove-encroachments-101639511042164.html
15-12-2021||Lucknow||Yoga got global recognition due to PM, says UP chief minister||VARANASI Chief minister Yogi Adityanath said that yoga, which is a complete science in itself, had got global recognition due to Prime Minister Narendra Modi. “We are taking our Indian culture to heights under the leadership of Prime Minister Narendra Modi. We also celebrate the International Yoga Day on June 21 every year, which has been started by the PM. Every Indian is proud of the recognition that India’s tradition, culture and civilization have received on the global stage,” he said at the event to celebrate the 98th anniversary of Sadguru Sadafaldeo Vihangam Yog Sansthan in Varanasi on Tuesday. “Swarved is the science of prana or breath, pranayam is a part of that and yoga is a complete science in itself,” said Adityanath.He said the Dham of Baba Vishwanath had been dedicated to the nation on Monday under the leadership and guidance of the Prime Minister. “The PM is here to interact with all the devotees on this karmabhoomi of Sadguru Sadafaldeo,” added the CM.He said during Azadi ka Amrit Mahotsav, many programmes were underway in the country as a mark of gratitude to the country’s freedom fighters who had sacrificed their lives for the freedom of India.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/yoga-got-global-recognition-due-to-pm-says-up-chief-minister-101639510982089.html
15-12-2021||Other||HC orders SIT probe into forgery of army officials’ signature||Chandigarh The Punjab and Haryana high court has ordered probe by a special investigation team (SIT) headed by IPS officer Prabodh Kumar into the forgery of signatures of army officials on treatment documents submitted under the Ex-Servicemen Contributory Health Scheme (ECHS). The court added that the nature of allegations is serious in the scam reported between 2016 and 2021. The allegations are that crores were transferred into the bank accounts of the Amandeep Group of Hospitals for which forged prescription/ verification slips and documents with fake seals/ stamps of the Indian Army and forged signatures of senior army personnel were used, it added. The court was hearing the bail plea of one Narinder Kumar, arraigned as an accused in April 2021 FIR, on allegations of cheating, forgery and criminal conspiracy registered at Shahpur Kandi in Pathankot. The initial complaint was made by army authorities to the hospital. Now, three FIRs stand registered into the scam. Inquiries conducted by the hospital had pointed the needle of suspicion on the petitioner and one more person. The petitioner had alleged that the he had been made a scapegoat and that the investigating agency was under the influence of the hospital due to its deep pocket. He had also alleged the involvement of army officials. The police probe, initially, had given a clean chit to the hospital. Later, the hospital’s name was also added to the FIR. When during the hearing court asked about the reason for the same, the state counsel’s response “drew a blank”. Interestingly, these affidavits were filed by Bureau of Investigation, Punjab. The high court bench of justice Deepak Sibal dismissed the bail plea and taking into account the seriousness of the case asked the SIT led by Prabodh Kumar, Special DGP, Investigation, Lokpal, Punjab, to investigate. He would choose his team, including one officer of the rank of superintendent of police, himself. The SIT would probe all three FIRs, registered into the scam. The court has also directed the Punjab DGP to extend all possible assistance to the SIT.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/hc-orders-sit-probe-into-forgery-of-army-officials-signature-101639510864815.html
15-12-2021||Chandigarh||Youth Congress workers, cops clash near Himachal Vidhan Sabha||A clash broke out between Youth Congress workers and police at Zoravar Stadium near Himachal Pradesh Assembly complex in Dharmshala on Tuesday.The Youth Congress workers, were protesting over inflation, unemployment, old pension scheme, police pay band, policy for outsourced employees and issue of piecemeal workers, and were proceeding to gherao the assembly.The cops, however, stopped them, resulting in a clash during which several police personnel and Youth Congress workers received minor injuries.A female cop suffered shoulder injuries and was rushed to the hospital while Youth Congress’ state working president Yadopati Thakur also fainted.Later, the protestors sat on dharna near the barricades put up by the police and demanded that a minister should come to listen to their demands.After this, Kangra deputy commissioner Nipun Jindal reached the spot and listened to the protesters. The Youth Congress workers also submitted a memorandum to the government through DC. After the assurance from the DC, the Youth Congress ended the protest. Youth Congress state president Nigam Bhandari said that they were peacefully protesting against inflation, unemployment, old pension when police resorted to cane-charge.Meanwhile, leader of Opposition Mukesh Agnohotri raised the issue in the House and demanded strict action against officials responsible for cane-charge on the protesting Youth Congress workers. On this, Speaker Vipin Parmar said that he was collecting information in this regard.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/youth-congress-workers-cops-clash-near-himachal-vidhan-sabha-101639510862607.html
15-12-2021||Chandigarh||2 students killed as bike, truck collide in Shimla||Two students of APG University, located on the outskirts of Shimla town, died after their bike had a head-on collision with a truck near Dochi village. The deceased were identified as Aditi and Devonto, hailing from Maharashtra and West Bengal respectively. Both died on the spot. Bodies of deceased have been shifted to Indira Gandhi Medical College and Hospital, Shimla. The truck driver has been detained.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/2-students-killed-as-bike-truck-collide-in-shimla-101639510562395.html
15-12-2021||Other||Parole to prisoners from abroad: Central treaties to prevail over state govt rules: HC||Chandigarh The Punjab and Haryana high court has held that Central government treaties with foreign countries would prevail over state government rules on parole to prisoners, transferred from other countries. The bench of justice Sant Parkash said courts should also refrain from passing any such order, which would result into denting the harmonious relationship between the two countries, while considering parole cases of such convicts. To maintain balance in overall international harmony, honour bilateral agreements and to avoid negativity in the relationship between countries, courts should not pass such orders, which come in the way of relationship between the two countries, it added. The court was hearing parole pleas from three persons, all murder convicts, transferred from the United Kingdom. One Harpreet Singh had sought parole of four weeks to get married. He was involved in an April 2011 murder, awarded life sentence and transferred to India on the Centre’s request, and lodged in Kapurthala jail. The second case was of Gurminder Singh, also lodged in Kapurthala jail, seeking parole of eight weeks for the repair of his house. He was convicted in September 2014 for murder and awarded life sentence. He approached the UK authorities for transfer, which was allowed in September 2018. The third case was of Gurmej Singh, convicted in a murder case and awarded life sentence in February 2006, with a minimum term of 35 years. In May 2012, the UK authorities accepted his transfer plea. During the hearing it came to fore that he had availed nine paroles, each of eight weeks. The petitioners had argued that the enforcement of sentence shall be governed by the law of the receiving state and that the country alone would be competent to take all appropriate decisions. In its response, the Centre had said that while considering parole pleas bilateral agreements should be honoured, adding that due to violations of agreed terms, the UK government had placed on hold, requests of transfer of prisoners to India. The court observed that since the agreement on transfer of sentenced persons is entered into at the level of Union government with a foreign country, appropriate authority in all cases would be the Centre and the rules of state governments would not apply to persons transferred under the Centre’s agreement, it was the Centre, who has to honour and take care of the sensitivities involved in the bilateral relations with the foreign country. “Thus, irresistible and unerring conclusion can be drawn that parole cases of the petitioners are to be governed by the terms and conditions of the Indo-UK Agreement,” the court said, dismissing the pleas and adding that the state authorities are merely the custodian of such convict. The limited role of a state authority is to receive and hold him in custody, it added.
15-12-2021||Chandigarh||Government put ‘Himachal on sale’, says Opposition as they walk out||Opposition Congress created an uproar in the House and locked horns with the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party members over the government’s move to lease out tourism department properties, which were recently constructed with funding from Asian Development Bank (ADB), before staging a walk-out.As soon as the question hour ended, leader of Opposition Mukesh Agnihotri raised the issue under point of order.Accusing the state government of putting ‘Himachal on sale’, Agnihotri said that prime properties of tourism department which were built with funds provided on loans were being sold to private players.He said that four properties of tourism department in Mandi, Solan and Kullu districts, including convention and cultural centres, had been sold to private players for 10-15 years, in violation of the norms. Agnihotri alleged that recently the government got sanctioned a loan of ₹2,095 crore to develop tourism infrastructure by building similar properties.The ruling party members refuted the allegations and accused Agnihotri of lying on record in the House, eventually resulting in a heated exchange between the leader of opposition and the parliamentary affairs minister Suresh Bhardwaj. Amid sloganeering from both the sides, the Opposition members moved into the well of the house and staged a walkout after some time.Meanwhile, making a statement in the house after the Opposition walked out, Jal Shakti minister Mahender Singh Thakur said that the tourism department properties were not sold but leased out to private properties.The minister alleged that when in power, the Congress had sold tourism department units, including Wildflower Hall.“The properties leased out by the state government will have a clause of 5% annual increase in the lease money, which will add to the state coffers,” he said.The minister said that many tourism department-owned units were running into losses, with some even becoming defunct.He said there was no harm in the leasing out properties if the Himachal Pradesh Tourism Development Corporation (HPTDC) was no able to operate them.“The properties have been leased as per the norms of ADB and the directions by the centre,” he said.“The Opposition members are disrupting the House daily just for media glare,” he said.State parliamentary affairs minister Suresh Bhardwaj said it was the UPA government that propagated public-private-partnership (PPP) and built-operate and transfer basis to make public sector units financially viable.“However, they are now opposing the move by the BJP government,” he said
15-12-2021||Other||Rash, negligent driving doesn’t equate with over-speeding: Allahabad HC||The Allahabad High Court, while enhancing compensation to the parents of a young man who died in a road accident, has held that rash and negligent driving does not always equate with over-speeding, on Tuesday.The bench comprising justice Sunita Agarwal and justice Krishan Pahal allowed the appeal filed by one Dr Anoop Kumar Bhattacharya (who died during the pendency of the case) and Leena Bhattacharya.The appellants’ plea was that a rashly driven truck claimed the life of their son. This truck was insured, and therefore, the insurance company was liable to pay compensation.The counsel for the insurance company argued that as per testimony of an eye-witness, he chased the truck for 2-3 kms after the accident and the truck was being driven at a speed of 50 kmph. Therefore, it was not over-speeding and the driver was not driving rashly. However, the high court rejected this argument and said that rash and negligent driving does not always equate with over-speeding.Earlier, the Motor Accident Tribunal had awarded a compensation of ₹2,30,400 along with interest of 8% pa from the date of judgement. However, the high court considering the hardship of the parents of the deceased enhanced the same to ₹33,50,000 and directed the National Insurance Company to pay the same.The court observed, “An accident leading to the death of a child causes great shock and agony to the parents and family of the deceased. The greatest agony for a parent is to lose their child during their lifetime.”“We can only imagine the pain and agony suffered by claimant no.2 (mother of the deceased). First, she lost her only son and then she lost her husband too. Against daunting odds, she has spent the later years of her life fighting a long and lonely battle enduring a fate we do not wish on anyone,” observed the bench while awarding interest of 8% pa from the date of filing of the case before the Tribunal instead of interest awarded from the date of judgement by the Tribunal.On July 20, 2004, Abhishek, the son of the claimants, was hit by a truck while travelling on the Delhi-Bareilly highway. Abhishek died while he was being taken to the hospital.In December 2004, his parents filed a petition in the Motor Accident Claims Tribunal seeking compensation under section 161 of Motor Vehicle Act which provides for compensation in hit-and-run cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/rash-negligent-driving-doesn-t-equate-with-over-speeding-allahabad-hc-101639510261767.html
15-12-2021||Chandigarh||Around ₹2.20 crore wages pending under MNREGA, minister tells Himachal assembly||An amount of ₹2.20 crore is pending for wage component under the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Act (MNREGA) and chief minister Jai Ram Thakur has created a ₹100 crore corpus fund to make payments in a time-bound manner in case of delay in release of funds from Centre, rural development minister Virender Kanwar said on Tuesday during the question hour.Apart from the wage component, Rs. 53.83 is pending for material component, the minister added while replying to a question raised by Kinnaur legislator Jagat Singh Negi. He said as many as 1,27,637 works under MNREGA were currently going on in the state. Besides, 74,527 works were also lying pending.He said that in the last four years, the state has done remarkable work under the scheme and exceeded the target of man-days created. “In 2019-20 the state created 280 lakh man-days against a target of 270 lakh man-days. Similarly, in 2020-21 target was 320 lakh man-days while the state created 336.19 lakh man-days,” he said. The minister said that MNREGA has been converged with other schemes to cover the wages of skilled labour. “As far as non-payment of wages over five months is concerned, strict action will be taken against responsible officials,” said Kanwar. He said that Rs.88 crore has been released from the corpus fund for making payments. Hard to assess losses to tourism due to CovidSince people are directly and indirectly involved in the tourism business, it is not possible to make an accurate assessment of the losses caused to the tourism industry due to the Covid pandemic, the government stated in a written reply to the question raised by Dharamshala legislator Vishal Nehria.The government said it has taken various steps to provide relief to businessmen associated with the tourism industry who were hit by the pandemic. Interest subvention scheme was notified by the state government on July 2, 2020, under which working capital loans are available for businessmen associated with the tourism industry for their immediate needs like running daily business, paying wages to workers, paying rent. The scheme was applicable till March 31, 2021, which has now been extended up to March 31, 2022.In 2020, the demand charges for electricity consumption for hotels and restaurants registered under the commercial category were waived for a period of six months and water supply to the registered units was done on domestic rates.Apart from this, Himachal Pradesh Tourism Policy, 2019, has been implemented under which for the construction of new tourism units with a minimum investment of ₹5 crore or expansion of the already established units, 5% of the total fixed capital investment cost or a maximum amount of ₹3 crore would be given as Capital Investment Subsidy.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/around-rs-2-20-crore-wages-pending-under-mnrega-minister-tells-himachal-assembly-101639510201823.html
15-12-2021||Other||Gurugram: DTCP to conduct drone survey of illegal colonies||The department of town and country planning (DTCP) will conduct a drone survey of all unauthorised colonies in the district by January next year to know their construction status and the civic infrastructure available there. On the basis of the survey report, the state government will take a decision on regularising these colonies, said officials on Tuesday.RS Bhath, district town planner (enforcement), said that the district administration has given the permission to use a drone with restrictions in certain areas. “The survey will be conducted within 45 days in collaboration with a private agency with the scope of preparing individual colony layout based on geo-referencing and size of roads, and the construction status of each plot will be mapped. The survey will also establish the physical infrastructure and development status,” he said. As per the directions issued by the Gurugram administration, the drone survey can be carried out in the entire district barring 26 locations, which have administrative and military presence.The DTCP estimates that more than 700 illegal colonies have come up in the district in the past 10 years. The officials said that the survey will generate good quality images with technical data, which will help the department to finalise the status of each colony. “Any fresh violation can be easily identified and action can be taken based on the images generated in this survey,” said Bhath. Under the Haryana urban development and urban local body rules, there is no provision for creating basic infrastructure in illegal colonies in the state. These settlements first need to be notified and only those developed on more than 50% land in a particular area can be regularised and provided civic facilities, said the officials. The DTCP officials further said that the survey report will enable the government to identify the areas where more than 50% development has taken place so that a decision can be taken on the notification of grant of services and infrastructure. Ashish Sharma, assistant town planner (enforcement), said that in the last one and half years, the department has carried out more than 100 demolition drives and cleared around 800-acre land from illegal constructions. “More than 1,500 notices have been issued to violators and the drone survey will help identify the status of illegal colonies,” said Sharma.The state government has also set up a portal for RWAs of unauthorised colonies to share the status of construction, development of infrastructure and layout plan on the basis of which a call will be taken to provide them services and infrastructure. 
15-12-2021||Mumbai||Fisherfolk affected by development projects seek better compensation plan||Mumbai: Fisher communities have expressed concern over the draft policy prepared by the department of fisheries on compensating fisherfolk affected by development activities in Maharashtra. The Akhil Maharashtra Machhimaar Kruti Samiti (a state-wide fishworkers society) wrote a letter to chief minister Uddhav Thackeray raising objections to specific clauses in the policy, stating it would serve as a “death knell” to the community if passed into law. In a letter dated December 8 (HT has seen a copy), president of the AMMKS Devendra Tandel outlined six broad demands one of which pertained to the compensation proposed in the policy which is in line with directives issued by the National Green Tribunal (NGT). The NGT order came in 2015 in a case dealing with the displacement of fishers in Uran by the JNPT port expansion. According to Tandel, the method of calculating compensation was far less than the actual earnings of fisher communities. The NGT had determined that each affected family should be compensated for the loss of earnings. It was assumed that on average a family would comprise four members (two men and two women). The average total earnings per family was taken to be ₹800 per day, which amounted to an annual income of ₹2.92 lakh per year. A third of the amount was considered by the court as a “mere subsistence” amount, and the final “gross loss of income per family” was determined to be ₹1.94 lakh per family per year. “This approach does not consider that in every household both the fisherman and fisherwoman are earning members of the family. This approach does not consider the types of vessels and the overall income of each fisherman... depending upon the size of the vessels and the number of vessels,” Tandel wrote in his December 8 letter. “Very simply, the compensation provided is far less than what fishermen are able to make,” Tandel said. The state government has prepared a draft policy for compensation of fisherfolk affected by development projects with six broad recommendations, including one that mandated proponents of infrastructure projects to deposit a sum equal to 2% of the total project cost with the fisheries department. Details around this proposed regulation are unclear at present. This comes in response to a petition filed in the Bombay High Court by the Mariaayi Machhimaar Sahakari Sanstha Maryadit — a registered fishworkers cooperative based in Vashi — on behalf of the fishing community from Vashi, Juhu, Koparkhairane, Ghansoli and Diva villages. Urban development experts said that the fisheries department must develop such a compensation policy in consultation with fishers. “Arriving at a figure for compensation is a very tricky thing. One cannot make generalisations. There needs to be uniformity in the approach, but the merits of each case need to be considered as well,” said Pankaj Joshi, principal director at the Urban Centre,a non-profit organisation working on urban planning and design. The AMMKS has also demanded fisherfolks’ participation in social and technical impact assessments for development projects, representation on grievance redressal committees, and special assistance to subsistence fishers who are not part of any registered co-operatives. Rajesh Mangela, a fisher community leader from Mora Gaon in Juhu and spokesperson for the National Fishworkers Forum said: “This policy has done only one good thing, in that it will make project proponents pay two percent of their project cost to rehabilitate fishers. But the modalities of how that payout will happen, and how exactly it will benefit us, we don’t know.” Mangela also feared that by legitimising the provision of compensation, project proponents will be given free rein to hamper fishing activities under the banner of development. “On the one hand, areas will be opened up for development due to amendments to the coastal regulatory zone (CRZ) notification. On the other hand, the state says it will compensate for development. But as we have seen with the recent protests in Worli, fishermen want their livelihoods safeguarded first and foremost. The draft compensation policy completely ignores this demand,” Shweta Wagh, an architect and researcher who has been tracking the impact of the Coastal Road on fishing communities in Worli, said. Dr Atul Patne, commissioner, fisheries department, did not provide a comment for this story as he was away on medical leave. Another official seeking anonymity said, “It would not be appropriate to comment. Let the fisherfolk who petitioned the High Court give their response in court first.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/fisherfolk-affected-by-development-projects-seek-better-compensation-plan-101639510142360.html
15-12-2021||Lucknow||‘Asha workers can help in early detection of cancer­’||Lucknow Early detection and awareness were key to cancer treatment, said Padmashree Dr Ravi Kanan, director, Kachaar Cancer Hospital and Research Institute, Assam, while delivering the oration on the occasion of the 38th Foundation Day of Sanjay Gandhi Post Graduate Institute of Medical Sciences (SGPGIMS) on Tuesday. He said around 80% of cancer cases were detected in the third and fourth stages, as a result of which the success in treatment was compromised. In this connection, Asha workers could be helpful in detection of cancer, he said. Dr Kanan said, ”We started a project for early detection of cancer in rural areas with the help of Asha workers, which got a lot of success. With the help of Asha workers, 1360 men were screened for oral and throat cancer. Of these, 6.93 percent were suspected of cancer and were sent to the PHC for further confirmation. Similarly, 3079 women were screened for breast and cervical cancer by Asha workers and 11.5% suspected cases were sent to higher medical centres for further tests. As many as 1160 women were screened for the human papilloma virus, which proves to be the cause of cervical cancer and 146 were found positive.” Professor Kanan said that this project could prove useful in early detection and awareness of cancer in other parts of the country as well. The benefit of this screening was that when 1.29 crore people were screened, apart from cancer, 8 percent of them were diagnosed with diabetes and 12 percent with high blood pressure. He said, “By applying the primary screening model, early detection of non-communicable diseases and cancer is possible.” Dr. Kanan said that there was a need to pay more attention to early detection and treatment of cancer. Chief secretary and president of the institute RK Tiwari said, “Due to Covid, the past one and a half years were very difficult. Despite limited resources, we overcame the challenges of corona with collective efforts. We performed better than many other countries.” Principal secretary, medical education, Alok Kumar appreciated the progress of the institute. In his address, director of SGPGIMS Professor RK Dhiman said that the super specialty DM programme would start soon in emergency medicine and ophthalmology. Apart from this, MSc in radio pharmacy would also be started. He said work wa going on for the creation of a tele ICU. With this system, six prominent medical colleges of the state would be connected with each other for better treatment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/asha-workers-can-help-in-early-detection-of-cancer-101639510024283.html
15-12-2021||Lucknow||‘Lucknow: Ode To A City’, a tribute to the lost heritage’||LUCKNOW: Who was Tikait Rai? Where was Latouche buried?—these and many more such curious questions got an answer on Tuesday with the launch of the latest book of Dr PC Sarkar— ‘Lucknow: Ode To A City’. The book was launched at a function organised by The Lucknow Expressions Society at Kaifi Azmi Academy. Dr PC Sarkar, who holds a PhD in organic chemistry and at present works as a principal scientist with the Indian Council of Agricultural Research, India and is an authority on the history of Awadh, said that his book was an answer to all such curious questions that were never answered before. “There were certain questions that always bothered me for example, the name—Latouche Road, why it was named as Latouche, who was Latouche and so on. Hence, through a book I have tried to satiate the queries of all those who always had such queries,” said Dr Sarkar during the book launch. Sarkar said, “The book is not a history book. It is more of a tribute to the lost heritage of Lucknow, its palaces, architectural marvels which no longer exist and about the people, who had contributed to the uniqueness of Nawabi and colonial Lucknow.” The book launch event began with lighting of the lamp followed by Kanak Rekha Chauhan, founder of the Lucknow Expressions Society, who welcomed the author Dr PC Sarkar as well as the chief guest for the event, Shahansha Mirza Sahab, descendant of Nawab Wajid Ali Shah, and other panelists like Mehru Jaffer, architect Vipul Varshney and Denzil Godin. Chief guest Nawab Shahansha Mirza hopes that this book would create greater awareness about the glorious past. He also compared how Europeans conserve their heritage and how India has shown disregard for many of its heritage sites. Hailing from Kolkata, he feels that “Wajid Ali Shah is much more famous in Kolkata than in Lucknow” and his contribution to the culture in Kolkata was “much more than the potato in the biryani”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/lucknow-ode-to-a-city-a-tribute-to-the-lost-heritage-101639509607466.html
15-12-2021||Chandigarh||Farmers protest shortage of urea in Yamunanagar||Farmers and activists, under the banner of Bharatiya Kisan Union (Charuni), gathered at Yamunanagar deputy commissioner’s office to protest against the alleged shortage of urea in district.Farmers said several individuals and companies are doing black marketing of fertilisers and they can raid factories to show that the government is supplying directly to bulky users instead of farmers.BKU (Charuni) district president Sanju Gudiana said farmers have to wait for hours in line and still leave empty handed.Deputy director of agriculture Jaswinder Saini said there is a short supply from manufacturers and at least 58,000 bags are expected to be delivered in the next three days which will ease the problem to a large extent.“We are ready to work and take action on any lead provided by farmers related to their claim on supply to large users,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/farmers-protest-shortage-of-urea-in-yamunanagar-101639509061827.html
15-12-2021||Lucknow||Human trafficking racket: UP ATS arrests another accused active in Delhi||Lucknow: The Uttar Pradesh Anti-Terrorism Squad (ATS) on Tuesday arrested another person involved in trafficking Bangladeshis into India before sending them abroad on fake Indian passports. The arrested accused operated from New Delhi, ATS officials said. Earlier, the ATS had arrested nine people, including the mastermind of the racket. According to a press statement issued by the ATS, the arrested accused was identified as Mohammad Kayum Sikdar, a Bangladeshi national who was living under the pseudonym Khokhan Sardar in south Delhi. “Mohammad Kayum was brought to ATS headquarters in Lucknow for questioning, on the basis of information provided by another accused. Kayum was arrested after his involvement was found in the illegal racket,” read the press statement. As per ATS officials, Khokhan used to arrange fake Indian documents for Bangladeshis trafficked into the country. He also arranged jobs for them and facilitated their journey outside the country on fake Indian documents. The ATS alleged that the gang trafficked Bangladeshis into the country mostly in West Bengal, where they were kept in abandoned madarsas and taught to speak and sign their names in Hindi. The accused were given fake Hindu names and fake Indian Identity cards before being sent to Delhi via train. On Sunday, the ATS officials held eight such Bangladeshis in Kanpur from a Delhi -bound train. Fake identity cards were recovered from each of the eight individuals. The Bangladeshi nationals were identified as Asidul Islam, Hussain Mohammad, Alamein Ahmed, Jaibul Islam, Jameel Ahmed, Rajeev Hussain, Shekhawat Khan and Aladdin Tariq. Acting on the information provided by the Bangladeshi nationals, the ATS next arrested Mahfazur Rehman, 34, from a madarsa in 24 Parganas, Kolkata on Monday. Rehman is also a Bangladeshi national who was found to be living on a fake ID. The ATS has lodged an FIR of fraud and criminal conspiracy against all the nine accused and started investigation. “Investigation is being done to identify other people linked to the racket. Further arrests will be based on the investigation into the matter,” read the press statement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/human-trafficking-racket-up-ats-arrests-another-accused-active-in-delhi-101639508941828.html
15-12-2021||Chandigarh||Three killed in separate road mishaps in Karnal||Three people were killed in two separate road mishaps in Karnal district on Monday.In the first incident, Baldev Singh (27), of Gonder village in Karnal, and truck driver Naveen Kumar (35), of Sonepat, were killed in collision of a truck and a tractor near Manchuri village in district.Police said the bodies were handed over to families of the deceased after postmortem and investigation is on.In another incident, a 31-year-old man, of Kurukshetra, was killed when his motorcycle was hit by a speeding car on NH-44 near Karnal.Police said he worked at a private company and the accident took place at around 8.30PM when he was heading towards Kurukshetra.Tarsem Singh, in-charge of Karnal’s Sadar police station, said a case has been registered against the car driver under Sections 279, 304A, and 427 of the Indian Penal Code (IC).The body was handed over to kin of the deceased after postmortem, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/three-killed-in-separate-road-mishaps-in-karnal-101639508641539.html
15-12-2021||Chandigarh||Farmers will clear all sites by Wednesday: Tikait||Farmers camping at Jind’s two toll plazas and Hisar’s Ramayana toll plaza on Tuesday lifted their dharnas after the Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM) leaders took part in a ‘Samapan Samaroh’.Addressing the gathering at Jind’s Khatkar toll plaza, BKU leader Rakesh Tikait urged the farmers to get ready for a big battle if the Union government fails to take appropriate steps to ensure minimum support price (MSP) on crops and taking back cases filed against farmers.“We have not ended the agitation but suspended the stir to give rest to the foot soldiers. We have won this battle due to Haryana farmers’ support and Punjab leadership. Political parties and governments had created a wide gap between farmers of the two states over the Satluj-Yamuna canal (SYL) link but this agitation has broken all barriers and united Punjab and Haryana,” he said.“The politicians can also try to divert attention of the SYL but you need to be aware from their dirty politics,” he added.SIT heading in good directionCommenting on the special investigation team’s (SIT) probe into the Lakhimpur Kheri incident, BKU leader Tikait said the investigation is heading in a good direction and Union minister Ajay Mishra should resign from his position on morality.“The farmers’ agitation will play a crucial role in the next year’s Uttar Pradesh assembly polls. The farmers know everything and are intelligent in taking decisions before casting the vote. We will hold a meeting of SKM leaders on January 15 to review the steps taken by the Union government over our demands,” he added.BKU leader Gurnam Singh Charuni said they will form the committees of SKM in all districts across country.“The farmers will clear all protest sites in Haryana by Wednesday morning. If the government tries to betray us, we will launch a bigger agitation against them,” he added.After SKM leaders addressed the farmers at Hisar’s Ramayana toll plaza toll till filing the copy, they directed the farmers to clear the protest sites and ensure that all toll plazas become operational. Except Ramyana toll plaza, majority of the toll plazas in the region are set for operation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/farmers-will-clear-all-sites-by-wednesday-tikait-101639508462376.html
15-12-2021||Pune||River Rejuvenation: Work order not issued yet, PMC scrambles to retain project||PUNE Though Union Jalshakti Minister Gajendra Singh Shekhawat had instructed the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) to issue the work order for river rejuvenation project within the deadline, it is looking difficult as the bid is only at technical evaluation level, civic officials said, adding that an extension has been sought from the Centre. The PMC is executing river rejuvenation project with the help of Japan International Cooperation Agency (JICA). As per the project deadline, it was expected that the project will be completed before January 31, 2022. However even as the deadline is approaching closer, the work for the project is yet to start due to several controversies in the past including inflated bid. Considering this, Pune MP Girish Bapat met the union minister Shekhawat and urged him to give extension for the project so as to ensure the funding proposal from JICA will not lapse. Officials from municipal administration said issuing work order till Tuesday was difficult due to technicalities. Jagdish Khanore, head of the JICA project in PMC stated that the PMC had done the technical evaluation of the bid and has submitted it to the JICA for conducing same during last week. “Now the JICA team is evaluating it. After getting clearance from JICA and central government the proposal will come to PMC for financial scrutiny. Administration will then carry out the financial evaluation and later submit it to standing committee for approval. After that, work order will be issued to the selected firm, which has bagged the contract. In total, six bidders participated in the tendering process.” According to PMC officials, though the project is getting a fund of ₹1,000 crore, due to inflation, the project cost has increased because of the delay. The PMC would need to bear the additional burden for it and for that the ruling party would need to take help from opposition parties.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/river-rejuvenation-work-order-not-issued-yet-pmc-scrambles-to-retain-project-101639508281593.html
15-12-2021||Chandigarh||55,000 students of 2,500 schools join ‘shloka’ chanting on Gita Mahotsav||As many as 55,000 students of 2,500 schools of Haryana recited 18 ‘shlokas’ from 18 chapters of the Bhagavad Gita together at the Vashvik Gita Path organised on International Gita Mahotsav in Kurukshetra on Tuesday.Haryana governor Bandaru Dattatreya and Union minister for tourism and culture G Kishan Reddy attended the programme along with officials of the district administration and 1,155 students from 15 schools in Kurukshetra attended the programme physically at Kurukshetra’s Brahma Sarovar.Over 53,000 students from different parts of the state joined the chanting virtually from their schools.In his address, the governor said people should adopt the teachings of Gita in their lives. He said the International Gita Mahotsav has become an international event and people from different countries are reaching Kurukshetra for the celebrations every year.Union minister Reddy praised Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar for taking the Gita Mahotsav to the international level. He announced that further efforts will be made to promote the event at national and international level to encourage more participation.He said the Union government has already initiated a project to develop religious places of the 48 kos ‘parikrama’ of Kurukshetra.Kurukshetra deputy commissioner Mukul Kumar said the students joined the ‘shloka’ chanting from their schools online. He said thousands of people from different countries also participated in the programme.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/55000-students-of-2-500-schools-join-shloka-chanting-on-gita-mahotsav-101639508221489.html
15-12-2021||Chandigarh||Nuh court traces weapon of murder through UID, leads to conviction||Nullifying the theory of a weapon being planted by the police in a murder case, a trial court in Nuh took upon itself to track the ownership of the pistol allegedly used in the murder, leading to conviction of the accused. The trial pertained to murder of one Aamil Rashid, of Bisru village in Nuh, who was allegedly shot dead by one Khalid of the same village in 2018. The counsel of the accused had said that the .32 bore pistol shown to be recovered from the accused was planted by the investigating agency to falsely implicate the accused. Tracing the murder weapon Highlighting lapses by the investigating officer (IO) in tracing the firearm used in the crime, additional sessions judge (ASJ), Nuh, Prashant Rana in his December 9 order said it came to the notice of this court that there is a number engraved on the sketch of the pistol, a unique number engraved on the pistol which had been manufactured from rifle factory, Ishapore in West Bengal in 2018. “For a just decision of the present case, it was essential that the custody chain of the pistol was tracked. The Bichhore police station SHO was directed to depute a police officer and trace ownership records of the pistol. It was found to have been purchased and owned by the accused, the court said. The court said the defence counsel could not rebut the proof of ownership of weapon despite sufficient opportunities. The ASJ said there was a delay of around a year in dispensation of justice in the present case on account of lapse of the IO in tracing the recovered firearm, which could have been easily traced as it was immediately recovered, was in the name of the accused, and had a unique identification number engraved on it. Court points out police lapses Commenting on the lapses made by the IO in tracing the firearm, the court said the pistol recovered from the accused bore a unique identification number and the IO could have easily proved the ownership and chain of custody of the weapon of offence, but he did not do so. The court said police records showed that the IO was well aware that the accused had purchased the weapon of offence from a gun house in Jammu and Kashmir in August 2018 against his arms licence, a fact the accused had disclosed before the IO. “The IO said the accused told him that he lost the arms license and its photocopy also. The IO became silent about the ownership of the weapon of offence and the arms license of the accused. He did not try to trace the arms license with the weapon registered in it. He became silent for the reasons and intentions best known to him. This court does not wish to impute any mala fide intention to the IO or even exonerate him of such an intention as the same is beyond the scope of this trial. The lapse of the IO may have been wilful and deliberate, or on account of lack of training,” the court said. ‘Duty of court to find out truth’ The ASJ said the accused may have a question in his mind as to whether the court was justified in collecting the evidence. The answer would be in affirmative. The reason being, it is the bounden duty of the court to find out the truth in its entirety, so that the justice is done. The court does not sit simply as an umpire in a contest between two parties and declare at the end of the combat as to who has won and who has lost but it has a legal duty of its own, independent of parties, to take active role in the proceedings and reach at the truth, which is the foundation of administration of justice, the ASJ said. 
15-12-2021||Pune||Finally, offline classes for Class 1 to 7 to restart in Pune from December 16||Schools in Pune and Pimpri-Chinchwad will reopen from December 16, separate notifications by municipal corporations stated on Tuesday, a day before the previous order on withholding plans on resumption of offline classes for Class 1 to 7 was effective. In Pune, municipal commissioner Vikram Kumar issued the order about the school reopening after detailed discussions with the state deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar and divisional commissioner Saurabh Rao. Earlier, the schools were to restart from December 1, but in view of the threat of Omicron variant of Covid, the decision was deferred till December 15. As per the orders issued by the PMC commissioner, Class 1 to 7 of English and Marathi medium schools have been allowed to resume offline classes from Thursday. As per the orders, school administrations should strictly follow Covid protocols and safety measures issued by the state government. All the teaching and non-teaching staff should be fully vaccinated and, if not, they should have done the RTPCR test 72 hours before. Also, it is mandatory to get parents’ consent from students to attend the offline classes in the school. “In Pune, the vaccination is being done on large scale, but the children are not yet vaccinated. So, it was earlier decided not to restart schools till December 15 and review was taken today of the situation. Currently there is only one active Omicron patient in Pune city and we are closely monitoring all travellers coming from abroad. So, it has been decided to resume schools for Class 1 to 7 from December 16,” said Vikram Kumar. Meanwhile, schools from the rural parts of the Pune district, which began offline teaching for class 1 to 4, has seen increased attendance. Speaking about the school reopening, Pune city mayor Murlidhar Mohol said, “The schools in our city are finally reopening from December 16 and while taking this decision deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar, Pune district collector Rajendra Deshmukh, divisional commissioner Saurabh Rao and PMC commissioner held discussion in detail. Now the schools should look after the preparations for restarting of school, right from sanitising school premises and classrooms to getting the parents’ consent is all necessary for the safety of students.” The decision evoked mixed reaction from parents and teachers. Some parents said there was no hurry to restart offline classes in the light of new variant. Others welcomed the decision. “I think it’s a good decision as studying online had hampered overall growth of students who are in the age of learning how to read and write,” said Mandar Kulkarni, a parent. School count Number of schools in Pune district: 4,251 Number of primary school students in Pune district: Over 10 lakh||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/finally-offline-classes-for-class-1-to-7-to-restart-in-pune-from-december-16-101639507986985.html
15-12-2021||Chandigarh||Haryana potato growers suffer losses as wholesale prices crash to around ₹500 per quintal||The beginning of the harvesting season of potatoes has given a bitter experience to the local farmers with the fall in wholesale prices in mandis.Farmers alleged that they are being forced to sell their produce at around ₹500 per quintal and are unable to get even the input cost.“With the beginning of the harvest season, prices have come down to around ₹450- ₹550 per quintal now there is a strong possibility that prices may fall further as the harvest will pick up,” said a commission agent at Kurukshetra’s Pipli grain market.“I have harvested two acre of potato crop and earned just ₹1.10 lakh whereas the input cost on this land was around ₹90,000,” said potato-grower Darshan Lal of Ladwa in Kurukshetra, who has grown potato on 10 acre.Another farmer Kuldeep Singh, who has taken five acre on rent for potato cultivation at Radaur in Yamunanagar district, said, “This seems another bad year for potato farming. At the price of ₹5,000 per quintal, we will not be able to earn the production cost and rent of the land,”Potato traders are blaming poor demand and fluctuating prices in the open markets in country for fall in the prices.“Most potato crop is being sold in the open markets in Bihar and Delhi but the prices are not stable. That is why traders in local mandis of Haryana fear losses and are not showing interest in potato purchase,” said Raj Kumar, a potato exporter from Kurukshetra.Last year, prices of early harvesting varieties had fetched good prices and were sold at around ₹1,500 to ₹2,000 per quintal. “Expecting that the prices may remain the same this year too, most farmers have grown early harvesting varieties but the prices have fallen below expectations,” said an official of the state horticulture department.The Haryana government had announced the ‘Bhavantar Bharpai Yojana’ to compensate for the difference in the situation of farmers selling crop at lower price than the fixed price. But farmers said the base price of ₹5 per kg fixed by the government does not cover the production cost.“Since the yield of early harvest remains around 100 quintal per acre against the 150 to 160 quintal of the lateral varieties, the government should increase the base price to around ₹10 to prevent farmers from bearing losses,” demanded farmer Rajiv Kumar of Shahbad in Kurukshetra district.
15-12-2021||Pune||PMC to give Rs50,000 to Shiv Chhatrapati awardee players, coaches||PUNE: Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) will give cash prize of ₹50,000 to 13 coaches and six players who were awarded the state government’s Shiv Chhatrapati award. The PMC standing committee on Tuesday has given its nod to present the cash award to Shiv Chhatrapati awardees staying in municipal limits. To promote sports activity, PMC is giving cash prize to players and coaches from the city. Standing committee chairman Hemant Rasne said that the sports committee from the civic body submitted these names which were approved in the meeting.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pmc-to-give-rs50-000-to-shiv-chhatrapati-awardee-players-coaches-101639507801437.html
15-12-2021||Pune||6 fully grown trees cut down on temple premises in Pune||PUNE In a reckless act of hacking trees as many as six fully grown trees were axed inside the Mahalaxmi temple premises at Gadital, Hadapsar. Environment activists and Area Sabha Association of Pune, green pune movement held a silent protest on Tuesday to show the devastation of green coverThe Tree authority officer of the Hadapsar ward office admitted his mistake and visited the spot when the activists complained, thus filing a panchnama against the trustees. “The trustees have been writing for requests to trim tree branches as they were overhead and hanging low over the passing road. Besides they also mentioned that there were plenty of migratory birds and bats in the trees whose droppings littered the temple premises. We had given them permission to trim the branches and not to cut them completely. After I received complaints from the residents and activists, I visited the area and they had completely destroyed the trees. Hence, after panchnama I penalsed them to plant 15 trees in place of the six trees they destroyed,” said Prasad Katkar, tree officer, Hadapsar ward office.The trustees mentioned in the letter that besides the bird droppings, the birds also dropped chunks of meat and fish into the temple premises thus causing a problem to devotees, hence Katkar said he gave the permission on religious beliefs and to maintain peace.But residents living in the area feel that it is injustice to the many birds which were nesting in the big banyan trees that were hacked. Ajay Patel, a resident said, “During the lockdown, with no devotees visiting the temple, the trees in the premise had become a sanctuary for many migratory birds and bats. When I heard the noise of wood being cut, I rushed to see that almost all the branches were being hacked and the bird nests were thrown in the nullah flowing nearby. I complained to the ward office and requested them to visit and stop this.”“It is sad to see such devastation. The trees which were well within the premises are heavily pruned or cut. Though the permission was to prune the branches which were stated to be coming over road and hence supposedly were a safety threat,” said Sathya Natrajan, part of the Area Sabha Association.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/6-fully-grown-trees-cut-down-on-temple-premises-in-pune-101639507021349.html
15-12-2021||Delhi||Why Delhi is yet to record a fog episode so far this year||It’s mid-December when usually Delhi records dense spells of fog. However, this year, the city has not even seen a major fog episode so far.Explaining the reason behind this, experts said that parts of northern plains experienced two western disturbances (WD) so far, but none of them added sufficient moisture for the formation of fog. They added that high wind speeds during this period has also ensured that fog did not form in the manner it usually does.India Meteorological Department (IMD) data for the Palam monitoring station shows that Delhi has recorded the lowest fog hours between December 1 and 14 in the last at least six years. In 2015, the city recorded 157 hours of fog, and in 2016, Delhi saw 126 hours of fog during this period. But this year, Delhi has seen seven hours of fog till December 14.Last year, Delhi recorded 74 hours of fog over Palam which included a “very dense” fog spell on December 7, when visibility dropped to zero and operations were impacted at Delhi airport.RK Jenamani, scientist at IMD, who analysed long-term fog data, said this is the first season since 2012 that even shallow to moderate fog has not been recorded so far. IMD classifies the intensity of fog in terms of visibility. When the visibility is between 1,000 and 500 metres, it is classified as “shallow”; between 500 and 200 metres is ”moderate”; below 200 metres is “dense”; and under 50 metres is ‘very dense’.“By this time of the year, we generally get shallow to moderate fog, with a dense fog spell also occurring. After 2012, this is the first time we are seeing similar conditions where even CAT I and CAT II visibility procedures for shallow to moderate fog haven’t been deployed at the Delhi airport,” said Jenamani, who added that though low temperatures were ideal for fog formation, a stable wind pattern is needed for heavy fog spells.“This is not limited just to Delhi, but the entire northern plains. Delhi will see another western disturbance from December 15-16, which may lead to some shallow to moderate fog in the morning, but from December 17 onwards, wind speed will again pick up and conditions will become unfavourable for fog,” Jenamani said.This year, while four hours of fog was recorded on December 3 and 4, when visibility dropped below 1,000 metres, three fog hours were recorded on the night and morning of December 4 and 5.Navdeep Dahiya, an amateur weatherman who runs ‘Live Weather of India’, an online platform that provides weather information, said the two western disturbances in the first week of December were both fairly weak, and could not add enough moisture. “The first western disturbance around December 2 and 3 was near Maharashtra, and by the time it reached Delhi, it fizzled out. The next western disturbance around December 5 and 6 did bring enough snowfall to the mountains, but Delhi only recorded a drizzle,” he said.Dahiya said Delhi may stand a better chance of seeing fog after December 24. “Another western disturbance is expected this week, but it will again be weak... A better chance of good fog is expected only after December 24, when a stronger western disturbance might influence weather,” he added.An official at the Delhi airport confirmed operations have been smooth so far. “There have been no delays or any impact on operations so far due to fog,” he said.Dipankar Saha, former head of Central Pollution Control Board’s air laboratory, said Delhi will have to wait for ideal meteorological conditions. “If the difference between ambient temperature and dew point, which means the point the air is saturated with moisture, is sufficient, one will see fog. You also need clear skies and calm winds for moisture in the air,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/why-delhi-is-yet-to-record-a-fog-episode-so-far-this-year-101639506422770.html
15-12-2021||Delhi||Admissions to entry-level classes begin in Delhi, forms available from Wednesday||Private, unaided and recognised schools in the national capital will start the process of admissions to nursery classes for the 2022-23 academic session from Wednesday, according to the schedule notified by the Delhi government’s directorate of education.According to the admission circular issued by the Directorate of Education (DoE) which provides details of the admission process, schools were to upload the admission criteria by December 14. The admission forms will be available from December 15, and the last date for submission is January 7. The school websites will upload the first list of selected candidates on February 4.The second list will be released on February 21, and a subsequent list, if required, will be announced on March 15. The admission process is to be concluded by March 31, according to the schedule.DoE has made it mandatory for the schools to charge only ₹25 for the application form. The purchase of the school prospectus by the parents will be optional. The department has fixed an upper age limit of 4, 5, and 6 years as of March 31, 2022, for admission in nursery, kindergarten and Class 1, respectively. The minimum age for admission in these classes is 3, 4, and 5 years as of March 31, 2022, respectively, the DoE circular said.In line with previous years, an age relaxation of up to 30 days for admission may be granted by the head of school in the minimum and upper age limits for these classes. Parents can approach the principal or head of the school to seek age relaxation through a subscribed application, the DoE circular said.Most schools in the past have kept maximum weightage for neighbourhood (distance), siblings and alumni while allotting points in their eligibility criteria. However, some have also taken the first child and girl child as a criterion into consideration. For instance, Bal Bharati Public School, Ganga Ram Hospital Marg, has allocated 20 points to the first born child. The Indian School has also allocated 20 points to the first born child.Sudha Acharya, chairperson of the National Progressive School’s Conference, which has over 120 private Delhi schools as its members, said the forms for nursery admission will be available on the school website as well as the campus for convenience of parents who are not very technology-savvy. “ While the majority of the parents nowadays tend to opt for online forms, we will also be providing the forms on school premises since parents living in the vicinity and others who are not tech-savvy might need hard copies of the form,” said Acharya, principal of ITL Public School, Dwarka.Apeejay School, Panchsheel Park, has allotted 10 points to physically disabled children. The school also allocated 15 points to a first-born child or a girl child.“Parents seeking admission can visit the school’s website for registering their children. We have adopted an admission process which is well-defined and transparent to ensure equitable admission opportunities for all,” said Ritu Mehta, principal, Apeejay School.The DoE has given the schools autonomy to decide their own criteria for admission, and upload them on DoE’s website by December 14. But it has also warned the schools not to include 50 listed parameters — such as parents’ education, profession, income, food habits, and written or oral interviews of both students and parents — that were abolished by the Delhi government in 2016.A senior Delhi government official, who asked not to be named, said in case of any grievances and violation of rules, applicants can lodge a complaint with the DoE. “If any specific complaint against violation of norms against any school is lodged, we will take action,” said the official.Sumit Vohra, who runs a portal on nursery admissions, said in complete violation of the government guidelines on admissions, some schools had given preference to aspects that have been abolished by the government.“Some schools have given 50 marks preference to students coming from areas where school transport is available. As per the criteria abolished by the government, schools cannot make a declaration regarding picking or dropping. No one is taking cognisance of these violations,” said Vohra.Asma Saeed, a parent, said she was keeping a tab on the schools in the neighbourhood that have uploaded the criteria already. A resident of Vasant Enclave, she is aiming at securing a seat in a good school in the neighbourhood for her daughter. “The only points I will be able to get are the ones for distance. I don’t meet any other criteria for sibling or staff. I will take some time and make a list of the schools where I can apply before registering,” said Saeed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhiadmissions-to-entry-level-classes-begin-forms-available-from-wednesday-101639506242500.html
15-12-2021||Delhi||Air quality in Delhi deteriorates further amid low temperature, moderate winds||elhi’s air quality deteriorated on Tuesday, touching the higher end of the “very poor” category, as temperatures remained low and wind speed remained moderate. The Capital recorded an air quality index (AQI) of 367, according to the Central Pollution Control Board’s (CPCB) daily 4 pm bulletin on Tuesday, an increase from Monday’s reading of 331 (very poor), and 254 (poor) on Sunday.Delhi recorded a minimum temperature of 7.5°C and maximum temperature of 22.7°C on Tuesday, both a degree below the normal temperature for this time of the year. In comparison, the maximum and minimum temperature on Monday was 22.4°C and 6.6°C.The India Meteorological Department (IMD) has forecast the minimum temperature to remain around 7°C for the next two days.It, however, said that the minimum temperature could rise to around 8 degrees Celsius (°C) by Friday under the influence of a fresh western disturbance, which is expected to bring a spell of very light rain on Thursday night. The temperatures will again start dropping from Saturday and could touch 5-6 degrees Celsius, it added.“There is a possibility of very light rain and drizzle activity occurring on the evening and night of December 16. This is under the influence of another western disturbance, but its impact will be minimal as it will be fairly weak over Delhi NCR,” said R.K Jenamani, scientist at IMD.In terms of air quality, agencies forecast that Delhi’s AQI will remain in the “very poor” range till Wednesday, with a slight improvement expected from Thursday. “Delhi is recording low temperatures for the past three days and that has led to a slight deterioration in air quality, with wind speed also moderate. Air quality will remain ‘very poor’ for two days before a combination of some light rain and an increase in wind speed aids Delhi from Thursday onwards,” said Gufran Beig, founder and project director at the Centre-run System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting And Research (Safar).CPCB classifies AQI as “poor” when it is between 201 and 300, as “very poor” when it is between 301 and 400, and “severe” when it is over 400. Delhi last recorded a “severe” day on December 2.According to experts, Delhi tends to see a second spike in air pollution towards the last week of December, when temperatures dip to their lowest. “Air quality should remain between ‘poor’ and ‘very poor’ during this period, but historical data shows a spike tends to occur in the last week of December and the first week of January,” said Anumita Roychowdhury, executive director, research and advocacy at the Centre for Science and Environment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-pollution-air-quality-worsens-as-winds-remain-calm-101639506181166.html
15-12-2021||Delhi||Veg or non-veg: Delhi HC wants stricter markings on food||he Delhi high court has ruled that there should be complete disclosure of all ingredients used to manufacture any food article so that people can determine if they are truly “vegetarian” or “non-vegetarian”, adding that “every person has a right to know what they are consuming and nothing can be offered to the person on a platter by resort to deceit, or camouflage”.A bench of justices Vipin Sanghi and Jasmeet Singh added that the ingredients used in the manufacturing process should not only be written in code, but also by source of origin -- plant or animal, made naturally or manufactured in a laboratory.“It should also be fairly disclosed as to what is the plant source, or animal source – as the case may be, in respect of all the ingredients in whatever measure they are used. The Food Business Operators are directed to ensure full and strict compliance of Regulation 2.2.2(4) on the basis that the use of any ingredient – in whatever measure or percentage, which is sourced from animals, would render the food article as non-vegetarian,” the court said in a December 9 order that was made public on Tuesday.The bench noted that it has found that several food articles which have ingredients sourced from animals are shown as “vegetarian” by affixing a green dot on the packaging.While hearing a plea by a trust, Ram Gau Raksha Dal, for labelling of all products -- including eatables and cosmetics -- as “vegetarian” or “non-vegetarian” not only on the basis of its ingredients but also on the substances used in the manufacturing process, the bench threatened action against food business operators if they did not comply.It said that the failure of the authorities to list “non-vegetarian” products used in the manufacturing of food articles was tantamount to deceit of the public at large, and particularly those who wished to profess strict vegetarianism, thus leading to a violation of the fundamental rights.“It matters not – as to what is the percentage of such ingredients (which are sourced from animals), which are used in the manufacture of food articles. Even though their usage may constitute a minuscule percentage, the use of non-vegetarian ingredients would render such food articles non-vegetarian, and would offend the religious and cultural sensibilities/ sentiments of strict vegetarians, and would interfere in their right to freely profess, practice and propagate their religion and belief,” the court said in an order of December 9.The petition contended that it is the fundamental right of any citizen to know whether or not the food they consume, cosmetics and perfumes they use, clothes/garments they wear, contain, or are manufactured by using, components or parts derived from the body of an animal.On December 9, the high court was told by the petitioners that one ingredient coded on packaging as E631 denotes Disodium Inosinate -- the disodium salt of inosinic acid. The bench was told that this is used as a food additive, and often found in instant noodles, potato chips, and a variety of other snacks, and is commercially prepared from meat or fish.Taking note of this, the high court bench said, “A little search on Google shows that it is often sourced from pig fat. Even though it is a food additive, yet, the Food Business Operators often do not disclose in their packaging – in terms of the Regulations..., that the food article wherein the said ingredient is used, is a non-vegetarian product.”Though several such ingredients are used, merely the codes of the ingredients are disclosed, without actually disclosing on the packaging as to what is the source, i.e. whether it is plant based, or animal based, or it is a chemically manufactured in a laboratory, it added.The Food Safety and Standards Authority of India (FSSAI) told the Delhi high court that all food business operators are already mandatorily required to mention the list of ingredients used in manufacturing or processing of food products.To be sure, packaged food items are tagged with red (non-vegetarian) and green (vegetarian) tags based on ingredients, as per the Legal Metrology (Packaged Commodity) Rules, 2011.The matter will next be heard on January 31, 2022, when the court is also expected to adjudicate on the aspect of cosmetic items as well.FSSAI officials did not respond to requests seeking a comment.
15-12-2021||Delhi||Delhi only state to issue RC at vehicle dealer’s shop: Kailash Gahlot||Transport minister Kailash Gahlot on Tuesday said that Delhi is the first state in the country to issue registration certificates (RC) through self-registration at vehicle dealerships across the city.“For this, we even had to amend the Delhi motor vehicles rules,” said the minister.The transport department had started the pilot project for printing RC by enabling self-registration for dealers in the south zone in March.The first RC was issued on March 17, 2021 and by September 2021, all self-registration dealers in Delhi were empowered to print vehicle RCs.“The transport department has already issued 144,395 RCs through self-registration dealers since the start of the pilot project. Delhi sees close to 600,000 new vehicle registrations every year and with the new system of RC printing, buyers will no longer have to wait for months to get their RC, no longer have to visit RTO’s and can enjoy hassle free registration of their new vehicles. This service will soon be officially dedicated to the public by Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal,” said Gahlot.The new QR code-based smart cards for RCs have the owner’s name printed on the front, and the microchip and the QR code are embedded on the other side.Delhi has 263 dealers who are providing the facility of printing of registration certificates at the dealerships.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-only-state-to-issue-rc-at-vehicle-dealer-s-shop-kailash-gahlot-101639505823205.html
15-12-2021||Delhi||Electric vehicles sales in Delhi more than India average: Gahlot||Delhi is emerging as the “EV capital” of India with sales of electric vehicles (EVs) in the city six times higher than the rest of the country, city transport minister Kailash Gahlot said on Tuesday.“Delhi’s progressive EV policy has turned out to be a huge success. In the last quarter, EVs have surpassed the sales of CNG and diesel vehicles in Delhi. Between September and November 2021, EVs accounted for 9% of the vehicles sold in Delhi; while the national average is 1.6%. In the last quarter alone, 9,540 EVs were sold in Delhi,” he said.The Delhi government notified its EV Policy on August 7, 2020. Under the policy, the Delhi government has set a target for EVs to account for 25% of sales by 2024. As part of the policy, Delhi also became the first state in the country to fully exempt road tax and registration fees for all new EVs registered in the city.Chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Tuesday tweeted, “I’m glad Delhi is emerging as the EV capital of India with a 9% share of EVs. Delhi is doing everything possible to reduce its contribution to pollution.”So far, the Delhi government and the power distribution companies have facilitated setting up 201 charging stations with over 380 charging points across Delhi in the past two years --- the highest for any city in the country, Gahlot said.“Another 600 public charging points are to be added by mid-2022. The Delhi government recently launched India’s first single window facility to install EV chargers faster (within seven days) and cheaper (under ₹2,500 for slow charger) than anywhere else in India,” he said.A total of 9,540 electric vehicles were sold in Delhi from September to November. Of this, 2,873 were sold in September, 3,275 were sold in October and 3,392 in November. EVs have risen to the second position in automobile sales, after petrol vehicles (82,626 units sold), according to Delhi government data.At the same time, EVs surpassed popular choices such as diesel and CNG-run vehicles by a significant margin. 7,820 CNG vehicles and 2,688 vehicles were sold between September and November. In the hybrid category, 3,918 petrol+CNG vehicles were sold, and 1,429 petrol + other hybrid variants were sold, the data showed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/electric-vehicles-sales-in-delhi-more-than-india-average-gehlot-101639505524123.html
15-12-2021||Delhi||Now, top floor residents don’t need NOC from East MCD for terrace construction||The East Delhi Municipal Corporation (EDMC) on Tuesday allowed owners of the top floor of residential buildings to undertake construction within the permissible height of 15 metres without a no-objection certificate (NOC) from the owners of the lower floors, senior civic body officials said.EDMC mayor Shyam Sunder Agarwal said despite relaxation, it will be mandatory to submit a structural safety certificate of the building, and design of the proposed construction from the civil engineering department of the corporation.“In the event of any damage or mishap to the existing building or to the surrounding buildings or to any person or otherwise, wherein sanction of building plans/regularisation of the individual floor has been sought, the structural engineer as well as the owners and the concerned architect will be solely responsible and liable for action as per law,” Aggarwal said quoting an order issued in this regard by the chief engineer (building).The order also clarified that the construction will be allowed only on those buildings where ownership document clearly defines the right to make construction on a floor and to lay the internal services like water, electricity, drainage, sewage and use of common services.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/now-top-floor-residents-don-t-need-noc-from-east-mcd-for-terrace-construction-101639505342442.html
15-12-2021||Delhi||Delhi-Kathmandu bus services to restart after 19-month break||New Delhi: The Delhi-Kathmandu bus service, known as the ‘Maitri Bus Sewa’, will resume from Wednesday (December 15) after being suspended for nearly 19 months due to the Covid-19 pandemic, the Delhi Transport Corporation (DTC) announced on Tuesday.Only passengers with a final vaccination certificate (having taken both doses of a Covid-19 vaccine) and an RT-PCR negative report will be allowed to board the bus on this special route. The first bus on the route will start from the Ambedkar Bus Terminal at 10 am on Wednesday. After this, the bus will depart for Kathmandu from the same terminal every Monday, Wednesday and Friday. The return bus from Kathmandu to Delhi will run on Tuesday, Thursday and Friday. The fare for the journey is around ₹2,800, which was ₹2,300 before the pandemic. The bus service, connecting the capital cities of India and Nepal, was launched in November 2014. The operation of the bus was shut down on March 23, 2020 amid the first wave of the pandemic.“The latest Covid-19 protocols/guidelines issued by the ministry of home affairs (MHA) will to be followed in true spirit. It will be mandatory for all the passengers to carry a certificate of both doses of Covid-19 vaccine and a negative RT-PCR test report within 72 hours of the start of the journey. The passengers will not be allowed to board the bus if they fail to produce the documents,” said DTC deputy chief general manager (PR) RS Minhas.The bus service covers a distance of 1,167 km between Delhi and Kathmandu with stoppages at Firozabad, Faizabad in Uttar Pradesh and Mugling (Nepal). The bus will also stop at Sanauli (India-Nepal border) for customs checking. Passengers travelling between Delhi and Kathmandu are not allowed to disembark or embark enroute except at the scheduled halts. The Maitri Bus Sewa was initiated as a symbol of friendship between India and Nepal and since its beginning, the buses have frequently carried pilgrims, tourists, foreign delegates and the general public from both the nations.Delhi-Lahore bus stays suspendedMeanwhile, the Delhi-Lahore bus service of the DTC, popularly known as ‘Sada-e-Sarhad’, continues to remain suspended until further orders, senior officials of the corporation said. The DTC had suspended the bus service for Lahore in 2019. This decision was taken after Pakistan suspended the Delhi-Lahore bus service in the wake of India revoking the special status of Jammu and Kashmir under Article 370. 
15-12-2021||Delhi||Delhi: 11 agitations by North MCD teachers in four years, yet salaries pending||More than 7,000 teachers in North Delhi Municipal Corporation-run schools have said that they do not agree with the decision by a confederation of staff unions of the civic body to withdraw a strike against non-payment of salaries and dearness allowance, claiming that they do not trust the assurances by the civic body.Shikshak Nyay Manch (SNM) – an umbrella body of teachers’ association of the three municipal corporations in Delhi, in fact, alleged a tacit understanding between the Confederation of Municipal Corporation of Delhi Employees Union (CMCDEU) and the Bharatiya Janata Party-ruled North MCD.According to Kuldeep Singh Khatri, the president of SNM, teachers of North MCD schools have gone on 11 strikes in the last four years. “But barring two occasions, our grievances were not addressed,” Khatri said.Nearly 10,000 employees of the North MCD that included teachers, doctors, sanitation workers and paramedical staff called off a 24-hour strike organised on Monday after the civic body assured them that the dues will be cleared within a time frame provided to the staff union leaders during talks between the two sides.The teachers, however, have said that they will continue boycotting online classes until the salaries are credited their bank accounts. They have also been demanding that the civic body should provide clarity on the ₹500 per month internet charge.Khatri said that after the North MCD administration de-recognised four teachers’ unions -- Delhi Adhyapak Parishad, Prathamik Shikshak SC/ST Union, Akhil Delhi Prathmik Shikshak Sangh and Nagar Nigam Prathmik Shikshak Sangh -- in 2015, the teachers were left with no forum to raise their grievances. “After three years of struggle, the teachers finally formed a non-political platform SNM in January 2018. Since then, we have staged as many as 11 demonstrations, including dharnas and hunger strikes, at different venues. But barring on two occasions, all our appeals fell on deaf ears,” he said.Khatri said the circular issued on Monday by the North MCD was not clear on payment schedule. “We have four months’ salary dues now, but they have assured to pay for only two months. Even about the payment of outstanding dearness allowances arrears, the circular states that it will be released as per the availability of funds. They are asking us to take online classes, but they have no answer to under which head they will bear the internet charges of ₹500 per month. As far as the civic body’s claims that employees had called off their strike on Monday, are not the teachers their employees? It was like a match-fixing, where all the concerned stakeholders were not taken into consideration. Their assurances are nothing more than a ploy to delay the payment till the coming municipal elections, so that the next dispensation faces the issue. If our demands are not fulfilled by this week, will will have no option but to demonstrate before the BJP national headquarters on Deen Dayal Upadhyay Marg,” Khatri said.Vinay Tanwar, a teacher in a North MCD school, said the municipal officials promised to pay the September salary by Monday, but no fund has been released as yet. “At the same time, the North MCD mayor said that they will release funds for November’s salary of the Safai karamcharis. We are unable to understand the calculation of these leaders that if they don’t have ₹60 crores to pay our October salary, how they can give ₹77 crore to safai karamchari for November’s salary,” he said.Pawan Kumar, another North MCD teacher, said the teachers will no more rely on the written or verbal assurances given by the civic body. “Can they publicly admit that how many promises have they fulfilled so far? They have now become habitual of making empty promises,” he said.When contacted, Raja Iqbal Singh, the North MCD mayor, said the civic body officials are trying their best to find an amicable solution to the problems of the employees and pensioners. “We are not getting our share of funds from the Delhi government. Despite running out of funds, we are trying to make regular payments to them. I hope that things will be normal in a month or so,” he said.Senior AAP leader and the party’s MCD in-charge, Durgesh Pathak said the BJP-ruled municipal bodies were a testament to the high-headedness and corruption among the BJP leaders. “There are number of areas in which the BJP-ruled MCDs have failed to deliver. But they have only two ways to handle everything -- either blame it on the AAP government or fool the employees,” he said.AP Khan, the convener of the CMCDEU, said the strike was called off on Monday taking cognizance of the positive approach of the civic body administration “Since the municipal authorities have sought three weeks, to redress all our grievances, all the unions of confederation have unanimously accepted their proposal. If they do not fulfil their promises , we will decide the further course of agitation after that. We are not supported or affiliated to any political party,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi11-agitations-by-north-mcd-teachers-in-four-years-yet-salaries-pending-101639504860788.html
15-12-2021||Delhi||26-year-old held for beating stepson to death in south Delhi||A five-year-old boy was allegedly beaten to death by his 26-year-old stepfather in front of his mother in south Delhi’s Ambedkar Nagar area on Sunday evening, following which police arrested him from the house the same day.A senior police official said they received a PCR call from one of the neighbours and a team rushed to the house but was informed that the boy was already taken to the hospital.Deputy commissioner of police (south) Benita Mary Jaiker said, “The boy was taken to AIIMS Trauma Centre where he declared dead on arrival. The police team which reached the hospital found that there were bruises on the body.”The police team subsequently returned to the house and arrested the suspect, identified as Gulsher, a labourer from Bijnor in Uttar Pradesh. Police said they have filed a case under IPC section 302 (murder).According to police, the suspect allegedly thrashed the boy as he returned late from his grandparent’s house nearby.Investigators said the boy’s mother was inconsolable, and kept saying that she tried to stop the alleged assault.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/26yearold-held-for-beating-stepson-to-death-in-south-delhi-101639504080572.html
15-12-2021||Chandigarh||Inaugural stone found vandalised hours after installation in Ludhiana||Hours after a Cabinet minister laid the foundation stone of a road in Nasrali village, the engraved stone was found vandalised on Sunday. A case was registered on the complaint of Gurjant Singh of Nasrali village, a Congress supporter, who found the stone broken on December 12. Industries and commerce, and information, science and technology Cabinet minister Gurkirat Singh Kotli had laid the foundation stone of the road which will link the peripheries of Nasrali village with the Khanna-Malerkotla Road on December 11.However, hours later the inaugural stone was found broken and tossed on the road. The 550m stretch is to cost ₹13 lakh.Assistant sub-inspector Pargat Singh, who is investigating the case, said an FIR had been lodged under sections of the Prevention of Damage to Public Property Act has been lodged against unidentified accused. The police are trying to identify the accused.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/inaugural-stone-found-vandalised-hours-after-installation-101639490956052.html
