16-12-2021||Pune||Hike in bus fees adds to parents’ worries about school transport||PUNE It is a state of joy and worry for Mahesh Shastri and his wife, their daughter is starting school again. The issue they are worried about is her transportation to school. Due to the Covid-19 pandemic, the school bus fees have been hiked. As both of are working, they are completely dependent on the school bus for transportation of their child to school and back. “Our daughter is in Class 3 and the school is 8km away from our house. In the pandemic, I lost my job and all our savings are about to finish. My wife is working, but we have to manage our monthly budget. Now our regular van driver has increased the fees from the earlier ₹600 to ₹1,000. We are already struggling to pay the school fees and now every month, these bus fees are also going to affect our budget,” said Shastri. From December 16 onwards, schools in Pune city have been allowed to reopen for Classes 1 to 7, after consent from parents. Another parent Archana Singh said, “Both my sons used to go to school by bus. Now when the school is re-opening we have been informed to pay ₹2,000 per student initially for school bus transportation and then every month fees will be taken. Earlier we used to pay ₹800 per month for one student. School bus fees are going to increase due to the fuel hike.” Speaking anonymously, a principal of a prominent school in Pune said, “We have 20 school buses, but they have been parked for almost two years. Some have major repair works due as the vehicles not running for a long period. So obviously school bus fees are going to be increased from this academic year, looking at fuel hike prices.” The school bus owner’s association is demanding proper guidelines to start services for students.Kiran Desai, executive president, Pune bus owners’ association said, “The state government had issued the guidelines in October, but they didn’t publish it for the public. Now when we have the guidelines, and one of the major issues is of transporting 50 per cent of children at one time. It is not profitable for any of the bus or van owners and also now only five months of school is left. So starting the bus service at this point is very difficult for us and financially it will affect on our business.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/hike-in-bus-fees-adds-to-parents-worries-about-school-transport-101639677048925.html
16-12-2021||Delhi||Delhi HC orders police protection for interfaith couple||The Delhi high court has directed the city police to give protection to a newly married interfaith couple after they moved the court claiming serious threat to life from their family members for marrying against their wishes.In an order on Wednesday, a bench of justice Chandra Dhari Singh said if any lapse happens in the security or protection of the petitioners, the ACP of Ashok Vihar area, and the SHO, Keshav Puram police station, shall be held liable.The court issued notice to the city police and the family members of the woman and posted the matter for hearing to January 24, 2022.According to the petitioners’ counsel, the couple got married at the Arya Samaj Mandir, Delhi, as per Hindu customs. The lawyer informed the court that the woman is 26 years old and has also completed her graduation while the man is 24 years old.He further submitted that on December 11, a family member of the woman thrashed the man severely. He said that since this is an inter-religious marriage, there are serious threats to life and liberty of the petitioners from the woman’s family.The counsel appearing for the state accepted the notice and sought time to file a reply in the matter. He assured the court that requisite protection shall be provided to petitioners.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-hc-orders-police-protection-for-interfaith-couple-101639676988184.html
16-12-2021||Pune||Pune’s ‘khau gallis’ buzzing again... with Covid norms the casualty||PUNE As universities and colleges in Pune reopened up for offline classes, students from across the country are also returning to the city. Food joints, snack centres and messes around the city are now seeing an increase in business. At the same time social distancing and Covid rules at these food outlets are not being followed. There are several eateries outside college areas – the areas now colloquially known as “khau gallis”, where crowds of youth can now been. Right from Bharati Vidyapeeth College area to outside the MIT college in Kothrud and around the Hatti Ganpati chowk in Sadashiv peth, the khau gallis are bustling again. “We daily hang with friends at the khau galli outside our college. I was missing the campus for the last two years, but now, as college lectures have begun all us friends are meeting up daily. As I stay in a rented flat with friends, we go to a food mess for lunch and dinner,” said Sagar Shukla, a student from Bharati Vidyapeeth college. Priyanka Karne from SP College said, “As the colleges were closed for last almost two years, we friends were not able to meet. Now as the offline classes have started, we now daily meet up at one of our favorite snack centres outside the college. The fun with friends and studying physically was missing.”At most of these khau gallis Covid norms are not strictly followed. Most do not wear face masks and even social distancing has gone for a toss. Despite action taken and penalties imposed on, the fear of Covid is gone and youth have become somewhat careless. Rohan Nalawade, owner of a food joint in Sadashiv peth said, “In the last 1.5 years there was hardly any business as most of the times the shop was closed due to lockdown and when we opened up, due to colleges closed few students used to come. After Diwali students have started coming back to Pune and now the number of my regular student customers has increased. It has given a boost to our business.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/punes-khau-gallis-buzzing-again-with-covid-norms-the-casualty-101639676812135.html
16-12-2021||Lucknow||‘Dowry’ was sought for giving a job in previous regime: UP CM||In a sharp attack on the previous Samajwadi Party (SP) government over the alleged corrupt recruitment process then, chief minister Yogi Adityanath said during 2012-2017, “dahej lekar naukri di jaati thi” (dowry was sought for giving a job). “Now, Uttar Pradesh has undergone a complete transformation and its image before the country and across the globe has changed,” he added.The CM made the statement while handing over appointment letters to 58 sub-divisional magistrates, 34 district basic education officers, 43 senior lecturers, District Education and Training Institute, 173 review officers, 398 sugarcane supervisors, 10 senior cane development inspectors, 208 assistant engineers and 236 stenos selected through Uttar Pradesh Public Service Commission (UPPSC) and Subordinate Services Selection Commission (UPSSSC).Congratulating the newly appointed officers, the CM was quoted as saying by a government statement: “You are the backbone of making the state number one economy in the country. If the backbone breaks, the entire system falls. The previous governments had made this state without a backbone. We intend to bring the state to number one place in the country with efficient people like you.”“Good governance is not possible merely by changing the government. Rather the entire system needs to be reformed,” he said. Underscoring employment generation under his government, the CM said his government had established an honest, fair and transparent work culture because of which the state was progressing fast.Comparing the Samajwadi Party with the characters of Mahabharata, he said earlier the recruitment process was compromised on the lines of caste and money alleging that as soon as any recruitment process used to start in the state, the characters of Mahabharata used to become active for “vasooli” (extortion).“Earlier, the appointment of an SDM was done in lieu of a sum of ₹42 to 65 lakh. A CBI investigation in this regard is still going on. Money was also extorted from eligible candidates,” the CM said. “UP’s economy that was on 6th position in the country four-and-a-half years ago, is India’s second-biggest economy today.” Yogi added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/dowry-was-sought-for-giving-a-job-in-previous-regime-up-cm-101639676748582.html
16-12-2021||Delhi||No notice to parents of couples registering under Spl Marriage Act: Delhi govt to officials||Sending notices to the parental address of couples getting registered under the Special Marriage Act must be refrained, the Delhi government has directed its officials. Strict action will be taken against those who flout the order, the government added, according to news agency PTI.The order has been given in view of such a notice issued by a sub-divisional magistrate (SDM) in 2020, which now is being challenged in the Delhi high court. Owing to the notice, the woman was restrained indoors by her parents, compelling her spouse to lodge a habeas corpus plea in the court, the PTI report stated.In August this year, a contempt petition was filed in the high court against the notice by the SDM to the parents of the couple.The high court in an order in 2009 had issued directions pertaining to the solemnisation of marriage under Chapter II of the Special Marriage Act, 1954. At the time, the court had particularly ordered against sending any notice to the residence of the parties getting registered under the Act or their parents.The latest order, filed by the revenue department of Delhi government on December 10, stated that court order from 2009 was earlier communicated to all deputy commissioners with a request to provide directions to the concerned registrar of marriages under their jurisdiction for strict adherence to the protocol, according to the PTI report. The marriage officer of the registrar could also exhibit the notice on the office notice board.The revenue department's order said that officials must abide by the high court order in “letter and spirit” and “in totality without fail.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/no-notice-to-couples-parents-registering-under-spl-marriage-act-delhi-govt-101639674532791.html
16-12-2021||Pune||One killed, two injured in vehicle pile-up on Pune-Mumbai expressway||PUNE: One person was killed and two others were injured after a pile-up of vehicles near the Khalapur toll plaza along the Pune-Mumbai expressway on Thursday evening.The identity of the victims could not be ascertained immediately, according to Raigad police. The accident happened at the 36 kilometre mark along the Pune-Mumbai lane“There are two cars involved and two other vehicles. The tyre of one of the four vehicles burst and it went off-course, is what we know so far,” said senior police inspector Shirish Pawar of Khopoli police station.The deceased and the injured have been rushed to nearby hospitals.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/one-killed-two-injured-in-vehicle-pile-up-on-pune-mumbai-expressway-101639676628097.html
16-12-2021||Mumbai||State’s Mission 3,000 a failure||Mumbai: As cases peaked during the second wave of the Covid-19 pandemic, (active cases touched 69,858 on April 22) the state government rolled out Mission Oxygen Swavalamban (self-reliance) in May in a bid to avoid oxygen shortage witnessed in many parts of the country during the second wave. The state set a target of augmenting oxygen production — needed in hospitals to treat severe cases — to 3,000 metric tonnes (MT) a day. In the first phase of the mission, the target was to augment production by 2,300MT within six months and the remaining 700 MT within two years. However, as of December, production has increased only by 350 MT — that’s a shortfall of nearly 2,000 MT of the required target. At the peak, around 10% of the active patients required oxygen supply and the total oxygen requirement was 1,800 MT a day. At the time, the state’s capacity was 1,300 MT a day, which forced the government to obtain oxygen from other states. This meant a loss of both money to the state exchequer and treatment time; the state also lacked infrastructure to store the oxygen. With cases of Omicron, the new variant of concern, detected in the state, experts said that self-reliance in oxygen production is the need of the hour. However, in order to reach its first-phase target of 2,300 MT, the state will need another six to seven months. Here’s why: the state hoped to generate 1,700 MT of liquid medical oxygen (LMO) from private industrial units. Till now, it has achieved only 10% or 175 MT of that amount. “The third wave of the pandemic was predicted in September-October though it has fortunately not hit the state so far. With the emergence of new variant Omicron, a fresh wave may hit Maharashtra in the coming few weeks. If it is driven by Omicron or similar and multi-fold transmissible variant, the number of the active patients is expected to be much bigger. For such a scenario, we had set the target of reaching the production of oxygen to 2,300MT, but could not achieve it as the generation from the LMOs in the private sector is taking longer,” a state official requesting anonymity said. The current daily capacity of production from all sources (which includes private LMO units and Pressure Swing Adsorption or PSA plants) is 1,650 MT. The mission According to government officials, if the third wave of the Covid-19 pandemic hits the state, the projection of the peak active cases is 1,295,211. To cater to this projected number, the state will need a concomitant number of beds and medicines as well as an oxygen supply. Of the final target of 3000 MT, 10% is expected to come from the local sources like supply through cylinders, while 20% (600 MT) is expected to be generated from PSA plants. In order to achieve this, the government calculated that 529 PSA plants will be needed, which will cumulatively generate 645 MT of oxygen daily. Of these, 423 are government-owned, including 68 funded from the PM Cares and 16 are owned by Public Sector Undertakings (PSUs). The rest of the PSAs are owned by private entities. At least 366 PSA units have been operationalised which have a cumulative generation of 379 MT a day. The major quantum of the aspired production will come from LMO units run by private enterprises. The state industries department set a target of 1,700 MT and also rolled out a policy in May to encourage private industry to either expand their existing plants or build new ones. The state cabinet cleared the policy which allowed for tax waivers, incentives on terms of capital grants, and making land available at concessional rates among other things. The state government is expected to bear the burden of ₹1,100 crore towards these incentives and concessions. The state government has also decided to set up storage tanks at the district level to ensure that a stock of oxygen supply of three days is at hand. “We have received 200 storage tanks mostly with the capacity of 10 kilolitres from the Emergency Covid Response Fund of the Central government. Major thrust during the emergency is on LMO plants, as the pressure and purity of this form of gas is better,” an official from the public health department said. Other sources include 200MT from 57 proposed Air Separation Unit (ASUs). The current status Six months after it battled to obtain the required quantum during the second wave, the daily production capacity of the O2 is still at 1650MT. Harshadeep Kamble, development commissioner, industries department said that 30 of 70 units with whom the state signed an agreement have gone into production. “The 30 plants have started producing 175 MT in addition to the existing installed capacity of 1200 MT. Bigger units would be operational between March and July 2022 as they take a year to go into production. We expect the target to be achieved by then. One of the biggest plants among them is 75MT-capacity plant in Nagpur and another by a leading company in Aurangabad.” According to an official from the health department, though the state government has given nod to the private players, some of them are wary about the demand-supply gap if the production exceeded the demand. “It requires a huge investment and lot of time to set up the plant. Even though the industries have come forward to set up the plant, they are not sure if there would be demand to the generated oxygen for industrial use after pandemic is over,” an official said. Kamble said that the industries can sell their excessive production of the oxygen for the industrial use to other states in the country if they have excessive production. Industries minister Subhash Desai said that they expect the capacity augmentation by 1,700 MT once all the plants are operationalised. “We have signed MoUs with the industries for the generation of the LMO and the projects are at various stages of installation. They have identified/acquired lands, placed orders to import the machinery. Erection of the plants is underway. The production from many of them will begin soon. We have given an incentive of capital grants up to 150% on their actual capital investments and have received good response to the policy,” he said. Covid scenario The current oxygen production is around 1,100MT of which 750MT is used by industries and 300 MT is used for the medical use. Even if we augment our capacity, there is no demand for more than 1000 MT including all purposes, said an official from the food and drug administration (FDA). Dr Avinash Bhondwe, past president, Indian Medical Association said, “The third wave is predicted to hit the state in January. Looking at the transmissibility of Omicron which is 5-6 times more than Delta variant, the active patients number would be too high in the third wave. We however have not been prepared with the health infrastructure. The oxygen production capacity should have been three times or at least 3600MT by now, but we have failed to achieve it. Similar is the case with ramping up of the bed capacity and procurement of medicines.” Public health minister Rajesh Tope said that the state government is prepared if the third wave struck. “Every hospital at the tehsil level has PSA plant installed with the captive capacity of the generation, which was not in place during the second wave. I am not aware about the status of the LMO plants, but we are in sound position as far as the oxygen production is concerned. We have 3-tier system in place for the oxygen supply by LMO plants, PSA and cylinders. We can always procure oxygen from other states as well in case of the need. There is possibility of the third wave in the month of February, but we are all prepared for it,” he said. 
16-12-2021||Pune||Gaurakshak arrested for meddling with forest dept’s anti-encroachment drive||PUNE A man working as a “gaurakshak” was arrested for creating obstruction in government work by stopping the forest department officials from moving stray cattle that was gathered by the vigilante group in a forest land. The arrested man has been identified as Vedang Vasudev Kanade, 19, a resident of Kasba peth, according to the police.The gaurakshaks had gathered around 150-200 animals in the forest land in Pisoli and called it the Dwarkadhish Gaushala. A mob of the supporters of the group surrounded the forest officials, according to a forest officer.“They rescue cows and other animals and bring them here. But the land where they have been kept is government land. They had kept it there illegally. So when the forest department officials went there to clear it, Kanade tried to block the vehicles moving the animals,” said assistant police inspector Anil Survase of Kondhwa police station who is investigating the case.The Dhwarkadhish Gaushala (cowshed) is operating for more than a year and they had received a notice from the forest department, according to a member of the organisation that runs that cowshed. The shed was started by a man named Swapnil Dandekar.“Multiple notices have been given to them and they were called for hearings each time. None of them reached out or responded. On Wednesday, a final notice was given to them. If they want to use the forest land, they have to give a proposal under Forest Conservation Act which they did not,” said a forest official who visited the spot.The animals have been put through medical examination and moved to a forest facility, according to the official. A case under Sections 353 and 341 of Indian Penal Code was registered at Kondhwa police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/gaurakshak-arrested-for-meddling-with-forest-dept-s-anti-encroachment-drive-101639676449543.html
16-12-2021||Pune||63-year-old killed by speeding two-wheeler in Pune, no arrests yet||PUNE: A 63-year-old woman pedestrian was killed by a speeding two-wheeler in Pune on Monday. However, a case in the matter was registered on Wednesday.The deceased woman has been identified as Mangal Anil Murkute, 63, a resident of Mangalwar peth, Juna Bazar, Pune. The police have not arrested the woman who hit the senior citizen with her two-wheeler moped.The accident happened at around 8pm on Monday near the bus stop in front of Sahyadri Hospital located along Karve road. A complaint in the matter was lodged by the woman’s husband, Anil Murkute, 55, also a resident of Mangalwar peth.A case under Sections 279 and 304(a) of Indian Penal Code along with Sections 184 and 119/177 of Motor Vehicle Act was registered at Deccan police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/63yearold-killed-by-speeding-two-wheeler-in-pune-no-arrests-yet-101639676267969.html
16-12-2021||Lucknow||Demand for online exams: 17 AKTU students held for breach of peace||Police held 17 students of Dr APJ Abdul Kalam Technical University (AKTU), Lucknow, on Thursday for breach of peace when a group of them converged outside the university to register their protest against the AKTU decision to conduct offline semester exams beginning December 28. However, they were released later. The students had assembled there while the convocation of the university was under way. The students are opposing the offline exams in view of the threat posed by the new Covid variant Omicron. They also alleged that full syllabus had not been covered and yet the university administration wanted to conduct offline exams. Secretary, technical education, Alok Kumar in a tweet said, “In the present situation, I’m in favour of offline exams.” After a virtual campaign against their offline semester exams, AKTU students gave “Chalo AKTU” call for December 16 to press for their demand. “The students staged a protest on Thursday because the university held its convocation where governor Anandiben Patel, who is our chancellor, was there to give away degrees. We thought she will take note of our plea,” said a student.One Mohammad Imran Mir in a tweet said, “As everyone is aware about the new Covid variant Omicron, safety of students is important. There are many students who are required to come from different states to appear in offline examination. How can AKTU put several lives to risk?”“Sir #AKTU students are requesting for online exam. Now as cases are rising, I request you to kindly intervene and help students and provide them online option for all four lakh students,” reads a tweet of a student.The students even cited MP chief minister Shivraj Singh Chauhan’s December 6 tweet in which he said exam at the Rajiv Gandhi Technological University there be held online for convenience of students. “If the Madhya Pradesh government can conduct online exam to protect students, why not other state government?. We must protect our students,” said one Anubha Shrivastava Sahai in a tweet.
16-12-2021||Pune||Rickshaw driver in judicial custody for stalking, sexual harassment of school girls||PUNE: A 45-year-old rickshaw driver was arrested by the Pimpri-Chinchwad police for stalking and sexually harassing school girls in Maushi area of Pimpri-Chinchwad over the past two months.The arrested man has been identified as Sanjay Sopaan Rao Shinde, 45, a rickshaw driver and a resident of Alhatwadi located along the old Alandi-Moshi road in Pune, according to the police. He was produced in a local court and remanded to judicial custody.The incident happened around 9 am on Wednesday after which the girls went to the police and a case was registered by 3 pm. The rickshaw driver was arrested immediately, according to the police.“The girls would hire an auto rickshaw to travel to school. The complainant told us that the accused had been following them for the past two months. We were arrested him and he’s been sent to the Yerawada Central jail for magisterial custody,“ said police sub-inspector S Pujari of MIDC Bhosari police station who is investigating the case.The complainant and her cousin sister were standing at rickshaw stand in order to hire a rickshaw when the man inappropriately touched both of them. The older one among the two told the police that the man pulled her towards himself and misbehaved with her.A case under Sections 354(a)(d) of Indian Penal Code along with Sections 8 and 12 of Protection of Children from Sexual Offence Act has been registered at MIDC Bhosari police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/rickshaw-driver-in-judicial-custody-for-stalking-sexual-harassment-of-school-girls-101639676148082.html
16-12-2021||Lucknow||Preparations on for PM Modi’s proposed visit to Prayagraj on Dec 21||The district administration has intensified preparations for Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s proposed visit to Sangam city on December 21. The PM is set to distribute certificates to 2.5 lakh women beneficiaries of various government schemes, including members of self-help groups (SHGs), at a function proposed to be held at the Parade Ground.“For the programme, women from 10 districts will come in the morning of December 21 itself. However, women of remaining 65 districts will come to Prayagraj a day before the event. They will be accommodated here and in nearby districts so that no problems are faced in bringing them to the venue,” said a senior district administration official aware of the development.“The district administration has acquired 92 schools in the district for accommodating the women coming here for the event. On the basis of the list received from the district inspector of schools (DIOS), all arrangements are being made in these schools where women from 21 districts will be accommodated. Already caterers for meals to be served to 60,000 women who would be put up in the 92 schools of Prayagraj have been finalised. Menu too would be decided soon,” he added.ADM (city) Madan Kumar said the PM was expected to come to Prayagraj for the event. “However, the minute-to-minute programme schedule is yet to arrive,” he added. For the event, a team of senior officials will arrive in Prayagraj from Lucknow on December 17. In this, additional chief secretary Manoj Singh; director general of national rural infrastructure development agency and former divisional commissioner of Prayagraj Ashish Kumar Goel and director, Livelihood Mission, Bhanu Chandra Goswami will also be present.Officials said five temporary helipads at two locations near the event venue were being constructed. Keeping the weather in mind, a mega all-weather pandal with a capacity to accommodate 5 lakh people is being put up for the event.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/preparations-on-for-pm-modi-s-proposed-visit-to-prayagraj-on-dec-21-101639675788190.html
16-12-2021||Lucknow||Do projects on KVC, Ram temple to learn tech used there: UP guv to students||Governor Anandiben Patel has urged students of engineering colleges and others to visit the newly inaugurated Kashi Vishwanath Corridor (KVC) and the under-construction Ram temple in Ayodhya to learn about the technology used in construction of these temples.The governor made the remark while addressing the 19th convocation of Dr APJ Abdul Kalam Technical University (AKTU), Lucknow, on Thursday. “The students should do projects to study the engineering and techniques put in place in these temples. They may stay there for few months, interact with engineers and workers who were involved in construction of these magnificent temples,” she added.“It is for teachers and students to learn how the construction work at the Kashi Vishwanath Corridor project costing ₹900 crore was accomplished within two years. Likewise, in Ayodhya the major challenge was of the soil beneath. Experts from various IITs worked hard to ensure that no damage is caused to the temple in the next 1000 years,” the governor said.“Similarly, Saryu Nahar National Project, which remained stuck for nearly four decades, was launched recently. Due to prolonged delay, the cost increased manifold which is a matter of regret,” she added. She also emphasised the use of technology, innovation, experience and knowledge in the construction of a strong and self-sufficient India.The governor called upon teachers of universities and degree colleges to visit primary schools and interact with students. Likewise, students may visit Aganwadi centres and spend time with children maybe on their birthdays. She congratulated the students on receiving their degrees and medals.Former IIT Kanpur director Padam Shri Prof Sanjay G Dhande, who was the chief guest at the ceremony, said, “The real world is a dynamic system. It changes. After Covid, it is changing rapidly. In this changing scenario, some skills become obsolete and some become new and such skills are the in-demand skills.”“Acquiring new skills on your own is the real skill that is required to today’s world. In this sense, I consider the story of Ekalavya very important. He learnt and acquired all skills of archery on his own. He also sacrificed his thumb as ‘Guru Dakshina’ and still acquired the skill of archery through his legs,” he added.“Education is a pull model and not a push model. Unfortunately, many students due to pressure of parents, friends and others feel as if they were forced to study something which they do not wish to study. There is certainly some hunger in each young person,” Prof Dhande said. State technical education minister Jitin Prasada and AKTU vice chancellor Prof Vineet Kansal were also present on the occasion.
16-12-2021||Pune||Activist files case against PMC for ‘failure in discharging its duties’ in consumer court||PUNE Potholed roads, sloppy pick-up of garbage, dumping of construction material in public spaces or general run-down of the civic services, all these factors make us— citizens—grumble. But, for social activist Qaneez Sukhrani it does not end there. In a way to register her protest against the alleged failure on part of the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) administration in discharging its duties towards the citizens, Sukhrani along with civic activists Ashutosh Mashruwala and Umesh Magar filed a case with the district consumer redressal commission. The case has now been admitted by the consumer forum.Sukhrani said, “Conditions of roads is pathetic, trenches dug were not filled up properly, footpath has not been constructed on many stretches, and in places where they are constructed; it is either t broken or encroached upon. The civic administration has also failed to evacuate hawkers or relocate them. The garbage disposal is also not proper. Despite writing multiple letters and emails, the civic authorities have not replied.”Considering this, as a taxpayer and not getting services, the activist filed the case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/activist-files-case-against-pmc-for-failure-in-discharging-its-duties-in-consumer-court-101639675188161.html
16-12-2021||Pune||No water supply to parts of Pune on December 17||PUNE There will be no water supply to Kharadi, Mundhwa, Keshavngar, Wadgaon Sheri areas on Friday, December 17, as per the officials of the water department of the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC).Pune Municipal Corporation carrying out the maintenance work of water pipelines falling under Pune Cantonment water works on Friday. As maintenance works are planned, areas dependent on cantonment areas will not have water supply on Friday, read the statement.PMC water department head Aniruddha Pawaskar said,”Kharadi, Wadgaon Sheri, Keshavnagar, Mundhwa, Ganeshnagar and other parts will not have water supply.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/no-water-supply-to-parts-of-pune-on-december-17-101639674888318.html
16-12-2021||Pune||SPPU launches postgrad diploma in defence tech||PUNE The Savitribai Phule Pune University’s (SPPU) department of defence and strategic studies and the Institute of Defence Scientists and Technologists (IDST) have started a course-’PG Diploma in Defence Technology’. This is the first time such a course has been introduced in defence technology and will commence from this academic year. Interested aspirants can apply for this course online till December 28, 2021. It is a one-year postgraduate diploma course which will study about the design, development and production of all major technology-related equipment in the field of defence. Also, weapons, ammunition, missile systems, naval ships, land and sea mines, bridge design, communication systems, space systems will be studied. Experts in related fields will teach as guest professors. Visits to various laboratories are also an important part of this course. This course is of 32 credits. More information about this is available on the official website of Savitribai Phule Pune University. Giving details of this course Vijay Khare head of SPPU department of defence and strategic studies said, “India is becoming self-reliant in the defence sector and new employment opportunities are being created. This course will make you aware of the basics in this field and will enable you to conduct research and innovation in the future.” BOX Course - PG Diploma in Defence Technology Posts - 40+ Army Officers Eligibility- Science or Engineering graduate Selection- First come first served Website - www.unipune.ac.in||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/sppu-launches-postgrad-diploma-in-defence-tech-101639674708447.html
16-12-2021||Pune||4 years after launch, ‘village of books’ Bhilar has 35 homes housing 30K books||PUNE The Maharashtra cabinet on Wednesday cleared a proposal to set up a ‘book villages’ in all the districts. The idea is inspired by Bhilar in Satara district wherein the concept of a book village was launched in 2017. Sitting between Panchgani and Mahabaleshwar, this little strawberry village is based on the concept of Hay-on-Wye, a Welsh village known for its book stores. The idea was floated by the Rajya Marathi Vikas Sanstha and state education minister Vinod Tawde, and, on May 4, 2017, the village was given its formal identity of Pustakanche Gao (village of books). In 2017, the village had a collection of 15,000 Marathi books in 25 homes. Now, in 2021, the village has 30,000 books in 35 homes. The collection has become more diverse with English and Hindi books making it to the shelves. Now, after four years of its launch, the government is now set to replicate this success model in other districts. According to Vinay Mavlankar, project head in Bhilar the response from the locals and the visitors has been exceptional and it is still growing. “We also conduct other activities related to literature, book readings and literature festivals. This community is growing. In our office in Bhilar there are 50-70 daily visitors. On weekends and holidays this number increases. We are hoping to have 50 homes to host the books. Gradually this number is increasing. Locals in Bhilar have shown exceptional commitment to this project,” he said. In the first phase one such village would be set up in five other revenue divisions in the state. Government has also allotted an annual budget of 19 crore 79 lakh for this initiative. “The process to identify such villages which may have potential to become the village of books is going on. While selecting the village we will have to consider many factors such as the commitment of the locals, cultural foundation and how much of the footfall it would receive. It has to be built through the participation of the people,” said Sanjay Patil, director Rajya Marathi Vikas Sanstha, a state government’s organisation which operates the project in Bhilar. Every road in Bhilar leads to different categories of the books. The brightly painted homes depict the genres they host and a curious reader can simply walk into the room full of books and explore the collection. According to Santosh Sawant, a local of Bhilar who has volunteered to give a room for the collection of books, the readers and the books have now become an integral part of his day-to-day life. “Home is open for the readers from 7 am to 7.30 pm. They can sit for as long as they want and read. This has now become an integral part of our lives. This project has given a new identity to our village and has enriched our lives,” he said. Bhilar is a village known for organically cultivated strawberries. There are mostly farmers in the village. “Books have helped our strawberries. Visitors who come from different towns rarely go without tasting the strawberries. Our children also like to read books. This concept has helped to sow the seeds of reading culture again in our village,” said Nilesh Bhilare, a resident of Bhilar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/4-years-after-launch-village-of-books-bhilar-has-35-homes-housing-30k-books-101639674468232.html
16-12-2021||Lucknow||Vijay Diwas: Valour of Indian armed forces lauded on 50th anniv of Indo-Pak War||Surya Command celebrated Vijay Diwas on Thursday at the Command War Memorial ‘SMRITIKA’ to commemorate the 50th anniversary of 1971 Indo-Pak War in which Indian armed forces achieved a decisive and resounding victory over Pakistan.Bangladesh, then part of Pakistan, became an independent country after the war.Lt Gen Yogendra Dimri, Ati Vishist Seva Medal, Vishisht Seva Medal, GOC-in-C Surya Command, paid homage to the gallant martyrs of the war by laying a wreath at the memorial. Veterans, Veer Naris and all ranks of Surya Command also attended the ceremony and paid their respects to the martyrs. After the ceremony, the army commander interacted with the veterans and the soldiers and conveyed his gratitude to them for their invaluable contribution and exhorted all serving soldiers to continue to uphold the glorious virtues and traditions of the Indian armed forces.The event marked the culmination of the year long Swarnim Vijay Varsh celebrations by the armed forces.Besides, students of GD Goenka Public School, Lucknow also celebrated Vijay Diwas. The students in primary section were apprised about the efforts and sacrifice of fearless soldiers who fought in the war. Also, a video was also shown which was backed by a discussion.Similarly, students of Shri Jai Narain Mishra PG College, Lucknow organised a programme in the presence of principal, Meeta Sah, ANO Maj.(Dr) KK Shukla and Havildar Vikas Kumar, 67 UP BN NCC. A series of programme was conducted which included speech, poems and a skit displaying the scenes of war.Similar event was organised at SKD Academy.In December 1971, in a short and swift military offensive, the Indian armed forces achieved a decisive and resounding victory over Pakistan. The war which commenced on December 3, 1971 saw valiant actions by Indian soldiers and resulted in the formation of a new nation - Bangladesh.The instrument of surrender was signed between Lt Gen AAK Niazi and Lt Gen Jagjit Singh Aurora in Dhaka on December 16, 1971. The day is celebrated by the nation as Vijay Diwas.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/vijay-diwas-valour-of-indian-armed-forces-lauded-on-50th-anniv-of-indo-pak-war-101639674230197.html
16-12-2021||Lucknow||Uttar Pradesh govt presents ₹8479.53 crore mini poll budget||The Uttar Pradesh government on Thursday presented a mini poll budget, seeking an additional sum of ₹8479.53 crore as the second supplementary demands for grants for 2021-22 to distribute largesse to the unorganised sector labourers, increase the pension of persons of old age and farmers and ensure 24-hour power supply ahead of the 2022 assembly elections in the state.An interim budget proposing an expenditure of ₹5,45,370.69 crore and estimated receipts of ₹5,44.836.56 crore, leaving a deficit of ₹534.13 crore, was also presented for 2022-23 to get a vote on account passed for the first few months of the next financial year to meet committed expenditure in view of the 2022 assembly polls.Minister for finance Suresh Khanna presented the supplementary demands for grants for 2021-22 even as the opposition members continued to shout slogans, demanding the dismissal of Union minister of state for home Ajay Mishra Teni, who they said, was responsible for the Lakhimpur Kheri violence that erupted as a vehicle mowed down farmers protesting against three farm laws there on October 3.The state government’s supplementary budget for ₹8479.53 crore includes central assistance of ₹660.00 crore. The supplementary demands would, therefore, cause a burden of only ₹ 7819.53 crore on the consolidated fund. This includes a demand of ₹4000 crore to provide assistance to labourers of unorganized sector. A sum of ₹3382 crore has been included in the demands in various heads under the power sector. A sum of ₹1000 crore has been earmarked for the Uttar Pradesh Power Corporation Limited to ensure 24-hour power supply in the state.An additional sum of ₹670 crore has been allocated for an increase in the pension of persons of old age and farmers’ pension in the state. An additional ₹167 crore has been earmarked for maintenance of blind, deaf and dumb and physically disabled persons in the state. A sum of ₹100 crore has been allocated to increase the limit of the chief minister’s discretionary fund. The state government has also earmarked a token sum of ₹1 lakh to distribute Uttar Pradesh Gaurav Samman to honour those who have contributed for the state and brought laurels to it at the national and international level. A token sum of ₹1 lakh has been allocated for construction of model road and other works from Rajghat bridge to Ramnagar for a smooth Kashi Vishwanath Jyotirling Darshan and Ganga aarti darshan.The state government had presented its largest ever annual budget in size for ₹5,50,270.78 crore on February 22, 2021 despite constraints of the adverse impact that Covid-19 has had on the UP economy. On August 18, 2021, it presented the first supplementary budget of ₹7301.52 crore for 2021-22 to provide large or even token sums for various schemes.“As expected, the UP government has used the opportunity of the second supplementary budget to impress and provide relief to important sections of voters like farmers and workers in the unorganised sector. However, the proposed aid to informal sector workers is to be appreciated as they are among the most vulnerable sections of people for whom there is hardly any social security. The government’s focus seems to be on the rural sector to which more than 70% of population and voters belong,” said Professor Yashvir Tyagi, former head of the department of economics, Lucknow University.HIGHLIGHTS ₹4000 crore has been earmarked to provide assistance to labourers of unorganised sector.  ₹1000 crore demanded for UPPCL to ensure 24-hour power supply. ₹372 crore for funding of power distribution companies under the UDAY scheme. ₹1350 crore has been demanded as compensation to UPPCL. ₹300 crore for carrying out power distribution works under Deendayal Upadhyay Gram Jyoti schemes.  ₹185 crore has been allocated for electricity under Pradhanmantri Sahaj Bijli Har Ghar Yojana.  ₹175 crore has been allocated for Saubhagya Yojana of Deendayal Upadhyay Gram Jyoti scheme for construction of high-tension infrastructure. ₹1 lakh has been allocated for construction of model road and different other works from Rajghat bridge to Ramnagar for smooth Kashi Vishwanath Jyotirling Darshan and Ganga Aarti Darshan. ₹167 crore has been earmarked for blind, deaf and dumb and physically disabled persons in the state. ₹670 crore has been allocated for increase in pension of persons of old age and farmers’ pension in the state. ₹100 crore has been allocated to increase the limit of the chief minister’s discretionary fund. ₹150 crore has been allocated to information department for publicity. ₹1 lakh has been allocated for maintenance of freedom struggle museum in Shahjahanpur. ₹1 lakh has been allocated for giving Uttar Pradesh Gaurav Samman to​ honour those who have brought laurels to the state at national and international level. ₹10 crore has been earmarked under different heads for sports department. 
16-12-2021||Patna||CM launches schemes in flood prone Kusheshwar Asthan, inspects works||DARBHANGA: Bihar chief minister Nitish Kumar on Thursday said that Mithila region is being connected to string of developmental networks on a priority basis and that various schemes are on the anvil to bring flood-prone Kusheshwar Asthan on the development map.The CM said that he had made a commitment to people to visit Kusheshwar Asthan after the assembly bypolls, necessitated following the untimely and tragic demise of three-time sitting JD(U) MLA Shashi Bhushan Hazari in July 2021.Addressing a Jan Samvad programme at Nandkishore High School at Hirni village, the chief minister said, “I congratulate you all for your presence and thank you all. I thank the people for making Aman Bhushan Hazari victorious in the assembly by-elections held on October 30.The CM also launched various schemes via remote. “As many as 28 districts in the state were affected by heavy rains and floods. We did initiate works to execute disaster management programme for immediate relief to the people. We believe from the very outset that the disaster victims have the first right on the state exchequer’, he said.“Darbhanga district was affected by floods, in which Kusheshwarsthan was badly affected. Work has also started in a planned manner to mitigate the miseries of people on this score,” the CM added.“When there talks of constructing a second AIIMS in Bihar in 2015, then the idea of constructing an AIIMS in Darbhanga was in my mind. We have said from the very beginning that a second AIIMS will be built in Darbhanga”, the CM further said.“Mithilanchal is being linked to string of development-related schemes. Initiatives are being taken for industries based on fish and makhana in Kusheshwar Asthan’, he added.State to allot 150 acres for AIIMS, 77 acres to DMCH: CMChief minister Nitish Kumar on Thursday said that the state government would provide 150 land for the AIIMS project while keeping 77 acres for restructuring of Darbhanga Medical College and Hospital (DMCH).The CM also reviewed the proposed construction of AIIMS and restructuring of DMCH on Thursday. The review meeting was attended by Bihar health minister Mangal Pandey, water resources minister Sanjay Jha, Darbhanga MP Gopal Jee Thakur, town MLA Sanjay Saraogi besides top officials of the health department, including additional chief secretary (health) Prataya Amrit, DMCH prinicipal and superintendent.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/cm-launches-schemes-in-flood-prone-kusheshwar-asthan-inspects-works-101639673928024.html
16-12-2021||Lucknow||Genome sequencing: Covid samples from Uttar Pradesh to be sent to Delhi||Covid samples for genome sequencing from Uttar Pradesh will now be sent to New Delhi to avoid wastage of testing kits.Health officials say this is being done to avoid wastage of kits that test a fixed number of samples, while the need at present is to test less of them.“One kit has the capacity to test 96 samples at a time. This means if less samples are tested, the remaining vials go waste. Hence, at present, samples are being sent to the Institute of Liver and Biliary Sciences in New Delhi,” said Dr Ved Vrat Singh, director general medical health, Uttar Pradesh.The National Botanical Research Institute (NBRI) lab in Lucknow that has INSACOG lab can test up to 96 samples for genome testing in one go and it costs around ₹ 2.5 lakh.Indian Sars-CoV-2 Genomic Consortium or INSACOG is a multi-laboratory, multi-agency, pan-India network to monitor genomic variations in SARS-CoV-2 by a sentinel sequencing effort. Not all labs can conduct genome sequencing unless they are in the consortium.The first batch of 22 samples was tested at the NBRI lab. The decision to send samples to Delhi was taken for the second batch, said Dr Singh. If the samples increase, tests will be done in Lucknow only, he said.Genome sequencing is being recommended keeping in view the new Covid variant Omicron that has been reported in several countries and some Indian states. Travellers from other countries, including those marked as ‘at risk’, are coming to India and also Uttar Pradesh.“Since we are getting less daily Covid cases in the state at present, hence we plan the genome sequencing for all,” said Dr Singh.“We are ready to conduct genome sequencing as and when demanded,” said NBRI director Dr SK Barik.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/genome-sequencing-covid-samples-from-uttar-pradesh-to-be-sent-to-delhi-101639673689691.html
16-12-2021||Mumbai||No new Omicron case yet, Rajesh Tope warns of possible third wave||Mumbai The state did not record any fresh Omicron variant cases on Thursday; so far the state has 32 confirmed cases of the new variant of concern.A day after the state health department made a forecast that Maharashtra would see a large number of Omicron cases in January, state health minister Rajesh Tope said that Omicron may be the reason behind the third wave of Covid-19 infections in Maharashtra.“Looking at the experience in other countries, the third wave would be of Omicron. We have seen in other countries that the Delta variant was completely replaced... We can’t predict the exact numbers or how big [the wave will be], but the cases are expected to go up in January and February,” Tope told HT. Officials, however, are not calling it the beginning of the next wave. “These numbers have to maintain a week-on-week growth to say that the curve is turning upwards. These districts have been reporting a chunk of the state’s daily cases. There can be a weekly shift due to various factors including increased surveillance, more tests, etc.” a health department official said.The minister added that even though the state anticipates a surge in cases, there is no immediate plan to introduce any curbs and a call will be taken in due course. “To keep the transmission low, we have to ensure that the Covid-appropriate behaviour is followed and not just during the Christmas celebration and year-end festivities, but also otherwise,” he said. Tope added that the state is prepared to tackle the third wave. The state administration is prepared with the health infrastructure, including beds, medical oxygen supply, critical drugs, availability of doctors and frontline staff, etc.“We have the experience from the first two waves, and we have started preparations long before [Omciron]. Maharashtra can arrange about 1800-2000 MT of oxygen if required. We have 400,000 beds available, paediatric beds are also ready. We have doctors and nurses available. We cannot manufacture doctors... Like we did in the second wave, we can press in final-year students, but we do not anticipate a lot of hospitalisation. With the data available, so far, Omicron does not lead to mass hospitalisation and the death rate is also not scary,” he said.Meanwhile, Maharashtra added 877 fresh Covid-19 cases on Thursday, taking the tally to 6,646,938. It reported 19 COvid-19 deaths, pushing the death toll to 141,317. Mumbai added 272 fresh Covid infections, taking its tally to 766166. Mumbai also saw two deaths, taking the death toll in the city to 16362.The active cases in the state stood at 6693-- a 3.49% jump from 6,467 on Wednesday. Mumbai, Pune and Ahmednagar districts have seen a marginal increase in new cases between December first and the second week, the state health department data showed. Between December 1 and 7, Mumbai had 1,297 new cases, which increased to 1,484 cases between December 8 and 14.A similar increase was noted in Pune from 1,174 to 1,291 during the same period. Ahmednagar added 336 new cases between December 1 and 7, and 355 were added between December 8 and 14. Overall five districts, including Mumbai, Pune, Thane, Nashik, and Ahmednagar, added 4,069 active cases, which was about 6% more than the previous week, the data showed. 
16-12-2021||Patna||Lawyer arrested by EOU after HC order||PATNA: Sleuths of the Economic offence Unit (EOU) on Thursday arrested a lawyer following an order by the Patna high court.The Patna high court on Wednesday had directed the EOU to register an FIR, constitute an expert team and investigate into various objectionable materials and offences committed by advocate Dinesh (goes by single name) and take suitable action under law against him and persons involved in posting objectionable posts on the Supreme Court, the Patna High Court as well as the Union Law Minister on social media.The office is directed to add EOU, Instagram, Facebook, Twitter, Youtube, Whatsup, Messenger, Meta as opposite party to this application, the order said.“A lawyer Dinesh has been abusing the Judges of the Supreme Court including the then Chief Justice of India, Judges of Patna high court as well as the Union Law Minister and other dignitaries. This abuse has been posted on various social media platforms. Though under the law, the abuse is required to be reported to the police; but the social media platforms have failed in their duty, therefore this Court is taking up the matter,” said the bench of Justice Sandeep Kumar.Additional director general of EOU, N H Khan said that the lawyer was arrested from his Kurtha resident under Parsa Bazar police station and his mobile phone and other electronic gadgets have been recovered. “Though the lawyer had deleted all his defermatory posts, we have written to all social media platforms including Facebook to provide details about his posts. We have already formed a special investigation team to investigate the matter throughly,” said Khan.Khan said that all those behind posting derogatory and unsubstantiated comments against judges would be traced and action would be initiated on the basis of available evidence.“EOU has to be reminded that they are duty bound to take suitable action against the persons who are continuously abusing the chief justice of India, Supreme Court judges, Patna High Court Judges including Ex Chief Justice of Patna High Court and the then Union Law Minister on various social media platforms. Social media platforms have also failed in their duty to report such,” the bench added.
16-12-2021||Patna||Woman, son burnt alive over property dispute in rural Patna||PATNA: A 70-year-old woman and her 15-year-old son were allegedly burnt alive by a relative at Karnpura village under Naubatpur police station in rural Patna on Thursday, police said. According to police, the deceased has been identified as Shanti Devi and Amrendra Kumar and the reason behind the incident is suspected to be a property dispute. A suspect has been detained on the basis of statements by villagers, police added. Police further informed that on Thursday morning, the niece of the deceased, identified as Madhuri Devi (32) allegedly poured kerosene in the victim’s room and set it on fire while they were asleep, and bolted the room. As smoke started billowing, villagers rushed to the house in a bid to save them, but it was too late. They immediately informed the police about the incident. Angry villagers later caught the accused and her child and thrashed them. They were rescued only after police reached the spot. According to police, the husband of the deceased died five years ago and they had adopted a child, whose marriage negotiations were going on. Sharing more details, police said that the accused was forcing the deceased to register her entire property in her name. But after the deceased refused to do so, a scuffle ensued between them. One of the victim’s relative Sangita Devi said that the deceased received ₹5 lakh from the state government after her husband, who was an employee of Bihar Fire Services, died. On getting information, the accused reached the house of the deceased and forced her to withdraw the amount and hand it over to her. She also told reporters that the husband of the deceased had left behind some land and a house. Additional SP (Phulwarisharif) Manish Kumar while confirming the deaths, said that preliminary investigation suggests that the accused didn’t want the deceased to transfer her property to an adopted child. “The charred bodies have been sent for post mortem at the Danapur Sadar hospital. The real cause of the death will only be clear after the post mortem report,” the additional SP said. 
16-12-2021||Pune||Back to school in Pune: Attendance better than expected on day one||PUNE As primary schools reopened in Pune city on Thursday, the turnout of students was more than expected. Many schools reported that parent consent to send students is forthcoming, and attendance will increase gradually. According to Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC), in 787 private schools in PMC limits, at least 24,114 students attended school, which is six per cent of the total strength. Whereas in 272 PMC-run schools, at least 19,047 students attended school on the first day, which is 23 per cent of the total students.A majority of students from private schools were in Kondhwa and Yewalewadi and in PMC run schools the maximum number of students who attended school were from Hadapsar, PMC officials said. Speaking about the enthusiasm of students, Harishchandra Gaikwad, president of the Pune district principals’ association said that the turnout was more than expected.“There was a good turnout at schools as the schools reopened almost after one-and-a-half year. The students were greeted with enthusiasm and happiness of teachers had no bounds,” said Gaikwad. Medha Sinnarkar, principal at Laxmanrao Apte Prashala said that 50 per cent of students attended school on the first day.“We are permitted to have 50 per cent students. So of the total capacity of 400 students, we can have 200 students. Of these,100 students were present from Class 5 to Class 7 on the first day. The turnout was unexpectedly good as earlier parents had their reservations due to Omicron cases in the city,” said Sinnarkar. She added that in the first few days, the focus of the curriculum will be to reacquaint students with offline classes.“We will for the next few days, focus on interactive and creative activities which will help students reacquaint themselves with school life. From next week, we are planning to start revision of important topics and slowly focus on the current syllabus,” said Sinnarkar. Archana Panch, vice-principal at Raman Bagh English School said that parent consent is increasing, but transport is an issue.“Till December 31, it is mandatory for parents to drop their children. Post that we have made it compulsory for rickshaw drivers who are using local transport to submit vaccination certificate with both doses. We had around 25 per cent attendance at schools and the turnout is likely to improve in the next few days. We have school for Class 5 to Class 7, from 3pm to 5:30pm, which has helped manage the inflow of children. Many parents have noted that transport is an issue at this point,” said Panch. Another teacher from Muktangan English School and Junior College said that the turnout was 10 per cent at every class.“The turnout was good. It will slowly rise as we go ahead. We have observed a similar trend for Class 8 to Class 10. Initially, parents are a little hesitant to send their children, but as others attend school the parents’ consent increases. We will be going ahead with a hybrid way of teaching with online and offline teaching simultaneously going on,” said the teacher, requesting anonymity.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/back-to-school-in-pune-attendance-better-than-expected-on-day-one-101639672908174.html
16-12-2021||Dehradun||Give security to gay couple facing opposition from families, orders high court||DEHRADUN: A gay couple in Uttarakhand’s Udham Singh Nagar who approached the Uttarakhand high court for protection will get police security to shield them from their families that are opposed to their relationship and their decision to live together.The high court’s bench of chief justice RS Chauhan and justice NS Dhanik on Thursday ordered the district’s senior superintendent of police (SSP) to provide police protection to the couple, said the couple’s lawyer Vikas Anand. .The couple, aged 21 and 23, want to stay together but are facing opposition from their families, Anand told the court in the petition filed on December 15.“After hearing the matter, the high court ordered SSP Udham Singh Nagar and Station House Officer Rudrapur to provide police protection to the youths. Notices have also been issued to family members from both sides (two members from each side),” he said The Supreme Court in 2018 read down Section 377 of the penal code and ruled that sex between consenting adults was not an offence. Anand said the top court also ruled that any discrimination on the basis of sexual orientation violates fundamental rights.In June last year, the Uttarakhand high court underlined that while the law does not recognise gay marriage, consensual cohabitation between two adults of the same sex was not illegal or a crime. The observation was made during a hearing into a petition by a woman alleging that her partner, with whom the she was in a consensual relationship since 2016, was being wrongfully confined by her mother and brother.The high court did not issue any directions in this case after the person alleged to have been detained told the high court that she was not being held against her will.
16-12-2021||Pune||Pune district reports 221 fresh Covid cases, 7 deaths on Thursday||PUNE As per state health department authorities, Pune district reported 221 fresh Covid-19 positive cases and seven virus-related deaths on Thursday. Out of these, six deaths were reported from Pune rural and one death was reported from Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) limits.No new case of Omicron variant was detected on Thursday across Maharashtra, said officials.As per the state health department, PMC has so far reported 5,24,332 Covid-19 cases and 9,233 deaths. While Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC) has reported 270,419 cases and a total of 3,518 deaths. Pune rural has reported 368,785 total cases so far and 7,010 deaths due to Covid.In the Pune district, the progressive count stands at 1,163,536 cases. Out of this, 1,141,709 patients have recovered. There has been a total of 20,111 deaths in the district and at present, there are 1,716 active cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pune-district-reports-221-fresh-covid-cases-7-deaths-on-thursday-101639671587828.html
16-12-2021||Mumbai||Call centres, night vaccination centres to be set up in rural Thane||To ensure that the vaccination drive reaches more people across the district, call centres and night vaccination centres would be set up in the rural areas.Thane district officials claimed that vaccinating as many as possible at the earliest could help curb the spread of the new variant. There are around 1.5 lakh people in the rural parts of the district who have not taken the second dose of vaccine.Moreover, as of now, Thane district has only 83.44% with the first dose vaccination while 56.52% is fully vaccinated. Compared to the State vaccination figures, Thane district has the highest number of people who have not taken the first dose of vaccination.“Our aim is to cater to all strata of people. Evening vaccination centres will be functional from 6pm to 9pm in Murbad and Shahpur primary health centres. In remote parts of the district, we shall make use of mobile vaccination facilities,” said Dr Bhausaheb Dangde, Chief Executive Officer, Thane Zilla Parishad.In 65 villages within the Thane district, 100% vaccination has been achieved while there are plans to set up a special vaccination drive for pregnant women once a week.On Thursday, Thane District Collector, Rajesh Narvekar, held a meeting with the district-level task force for Covid prevention. “We have asked primary health centres at the Taluka level to set up call centres that will focus on increasing the immunisation level in the district. These primary health centres will provide vaccination in the evening slot as well for the convenience of those who are working during the day. Moreover, children will be involved in creating awareness across villages regarding the importance of vaccination,” said Narvekar.Every head of department of all government offices within the district has to ensure that all the staff are vaccinated. “As schools have reopened in the rural parts of the district, teachers should create awareness about immunisation and guide students to ensure their families are vaccinated. Efforts need to be taken at the taluka level to ensure increased participation in vaccination. Restrictions will be imposed for non-vaccinators. Hence, we suggest everyone to come forward as responsible citizens and get vaccinated,” added Narvekar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/call-centres-night-vaccination-centres-to-be-set-up-in-rural-thane-101639670869117.html
16-12-2021||Lucknow||PM Modi to lay Ganga Expressway foundation stone tomorrow||LUCKNOW: Prime Minister Narendra Modi will lay the foundation stone of the Ganga Expressway in Shahjahanpur on Saturday. The expressway, connecting Meerut to Prayagraj, will pass through 12 districts of Uttar Pradesh. It would connect western and eastern regions of the state, officials said. It would be the longest expressway of UP, officials said. The Ganga expressway would have a 3.5 km air strip for assisting emergency take-off and landing of Air Force planes. The 594 km long six-lane expressway will be built at a cost of over ₹36,200 crore. Starting near the Bijauli village in Meerut, the expressway will extend till the Judapur Dandu village in Prayagraj. It will pass through Meerut, Hapur, Bulandshahr, Amroha, Sambhal, Badaun, Shahjahanpur, Hardoi, Unnao, Rae Bareli, Pratapgarh and Prayagraj. Upon completion of work, it will become the longest expressway of Uttar Pradesh, connecting the western and eastern regions of UP. An industrial corridor is also proposed to be built along the expressway.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/pm-modi-to-lay-ganga-expressway-foundation-stone-tomorrow-101639670207863.html
16-12-2021||Bangalore||Karnataka reports 5 more cases of Omicron Covid-19 variant, state tally reaches 8||As many as five new cases of the Omicron (B.1.1.529) Covid-19 variant have been reported in Karnataka on Thursday, state health minister K Sudhakar said. Of the five cases, three were foreign returnees – one each from the United Kingdom, Nigeria and South Africa – and two were returning from Delhi. With the five new cases, the state has so far reported eight identified infections of the much-feared variant.A 19-year-old from the UK, 36-year-old and a 70- year-old from Delhi, a 52-year-old from Nigeria and a 33-year-old from South Africa were found positive for the Omicron variant, the minister said.All five patients have been fully vaccinated against the disease, news agency ANI reported citing the state health department.Five more cases of #Omicron have been detected in Karnataka today: 🔹19 yr male returning from UK🔹36 yr male returning from Delhi🔹70 yr female returning from Delhi🔹52 yr male returning from Nigeria🔹33 yr male returning from South Africa @BSBommai #OmicronindiaThe state had reported the first two Omicron cases in the country earlier this month on December 2 and reported the third case – a 34-year-old Bengaluru native returning from South Africa – after a gap of ten days on December 12. The five new cases on Thursday have been found following no new infections pertaining to the variant reported in the last four days.Also read | Shouldn't dismiss Omicron as mild, warns WHO official as variant spreads rapidlyMeanwhile, on Wednesday, Sudhakar said that the government would issue advisories regarding the usage of facemasks amid concerns about complacency regarding Covid appropriate behaviour. “Omicron is highly infectious. We should keep our guards on. Masking and social distancing should be practiced. It is unfortunate that people are not wearing masks, we will be passing advisories and regulations on the same,” he said.Karnataka logged 303 new Covid-19 cases on Thursday and two related fatalities. So far, 3,001,554 cases and 38,279 deaths have been recorded. The active caseload stood at 7,158. Regarding vaccinations, Sudhakar said that three districts in the state have achieved 100% first dose coverage, while five more were “on the verge”.Amid the concerns caused by the new strain, the World Health Organization (WHO) has said that the Omicron variant appears to be spreading faster in countries where it has been detected. It also said that people infected with the variant “tend to have milder disease” however cautioned that it might still be dangerous and increase hospitalisations. While noting that some studies are underway globally regarding the transmissibility, it said that the results need to be awaited for more clarity.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/karnataka-reports-5-more-cases-of-omicron-covid-19-variant-state-tally-reaches-8-101639669752845.html
16-12-2021||Mumbai||Panje wetlands in Uran returns to life with resumption of tidal water: Greens||With the resumption of free flow of tidal water, Panje wetlands in Uran have come back to life. The water started attracting migratory birds after a gap close to two years and the fishing community too has started having a good catch, claims environmentalist.“This signals the tremendous potential the wetland has. Crabs and fish are found in the saline water here and most importantly, they breed in the adjoining mangroves,” said Nandakumar Pawar, head of Shri Ekvira Aai Pratishtan.The quality of fish caught here is so good that they fetch over ₹400 a kg in the market, crabs sell at over ₹1,800 a kg and lobsters at ₹700 a kg.“This wetland, with its fantastic biodiversity, can contribute to the socio-economic development of the fishing community-dominated four villages – Panje, Dronagiri, Funde and Boikadvira – surrounding the 289ha water body,” said BN Kumar, director of NatConnect Foundation.BNHS studies have shown that over 50 species of birds land here during the October-May season of avian flights via the Central Asian Flyway.BNHS director, Bivash Pandav, said Panje is so beautiful and best suited for these birds that we must conserve it at any cost. He supported the NatConnect idea of conserving the wetland as a Biodiversity Park of Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR).In this context, NatConnect appealed to the State Government to implement its decision taken in December 2015 to maintain Panje (and NRI/TSC wetlands) as bird sanctuaries. The Wildlife Board, presided over by then CM Devendra Fadnavis had taken such a decision.The Shiv Sena, which leads the MVA government now, was also part of the BJP-Sena alliance government. Any delay would only cause damage to the biodiversity property, Pawar said and pointed out that vested interests have managed to block tidal water entry and exit at Panje wetland to render it dry to suit plans to convert the place into a concrete jungle. It was at Pawar’s instance that the National Green Tribunal had ordered clearing of the choke points at Panje.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/panje-wetlands-in-uran-returns-to-life-with-resumption-of-tidal-water-greens-101639669907672.html
16-12-2021||Mumbai||Railways’ first pod hotel gets lukewarm response, officials blame it on Covid||MUMBAI: Nearly a month since its inauguration, the railways’ first pod hotel at Mumbai Central railway station has received a tepid response from passengers. The pod hotel saw 146 bookings in the month of November since being inaugurated on November 17. While the first two weeks of December saw 263 bookings by passengers.The railways’ first-ever pod hotel at Mumbai Central railway station has 48 capsule (pod)-like rooms. Full occupancy in a week means more than 300 bookings per week. Railway officials said that the response was less than what they anticipated but attributed the same to the fact that less number of people are travelling due to the Covid-19 pandemic. “People continue to be afraid which is why there are less passengers travelling by outstation trains. That is the reason for low bookings. We are anticipating more people to book the pods through the end of December and in January,” said a senior Indian Rail Catering Tourism Corporation (IRCTC) official.The railways’ first pod hotel was inaugurated by the minister of state for railways Raosaheb Danve on November 17. The first floor of the Mumbai Central railway station building houses the pod hotel which has 48 capsule-like rooms including classic pods, private pods, and separate pods for women and persons with disability. n order to get more passengers to book the pod hotel, the IRCTC has reduced the prices of the pods and now pods are available for 24 hours at Rs.999 and for 12 hours at Rs.799. A private pod for 24 hours is available at Rs.1699 and for 12 hours is Rs.1,199.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/railways-first-pod-hotel-gets-lukewarm-response-officials-blame-it-on-covid19-101639669606820.html
16-12-2021||Mumbai||KDMC bags 2 awards for energy conservation||The Maharashtra Energy Development Agency (MEDA) announced two awards for Kalyan-Dombivli Municipal Corporation (KDMC) for energy conservation.The civic body has been awarded a certificate of merit with first ranking in municipal sector and second ranking in hospital sector for civic-run Shastri Nagar Hospital.The work done by the KDMC includes installation of new power saving street lights by removing old ones, making it mandatory for housing societies to have solar panels in which 1,910 buildings have installed them and opting for electric buses in the future.Under the 16th energy conservation award by MEDA for saving energy in municipal, building and hospital sectors, entries were allowed from all municipal corporations.KDMC’s electric department, under the guidance of KDMC commissioner, Vijay Suryavanshi, and city engineer, Sapna Koli, has sent the details of street lights, water supply, sewage treatment in September.
16-12-2021||Lucknow||Infra development near prominent religious places in Uttar Pradesh soon||VARANASI: The UP Directorate of Religious Affairs (DRA) would carry out developmental work in areas around prominent religious places, including the Ram Temple in Ayodhya, and equip them with different facilities for devotees, said the first director of the DRA Deepak Agarwal on Thursday. The Ram Temple in Ayodhya is being built by Shri Ram Janmabhoomi Teerth Kshetra Trust. The state government had constituted the DRA in December 2020, with its headquarters in Varanasi. In June 2021, senior IAS officer Deepak Agarwal, divisional commissioner of Varanasi, was appointed the first director of the DRA. He was given the responsibility to set up the DRA headquarters in Varanasi, select staff and prepare a full draft of role, responsibilities and domain of the directorate, as well as division of work. Agarwal said, “The Directorate of Religious Affairs will ensure development in areas around prominent religious places, including the Ram Temple in Ayodhya. Beautifying the localities around the religious places and setting up facilities will be done on priority basis.” Agarwal said that the DRA had already started working on a plan. The development at these places would be as per the vision of the government. In association with the district administration and the development authority concerned, developmental works will first be done around religious places which draw huge crowd of devotees, like Ayodhya, Mathura, Naimisharanya, Chitrakoot and Vindhyachal, among others. Basic facilities like proper roads, rest houses, lighting, drinking water and tourist facility centre would be developed in the vicinity of the temples or shrines, said Agarwal. With its headquarters in Varanasi, the DRA will also focus on infra development around the prominent religious places of Kashi. In addition, there was a plan to development mini restaurants where the visitors and devotees may have food, added Agarwal. He said that the DRA was also working on a plan to develop facilities like online darshan and sugam darshan for the devotees. The directorate will have a staff of 19 people, including two joint directors, an accounts officer, two office superintendents, three stenographers, two establishment assistants, two computer assistants, three drivers and three instructors. Some of the officials would come on deputation from other departments, while the remaining staff would be recruited or outsourced, said Agrawal, adding that a building for the DRA office would be finalised soon. The state government has already released ₹2 crore to the DRA for setting up its office and procuring vehicles and other equipment. A handsome amount through the DRA has been transferred to the Ayodhya administration for infra development in the city, as per an official. To note, a separate Charitable Affairs Department was created on December 19, 1985 for works related to the administration of charitable institutions and temples. After 35 years, its directorate was created in December 2020. 
16-12-2021||Patna||After JD(U), RJD pitches for 'special status' to Bihar||The RJD on Thursday pitched for the Centre granting 'special status' to Bihar, making a common cause with the state's ruling Janata Dal (United) whose strident demand for it has drawn unenthusiastic response from its own ally BJP.RJD leader Manoj Kumar Jha moved a notice for adjournment motion in Rajya Sabha to discuss the issue.Though his plea was not admitted as is the case with almost all such adjournment notices in Parliament, Bihar's main opposition party's stand highlighted its convergence with Chief Minister Nitish Kumar's JD(U) over yet another issue after their shared pitch for caste census, even as the BJP has suggested its opposition on both counts.Also Read | Using Niti Aayog report, Bihar pitches for special status againNoting that Bihar was relegated to the bottom on most of the indicators by NITI Aayog in its sustainable development goals (SDGs) ranking for states, Jha said it should be a matter of collective anxiety and concern, and told PTI that the state's Leader of Opposition Tejashwi Yadav asked him to raise the issue in Parliament to highlight the state's need for special status.He asserted that the RJD was the first party to make a pitch for it soon after Bihar was divided in 2000 and the then chief minister Rabri Devi raised it before the then prime minister Atal Bihari Vajpayee who was "sympathetic" to the demand.It is the JD(U) which has shared the RJD's demand and not the other way round, Jha said, adding that Kumar made the issue a "political football".Biharis in any party should support the demand, he said, adding anybody who is concerned about national progress should realise that it cannot happen without the state's progress."You have to give wholesome focus on Bihar's transformation. And this cannot be without granting it special status," Jha said.Recently, BJP leader and Bihar Deputy Chief Minister Renu Devi had drawn Kumar's ire for claiming that the demand is "meaningless" as the Centre has been providing all-round support to the state's development.Kumar has said she lacked detailed information, and the special status demand is totally justified.Jha made light of the BJP leader's assertion, alleging that the BJP is a "one-man party and even if its leaders feel it is needed they don't have the guts and wherewithal to speak their mind and open their heart".The Centre should revise its stand as India cannot become a USD 5 trillion economy if Bihar lags on all development parameters, he said.Prime Minister Narendra Modi has said that his government has been working to make India a 5 trillion dollar economy by 2024.For Bihar, Kumar has repeatedly sought special status, which grants various benefits and tax incentives for a state.Though former finance minister Arun Jaitley in 2015 had made it clear that the issue was no longer relevant after the constitutional award by the 14th Finance Commission for sharing of tax resources between the Centre and states, Kumar has been persistent about it despite the BJP's indifference.The latest NITI Aayog ranking has again fuelled the demand.The issue has again highlighted lack of cohesion between the JD(U) and the BJP, two parties which share power in the state, over key issues, with leaders of the two parties often making conflicting comments on different matters and even taking potshots at each other.Simmering differences between the two allies had come to fore in Lok Sabha on Tuesday as well when BJP MP Ram Kripal Yadav during the Question Hour expressed disappointment with the Bihar government not being able to complete approved works under 'Pradhan Mantri Gram Sadak Yojana'.Rural Development Minister Giriraj Singh, a BJP MP from the state like Yadav, cited data in his answer that backed his party colleague's claim, prompting JD(U) member Kaushalendra Kumar to ask if Singh had ever sought meetings with state government officials over the issue.Singh said he had held several meetings.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/after-jd-u-rjd-pitches-for-special-status-to-bihar-101639667275729.html
16-12-2021||Other||{Behbal Kalan police firing} Victim’s son starts indefinite sit-in at protest site for justice||Faridkot Over six years after his father Bhagwan Krishan Singh was among two protesters killed in police firing at Behbal Kalan on October 14, 2015, Sukhraj Singh, Bhagwan’s son, started an indefinite dharna at the incident site, the local bus stand. The police firing at protesters gathered against sacrilege had also killed Gurjeet Singh of Sarawan village“Political leaders have built their careers on this issue, but have done nothing to ensure the accused are behind the bars and justice,” Sukhraj said, adding, “Now, politicians are again using sacrilege and police firing for mileage in the assembly polls due next year. We are the ones who are suffering.”He targeted deputy chief minister Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa for failing to ensure even as he had held the home portfolio for months. Initially, Sukhraj planned to carry out a protest march from Behbal Kalan to Kotkapura on Thursday. He was joined by Gurjeet’s father Sadhu Singh, Shiromani Akali Dal (Amritsar) president Simranjit Singh Mann, AAP leader and Kotkapura MLA Kultar Sandhwan and Dal Khalsa spokesperson, Kanwar Pal Singh. Kanwar Pal said, “The victim’s son has resolved to go for an indefinite sit-in due to the total failure of the Punjab government. He is sitting at the same spot where his father was killed in cold blood, under a conspiracy. This is Sukhraj’s personal war, but we have endorsed it and extended moral support to the cause. Our members will join him on rotation. Sukhraj has relaunched the Morcha single-handedly,” he added. The SIT has named former Punjab DGP Sumedh Singh Saini and suspended IGP Paramraj Singh Umranangal as accused, and filed a charge-sheet against them. Now, a trial is going on against them in a court at Faridkot. The Punjab and Haryana high court, however, has stayed proceedings against Saini till February 2022 following which the accused have filed a number of pleas, further delaying the trial.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/behbal-kalan-police-firing-victim-s-son-starts-indefinite-sit-in-at-protest-site-for-justice-101639667627293.html
16-12-2021||Mumbai||Man arrested in Thane for duping 26 women on matrimonial sites||The Kapurbawdi police have arrested an alleged serial conman who is accused of duping at least 26 women to the tune of crores of rupees through matrimonial websites.According to police officials, the accused has been identified as Prajit Keje (44), a native of Pondicherry. The police said that inquiries were initiated against him after a Thane-based woman registered a complaint against him earlier this month. “Between August and December this year, the accused approached the victim through a matrimonial website and, over the course of frequent interactions, promised to marry her. Using this promise, he also had physical relations with her. He then told her that he had recently sold his hotel in Paris and the money that he was supposed to get was stuck due to some issue with the Reserve Bank of India. He further told her that he needed money urgently and would pay her double the amount after his money came to him,” senior police inspector Uttam Sonawane, Kapurbawdi police station, said.The victim paid Keje ₹16.86 lakh, after which he dropped out of contact. The victim subsequently registered an FIR and a team under police inspector Priyatama Muthe was tasked with investigating the case.After detailed inquiries with the victim, the police realised that money was Keje’s weak point. Acting on the police’s instructions, the victim conveyed to Keje that she had sold her flat and had got a lot of money. Keje immediately contacted her and she expressed willingness to ‘lend’ him some more. The victim, however, said that she could only give it to him in person as she had it in cash.Keje agreed and came to Thane on December 11, where he walked straight into the arms of a police team waiting for him. He was arrested and, after being produced in court, remanded in police custody till Thursday.“During further investigation, we have found that the accused has similarly cheated 25 more women based in locations like Mumbai, Kerala, Bengaluru and Kolkata, and made at least ₹2.58Cr using this modus operandi. The number of victims and the amount swindled is expected to rise as investigations progress. We have reason to believe that he has also cheated some people other than women that he met on matrimonial websites, and two of his associates are also under the scanner,” Sonawane said. Keje was produced in court again on Thursday after his custody period expired, and was further remanded in police custody till December 20, officials said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/man-arrested-in-thane-for-duping-26-women-on-matrimonial-sites-101639666849881.html
16-12-2021||Jaipur||Rajasthan govt announces government job to 1971 war martyrs' kin||Rajasthan chief minister Ashok Gehlot on Thursday announced government jobs to kin of 1971 Indo-Pak War martyrs from the state.He made the announcement while addressing a programme on Vijay Diwas at Amar Jawan Jyoti.As per the existing rules, any one dependent of those martyred between August 15, 1947 and December 31, 1970 is given a government job.The new rule will extend the cut off to December 31, 1971, paving the way for appointments of the dependents of soldiers martyred in the 1971 India-Pakistan war.Gehlot said the new rule will be extended to include the son and daughter of the martyr's daughter (Navasa-Navasi), even if adopted, as dependents.The son and daughter of the martyr's brother and sister too will be reckoned as dependents, he said.Gehlot said he is proud of being the chief minister of a state where every house has the spirit of martyrdom to protect the borders of the country.On the occasion, he met and honoured the dependents of the officers and soldiers who were martyred in the 1971 war.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jaipur-news/rajasthan-govt-announces-government-job-to-1971-war-martyrs-kin-101639666158054.html
16-12-2021||Other||2015 sacrilege cases: SIT files 2nd status report on Ram Rahim’s questioning in HC||Faridkot Two days after questioning Sirsa-based Dera Sacha Sauda head Gurmeet Ram Rahim for the second time in five weeks, Punjab Police’s special investigation team (SIT) probing the 2015 sacrilege cases on Thursday submitted a second status report on his interrogation in the Punjab and Haryana high court. The SIT, which inspector general of police (IGP) Surinder Pal Singh Parmar is heading, submitted the status report by way of an affidavit. An interrogation report, including the copies of the questionnaires as well as replies, of Ram Rahim and dera vice-chairperson Prithvi Raj Nain, was filed along with the affidavit. On December 14, the SIT had asked 90 questions from the sect head during his grilling for six hours at the Sunaria jail in Rohtak over his alleged role in the theft of a ‘bir’ (copy) of the Guru Granth Sahib from a gurdwara at Burj Jawahar Singh Wala village in Faridkot district on June 1, 2015, and the subsequent sacrilege incidents. An official said the SIT had filed the report in the high court so that it can be taken up on Friday, during the hearing on Ram Rahim’s pleas seeking anticipatory bail and the quashing of production warrants that a Faridkot court has issued. Sources said that the SIT has claimed in the report that Ram Rahim, again, was evasive and did not cooperate with the probe team so his custodial interrogation is required. The SIT is likely to push for bringing him to Punjab on production warrants for custodial interrogation. The move is also seen as an attempt by the SIT to counter Ram Rahim’s another plea demanding that the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) be asked to continue probe into the 2015 sacrilege cases and that the SIT probe be stayed. The SIT had prepared a new set of questions for Ram Rahim on the basis of 200 queries asked from Nain and documents collected from the dera headquarters in Sirsa. On November 8, the SIT had asked 114 questions from Ram Rahim during his 7-hour grilling in the jail and submitted a 65-page status report in the high court four days later. In the report, the SIT claimed that the conspiracy of desecration of Sikh scriptures was hatched at the sect’s administrative block in Sirsa and that the followers never acted without the permission of Ram Rahim. 
16-12-2021||Mumbai||B-town outbreak: Over 30 close contacts test negative||Mumbai Around 30 samples, that were collected as part of the contact tracing drive that started after Seema Khan tested positive, have tested negative on Thursday, according to Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) officials.The BMC had on Wednesday said that around 108 samples tested negative from the four buildings of Karan Johar, Kareena Kapoor, Amrita Arora and Seema Khan and results of 30 were pending. However, on Thursday, all these samples too tested negative.A BMC official said, “A total of 145 people were traced out of the contact tracing exercise and around 138 people tested positive and few contacts like Kareena Kapoor, Amrita Arora etc were positive along with Maheep Kapoor and Shanaya Kapoor. While the status of around three samples is not known yet.”On Wednesday, the BMC had said that they have sealed the sixth floor of Hiralaya Building in Juhu, where Maheep Kapoor - wife of actor Sanjay Kapoor resides with her husband and children. Further, the buildings of Johar, Kareena Kapoor Khan, Amrita Arora and Seema Khan were unsealed considering over 108 people from these buildings had tested negative.The BMC had said that all the Bollywood personalities had attended a dinner at Johar’s Bandra residence on December 8. The officials labelled the gathering to be the likely source of the contraction of the virus.According to BMC officials, they have appealed to all close contacts to closely monitor their symptoms and ensure that they get tested if any symptoms show. Meanwhile, the BMC on Wednesday also maintained that amid the outbreak of the Omicron variant, citizens should avoid going to huge gatherings and parties owing to Christmas and New Year’s Eve is nearby. Suresh Kakani Additional Municipal Commissioner of the BMC had on Wednesday said, “We have not issued any fresh guidelines but restaurants, bars and nightclubs will have to maintain 50% occupancy and can remain open till 12.30 am for now. Additionally, the state government is preparing guidelines for Christmas and New year’s Eve. We will follow the suit once these guidelines are out.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/btown-outbreak-over-30-close-contacts-test-negative-101639665109367.html
16-12-2021||Mumbai||Kalyan Dombivli Municipal Corporation to crackdown on illegal constructions in 3 months||With more than 20,000 illegal structures in the city, the Kalyan-Dombivli Municipal Corporation (KDMC) and the police department have claimed to crackdown on them in three months.As per KDMC, 20,000 structures are illegal, out of which the civic body has served notice to 15,000 of them, asking them to produce valid documents of the structure. As of now, a total of 350 owners have been booked under the MRTP Act.“We have been trying to crackdown on illegal structures in KDMC limits with the help of police for a long time. However, illegal constructions are still flourishing. In order to make it more effective, we have formed an action plan that will be imposed in the coming days. We have a target to clear most illegal constructions in three months,” said Vijay Suryavanshi, commissioner, KDMC.KDMC has asked the MSEDCL to not provide electricity to such illegal structures and disconnect the existing connections while water supply will also be disconnected. The civic body would also charge the developer for demolition of any illegal construction raised by him, added Suryavanshi.Kalyan Zone 3 DCP, Sachin Gunjal, said, “The police will maintain law and order at the demolition site whenever required and will carry out a thorough investigation of the cases registered by the KDMC officials under the MRTP Act.”
16-12-2021||Noida||Farmers briefly disrupt traffic at Noida-Delhi border||A group of farmers protesting against the local authority here staged a demonstration at the Chilla border on Thursday, briefly disrupting traffic movement on the Delhi-Noida route, officials said.The Noida Traffic Police said the disruption, which started in the afternoon, was brief and normal traffic resumed along the route before evening.The farmers were protesting against the Noida Authority over a host of issues, including their demand for increased compensation for their land acquired by the state government in the past.The protesters, including women, were led by the local Bharatiya Kisan Parishad under the leadership of Sukhweer Pehelwan alias Sukhweer Khalifa, police officials said.“The protesters had staged a demonstration at the Chilla border, disrupting vehicular movement between Delhi and Noida. However, the disruption was brief and the protesters cleared off the site before evening,” a traffic police official said.Normal traffic movement was soon resumed on the stretch, the official added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/farmers-briefly-disrupt-traffic-at-noida-delhi-border-101639664718167.html
16-12-2021||Pune||Political parties in sprint to claim bullock-cart race victory||PUNE All political parties and leaders have welcomed the Supreme Court’s interim decision to allow bullock cart races in the state, a major attraction in rural Maharashtra and Pune district. Bullock cart races are a major attraction in Pune district and western Maharashtr and were the key issue on which the Shirur Lok Sabha constituency elections were contested. For farmers in the district , winning a bullock cart race is a matter of pride and prestige. Shirur MP Amol Kolhe, who had promised to allow bullock cart races again, said: “It’s a very important decision and farmers are celebrating like Diwali. The Maha Vikas Aghadi government deputed good advocates. Now like Tamil Nadu and Karnataka, Maharashtra can hold its bullock cart races .” Kolhe said, “It is half a victory, as the two-judge bench allowed organisation of races, but the integrated hearing for Tamil Nadu, Karnataka and Maharashtra will be held before a bench of five judges before the final ruling.” Former MP Shivajirao Adhalrao said, “When I was MP, I followed up the issue and even filed the petition.” Deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar said, “it is a welcome decision and will bring happiness among farmers in rural Maharashtra.” Maharashtra’s animal husbandry minister Sunil Kedar said, “Maharashtra government is supportive of bullock cart races. I also respect the opinions of animal lovers.” Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) state unit president Chandrakant Patil said, “BJP was supportive of this decision and meetings were taken with Prakash Jawadekar when he was union environment minister. Bhosari MLA Mahesh Landge is a strong supporter of the bullock cart races and always used to about this issue.” As the Supreme Court’s decision came, farmers in Pune district celebrated and social media was filled with photos of bullock cart races from the past.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/political-parties-in-sprint-to-claim-bullock-cart-race-victory-101639664927438.html
16-12-2021||Pune||SC lifts ban on bullock- cart races: Rural economy is likely winner||PUNE In a major reprieve for the Maharashtra government, the Supreme Court lifted the ban on bullock cart racing in the state on Thursday, four years after its stay. The races should be conducted in accordance with the rules and the amendments made by it to the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals Act, in lines with Karnataka and Tamil Nadu, the order stated.With the apex court now giving its nod, several parts of the state, especially Pune and the western Maharashtra region, where the decades-old tradition was prevalent, will once again experience the thrill of the sport, which according to those associated with the races, will also help boost rural economy. In many parts of western Maharashtra, particularly in Pune district, the bullock cart races are seen as a traditional sport where locals invest heavily. Those who participate in the race spend a lot of money on bullocks while the award also runs into lakhs of rupees. In many villages, those winning the race are seen equivalent in social stature with gram panchayat members. Following the SC verdict, the joyous bullock cart owners in Pune district decorated their bullocks and burst firecrackers in Khed, Rajgurunagar, Bhosari and other places. Akhil Bharatiya Bailgada Sharyat Sanghatna representative Ramkrishna Takalkar, said that the apex court has given the nod to hold the races by adhering to the rules and regulations made by the state government in 2017. “Since the Supreme Court has given the conditional permission, we appeal all the bullock cart owners to hold the races by adhering to the rules and regulations. Lakhs of bullock cart owners in the state are happy today. There were accusations against the owners that they mistreat the animals, but all these accusations were wrong. The fact is all the owners treat the bullocks as their own child. Today, with this decision the farmers have heaved a sigh of relief,” Takalkar said. Ramnath Waringe, one of the bullock cart owners from Maval region of Pune district said that all the bullock cart owners in the district are overjoyed after the decision. “Bullock cart owners and farmers never considered the races as means of entertainment. For them, these races were means of boosting the rural economy. Several livelihoods were dependent on these races. It involved the sale and purchase of the breed required for the races.” Waringe owns six bullocks (required for races) worth around ₹40 lakh and has won several races when the sport was allowed in the state. “When I say that these races bring prosperity to the farmers’ community, it means that farmers purchase the young male calf at ₹25,000 to ₹30,000, raise the animal with a lot of care, train it and prepare it for races. If the bullock runs fast, it then can be sold anywhere from ₹4 lakh to ₹5 lakh or even at a higher price,” he said. (With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/sc-lifts-ban-on-bullock-cart-races-rural-economy-is-likely-winner-101639664326989.html
16-12-2021||Mumbai||Kolhapur first to offer property tax rebates under state EV Policy||Mumbai Kolhapur has become the first city in Maharashtra to offer individuals and housing societies concessions on property tax for setting up charging stations for electric vehicles. This step is being taken under the recently notified Maharashtra EV Policy 2021 and was announced by the state minister for transport, Satej Patil on Thursday. Other cities are expected to follow suit, including Mumbai, Vasai-Virar, Navi Mumbai, Thane, Kalyan-Dombivali, Nagpur, Nashik, Pune and Pimpri-Chinchwad, and Aurangabad.“Kolhapur Municipal Corporation becomes the first to offer concessions in property tax for housing societies and individuals setting up electric charging stations... Recently, Maharashtra Govt. launched the EV Policy, with the primary objective to accelerate the adoption of BEVs in the state so that they contribute to 10% of new vehicle registrations by 2025. Kolhapur wants to lead by example in implementing this policy,” Patil tweeted.A spokesperson for the minister confirmed to Hindustan Times that the tax concessions would be made available starting immediately, and can be availed either by shared housing facilities (such as co-operative housing societies) as well as individuals residing within the Kolhapur municipal limits.“If an individual sets up an electric vehicle charging station on their property for personal use, they will be entitled to the two per cent rebate on property tax provided that the station is made available for commercial use as well. For co-operative housing societies, the rebate being provided is five per cent,” the spokesperson said.Maharashtra’s EV policy, which was first tabled in July this year, also provides a range of other SoPs for consumers who purchase EVs. These include subsidised vehicle costs, discounts for early adopters, exemption from road tax and registration fees.The policy aims to incentivise the purchase of 100,000 electric two-wheelers, 15,000 e-autos, 10,000 cars, 20,000 goods carriers (both three and four-wheelers and 1,000 e-buses. On the supply side, the state has proposed to incentivise as many as 15,500 public and semi-public EV charging stations across Maharashtra.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/kolhapur-first-to-offer-property-tax-rebates-under-state-ev-policy-101639663853958.html
16-12-2021||Gurugram||Gurugram namaz row: Former MP seeks contempt action against Haryana chief secretary, DGP||In a fresh development on the issue of protests against Friday namaz in Gurugram, a former Rajya Sabha MP on Thursday filed a petition in the Supreme Court, seeking contempt action against top officials of the Haryana government over what he described as their ‘inaction against identifiable hooligans,' who, he alleged, disrupt the community's prayers Friday every week.Also Read | Gurugram Muslims to approach Supreme Court against namaz vigilantes in GurugramThe petition was filed by former lawmaker Mohammad Adeeb against chief secretary Sanjeev Kaushal and Director General of Police PK Agarwal, Livelaw reported. Adeeb is leading a 21-member delegation to resolve the ongoing impasse.The petitioner submitted that as early as April 2021, those coming to offer namaz in the open, but designated spaces, have been subjected to ‘malicious’ and hateful ‘campaigns’ at the prayer sites. “This nefarious design being given given effect to by propagation and dissemination of hateful content through social media spreading false narratives, terming the performance of Friday Namaz, which is being done in the open due to compulsion and the same is permitted by the appropriate authorities in the circumstances as being illegal and in a manner of some sort of encroachment,” the plea stated.The petition further stated that the contempt action has been sought as the authorities have failed to adhere to the apex court's 2018 directions in the Tehseen Ponawalla vs the Union of India case. “The continuous inaction, apathy of the State machinery and failure of the local law enforcement agencies to prevent such incidents before these spiral into a monstrosity, is precisely what had been indicated by this Hon'ble court in Tehseen S.Poonawalla case, and is thus clearly a contempt of this Hon'ble court's directions,” the petitioner submitted.In recent months, right-wing groups have escalated their protests against what they say is the practice of offering namaz in the open. Last week, Haryana chief minister ML Khattar said that namaz in public places ‘will not be tolerated.’ The Gurugram district administration, too, withdrew permission for Friday at 20 designated sites.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/gurugram-namaz-row-former-mp-seeks-contempt-action-against-haryana-chief-secretary-dgp-101639660970372.html
16-12-2021||Ranchi||Banking services hit in Jharkhand as public sector bank employees begin 2-day strike||Banking operation in Jharkhand was severely affected on Thursday as over 40,000 officers and employees of public sector lenders in the state joined a nationwide strike to protest against the Centre's move to privatise government-owned banks, officials said. Over 3,200 public sector bank branches and most of 3,300 ATMs in the state were shut as the United Forum of Bank Union (UFBU), an umbrella body of nine associations, had given a two-day strike call from December 16. "The strike, which is being observed against the Centre's decision to privatise PSBs, could affect an average daily transaction worth over ₹3,000 crore in Jharkhand. The inconvenience to customers is regretted," UFBU convenor M L Singh said. In the Union Budget for 2021-22 presented in February, Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman had proposed to take up privatisation of two public sector banks. To facilitate it, the government has listed the Banking Laws (Amendment) Bill, 2021, for introduction and passage during the current session of Parliament."We want immediate withdraw of the bill," Singh said. Protesting against the central government's move to amend the banking regulation law, Rintu Rajak, convenor of UFBU, Jamshedpur, said the privatisation of PSBs would "hit the backbone of the country's economy". Due to the strike, an average transaction of around ₹1,200 crore a day in PSBs could be impacted in the Kolhan division, considered as the mineral-rich area and industrial hub of Jharkhand, he said. Almost 1,300 bank branches and 800 ATMs stopped functioning in the Kolhan division, comprising East and West Singhbhum and Seraikela-Kharswan districts, after 4,000 officers and employees participated in the two-day strike.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ranchi-news/banking-services-hit-in-jharkhand-as-public-sector-bank-employees-begin-2-day-strike-101639660532060.html
16-12-2021||Mumbai||Housing societies of Kharghar, Taloja, Kamothe need not pay for water tankers, assures CIDCO in writing||After several agitations by the residents of Kharghar, Taloja and Kamothe over water scarcity, the CIDCO has now given in writing that the societies would not have to pay any money to the tankers provided by it.“We had been protesting against the water scarcity for many months. Last time, our delegation was adamant that we needed a letter in writing by CIDCO and not just verbal assurance. Finally, CIDCO has given us the letter,” Mangesh Adhav from Kamothe Colony Forum said.He added that every time the societies faced water issues, water tankers were called for and the society used to make the payment to the tankers. “We have spread the word about free tankers among all WhatsApp groups, educating people that no one should pay for the tankers,” Adhav said.Kharghar Taloja Colonies Welfare Association (KTCWA) and Kharghar Forum were also part of the protests and have received similar letters. As per the CIDCO rule, 650 litres of water have to be supplied per flat per day.“Kharghar needs around 75MLD water every day while what they receive is around 65MLD. There is a shortage of 10MLD by the CIDCO. Hence, when we inform them about shortage on any particular day, the officers from the water department would come and check the water supply reading for three consecutive days. If the reading shows that there was less water supplied, then CIDCO would provide the difference water through water tankers free of cost. The shortage has to be established and only then we would get the water free,” said Mangesh Ranawade from KTCWA, adding, “Although this won’t be changing the scarcity issue of the city, it is a good initiative by the CIDCO officials and an achievement for the societies. Each water tanker is of 10,000 litre capacity.”KTCWA also plans to start a help desk for their area to address the water scarcity issue and then forward the same ahead to CIDCO. Meanwhile, Kamothe residents have also been promised a water tank at Sector 21, which would be completed in three years’ time. “CIDCO has now given us in writing that they have approached the State government to reserve 90MLD water from Morbe dam considering the future needs and would also be constructing a water tank in Kamothe,” Adhav said.“Sometimes, there is a shortfall of water and whenever there is, we would provide them with a tanker for free to balance the shortfall. We are working to find solutions to overcome the shortfall,” a CIDCO official said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/housing-societies-of-kharghar-taloja-kamothe-need-not-pay-for-water-tankers-assures-cidco-in-writing-101639660366556.html
16-12-2021||Bangalore||Congress holds tractor rally in Belagavi against state govt over several issues||Karnataka Congress leaders on Thursday held a tractor rally in Belagavi against the ruling BJP government in the state over several issues including corruption.The massive rally began from the Congress office in Belagavi and ended at Suvarna Vidhana Soudha where the current legislature session is going on till December 24. Karnataka Congress chief DK Shivakumar and Leader of the Opposition in State Legislative Assembly Siddaramaiah joined the rally with several hundreds of party workers.The protesting party workers were stopped by police at the main gate of Suvarna Vidhana Soudha.Siddaramaiah told ANI that the party is protesting against several issues including "rampant corruption, non-performing of the government and farmers' issues.""They have not given compensation to farmers, who have suffered due to heavy rains and floods and inflation. People working under NREGA have not been paid wages for the last six months. In order to camouflage all these things, they are preventing us from entering the House," he said.Shivakumar said, "We will not go against the law. We are just trying to enter the assembly. The government is dead, they don't have ears, heart or eyes."||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/congress-holds-tractor-rally-in-belagavi-against-state-govt-over-several-issues-101639659681106.html
16-12-2021||Mumbai||Bombay Natural History Society to radio-tag flamingoes in Mumbai for the first time||Mumbai: The Bombay Natural History Society (BNHS) is preparing to tag 10 flamingoes from Thane Creek with radio collars this January. This is being done in order to study the impact on avian biodiversity due to the construction of the Mumbai-Trans Harbour Link (MTHL). This is said to be the first-ever radio-telemetry study of the migratory birds by them.Researchers confirmed that pending permissions from the union telecom ministry, which were expected several months ago, were recently obtained.Dr Mrugank Prabhu, a lead researcher on the project shared, “We will be tagging around nine to 10 flamingoes with radio collars, sometime next month. It has been delayed by at least a year. This is the first time we are carrying out such a study in Mumbai, so we’ll start by experimenting on a small number of birds first to see what kind of data we get.”Researchers highlighted three broad aims of their ongoing study. First, they are trying to assess the true extent of the creek’s flamingo population, with recent estimates putting it between 100,000 to 150,000 annually. The second is to assess the availability and distribution of food in the creek’s intertidal mudflats. The third is to uncover the birds’ migratory routes. A total of 39 birds in the creek have already been tagged with aluminium rings bearing unique ID numbers. Two birds tagged in Mumbai have been tracked from Tamil Nadu and Rajasthan in the last two years. Dr Prabhu further informed that it would be interesting to map the routes of the birds arriving at Thane Creek. “Birds are also coming in smaller numbers from places like Israel, parts of Africa, Kazakhstan and Iran. It will be very interesting to map the route that the birds are taking to reach Thane Creek. Where do they stop? How long does it take them to get here? How long do they stay here? We will be able to answer these questions better through real-time geo-tagged information,” Prabhu added. The program may later be extended to include a larger number of flamingos and other water birds that live in and around Thane Creek.BNHS’ study, which commenced in 2017, will conclude in 2027. It is significant because there has so far been a paucity of studies carried out on flamingoes and the ecology of Thane Creek. The ongoing research will form the basis for a conservation plan for avian biodiversity in the region, which was one of the conditions put forth by the Union environment ministry, without which the MTHL would have been denied the mandatory environmental clearance (EC) needed for work to take off. Environmentalists’ main objection to the MTHL has been its direct passage through the Sewri-Mahul mudflats, which provide a habitat for as much as 15% of the near-threatened lesser flamingo (Phoeniconaias minor) in South Asia. In its preliminary assessment, the BNHS recommended that this section be re-routed, but the suggestion was not accepted by the state government.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/bombay-natural-history-society-to-radio-tag-flamingoes-in-mumbai-for-the-first-time-101639659586607.html
16-12-2021||Mumbai||Navi Mumbai civic body, Turbhe MIDC police raid clinic of quack, arrest him||Acting on a complaint by Maharashtra Council of Indian Medicine, the health department of Navi Mumbai Municipal Corporation and Turbhe MIDC police raided the clinic of a quack in Turbhe Store and arrested him.The accused arrested has been identified as BR Yadav (62), who had been practicing now for close to 30 years.It is allowed for a person to practice in rural areas where there are no doctors in the vicinity of 10km if the person has an experience of working under any doctor for not less than five years.“The council issues a letter to the person permitting to practice but only in rural areas with no doctor in the vicinity. He is allowed to only give primary care. The accused had such a letter issued by the council in 1991, when Turbhe was a rural area. But in 1995, the corporation came into existence and Turbhe was no more a rural area and yet he continued the practice,” Kailas Gaikwad, Turbhe Urban Health Primary Centre head, said.In 2010 too, NMMC had raided and the accused was caught under Maharashtra Medical Practioners Act and was acquitted in 2020.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/navi-mumbai-civic-body-turbhe-midc-police-raid-clinic-of-quack-arrest-him-101639658626831.html
16-12-2021||Mumbai||HC asks court to defer defamation case against Rahul Gandhi till Jan 25||Mumbai The Bombay high court (HC) on Thursday adjourned hearing of the petition filed by Congress leader Rahul Gandhi for quashing of the defamation case before the metropolitan magistrate court at Girgaum till January 18, and directed the magistrate court to defer proceedings before it till January 25. Gandhi has challenged the process issued against him stating that only a defamed person could have initiated defamation proceedings against him. The complainant has, however, referred to section 199 of the Code of Criminal Procedure (CrPC) and stated that it permits any aggrieved person to file a defamation suit and hence the magistrate had not erred in issuing summons to Gandhi based on his complaint. The single bench of justice Sandeep Shinde which is hearing the petition filed by Gandhi wherein he has sought quashing of the order of the Girgaum magistrate court, which has asked him to appear in person in a defamation complaint filed by a local politician was informed by advocate Nitin Pradhan for the complainant Mahesh Shrishrimal that he needed some time and hence the hearing should be adjourned. Based on the defamation complaint of Shrishrimal, the Girgaum magistrate court had initiated criminal proceedings against Gandhi on August 28, 2019. Gandhi was issued a summons on July 12, 2021 asking him to appear in person before the magistrate in connection with the complaint. Pursuant to the summons, Gandhi had approached the HC. According to the complaint, during a rally held in Rajasthan in September 2018, Gandhi had made a defamatory statement against Prime Minister Narendra Modi, which had resulted in various news channels and social media platforms trolling the PM. The complaint also stated that Gandhi had purportedly posted a tweet and given a statement, wherein he referred to the PM as “commander in thief”, which was defamatory and made “direct allegation of theft against BJP members and Indian citizens connected to Modi.” In the previous hearing on November 17, Gandhi’s advocate Kushal Mor had submitted that the complaint was vexatious, baseless, unmeritorious and misconceived. Gandhi’s petition had stated that the complaint was nothing but a vehicle to drive the complainant’s own political agenda to tarnish the public image of the petitioner. The court had asked the complainant to file an affidavit in response to the petition. In the affidavit filed on December 13, Shrishrimal has stated that as per CrPC any “aggrieved person” can initiate criminal prosecution for defamation and as Gandhi had an alternate remedy to approach the sessions court and appeal against the magistrate court order, the HC should not allow Gandhi’s petition. The affidavit further states that as he is a BJP functionary, the defamatory words used by Gandhi has lowered his esteem in the eyes of the society and hence he has the right to initiate criminal defamation proceedings. The HC while adjourning hearing of the petition to January 18, has directed the magistrate to defer defamation proceedings against Gandhi till January 25.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/hc-asks-court-to-defer-defamation-case-against-rahul-gandhi-till-jan-25-101639656168237.html
16-12-2021||Mumbai||Daily testing for Covid in Thane continues to be less than 2K||More than a week after the Thane municipal commissioner, Dr Vipin Sharma, claimed that testing would increase in the city, the number of tests conducted daily still continues to remain the same, at less than 2,000, across Thane Municipal Corporation (TMC) limits.The civic officials claimed that reluctance among those vaccinated to get tested continues. TMC now plans to reach out to market areas and common places to test shopkeepers and vendors.Among the tests carried out, around 700 are RT-PCR while 1,400-1,500 are rapid antigen tests.On December 9, TMC had announced that they’d increase the number of antigen and RT-PCR tests in the city. Amidst the new variant Omicron’s increasing cases, a special meeting was held to ensure strict testing would be initiated at bus depots. However, the number of daily tests continues to be less than 2,000.“Now that many are fully vaccinated, especially those travelling on a regular basis, they seem to be reluctant to get tested. As they do not have any symptoms, the hesitancy to get tested continues. Hence, we have planned to test shopkeepers and provide facilities at common areas near market places and railway stations. We had a similar set up earlier and have spoken to the respective ward officers to follow the same procedures as earlier in order to keep a tab on the number of cases,” said Sandeep Malvi, additional commissioner, TMC.In mid-April, when the second wave was at its peak, the city conducted more than 10,000 tests daily but as the number of daily cases saw a decline, the tests also became fewer in the city. As the daily positivity rate continues to be less than 1.5%, Thane had maintained the same testing figures until now.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/daily-testing-for-covid-in-thane-continues-to-be-less-than-2k-101639656107641.html
16-12-2021||Mumbai||Ample proof available of the dual identities of Sameer Wankhede: Nawab Malik to HC||Mumbai Ample proof is available of the dual identities adopted by Dnyandev Wankhede and his son Sameer Wankhede, Mumbai zonal director of the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) for their personal benefit, NCP leader Nawab Malik has claimed in his affidavit in reply to the defamation suit filed by Dnyandev Wankhede before the Bombay high court. Malik, in his affidavit, stated that the tweets were intended to only expose the illegalities committed by Sameer Wankhede while securing a job through the reserved category quota and misusing his position in the NCB. The affidavit added that there was no malice intended on his part while making revelations on social media and the suit was intended to curtail his fundamental right to freedom of speech and expression. Referring to the maintainability of the suit, Malik has stated that the reliefs sought against him by Dnyandev Wankhede are only intended to suppress the facts which he has been exposing about Sameer Wankhede. The affidavit states that the reliefs sought cannot be granted as they are intended to benefit persons who are not party to the suit. “All the material/evidence published by me shows the illegal manner in which Mr Sameer Wankhede has acquired his job and also the illegalities in the manner in which he has discharged his duties as a public official,” the affidavit states. Stating that the claim by Dnyandev Wankhede in the suit that he (Malik) had started the slur campaign against Sameer Wankhede after his son-in-law Sameer Khan was arrested by the NCB and released after being kept behind bars for almost eight months was false, he added that he has been questioning the working of NCB even before his son-in-law was arrested. Malik has stated that he had made statements as the national spokesperson of the NCP in November 2020 against the action being taken by NCB against consumers of drugs and not tracking down and arresting drug traffickers/suppliers for the sake of publicity. With regards to the posting of the birth certificate, school leaving certificates and nikahnama of Sameer Wankhede online, Malik’s affidavit states, “This material was published by me after reasonably verifying the truth of the same and believing the same to be true. The material available on record shows that Mr Sameer Wankhede is leading a dual life i.e. as a Muslim and as a Hindu. He has illegally obtained his job under ‘Scheduled Caste’ (SC) category thereby depriving a genuine SC candidate of the opportunity of employment and livelihood by suppressing that he was born a Muslim.” The affidavit while referring to the illegalities committed by Sameer Wankhede in the course of his duty as NCB zonal director states that during raids the officer has given a complete go by to the procedure and indulged in activities which are likely to compromise the investigations carried out under his charge. The affidavit states that he (Malik) has posted evidence to show that the pancha Mr Fletcher Patel called by Wankhede during raids was known to him and his family. The affidavit states that the revelation by Prabhakar Sail, a witness in the Aryan Khan case wherein he has alleged that Wankhede had made him sign 10 blank pages as a panch witness shows that Sameer Wankhede has been resorting to illegal procedures in the course of discharging his duties. Malik has further reiterated his stand that both Dnyandev Wankhede and his son have been involved in illegal activities by referring to the liquor licence issued to a hotel in Vashi in the name of Sameer Wankhede in 1997. The affidavit states that the licence was issued to Sameer by the excise department even though he was only 17 years old at the time and Dnyandev was also working as an officer in the said department. The affidavit states that the revelations made by him (Malik) regarding the illegalities by Sameer Wankhede has helped the appropriate agencies/authorities to initiate appropriate steps against the erring public servant. The affidavit states that the transfer of six cases being investigated by Sameer to NCB vigilance was an example of the effect of his revelations. The defamation suit by Dnyandev Wankhede is expected to come up for rehearing on his interim plea before a single judge bench in due course.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/ample-proof-available-of-the-dual-identities-of-sameer-wankhede-nawab-malik-to-hc-101639655806392.html
16-12-2021||Mumbai||Can’t cancel FIR just because cops invoked wrong IPC sections: Bombay high court||MUMBAI: A First Information Report (FIR) cannot be cancelled on the ground that the police invoked a wrong penal provision, the Bombay high court said on Wednesday, rejecting a petition filed by a Mumbai resident to cancel an extortion case registered against him.The petition filed by Hemant Banker, father of businessman Rupin Banker, contended that the FIR on charges of extortion registered against him by Worli police in August 2020 on a complaint of a builder Kailash Agarwal was liable to be cancelled since the allegation did not involve the delivery of property, an essential ingredient for the offence of extortion under Section 387 of the Indian Penal Code (IPC).The division bench of justices Nitin Jamdar and Sarang Kotwal ruled that “wrong application of a particular section cannot be the sole ground for quashing of the FIR”, holding that a case can be quashed only “in the eventuality that absolutely no cognisable offence is made out in the FIR”.In this case, the high court ruled, the accusation against Hemant Banker disclosed the offence of criminal intimidation since a person who identified himself as Vijay Shetty allegedly threatened the builder.“Therefore, it cannot be said that no cognizable offence is made out. Therefore, the FIR cannot be quashed,” said the court.The builder, Agarwal, alleged that he had some financial transactions with Rupin Banker who is later claimed to have used forged signatures to withdraw about Rs.35 crore from his account with Dubai branch of the Bank of Baroda, and that he lodged a police complaint in Dubai in this case. The builder further alleged that he received threat calls if he pursued the police case||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/cant-cancel-fir-just-because-cops-invoked-wrong-ipc-sections-bombay-high-court-101639655026132.html
16-12-2021||Mumbai||Rehab centre in Thane sees more patients in 25-45 yrs age group recovered from Covid visiting it||Since its inception more than a year ago, more than 2,000 patients have been treated at the post-Covid care and rehabilitation centre in Thane till now.The second wave subsided months ago. However, people affected in this wave continue to deal with Covid-related complications, claim the doctors. In the first wave, the patients who sought help were mostly between 40 years and 60 years. However, post the second wave, those between 25 years and 45 years have been mostly seen visiting the post-Covid rehabilitation centre.The main aim of this centre situated at Lodha Luxuria in Majiwada is the physical and mental well-being of those who have recovered from Covid. Most recovered patients visit for yoga sessions at the rehabilitation centre. They also focus on breathing and building one’s strength.“After the second wave, 60% of the patients who visited here were for breathlessness and hardly 2% had lung fibrosis. Moreover, there were 20% who faced severe joint pains and another 20% who required counselling. The most common issues among post-Covid difficulties were palpitation and panting. We suggest yoga, lung physiotherapy and basic exercises for the body,” said Dr Mansi Doiphode, medical officer and in-charge of the post-Covid rehabilitation centre.For a 34-year-old Kalyan resident, the joint pain had not subsided even three months after recovering from Covid. He came all the way to Thane’s post-Covid rehabilitation centre and was suggested some simple exercises and physiotherapy. On following them regularly, along with basic medications, he has noted some improvement.“We have been treating such patients with orthopaedic-related issues. Even those who recovered a few months back are facing joint pains. This could also be because of the winter and the dip in temperature. We suggest some exercises and, if needed, basic medications for them to recover. In some cases, calcium and multi-vitamin medicines have also helped them to recover,” said Dr Mahesh Mhatre, orthopaedic, post-Covid rehabilitation centre.The centre also saw senior citizens who were staying alone and who found it difficult to manage daily chores and routines on their own after recovering from Covid.“One such case was of a 65-year-old Thane resident who also had asthma and found it very difficult to cope with post-Covid breathing problems. We suggested simple exercises that could be done at home to enhance the lungs’ capacity. Only every fortnight he would visit the centre and gradually he started finding it easier to cope,” added Dr Mhatre.As the sexagenarian stayed with his spouse on the third floor of his house with no lift, daily chores and even a visit to the doctor involved climbing and descending three floors. It would leave him panting and breathless even after three months post-Covid infection. He visited the post-Covid centre and based on the breathing exercises prescribed, he has now recovered and is able to manage his daily chores without support.As the virus affects the lungs and lowers the immunity, pulmonary physiotherapy to strengthen the lungs along with regular exercises and proper diet help revive one’s body. There are designated doctors for the same who guide those visiting the centre. Moreover, many find it difficult to cope up after being in isolation for long periods. There are counsellors who help such individuals as well.“We have noticed that in many instances, people who are working from home and have tested positive for Covid have led to Covid-related anxiety. This is often because they are confined to a single room, feel lonely, and hence are vulnerable to emotional upheaval. Medication is not the only solution in such cases. Hence, we recommend some kind of physical activity to encourage the mind. Also, we have counselling sessions at least once a week,” added Doiphode.With a gradual dip in cases, a part of the centre has now been converted to a vaccination centre. Moreover, patients visit with prior appointments. The yoga and counselling sessions are currently available only on call or prior appointment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/rehab-centre-in-thane-sees-more-patients-in-25-40-yrs-age-group-recovered-from-covid-visiting-it-101639654787076.html
16-12-2021||Other||Gurugram traffic police launch one-day drive against vehicles without HSRP||The Gurugram traffic police will launch a one-day drive against vehicles operating without high security registration plate (HSRP) on Thursday. Over 600 traffic police personnel will be deployed across 103 major points in the city for the drive, officials said. Ravinder Singh Tomar, deputy commissioner of police (traffic), said that it is mandatory for vehicles to have high security number plate, and the violation carries a fine of ₹5,500. Tomar said that HSRPs have helped reduce the number of vehicle thefts and also identify stolen vehicles.“The idea is to sensitise commuters about the importance of HSRP. An in-built chip on the HSRP helps scan the vehicle’s records and the number plate also reflects better at night,” said Tomar.According to the officials, till December 14 this year, they have issued 9,348 fines for driving without HSRPs and 1,926 for driving without a number plate. On an average, around 300 cases of vehicle theft are registered in the city on a monthly basis, they said. Experts said that along with issuing fines, traffic police also need to ensure that they have an arrangement through which an offender can procure an HSRP on an immediate basis “Traffic police can provide a slip through which the offender can visit the nearest authorised outlet to get an HSRP affixed,” said Sewa Ram, associate professor and urban roads design expert at the School of Planning and Architecture, Delhi.The Gurugram traffic police had launched a similar drive against vehicles without HSRP in March 2019.
16-12-2021||Other||Gurugram reports second Covid death this month||The district on Wednesday recorded second death due to Covid-19 this month. Officials from the district health department said that a 69-year-old woman, who was not vaccinated, died at a private hospital due to Covid-related complications. The woman also suffered comorbidities such as diabetes, hypertension and chronic liver disease, the officials said, adding that she tested positive for Covid-19 on December 3. Dr Virender Yadav, chief medical officer, Gurugram, said that the woman was admitted with high fever on December 6 and during treatment she suffered sudden cardiac arrest. “The patient’s family members told us that she had liver issues so they decided not to get her vaccinated. Such decisions, however, should be avoided as there is no restriction of vaccination for chronic liver disease. We have repeatedly asked people, particularly those suffering from comorbidities, to get vaccinated as they are at higher risk,” said Yadav. On Monday, a 73-year-old woman had died due to Covid-19 at a private hospital in the district. The deceased, however, had taken both her vaccine shots but she also suffered from comorbidities. According to the health department data, there are 99 active Covid-19 cases in Gurugram, with 18 new cases reported on Wednesday. The case tally in the district now stood at 181,887, including 927 deaths. The department on Wednesday also collected 4,222 samples for Covid testing, said the officials. Dr Yadav said that the department is keeping a close watch on the situation and testing would be ramped up when the situation demands. “We have the required capacity to manage the situation,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/gurugram-reports-second-covid-death-this-month-101639653946242.html
16-12-2021||Mumbai||HC asks magistrate court to defer defamation case against Gandhi till Jan 25||The Bombay high court on Thursday adjourned the hearing of a petition filed by Congress leader Rahul Gandhi for quashing of a defamation case before the metropolitan magistrate court at Girgaum till January 18, and directed the magistrate court to defer proceedings before it till January 25. Gandhi has challenged the process issued against him, arguing that only a defamed person could have initiated defamation proceedings against him. The complainant has, however, referred to Section 199 of the Code of Criminal Procedure (CrPC) and said that it permits any aggrieved person to file a defamation suit, and hence, the magistrate didn’t err in issuing summons to Gandhi based on his complaint. The single bench of justice Sandeep Shinde that is hearing the petition filed by Gandhi wherein he has sought the quashing of the order of the Girgaum magistrate court, which has asked him to appear in person in the defamation complaint filed by a local politician, was informed by advocate Nitin Pradhan for the complainant Mahesh Shrishrimal that he needed some time, and hence the hearing should be adjourned. Also Read: Congress calls out Centre for not mentioning Indira Gandhi’s name in Vijay DiwasBased on the defamation complaint of Shrishrimal, the Girgaum magistrate court had initiated criminal proceedings against Gandhi on August 28, 2019. Gandhi was issued summons on July 12, 2021, asking him to appear in person before the magistrate in connection with the complaint. Pursuant to the summons, Gandhi had approached the high court. According to the complaint, during a rally held in Rajasthan in September 2018, Gandhi had made a defamatory statement against Prime Minister Narendra Modi, which had apparently resulted in various news channels and social media platforms trolling the PM. The complaint also said that Gandhi had purportedly posted a tweet and given a statement, wherein he referred to the prime minister as “commander in thief”, which was defamatory, and made a “direct allegation of theft against BJP members and Indian citizens connected to Modi”. In the previous hearing on November 17, Gandhi’s advocate Kushal Mor had submitted that the complaint was vexatious, baseless, not meritorious, and misconceived. Gandhi’s petition had stated that the complaint was nothing but a vehicle to drive the complainant’s own political agenda to tarnish the public image of the petitioner. The court had asked the complainant to file an affidavit in response to the petition. In the affidavit filed on December 13, Shrishrimal has stated that according to CrPC, any “aggrieved person” can initiate criminal prosecution for defamation and as Gandhi had an alternate remedy to approach the sessions court and appeal against the magistrate court order, the high court shouldn’t entertain Gandhi’s petition. The affidavit further says that since he was a BJP functionary, the defamatory words used by Gandhi had hurt his image in society, and hence, he had the right to initiate criminal defamation proceedings. The high court, while adjourning the hearing of the petition to January 18, directed the magistrate to defer defamation proceedings against Gandhi till January 25.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/hc-asks-magistrate-court-to-defer-defamation-case-against-gandhi-till-jan-25-101639653225990.html
16-12-2021||Pune||Taste of life: Keventer’s “Poona experiment” gives cheese Indian stamp of authenticity||Edward Keventer revolutionised the dairy industry in India. A pioneer in the field of agriculture and animal husbandry, especially scientific cattle breeding, nutrition, and pasteurised dairy milk, he single-handedly built the ice-cream and milkshake industry in India. Keventer was recruited by the British Government to modernise the dairy industry in India in 1889. It was his task, as the expert, to initiate the processes – known in official correspondences as “experiments”. One such experiment was to make cheese in Poona. Known as the “Poona experiment”, it served as a template to make cheese locally and commercially available in India. In 1890, the Director of Agriculture, Dr Ozanne requested Keventer to give “instructions in dairy management” to students in the Bombay Presidency. Keventer readily agreed and started his classes at Tamarind Lane, Fort, Bombay, and later at the Dairy Farm in Kirkee. During one such class, Ozanne was asked by a student why cheese was not made locally and had to be imported. Ozanne asked Keventer to take up the challenge and make “good quality” cheese in Poona. The “Poona experiment” started in 1890 and continued for almost a year. Keventer initially wanted to try making the Stilton cheese, but then opted for Cheddar instead. The principle of cheese-making depends upon the casein of milk being artificially curdled by means of rennet. A small quantity will curdle a considerable quantity of milk. The casein entangles the butter fat globules and this sinks, separating from the whey. The whey contains sugar, albumen, and a small proportion of butter fat. The curd is manipulated in various ways to produce different kinds of cheese. The Cheddar system of cheese-making is perhaps the most common. Cheese varies in quality according to the quality of the milk from which it is made. It varies in character according to the system adopted in making it. The finest soft cheeses are made from milk, which has been improved by the addition of cream. Cheese made from pure milk is called whole milk cheese. There are numerous gradations of quality between cheese of this class, and that made from skimmed or separated milk. Keventer knew that the best cheeses were made from whole milk. The milk required for making cheese had to be fairly fresh and free from abnormal odours and as clean as possible. Poona mostly relied on Sangli for the supply of fresh milk. But Keventer wanted the milk delivered to the farm within a couple of hours after milking into absolutely clean utensils. Hence buffaloes were brought to the Kirkee farm. Keventer needed special vats to curdle milk, curd coolers on which curd was exposed and ripened after it was removed from the vat; the curd mill which ground the curd into granules before salting; hoops or moulds in which curd was squeezed free of whey; the cheese press, to press the curd in the hoops. He employed local carpenters and ironsmiths to make the equipment as per his specifications. Keventer knew that he could not use animal rennet if the cheese had to be marketed to Indian customers as well. He used an extract from the berries of Withania coauglans (locally known as Paneerphool) and found that they could not only coagulate milk but also digest and mellow curd into cheese. The use of the Withania rennet removed the cause of the “Hindu objection” to cheese. But it had some disadvantages. The curd from Withania rennet never developed the same desirable texture that the curd from animal rennet did; moreover, the smell of Withania was more powerful than the characteristic odour developed in the curd by a sufficient degree of acidity. Therefore, an expert cheese-maker could not detect by his sense of smell when the curd became sufficiently acidic. The blue-white colour of cheese made from buffalo milk was not attractive and reduced the market value of cheese. This of course could be rectified by artificial colouring, which was more or less practiced in all systems of cheese-making. The unusually higher percentage of butter fat in buffalo milk gave a peculiar consistency to the ripened cheese. The curd remained somewhat granular during the ripening process and a clean slice could not be cut with a sharp knife. But the cheese manufactured at Poona varied from fair to good, none could be classed as inferior. The “Poona experiment” proved that in India milk could be coagulated and the quality of curd developed had the flavour and texture which ought to make a “high class” cheese, but the maturing of the cheese afterwards could not be regulated to give the best results. Cheese-making could only be economically practiced in those districts of India, where the day temperature for a considerable portion of the year was moderately cool and where fresh milk could be procured at a cheap rate. Keventer’s success with making cheese at Poona spread like wildfire in India in the early 1890s. The Government of Madras, with a view to carrying out the “Poona experiment” in that Presidency, addressed the Government of India in December 1894 for the purpose of securing the services of Keventer. It was found, however, that his services had been secured by the Government of the North-West Provinces and Oudh. The Government of Madras then requested Keventer to lend them a “competent man” trained by him. A year later, Mr Schulz, an assistant of Keventer, went to Madras where he tried to repeat the “Poona experiment” of making Cheddar cheese. Whether he was successful or not is not known. After Keventer left Poona for Aligarh in 1891, he started making cheese at the farm there. Anyone willing to learn cheese-making could do so at his farm. A fee of ₹10 was charged. Later, when Keventer opened a branch at Darjeeling, he started a course in cheese-making there too. He would shuttle between Aligarh and Darjeeling, and train students. Keventer’s expertise was put to use again in 1917 when the agricultural department tried to make cheese in Poona and Ahmedabad. With a better supply of milk and control of temperatures, a better quality of the cheese was achieved at both the farms. It is not known why the enterprise was not continued in Poona, but Ahmedabad did become a hub for cheese-making. In 1927, The Royal Commission on Agriculture was constituted to find ways to better the output of milk and milk products in India. Keventer was the last witness to appear before the Commission. He stated that India required cheaper and reliable milk and ghee so that they might reach the poorer classes. He recommended the breeding of cattle by the establishment of pedigree herds of India’s best breeds of cows, buffaloes, and goats, and as to make the supply of milk and ghee more reliable, food laws should be enacted to protect not only the public but also the honest dairyman. He laid much stress on teaching modern methods of handling milk, manufacturing of butter, casing the milk and sugar and cheese. Keventer’s dedication towards his art and craft was exemplary. He might be better known for the Cassata ice cream he made at his dairies or his milkshakes, but his tireless efforts benefitted millions of farmers and dairymen in India. Chinmay Damle is a research scientist and food enthusiast. He writes here on Pune’s food culture. He can be contacted at chinmay.damle@gmail.com||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/taste-of-life-keventer-s-poona-experiment-gives-cheese-indian-stamp-of-authenticity-101639651185847.html
16-12-2021||Mumbai||Watchman claims to have spotted 2 leopards outside farmhouse in Panvel||The forest department has increased patrolling near Wakadi village in Panvel after a watchman claimed to have spotted two leopards four days ago. They are also sensitising the local residents and requesting them not to roam around unnecessarily, specifically at night.In September too, two residents of Nere village in Panvel, had claimed to have spotted a leopard. The distance between both the villages is around 6km.Dnyaneshwar Sonavne, range forest officer of Panvel region, said, “The watchman who works at a farmhouse informed us that he spotted two leopards roaming outside the farmhouse on Sunday night. We are now searching for the animals in the nearby forests. The leopards were not captured by any CCTV camera in that area. Even then, we have increased patrolling and asked the local residents to be careful.”According to Sonavne, around two years ago, the CCTV cameras of an industry at Taloja MIDC (around 8km from Panvel) had captured a leopard entering its compound. The forest officials searched for it for the next one week but in vain.“We know that leopards are there in the hills of Matheran and sometimes they come out to the cities. But we have not spotted leopards in the forest of Panvel in the past several years,” Sonavne said.
16-12-2021||Patna||Smart pre-paid electric meter in every house in Bihar by 2025: Nitish Kumar||Bihar Chief Minister Nitish Kumar on Wednesday launched a scheme worth ₹12,657 crore for installation of ‘smart pre-paid electric meter’ in all households in the state by March 2025.While launching the scheme here, Kumar said once the project is completed, it would be a big achievement for the state in power sector."There is no dearth of funds for the ongoing work of installation of prepaid smart electric meters in the state. The Energy department officials are doing their job and the project will be completed by March 2025", the CM said."The installation of prepaid smart meters in all households will not only provide convenience to the consumers but will also solve the problem of wrong billing. Besides, it would also increase the revenue of power companies in the state", he said.Around three lakh smart pre-paid electric meters have already been installed in several areas, including certain parts of the state capital, Patna.The CM also inaugurated and laid the foundation stones of several projects worth ₹3,452 crore of the Energy department.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/smart-pre-paid-electric-meter-in-every-house-in-bihar-by-2025-nitish-kumar-101639645675458.html
16-12-2021||Mumbai||Forest officials wary after suspected leopard sighting in Panvel||Forest department officials have stepped up patrolling in and around Wakadi village in Panvel near Navi Mumbai after a watchman claimed to have spotted two leopards in the area last Sunday. Officials have advised residents in the area to avoid staying outdoors if not essential, especially at night. In September, two residents from Nere village in Panvel had claimed to have seen a leopard in their locality. Dnyaneshwar Sonavne, range forest officer of Panvel region, said, “The watchman, who works at a farmhouse, informed us that he spotted two leopards roaming outside the farmhouse on Sunday night. We are now searching for the animals in the nearby forests. The leopards were not spotted by CCTV cameras in that area. But we have stepped up patrolling and asked local residents to be careful.” According to Sonavne, around two years ago, CCTV cameras at an industrial site in Taloja MIDC - which is around 8km from Panvel - had captured footage of a leopard entering the compound. Forest officials searched for the animal for the next one week, but couldn’t trace it. “We know that there are leopards in the hills of Matheran, and sometimes they come to the cities. But we haven’t spotted leopards in Panvel’s forests over the past several years,” Sonavne said.
16-12-2021||Bhopal||MP woman, brother kill neighbour’s 5-year-old son after tiff with his parents||BHOPAL: A 24-year-old woman and her younger brother, 19, have been arrested in Bhopal on charges of strangling a five-year-old boy in the neighbourhood to get back at his parents after an altercation, a senior police officer said on Thursday.Police said Samreen Khan, 24, who was visiting her maternal home in Bhopal’s Zada colony, and her brother, Farzan, allegedly strangled Fardeen, 5, on Wednesday.After killing the young boy, Farzan stuffed the body in a sack and took it along in an autorickshaw to her sister’s husband’s house about 4km away in the city’s Chhola area, deputy commissioner of police (DCP), Bhopal, Sai Krishna Thota said.Also Read: 2 killed in Gujarat chemical factory fire after blast that was heard 10km away“Fardeen’s father Javed Khan, who works as a tailor, informed the police on Wednesday evening that his son Fardeen had been missing for two hours. He said a few people saw Farzan, who was taking a sack with him in an auto-rickshaw at around 2.15pm. Police checked the CCTV footage and found the claim of Javed true,” said the DCP. When Farzan was picked up for questioning, he allegedly told the police that he strangled the child with a wire and later hid the body in her Chhola area house.Samreen and Farzan were not just neighbours but distant relatives too. But they didn’t get along very well and often fought over trivial issues ranging from parking to water supply., Sai Krishna Thota saidBhopal, joint commissioner of police, Irshad Wali said, “Police are interrogating the accused because as of now we didn’t find any serious reason behind the crime. They have been booked under section 302 (murder) of IPC.” The body has been sent for autopsy.
16-12-2021||Bhopal||Muslim man arrested for impersonating a Hindu at Ujjain temple||A 32-year-old Muslim man was arrested on Wednesday for allegedly impersonating a Hindu man to enter the Mahakaleshwar temple in Madhya Pradesh’s Ujjain, police said. The accused, identified as Muhammad Yunus Mullah, who hails from Belgaum in Karnataka, visited Ujjain with a friend, a Hindu woman, on Tuesday, police said. “On Wednesday morning, Yunus and his friend attended Bhasm Aarti. Yunus was sitting in the front row and was not able to follow the rituals. Some people from the temple management raised doubts, and when they asked for his ID, he showed an Aadhaar card with the name Abhishek Dubey on it. However, after the temple management interrogated him further, he showed his real ID card. They handed him over to Mahakaal police station,” said Pallavi Shukla, city superintendent of police, Ujjain. Shukla said, “Yunus and his friend showed their real Aadhaar cards in a hotel to get a room, but the hotel management refused to give them a room and informed the police.” Also Read: 6 fully grown trees cut down on temple premises in Pune“Police didn’t take any action after checking their ID cards as two people from different religions can travel together. But he hid his identity in the temple, and so, an FIR (first information report) was registered on the complaint of the temple management,” Shukla said. Yunus was arrested and booked under Section 420 (cheating) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) for using a fake ID and for impersonation, an official from the Mahakaal police station said. Temple administrator Ganesh Dhakad said, “We found the activities of the man suspicious. He entered the temple premises by showing a wrong identity card. We handed him over to the police.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bhopal-news/muslim-man-arrested-for-impersonating-a-hindu-at-ujjain-temple-101639646025382.html
16-12-2021||Jaipur||'Will provide financial subsistence to construction workers': Rajasthan tells SC||Rajasthan government has informed the Supreme Court that its building and other Construction Workers Welfare Board, has granted financial and administrative sanction to authorities concerned for minimum wages to construction workers who are rendered idle due to prohibition on construction activity pursuant to the order of the top court in NCR region of the state of Rajasthan."That, the Building and Other Construction Workers Welfare Board, state of Rajasthan granted financial and administrative sanction to Joint Labour Commissioner, Alwar and Joint Labour Commissioner, Bharatpur for an amount to ₹50 lakhs each for payment of minimum wages to construction workers who are rendered idle due to prohibition on construction activity pursuant to the order of this court in NCR region of State of Rajasthan," Rajasthan Government said, in its affidavit."As per the Minimum Wages Act, 1948, and the notification dated 30.07. 2021 unskilled workers are to be paid rupees 252/- per day or Rs. 6552 per month, semi-skilled workers are to be paid Rs. 264/- per day or Rs. 6,864/- per month and skilled workers to be paid Rs. 276/- per day or Rs. 7176/- per month," the affidavit said.Some parts of the Alwar and Bharatpur district in the state of Rajasthan fall within the NCR region.The affidavit further stated that in Alwar, four construction entities have given details of 198 workers who are rendered idle pursuant to the curb on construction activity in the region, the details of the same are verified by the district collector and once the verification process is done these workers are to be paid minimum wages as per the directions of this Court.As per the details submitted by 13 entities, in attested Notary Public, Alwar 15 Dec 2021, Bharatpur district, engaged in construction activity, a list of 69 workers who are rendered idle due to prohibition on the construction activity, the affidavit said.The details are being verified by the office of the District Collector and completion of verification the workers are to be paid. Further, identification and verification of construction workers who are rendered idle are ongoing and once they are identified the payments are to be made to them, Rajasthan Government apprised the Court."It is respectfully submitted that the answering respondent is bound to comply with all orders and directions passed by this Court and to take all steps to comply with the directions of this Court in letter and spirit and within the time frame as directed by this Court," the affidavit said.The affidavit was filed in pursuance of the court's direction seeking an affidavit from Rajasthan and Uttar Pradesh mentioning compliance with the order directing payment of minimum wages to workers during the period of construction ban.The apex court was hearing pleas seeking immediate measures to curb pollution in the city.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jaipur-news/will-provide-financial-subsistence-to-construction-workers-rajasthan-tells-sc-101639643149069.html
16-12-2021||Pune||Pune schools reopen: Only students with consent letter allowed on premises||Schools in Maharashtra's Pune resumed offline classes for standards 1-7 from Thursday.The students are being allowed only with the consent letter of their parents."There'll be 50 per cent attendance in class, on a one child per bench basis. We're maintaining social distancing, sanitisation and thermal check," Renuka Datta, Principal of Dnyanganga English Medium school said."Both online-offline classes are taking place. Children are allowed in classes only when parents are ready to send them with consent forms," she added.Following Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation's (BMC) decision to reopen schools, all schools in Mumbai reopened yesterday, while those in Pune reopened today.On November 30, the reopening of schools for Standard 1 to 7 was postponed till December 15 in view of the Omicron variant of COVID-19 spread in parts of the world, according to the Pune Municipal Corporation.Earlier the state government had announced to reopen the schools from December 1, however, after Mumbai now Pune becomes the second municipal corporation in the state to postpone the reopening of schools.The Omicron variant (B.1.1.529), a new variant of the coronavirus, was first reported in Botswana on November 11, 2021, and appeared on November 14 in South Africa. It has been declared a variant of concern by the World Health Organisation (WHO).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pune-schools-reopen-only-students-with-consent-letter-allowed-on-premises-101639641853870.html
16-12-2021||Dehradun||‘Rehablitate 229 Van Gujjar families from Rajaji Tiger Reserve’: Uttarakhand HC||DEHRADUN: The Uttarakhand high court on Wednesday directed the state government to rehabilitate 229 families of Van Gujjars, or nomadic pastoralists, from Rajaji Tiger Reserve within one year and present a detailed report on its plans in this regard within two months. These 229 families were earlier left out of a rehabilitation plan because they were considered ineligible by the government.The division bench of chief justice RS Chauhan and justice NS Dhanik also ordered district magistrates of seven districts - US Nagar, Nainital, Dehradun, Haridwar, Tehri, Pauri and Uttarkashi - to be present in the court on January 12 to discuss claims of Van Gujjars under the Forest Rights Act (FRA).The high court was hearing a public interest litigation (PIL) filed by Delhi-based NGO Think Act Rise Foundation through its secretary Arjun Kasana in 2019 to highlight the plight of the Van Gujjars. The court earlier clubbed other petitions related to Van Gujjars in this PIL.The court also directed the state government to arrange for food and healthcare for the animals reared by Van Gujjars still living in the tiger reserve. Kasana, who appeared in person, said the PIL seeks that the administration should declare Van Gujjars as beneficiaries under FRA, converting forest land occupied by them as revenue villages, providing land rights to them under FRA and quashing petty cases registered against them. Kasana said the state government in its report to the court earlier said 1,393 families from Rajaji Tiger Reserve have been rehabilitated while 229 families were illegible for rehabilitation. “These 1,393 Van Gujjar families have been rehabilitated in Haridwar district”, he said.Kasana said there are around 10,000 Van Gujjars living in the state who are facing different problems..“The high court was not happy with the report of the state government and as such, it issued summons to district magistrates of seven districts to remain present in the court on Wednesday. They were all present virtually except Dehradun which was represented by chief development officer”, he said. On March 17, 2021, the Uttarakhand high court directed the state government to re-constitute the committee set up earlier on its orders. “Until and unless a holistic approach is taken by including the competent persons/authorities within the committee, the constitution of the committee would merely be a mirage and merely an eyewash,” the high court noted in its March order The high court first ordered the state government to set up the committee on August 17, 2020 to come up with necessary steps needed to be taken for the rehabilitation and upliftment, and the rights, which can be given to the Van Gujjars under FRA. The state government on October 1, 2020 constituted the committee with chief forest conservator, wildlife as its chairman, but the court was not satisfied with the committee. Kasana said in accordance with the March 2021 directions, the state government reconstituted the committee in June this year, with the mandate to look into the issues of Van Gujjars in the light of various laws and their rights and give its recommendations to the state government and submit a copy to the court as well.
16-12-2021||Delhi||Delhi adds 4 more cases of Omicron variant, India tally climbs to 77||Delhi health minister Satyendar Jain said on Thursday that four more cases of the Omicron variant of the coronavirus have been reported in the national capital, taking the tally to 10.Speaking to reporters, Jain said that of these 10 cases, one patient has been discharged and the remaining nine are admitted at the Lok Nayak Jai Prakash Narayan Hospital (LNJP) Hospital. “None of them is a severe case,” Jain added.The Delhi health minister added that 40 people have been admitted to the special facility of LNJP hospital which is meant for isolating and treating suspected cases of the new variant.Also Read| Arriving at Delhi airport on or after December 20? Steps to pre-book RT-PCR testJain pointed out that many international travelers are being detected with Covid -19 upon their arrival at the Indira Gandhi International Airport in Delhi."Eight such people were admitted to the hospital today (Thursday)," he further told reporters.On Tuesday, Jain said that the Omicron variant has not spread in the community till now and the situation is under control, adding the government is fully prepared to tackle any variant of Covid-19."All necessary steps are being taken to stop the spread of the new Omicron variant. The Delhi government is keeping a sharp eye on the new cases and contacts of Omicron-infected patients are being traced," he said in a statement on Tuesday.Also Read| ‘Will impose restrictions if necessary’, Kejriwal on Omicron threatThe first case of Omicron in the national capital was a 37-year-old man from Ranchi who had a travel history to South Africa, where the variant was originally detected. After testing negative for Covid-19 twice, the man was discharged on Monday.With the fresh Omicron cases reported in Delhi on Thursday, the countrywide tally has climbed to 77. The Union health ministry has extended all Covid-19 restrictions till December 31 and has instructed all states and Union Territories to screen and test passengers arriving in international flights.(With PTI inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-adds-4-more-cases-of-omicron-variant-india-tally-climbs-to-77-101639636234453.html
16-12-2021||Chandigarh||Vij says Indira could have bargained for PoK in exchange for Pakistan PoWs||Stirring a fresh controversy, Haryana home minister Anil Vij on Thursday blamed the then Prime Minister Indira Gandhi for not bargaining enough while signing the Simla Agreement with then Pakistan president Zulfikar Ali Bhutto in 1972, saying that India could have asked for Pakistan occupied Kashmir (POK) in return for the prisoners of the 1971 war. Also read: Army chief Gen MM Naravane takes over as chairman of Chiefs of Staff CommitteeVij’s statement came on a day when the nation is celebrating the golden jubilee of Vijay Diwas to commemorate India’s victory over Pakistan. Vij tweeted that the country is still bearing the burden of Indira Gandhi’s decision. “Politicians lost the army’s victory in the 1971 war at the Simla Agreement. We could have asked for PoK in return for the 93,000 PoWs (prisoners of war), but we didn’t bargain. It was a big mistake the consequences of which we are still facing,” the Haryana minister wrote in Hindi. In the Simla Agreement, signed on July 2, 1972, between Indira Gandhi and Bhutto after the 1971 war, a withdrawal of troops and exchange of PoWs were mutually agreed upon. According to the ministry of external affairs (MEA), the agreement “was a comprehensive blueprint for good neighbourly relations between India and Pakistan. Under the Simla Agreement, both countries undertook to abjure conflict and confrontation which had marred relations in the past, and to work towards the establishment of durable peace, friendship and cooperation.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/vij-says-indira-could-have-bargained-for-pok-in-exchange-for-pakistan-pows-101639638824550.html
16-12-2021||Patna||Bihar: Traders worried over ban on single-use plastic items, thermocol products||A ban on the use of single-use plastic items and thermocol products came into effect in Bihar on Wednesday, leaving traders, especially members of the CAIT (Confederation of All India Traders), worried over its impact on business.The production, distribution and sale of these products are now a punishable offence even as Bihar enters the peak season of weddings, family functions and large ceremonies, when such items are in high demand. CAIT members said the ban on single-use plastic items and thermocol products will result in huge losses for traders. They have demanded that the ban should be pushed back.The ban comes following the Union government’s decision to eliminate single-use plastic items and thermocol products from the country from July next year. In June 2018, Prime Minister Narendra Modi had made the announcement, asking the states to draw up a comprehensive action plan for elimination of single-use plastics and effective implementation of the Plastic Waste Management Rules, 2016.In August this year, the ministry of environment, forests and climate change notified the Plastic Waste Management Amendment Rules, 2021, prohibiting the manufacture, import, distribution, sale and use of multiple types single-use plastic items from July 1, 2022.“In our state, this ban has been made effective before the 2022 deadline. We need time to completely stop this trade and want the ban be implemented here in 2022,” said Kamal Nopani, the CAIT’s Bihar wing chairman. A memorandum was submitted to the forest department a couple of months ago and Bihar’s traders have made an appeal to the Centre to reconsider their request, he said.The CAIT’s Bihar chief said that the state forest department had announced its decision about the ban back in June this year. “Traders were asked to clear their stocks before the deadline. But things did not materialise. In fact, December is the season of weddings and celebrations, and so it’s also the time of business and earnings. Traders have for months been waiting for this season, “ Nopani said.Prem Kumar Gupta, a Patna-based trader who deals with plastic and thermocol items, also said the products are used mainly during weddings and celebrations. “We had to wait for the buyers. After all, wedding planners don’t purchase these materials long before the events,” he said.Aman Kumar, another trader, said business will now be hit hard due to the implementation of the ban. “After a long gap [due to the pandemic], traders were having a good time. The demand was high and income was good. But then came the ban on the trade [of single-use plastic items and thermocol products],” he said. “We should be allowed to continue business in the peak wedding season. The ban should be implemented in June 2022.”Forest minister Neeraj Kumar said traders have been requesting a push-back to the implementation of the ban. “But this decision will be taken by the government. For now, the ban should be followed,” he said.A Bihar State Pollution Control Board employee, who did not wish to be named, said the ban was announced in June, and its violation will be punishable “under the Environment Protection Act, 1986. It can either be fine of ₹1 lakh or five years of imprisonment or both”.
16-12-2021||Patna||Supporters of Bihar man who won panchayat election kill runner-up: Cop||BETTIAH: A 50-year-old man who unsuccessfully contested the panchayat elections in Bihar’s East Champaran district was allegedly killed by supporters of the man who won the panch seat, police said on Thursday.Police said the incident took place on Wednesday, a day after the results for the 10th phase of panchayat elections to Bahuwari panchayat under the Raxaul subdivision were announced.The dead man has been identified as Babul Hasan, the runner-up in the election to the panch post won by 45-year-old Emmamul Hasan (45). Chandra Prakash, sub divisional police officer (SDPO), Raxaul, said there was an altercation between the two groups over Babul Hasan’s decision to contest the election against Emmamul Hasan.“In the fit of the anger, one group led by winner hit Babul Hasan with a rod and injured him critically. He succumbed to his injuries in course of treatment at a hospital,” Chandra Prakash, an under training Indian Police Service officer (IPS) said.The incident has led to tension in the village, prompting the deployment of a police team in the village. “The situation is tense but under control,” said Chander Prakash.“We have picked up four people for interrogation in this connection,” said Prabhakar Pathak, station house officer (SHO), Palanawa.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/supporters-of-bihar-man-who-won-panchayat-election-kill-runner-up-cop-101639633664261.html
16-12-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra Omicron cases: Section 144 imposed in Mumbai till New Year’s Eve||MUMBAI: The Mumbai police said on Wednesday that prohibitory orders under the Code of Criminal Procedure’s Section 144 have been imposed in the city from December 16 to December 31 – a period covering Christmas and New Year eve – banning large gatherings as part of measures to prevent the spread of the coronavirus disease.The order to extend the prohibitory orders was issued amid mounting concerns around cases of Omicron variant of Sars-CoV-2 being reported from several parts of the country. Maharashtra accounts for the largest number of reported Omicron cases in the country, reporting 32 of the country’s 73 cases. It is followed by Rajasthan with 17 cases of the new variant, Delhi with six such infections, Kerala with five, Gujarat with four, Karnataka three, Telangana two, and one each in West Bengal, Andhra Pradesh, Chandigarh and Tamil Nadu.The notification issued by the deputy commissioner of police and executive magistrate for Greater Mumbai, Chaintanya S, will continue to be in force in Mumbai till December 31.The police order said the restrictions were necessary in view of the continued threat posed by the Omicron variant of the coronavirus, which is said to be highly infectious and capable of undergoing frequent mutations.It requires all to follow Covid-appropriate behaviour notified by the Maharashtra government while in public places in Mumbai,The notification restricts the access to shops and other establishments in the city and all public transport to only fully vaccinated persons and also restricts attendance for any programme to 50℅ of the capacity of the ground or closed premises concerned. It also provides that any event can be organised and attended by fully vaccinated persons only.The notification adds that the persons entering Maharashtra should either be fully vaccinated or shall carry negative RT-PCR test results conducted within 72 hours of their entry.Violators will be punished under Section 188 of the Indian Penal Code and other relevant penal provisions, it added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-omicron-cases-section-144-imposed-in-mumbai-till-new-year-s-eve-101639631924054.html
16-12-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab DGP selection: UPSC calls meeting on December 21||The much-awaited meeting of the Union Public Service Commission (UPSC) for the appointment of a regular Punjab director general of police (DGP) will be finally held on December 21 in New Delhi. Also read: ‘Will not contest any elections’, says BKU leader Tikait as farm protests endAccording to an official communication received by the Punjab government from the UPSC, the meeting will be held at 10.30am in the national capital for the selection of the three officers among the 10 senior Indian Police Service officers shortlisted by Punjab. The state government had sent the names of the shortlisted IPS officers on September 30, a few days after chief minister the Charanjit Singh Channi-led dispensation took over and removed 1987-batch IPS officer Dinkar Gupta as Punjab Police chief. Iqbal Preet Singh Sahota, a 1988-batch IPS officer, has been officiating as the DGP since then. Bone of contention between Channi, Sidhu From Punjab, the chief secretary will also be part of the meeting with the UPSC panel and because Sahota, himself is a contender for the post, he won’t be attending the meeting. Otherwise, the incumbent DGP is also expected to take part in the meeting with the UPSC to shortlist the candidates. After this meeting, the UPSC will select three candidates and send this panel to the Punjab government to select one from them to appoint as regular DGP. The appointment of the Punjab DGP has remained a contentious issue in poll-bound Punjab between chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi and Punjab Committee president Navjot Singh Sidhu. It is learnt that Sidhu is keen on S Chattopadhyaya taking over as the DGP. A 1986-batch IPS officer, he is the seniormost among the names sent in the panel. However, with Chattopadhyaya, who had challenged the appointment of Gupta as regular DGP during former chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh’s tenure losing the case in the Supreme Court of India, it would be interesting to see if the UPSC considers him for the post or not. Why Sidhu is opposed to acting DGP Sahota Sidhu had criticised Channi’s move to appoint Sahota as regular DGP citing that as head of the Bureau of Investigation (BoI) he had conducted a probe at the time of the Bargari sacrilege during the SAD-BJP government’s tenure in which he had termed the act of sacrilege as the handiwork of foreign handlers and two local youngsters. The main contenders for the top job are officiating DGP Sahota and 1987-batch IPS officer VK Bhawra. The other names on the list are MK Tiwari (1987 batch), Prabodh Kumar and Rohit Chaudhary (both 1988 batch), Sanjeev Kalra and Parag Jain (1989 batch) and BK Uppal (1991 batch). 
16-12-2021||Delhi||New Delhi’s air quality in ‘very poor’ zone; light rain likely in the evening||New Delhi is likely to see a partly cloudy sky and shallow fog on Thursday morning, with light rain expected in the evening, according to the India Meteorological Department’s (IMD) forecast. The Capital’s air quality was in the “very poor” zone on Thursday morning. Data from the Central Pollution Control Board showed that the hourly air quality index (AQI) at 7am was 349. On Wednesday, the average 24-hour AQI was 363. Thursday’s minimum temperature is likely to be 7 degrees Celsius, while maximum temperature is predicted to be 22 degrees Celsius. The maximum temperature on Wednesday was 22.5 degrees Celsius, a notch below normal, and the minimum was 7.8 degrees Celsius. On Wednesday, the Union ministry of earth science’s air quality monitoring centre, System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting and Research (SAFAR), said, “Shallow foggy conditions are likely to keep the AQI poor for next two days.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/new-delhi-s-air-quality-in-very-poor-zone-light-rain-likely-in-the-evening-101639623343248.html
16-12-2021||Lucknow||UP to table 2nd supplementary budget today; scheme for farmers likely||The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) Uttar Pradesh government will on Thursday table the second supplementary budget for 2021-22 and an interim budget for 2022-23, just months ahead of the assembly elections in the state.According to Hindustan Times' sister publication Livehindustan, the budget, which will be presented by Uttar Pradesh finance minister Suresh Khanna, might bring in a scheme for farmers similar to the central government’s Pradhan Mantri Kisan Samman Nidhi scheme.This is on expected lines as reported by Hindustan Times earlier. “Yes, the state government may come out with some announcements about farmers and others as it presents the second supplementary demands of grants for 2021-2022 and a vote on account for a part of 2022-23 in the state assembly,” a senior official told Hindustan Times on Wednesday.The second supplementary budget is expected to be worth ₹30 crore and necessary funds will be provided for completion of the state government’s ambitious plans including big projects, according to Livehindustan.The budget might also focus on providing several facilities to state government employees and their families including a cashless treatment facility, the Livehindustan report added.This is not the first time that the Uttar Pradesh government is presenting the supplementary and interim budget in the last session of the state assembly. Before the 2017 elections, the Samajwadi Party (SP) ruled state government presented both in the last session of the assembly.The first supplementary budget for 2021-22 worth ₹7,301 crores was presented on August 18. Several incentives were a part of this budget such as clearing dues of farmers, making Uttar Pradesh’s youths digitally proficient among others.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/up-to-table-2nd-supplementary-budget-today-scheme-for-farmers-likely-101639618028239.html
16-12-2021||Delhi||Delhiwale: A scholar on a mission||The bookish pursuits of Old Delhi scholar Abdul Sattar are as steadfast as the coronavirus pandemic. Just this morning, the venerable gentleman put on his beret cap and N95 face mask and stepped out of his home in Pahari Imli to walk to Kucha Challan, a few lanes away, where he met the computer typist in charge of typing the manuscript of his book-in-progress.“I’m compiling a collection of previously written profiles (by various authors) on the eminent personalities of Old Delhi,” says Mr Sattar, 77, sitting in his study. His sprawling house, filled with his children and his children’s children, is an amalgamation of many rooms (with a roof that, accessed by a series of staircases, shows a bird’s eye view of the Walled City). But this study is the elderly scholar’s true world. Here, he thinks, reads, writes, eats, meets visitors, and listens to old love songs at night - from a desktop computer on his writing table. Here, he sleeps as well. And here, he keeps his precious collection of ink pens collected from across the world over decades.Restrained by the pandemic, Mr Sattar has drastically reduced his outdoor excursions. His morning trip to the typist was one of the rare occasions when he permitted his frail figure to walk down the steep stairs and emerge into the mostly maskless masses of the chaotic Shahjahanabad.Already working on two other books, Mr Satttar decided to start this new project after coming across, in an Urdu Bazar bookstore, a yellowing volume on a centuries-old Sufi saint who lies buried in the Walled City. “Barely anybody remembers him today,” he says in a tone reminiscent of a college professor, although he is a retired government officer.Remarking on the urgency of his venture, Mr Sattar says, “I hope this book on Old Delhi personalities will help to keep the memories of those people alive.” After gazing for a long time upon his house cats, Laali and Silky, Mr Sattar explains that he collected archival pieces on the chosen figures for the book from old and rare Urdu volumes.He goes on to list some of the eminences who will appear. A few of these names are familiar, many aren’t. But by now, Mr Sattar has switched his talk to the other book he is working on. “Too much to be done,” he mutters, picking up the novel he has been reading these days - it’s the Urdu translation of Ahmad Ali’s classic Twilight in Delhi. With life as hectic as ever, Mr Sattar says he daily gets up at 8am and goes to sleep at 10.30pm. For now, it’s time for dinner - peas pulao.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhiwale-a-scholar-on-a-mission-101639616819214.html
16-12-2021||Dehradun||Rahul Gandhi to address rally in Dehradun today as part of 50th anniversary of 1971 war; will felicitate ex-servicemen||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi will on Thursday address a rally in Uttarakhand's capital Dehradun as part of the year-long celebration of the 50th anniversary of India's victory over Pakistan in the Bangladesh Liberation War of 1971.During the rally, Gandhi will felicitate ex-servicemen in recognition of their contribution to the country, according to an earlier statement by Uttarakhand Congress president Ganesh Godiyal.Gandhi's rally comes days after Prime Minister Narendra Modi's election event in Dehradun. PM Modi has already visited Uttarakhand thrice in recent months, and addressed a poll rally at the Parade Ground in Dehradun on December 4.According to Congress, a large number of 1971 war veterans will be present at Rahul Gandhi's rally.Also Read| 1971 was Indira Gandhi’s finest year, says Sonia GandhiOn Wednesday, Congress president Sonia Gandhi addressed the closing ceremony of the 1971 war in New Delhi and said that it was the "finest year" of then Prime Minister of India Indira Gandhi, who played a pivotal role in the war."Today, we recall Indira Gandhi with great pride. She remains an inspiration to crores of Indians for her boldness and resilience. 1971 was in many ways Indira Gandhi's finest year," Sonia Gandhi said about her late mother-in-law.The Congress president added that during the war, Indira Gandhi immediately reached out to all political parties and public figures, wrote to President and Prime Ministers, dispatched emissaries abroad, ensured USSR was with India, travelled to Western capitals, sensitised the entire world community to the cause of the people of Bangladesh, according to news agency ANI.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/dehradun-news/rahul-gandhi-to-address-rally-in-dehradun-today-will-felicitate-exservicemen-101639612736706.html
16-12-2021||Chandigarh||Man held for ‘throwing’ holy gutka into Golden Temple sarovar||A man was nabbed on Wednesday for allegedly throwing holy gutka (a handbook of Gurbani) into the sarovar (holy tank) of the Golden Temple in Amritsar. The Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (SGPC) staff members deployed in the shrine complex apprehended the man, identified as Ranbir Singh, and handed him over to police, it is learnt. Terming the incident unfortunate, SGPC president Harjinder Singh Dhami said the man who committed the “sacrilege” had shorn hair and threw the gutka sahib into the sarovar after taking it out from his pocket. The gurdwara body staff claimed to have CCTV footage of the incident. Dhami added, “I rushed to the SGPC head office in the complex to take stock of the situation. The incident did not happen all of a sudden, but it seems to be a conspiracy hatched to provoke sentiments of the Sikhs and vitiate atmosphere of Punjab.” “Gurbani teaches everyone life’s ideals. If anyone still desecrates the book, it only shows the kind of depraved mentality they have. The police and the government should expose the forces behind such incidents and stringent punishment must be given to the culprits,” the SGPC chief said. Even as several such incidents have taken place, the government has failed to act, he said. The police said they are investigating the matter by questioning the man in their custody.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/man-held-for-throwing-holy-gutka-into-golden-temple-sarovar-101639602639566.html
16-12-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab Lok Congress appoints 6 more district presidents||The Punjab Lok Congress, a new political party floated by former chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh, on Wednesday announced the appointment six more district presidents. The party named Gurdarshan Singh Brar and Gurcharan Singh Nahar as the district presidents of Barnala and Ferozepur. Sandeep Singh Bal has been made district president of Fatehgarh Sahib, Gulshan Rai Passi of Hoshiarpur, Sukhjinder Singh Chahal of Muktsar and Amjal Ali of Malerkotla, according to PLC general secretary in-charge (organisation) Kamaldeep Singh Saini. Last week, the party had appointed 10 district presidents. Amarinder, who had to resign as chief minister of the Congress government in Punjab amid a bitter tussle, had set up the new outfit after quitting the party.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-lok-congress-appoints-6-more-district-presidents-101639602459635.html
16-12-2021||Chandigarh||Review all postings, transfers of SSPs, DSPs ahead of Punjab polls: Akali Dal to ECI||The Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) on Wednesday asked the Election Commission of India (ECI) to review all postings and transfers of senior superintendents of police (SSPs) and deputy superintendents of police (DSPs) and other senior officials which it alleged were made by the Congress government with an ulterior motive of influencing the outcome of the upcoming assembly elections. The ECI team led by chief election commissioner (CEC) Sushil Chandra is on a two-day visit to Punjab to take stock of the poll arrangements in the state. In a representation to the Chandra, SAD’s two-member delegation comprising Maheshinder Singh Grewal and Daljit Singh Cheema also urged the ECI to appoint a regular director general of police (DGP) on merit basis and deploy central forces at polling booths to boost the confidence of people in the poll process. The party also demanded videography at all polling booths and asked the CEC to issue directions to the state government to stop misleading the electorate with bogus advertisements at the cost of the taxpayer’s money. “The manner in which transfers are being made with monetary concerns has put a question mark on free and fair elections,” the SAD representation read. They alleged that the Congress government was indulging in vendetta against the Akali leadership. “The officers who refuse to become party to the wrongdoings are being shunted out,” the Akali leaders said. “The law and order situation is worse as gangsters are having a field day and the sand and liquor mafia is controlling the government. Also, there should restriction on the government making bogus announcements to influence the voters,” they added. The ECI team held a meeting with the deputy commissioners and the district police chiefs after meeting the representatives of political parties.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/review-all-postings-transfers-of-ssps-dsps-ahead-of-punjab-polls-akali-dal-to-eci-101639602279647.html
16-12-2021||Chandigarh||J&K: Accommodation for female BSF personnel inaugurated||The Border Security Force’s (BSF’s) Jammu frontier IG, DK Boora, on Wednesday inaugurated Mahila Jawan barrack and other residential infrastructure on the Indo-Pak International Border. “In continuation to its efforts to provide comfortable and modern infrastructure on the International Border, BSF Jammu frontier IG DK Boora accompanied by DIG Surjit Singh inaugurated the Mahila Jawan barrack, SO’s barrack and cook house-cum-dining hall at the border outposts in RS Pura sector of Jammu,” said a BSF spokesperson. Boora said that BSF Jammu was committed to providing comfortable infrastructure to its personnel on BOPs and these building/structure were constructed within the given time frame. “These infrastructures have been constructed under a scheme of the ministry of home affairs for bringing all border outposts in accordance as per the guidelines of composite BOPs. This will enhance the satisfaction and proper comfort of the BSF troops who are performing arduous and tough duty on the border,” said the IG. DIG Jammu sector Surjit Singh was instrumental in timely completion of these infrastructure as per the quality standards prescribed under government guidelines, the spokesperson said. Plaint filed against fraudsters for offering fake helicopter tickets to Vaishno Devi pilgrimsChief executive officer of Shri Mata Vaishno Devi Shrine Board, Ramesh Kumar, on Wednesday reviewed the helicopter operations for the shrine. “Some unscrupulous elements are illegally offering helicopter tickets from Katra-Sanjichhat-Katra through their websites/travel portals/travel agencies,” said Kumar. Taking a serious note of the false, frivolous and unlawful bookings, Kumar said the matter regarding fleecing of pilgrims has already been taken up with the crime branch and cyber branch of J&K Police. The CEO said they have not authorised any agent, agency or person to use the shrine board’s name to sell or undertake online bookings for any services. All online services offered by the shrine board are through the www.maavaishnodevi.org and MATA VAISHNO DEVI APP only, he added. Jammu college renamed after Padma SachdevGovernment PG College for Women at Gandhi Nagar was on Wednesday renamed as Padma Shri Padma Sachdev Government PG College for Women, Gandhi Nagar, here at a ceremony organised in collaboration with district administration. The chief guest on the occasion was Ashutosh Sharma and the guest of honour was Chander Mohan Gupta, Jammu mayor. Prof Sangita Nagari, principal, spoke about the achievements of Padma Sachdev right from her childhood towards her becoming a legend through her literary ramble. J&K sees 147 new Covid casesJ&K on Wednesday recorded 147 new Covid cases, taking the infection tally to 3,39,271 while three more deaths pushed the death toll to 4,503. Srinagar district recorded the highest of 47 cases followed by 20 in Jammu. There are 1,446 active cases in the UT, while the recoveries reached 3,33,322.J&K to roll out trilingual land passbooksJ&K chief secretary Arun Kumar Mehta directed the revenue department to roll out trilingual land passbooks as a measure to fill the information vacuum and promote people’s ease of access to the revenue record. The first-of-its-kind land passbook will be issued in Urdu, English, and Hindi languages. Under the Digital India Land Record Modernization Programme (DILRMP), the revenue department has scanned voluminous revenue records and placed them in the public domain under the ‘Apni Zameen Apni Nigrani’ for people’s scrutiny. Panchayat delegation submits charter of demands to J&K LGA five-member delegation of Kashmir unit of All Jammu and Kashmir Panchayat Conference (AJKPC) on Wednesday met lieutenant governor Manoj Sinha at Raj Bhawan and submitted a 19-point charter of demands pertaining to panchayati raj institutions (PRIs) in Jammu and Kashmir. Led by UT president of AJKPC Anil Sharma, the delegation urged the LG for early resolution of their issues, including financial empowerment of panchayats and adequate security to PRI members in vulnerable parts of J&K. “It is a long-pending demand of elected PRI members of J&K that on the pattern of MPLAD fund and MLA constituency development fund, panchayats may also be financially empowered and panchayat development fund be constituted with annual earmarking of ₹25 lakh for the development of panchayat halqa through gram sabha,” Sharma told mediapersons after submitting the memorandum.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/jk-accommodation-for-female-bsf-personnel-inaugurated-101639602039626.html
16-12-2021||Chandigarh||Sukhbir Badal dares Punjab deputy CM Sukhjinder Randhawa in his bastion Dera Baba Nanak||Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) president Sukhbir Singh Badal on Wednesday dared Punjab deputy chief minister Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa on his home turf Dera Baba Nanak, saying he will face a crushing defeat at the hands of their party candidate from the constituency. Addressing a rally here in support of party candidate Ravi Karan Singh Kahlon, Sukhbir said Randhawa will be booked “for all his wrong deeds” once they form government in Punjab. “The police officials party to his illegal acts will also be taken to the task,” he added.The next SAD-BSP alliance government, he said, will review and scrap all anti-people decisions taken by the Congress government in its last three months in office, including those aimed at enriching their leaders and their kith and kin. “The gathering of 2 lakh people at Moga has started the countdown of the scam-ridden Congress government. It is just a matter of time. The government has just 360 hours left before imposition of the model code of conduct,” he said. The SAD president said that CM Charanjit Singh Channi has realised that people are fed up with the misrule of Congress government. “He has finally given up knowing that he cannot implement even one of the countless announcements he has made. Also, he will have to suffer the ignominy of not even being considered as the CM candidate of the Congress,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/sukhbir-badal-dares-punjab-deputy-cm-sukhjinder-randhawa-in-his-bastion-dera-baba-nanak-101639601919631.html
16-12-2021||Chandigarh||Denied Akali Dal ticket, Punjab deputy CM Sukhjinder Randhawa’s brother rejoins Congress||Denied Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) ticket from the Dera Baba Nanak constituency for the upcoming Punjab assembly elections, deputy chief minister Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa’s elder brother Inderjit Singh Randhawa on Wednesday rejoined the ruling Congress.Inderjit Randhawa, who had joined the SAD in October 2017, was inducted into the Congress in the presence of chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi and other cabinet ministers in Chandigarh.Besides the CM and Sukhjinder Randhawa, ministers Brahm Mohindra, Manpreet Singh Badal, Tript Rajinder Singh Bajwa, Sukhbinder Singh Sarkaria, Randeep Singh Nabha and Amarinder Singh Raja Warring were present on the occasion. Speaking over phone, Inderjit Randhawa said, “My father Santokh Singh Randhawa was a minister in the Congress government. I served as a special invitee of Punjab Pradesh Congress Committee. This is my homecoming and we will fight the upcoming polls together.” He was a member of the SAD political affairs committee (PAC).After senior Akali leader and former minister Sucha Singh Langah was excommunicated by the Akal Takht due to row over a sleazy video involving him, Inderjit was eying party ticket to contest against his own brother. He was quite active in the constituency and organised gatherings in support of the SAD which allotted ticket to Ravikaran Singh Kahlon, son of former assembly speaker Nirmal Singh Kahlon. He had even declared to contest from the segment as an independent candidate but he was brought back to the Congress fold by his minister brother. His entry into the ruling party came on the day when SAD president Sukhbir Singh Badal addressed a public gathering and held a roadshow in Dera Baba Nanak for the party candidate.
16-12-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana: Robbers rain bullets on liquor firm owner, staffer; snatch ₹77,000||In a daring attack, two motorcycle-borne men rained bullets on a liquor firm owner and his employee, before fleeing with ₹77,000 in cash in Bhammipura village, Hathur, on Tuesday night.At least six bullets hit the Mahindra Bolero of the liquor firm owner, Deepak Kumar Loomba, who, along with his employee, had a miraculous escape.On being informed, the Hathur police lodged an FIR against the unidentified accused and initiated investigation.Loomba, a resident of Jagraon, said that he and his employee were collecting cash from liquor vends. When they reached Bhammipura village, two masked men on a motorcycle, who were already present at the spot, opened fire at them.Loomba alleged that the robbers fired at least 10 bullets targeting them and six of these hit his SUV. As they cowered inside the car to save themselves, the robbers snatched the bag containing cash from it and escaped.Inspector Jatinder Singh, station house officer (SHO), Hathur police station, said it appeared that the robbers were aware about the routine of the liquor vend employees and were lying in wait to attack.He added that the police were scanning the CCTV cameras installed in the area to identify the robbers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhianarobbers-rain-bullets-on-liquor-firm-owner-staffer-snatch-rs-77000-101639601085281.html
16-12-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana grocer robbed of ₹80,000 at gunpoint||In yet another broad daylight robbery in the city, four men on two motorcycles robbed a grocery shop owner of ₹80,000 at gunpoint near Braille Bhawan on Chandigarh Road on Wednesday afternoon. The victim, Rinku Gupta, 45, of Gurbagh Colony, Jeevan Nagar, stated that he ran a grocery shop in Jeevan Nagar. On Wednesday afternoon, he was going to Kesarganj Mandi, a wholesale market of grocery items. As he reached near Braille Bhawan on Chandigarh Road, four masked men, riding two motorcycles, intercepted him. The accused told him to hand over all the money he was possessing. When he resisted, they thrashed him and pointed a pistol at his chest. Threatening to kill him, the robbers snatched his cash from his pocket.Before he could react, the accused fled towards Samrala Chowk, following which Gupta informed the police.Inspector Sukhjit Singh, SHO at Focal Point police station, said according to Gupta, the accused were riding motorcycles without number plates. Police are scanning CCTV cameras for clues to identify the accused.This is the third such incident in the past five days.On December 10, six masked men assaulted an industrialist and snatched his bag containing ₹9.5 lakh and two Apple iPhones outside his factory at RK Road near Cheema Chowk. Later that day, three men robbed a factory worker of ₹3 lakh in Kanganwal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-grocer-robbed-of-80-000-at-gunpoint-101639601083613.html
16-12-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana: Govt nurses to go on indefinite strike from today||Health services at government hospitals and community health centres across the district are expected to be affected as over 200 nurses from the Punjab Nurses Association, Ludhiana, have decided to go on an indefinite strike from Thursday to register their protest against the state government. They are demanding pay parity, nurse care allowance and nursing officer rank.Paramjit Kaur, press secretary of the association, said that they have handed over a memorandum with the civil surgeon as well as the senior medical officer of the civil hospital, informing them about the strike.Kaur said that during the strike, emergency services will remain shut and all staff nurses from civil hospital, primary health centres, community health centres and sub-divisional hospitals will participate.Kaur said that the decision to go on strike has been taken by the Joint Action Nursing Committee after the government failed to issue the notification to fulfil the demands of the association which were presented at a meeting on Tuesday.Apart from nurses, the block development and panchayat officers have also started a strike from Wednesday, demanding proper pay structure. BDPO Rupinder Kaur, district president, said that they are on strike for an indefinite period till the government fulfils their demands.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhianagovt-nurses-to-go-on-indefinite-strike-from-today-101639601082515.html
16-12-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab constable recruitment: Heights of rejected candidates to be remeasured||Following directions of the Punjab and Haryana high court on the plea of 159 aspiring constables who were rejected on the basis of their height in 2016, the police department will once again conduct their test on December 17. The police had in 2016 invited applications against 4,915 vacancies in district police and 2,501 in the Punjab Armed Police cadre. Some of the candidates were rejected during the process over height. Alleging discrepancies, some of the rejected aspirants had moved court. The HC, disposing of the petitions, ordered the police department to remeasure the height of the candidates.Following the court orders, the director general of police has ordered the recruitment panel to remeasure the height of the candidates.The petitioners stated that the recruitment process was biased, as the department had rejected many of the candidates on the basis of height, despite them meeting the minimum requirement. The candidates added that they had got their height measured from government institutions and submitted the documents in the court.The petitioners have been to report at the central recruitment board, meant for constables of district and armed police, at Punjab Armed Police (PAP) complex in Jalandhar at 3pm.They have been asked to carry their identification card issued by the police department during recruitment held in 2016, proof of being a petitioner, four passport-sized pictures and an affidavit.The ongoing recruitment process of Punjab Police has also invited controversy over the unusual names included in the merit list. The names were quite unusual and made the aspirants, who were not selected for the second phase, suspect the whole process.The aspirants sought merit list with full details including- father’s name, address and marks obtained in the test and had staged protests in various districts of Punjab.
16-12-2021||Chandigarh||Auto driver nabbed with 1,200 spools of banned plastic kite string in Ludhiana||Launching their crackdown on the illegal sale of plastic kite strings ahead of the kite-flying season, the anti-narcotics cell seized 1,200 spools of the string on Wednesday.The spools were loaded in a pick-up auto, which was stopped for checking at RK Road.The auto driver, identified as Balram, alias Rinku, of New Madhopuri, was arrested and on his information, police booked another accused, Varun, alias Nishu, of Shivaji Nagar.Inspector Rajesh Sharma, in-charge, anti-narcotic cell, said they had set up a checkpoint at RK Road following a tip-off. There they signalled a pick-up auto to stop for checking. On searching the vehicle, they recovered 1,200 spools of plastic kite string from 25 cartons. A case under Sections 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant) and 336 (act endangering life or personal safety of others) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) was lodged against the accused.During questioning, Balram stated that Varun brought the plastic kite string from Delhi through road, following which police booked him too.The inspector added that Balram revealed that some traders had been buying the banned string from Delhi and selling it among kite lovers. He claimed that Varun had sent him to bring the cartons from Cheema Chowk.The police official added that the commissioner of police had already banned the storage and sale of plastic kite string under Section 144 of the CrPC, as it was dangerous for humans as well as animals.On November 13, the Division Number 3 police had recovered 1,795 spools of plastic kite string from a pick-up auto, but the driver had managed to escape from the spot.Earlier, in January, Jasvir Singh, 28, of Gobindpura village, had died after his throat was slit by a plastic kite string. The victim was on his way with a cousin on a motorcycle when the mishap took place.The Khanna police had lodged a case under Sections 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant) and 304-A (causing death due to negligence) of the IPC against unidentified accused back then.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/auto-driver-nabbed-with-1-200-spools-of-banned-plastic-kite-string-in-ludhiana-101639601079667.html
16-12-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana: Two women make off with retired teacher’s ₹50,000||Two unidentified women stole ₹50,000 in cash from the bag of a retired teacher, minutes after she withdrew the money from a bank at Lala Lajpat Rai Road on Wednesday.The victim, Sudarshna Devi Verma, 60, of Mohalla Senchran, Jagraon, told the police that she visited State Bank of India on Lala Lajpat Rai Road to withdraw money. When she returned home, she was shocked to find the cash missing from her handbag.She immediately sounded the police, who scanned CCTV cameras near the bank and found two women stealing the cash from the victim’s bag.Assistant sub-inspector (ASI) Parminder Kaur, who is investigating the case, said the accused targeted the elderly woman in the market when she was returning home. “The thieves have been captured in CCTV cameras while fleeing in a three-wheeler after stealing cash from the victim’s handbag,” she said, adding that a case had been registered at the City Jagraon station and the accused will be arrested soon.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhianatwo-women-make-off-with-retired-teacher-s-50000-101639601021827.html
16-12-2021||Chandigarh||Finally, farmers’ dharna lifted from Adani Group’s dry port||The year-long dharna in Kila Raipur, which caused Adani Logistics Services, a subsidiary of the Adani Group, to shut its inland container depot (ICD), or dry port, was lifted on Wednesday. Nearly 500 employees had lost their jobs after the ICD was shut down in August due to the farmers’ dharna at the entrance of the facility.A massive rally was held at Kila Raipur before culmination of the protest, where Kalyan Singh Sandhu, general secretary of Jamhoori Kisan Sabha, Punjab, who had led the year-long agitation here, was given a grand reception. Protesters also paid homage to Mohinder Kaur, 70, who had died at the dharna site. Besides, tributes were paid to all farmers, who died during the protests at Singhu and Tikri borders.Harnek Singh Gujjarwal, SKM member and district secretary, Shaheed Bhagat Singh Naujawan Sabha, Punjab, said, “Since the day Adani left, we had been demanding that instead of lending the logistics park to any private company, the government should take its control and reinstate the employees to generate employment in the area.”The Adani Group had set up the depot in 2017 over 80 acres to facilitate the industries in Ludhiana by providing them cargo services through rail and road.In January, it became the target of SKM, when activists of farmer organisations placed tractors and trolleys in front of its gate and started an indefinite protest to oppose the three farm laws.This obstructed the movement of goods, completely halting operations of the ICD.An employee said the company was incurring a daily loss of ₹50 crore due to the closure of the depot: “The government incurred a loss to the exchequer in the form of GST, customs duties and other taxes to the tune of ₹700 crore and an overall economic impact of around ₹7,000 crore.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/finally-farmers-dharna-lifted-from-adani-group-s-dry-port-101639601020694.html
16-12-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana: Toll charges hiked, farmers refuse to lift dharna from Ladhowal toll plaza||Miffed over the hiked toll charges, activists of the Bhartiya Kisan Union (BKU-Kadian) and Kirti Kisan Union refused to call off their ongoing anti-farm law protest at the Ladhowal Toll Plaza on Wednesday.The unions also decided to keep all toll plazas across the state shut until further decision is taken following a meeting of 32 farmer organisations on December 17.Before it was shut due to the farmers’ protest, the National Highway Authority of India was earning an average of ₹50 lakh daily from Ladhowal toll plaza alone, translating to a loss of over ₹200 crore during the over 14-month-long protest.Earlier, BKU activists had decided to end the protest on December 15, and as per schedule, a Sukhmani Sahib path was organised for its culmination.In the morning, activists gathered at the protest site were asked to clear the toll passages and leave the venue after completion of the prayers.As such, toll plaza employees had also begun cleaning the toll booths and the revised rate list was set up.Meanwhile, Harmeet Singh Kadian, president, BKU-Kadian, and Santokh Singh Sekhon and members of the Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM) joined the gathering.As the prayers concluded, Kadian announced that the dharna at Ladhowal and other toll plazas across the state will continue in protest against the revision of toll rates.“We have noticed that the toll rates have increased on all toll plazas across the state. This will not be tolerated as the government is penalising the people for no fault. At Ladhowal toll plaza, all monthly passes have been revoked and people have been asked to register these again. These are draconian measures and completely unconstitutional. We have decided that toll plazas across the state will remain shut and further action will be taken following the meeting between SKM members on December 17,” said Kadian. Sekhon said the rates had been revised from 125 to 135 for single journey and from 185 to 200 for return journey. “Further, the earlier monthly passes have been scrapped and people living in Phillaur and Ludhiana will have to visit to get the new passes, which is sheer harassment,” he added. He said people will also have to pay toll first at Ladhowal and then at Southern Bypass, which was merely 5km away. Later, Virender Singh, project director, NHAI, visited the venue with other NHAI officials. He had a discussion with the BKU members, which remained inconclusive.He explained that the prices had not been increased, rather adjusted as per the wholesale price index (WPI) and advertisement in this regard was also published in leading daily newspapers in September. He said farmers had raised certain issues. “We have tried to convince them. We hope that the matter will resolve soon and the toll plaza operations will resume,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhianatoll-charges-hiked-farmers-refuse-to-lift-dharna-from-ladhowal-toll-plaza-101639601019368.html
16-12-2021||Chandigarh||Gulmarg freezes at -8.6°C; Kashmir to see white Christmas||Kashmir recorded the coldest night of the season with mercury dropping to a low of -8.6°C in the ski resort of Gulmarg on Wednesday amid forecast of snowfall on Christmas Eve.There was no snow or rain anywhere during the night despite such predictions by the meteorological department. “A western disturbance was over the region but it was very weak and did not bring any precipitation,” said an official of Srinagar’s MeT centre. He said the night saw some drastic fall in temperatures as the sky remained clear. J&K and Ladakh director of meteorological department Sonam Lotus said the weather will remain dry till December 23. “We expect further fall in minimum temperature by 2-4 degrees in J&K and 4-6 in Ladakh region in coming days,” he said.He expected snow on December 25. “As of now, we will have a white Christmas in both UTs,” he said. Nights continued to record sub-zero temperatures in Kashmir for the 11th day and most of the weather stations witnessed a further drop last night. Srinagar recorded a minimum temperature of -3.9 degrees Celsius — around three notches below normal and lowest this season so far. In south Kashmir, the mountain resort of Pahalgam recorded a night temperature of -6.4°C. It was -5.5 °C in Konibal, - 3.8 °C in Kupwara, and -4. 2°C in Qazigund. Even three weather stations in Jammu — Banihal, Bhaderwah and Batote — recorded freezing temperatures of -2.5 degrees, -1.5 degrees and -0.3 degrees, respectively. In Ladakh, Dras recorded bone chilling - 15.2°C while it was – 11.6°C in Leh during the night. “In entire J&K, the minimum temperatures dropping to -5 or -6 in December is normal and is a part of winter weather in the region. It happens every year,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/gulmarg-freezes-at-8-6-c-kashmir-to-see-white-christmas-101639600599738.html
16-12-2021||Chandigarh||J&K: Absconding SPO who stole two rifles arrested in Kupwara||A Special Police Officer (SPO) and his associate who had absconded with two rifles earlier this week were arrested from Jammu and Kashmir’s Kupwara district on Wednesday, officials here said.This came hours after the police announced a reward of ₹5 lakh for anyone providing information leading to their arrest.SPO Saqib Tantray, a resident of Bohipora in Kupwara, was posted as personal security to BJP worker Abdul Rashid Zargar, who is staying at Old MLA Hostel in Kupwara.Tantray and his associate Arif Ahmad Mir were reported missing on Monday morning. During investigation, it came to light that two rifles were missing from Zargar’s residence, the officials said.“Both the SPO and his associate have been arrested and the weapons have also been recovered,” an official said.Earlier in the day, police had announced a reward of ₹5 lakh for anyone who could provide information leading to the arrest of Tantray and Mir, the officials said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/jk-absconding-spo-who-stole-two-rifles-arrested-in-kupwara-101639600419234.html
16-12-2021||Chandigarh||SAD alleges ₹1,500-cr scam in LED bulbs’ purchase in Punjab’s local bodies dept||Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) MLA and party’s trade wing president NK Sharma on Wednesday alleged irregularities to the tune of ₹1,500 crore in the purchase of 74,944 LED (light-emitting diode) bulbs, pointing out alleged collusion of the Punjab’s local bodies department and some private players. Sharma has also lodged a complaint with the state vigilance department, demanding a thorough probe into the ‘corruption’ in the project. Local bodies minister Brahm Mohindra, however, termed the allegations as “weird and lacking substance”.Addressing the media, Sharma said the purchase was initiated during the tenure of then local bodies minister Navjot Singh Sidhu and the deal was completed by his successor Brahm Mohindra. “It was for the first time in the history of the state that the government agreed to pay private players ₹1,520 crore over a period of 10 years for an investment of ₹60 crore,” Sharma said. He said if the SAD-BSP alliance forms the government in 2022, a case will be registered and recommendation for a CBI or central vigilance commission probe will be made. Releasing documents procured under the provisions of the RTI Act, Sharma gave details of the contract given to install LED lights in Patiala cluster. “The LEDs were purchased at inflated rates, putting a burden on the municipal corporations and councils across the state,” he added. “Chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi should explain if he has become a party to the case or he is initiating action into the matter,” Sharma said. He also raised illegal sand mining in Zirakpur and illegal felling of khair trees over 90 acres of land in Lalru. Reacting to Sharma’s allegations, local bodies minister Brahm Mohindra said the department has no policy of centralised purchase. “All the local civic bodies are independent entities and have their own system of making purchases,” Mohindra said, terming the allegations as weird and without substance.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/sad-alleges-1-500-cr-scam-in-led-bulbs-purchase-in-punjab-s-local-bodies-dept-101639600239295.html
16-12-2021||Chandigarh||3,309 players, 10 coaches from Punjab given ₹11.8 crore in cash prize||Punjab sports minister Pargat Singh on Wednesday gave away cash prizes worth ₹11.8 crore to 3,309 players and 10 coaches from the state for their participation in national and international sports events. In a function organised in Chandigarh, Dronacharya awardee Mahinder Singh Dhillon and Sukhdev Singh Pannu got ₹40 lakh each, badminton coach Vijaydeep Singh ₹30 lakh, weightlifting coach Sandeep Kumar ₹28 lakh, hockey coaches Avtar Singh, Gurdev Singh and Yudhwinder Singh ₹16.66 lakh each and athletics coach Jaspal Singh was given ₹16 lakh. Of the total cash prize amount, ₹9.37 crore was given to 3,309 players while 10 coaches got ₹2.43 crore. Of the players, 1,298 were given ₹4.84 crore for the year 2018-19 and 2,011 were given ₹4.49 crore for 2019-20. Pargat emphasised the need of spending 10-15 % of the national budget on the youth, especially sportspersons. The state’s sports policy was being amended, the minister said. “There is the need to train physical education teachers by coaches from South Africa. I am making attempts to bring all sports quota jobs under the sports department so that players can be trained further,” he added.Among the players, Olympian shooter Anjum Maudgil was given ₹1.12 crore, Arjuna awardee shooter Gurpreet Singh ₹61 lakh, badminton player Dhruv Kapila ₹15 lakh, fencers Jagmeet Kaur, Ina Arora and Varinder Singh, Komalpreet Shukla and Anushka ₹7 lakh, ₹6.57 lakh and ₹5.30 lakh, respectively, fencers Komalpreet Shukla, Anushka, athletes Navjit Kaur Dhillon and Kripal Singh, judoka Jasleen Singh Saini, kabaddi player Harwinder Kaur and volleyball player Ranjit Singh were given ₹5 lakh each. Hockey Olympian Sardara Singh, Olympian coach Sukhbir Singh Grewal and Arjuna awardee Athlete Madhuri Saxena were also present.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/3309-players-10-coaches-from-punjab-given-rs-11-8-crore-in-cash-prize-101639600179146.html
16-12-2021||Chandigarh||Two women detained for sloganeering in Srinagar: J&K Police||Police have detained two women in Srinagar for raising slogans after the killing of two militants at Rangreth on Monday. The mother-daughter duo from Wanbal were detained on Tuesday evening by the police. Afroza Sofi and her daughter Asiya were among the women who held protest near the encounter site. They have been shifted to the women’s police station in Rambagh. A case has been registered against them for ‘creating a law and order situation’ in the aftermath of the shootout at Rangreth.PDP chief Menhooba lashes out at admnTheir detention has drawn criticism from People’s Democratic Party president Mehbooba Mufti, who said the arrest of women marked a new low in Kashmir. “Arresting women in Kashmir marks a new low for the administration that persecutes civilians only to please their masters in Delhi. The situation is getting worse and instead of reaching out to the people, GOI is pushing them to the wall,” Mufti said while sharing a local news report of the arrest of two women.The police have not yet publicly commented on the issue.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/two-women-detained-for-sloganeering-in-srinagar-j-k-police-101639600058919.html
16-12-2021||Lucknow||67k Lucknow properties have never paid tax to LMC; recovery action in pipeline||The Lucknow Municipal Corporation (LMC) has identified around 67,000 properties that have never paid house tax to LMC despite being within the municipal limits. These establishments were identified after a special survey in all eight zones of the city.“It was a surprise when we got the data about 51,611 houses and 14,666 commercial properties never paying house tax to LMC. I have directed the tax inspectors of the zones to recover house tax from these property owners and initiate action if they don’t pay tax to LMC,” said Ashok Singh, chief tax fixation officer, LMC. “Initially, the LMC will persuade and motivate these property owners to pay their tax within the next one month after which recovery notices will be issued in accordance with LMC rules. Even then, if someone does not pay the taxes, strict action will be taken by the LMC.“If people think that they can escape paying tax to the government then they are wrong because we have advanced technology to track and trace properties, including satellite imaging and physical verification. The money from taxes is used for the civic development of the city. It is from this money that LMC constructs roads, places street lights, cleans the roads, maintains water supply, etc. So, people must pay their taxes to avail of the civic services.”Meanwhile, in a meeting of LMC tax inspectors, additional municipal commissioner Pankaj Singh has directed officials to increase tax collection by creating awareness but without any harassment of property owners. He said, “Due to the pandemic, several people are facing economic problems. That’s why LMC tax inspectors will have to be firm but polite during the recovery of taxes. They can take taxes in instalments, if required.”The additional municipal commissioner has directed zonal officers to serve notices to tax inspectors who have shown poor recovery. All the inspectors with less than 40% recovery were given show cause notices.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/67k-lucknow-properties-have-never-paid-tax-to-lmc-recovery-action-in-pipeline-101639599939066.html
16-12-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab CM Channi assures industry associations of resolving issues||Punjab chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi on Wednesday assured the representatives of various industry associations from the state of resolving their grievances.Addressing the association members in Chandigarh, Channi said that most of their demands promised during the Punjab Investors’ Summit have already been met and the remaining would also be resolved soon after getting them examined.“The issues flagged by the industry representatives are of diverse nature as they pertain to GST, pollution and power, which need to be tackled by taking the views of respective administrative secretaries,” the CM said.Taking cognisance of a racket operating in the steel market of Mandi Gobindgarh, Channi ordered the Fatehgarh Sahib senior superintendent of police (SSP) to take stern action against unscrupulous elements involved in such unethical trade practices.He also asked the Punjab State Power Corporation Ltd (PSPCL) to look into the demands of industry associations for waiver of fixed electricity charges of April and May 2020 as the industry was shut down during pandemic-induced lockdown. Deputy CM Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa and cabinet ministers Brahm Mohndra, Manpreet Singh Badal, Amarinder Singh Raja Warring and Gurkirat Singh Kotli were also present.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-cm-channi-assures-industry-associations-of-resolving-issues-101639599822656.html
16-12-2021||Chandigarh||SHO booked for murder as woman ‘drug peddler’ dies in custody||The station house officer (SHO) of Shaheed Bhagat Singh Nagar’s Sadar police station sub-inspector (SI) Avtar Singh and three unidentified people have been booked for murder after a 40-year-old woman, alleged to be a drug peddler, died in police custody on Tuesday. The victim, Jasvir Kaur of Danewal village in Hoshiarpur district, was reportedly facing more than five drug cases. After Jasvir’s death, her relatives and co-villagers staged a protest against the police. As per the FIR, Parveen Kaur, the sister-in-law of the deceased, said Jasvir was picked by SI Avtar Singh and three others, including a woman, from her house in Danewal village of Hoshiarpur district on Tuesday morning. She was later declared brought dead at a hospital. A senior police official privy to the development said the accused SI went to investigate the drug case to Danewal village even as it was not within his jurisdiction. Jasvir allegedly consumed some narcotics she possessed when police picked her. Police took her to a hospital where she was handed over to her family. A police official said it is a matter of investigation whether she died due of drug overdose or any other reason. On the unidentified accused, the police official said they will be identified once Avtar Singh is arrested. Investigating officer, inspector Harkirat Singh said investigation is underway and refused to comment further on the matter. The accused SI is already facing a disproportionate assets case probe by the Punjab vigilance bureau Hoshiarpur SSP Kulwant Singh Heer said he was on leave for two days and was not aware of the matter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/sho-booked-for-murder-as-woman-drug-peddler-dies-in-custody-101639599818918.html
16-12-2021||Chandigarh||Himachal’s debt burden rose by 14.57% in 2019-20: CAG report||Himachal Pradesh’s debt burden mounted to ₹62,212 crore in the financial year 2019-20 with a growth of 14.57% over the previous year ( ₹53,147 crore), report of the Comptroller and Auditor General (CAG) has revealed. The report tabled in the House by chief minister Jai Ram Thakur points out that the total fiscal liabilities-GSDP ratio in 2019-20 increased by 2.31% over the previous year and stood at 37.6%, which was above the target of 14th finance commission.Internal debt of the government increased to ₹39,528 crore (11.78%) during 2019-20 from ₹35,363 crore in 2018-19, says the report. The report points out that maturity profile of outstanding stock of public debt and interest of ₹ 62,234 crore (principal: ₹40,572 crore and interest: ₹21,662 crore) indicated that the annual outgo in shape of public debt repayment and interest will be approximately ₹6,207 crore in five years up to 2024-25.The fiscal deficit ( ₹5,597) crore was 3.38% of GSDP against the target as per the 14th finance commission and the FRBM Act of 3% or less during 2019-20. Primary surplus of ₹510 crore in 2018-19 turned into primary deficit of ₹1,363 crore in 2019-20. Projections made in budget/medium-term fiscal plan were not in line with the recommendations of the 14th finance commission and actuals for the year 2019-20 were significantly at variance with the targets. Revenue receipts dip to -0.67%It further states that during the given period, the state recorded negative growth (-0.67%) in revenue receipts over the previous year which was a significant reduction from 31.37% in 2015-16. “Only 33% of the revenue receipts came from the state’s own resources comprising taxes and non-taxes, while the remaining 67% was contributed by central transfers comprising the state’s share in central taxes and duties (15%) and grants-in-aid (52%). Also, total expenditure ( ₹36,362 crore) of the state increased by ₹1,869 crore (5.42%) over the year 2018-19.Revenue expenditure constituted an average of 84.4% (ranging from 78.9% to 87%) of the total expenditure during the period 2015-20.“Rate of growth of revenue expenditure has displayed fluctuating trend over the last five-year period (2015-20). The committed expenditure ranged between 68-71% of revenue expenditure, while it accounted for 65-70% of the revenue receipts,” CAG report states. Further, the capital expenditure increased by 13% ( ₹591 crore) to ₹5,174 crore over the previous year’s ₹4,583 crore and constituted 14% in total expenditure.During 2019-20, expenditure of ₹45,528 crore (84.77%) was incurred against total grants and appropriations of ₹53,708 crore. Overall savings of ₹8,179.45 crore were the net of savings ( ₹8,229.36 crore) and excess expenditure ( ₹49.91 crore) in various grants/appropriations. Further, excess expenditure of ₹9,154.31 crore for the period 2013-14 to 2018-19 and ₹49.91 crore (2019-20) required regularisation of the state legislature under Article 205 of the Constitution of India. HP fails to amend FRBM ActThe report pointed out that the state passed FRBM Act, 2005, to ensure prudence in fiscal management and fiscal stability by progressive elimination of revenue deficit. However, the FRBM has not amended as per the recommendation of the 14th finance commission.It also says that non-submission of utilisation certificates indicated lack of monitoring as regards utilisation of grants released by the departments to the grantees, and entailed risk of non-utilisation, misutilisation or diversion of funds released for various works/schemes/programmes.“A total number of 2,482 UCs of various departments amounting to ₹2,847.94 crore was pending as of March 2020. Out of total UCs, 1,083 UCs for grants of ₹1,062.58 crore pertain to the period 2009-10 to 2017-18,” revealed the report. Further, 58% of the total outstanding amount pertains to two departments panchayat raj department ( ₹1,171.90 crore or 41.15%) and urban development department ( ₹476.19 crore or 16.72%).
16-12-2021||Chandigarh||Sukhpal Khaira’s custody can’t be enhanced merely for indolence of ED: High court||Sukhpal Singh Khaira can’t be put to custody of the Enforcement Directorate (ED) merely for indolence and lethargy of the agency, the Punjab and Haryana high court has said while rejecting agency’s plea for his further custody. In the detailed order released on Wednesday, the high court bench of justice Sureshwar Thakur said that the application moved by the ED before a trial court seeking seven days’ remand of the Congress leader was only “cast in a most perfunctory and mechanical mould than in an iron cast required by the law”. It was on Tuesday that the high court had dismissed the ED plea for the custody of the Congress leader in the money laundering case. The ED arrested Khaira, a former Punjab MLA, on November 11 under provisions of the Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA). He remained in the ED custody till November 18 but the central agency sought remand for seven more days from a trial court in Mohali, which was declined. The ED had appealed against this order in the high court, claiming that Khaira’s custody was required to determine the role of various other persons and to ascertain the trail of transactions. Further, it was argued that he is still to be confronted with the voluminous evidence and that he could not be questioned on some days due to public holidays. The ED had also alleged non-cooperation from him and termed it deliberate concealment of material evidence with the intent to jeopardise the investigation. Khaira had told the high court that even prior to his arrest, he had been repeatedly summoned on 11 occasions, and during that period, 88 hours were spent by the officials with him. During the eight days in custody, only 38 questions were put to him and that only 90 minutes per day were utilised by the ED officials to interrogate him. “The afore echoings borne in the impugned order, coupled with the factum that the learned court concerned has also traversed through all the relevant records appertaining to the bank accounts and statements of all concerned, rather naturally and tenably led the/remanding court, to make a valid conclusion, that the claim for police remand, as made by the special public prosecutor concerned, was unmeritworthy,” the high court said. The bench further observed that the ED has not been able to produce any material suggestive that any of the Khaira’s arguments, carried in the impugned order, are false. “The consequence of the afore, is that the learned court concerned had tenably declined the claim (of ED) ..., as prima facie it would give a tool to the ED to unnecessarily harass the respondent-accused,” the court said, adding that the ED was given abundant opportunities to question him but it failed. The ED initiated PMLA proceedings against Khaira in connection with a 2015 FIR. A court had convicted four persons and by the same order, Khaira was summoned as “additional accused”. In December 2017, Supreme Court stayed his summoning. Khaira, who joined Congress in June, has all along maintained that these proceedings are part of a “political vendetta”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/sukhpal-khaira-s-custody-can-t-be-enhanced-merely-for-indolence-of-ed-high-court-101639599339043.html
16-12-2021||Chandigarh||HP assembly question hour: ‘Land for Mandi airport yet to be finalised’||The Himachal Pradesh government hasn’t yet finalised the site for construction of airport at Mandi or initiated the process for acquisition of private land for the proposed project, Jal Shakti minister Mahender Singh Thakur said on Wednesday. Therefore question of displacement of families does not arise at this stage, he said, while replying to a question raised by CPIM legislator from Theog Rakesh Singha. He said the exact details of families to be displaced, identification of alternative land for their rehabilitation and compensation could be worked out once the process of the acquisition of land and social impact assessment study are completed. He said the Right to Fair Compensation and Transparency in Land Acquisition, Rehabilitation and Resettlement Act, 2013 in Chapter-III, Section 10(2) has a provision for acquisition of multi-crop land in exceptional circumstances for any public purpose. However, provisions will not apply in case of projects that are linear in nature. Singha had said that the government should also protect the interest of people who would be displaced by the project and also sought to know whether the airport will be constructed by a private company or the government. Meanwhile, issuing a suo-motu statement in the House, CM Jai Ram Thakur sought support of all legislators for the project, stating that the initiative will not only boost tourism but also be beneficial for coming generation in terms of employment opportunities and better connectivity. Citing lack of better road and rail connectivity in the state, the CM said the road connectivity has improved a bit with four-lane projects, but the railway expansion is uncertain. He said there were three small airports in HP, but the airfares were on the higher side due to load penalty which deter tourists from opting flights. “The cost of air travel to Shimla, Kullu and Kangra is more than tickets to many foreign countries,” he said, adding that it was not his individual project but for the larger benefit of the state. He said as of now, only OLS survey and LIDAR survey of the airport has been conducted, report of which is positive.Jai Ram said the state government had taken up the issue with Centre and the finance commission which had sanctioned ₹ 1,000 crore for constructing Greenfield airport at Mandi. “If we are able to build the airport, it will help tap into the vast tourism potential of the state and tourists will forget Kashmir after witnessing the beautiful landscapes of Himachal,” he added. Panel to ensure 70% jobs to Himachal youth in industryThe Himachal government on Wednesday announced to form a committee of labour and employment department to ensure 70% jobs to the youth of Himachal in industrial units of the state. Doon legislator Paramjeet Singh Pammi had alleged that directives of the government were being implemented only on papers and ground reality was different. He also claimed that industrial units befooled the government and labour and employment department officials by showing fake records of jobs given to locals.Replying to the question, rural development minister Virender Kanwar said a committee will be formed to probe the issue and ensure implementation of the directive. He was replying on behalf of industry minister Bikram Singh. He said the government has issued notices to 18 industrial units for not implementing the directive of providing 70% employment to the youth of the state. “If they are found to be violating the norms, the state government will withdraw benefits provided to these units,” he added. He said it has been seen that local youth were not keen on working in textile, cement and steel industrial units. However, the Doon legislator said there were few heavy industries in the state and maximum were pharmaceutical companies.The minister also informed that as many as 1,06,749 people were employed in industrial units, including 60,127 in Baddi-Barotiwala-Nalagarh (BBN) belt.He said the legislator may give specific details of industrial units he knows were violating the norm and strict action will be taken against them.Kanwar said Himachal had notified industrial policy in 2004 in which provision of 70% employment to Himachalis was made and it had now been increased to 80% in the Industrial Policy 2019. Nalagarh legislator Lakhvinder Rana also alleged that employment norms were being violated. BJP MLA from Nagrota Arun Kumar sought the list of total industrial units functional in the state which the minister assured to provide.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/hp-assembly-question-hour-land-for-mandi-airport-yet-to-be-finalised-101639599046055.html
16-12-2021||Other||Mission accreditation: NAAC begins three-day assessment of UPRTOU campus||A seven-member team of the National Assessment Accreditation Council (NAAC) began their inspection and assessment for providing NAAC grading to Uttar Pradesh Rajarshi Tandon Open University, on Wednesday. The members of the committee inspected all the academic branches of the university and inquired about the programmes going on, besides interacting with the teachers. The NAAC team also inspected the central library and inquired about the books and journals available in it. The team members also interacted with the students present in the library. The team, led by prof KK Deka, former vice-chancellor, Dibrugarh University, Assam, who is also the chairperson of the NAAC peer team, was welcomed by the vice-chancellor of the lone state open university of UP, prof Seema Singh. On this occasion, the UPRTOU V-C presented a report of various activities and achievements of the university in front of the NAAC peer team through a PPT presentation. The NAAC team then inquired about the activities of Center for Inter Quality Assurance (CIQA). Prof Om G Gupta, director, CIQA, and deputy director, prof Ashutosh Gupta apprised the visiting team about the working of the centre. The members received information about the courses and syllabus from the teachers in the social science branch, humanities branch, management studies branch, education branch, science branch, computer and information science branch, agricultural science branch and health science branch. Later, the team members inspected the finance section, administration section, examination controller office, study centre section, media cell, research section and women’s studies centre, antiquated student council cell, learner support services and grievance redressal cell, property office, public information cell, etc. In the evening, a cultural evening was organised in the Atal Auditorium located in the Saraswati Complex of the university.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/mission-accreditation-naac-begins-three-day-assessment-of-uprtou-campus-101639598979108.html
16-12-2021||Chandigarh||Not possible to pay equal salaries to staff appointed under self-finance scheme: HP minister||It is not possible to pay equal salaries to the teaching and non-teaching staff appointed under the self-financing scheme to run professional courses in various colleges due to varying student strength as it will put additional burden on the students, Himachal education minister Govind Singh Thakur said in the state assembly on the last day of its winter session. He was replying to a debate initiated by Hamirpur MLA Narender Thakur to discuss the ‘injustice’ being done to teaching and non-teaching staff appointed under the self-finance scheme. Various professional courses such as BBA, BCA, PGDCA, Biotech, MCA and MBA are being run at 39 out of 132 government colleges in HP under the self-finance scheme. The minister said that the scheme was started in 1996 in Vallabh Government College, Mandi and Government PG College, Dharamshala, to promote professional courses. The minister said that total 6,952 students are pursuing professional courses under the scheme and 278 teachers and 193 non-teaching staff are employed in colleges to run these courses. He said these teachers were appointed by the societies formed by the colleges and the expenditure on salary and other items is also determined by them, which are paid from the fees collected from students. “It is also pertinent to mention here that the self-finance scheme is completely under the control of the higher education committee constituted in the colleges,” said Govind. The appointment of teachers and non-teaching employees and their salaries and other items are determined by completing all the formalities under the aegis of the society and there is no responsibility on the state government. Assembly passes Abadi Deh BillThe HP assembly on Wednesday passed the Himachal Pradesh Abadi Deh (Record of Rights) Bill, 2021.The new legislation will enable people of rural areas to use their properties as financial assets, creation of land records for rural planning and reduce legal cases and land disputes over abadi land in rural areas. Replying to the debate on the Bill, revenue minister Mahinder Singh Thakur said the legislation was introduced as ministry of panchayati raj has launched a central sector scheme ‘ SVAMITVA ‘ (Survey of Villages and Mapping with Improved Technology in Village Areas).He said the bill would also help in preparation of better-quality gram panchayat development plans by making use of geographic information system maps.Earlier, CPIM legislator Rakesh Singha had praised the government for bringing the bill and said it would facilitate to the people who were earlier deprived of their rights. He, however, said that rights must also be given to those who were given land under nautor scheme before 1980 but were deprived of right of property as mutation was not done. The House approved the bill unanimously without any opposition with voice votes.Assembly adjourned sine dieSpeaker Vipin Singh Parmar adjourned the Himachal assembly sine die after the completion on winter session. The session was held from December 10 to December 15. Chief minister Jai Ram Thakur, leader of opposition Mukesh Agnihotri and the Speaker in their conclusion remarks hailed the members for setting high standards and for smooth conductor of the house.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/not-possible-to-pay-equal-salaries-to-staff-appointed-under-self-finance-scheme-hp-minister-101639598918927.html
16-12-2021||Other||Plan student tours to Ram temple, KVC, UP Guv tells varsities||Governor Anandiben Patel has asked universities to organise student tours to important sites, including the under-construction Ram temple, and the Kashi Vishwanath Corridor.The governor made the remark while addressing the Sixth Convocation of the Madan Mohan Malviya University of Technology (MMMUT) on Wednesday.“When the Ram temple site was dug for making foundation, there was sand at a depth of 50 feet. And to deal with this issue, scientists from IITs Madras and Bengaluru brainstormed for three months. They studied the foundation architecture of Indian forts which are still standing and came up with a solution to give a base to the temple with a future life of 1,000 years. Don’t you think that our students should go there and sit with experts to discuss how they did that? Our universities should come forward for this,” the governor said.“You should go and see how these projects involving construction costs of ₹800-900 crore get completed in a time-bound manner,” she said, referring to key projects including the Kashi Vishwanath Corridor.She congratulated the students for winning medals and wished them luck for the future.Earlier, the governor inaugurated a herbal garden on the university campus with 552 herbal plants of medicinal benefit. She also released Malavika, an in-house magazine of the university, brought out by the students.On the occasion, an annual progress report of the university was presented by vice-chancellor JP Pandey while professor Premvrat, chairman, board of governors, IIT, Dhanbad, graced the occasion as guest of honour.Thirty-five gold medals were conferred on 16 toppers and 1,174 degrees were awarded to students, including 831 boys and 343 girls. As many as 782 B Tech students got their degrees while 199 degrees were given to M Tech students, and 66 students got MBA degrees.On the occasion, school children were also invited as part of an initiative to encourage them to pursue higher education after school and win medals. They received gifts from the governor.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/plan-student-tours-to-ram-temple-kvc-up-guv-tells-varsities-101639598499224.html
16-12-2021||Other||Project Alankar: 62 buildings of UP govt high schools, Inter colleges set for revamp||PRAYAGRAJ: The 62 dilapidated buildings of government high schools and Intermediate colleges located in different districts of the state would be reconstructed, repaired and renovated under the “Project Alankar” at a cost of ₹135 crore, said senior state education department officials. The proposal of 62 school buildings had already been received by the Directorate of Education, Uttar Pradesh, and now a proposal in this regard would be sent to the designated committee constituted under the chairmanship of the state director of secondary education, to examine the proposal. After getting approval from the panel, the work would start, the officials said. Additional chief secretary (secondary education) Aradhana Shukla had sought a proposal on October 1 for the renovation and repair of the dilapidated buildings of the government-run schools, they added. Confirming the development, district inspector of schools (DIOS), Prayagraj, RN Vishwakarma, said, “A list of six schools of Prayagraj district, which needed urgent reconstructions and repairs of their buildings, has been sent to the directorate.” For this, a four-member committee has been constituted under the chairmanship of the respective district magistrates in all districts with chief development officer as member, DIOS as member secretary and executive engineer of public works department as technical member. Besides, a maximum of six schools of Prayagraj, five schools each from Kanpur Nagar, Meerut and Firozabad districts, and three each from Chitrakoot, Banda and Shahjahanpur districts too have been included in the list. In Prayagraj, ₹2.65 crore for Government Girls’ Inter College, Katra, established in 1998 has been proposed while ₹3.91 crore for Government Girls’ Intermediate College (GGIC) Phulpur, established in 1962 along with ₹3.72 crore and ₹2.82 crore for Government Intermediate College (GIC)-Suruvadalapur and Beri established in 1980, respectively have been proposed. Likewise, for GGICs-Saidabad and Dhanupur established in 1992, ₹61.50 lakh and ₹38.21 lakh, respectively, have been proposed for various works. In these schools, drinking water facility, boundary wall and gate construction, cycle stand, solar plant, rainwater harvesting, wall, roof, floor, window and door repairs etc would be undertaken. 
16-12-2021||Chandigarh||23 booked for attacking police party in Panipat village||Police have booked 23 people for allegedly attacking a joint police team comprising cops from Haryana and Uttar Pradesh in Nawada Par village of Panipat district.The police team had gone to arrest an accused booked for gang rape in Baghpat of Uttar Pradesh.As per the complaint filed by the cops, the incident took place late on Tuesday when they had gone to arrest Harun, of the village, in connection with the gang rape case.Harun, along with the others, had allegedly attacked the police party and a cop sustained injuries in the incident. The accused managed to flee, alleged sub-inspector Jai Pal.The police have registered a case under Sections 353, 332, 323, 341, 506, 186 and 149 of the IPC against 23 persons including Harun, Kadil, Mohsin, Bunni, Quaidil, Arshad, Tahsim and Umesh. However, no arrest has been made so far.Panipat SP Shashank Kumar Sawan said the FIR was registered and police teams are working on arresting the accused.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/23-booked-for-attacking-police-party-in-panipat-village-101639597118435.html
16-12-2021||Chandigarh||Reveal names of bribe-givers in cash-for-job scam: Haryana Cong||Asking the Haryana government to make public the names of bribe-givers in the Haryana Staff Selection Commission (HSSC) and the Haryana Public Service Commission (HPSC) recruitment scams, the Congress on Wednesday questioned why the vigilance bureau (VB) hasn’t arrested the candidates who paid cash for jobs till date.Addressing a joint press conference, Haryana Pradesh Congress Committee (HPCC) president Kumari Selja and All India Congress Committee (AICC) general secretary Randeep Singh Surjewala said the names and papers of many candidates who allegedly got jobs on different posts (HCS, dental surgeon, ANM, staff nurse, etc) by allegedly paying bribe in the HSSC and the HPSC have come to notice.“In spite of this, neither the state government nor the VB have arrested anyone till date. All the candidates who gave bribe, are also accused. Then why were their names not disclosed?” the senior Congress leaders asked.The Congress leaders said in the November 17 FIR and remand request, it was stated that bribe was taken to pass candidates in the Haryana Teacher Eligibility Test (HTET) conducted by the Haryana School Education Board (HSEB). “However, neither the HSEB was investigated nor any person who took bribe and paid bribe to pass the HTET exam was arrested or investigated,” they said.The Congress leader further said in recruitment of police sub-inspector (SI) male and female, the HSSC has accepted irregularities in recruitment of 41 male candidates and nine female candidates, but no FIR was registered against anyone.The HSSC has also admitted that in the recruitment of 516 police commandos, the fingerprints given at the time of paper are not matching with the biometrics at the time of paper checking.“It is clear from the veiled proceedings of the VB that the whole matter has been dumped. Even the candidates who took the job by paying bribe were not investigated. It is clear that the entire matter will be settled silently and no action will be taken by the government,” said Selja and Surjewala, pointing out that Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar cannot escape the responsibility in this recruitment scandal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/reveal-names-of-bribe-givers-in-cash-for-job-scam-haryana-cong-101639596999705.html
16-12-2021||Lucknow||Lucknow: Agra doctor held for involvement in UP TET paper leak case||Lucknow: The Uttar Pradesh Special Task Force (STF) on Wednesday arrested an Agra-based doctor from Lucknow in connection with the UP TET (Teacher Eligibility Test) paper leak case, STF officials said. He was also involved in the Vyapam scam of Madhya Pradesh and had already served jail term for it, they added. So far, the STF has arrested a total of 34 people for their involvement in the paper leak case, from Prayagraj, Shamli, Lucknow, Ayodhya, Kaushambi, Noida and Baghpat districts. Confirming the development, Additional Director General (ADG) of STF, Amitabh Yash, said, “The STF team arrested one Santosh Kumar Chaurasia, one of the masterminds behind the UP TET paper leak case. Chaurasia was the person who received the question paper a day before the exam and circulated it. He is a native of Agra and is a qualified medical doctor.” The UP TET paper, scheduled to be held on November 28, was leaked hours before the exam. The state government announced the cancellation of the paper and handed over the investigation into the matter to the STF. The STF used ground intelligence along with mobile surveillance data of the suspects to nab the accused involved in the incident. “When Chaurasia came to know about the paper leak, he destroyed his mobile phone and left Uttar Pradesh. He kept moving to different places. However, we learned from intelligence sources that he is coming to Lucknow. Our team acted on the intelligence and arrested him,” said the ADG. Chaurasia informed the STF that he earned around ₹10 lakh by sharing the question paper that he received from one of the other accused via an online messaging application. He deleted the app after receiving the question paper and circulated it among few people. “We are also trying to get details of transactions made from his bank accounts to track other accused in this case,” said the officer.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/lucknow-agra-doctor-held-for-involvement-in-up-tet-paper-leak-case-101639596998554.html
16-12-2021||Chandigarh||Veteran releases his book on 1971 Indo-Pak War in Chandigarh||Colonel Ranbir Singh (retd) on Wednesday announced the release of his book, “War In The East, Liberation of Bangladesh, 1971”, coinciding with the 50th anniversary of the 1971 Indo-Pak military conflict. Col Singh, a Vir Chakra recipient, himself fought in the war as part of the 4 Rajput Regiment. A Major in the army at the time, Col Singh wanted to highlight the leadership skills of the junior-level officers through his book. Elaborating on the same, he said, “While most of the war books on the East Pakistan war have been written from the perspective of top military commanders, my book has been written from the grassroots level. The stress has been laid on battalion-level operations, highlighting junior commanders’ leadership.” “Majority of the books cover a specific unit or formation whereas my book covers the entire offensive operation by India’s Eastern Command and illustrates the war in its entirety,” he added.Recalling the military’s meticulous planning and strategy-making, Col Singh said, “The Indian Army had weaved a chakravyuh to ensure success. It was meticulous planning, which was relentlessly executed to perfection by all sub units, which I have mentioned in the book.”The 163-page-long book offers insights into the background of the war, its trigger point and actions prior to declaration of war by Pakistan on December 3, 1971. The book also includes detailed illustrations in the form of 38 maps and sketches.Among those present at the event were Lt General Bhopinder Singh, Lt General HS Panag, Lt General GS Sihota, Major General PC Puri, Major General JS Dhillon and Brigadier HS Lamba.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/veteran-releases-his-book-on-1971-indo-pak-war-in-chandigarh-101639596830823.html
16-12-2021||Chandigarh||Accident: Teen killed in car-bike crash in Lalru||An 18-year-old youth was killed after a recklessly driven car hit his motorcycle in Lalru late on Tuesday evening.He has been identified as Rohit Kumar, alias Mohit, a resident of Lalru. The accused driver, Jai Narain, was arrested and later released on bail. Investigating officer Onkar Singh said Rohit was on a bike with a friend when Jai Narain’s speeding car hit them from the rear at the Lahli T-Point near the main highway. Rohit sustained injuries and was rushed to the PGIMER, Chandigarh, but died while undergoing treatment.Jai Narain, a resident of Sardarpura Colony in Lalru Mandi, has been booked for rash driving and causing death by negligence. After the postmortem, the victim’s body was handed over to his family on Wednesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/accidentteen-killed-in-car-bike-crash-in-lalru-101639596829574.html
16-12-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh MC polls: No new taxes, promises Congress||With the promise to make Chandigarh the “No. 1” city in the country, the Congress on Wednesday released its manifesto for the municipal corporation elections scheduled on December 24.Among other key promises are no new taxes, water tariff hike rollback and separate budget for villages.The Congress, aiming to take back the MC’s reigns from the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) after six years, has proposed to generate alternative sources of revenue for the civic body instead of imposing any new tax on the residents.Releasing the manifesto at the Congress Bhawan in Sector 35, former Chandigarh MP and the party’s national treasurer Pawan Kumar Bansal said: “The BJP has burdened the city residents with unprecedented high taxes, and the Congress will ensure that this is rectified.”The party has also promised to permanently roll back the increase in water charges and other levies imposed by the BJP-run corporation. “The Congress will bring back the old rates of sewerage tax at ₹20 per toilet seat. The existing sewerage tax being charged at 30% of the water bill is the highest such tax in the country,” said Chandigarh Congress president Subhash Chawla.The party also promised to demand the “rightful share” of the MC from the UT’s revenues, as allocated by the Delhi Finance Commission. It is a long-pending issue and has come up repeatedly in the previous election manifestos of both the BJP and Congress.“Funds for the capital expenditure, used for development works, will be increased. In the BJP rule, it has sharply declined, affecting the city’s development,” said Bansal, adding that the Congress has resolved to ensure the city’s growth and development with accountability, commitment, and transparency.Making city No. 1 in cleanlinessWith Chandigarh slipping in the Swachh Survekshan rankings, the Congress is promising to make the city “cleanest” again.Party’s state in-charge Harish Chaudhary said that if the Congress is voted into power, “the city’s lost glory as the best city in the country with impeccable standards in cleanliness, beautiful roads, exquisite parks and a good quality of life will be re-achieved”.The party will revamp the existing garbage management system, and a “new world-class garbage treatment plant with latest technology will be set up on priority”, states the manifesto. Under the new garbage collection system, maximum share of the revenue will be given to the personnel engaged in garbage collection, it said.Notably, the BJP has repeatedly blamed the Congress for the dysfunctional solid waste processing plant in Dadumajra, as it was set up during the Congress rule. “If it was so bad, then why didn’t the BJP do anything about it in the last six years?” said Chawla.Congress is locked in a three-cornered electoral battle with the BJP and Aam Admi Party (AAP). In the past few months, the party has seen senior party leaders, including former city unit chief Pardeep Chhabra, join the rival parties. The party is also facing challenge from around a dozen rebel candidates.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-mc-polls-no-new-taxes-promises-congress-101639596828292.html
16-12-2021||Chandigarh||Centre of excellence for autism inaugurated in Mohali||Punjab medical education and research minister Raj Kumar Verka on Wednesday inaugurated the Centre of Excellence for Autism and Neuro-developmental Disorders at Sector 79, Mohali. Verka said the centre is a first-of-its-kind institute in Punjab and will provide comprehensive, integrated and responsive services for persons with autism and other neuro-developmental disorders in India. The centre will also provide clinical services and residential facilities for training of parents besides a school for children. Dr BR Ambedkar State Institute of Medical Sciences in Mohali has been entrusted with the responsibility to manage the centre. A multidisciplinary specialists’ team, including paediatricians, psychiatrists, occupational and physical therapists, will also be available at the centre, said the minister.Verka also held an interactive session with patients and staff members present at the centre and directed the department officials to extend every possible assistance to the centre.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/centre-of-excellence-for-autism-inaugurated-in-mohali-101639596826397.html
16-12-2021||Chandigarh||UGC pay scales row: PUTA asks teachers to back Education Bandh||The Panjab University Teachers Association (PUTA) on Wednesday asked the varsity teachers to suspend all academic activities amid ongoing protest by university and college teachers, from the UT and Punjab, over the non-implementation of the revised University Grants Commission (UGC) pay scales.The PUTA, in its latest notice, stated that all heads of the departments and teachers had been requested to suspend all academic work, entailing teaching, carrying out examinations and evaluations, as well as attending meetings, in support of the Punjab Federation of University and College Teachers Organisations’ (PFUCTO) call for an “Education Bandh”. “Let’s stand united and force the Punjab government to implement the revised UGC pay scales, as per the seventh pay commission without any further delay,” the PUTA statement read.The latest developments come a day after PU and city-college teachers held a protest rally at the Matka Chowk. The teacher associations across five universities, 48 colleges and 145 aided colleges had on December 1 declared an indefinite protest, having come together under the banner of the PFUCTO. The teachers are demanding the immediate implementation of the revised scales by the Punjab government as per the Seventh Pay Commission recommendations and withdrawal of the state’s decision to delink the pay scales from the UGC.Departments postpone internal examsMeanwhile, continuing the protests, teachers from PU carried out marches on the varsity campus, voicing their demands. A PUTA delegation also submitted a memorandum of their demands to Kumari Selja, president of the Haryana Pradesh Congress Committee. In view of the protests, PU’s University Institute of Engineering and Technology (UIET) and University Institute of Chemical Engineering and Technology (UICET) also postponed their internal exams.The ongoing protests have also thrown a question mark on the status of the upcoming semester exams.
16-12-2021||Chandigarh||Mohali MC hands over six public libraries to RWAs||After being forced to shut six public libraries, owing to staff shortage and lack of funds, in December last year, the Mohali municipal corporation on Wednesday handed them over to resident welfare associations (RWAs) for maintenance. The libraries, which are located in different green belts of the city, are expected to reopen in a week’s time. The civic body also announced ₹10,000 per monthly aid to be allotted to each library in addition to an allowance covering the power bill. Announcing the latest move, deputy mayor Kuljeet Singh Bedi said: “We have handed over the libraries to the respective RWAs and they will be open within a week’s time. We will even provide some books to them.”The Greater Mohali Area Development Authority (GMADA) had in 2017 commissioned the libraries, each at an estimated cost of ₹20 lakh, before handing them over to the MC. All six libraries had been operational since 2019, but were forced to shut down in December last year. Located in Phases 4, 6, 3B1, and 9, and Sectors 69 and 70, the libraries offered books, mainly donated by the public.
16-12-2021||Chandigarh||GBP Group promoters booked in another cheating case in Chandigarh||The Chandigarh Police on Wednesday registered a case of cheating and forgery against the GBP Group promoters for failing to hand over possession of two plots, with total worth of ₹91.24 lakh, to a Zirakpur couple.Complainant Anil Sharma alleged the accused cheated him by taking the payment for the sale of two plots they didn’t even own on the Landran-Kharar road in 2019. Later, the accused assured him of a refund but then stopped answering his phone calls, Sharma alleged.GBP Group managing director Satish Kumar Gupta, directors Pradeep Gupta, Raman Gupta and Anupam Gupta and property consultant Sunil Tripathi have been named in the FIR, registered under Sections 420 (cheating), 467 (forgery), 468 (forgery for cheating), 471 (forging documents) and 120B (criminal conspiracy) of the Indian Penal Code at the Sector 34 police station.The group promoters are facing several cases as they left the country, leaving in the lurch over 2,500 people who have invested nearly ₹1,500 crore in their multiple residential and commercial projects.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/gbp-group-promoters-booked-in-another-cheating-case-in-chandigarh-101639596822245.html
16-12-2021||Chandigarh||Three open-air gyms inaugurated in Mohali||Former Punjab health minister and local MLA Balbir Singh Sidhu on Wednesday inaugurated three open-air gyms in Phase 7, Mohali. Sidhu said amid Covid-19, exercise has become very important for people to enhance their internal immunity to fight such diseases. Keeping this in mind, the Mohali municipal corporation is setting up open-air gyms in different parks, he said.MORE NEWS FROM TRICITY & BEYONDTwo men held for gamblingTwo men have been arrested for gambling in public places in Chandigarh. Sanjay Bansal of Sector 32 was arrested in Ram Darbar. Police recovered ₹51,250 from him. Anil Kumar of Nayagoan was arrested in Sector 37, and ₹3,050 were seized from him. Both were later released on bail. City to host 3x3 Pro Basketball LeagueThe Basketball Federation of India and 3x3 Pro Basketball League Indian Sub-continent (3BL) on Wednesday signed a contract to promote the sport in India. The 3BL Season 3 will be held from March 5 to 27 in Chandigarh, in which 18 franchises (12 for men and six for women) will compete.Memorial lecture held at PUPanjab University’s physics department organised the sixth Professor BM Anand Memorial Lecture virtually on Wednesday. Prof S Ramakrishnan, director, Tata Institute of Fundamental Research, Mumbai, delivered a talk on “achieving ultra-low temperatures and physics at those temperatures” and described superconductivity.Haryana guv praises social organisationsHaryana governor Bandaru Dattatreya, while chairing the valedictory session of 26th state-level Ambulances Completion on Wednesday, said that social services rendered by St John’s and Red Cross societies is commendable. Dattatreya also said that due to concerted efforts of the Union and state government, Haryana’s sex ratio has improved from 871 in 2015 to 904 now.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/three-open-air-gyms-inaugurated-in-mohali-101639596820891.html
16-12-2021||Chandigarh||U-19 Cricket World Cup: Cabbie’s son with roots in Mohali to play for Australia||Baljit Singh Bajwa’s phone has been buzzing with calls from Mohali as he is driving his taxi in the streets of Melbourne, after his 17-year-old son Harkirat Singh Bajwa made it to the Australia U-19 cricket team. It has been almost nine years since Baljit and his family migrated to Melbourne, but his relatives back in Mohali have been following Harkirat’s game all this while and are over the moon as he is set to represent Australia in the upcoming U-19 World Cup to be held in the West Indies from January 14.“It is phenomenal to see my son do well for Victoria in age group tournaments and bag a berth in the Australian U-19 team, which will compete in the World Cup. It was my dream to see Harkirat play for Australia one day. The U-19 team is just a start for him,” says Baljit, 45, who was a construction engineer in Mohali and was part of the team that constructed the PCA Stadium. The family moved to Melbourne in 2012. As a seven-year-old, Harkirat had just played gully cricket in Mohali, but when he arrived in Australia, he joined Chelsea Cricket Club to hone his cricketing skills. An off-spinner with bowling action very similar to India’s Harbhajan Singh, Harkirat idolises both Harbhajan and Ravichandran Ashwin. “I am greatly inspired by both the Indian spinners. I have grown up seeing Harbhajan Singh’s videos and a bit of my bowling action resembles his. Learning the sport in Melbourne has been the best thing to have happened to me,” says Harkirat, who plays for Melbourne Cricket Club and has also played for Australia U-16 team before the pandemic. Harkirat says his father took up driving a cab to remain independent and take him to practice sessions when required. “He has been a tremendous support, pushing me from the start,” says Harkirat, a devout Sikh and a true Punjabi by heart.Many Indian-origin cricketers, such as Gurinder Sandhu, Jason Jaskirat Singh Sangha and Tanveer Sangha, went on to play for Australia senior men’s team after doing well for the Australian U-19 teams in the past. Harkirat has this fact in the back of his mind.“All of them have proved their mettle at the junior level before getting a chance for the Australian senior team. I am eyeing success in the Caribbean and want to do well for my team. My dream will come true the day I get selected for the Australian senior team,” he says, while adding that he admires Australian spinners Shane Warne, Nython Lyon and Stuart McGill.Australia last won the U-19 World Cup in 2010. They take on hosts West Indies in the opener on January 14.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/u19-cricket-world-cup-cabbie-s-son-with-roots-in-mohali-to-play-for-australia-101639596819649.html
16-12-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: Technical institutes’ faculty to retire at 65, not 58||In a big relief to the faculty of technical institutes in Chandigarh, the UT administration has withdrawn an appeal from the Supreme Court, which was filed to challenge a Punjab and Haryana high court ruling on enhancement of their retirement age from 58 to 65 years.The decision will affect the faculty at Punjab Engineering College and Chandigarh College of Architecture in Sector 12; Chandigarh College of Engineering and Technology, Sector 26; Government Polytechnic for Women, Sector 10; and Government College of Art, Sector 10. It was on March 1 when the high court had held that retirement age for faculty of institutes governed under norms of the All India Council for Technical Education (AICTE) will be 65 years, and not 58 as fixed by the Chandigarh administration, with an extension period of five years as in central government institutes. The court had also directed that the petitioners who were forcibly superannuated be taken back with consequential benefits.The UT administration had approached the apex court against this order on August 23.A lawyer associated with the case said that a statement was made before the Supreme Court on instructions from the UT administration that the petition be withdrawn. The lawyer said that the UT’s instructions were in pursuant to a communication from the Centre to withdraw the case. The SC’s website showed the case status as “dismissed as withdrawn”.“This decision will benefit approximately 300 teachers working in higher and technical institutions in Chandigarh. It will go a long way in solving teachers’ problems,” said Dr Manoj Kumar, general secretary, Chandigarh Government College Teachers’ Association.Litigation so far In 2020, a group of faculty members of Government College of Art and Government College of Architecture had moved the Central Administrative Tribunal, challenging the UT administration’s rules pertaining to their retirement. After they lost, they approached the high court.The teachers have been arguing that their institutes are governed under the AICTE Act, 1987, and rules with regard to regulations on pay scales, service conditions, etc, should apply as followed by all AICTE-governed institutes. However, the Chandigarh administration was of the view that services of these faculty members are covered by rules framed under a 1992 notification, according to which Punjab government service rules have been adopted in the UT, and the retirement age should remain 58 years.The high court was of the view that in the case of Union Territories, the rule-making power belongs to the President. This power under Article 309 and the rules framed will operate and will have a force of law, unless and until the Parliament chooses to legislate on the subject. “Once the Parliament legislates, such Act and the rules/regulations framed there under, would take over the field, resulting in the rules framed by the President under proviso to Article 309 seizing to operate forthwith,” the high court had said referring to the AICTE Act.The high court was also of the view that under the AICTE Regulations, 2010, the age for superannuation was 65 years, with a provision for re-employment up to the age of 70 years. To the argument that funds for the colleges are provided by the UT, the high court had said that these are central government funds and the UT is merely utilising them.Meanwhile, retirement age of teachers at Panjab University (PU) is 60 years. The PU faculty has lost first round of litigation on increasing the retirement age to 65, and an appeal against the same is pending before a division bench of the high court. The argument in this case is that PU is not a centrally funded institute as Punjab gives an annual grant to the varsity.
16-12-2021||Other||Cong poll campaign to centre around collective leadership||Chandigarh In a strategic move, the Congress has decided to run its 2022 assembly election campaign in Punjab with “collective leadership” rather than centering it on any individual leader, but remains concerned about answering tough questions on former chief minister (CM) Capt Amarinder Singh’s four-and-a-half-year stint. The first ground rule for the poll campaign, in which the party is seeking to retain power, was set at a meeting held by Punjab Congress campaign committee head Sunil Jakhar with state unit president Navjot Singh Sidhu, CM Charanjit Singh Channi, state affairs in-charge Harish Chaudhary, among others, at the Punjab Bhawan, the state headquarters of the party, on Wednesday. Former Punjab Congress chief Jakhar, appointed the campaign in-charge by the party high command last week, began the brainstorming session by seeking suggestions from Sidhu, Channi and others on the campaign theme and whether it should be based on ideology, personality, vision or performance, according to party sources. Chaudhary, while asking everyone to work together, stressed on “collective leadership”, stating former Congress president Rahul Gandhi was in favour of this. Channi was taciturn, saying that he would go with the decision taken by the party high command; Sidhu emphasised the need to build a credible campaign. The PPCC chief spoke about the resentment among party workers over issues, such as appointments given to close relatives of ministers and MLAs, adding that these should be rolled back, said sources. He also took a dig at Channi by stating that the campaign was already on, with the CM’s photos on just about every rooftop. Concern over tough questions on Capt’s tenure At the meeting, Jakhar also asked his colleagues to be prepared to answer tough questions during the campaign on the first four-and-a-half years of Amarinder, who has since quit the Congress to float his separate political outfit. “We cannot run away from it,” he is learnt to have told them.Amarinder was made to resign as the CM by the Congress in September this year following revolt by four of his ministers and several MLAs over his “laid-back style of governance” and “non-fulfilment of key promises”. Another suggestion was to hold sessions with sections of society, such as NRIs, who were quite active and wooed by different parties during the 2017 polls. In these sessions, the CM or the finance minister can address their issues. “This was the first meeting and only preliminary discussions were held. The campaign in-charge will hold follow-up meetings before finalising the theme and strategy,” persons familiar with the discussions said. Jakhar is also likely to announce his campaign committee team in the next three-four days and may include some MPs in it. Congress joint secretary Krishna Allavaru, secretary Raminder Awla, Punjab Congress general secretary (organisation) Pargat Singh and state working president Sukhvinder Singh Danny were also present at the meeting. Sidhu posts photo with Harbhajan, sets off speculations After the meeting, Sidhu tweeted a photo with former cricketer Harbhajan Singh with the caption, “Picture loaded with possibilities…With Bhajji the shining star”. The PPCC president’s tweet triggered speculation that the former Indian cricket team spinner was joining the ruling party. Earlier, there were also reports about his entry into the BJP, but Harbhajan had put out a tweet, calling it “fake news”. Later, Sidhu and Chaudhary addressed newly-appointed district presidents and working presidents of the party. State Election Committee meets today Sidhu has convened a meeting of the Pradesh Election Committee (PEC) on Thursday to set the ball rolling on the selection of candidates for the polls. The panel, which has Channi and his cabinet ministers, as members, will meet at the Punjab Bhawan. The PEC is tasked with shortlisting candidates. Rajya Sabha members Ambika Soni and Partap Singh Bajwa, former state president Jakhar, HS Hanspal and Mohinder Singh Kaypee, former CM Rajinder Kaur Bhattal, former Punjab Congress senior vice-president Lal Singh and AlCC secretary KL Sharma are also part of the state poll panel, besides all MPs and state heads of the frontal organisations of the party. 
16-12-2021||Other||Hindu Ekta Mahakumbh: Bhagwat calls for ‘ghar wapsi’, Hindu unity in Chitrakoot||Kanpur: Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) chief Mohan Bhagwat on Wednesday administered oath to the participants of Hindu Ekta Mahakumbh in Chitrakoot and urged them to work for ‘ghar wapsi’ of those who had left Hinduism and converted to other religions. Bhagwat was speaking at the inaugural session of the three-day long Hindu Ekta Mahakumbh organised with the theme ‘Chaahe panth anek ho, saare Hindu ek ho’ (Whether the sects are different, all the Hindus are one). He asked people to take a pledge for propagation and protection of Hindu culture and values, besides protecting and respecting the dignity of women. He also gave a call for ‘selfless unity’ among believers of Hinduism. “Keep making efforts to bring people, who had left Hinduism and ensure that they can rejoin the Sanatan Dharma. The fear could not hold you back for long. We will have to ensure no one leaves Hindu religion, those who have left, will be brought back to our family,” he said exhorting the participants. Jagatguru Tulsi Peethadheeshwar Swami Bhadracharya, who organised this event, in his address, also sought for the Uniform Civil Code by 2024. The Sangh chief further laid emphasis on the Hindu unity and said, “The followers of the religion should work selflessly and tirelessly with sacrificing the ego.” To make his point clear, he also narrated the story of constant wars between the gods and demons for the power of heaven. Meanwhile, during the discourse Sri Sri Ravi Shankar of Art of living, said when the Hindu unite, they work for the country unlike those who unite to terrorize. He also endorsed the 12-point agenda that include ‘love jihad’ and religious conversion. Though billed as completely apolitical, the Mahakumbh has issues on the agenda that could give political overtone to discussion especially when assembly polls were weeks away. The topics of discussions include Shri Ram temple--a symbol of national respect; solution and problems related to control on temples and mutts; religious conversion-- an international conspiracy; love jihad--deviation of youths and the solution. Besides, uniform civil code, population control law, nationalism, education based on Indian philosophy, cow-protection, social harmony, de-addiction, and environment oriented cultural rejuvenation. CM likely to attend Mahakumbh today The Hindu Ekta Mahakumbh that started with simultaneous blowing of 1,100 conches would end on Thursday. Around one lakh seers and saints from all over the country are attending this event. Chief minister Yogi Adityanath is expected to attend and address the event on Thursday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/hindu-ekta-mahakumbh-bhagwat-calls-for-ghar-wapsi-hindu-unity-in-chitrakoot-101639596579851.html
16-12-2021||Other||Kejriwal promises sports university, international airport for Jalandhar||Jalandhar Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) national convener and Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Wednesday promised the setting up of the country’s biggest sports university and an international airport in Jalandhar, if his party was voted to power in the assembly polls. Addressing people during his ‘Tiranga Yatra’ in Jalandhar on Wednesday, he added, “Jalandhar’s sports manufacturing is world-class and the AAP will set up India’s biggest sports university here in Jalandhar. The region is also the hub of NRIs, who want direct connectivity to Jalandhar, our party will develop an international airport too for their convenience.” The party’s Tiranga Yatra began from Valmiki Chowk and concluded at the Ambedkar Chowk in the city and was attended by locals and party volunteers. State party chief Bhagwant Mann, leader of opposition, Harpal Singh Cheema and state affairs in-charge and Delhi MLA Jarnail Singh accompanied Kejriwal. “I would like to salute our farmers and people of Punjab as they led the protest against the farm laws. People from Punjab sat on the Delhi borders and the country’s farmers stood by them. Now, all of us have to win the battle for the glory of Punjab and form an AAP government,” Kejriwal added.The Delhi CM added that the AAP was following the vision of the visionary father of the Indian Constitution, BR Ambedkar, by emphasising education in the national capital and providing world-class education was the major responsibility of any state. AAP Punjab president Bhagwant Mann said, “Punjab has wasted too many opportunities on the Akali-BJP combine and the Congress parties, but the shamelessness of these parties knows no bounds as they are asking for another opportunity. In 2022, the people of Punjab will give a chance to their progress and form an honest government.” He added that the party will hold a rally in the Akali bastion of Lambi (Muktsar) baston on Thursday. After the procession, Kejriwal met all AAP candidates in Jalandhar, where, sources said, he clarified that only focus of the party during campaigning had to be multi-pronged development of Punjab. Earlier in the day in Amritsar, Kejriwal said, “Punjab is the land of martyrs. Our Tiranga Yatra is a tribute to all freedom fighters and martyrs.” He added that Punjabis had always been leaders when it came to serving the country.“Even today Punjab’s heroes are at forefront, sacrificing their lives while saving our borders and keeping our nation safe. That’s why hosting a tricolor procession in Punjab, is a salute to all those warriors. The yatra is dedicated to a better future for Punjab,” he added. On his arrival at the airport, Punjab leader of opposition Harpal Singh Cheema; senior leader Kunwar Vijay Pratap Singh, Jeewanjot Kaur, Seema Sodhi, Prabhjot Brar, Iqbal Singh Bhullar, Jagdeep Singh and other AAP leaders of state welcomed them.Tiranga Yatra a hoax, claims BJPThe Bharatiya janata party (BJP) on Wednesday claimed, in Chandigarh, that Kejriwal’s Tiranga Yatra was a hoax and was an attempt to mislead the public. Punjab BJP general secretary Subash Sharma said, “With elections approaching, Kejriwal has suddenly turned into a nationalist; not so long ago, the same Kejriwal had questions the Indian Army, even asking it to prove the Balakot air strike.” 
16-12-2021||Other||Five gangsters acquitted of murder on police failure to present evidence||Faridkot A local court acquitted five accused, gangsters Jagdeep Singh, alias Jaggu Bhagwanpuria; Sampat Nehra; Bharat Bhushan, alias Bhola Shooter; Haripal Singh and Deepak Kumar of murder charges, after the Punjab Police case fell flat in court. Sources said the failure of the state police to present evidence in the murder case of gangster Lavi Deora led to the acquittal. It was alleged that in an inter-gang rivalry, these gangsters had killed 25-year-old gangster Deora on July 15, 2017, at a fair in Kotkapura town of Faridkot district. It was alleged that all these accused belong to the Lawrence Bishnoi gang. Initially, the police had booked Bhola Shooter and others for the crime. The remaining four accused were named after further investigation, and a local court had framed charges against them in October 2019. Defence lawyer Shiv Kartar Sekhon said the prosecution failed to substantiate the charges against his clients. “The prosecution lawyer could not produce any evidence against the accused. The circumstantial evidence and forensic reports produced by the probe agency did not prove the complicity of the five in the alleged crime. The prosecution failed to establish the chain of events,” he said. Citing lack of evidence, additional sessions judge Jagdeep Marok observed that the prosecution failed to establish the culpability of the accused. The only witness in the case had turned hostile during cross-examination. Deora’s killing was the fallout of two friends turning foes. Hailing from Kotkapura, Lavi and Bhola were earlier nominated as co-accused in many criminal cases in the area. Later, they went their separate ways over the establishment of their criminal supremacy in the region. 
16-12-2021||Chandigarh||Jalandhar woman booked for theft at Chandigarh house||A Jalandhar woman was on Wednesday booked for stealing two gold bangles from the house of her husband’s employer in Chandigarh.Complainant Sukhwant Kaur resides in Sector 39, Chandigarh, and owns a petrol pump in Jalandhar. She said Hardeep Kaur, wife of her employee Victor who works at the petrol pump, had stayed at her house for two days in November, after which the bangles went missing. When Sukhwant tried to contact the couple, Victor stopped reporting to work. A case has been registered under Section 380 (theft in dwelling house) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) in Sector 39. Snatcher heldPolice on Wednesday arrested a man accused of snatching a mobile phone from a resident of Sector 38-West on November 20. The snatcher has been identified as Ravi, 20, of Maloya. He was arrested based on a tip-off, and has been sent to judicial custody. Police also managed to recover the snatched mobile phone.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/jalandhar-woman-booked-for-theft-at-chandigarh-house-101639595859268.html
16-12-2021||Chandigarh||PRTC employees’ protest in Kharar: Commuters stuck in traffic jam for 10 hours||Commuters were at the receiving end on Wednesday after a massive traffic jam was witnessed on the Kharar flyover and at the bus stand, as around 5,000 contractual employees of the state-owned Punjab Roadways and Pepsu Road Transport Corporation blocked the highway demanding regularisation of their jobs. The protestors had planned to gherao chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi’s residence in Kharar, but were stopped from proceeding, after which they blocked the highway. The blockade that started near the bus stand at 8 am remained in place till 6 pm, as even the heavy police force failed to remove the protesters.Meanwhile, members of the National Rural Health Mission Employees Union, Punjab, also protested on the flyover from 12 noon to 6 pm. The NHM employees claimed that jobs of experienced employees had not been regularised despite working with dedication for a long time.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/prtcemployees-protest-in-kharar-commuters-stuck-in-traffic-jam-for-10-hours-101639595558680.html
16-12-2021||Chandigarh||PU semester exams: 75% mandatory attendance for students suspended||The Panjab University on Wednesday suspended the condition of 75% mandatory attendance for students appearing for odd-semester exams in the wake of the pandemic.A communication in this regard was issued by the office of the dean university instruction (DUI), announcing the provision for students of the varsity’s teaching departments, affiliated colleges and constituent colleges. “In view of COVID-19 pandemic situation and looking at the problems of students, the mandatory condition of attendance for appearing in examinations is suspended for odd semester only (session 2021-2022) for all classes of teaching departments as well as all affiliated/constituent colleges, and this should not be made as a precedent in future,” the notice read.The teachers have nonetheless been asked to submit their attendance record at the concerned department offices.The university has also provided its MPhil and PhD students with an extension, until June 30, 2022, for submitting their dissertation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/pu-semester-exams-75-mandatory-attendance-for-students-suspended-101639595386125.html
16-12-2021||Other||Farmers take out victory march in Gurugram||A group of farmers from villages in the district on Wednesday took out a victory march in their cars and tractors from Rajiv Chowk to Sadar Bazar to mark the successful conclusion of their protest against the Centre’s three contentious farm laws. Some leaders of left parties and local workers also participated in the march titled ‘Mazdoor Vijay Yatra’. The farmers had been protesting against the farm laws at Rajiv Chowk for the last one year. Yudhvir Singh, general secretary, Bharatiya Kisan Union, who presided over the event, asserted that the protest movement of farmers led by Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM) saved democracy in the country. “Farmers from all castes and communities came together in this fight. I just want to tell the people that farmers from Punjab, Haryana, UP and across the country managed to defeat a powerful government due to their unity,” he said. Santokh Singh, president of SKM, Gurugram, said that backtracking on three laws was a political decision taken by the BJP government because of the upcoming state elections. “The government was expecting that farmers will get tired and return to their homes but we proved them wrong,” he said. “We will never surrender before the capitalists who are trying to monopolize the agriculture sector and industries in the country,” said SL Prajapati, secretary, Gurugram unit of CPI (M), who participated in the rally. The BJP said that the party believed in the ideology of nation first, and the Prime Minister had categorically said that he had brought the laws in the favour of the small and marginal farmers and he was taking these back in the interest of the country. “Political battles would be fought in political arenas. The small and marginal farmers for whom these laws were beneficial are also a family as are the ones protesting. It is our promise that upliftment of farming community would not be like garibi hatao slogan by those who ruined this nation for decades,” said Raman Malik, spokesperson, Haryana BJP.
16-12-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh property grab case: HC grants bail to liquor baron||The Punjab and Haryana High Court on Wednesday granted bail to liquor baron Arvind Singla, who was accused in the Sector 37-property-grab case. The order was passed by justice Avneesh Jhingan, on Singla’s plea arguing that he had been in custody since June 11. The plea further stated that the investigation had been completed and no further recovery was to be made. The ultimate purchaser of the property, Saurabh Gupta, his brother Manish Gupta, and one co-accused, Satpal Dagar, had all been granted bail, the plea further added.“The court passed the bail order considering that the co-accused were also granted bail, while also taking into account the custody period and the fact that conclusion of the trial is likely to take time,” Gautam Dutt, the accused’s counsel said.The FIR in the case was registered on March 2, 2021, at the Sector 39 police station against around 10 people for kidnapping and torturing Rahul Mehta, the only surviving heir of his family, in April 2017 to secure the general power of attorney (GPA) of his 338-square-yard-house. The accused sold the property for ₹2.9 crore in March 2019. The case had been registered following a probe into a 2019 complaint, submitted by Mehta’s tenant Pradeep Ratan to the Senior Superintendent of Police’s office.Besides Singla, former journalist Sanjeev Mahajan, realtor Manish Gupta, Satpal Dagar, brother of a Chandigarh police deputy superintendent of police (DSP) and suspended Chandigarh Police inspector Rajdeep Singh, were amongst the other accused in the case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-property-grab-case-hc-grants-bail-to-liquor-baron-101639595138284.html
16-12-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh MC polls: Special arrangements made for Covid +ve voters||A meeting was held on Wednesday to announce special arrangements for Covid positive voters, who intend to cast their vote on December 24 for the upcoming Municipal Corporation elections. Authorities announced the constitution of a health team, headed by a medical officer that would be deputed with returning officers to ensure smooth functioning..The secretary for local government, Nitin Kumar Yadav, evaluated the arrangements and preparedness for the polls in the presence of Vijay Namdeorao Zade, finance secretary and Sandeep Mishra, secretary of the State Election Commission.The secretary reviewed the status of electoral roll, deployment of police force, including additional forces at sensitive booths to avoid any chaos during the elections, and availability of proper resources.In addition to this, the enforcement of Covid-19 guidelines in election booths/stations was also highlighted. The secretary directed all the deputed staff to ensure appropriate measures are undertaken at the election booths.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-mc-polls-special-arrangements-for-covid-ve-voters-101639594779763.html
16-12-2021||Other||Gurugram air quality remains ‘very poor’||The air quality in the city on Wednesday deteriorated marginally, but continued to be in the ‘very poor’ category for the second day. With wind speed slowing down, the dispersal of pollutants has reduced and this has led to higher levels of pollution, experts said. The air quality index of Gurugram at 4pm on Wednesday was 341, according to the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) bulletin, an increase from Tuesday’s reading of 306. At the four monitoring stations of the city, the AQI reading at Vikas Sadan station was 364, 313 at Teri Gram, 327 at Gwal Pahari and 355 at Sector 51 station. Sachin Panwar, city-based air quality expert, said that due to snowfall and rain in the Himalayan region, there is stronger thermal inversion in the plains. “It is due to this reason that air pollution rises after 5pm and peaks during the night,” he said. An AQI between zero and 50 is considered ‘good’, 51 and 100 ‘satisfactory’, 101 and 200 ‘moderate’, 201 and 300 ‘poor’, 301 and 400 ‘very poor’, and 401 and 500 ‘severe’.Meanwhile, on Wednesday, Gurugram recorded a minimum temperature at 8.5°C, while the maximum was 22.2°C, according to the India Meteorological Department. The IMD said that air quality is likely to improve but will remain in ‘very poor’ category on Thursday and Friday. “After that the air quality will be in poor to moderate category for the next three days as wind speed improves,” the IMD predicted. Meanwhile, the air quality in neighbouring Faridabad also remained in very poor category with AQI at 334, while AQI in Delhi was recorded at 363. According to the System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting And Research (Safar), shallow foggy condition is likely to keep AQI in ‘very poor’ category for the next two days. “The partial cloud conditions and moderate mixing layer height are likely to ensure that dispersal of pollutants is less. But from Thursday onwards, the air quality is going to improve and from Friday significant improvement is likely due to high wind speeds that keeps AQI within ‘poor’ or ‘lower end of very poor’ category,” said the Safar forecast.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/gurugram-air-quality-remains-very-poor-101639594598138.html
16-12-2021||Delhi||Delhi Police joins hands with NLU to train force on legal matters||New Delhi: Delhi Police and National Law University (NLU) have joined hands to impart comprehensive legal education at all levels of basic police training, the police said in a statement on Wednesday. Delhi Police commissioner Rakesh Asthana and NLU vice-chancellor Srikrishna Deva Rao signed a memorandum to this effect at the police headquarters. The partnership aims to disseminate legal knowledge and processes among police personnel, and to make them aware about their role in national development through short-term courses, lectures, seminars, workshops and conferences, the statement said.Speaking on the occasion, Asthana underlined good knowledge of the law is important for the police officers to secure conviction in criminal cases. “Keeping this in mind, investigation has been separated from other law and order duties and a separate wing has been dedicated for this at police station level,” the police commissioner said.NLU has designed the module of legal subjects for Delhi Police officers inducted at different levels such as DANIPS officers, sub inspectors, etc. Till now, various courses on law and legal provisions for the recruits were being conducted with the help of police officers, public prosecutors and other private law experts. The Delhi Police has also upgraded its police training college into the Delhi Police Academy to impart professional training in basic police processes and legal affairs. The NLU faculty will teach courses on the Constitution of India, code of criminal procedures, Indian Evidence Act, Indian Penal Code and other important laws such as Pocso, the Arms Act, JJ Act, NDPS Act, I.T. Act, and Mcoca.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-police-joins-hands-with-nlu-to-train-force-on-legal-matters-101639594542107.html
16-12-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh MC polls: Senior Congress leader jumps ship, backs AAP candidate||In a major setback to the Congress party, senior leader Naveen Gupta on Wednesday announced his decision to support Aam Aadmi Party’s candidate Onkar Aulakh, who is contesting the Chandigarh MC election from Ward No. 11.In a press conference held at Press Club, Gupta said: “People had expectations from me and they wanted to see me as the councilor of their ward, unfortunately it couldn’t happen, so he decided to support the AAP candidate.”Senior leader and former union minister Harmohan Dhawan, Chandigarh AAP president Prem Garg and senior vice president Vikram Dhawan were also present at the event.Meanwhile, Chandigarh Beopar Mandal, an umbrella body of various trade associations, led by its president Chiranjeev Singh and other office bearers, presented a memorandum of demands to Garg. They put forth their expectations of the party fulfilling promises, which included the beautification and cleanliness drives, renovation of public toilets, expansion of parking facilities, provision of marriage palaces in the city, vendor zones issues, streamlining door-to-door garbage collection, rationalisation of water tariffs in the city, taking fire safety measures in markets, issues regarding property tax, provisions for signboards on upper floors and parking in markets on V4 roads, if elected to power.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-mc-polls-senior-congress-leader-jumps-ship-backs-aap-candidate-101639594540822.html
16-12-2021||Delhi||Rating rise good reply to detractors: Jamia V-C says, two years after violence||Jamia Millia Islamia vice chancellor professor Najma Akhtar on Wednesday said the university’s improved NAAC rating was a “good response” to those who thought that the university would not recover after the violence on and near the campus on December 15, 2019, during protests against the Citizenship (amendment) Act. Jamia was accredited with an A++ rating by the NAAC (National Accreditation and Assessment Council) on Tuesday. The central university has improved its rating from 3.09 Cumulative Grade Point Average (CGPA) and an ‘A’ grade which was awarded by NAAC in the last cycle in 2015. The new CGPA stands at 3.61. The ranking comes after a NAAC peer team review was conducted at the university between 6- 8 December. This was the second cycle of assessment by NAAC which gives an A++ grade to an institution that gets 3.51 and higher score. It is the highest grade in its CGPA range.“The NAAC rating is a good response to whatever injustice that had happened with us. This is a response of a civilized society,” Akhtar said at a press conference.“Jamia has moved on and stepped ahead since the day when students were thrashed on the campus. We were with our students back then, and continue to back them. This (improvement in NAAC rating) is an aggressive response that shows that we were not defeated that day,” she said.The Delhi Police stormed the Jamia campus on December 15, 2019, beating up students and damaging the varsity property after protests over the Citizenship (Amendment) Act, or CAA, in the nearby New Friends Colony area took a violent turn, leaving at least 200 people injured and several public and private vehicles as well as public property damaged. The police claim they entered the campus on the heels of a violent mob that took refuge inside it.Recalling the events that unfolded at the university campus, the VC said that the university stood strong despite the turmoil. “Today is a day of remembrance for us. Despite the events of December 2019, we stood up and stepped ahead. All students who got hurt that day have moved on. We will silently remember the day but will also celebrate the fact that we didn’t get demoralized that day. Police barged into the university and thrashed students that day but we were not defeated,” said Akhtar. Following the events of December 15, the university has strengthened security on-premises and regulated the entry of outsiders more strictly. The Delhi Police erased the protest graffiti last year, whatever little remained was wiped out earlier this month. Students say that through the erasure of the graffiti, the administration had removed the last traces that were a testimony to the events of December 2019. Tasneem Zehra, 21, a postgraduate student of the varsity, said, “Back in 2019, we felt that we could voice our concerns and take a stand for the things we believed in. Amid the pandemic, with classes happening virtually and students not being able to meet frequently, there has been a setback when it comes to the expression of political thought. The graffiti within the campus has been erased. It’s unfortunate and the university no longer feels like a space where we can freely express our political views,” said Zehra. When asked if the university had any space for political expression, Akhtar said that the university had only carried out a cleanliness drive ahead of the NAAC review. “The police got the graffiti removed in an unclean manner. So, right before the visit of the NAAC team, we carried out the annual cleanliness drive around the campus to fix things,” said Akhtar. She added that the university did not have a student union, but it continues to engage with students through an alternative mechanism. “I believe that there should always be a students union. Since the matter of students union is subjudice, we have an alternative arrangement in place. We have student committees for different courses and we continue to engage with these students,” said Akhtar||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/rating-rise-good-reply-to-detractors-jamia-v-c-says-two-years-after-violence-101639594478295.html
16-12-2021||Delhi||LG writes to Delhi CM, asks govt to release ₹328 cr to North MCD||Lieutenant Governor (LG) Anil Baijal has written to Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal, requesting the state government to release ₹328 crore to the North Delhi Municipal Corporation so that the civic body can pay the salaries of its staff and reduce interruptions of essential public services on account of repeated strikes by the staff.HT has seen a copy of the letter. When contacted, a Delhi government spokesperson said that instead of recovering thousands of crores of rupees that the Centre owes to the municipal corporations, the civic body was “extorting” money from the state government.According to the letter, dated December 2, the LG said his office received a representation from North MCD commissioner Sanjay Goel explaining the critical financial condition of the corporation, and its inability to pay salaries of a majority of employees, “resulting in unrest and disaffection among the employees and thus affecting the delivery of essential services”.The cash-strapped civic body has faced protests and strikes by the doctors, nurses and paramedical staff, and it has adversely impacted the functioning of six major health institutions run by North MCD, the letter said.“It has been informed that while the Budget Estimates of 2021-2022 for North DMC have been reduced by ₹328.60 crore, additional financial liability on account of enhanced dearness allowance ( ₹240 crores) and pending salaries, pensions etc ( ₹600 crore) has accrued resulting in the present financial crisis. In view of the above, North DMC has requested that an amount of at least ₹328 crore, deducted as per the revised estimates, may be released on urgent basis for immediate payment of pending salaries, pension, terminal benefits, to the employees of the corporation to tide over the present crisis,” the letter said.The LG’s office could not be reached for a comment.Nearly 10,000 staff of the North MCD went on a 24-hour strike on Monday to protest non-payment of salaries for several months, but withdrew it hours later after the corporation officials assured the staff to clear their dues. All three municipal corporations are ruled by the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), and are going through a crippling financial crisis. They have not been able to pay salaries and implement any new projects.Reacting to the letter by the LG, a Delhi government spokesperson said that the state government does not owe any funds to the corporations. “It is the Centre that owes the corporations ₹12,000 crores. The Centre gives grants to all municipal corporations across the country, based on a formula of ₹488 per person of the population. However, it is not paying grants to the three MCDs for the last 17 years. Further, thousands of crores of property tax arrears are also pending from various central government agencies. The MCDs can pay salaries to its employees by recovering these dues. However, it is not doing so to extort and defame the Delhi government,” the spokesperson said.More than 7,000 municipal primary teachers of North MCD are still on the strike, who have refused to acknowledge the agreement reached between the civic body and the umbrella organisation of various staff unions.North MCD standing committee chairman Jogi Ram Jain on Wednesday said the Delhi government has not released funds despite the LG’s letter. “It is our share of transfer duty and basic tax assignment which is not being released by the AAP to create conditions which led to non-payment of salaries,” he alleged.Leader of the house Chhail Bihari Goswami said that the pending ₹328 crore include transfer duty for October and November, along with the tax shares for the second and third quarter.Vikal Goel, AAP councillor and leader of opposition in North MCD House, said the even the Delhi government faced revenue loss due to the pandemic. “On the one hand, the BJP argues that tax share (of the civic bodies) has been reduced in the revised budget, but we should also consider that the Delhi government has also faced loss of revenue due to the pandemic. They are just trying to deflect the blame of their failures on the Delhi government. Where is all the money from the redevelopment projects going?” Goel said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/lg-writes-to-cm-asks-govt-to-give-rs-328-cr-to-north-mcd-101639594419646.html
16-12-2021||Mumbai||SC: Re-notify OBC seats as general, go ahead with polls||Mumbai: Local body elections in Maharashtra this year will be held without any reservation for Other Backward Class (OBC) candidates, the Supreme Court held on Wednesday as it shot down the Maharashtra government’s plea to stay the entire poll process until empirical data on OBC communities can be gathered. In response, the state cabinet in its weekly meeting passed a resolution to request the State Election Commission (SEC) to postpone the polls, slated to be held in several local body seats on December 21. The cabinet resolved that the polls to urban and rural local bodies should not be held without polling in Other Backward Class (OBC) reserved seats. The SEC is however unlikely to concede to the government’s request. A bench of justices AM Khanwilkar and CT Ravikumar directed the SEC to issue a fresh notification, declaring 567 seats out of a total of 2,100 as general category seats instead of OBC seats. These 567 seats were identified by the SEC in its November 24 notification as OBC seats for election to Zilla Parishads and Panchayat Samitis. In its order on Wednesday, the top court declared SEC’s November 24 notification “non est” (non-existent). “We direct that SEC notification with respect to OBC be treated as non est where elections have been notified, and renotify them as general category seats so that elections can take place as per the law. In other words, SEC must issue fresh notification for 27% seats reserved for OBC as general category and initiate election process for these seats along with the remaining seats,” said the court in its order. Noting that the election process for the remaining 73% seats is already underway, the court directed that the counting and declaration of results for all seats would, however, be done simultaneously and on the same day. This will also include bypolls, clarified the bench. The government is now keen to expedite the survey to collect empirical data on OBCs and request the State Election Commission (SEC) to postpone the local polls until the data is collected. Food and civil supplies minister and OBC leader Chhagan Bhujbal said that state government will try to expedite the work to collect empirical data. A budgetary allocation will be made by the legislature in the upcoming winter session. The state cabinet also decided to appoint a dedicated officer to coordinate with the Maharashtra State Backward Class Commission (MSBCC), which will conduct the survey, Bhujbal said. “The administration will work day and night and in close coordination with the MSBCC to ensure that the work has progressed significantly till the next SC hearing slated to take place on January 17. We are hopeful that by collecting data, we are able to convince the top court to allow us to hold the forthcoming elections in February and March with OBC quota,” he said. “Chief minister Uddhav Thackeray has given approval to appoint Sumant Bhange, secretary, general administration department, as the nodal officer to coordinate with various departments and the MSBCC for speedy collection of the data,” he said. The polls are to be conducted in 104 district council seats and 210 panchayat samitis seats in in Bhandara and Gondia, as well as 1,802 seats in 106 nagar panchyats (that govern smaller towns) and four seats in municipal corporations across the state on December 21. Another 7,000 seats from 4500 gram panchayats are going to polls. Advocate Nishant Katneshwarkar, former chief standing counsel of Maharashtra government, said that the state failed to do what 22 other states have done. “Other states collated data, but Maharashtra did nothing. There was no point in approaching the SC again to urge it to allow the polls without have collected data. It was ought to be turned down,” he said. “The government could not collate the data in last two years, even after the SC directed it for the same in December 2019. The state government should not hold any election until the Triple Test compliance was done. It is possible to complete the process of the collection of data in three months. The state government is blaming the Centre for not sharing the SECC data, but let me clarify that it was not meant for the OBC reservation and when our government demanded for it, we demanded it to justify the reservation over 50%,” leader of Opposition Devendra Fadnavis said. “We will have to invite nominations from general category by drawing lottery for women’s reservation. This process will take at least four weeks. Now a call will have to be taken whether the polls for other than OBC segments will be held as announced or if all polls will be postponed for 3-4 weeks. It will be decided once the court order was received,” said an SEC official requesting anonymity. On December 6, the SC had stayed polling in OBC-reserved seats but allowed the rest to go to polls. It further directed the state government to complete its empirical survey on the socio-economic backwardness of OBC communities and grant political reservation based on fresh research. In June, Maharashtra constituted a committee to conduct the survey, but as it would take several months to complete, the state passed an Ordinance in September ensuring up to 27% reservation to OBC candidates so as to ensure that it did not breach the 50% ceiling on reservations. However, the SC struck down the Ordinance last week, and stayed polling in the OBC-reserved seats. The state filed an application on December 10 asking that polling be delayed all together instead of conducting it in what Bhujbal called “a piecemeal manner”. Senior advocate Mukul Rohatgi, appearing for the state on Wednesday, requested the bench to stay the entire election process for three months during which the commission will complete the exercise of collecting data on representation of OBCs in local bodies. “Instead of passing a partial stay only for 27% of OBC seats, grant a full stay. We are also responsible to OBC and cannot them tell them you are out. The commission will complete its exercise in three months. If the exercise satisfies the court, election can take place in one go for all seats. If not, the interim order can revive in April. Let there be a complete stay till March,” he urged the court. Senior counsel Dushyant Dave, representing OBC candidate Rahul Wagh, also pleaded that the election should not go on without reservation for OBCs. “A substantial population of the society which is marginalised will go unrepresented. I beseech this court to allow the existing administration to continue till the data is collected and exercise is completed by the commission,” Dave argued. Unimpressed with these arguments, the court responded: “You are taking us to a very complex exercise. What if the exercise of collecting data is not complete in the next three months? What if this collection of data becomes a subject matter of proceedings before some other court? There will be a lot of more confusion.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/sc-re-notify-obc-seats-as-general-go-ahead-with-polls-101639594417951.html
16-12-2021||Delhi||Will take a call on reopening of Delhi schools on Friday, CAQM tells SC||The decision on reopening schools in Delhi-NCR will be taken by Friday, the Commission for Air Quality Management (CAQM) informed the Supreme Court in an affidavit.The commission, which has eased several restrictions on industrial processes and operation of plants and factories over the past one week, further told the court in its affidavit filed on Wednesday that a review of lifting ban on construction would also be done by December 17.“The representations put forth by various project proponents and associations in the building and construction/ demolition sector, as also by the association of schools/educational institutions are under active examination and consideration by the commission and a decision on these would also be taken soon on or before December 17, based on the impact of the relaxations given above,” the CAQM’s affidavit stated.A bench comprising Chief Justice of India NV Ramana and justices Dhananjaya Y Chandrachud and Surya Kant will consider the commission’s affidavit on Thursday when it resumes hearing of a public interest litigation (PIL) on air quality measures in the Capital.Schools in Delhi have been shut on four instances since March last year – twice owing to concerns over Covid-19, and twice because of air pollution. Expert have, however, underscored concerns over learning loss due to prolonged school closure while not preventing the air crisis that young people face even indoors.The Delhi government had on December 2 closed all schools in the city, hours after it was questioned by the top court for reopening schools despite high pollution levels. Later that day, CAQM came out with a fresh order expanding the closure order to all of NCR.The ban on construction was imposed by the top court on November 24. However, on December 10, the court permitted CAQM to consider requests for relaxing the construction ban in the wake of improvement in air quality.Meanwhile, CAQM apprised the bench of its order to allow resumption of operation of six thermal power plants within 300 kms radius of Delhi as per a letter from the Union ministry of power. It added the ban on entry of trucks into Delhi will continue except for those carrying essential commodities and running on cleaner fuels.The affidavit also informed the top court of further relaxations by allowing resumption of full-time operation of milk and dairy processing units, medicines, drugs and life-saving equipment industries.
16-12-2021||Chandigarh||Jeweller shot at in Pinjore by bike-borne snatchers||Three motorcycle-borne snatchers on Tuesday night shot a jeweller in Pinjore, before fleeing with a 45gram-gold chain worth ₹1.8 lakhs, a laptop and a wallet.The victim has been identified as Harish Ohri, a 55-year-old resident of Pinjore, who owns a jewellery shop, Mangalam, in Khera village.Detailing the incident in his complaint, the victim said, “On Tuesday, we shut the shop and my younger brother Narender left before me. I stopped at Hanuman temple and after paying obeisance, I left for my home on my Activa. At around 9.15pm, as I crossed Forest Complex and reached the bridge of Rathpur colony, three youths on a motorcycle stopped me. Two youths, who were pillion riders, had covered their faces and were holding pistols.” “They snatched my laptop bag, following which I fell on the road. When I resisted, one of them fired at my thigh and snatched my gold chain as well. They fled towards Kalka,” he added.Ohri revealed that the stolen laptop contained his business transactions, while the bag also had his wallet, which had all important documents, cards and ₹8,000 in cash.The victim called his younger brother Narender after reaching the Pinjore police station. He was taken to General Hospital, Sector 6, and later referred to the PGIMER.“The investigation is underway and we are yet to arrest the accused,” said a police official from Pinjore, adding that the victim is stable and undergoing treatment.A case has been registered at the Pinjore police station under section 25 of the Arms Act, 1959 and sections 34 (acts done by several people furthering common intention), 341 (wrongful restraint), 392 (robbery), 394 (voluntarily causing hurt in committing robbery) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/jeweller-shot-at-in-pinjore-by-bike-borne-snatchers-101639594177776.html
16-12-2021||Delhi||Delhi pollution: Curbs imposed by agencies had little impact, say experts||Residents of the Capital breathed “very poor” air for the third straight day on Wednesday, even a month after the central air quality management panel imposed curbs on polluting activities across the National Capital Region (NCR), with experts blaming the coupled impact of inaction against active local pollutants and unfavourable weather conditions for the negligible effects of these restrictions on the city’s pollution indices.Delhi’s air quality index (AQI) continued in the “very poor” zone on Wednesday, with a reading of 363 at 4pm, barely lower than 367 on Tuesday and worse than 331 on Monday, according to data released by the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB).Over the last fortnight, Delhi has recorded one “severe”, nine “very poor” and five “poor” AQI days. The city recorded at least one “moderate” air day during the same period last year, as well as in 2019.The Commission for Air Quality Management (CAQM) on November 16, after directions from the Supreme Court, put in place a slew of measures to check pollution levels, including a ban on construction across the NCR, stopping the entry of trucks carrying non-essential items into Delhi, as well as shutting schools and educational institutions.Experts, however, said that these measures have not had the desired impact due to a combination of “misdirected” orders and inconducive weather conditions.“After Diwali, Delhi has not received a proper western disturbance, which brings some rain and clears out accumulated pollutants. We received one spell of rain, but just 1mm, which was barely enough to clear the air. The accumulated pollutants since Diwali have also not been cleared off because of slower than usual winds. Winds from the northwest have seen several obstructions, which means that by the time they reached Delhi, they weakened and could not properly disperse pollution particles,” said Mahesh Palawat, vice-president (meteorology and climate change), Skymet Weather Services.Palawat said that November and December usually see at least two to three western disturbances each. But this year, only one active western disturbance has hit the city over the two months so far. Maximum wind speeds have also only gone up to 15kmph in the period.Further, the delayed monsoon withdrawal this year also pushed back stubble burning season in Punjab and Haryana, which then peaked around Diwali (on November 4), creating a double whammy situation for the Capital. The remnants of pollution from this period are yet to disperse entirely, said experts.This, they said, can be seen in the severe concentration of aged organic carbon in Delhi’s air currently, according to the Union ministry of earth science’ air quality early warning system. Aged organic carbon (OC2) is an indicator of accumulated pollution in the air.The data showed that from November 3 to December 10, the OC2 levels were between 80µg/m3 and 150µg/m3, which indicates high accumulation.Experts meanwhile said that action against local air pollution sources needed to be amped up.Anumita Roychowdhury, executive director (research and advocacy), Centre for Science and Environment (CSE), said that several pollution analysis and weather forecasting systems in Delhi showed that vehicles were the biggest contributor to the city’s poor air.“We recently released an analysis studying the data from IITM’s (Indian Institute of Tropical Meteorology) decision support system and found that after stubble burning season ended, vehicular emissions were the biggest contributor to Delhi’s pollution, and there has not been much focus on that. Yes, the truck entry has been banned, but after the construction of the Eastern and Western Peripheral Expressways, the share of non-destined trucks entering Delhi is anyway very low,” said Roychowdhury.She added, “We are yet to make any concrete call on increasing parking charges and improving our public transport systems to discourage the use of private vehicles, especially at a time we are witnessing an emergency situation.”CAQM spokespersons did not respond to requests for comment.Other experts also agreed on the need for stronger moves against local pollution sources, while also working on the air shed as a whole.“Forecasts indicate that emissions from vehicles, road dust and biomass burning industries and regional emissions from nearby districts such as Sonipat and Jhajjhar (Haryana) are driving the pollution levels in the Capital. Therefore, actions must be taken to reduce emissions from year-round sources of pollution like transport, road and construction dust, and disposal of municipal waste. Further, restrictions on heavy vehicles entering the city should continue to be enforced,” said Tanushree Ganguly, programme lead, Council on Energy, Environment and Water (CEEW)She added, “The Delhi government should also explore hiking the parking charge to limit the use of privately owned vehicles... Since a significant share of Delhi’s pollution burden can still be attributed to sources outside the city limits, it is important to ensure stringent enforcement and a close watch on its compliance of the CAQM directions in NCR districts as well.”
16-12-2021||Mumbai||Cabinet moves to curtail powers of governor in appointing V-C of universities||Mumbai: The state cabinet on Wednesday approved the appointment of higher and technical education minister to the newly-created position of pro-chancellor of universities and changed the procedure for the appointment of vice-chancellors. Put together, these decisions will curtail the powers of the governor, who is the chancellor of all varsities in the state, and mark another flashpoint in the ruling Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi’s (MVA) ties with state governor BS Koshyari.The state cabinet, which met under Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray, cleared an amendment to the Maharashtra Public Universities Act, 2016, to create the position of the pro-chancellor. The rules for the appointment of vice-chancellors have also been changed. Earlier, a search committee appointed for the purpose would refer five names to the governor, who would shortlist one name. Now, this committee will suggest five names to the state government, which in turn, will send two names to the governor, further curtailing the governor’s powers.Similarly, the state will suggest three names to the governor for the appointment of a pro vice-chancellor. These decisions have been taken in line with the recommendations of the committee under Dr Sukhdeo Thorat, former chairman of the University Grants Commission. This was set up to suggest measures for the streamlined implementation of the National Education Policy, 2020, and to raise the standard of education in the state.“The pro-chancellor will hold charge of the administration of the universities and will streamline their working,” a minister explained. The cabinet also decided to form an equal opportunities panel in universities to draft policies and ensure equal opportunities for underprivileged groups like those from the reserved categories, weaker sections, transgenders and others.While a Raj Bhavan spokesperson declined to comment, Bhartiya Janata Party (BJP) MLA Atul Bhatkhalkar opposed the decision and called it an encroachment on the autonomy of universities. “We oppose this decision. It is an encroachment on the autonomy of universities. The original provisions were meant to keep them separate from the executive,” said Bhatkhalkar. The meeting also decided to rationalise and streamline the stamp duty that is charged on instruments like mortgage by deposit of title deeds, and simple mortgage. “Earlier, we had modified the stamp duty on some articles. The duty on transactions like hypothecation, pawn and pledge, were charged at 0.1 per cent for transactions up to 5 lakh and 0.3 per cent for documents above a value of 5 lakh. But, there were documents which involved similar transactions like mortgage by deposit of title deed, further charge, simple mortgage deeds and crop loans, but were charged at diferent rates. They will now be charged stamp duty at 0.1 per cent and 0.3 per cent respectively,” said a state government official.The government has also capped the maximum ceiling of stamp duty to ₹20 lakh for individuals and ₹50 lakh in case of instruments related to mortgage executed to a consortium of banks. This is expected to boost the state government’s revenues by encouraging the banks to register these documents here instead of other states.Thackeray and Pawar also approved the appointment of three agencies, namely, Tata Consultancy Services (TCS), Institute of Banking Personnel Selection (IBPS) and Maharashtra Knowledge Corporation Limited (MKCL) to conduct recruitments to various government agencies. This comes after the Maharashtra Housing and Area Development Authority (MHADA) had to cancel its examination after a bid to leak the question paper.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/cabinet-moves-to-curtail-powers-of-governor-in-appointing-v-c-of-universities-101639594058226.html
16-12-2021||Delhi||SC stands by Delhi government’s call to register only electric autos||Observing that the national capital is gasping for breath due to air pollution, the Supreme Court on Wednesday affirmed the Delhi government’s decision to give fresh registration only to e-autos as it dismissed a plea by Bajaj Auto complaining against the exclusion of CNG auto-rickshaws.“As it is, Delhi is gasping for breath, we don’t want to add another reason to it. How many contributors are already there? We can’t add one more on the asking of a manufacturer,” said a bench, headed by justice L Nageswara Rao.The bench, which also comprised justices BR Gavai and BV Nagarathna, rejected Bajaj’s application that challenged validity of an October 2021 advertisement by the transport department of the Delhi government, inviting online applications for registration of 4,261 new permits for e-autos.“Residents of Delhi are affected by air pollution. Undoubtedly, a part of this is attributed to vehicles. Even though CNG autos are BS-VI compliant, still there are some carbon releases,” noted the bench in its order, while adding that the Aam Aadmi Party government’s decision was also in compliance with the 2020 electric vehicle policy of the Union government.The court also junked Bajaj’s contention that the advertisement was arbitrary and discriminatory to manufacturers of existing CNG three-seater auto-rickshaws (TSR), besides restricting market opportunities to one class of vehicles over another, without rational basis or intelligible differentia.“We don’t agree with the applicant that the advertisement is in violation of their fundamental right, for there are 92,000 CNG autos on roads in Delhi. Replacement of those can be done by vehicle manufacturers,” said the court.It further clarified that exemption granted to e-autos and other battery-operated vehicles from registration under the amended Motor Vehicles Act and the rules framed thereunder cannot mean addition of e-autos can be done over and above the cap of 100,000, as fixed by the Supreme Court in its judgment in 2011.During the hearing, Baja Auto argued that the 2011 top court order did not intend to put a cap on number of TSRs running on clean fuel such as CNG or electricity. It added that the new TSRs are BS-VI compliant and has improved to 90% as compared to BS-I model.Opposing Bajaj’s plea, senior advocate Rahul Mehra, appearing for the Delhi government, said that CNG auto-rickshaws cannot be compared to e-autos, adding there is a proposal to switch to electric vehicles with a view to decarbonise the transport sector.“92,000 CNG auto-rickshaws have already been registered in Delhi and there is a continuous process of replacement of old CNG auto rickshaws,” Mehra said.Senior counsel ADN Rao, who assists the court as amicus curiae, also sought dismissal of Bajaj’s application, arguing that the amendment to the Motor Vehicle Act exempts registration of e-autos and talks only about payment of registration fees.The court took on record the submissions of the Delhi government and amicus, holding that the decision to register only e-autos “cannot be said to be arbitrary”. It also noted in its order that there have been requests to life the cap on CNG autos in Delhi but that issue will be decided in a separate proceeding.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/scstands-by-delhi-government-s-call-to-register-only-electric-autos-101639593938036.html
16-12-2021||Chandigarh||No Covid cluster in Chandigarh: All 135 samples from Manimajra test -ve||All 135 random samples that were collected from Manimajra on Tuesday have tested negative for Covid-19, indicating that the area is not a cluster of infection, the Chandigarh health department said on Wednesday.After a 20-year-old man was found infected with the Omicron variant and five of his family members tested Covid-19 positive, the department had decided to check transmission rate of the infection in the area, as a precautionary measure.“Since the man and his family members were in home quarantine for the past two weeks, we were expecting a low positivity rate in the area. In UT, there is no cluster or hot spot of infection as the transmission is being restricted to only close contacts. Usually, only the family members of one infected person are coming out to be positive,” said Dr Suman Singh, director health services, Chandigarh.Mini Covid care centre to reopenAs the daily infection count is rising in Chandigarh and neighbouring areas, the UT health department on Wednesday decided to restart the facility of Mini Covid Care Centre at Bal Bhawan, Sector 23.While directing the management body of the centre, UT health secretary Yashpal Garg said, “In last few days, the number of Covid cases are increasing and there are many cases where the required isolation facilities are not available within the respective homes of the persons. Hence, there is a need to start the centre again, especially for quarantine purposes. The authorities are requested to make necessary arrangements and ensure restarting the facility by December 20.”15 more test positive in tricityAs many as 15 fresh infections of Covid-19 were reported in the tricity on Wednesday, against 11 cases on Tuesday. The maximum eight cases were reported from Chandigarh, followed by four from Mohali and three from Panchkula. However, no death was reported.In Chandigarh, the new cases surfaced in Sectors 15, 20, 30, 41 and 43 besides Bapu Dham and Khuda Lahora.For the past 11 days, the single day tally of the tricity has been recorded in double digits. Meanwhile, the active caseload stands at 160, with 75 patients in Chandigarh, 58 in Mohali, and 27 in Panchkula.Chandigarh has so far reported 65,659 positive cases, of which 64,508 have been cured and 1,076 people have died. In Mohali, total cases recorded to date are 69,039. Among these, 67,908 patients have recovered and 1,073 have died. Panchkula’s caseload of 30,880 includes 30,474 recoveries and 379 casualties.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/no-covid-cluster-in-chandigarh-all-135-samples-from-manimajra-test-ve-101639593821396.html
16-12-2021||Delhi||Uphaar tragedy: HC notice to police on Ansals’ plea against jail term||The Delhi high court on Wednesday sought the city police’s response on pleas by real estate barons Sushil and Gopal Ansal seeking suspension of their seven-year jail terms awarded for evidence tampering in the Uphaar cinema fire tragedy case.Justice Subramonium Prasad issued notices to the parties, including the complainant, Association of Victims of Uphaar Tragedy, and also asked the jail superintendent to produce the medical records of the convicts on the next date.The Ansals had moved the high court challenging a December 3 trial court order refusing to suspend the conviction and jail term awarded to them in the evidence tampering case.The case is related to tampering with the evidence in the main fire tragedy case in which the Ansals were convicted and sentenced to a two-year jail term by the Supreme Court.Fifty-nine people lost their lives and several others were injured in the fire at the Uphaar cinema.During the trial in the main case, the Ansals, along with five others including a then court staff, had torn and defaced crucial documents of the prosecution evidence, to secure their acquittal.On October 8, the court convicted the Ansal brothers and three others for abetment of offence, causing disappearance of evidence, criminal breach of trust by a public servant and criminal conspiracy.On November 8, the magistrate court had handed over seven-year imprisonment to all the five convicts while imposing a fine of ₹2.25 crore each on the Ansal brothers.On Wednesday, senior advocate Mukul Rohatgi, appearing for the petitioners, argued that the seven-year term exceeded the maximum punishment that can be granted in the case. He submitted that the sentencing was on a “wrong legal premise”.He emphasised that even in the main case, the petitioners were convicted and sentenced to two-year jail term by the Supreme Court which subsequently released them on payment of ₹30 crore fine each, after taking into account the prison time already undergone.The matter will be heard on January 6.While dismissing Ansals’ plea for suspension of sentence till the appeal against the conviction by magisterial court is decided, the sessions’ court had said that the case was one of the gravest of its kind and the offence appeared to be the outcome of a calculated design on the part of the convicts to interfere with the course of justice.The sessions court had also refused to suspend the seven-year jail term each to former court staff Dinesh Chand Sharma and two others -- P P Batra and Anoop Singh -- in the case and release them on bail.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/uphaar-tragedy-hc-notice-to-police-on-ansals-plea-against-jail-term-101639593758023.html
16-12-2021||Delhi||Nearly 10 million adults in Delhi fully vaccinated against Covid-19||Nearly 10 million residents of the national capital have been completely inoculated against Covid-19, showed government data, and the city is likely to cross that figure on Thursday, exactly 11 months after the nationwide coronavirus disease vaccination programme kicked off.According to data from the CoWin dashboard, as of 11pm on Wednesday, 9.94 million people in Delhi had received both doses of a coronavirus vaccine, roughly half of the city’s 20 million population, and just about 2/3rds of the city’s 15 million adults (according to January 2021 electoral data) eligible for shots. At the time of going to press on Wednesday, the city was just over 53,000 doses away from completely vaccinating 10 million adults.The landmark is especially significant in the wake of the Omicron variant of the Sars-CoV-2 virus, which has sparked global fears of a resurgence of the pandemic, even as experts have reiterated that vaccines, masks and distancing are still the best protection against the infection. So far, 56 people across the country have been sequenced with the Omicron variant, of whom six are in Delhi. Experts, meanwhile, asked for a decision on booster doses of vaccines while the Covid-19 caseload stayed low.So far, around 14.5 million people in Delhi have got at least one shot of a vaccine, showed CoWin data, which means the city is days away from inoculating every adult with at least one dose.As of 11pm on Wednesday, the city administered 106,681 vaccine doses, showed the dashboard. The split between first and second doses was not immediately available. Delhi has over the past week administered an average of 109,362 vaccine doses per day. Between December 1 and 14, just over 72,000 people on an average got their second shot in Delhi, which means the Capital is set to cross the 10-million complete inoculations mark on Thursday.Daily vaccinations in the Capital have picked up in the past few weeks, especially since news of the Omicron variant of Sars-CoV-2 emerged globally on November 25.In the seven days that ended November 25, Delhi administered an average of 87,309 vaccines every day, according to the CoWin dashboard. A week later, on December 2, this number had shot up to 100,476 jabs a day. On December 9, it went up further to 128,120 doses a day. In the six days since then, this number fell marginally to 107,190, but is well above the rate the city logged three weeks ago.A Delhi government spokesperson said, “The Delhi government would like to congratulate all the doctors, nurses and health care professionals who have taken the baton of our vaccination program forward efficiently.”“The government is reaching out to each and every eligible resident and motivating them to come forward to get their doses as soon as they’re due and will continue to show the same resolve in protecting all the people of Delhi from Covid-19,” the statement added.The vaccinations are also another milestone for a city that has endured four separate Covid-19 surges since the virus first set foot in March last year, and so far lost 25,100 people to the infection, according to state government data. The most brutal of these waves was the fourth, between April and May this year, which left health infrastructure overrun, medical workers overwhelmed, and led to crematoriums running out of space. Over 760,000 people were infected in that period, while over 13,000 died of the infection in those two months alone. Cases in the city began to peter out towards the middle of May on the back of a lockdown, which the state government imposed from April 19.The Covid-19 caseload has remained at record lows since the fourth wave ebbed, and both the fresh infection count and test positivity rate have been well within control for much of this time, which experts have previously said is likely due to the steady rate of vaccinations and the sheer scale of the fourth wave, which would have left a vast majority of the city’s population infected.Delhi’s sixth serological survey, a preliminary report of which was released in mid-November, showed that 97% of the city’s population had antibodies that react with the Sars-Cov-2 virus.“We don’t know how the virus is going to behave in future. Therefore, we need to remain preparers and the preparations should start now when the numbers are low,” said Dr Vikas Maurya, director and head of respiratory medicine department, Fortis Healthcare.“Now is the time to take a decision on booster dose, especially for the high risk persons, and also begin vaccinating children. Children may not run the risk of developing severe disease but there is always a risk of them transmitting to others who may get severe symptoms,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/nearly-two-thirds-of-delhi-s-adult-population-fully-vaccinated-against-covid19-101639593637722.html
16-12-2021||Delhi||Sisodia launches theme song of Ambedkar play by Indian Ocean||New Delhi: Deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia on Wednesday launched the theme song of the play based on the life of BR Ambedkar which will be organised at the Jawaharlal Nehru Stadium from January 5.“This musical play is being organised by the Kejriwal government in the 75th year of Independence so that the country can express its gratitude towards Babasaheb and his contribution in laying the foundation stone of modern India. The theme song, titled Bhimachi Jai, of the play has been composed by the famous music band Indian Ocean,” said Sisodia, while launching the song at the School of Specialised Excellence at Kalkaji with a performance by the band.The five-and-a-half-minute-long song exhorts Ambedkar’s contribution to the country: “Jab tak Jan Gan Man ka maan rahega, jab tak ye samvidhan rahega, Jab tak hindustan rahega…Babasaheb ka naam rahega”. The grand play based on the Ambedkar’s life will have 50 shows at the Jawaharlal Nehru stadium. “Eminent people are involved in the direction, art and creation of this play. A 100-foot stage has been built in the stadium. Anyone can come to watch it and it will be absolutely free for the public. Its production is of international standards -- perhaps a first in India,” Sisodia said. The announcement about the mega play was first made by chief minister Arvind Kejriwal earlier this month.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/sisodia-launches-theme-song-of-ambedkar-play-by-indian-ocean-101639593519498.html
16-12-2021||Lucknow||Commuters in a jam as traffic crawls in Lucknow||Lucknow: Commuters had a tough time on Wednesday, with severe traffic jams reported in most parts of the city. Traffic on Shaheed Path remained stuck for hours in the evening. People caught in the traffic snarls took to social media to raise complaints with the traffic police and Dial 112 to report about the situation, besides calling the authorities for help. “I was returning home from my office in Chinhat via Shaheed Path. It usually takes me 30 minutes to reach home but today it took me almost three hours to cover the same distance,” said Mahesh Pandey, who lives in Sushant Golf City. With vehicles stuck on Shaheed Path, traffic began piling on the service lanes and exits. The exits near Indira Gandhi Pratishthan, Arjunganj, Rae Bareli Rad and Awadh crossing remained jammed for hours with vehicles moving at a snail’s pace. People on their ways to the airport, hospital and railway station had a really hard time. Reportedly, many missed their evening flights out of Lucknow as they were caught in the traffic jams. The situation worsened between 5pm to 7pm when people returning from their offices further increased the volume of vehicles. Senior traffic and police officials were deployed across the city to clear the traffic. Additional director general (ADG), Law and order of UP Police Prashant Kumar also reached Arjunganj exit on Shaheed path to assist the traffic department. Senior traffic officials of Lucknow Police Commissionerate could not be reached for comment on the traffic situation. Many senior officials even switched off their phones and were unreachable. According to traffic police, the traffic congestion on Shaheed Path was caused after two trucks broke down and blocked traffic. A political event in Indira Gandhi Pratishthan and mismanagement of flow of vehicle exiting from the venue also contributed to the problem.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/commuters-in-a-jam-as-traffic-crawls-in-lucknow-101639593517817.html
16-12-2021||Other||Grap violation: Gurugram civic body collected only 38% of total fine amount||In the two months since the Graded Response Action Plan (Grap) was implemented in the city, the Municipal Corporation of Gurugram (MCG) has issued penalties worth ₹29.15 lakh for Grap violations but managed to recover just ₹10.91 lakh, or around 38% of the total fine amount, shows the data obtained from the civic body. Between October 15 and December 14, the MCG issued 281 fines for Grap violations of which penalties have been recovered from only 106 violators, the data reveals.The MCG officials admitted that low recoveries are a cause of concern and they are working on ways to tackle the issue.“We have taken cognisance of low recovery of Grap challans. We are planning on either attaching the requisite fine to the property tax dues of the violator (building owner) or adding a clause that non-payment will lead to action against the violator by the Haryana environment court in Faridabad,” said Subhash Yadav, nodal officer of environment wing in MCG and the district forest officer.As per the MCG data, the worst recovery in fines is for violations related to construction ban and construction and demolition (C&D) waste left in the open. During the last two months, the MCG issued 144 fines for C&D waste violation, of which penalties from 60 violators has so far been recovered. Recovery for construction violations is even worse with the MCG only recovering penalties from four of the 20 violators, a mere 20%.After C&D waste violations, the highest number of fines were issued for uncovered vehicles which resulted in 52 people being penalised, shows the data.“The main reason behind the low recovery in Grap fines is that it does not allow on-the-spot payment. After issuing a fine, a violator has to make the payment either online or visit the MCG office to do so. Unless they are working or living nearby, most violators do not make the payment and as a result recoveries tend to remain low,” said a senior MCG official privy to the matter.On November 23, deputy commissioner Yash Garg had pulled up several public bodies, including the MCG, for lack of anti-pollution activities and directed them to increase its enforcement against Grap violations as well as initiate measures to check localised air pollution.The MCG has increased its water sprinkling activities by deploying 30 tractors and eight fire tenders for the task, each responsible for dispersing over 16,000 litres of treated water across 14km of roads in the city during an eight-hour window. The civic body is also using 13 mechanised sweeping machines to check dust pollution, the officials said.Experts said that without proper enforcement, including recoveries, efforts to check air pollution will be futile. “It has been almost a month since stubble burning season ended. However, pollution levels are still very poor across NCR. The prime reason for this is lack of enforcement on localised measures during the night. Pollution data shows a stark contrast between night and day figures,” said Sachin Panwar, a city-based air quality expert.Panwar said that the contrast in day and night time air quality index (AQI) levels indicated that Grap violations during the night are largely going unchecked. “Usually, there is no adverse change in weather pattern between night and day. The higher levels of AQI during the night indicate that localised air pollution violations as a major factor for the deteriorating air. Until night surveillance is done properly and fines are also recovered, violations will continue to go unchecked,” said Panwar.Grap was approved by the Supreme Court in 2016 and was first implemented in 2017 to check high levels of air pollution across the National Capital Region. Each year it is introduced from October 15 onwards.
16-12-2021||Delhi||Delhi govt to induct fellows to help forest dept officials||The Delhi government will induct 28 “green fellows”, including three specialists, from December 21 to aid the functioning of its understaffed environment and forest departments and free up its staff members for ground-level activities and enforcement, officials said.The fellows -- three specialists, 10 fellows and 15 associate fellows -- are joining the government departments for a period of four years as part of a Green Youth Fellowship under the ‘Green Delhi’ mission.“Each fellow, based on their educational qualification and knowledge, will be assigned under a senior officer and be asked to provide data and information on different fields such as air pollution, water pollution or e-waste. Depending on the requirements, the fellows will be distributed across the forest and wildlife department and the Delhi Pollution Control Committee (DPCC) too,” said the official, on condition of anonymity.Officials said the fellows, a mix of professionals and young students, will free up a number of its technically qualified personnel who are currently forced to perform clerical office tasks due to shortage of staff.Reena Gupta, advisor to the Delhi government, told HT that the plan was to use these fellows under Delhi government’s flagship programmes. “We will utilise them for both field activities and in office, largely assigning them roles in some flagship programmes..., which includes the citizen engagement cell that will soon be made operational in the DPCC. There is also a plan to involve them in a tree census for Delhi,” Gupta said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-govt-to-induct-fellows-to-help-forest-dept-officials-101639593278157.html
16-12-2021||Mumbai||Lukewarm attendance as schools reopen||Mumbai: Offline school for Classes 1 to 7 started to a lukewarm response on Wednesday as state board and civic schools opened their gates to students for the first time in nearly 20 months. A majority of schools started physical and hybrid classes for students from Classes 4 to 7 on the first day and are hoping to bring back younger students over the next few days, said school authorities. As per information shared by the BMC education department, 92.28% schools reopened for Classes 1 to 7 on Wednesday. Of the 6.53 lakh students attending Classes 1 to 7 across 2,300 schools, only 1.8 lakh students (27.5%) attended physical classes on the first day of school, despite parents of 2.35 lakh students giving consent forms. “There was a stark difference between the response by parents on the declaration form provided prior to reopening and the number of students that eventually turned up on Wednesday,” said the principal of a state board school in Mazgaon. In the last week of November, the state cabinet decided to reopen schools in the physical mode for Classes 1 to 4 in rural areas and Classes 1 to 7 in urban areas starting December 1 while the older classes have already been following the hybrid model since October 4. This move was delayed by two weeks by BMC taking into account rising Omicron cases in the state. On December 14, the BMC released another notification clarifying that all schools will reopen for classes 1 to 7 starting December 15. Most schools started the week with necessary precautions including thorough sanitisation of classrooms and common areas. Stickers and posters were put up across the campus to reiterate social distancing norms and compulsion on wearing masks. Benches in classrooms were marked to ensure students sit at a distance from each other and temperature of staff and students were checked at the entry. Most ICSE and CBSE schools remained shut for Classes 1 to 7 on Wednesday as many are end of semester exams are on. Some state board schools were surprised with the student turnout on first day. “We started classes for students from Class 3 and 4 on Wednesday and plan to start classes for Class 1,2 and 5 to 7 from Thursday. The response has been very positive and nearly 45% students attended physical classes on day one. We ran the school in batches in order to accommodate all and ensure social distancing,” said Fr Norbert D’souza, principal (secondary section) Holy Cross High School, Kurla. Civic schools in Mumbai, Thane and Navi Mumbai witnessed the highest attendance among schools as nearly 75-80% students showed up for school on Wednesday. “As per the state guideline, schools were sanitized and we ensured that all teachers are tested and vaccinated. Students were allowed to enter classrooms only after their oxygen levels and temperatures were checked,” said Bhausaheb Dangde, Chief Executive Officer, Thane Zilla Parishad. The School Bus Owners Association (SBOA) revealed that none of the buses under the group ferried students on Wednesday. “Only schools with their own fleet of buses functioned. We are facing staff crunch as more than 1600 bus drivers have opted for higher paying jobs while the lady attendants too have found alternative jobs. We cannot start plying buses until the government allows us some tax rebate,” said Anil Garg, president of the association. Parents demand reopening of schools for non-state board students Meanwhile, associations of parents from ICSE, CBSE and other international schools in the city have started online petitions and have also approached BMC authorities demanding that physical classes reopen for all children. “State government rules should be applicable to every school. While state board schools have already started physical classes, why are ICSE and CBSE schools let off the hook? Our children are waiting to get back to school,” said Gayatri Sabhrawal, parent and member of Parents Association of Mumbai. Voices: Riddhi Salve, mother of a Class 6 student of Mumbai Public School, Dadar Nearly 80% parents are willing to send their kids for offline lectures as the school is taking care of safety of all students. Shiv Sawant, father of Class 3 student of Balmohan Vidyamandir, Dadar The school has not yet reopened for the smaller classes, hence my son could not attend school on Wednesday. We are keen on sending him to school Kalpana Dwivedi, principal, Balbharti Public School, KhargharOur initial plan was to reopen schools for younger students from December 1 itself but barely 20% parents had submitted consent forms. Now we are waiting for parents to submit their consent forms again and only then we shall reopen school for lower batches||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/lukewarm-attendance-as-schools-reopen-101639593221487.html
16-12-2021||Lucknow||Yogi govt to UPPCL: Provide 24x7 power to all till March||Lucknow: The Yogi Adityanath government has directed the UP Power Corporation Ltd (UPPCL) to provide 24X7 electricity to consumers of all categories in cities and villages from mid-December till March, apparently with an eye on the assembly elections that are only less than two months away, people in the know of things revealed. According to them, to make sure that the corporation has adequate cash flow to purchase additional power from producers, the government is going to make an allocation of more than ₹1600 crore in the supplementary budget as additional government subsidy apart from providing it ₹5,000 crore immediately. The supplementary budget proposals will be tabled in the state assembly on Thursday. According to the budget proposal accessed by HT, the energy department has proposed a financial assistance of ₹5,000 crore for the UPPCL immediately to execute the government’s directions for supply of uninterrupted electricity in the state from December 15, besides making a budgetary allocation of ₹1600 crore as additional government subsidy. “The UPPCL needs this much amount so that it may ensure uninterrupted power supply as directed by the government by clearing pending dues to power generating companies,” an energy department official said. The energy department has pointed out that the corporation’s revenue collection had been adversely affected since the second wave of the Covid-19 even as the power purchase cost was growing. “It is necessary to provide ₹1600 crore to the UPPCL in the form of supplementary budget or as the state grant for the current financial year in addition to the regular government subsidy,” says the proposal. Currently, UPPCL provides 24-hour power only to big cities while district headquarters and villages get electricity for 22 and 18 hours respectively. OTS extended Meanwhile, the UPPCL on Wednesday announced more extension of the one-time settlement scheme for defaulters till December 31, according to a spokesman. “The extended OTS that was to be over on December 15 has been extended till December 31 on the chief minister’s directives,” he said. 
16-12-2021||Delhi||Delhi Police move 280 beggars from CP to shelters||At least 280 people who were found begging in Connaught Place were shifted to different shelter homes in the past one month as part of the Delhi Police’s drive to make the popular market free of beggars, officials associated with the drive said on Tuesday.The market association and the Delhi Police said Connaught Place will become Delhi’s first market to be “beggar-free.”Records of the 280 men and women, who were picked up and shifted to shelter homes run by city NGOs, showed that almost 90% of beggars detained from CP lived outside the Hanuman Temple. Of them, there were at least seven families, who had been living on the road outside the temple for the last 15 years.Their children either begged or worked as street vendors in the outer circle of CP, according to their claims when they were interviewed by NGOs.Police officers aware of the action over the last one month said their investigation also led to the arrest of 10 drug traffickers, who were selling drugs such as heroin and marijuana to the homeless and some beggars in Connaught Place. All 10 have been booked under different provisions of the NDPS Act.“We found out that many beggars, who were living near Hanuman Temple had come from places as far as Maharashtra, Rajasthan, and parts of south India. They were also drug users, who were exploited by the drug mafia. Some of them were forced to sell drugs distributed by the traffickers,” said a police officer, aware of the details.Rajesh Kumar, executive director of the Society for Promotion of Youth and Masses(SPYM), one of the NGOs rehabilitating the beggars and vagabonds, said that they have shifted around 300 beggars.“CP is the first market to be free of vagabonds and beggars. The Delhi government too helped us by providing shelter and food to these persons. During our one-to-one interaction with them, we also learnt that many children were told to beg by their parents. We have counselled both the children and their parents. The process of rehabilitating them will take around six months to a year. The work has started,” Kumar said.Kumar said that there were many persons, who were addicted to drugs. “They have been referred to the drug de-addiction centres. For the first time, we have seen that the homeless have not returned to the roads in CP.”The drive has also resulted in the decline of complaints by shoppers. Police records show that in the last 15 days (December 1 – December 15), there has not been a single distress call complaining about vagabonds or drug addicts snatching their cell phones or bags. In November, the police received there were six such snatching calls . There were 15 calls in October, 7 in September.“Until the clean-up drive happened, we would get calls related to shoppers being harassed by some vagabonds in the subways of Connaught Place. For the last 15 days, the number of such calls have also stopped,” a police officer, aware of the development said.Atul Bhargava, president of the National Delhi Traders Association, said that the market associations are holding regular meetings with police “to bring back the glory of CP”. “Among the many people living in the CP streets, there was an English speaking homeless elderly man too. I always saw him at A block. He too has been rehabilitated by an NGO roped in by the police. If there are no encroachments by vagabonds and beggars, we will successfully restore the glory of CP,” Bhargava said.
16-12-2021||Delhi||Delhi: North MCD seals 8 liquor vends, issues show cause notices to 10 others||The North Delhi Municipal Corporation has shut five liquor vends and passed sealing orders for three others for alleged violations related to building by-laws and carrying unauthorised construction, civic officials said on Wednesday. A report on the action against liquor shops by North MCD revealed that showcause notices were also issued to 10 other liquor shops.Standing committee chairman Jogi Ram Jain said three liquor shops were sealed in Civil Lines and one each in Karol Bagh and Rohini. “Most of these units had illegal construction and unapproved amalgamation of properties. The provisions of unified building by-laws (UBBL) were not followed which has led to sealing action against them. The drive to check the building norms and property or conversion charges in the new liquor outlets...will continue in the coming days,” Jain said.Chhail Bihari Goswami, the leader of the house in North MCD, said the civic body will continue the crackdown: “Shops are being opened under new excise policy with no official intimation or NOC requirements being communicated to the local bodies. We have all the right to check violations in these shops.”Delhi government spokespersons did not respond to requests seeking comment.East MCD sealed three liquor outlets last Friday.Meanwhile, Delhi BJP chief Adesh Gupta on Wednesday said that the party will hold protests across the city on January 3 if the new excise policy is not withdrawn.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhinorth-mcd-seals-8-liquor-vends-issues-show-cause-notices-to-10-others-101639592857691.html
16-12-2021||Delhi||Delhi airport: Phase 1 of smart project to revamp parking stands finishes||The smart apron project at Delhi airport’s Terminal-1 (T1), which proposes to revamp the existing 55 parking stands to accommodate a maximum of 82 aircraft, has completed phase one with 19 new stands made operational after statutory approval from the Directorate General of Civil Aviation (DGCA), said the airport operator Delhi International Airport Ltd (DIAL) on Wednesday.The apron of an airport is the area where an aircraft is parked for boarding passengers or loading goods.While T-1 had 55 parking stands for aircrafts prior to the expansion work under Phase3A of the master plan, the new smart apron will revamp some of the existing structures to make space for 82 slots, including 22 ‘contact’ stands and eight Multiple Apron Ramp System (MARS), which can accommodate much larger aircraft. DIAL said the smart apron was being built in three phases, with 19 stands completed in the first phase.The airport operator also said that once complete, the smart apron will considerably reduce air traffic congestion as the new design will improve air traffic flow.“The new layout will facilitate improved air traffic flow and enhance airside safety. The creation of new contact stands will also lead to reduction in the number of Ground Support Equipment (GSE) required. This will ensure faster aircraft turnaround time and improve safety in the apron area, resulting in improved operational efficiency on the airside,” said a DIAL spokesperson.Under Phase3A of Delhi airport’s expansion plan, T1’s capacity is being doubled from 20 million passengers per annum to 40 million passengers per annum, with both departures and arrivals being brought under one roof. The airport expansion also includes creation of a new runway and elevated cross taxiways for better movement of aircraft. The initial deadline to complete the T1 expansion is towards the end of 2022.The airport operator estimates that with the new smart apron, there will be an estimated reduction in 70kg of CO2 emissions per flight and once the 22 ‘contact’ stands are made operational, a further reduction of 255kg of CO2 emissions per aircraft during the turnaround process for domestic airlines.“The completion of the first phase of works for the expansion of T1’s new smart apron is another step towards enhancing the infrastructure and passenger experience at the Delhi airport to make it future-ready. The new smart apron will not only facilitate improved passenger experience by improving operational efficiency and safety on the airside, but also contribute towards significantly reducing harmful CO2 emissions, underlining DIAL’s commitment to environment-friendly outcomes and initiatives,” said I Prabhakara Rao, Deputy Managing Director, GMR Group.After being shut for over 18 months due to the Covid-induced lockdown, airport operations resumed at T-1 from October 31 this year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-airport-phase-1-of-smart-project-to-revamp-parking-stands-finishes-101639592379874.html
16-12-2021||Lucknow||Nadda, chief ministers of BJP-ruled states visit Ayodhya, offer prayers||The chief ministers of eight Bharatiya Janata Party-ruled states and the party’s national president JP Nadda paid obeisance to Ram Lalla at Ram Janmabhoomi in Ayodhya on Wednesday after reaching the pilgrim town from Varanasi. Engineers of the Larsen and Toubro gave a presentation of the ongoing construction work of Ram temple to Nadda and the visiting chief ministers. Uttar Pradesh culture minister Neelkanth Tewari welcomed the BJP chief and the chief ministers on their arrival at the Ayodhya airport. Acharya Satyendra Das, head priest of Ram Janmabhoomi, performed puja with Vedic rituals as the chief ministers, along with their wives, worshipped Ram Lalla.Champat Rai, general secretary of the Sri Ram Janmabhoomi Teerth Kshetra Trust, was present on the occasion along with other Trust members.After the rituals, Champat Rai briefed the BJP chief and the chief ministers about the ongoing construction of Ram temple. Rai took them on a round of the Ram Janmabhoomi campus and apprised them of the foundation work which was recently completed. Nadda enquired about the ongoing construction work and its next stage.Vinod Mehta of Larsen and Toubro, who is heading the construction team for the Ram temple project, gave a presentation of the ongoing construction work before the visitors. He apprised the CMs’ delegation about the temple’s design and also informed them that no iron was being used in the construction.During the presentation, Rai informed the delegation that construction work of Ram Mandir would be completed by the end of 2023 and thereafter devotees will be allowed to worship Ram Lalla there. Earlier in the day, after reaching Ayodhya, Nadda along with the CMs visited Swarg Dwar ghat on the bank of the Saryu to worship the river. Amid chanting of Vedic mantras, the priests welcomed the chief ministers and their wives at the ghat where special arrangements were made for puja. Sashi Kant Das, a priest, recited Vedic mantras through a public address system and issued instructions to the CMs for the rituals. His disciples helped the CMs. The proceedings at the ghat continued for a little more than half an hour. From the ghat, the CMs’ convoy left for the Hanuman Garhi temple where Ramesh Das, the head priest, welcomed them and Nadda. All the CMs attended special aarti of Lord Hanuman. After the aarti, Ramesh Das offered ‘prasad’ to the visitors.Those present on the occasion included Madhya Pradesh chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan with his wife, Goa CM Pramod Sawant with his wife, Biplab Deb of Tripura and his wife, Manohar Lal Khattar of Haryana, Himanta Biswa Sarma of Assam and his wife, Pema Khandu of Arunachal Pradesh and his and N Biren Singh of Manipur and his wife.Deputy CMs of Arunachal Pradesh Chowna Mein and his wife, Chandrakant Kavlekar of Goa and his wife, Y Pattan of Nagaland were also there.Bihar deputy CMs Tarkishore Prasad along with his wife, and Renu Devi were also present. The others there included Rajya Sabha MP Vinay Sahasrabuddhe, Trust members Anil Mishra, Mahant Dhinendra Das and Vimlendra Mohan Pratap Mishra. BJP MP from Ayodhya Lallu Singh, party MLA Ved Prakash Gupta and Mayor Rishikesh Upadhyay welcomed the visitors at Ram Janmabhoomi. Later, the BJP president and the chief ministers left for Lucknow from the Ayodhya airport. 
16-12-2021||Mumbai||BMC unseals Bollywood star buildings||MUMBAI: The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) on Wednesday unsealed four Bandra buildings in which Bollywood stars and their families reside, after 108 contacts – including actors Malaika Arora and Alia Bhatt – tested negative for Covid-19. Actors Kareena Kapoor-Khan and Amrita Arora, and actor Sohail Khan’s wife Seema Khan had tested positive for Covid-19 on Sunday. Kapoor-Khan’s help tested positive on Wednesday. The buildings in which they reside were sealed on Tuesday. The fourth sealed building is where producer Karan Johar lives. The three persons found positive had attended a dinner event organised by Johar on December 8. “We have unsealed the buildings today,” BMC additional commissioner Suresh Kakani said on Wednesday. He added that of the 145 high-risk contacts in these buildings, 108 tested negative. “The spread is not much. Hence, we unsealed the buildings. However, the respective floors of positive patients remain sealed,” he said. The reports of the remaining 37 contacts are awaited. Meanwhile, in Juhu, Maheep Kapoor, wife of actor Sanjay Kapoor, and her daughter Shanaya tested positive on Tuesday and Wednesday respectively. Maheep, too, had attended Johar’s dinner event. Shanaya posted on Instagram on Wednesday that though she had tested negative four days ago, she tested again as precaution and was found positive. “I have tested positive for Covid-19,” Shanaya said in her post. “As of today, I have mild symptoms, but I am feeling okay and I have isolated myself. I had tested negative four days ago, however, while testing again as a precaution the results came positive.” Dr Ajit Pampatwar, medical officer of health (MOH) from BMC’s K-West ward, said, “We have sealed only one floor in the building where the patients stay,” Dr Pampatwar said. Kapoor-Khan’s sister, actor Karisma Kapoor, was also tested as part of BMC’s contact-tracing protocol. Her report was negative. Johar and his family, too, tested negative. The reports of the remaining 37 contacts are awaited. BMC said it is trying to contact designer Manish Malhotra, who was also at Johar’s house on December 8. “My family and I and everyone at home have done their RT-PCR tests and with the grace of god we are all negative,” Johar posted on Instagram on Wednesday. “I would like to clarify that a (sic) 8 people intimate gathering is not a party… and my home which we maintain strict protocols in, is certainly no hotspot of Covid.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/bmc-unseals-bollywood-star-buildings-101639587037175.html
