17-12-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana: Gol Market to get replica of the iconic Clock Tower||Model Town’s Gol Market will soon be getting a replica of the iconic Clock Tower, which stands tall in the old city area.  The heritage Victoria Memorial Clock Tower had been established by the British in 1906 near Chaura Bazar. The clock tower is being built as part of a ₹3.6-crore project to beautify parks and build roads in the area, of which ₹1 crore will be spent on the replica and for beautification of the Gol Market. Selfie point to be set up Congress Ward 48 councillor Parvinder Lapran said that the 25-feet tall structure will come up at a park in the market, and a selfie point will also be set up near the tower. “Ornamental plants worth ₹10 lakh will be planted in the park and on entry points of the market. Eight other parks situated in the Model Town area will also be beautified under the project, which will be undertaken by the Ludhiana Improvement Trust (LIT). A two-month deadline has been set for its completion.” Appreciating the move market association president Amarjit Singh said, “There is a dire need to give the market a facelift as nothing concrete has been done after 1995. The park is well maintained and the fountain does not function properly. The project will certainly increase the footfall in the market.” Parking space to be demarcatedWith the market facing a shortage of parking space, authorities are planning to demarcate the parking area around the park, and a proposal has also been made to reduce the radius of park by a few feet. Lapran said that a separate area has been designated for street vendors and parking space will be demarcated to facilitate the visitors and shopkeepers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-gol-market-to-get-replica-of-the-iconic-clock-tower-101639765683088.html
17-12-2021||Other||NR’s Lucknow Division resumes Intercity train services||letters@hindustantimes.comLUCKNOWThe Northern Railways (NR) has resumed its Intercity trains, often called the lifeline for daily passengers, bringing much relief to those who commute daily for work/business to neighbouring towns and districts including Barabanki, Pratapgarh, Varanasi, Kanpur, Uthretia, etc. More than a dozen intercity trains resumed service.“We have resumed most intercity trains in order to bring relief to daily passengers,” said Jagtosh Shukla, senior divisional commercial manager (DCM), Lucknow Division, NR.The intercity trains that are more familiar as MEMU (Mainline Electric Multiple Unit), passenger, local trains or unreserved ticketed trains were called off last year in March after the Covid-19 crisis wreaked havoc, resulting in the lockdown and other government restrictions. The Railways had also stopped issuing general tickets to cut down the passenger rush.On November 21, 2021, NR had resumed the first intercity train between Lucknow and Kanpur. The officials said that NR was also going to re-introduce general (unreserved ticket) compartments in the trains.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/nrs-lucknow-division-resumes-intercity-train-services-101639765563786.html
17-12-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana | Air ticket scam jeopardises nearly 300 travellers’ Canada dream||Around 300 people hoping to travel to Canada have been left in a lurch after their travel agents bought air tickets from a fraudster, police said on Friday. The travellers had spent up to ₹2.3 lakh on a one-way ticket, and the travel agents who fell victim to the fraudulent deal had collectively spent around ₹3 crore on the tickets.It is learnt that the accused had already bought 400 group tickets from airlines in August for ₹70,000, and had started selling the tickets to travel agents in September. With the term in Canadian colleges due to start in January, and limited flights available in the wake of the coronavirus pandemic, the tickets had sold for as high as ₹2.3 lakh.The dealer had taken the travellers’ details from the travel agents and promised to send a physical ticket by December 12. However, no ticket was sent, and he later stopped answering the travel agents’ calls. Later, the agents found out that the Passenger Name Record (PNR) number given to them by the dealer was fake.After local travel agents lodged a complaint against the dealer, commissioner of police Gurpreet Singh Bhullar marked a probe to the additional deputy commissioner of police.One of the travel agents who fell victim to the scam said, “Many of us have returned the money to travellers from our own pocket so that our business does not suffer. We are not sure if we will get our money back.” Students say they are likely to miss classes this semester as only a limited seats are available. Arvind Arora, who had taken admission in a business administration course in Canada, said, “I paid ₹2.3 lakh for a one-way ticket, but two days before I was scheduled to travel, my agent said there was some problem with the tickets. There are no more tickets available and I have already paid my college fee.”
17-12-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana producing the brightest minds in business: Punjab governor||The Ludhiana Management Association organised its 43rd anniversary and award function on Friday at Hotel Park Plaza to felicitate the city’s industrialists and entrepreneurs.Punjab governor Banwarilal Purohit was the distinguished guest on the occasion. The event was conducted and managed by members of LMA, including president Sandeep Kapur, vice-president Neeraj Jain and general secretary Harpreet Kang.The Vardhman award for entrepreneurship was presented to Amit Gupta and the Dayanand Munjal award was presented to Dr Bishav Mohan, chief cardiologist at DMCH, for his exceptional work during the Covid pandemic.The Trident award was presented to Raghav Choudhary and Harichand award to Jitendra Manchanda. Arjun Sethi was awarded the Sohan lal Pahwa award for engineering. The last award was presented to the late DL Sharma, which was received by his daughter-in-law.While congratulating the winners, Purohit said, “The award winners did a great job in handling the pandemic situation. Ludhiana is largely concentrating on the small-scale industries and producing the brightest minds in the areas of business. We need to create an ecosystem where young people are job givers rather than seekers.”Purohit visits PAUDuring his visit to Punjab Agricultural University (PAU) on Friday, Purohit conducted a meting with administrative and police officials including deputy commissioner Varinder Sharma and police commissioner Gurpreet Singh Bhullar. Purohit reviewed different government scheme and directed the officials to ensure that public benefits from both state and Union government schemes.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-producing-the-brightest-minds-in-business-punjab-governor-101639765501313.html
17-12-2021||Lucknow||Amit Shah says cooperative sector a hub of corruption in previous regimes, but Yogi govt cleaned everything||Union minister for home and cooperation Amit Shah on Friday said the cooperative sector in Uttar Pradesh was a hub of corruption under previous regimes before 2017 but the Yogi government cleaned everything in the last over 4.5 years. “Under previous SP (Samajwadi Party) and BSP (Bahujan Samaj Party) governments, cooperative societies had turned into family and caste citadels,” said Amit Shah, who was in Lucknow to inaugurate cooperative projects of over ₹155 crore.“Under Behenji and Babua, there was rampant corruption in cooperative societies. But the Yogi government cleaned everything,” said Amit Shah. On the occasion, Amit Shah inaugurated 28 grain godowns of the Uttar Pradesh State Warehousing Corporation having a capacity of 1.40 lakh metric tons. These warehouses are located in 19 districts across Uttar Pradesh. Amit Shah also inaugurated cyber security operation centre of a cooperative bank and inaugurated 13 new branches of the bank. He also spoke about Kashi Vishwanath Corridor inaugurated recently by Prime Minister Narendra Modi.“No one talked about Hindu religious places because everyone was into vote bank politics,” said Shah.But the Modi government is re-estabilishing the pride of Hindu religious places, Shah said.“We don’t know how many people had sacrificed their lives for these Hindu religious places,” said Shah.Soon, a magnificent Ram temple will come up in Ayodhya, he added. “With UP’s support, BJP came to power at the Centre twice,” he said.Amit Shah also said the Centre will soon come up with a new cooperative policy. The Union minister for home and cooperation said this while inaugurating three-day seventh national convention of Sahakar Bharati in Lucknow on Friday.“The government is preparing to introduce new cooperative policy. It will be introduced soon,” Amit Shah said while addressing the gathering.He also stressed on audit and free and fair elections to make the cooperative societies robust. Becoming the first minister for cooperation was part of a big journey and ensuring that the journey culminated at its intended destination was a big responsibility, Amit Shah said. Stressing on making cooperative societies effective, Amit Shah stated that soon these societies would be computerised. He also said government was planning to promote organic farming. “To start with, the government will introduce a new system in two states for the promotion of organic farming. In these two states, government will provide all facilities to farmers who are into organic farming through cooperative societies,” Amit Shah said. He mentioned the success of the Amul Cooperative Society of Gujarat through which 36 lakh women were earning their livelihood respectfully. He also shared the success stories of other cooperative societies like Lijjat Papad and IFFCO. Sahakar Bharati was working in 27 states, he said. “The demand to set up a cooperative ministry was there for a long time and it was PM Modi, who floated the idea of this ministry when he became the PM for the second time and I had the good fortune of becoming the first minister,” Shah said. The minister requested delegates to visit Kashi Vishwanath Dham in Varanasi.Soon, people will be able to pay obeisance to Ram Lalla at Ram temple in Ayodhya, the construction work of which was going on, he said. Chief minister Yogi Adityanath also expressed his views on the occasion.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/amit-shah-says-cooperative-sector-a-hub-of-corruption-in-previous-regimes-but-yogi-govt-cleaned-everything-101639765440403.html
17-12-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana: Banking services hit for 2nd consecutive day amid strike over privatisation of PSBs||Banking services in Ludhiana were hit for the second consecutive day as members of the United Forum of Bank Unions (UFBU) continued their strike on Friday as part of a nationwide protest against the decision of the Union government to privatise two public sector banks (PSB).A protest was held by hundreds of bank employees outside the State Bank of India near Fountain Chowk, where they slammed the Union government’s move and alleged that its purpose is to benefit corporate houses. Employees of State Bank of India (SBI), Punjab National Bank, Bank of Baroda, Central Bank of India and Canara Bank among others participated in the strike.The rally was addressed by president of the Punjab Bank Employees’ Federation PR Mehta, general secretary of Joint Trade Union Council DP Maur, UFBU convenor Naresh Gaur and president of Punjab Bank Employees’ Federation Pawan Thakur among others.They stated that the protest is being held against the Union government’s plan of tabling the Banking Laws Amendment Bill 2021 in the Parliament.Mehta said that the only issue being raised against the PSBs is of huge non-performing assets (NPAs), in which the major share is of big corporates. “Successive governments have taken initiatives such as debt recovery tribunals and SARFAESI Act, but these steps have not yielded the desired result. Therefore, the banks were forced to write off those loans, resulting in huge losses. The PSBs have suffered a loss of ₹284,980 crores because of this,” he said. It is the wilful defaulting of the corporate and big business houses, which have dragged the banks into this crisis, added Mehta. Gaur said that time and again, PSBs have also been used to bail out ailing private sector banks such as Global Trust Bank, United Western Bank and Bank of Karad, etc. “In the recent past, it was Yes Bank, which was bailed out by SBI. In the recent past, RBL Bank, Bandhan Bank and four small finance banks have also posted losses. RBI has cancelled the license of Subhadra Local Area Bank. The public also fears putting their money in private banks,” he said.“This will only benefit the corporate defaulters and remove all the bad loans from public glare and silently write them off. Banks and insurance companies deal with people’s money. Privatising them means handing over people’s money to private vested interests,” said Gaur, while adding that the two day-strike was announced to awaken the government from deep slumber and further action will be taken as per the directions received from the banks’ union at national level. The banks will open on Saturday as per the schedule. Gill MLA Kuldeep Vaid also participated in the protest and assured that the Congress will take up the matter at the state and national levels. Banking transactions of ₹1,600 crore hitAs per the union members, banking transactions of over 1600 crores were hit in the industrial hub during the two-day strike, due to which the public and industry faced a harrowing time. Gaur stated that banking transactions of over ₹800 crore are witnessed in the city on a daily basis. Industrialists rued that the payments have been delayed and they will have to pay interest on the delayed payments of installments to banks.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-banking-services-hit-for-2nd-consecutive-day-amid-strike-over-privatisation-of-psbs-101639765268051.html
17-12-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra uses drones to deliver Covid vaccines for Jawhar tribals in remote village||Mumbai: As many as 304 Jawhar tribals at Zap village, a rough terrain covered with thick forest with no connectivity at Palgarh district received the first dose of Covid-19 vaccination on Friday. All thanks to a first of its kind drone service, initiated by the health department of the Palghar District administration, that transported 300 doses of Covid-19 vaccines.The drone flew from Rajiv Gandhi Stadium, Jawhar to Primary Health Centre (PHC) at Zap village, 25 km by road in just 10 minutes.Chief minister Uddhav Thackeray has congratulated the Palghar District Collector, health department and staff for successfully making vaccines available to remote areas of Palghar district through drones. The CM noted that the transportation of vaccination through drones was a pioneering example in Palghar district to provide medical assistance. In future, the same can be done for supplying blood and organs.District collector Dr Manik Gursal shared, “The pilot proposal to use drones to transport vaccines was submitted to the Director General of Civil Aviation (DGCA), which they approved a few days ago resulting in successful completion of our mission.”The drone experiment was made possible with the efforts of Blue Infinity Innovation Lab and IIFL Foundation in collaboration with the state Public Health Department.While additional chief secretary (health) Dr Pradeep Vyas informed that the drone can carry medical cargo of 5 kg.“The experiment was a success and we will transport essential emergency medicines, blood, vital organs for transplant and other materials through drones as it will help the government to transport them to rough and inaccessible terrain,” said Dr Vyas who also plan to use the same technique to transport vaccination using drone technology in Nandurbar district.Dr Vyas, Zilla Parishad (ZP) CEO Siddaram Salimath, ZP president Vaidehi Vadhan, district medical officer Dr Dayanand Suryavanshi, and other officials were present to witness this happen today.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-uses-drones-to-deliver-covid-vaccines-for-jawhar-tribals-in-remote-village-101639765140113.html
17-12-2021||Chandigarh||RT-PCR test kits stolen from Ludhiana railway station||A carton of RT-PCR tests and assorted medical equipment was stolen from the Ludhiana Railway Station on Thursday evening. However, none of the 100 CCTV cameras at the station captured the theft. The stolen wares belonged to a team of the health department that has been stationed opposite the entrance gate of the station, near Platform 1, for over a month to offer free Covid tests to passengers. The camera installed over the health team’s desk was facing away and therefore failed to capture the incident. “The camera is either focused towards passengers coming down the escalators or from the opposite side. It is not a 360 degree camera,” said a security official, requesting anonymity. “The health team should not have left their possessions unmanned. It is possible that a passenger could have mistakenly taken the box with their luggage,” the security official said. Surprised over the lack of leads, a member of the health team, said, “It is surprising that none of the CCTV cameras recorded the theft as we are stationed right at the front gate, which one would think would be well monitored.” GRP, RPF out of sync Both the Government Railway Police (GRP) and Railway Protection Force (RPF) have installed a few cameras at the same locations at the railway station, which has led to overlapping of footage and wastage of resources.“Director general of police (DGP) Sanjeev Kalra has directed the GRP to change the locations of the overlapping cameras,” a security official said.An official privy to the matter said, “The RPF installed the cameras without consulting the GRP. The SP has now directed us to replace the defunct cameras with the extra cameras. The GRP does not have enough funds to purchase new devices.” GRP superintendent of police Amandeep Kaur said, ‘The railways have already installed enough cameras at the railway station, but to secure more locations, the position of a few cameras will be changed and defunct cameras will be replaced soon.”The cameras at the railway station have been installed by the GRP, RPF, local police and parking authorities.Special railway magistrate conducts surprise checking A surprise inspection was conducted by the special railway magistrate of Punjab, Munish Garg, at the Ludhiana railway station on Friday.According to the officials ₹14,100 in fine was recovered from 40 offenders by the checking team which included officials from Government Railway Police, Patiala, Railway Protection Force, Ludhiana, Jalandhar police personnel and three members of the magistrate staff.The team held the illegal vendors along with those who were found crossing the railway tracks, offenders of chain pulling and those who were found drunk at the railway station or trains.While the checking team held 14 new offenders on Friday at the Ludhiana railway station and recovered a total of ₹1,800 fine from them; 26 old cases were also disposed of and a fine of ₹12,300 was imposed.A senior official stated that the SRM usually conducts the checking inside the trains, but due to the pandemic, it was done at the station.Another official stated that the checking team would conduct surprise checking at some other railway station post Ludhiana on Friday itself.Meanwhile SRM said that instructions have been given to the railway security to keep an eye on the violators. “Many people travel without ticket, which ultimately is a loss to railways and also a serious offence. Our teams pay surprise visits and catch such violators with the help of local officials,” stated Garg. 
17-12-2021||Other||25 e-buses set to ply in Sangam city soon||In the next few months, 25 state-of-the-art battery-operated e-buses will be plying on the roads of Sangam city. The 25-strong fleet of buses has already landed in the city and is expected to start operating by January-February next year.These fully air-conditioned buses have several features including announcement of next stoppage before reaching it (like in a metro train), indicator for low battery (before 20 km of total discharge), music system, a mike with driver to interact with passengers as and when required, GPS system in every bus and a CCTV near driver’s seat to have a full view of passengers. To start with, these buses have been registered with the district regional transport office (RTO) and will be operating on two major routes of the city. The city will receive another set of 25 buses in a few months, after which, three additional routes will be added, officials said. For operating these e-buses, authorities of Prayagraj City Transport Service limited (PCTSL) have chalked out a detailed route map. Besides, a mega charging station has been developed near the old Yamuna bridge on Naini side wherein 25 electronic-buses can be charged at a time. This charging station is being built on an area of around 6,000 square metres. TKS Bisen, managing director, PCTSL, said, “We have already received 24 buses and one more will come on Saturday. These buses are being registered with the local RTO and will be operating on roads in a few months”. The official clarified that in the first phase, the e-buses will operate on two routes: Shantipuram (Phaphamau) to Raymond Crossing (Naini) and Trivenipuram (Jhunsi) to Puramufti (Manauri). “Later, when we get the additional 25 buses, they will be operated on three other routes which would be Railway Station to Lalgopalganj, Baihrana to Shankargarh and from Civil Lines to Pratappur,” said the MD, PCTSL. The bus facility will be available from 6am to 8pm and each vehicle would have 28 seats. Among these, two seats would remain reserved for differently abled persons while 22 passengers can stand by holding the hangar. For the safety of passengers, the bus will only proceed for its journey after both gates are fully closed.PHOTO CAPTION: The smart buses that have arrived at Prayagraj (HT)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/25-e-buses-set-to-ply-in-sangam-city-soon-101639764900177.html
17-12-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab polls 2022: BJP, Amarinder announce alliance||The Bharatiya Janata Party and former chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh’s Punjab Lok Congress on Friday formally announced to join hands to fight the state assembly polls scheduled early next year. The announcement came after Amarinder on Friday called on BJP Punjab in-charge and Union minister Gajendra Singh Shekhawat at his residence in the national capital. After more than an hour-long meeting, both Amarinder and Shekhawat addressed the media and announced the alliance between the two parties. “After seven rounds of talks, today I confirm (and) make it clear that the BJP and Amarinder will contest assembly elections in Punjab together. Topics like seat-sharing will be discussed later,” said Shekhawat, adding that the seat distribution will be announced at an “appropriate time”. “We are ready and we are going to win this election. The decision on seat-sharing will be taken on the seat-to-seat basis, with winnability being the priority. We are 101% sure of winning this election,” said Amarinder. The former two-time Punjab CM also announced the alliance on Twitter, posting a photo in which he can be seen hugging Shekhawat. “We have formally announced a seat adjustment with the BJP for the 2022 Punjab Vidhan Sabha elections,” he wrote.This was the second meeting between Amarinder and Shekhawat. Earlier, the BJP leader had visited Amarinder’s farm house near Chandigarh to discuss the alliance. The saffron party is also holding talks with Rajya Sabha member Sukhdev Singh Dhindsa’s Akali Dal (Sanyukt), and a meeting between the two is expected in the next two days. BJP likely to be senior partnerAccording to senior BJP leaders privy to the talks, the national party will be the bigger partner in the alliance and may contest on at least 60 seats in the 117-seat Punjab assembly.“The party is adamant on contesting on seats dominated by Hindu and scheduled caste population. It also wants to keep more focus on Majha and Doaba regions,” a senior party functionary said. Sources said both Amarinder and the BJP are likely to give the final shape to the alliance by the end of this month. Amarinder had led the Congress to a decisive win in 2017, defeating the Akali-BJP alliance by wresting 77 seats in the Punjab assembly. In September this year, he resigned as the CM following months of infighting with Punjab Congress chief Navjot Singh Sidhu. Later, he left the Congress and floated his own party. The BJP in 2017 contested on 23 seats, but managed to win only three in one of its worst performances in Punjab. The SAD-BJP alliance, in fact, came third with 18 seats, behind the Congress and Aam Aadmi Party (20 seats). Last year, the SAD parted ways with the saffron party over the contentious farm laws.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-polls-2022-bjp-amarinder-announce-alliance-101639764661102.html
17-12-2021||Mumbai||Malavika’s Mumbaistan: A Coming of Age||It was the year 2000; the 1000th and last year of the 2nd millennium; the 100th and last year of the 20th century; and the 1st year of the 2000s decade.Lara Dutta had won the Miss Universe crown; the planet was just emerging from the Y2K jitters (I kid thee not, look it up!); a centennial earthquake of 6.5 on the Richter scale had hit Iceland; Sony had released its PlayStation 2 and AD Singh had called to invite us to the opening of his latest venture: the Olive Bar and Kitchen in a little known nook in Khar/Bandra. (The joke was that the exact location changed, depending on how much Sula Chardonnay you had imbibed).Now in 2000, AD was not exactly an unknown entity. Like so many others in Mumbai, I too had experienced the affable restaurateur and consummate SoBo boy’s many offerings: I had schmoozed over post-dinner jazz and cheesecake at Just Desserts; had clambered shakily onto his ambitious Suzie Wong schooner, with its fairy lights twinkling enticingly off the Queen’s necklace; had out-bowled three of the country’s leading billionaires on a memorable evening at his Bowling Company at BKC and yes, had even shaken a leg at Copa Cabana his hot and sweaty Latino dive in Marine Drive, a place that redefined the term ‘hole in the wall’…There was no doubt about it: in 2000, AD along with his fellow peers in the stand-alone F&B restaurant universe like Sanjay Narang, Rahul Akerkar and Moshe Shek -was a man to watch –a mover and shaker who would change the way Mumbaikers dined out and partied. *** But what had greeted me on that first visit to Olive twenty-one years ago convinced me that Singh had stolen a march over his contemporaries. In comparison to his previous offerings, Olive appeared decidedly next level.To begin with, there was its look: Mykonos -inspired white stucco walls, juxtaposed with azure blue crockery; quirky bric-à-brac handpicked by his designer wife Sabina; a snaking al fresco dining area and bunches of bougainvillea that melded seamlessly with the Portuguese -influenced ambience of what was until then still a sleepy, suburb featuring fairy tale cottages named Ave Maria and Peace Haven. It was easily Singh’s most well-conceived ‘concept’ restaurant down to its last detail.Then, of course, there was the matter of its location. Barely coming to terms with the idea of stand-alone restaurants for its fine dining needs, Mumbai’s smart set with its aspirations set firmly in SoBo had not yet got its head around to venturing outside the Laxman Rekha of its comfort zone that ended more or less at Haji Ali.Olive quickly put paid to that. Before the sea link was even a glimmer in Ajit Gulabchand’s eye, Singh had managed to make Khar-Bandra a glamorous F&B destination. With the arrival of Olive, the action began to shift decisively northwards and soon word got around that the city’s movers and shakers- when they weren’t moving and shaking - at Indigo or Fire and Ice or the Bay View Bar, or whichever avatar of the Taj’s disco was the flavour of that month -could be encountered at Olive.And it’s this that sealed the venture’s success. The very first evening (or was it an all-day brunch that had segued into happy hour and then into sundowners-who can tell?) had seen a converging of what would become the ‘Olive Crowd’: impossibly long-legged girls in LBDs who were on their way to their first record/modelling gig/Bollywood film, smart young media executives making deals over Martinis and Bollywood’s brat pack making its after hour moves in the restaurant’s PDR.There was no doubt about it, Singh’s dream of a restaurant that would tick all the boxes of the Italian idea of la dolce vita, a place where good food was not the only offering on the menu, but just another ingredient in the mix, along with music, laughter community and dancing- was a foregone conclusion. And thus, Mumbai got its first taste of the lifestyle restaurant. *** Before its arrival on the scene, the idea that a restaurant needed to have more on its menu than just good food was an unfamiliar one, experienced mainly in places outside the restaurant universe. Certainly, the verandah of the Bombay Gymkhana where Singh as a young schoolboy must have spent many a happy hour could have been an early inspiration. Here, you could arrive for your customary plate of chicken -mayo sandwich and chips, but the highlight undoubtedly would be the familiar faces you ran into, over the course of your afternoon.Similarly at cafe Samovar, along with your coveted order of dahi wada and boti roti roll there was the added frisson that you might just be compelled to share your table with an artsy legend in his lunchtime. And at Juhu’s Sun N Sand, or the Taj’s Sea Lounge, the food was only incidental to the pleasure afforded by spending quiet time reading or contemplating the view.Olive’s instant success was that it combined all these experiences. Here, during a course of an evening you could eat pasta as a Roman would; then schmooze at the bar with old friends and new; then attend a cultural or wine event at the same location; and then, of course, dance away the rest of the night on its table tops.It is easy to see why Olive’s arrival had such an impact on the city’s F&B landscape and why it was the great disruptor in so many ways. *** Singh says that what pleases him most about Olive reaching its milestone anniversary is the fact that the children of those who partied there in its early days –are now doing the same.In many ways, this is a validation of his pioneering of the lifestyle restaurant concept.Even today, twenty-one years after it opened its doors, the concept holds good. OPA, Soho House, the coming of Quorum, Jolie’s and the soon to be opened Bay Club in BKC centre, where customers can eat network, read, work, take calls, party and smash cheap crockery to their heart’s content, attests to this.Whether these establishments go on to capture the public imagination and become long-lasting landmarks on the city’s F&B landscape in the same way, is too early to say.But as someone who has always believed that there’s more to eating out than the food on one’s plate and who has dined at Olive on the first day of its opening- I can be excused for taking a certain proprietary satisfaction on its twenty-first anniversary.After all, it just goes to prove that the more things change the more they stay the same: Twenty-one years since it opened its doors, the party appears to be still on for the next generation of ‘Olivians.’Just as twenty-one years after Lara Dutta brought home the Miss Universe crown, Harnaaz Sandhu has done so too!||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/malavikas-mumbaistan-a-coming-of-age-101639763820694.html
17-12-2021||Lucknow||Top BJP leaders to flag off‘Jan Vishwas Yatras’ in poll-bound Uttar Pradesh tomorrow||LUCKNOW Top leaders of the Bharatiya Janata Party, including party president JP Nadda, union ministers Rajnath Singh, Nitin Gadkari and Smriti Irani, UP chief minister Yogi Adityanath and Madhya Pradesh chief minister Shivraj Singh Chauhan will flag off the party’s six ‘Jan Vishwa Yatras’ in poll-bound Uttar Pradesh on Sunday. The party aims to communicate the achievements of the five-year term of the BJP government in Uttar Pradesh to the masses through the six yatras. Chief minister Yogi Adityanath would flag off a yatra from Mathura’s Govardhan area in the presence of union minister Mahendra Nath Pandey, the Lok Sabha MP from Chandauli, former union minister Santosh Gangwar, the Lok Sabha MP from Bareilly, and Etah MP Rajvir Singh ‘Raju’, son of former chief minister late Kalyan Singh. Mathura has been in the news ever since deputy chief minister Keshav Prasad Maurya had tweeted about the Hindu holy city yet to find its grandeur. During his recent visit to Mathura, Adityanath had promised that just like Ayodhya and Kashi, several big-ticket schemes and projects had also been sanctioned for Mathura. The Mathura yatra would cover Aligarh, Hathras, Agra, Firozabad, Mainpuri, Etah, Kasganj, Badaun and Shahjahanpur and conclude in Pilibhit. BJP lawmaker Vidyasagar Sonker, union surface transport minister Nitin Gadkari, deputy chief minister Keshav Prasad Maurya and union minister Sanjeev Balyan would flag off another yatra from Bijnor’s Vidur Kuti. This yatra would cover Muzaffarnagar, Saharanpur, Shamli, Baghpat, Meerut, Ghaziabad, Gautam Buddha Nagar, Bulandshahr, Hapur, Amroha, Moradabad and Sambhal and conclude in Rampur, a Samajwadi Party bastion. Defence minister Rajnath Singh would flag off the yatra from Jhansi in the presence of deputy chief minister Dinesh Sharma and union minister of state Sadhvi Niranjan Jyoti. This yatra would pass through Lalitpur, Mahoba, Banda, Chitrakoot, Fatehpur, Hamirpur, Jalaun, Auraiya, Etawah, Farrukhabad and Kanpur (dehat) and conclude in Kanpur. BJP chief JP Nadda would flag off the other yatra from Ambedkarnagar, the birthplace of socialist icon Ram Manohar Lohiya where union education minister Dharmendra Pradhan and union minister of state Kaushal Kishore would be present. This yatra would cover Ayodhya, Gonda, Balrampur, Shravasti, Bahraich, Lakhimpur, Sitapur, Hardoi, Unnao, Rae Bareli and Barabanki before concluding in Kakori near Lucknow. Madhya Pradesh chief minister Shivraj Singh Chauhan would flag off another yatra from Ballia in the presence of UP BJP chief Swatantra Dev and UP minister Dara Singh Chauhan. This yatra would cover Mau, Azamgarh, Gorakhpur, Deoria, Kushinagar, Maharajganj, Siddharthnagar, Sant Kabir Nagar and Basti. Union minister Smriti Irani would flag off the sixth yatra from Ghazipur, where UP ministers Brajesh Pathak and Swami Prasad Maurya would be present. This yatra would cover Chandauli, Sonbhadra, Mirzapur, Prayagraj, Kaushambi, Pratapgarh, Bhadohi, Varanasi, Jaunpur and Sultanpur before concluding in Amethi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/top-bjp-leaders-to-flag-off-jan-vishwas-yatras-in-poll-bound-uttar-pradesh-tomorrow-101639763699700.html
17-12-2021||Mumbai||18-hour block on CR on Sunday, no local trains between Kalwa & Mumbra||MUMBAI: Passengers travelling by central railway (CR) local trains on Sunday will have to face inconvenience as an 18-hour block will be operated for the construction of the fifth and sixth railway lines between Thane and Diva railway stations.The maintenance block will be operational between 8am on Sunday and 2am on Monday during which period, slow trains will be diverted to the fast lines between Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj Terminus (CSMT) and Kalyan and Diva and Mulund railway stations. No local train services will be operational between Kalwa and Mumbra railway stations. “Passengers boarding trains from Kopar and Thakurli stations are advised to do so from Dombivali and Kalyan, respectively,” a statement issued by the central railway read.The railway administration has arranged to operate buses in coordination with Thane and Kalyan-Dombivali bus transport during the block period for passengers. A few outstation trains will be cancelled, including three trains on Saturday, nine trains on Sunday, and two on Monday.The central railway in September operated a 10-hour block between Kalwa and Mumbra railway stations for the construction of the fifth and sixth railway lines. The fifth and sixth railway lines between Thane and Diva are part of the Mumbai Urban Transport Project (MUTP 2B) which got approval in 2008.Once completed, the new railway lines will enable segregation of outstation from local train services on central railway till Kalyan. A hundred new local train services will be introduced on the central railway mainline between CSMT and Kalyan railway stations after the railway lines are commissioned.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/18hour-block-on-cr-on-sunday-no-local-trains-between-kalwa-mumbra-101639763678546.html
17-12-2021||Lucknow||Panchayat election duty death: HC seeks govt reply on petition challenging compensation criteria||The Allahabad high court on Friday asked the state government to file its reply in a petition challenging government order which provided compensation to the family members of only those employees who died within 30 days from the date of Panchayat election duty due to Covid-19. The bench comprising justice Ashwani Kumar Mishra and justice VD Chauhan passed the order in a petition filed by Subhash Chandra of Hapur. The petitioner’s claim for compensation was rejected by government saying that his wife died after the period of 30 days from election duty, and the period was beyond the cap put by the government order (GO). Therefore, he was not eligible for any compensation. Appearing on behalf of the petitioner, advocate Mahesh Sharma submitted that government order dated June 01, 2021, provides for payment of ex-gratia of ₹30 lakh to the family members of the deceased employees, who were infected by COVID-19, during the 2021 panchayat election in UP. However, clause 12 of the said GO was arbitrary and discriminatory, as it puts a cap of 30 days. “A Covid-19 infected person can die within 30 days or even after 30 days of getting infected. The cap of 30 days put by the state government is arbitrary,” the petitioner said. The petitioner’s claim was rejected by the concerned authorities saying that the date of election duty of the petitioner’s wife was April 29, 2021, and she died on June 02, 2021, i.e. after the period of 30 days as provided in the GO. The next hearing in the case will be in the month of February.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/panchayat-election-duty-death-hc-seeks-govt-reply-on-petition-challenging-compensation-criteria-101639763676975.html
17-12-2021||Lucknow||Kashi new sustainable model of urban development: Yogi||VARANASI: Chief minister Yogi Adityanath said on Friday that Kashi was a scintillating example of amalgamation of India’s rich tradition with modernity, which every city of the country should aspire for. The city had been equipped with modern facilities while preserving its ancient culture and this was due to Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s vision and efforts, he said. Yogi was speaking at the all India mayors’ conference organised by the Uttar Pradesh urban development department here. Mayors from various states across the country are participating in the conference. An exhibition has also been organised on the sidelines of the event from December 17 to 19 to showcase the key achievements of the Government of India as well as the Government of Uttar Pradesh in urban development. CM Yogi said: “Seven years ago, Kashi was very different from what it appears today. The lanes were narrow and dirty while live electric wires hanging lose from the poles posed risk to people’s lives in almost every locality. At that time, open defecation along railway tracks was a common sight. But now, with the building of lakhs of houses with toilets as well as community toilets, the picture of Kashi has changed. It’s a transformed city due to of the honourable PM’s efforts.” Yogi said that sustainable urban development played a key role in the economic development of a state and would contribute a lot to making India a $5 trillion economy by 2025. The chief minister said that Kashi had set new standards of development. He emphasised the importance of having an integrated control & command centre and integrated traffic management for developing a city into a smart city. In this context, he mentioned the role played by the ICCC in security management during the Kumbh fair. He said that best facilities were being developed in 60 cities of UP which were selected under AMRUT (Atal Mission for Rejuvenation and Transformation) and added that 17.5 lakh people had got houses under the PM Awas Yojana while LED lights were illuminating 16 lakh localities in UP.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/kashi-new-sustainable-model-of-urban-development-yogi-101639763161096.html
17-12-2021||Lucknow||Prayagraj gymnast Someshwar Rana cremated with military honours||Sangam city bid adieu to former national champion gymnast Someshwar Rana aka Sumit, on Thursday. His mortal remains were cremated with full military honours at Rasoolabad ghat with army and navy personnel led by Lt Commander DKS Rathor offering their tributes.Four of his fellow gymnasts of the Indian Navy, including Abhijeet Kumar, Mohd Nizaruddin, Mohd Anas and Arik Dey, also attended the last rites.The 28-year-old gymnast had suffered a fatal injury after falling on his neck during a practice session in Mumbai late Tuesday night. He was the younger brother of Aditya Singh Rana, also a gymnast, who has represented India in various international events.Mohammad Rafey, a close friend of Sumit and himself an international medal-winning gymnast, who won the President award in 2021, said on Thursday that the incident happened while Sumit was performing the front salto double, a floor exercise, when he, unfortunately, fell on his neck.Sumit was preparing for the 2022 Commonwealth Games at INS Hamla when the accident took place, he added.A resident of Govindpur locality of Prayagraj, Sumit was employed with the Indian Navy which he joined in 2014 and was serving as a chief petty officer. He had clinched the national title with the services team back in 2016.“Sumit started gymnastics from Prayagraj at the age of four in Khelgaon Public School. He pursued his higher studies at Allahabad University. For 10 years, he practised and refined his skills at National Sports Academy, Prayagraj. He was a national champion more than three times in various categories and represented India twice in Asian Championships and World School Games,” Rafey shared. PHOTO CAPTION: Someshwar Rana aka Sumit (HT File Photo)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/prayagraj-gymnast-someshwar-rana-cremated-with-military-honours-101639763159298.html
17-12-2021||Lucknow||Efforts to reclaim lost bastion:Rahul’s foot march in Amethi today||Lucknow: When senior Congress leader Rahul Gandhi reaches Amethi to lead a ‘padyatra’ (foot march) there on Saturday, his visit will mark the beginning of the Congress’ efforts to reclaim the Lok Sabha seat that, till 2019, was considered to be one of the Gandhi family’s two bastions in Uttar Pradesh. Rahul, who represented Amethi parliamentary constituency in the Lok Sabha since 2004, lost to union minister Smriti Irani in the 2019 elections. He is now MP from Wayanad Lok Sabha seat of Kerala. Congress president Sonia Gandhi, who was MP from Amethi till 2004, had shifted to neighbouring Rae Bareli, considered to be another bastion of the Gandhi family, and represents the constituency in the Lok Sabha. As this will be Rahul’s first visit to Amethi after a long gap, the party leaders and workers of the constituency are enthused and have stepped up preparations for the ‘padyatra’ that will mark the launching of the Congress campaign for the 2022 assembly elections in the state. Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra, who recently met party’s office-bearers from Amethi and briefly visited certain areas there, will also take part in the ‘padyatra’ in the constituency. “Rahul Gandhi will lead a nearly 6-km long ‘padyatra’ from Ramlila ground ( Jagdishpur) to Harimau in Amethi on Saturday. The ‘padyatra’ will focus on voting out the BJP in 2022 polls to bring down rising inflation. We are ready for the ‘padyatra’ in Amethi after nearly two years. We are happy and enthusiastic about his visit with Priyanka Gandhi Vadra to this family of Amethi,” said Amethi district Congress committee president Pradeep Singhal. “People of Amethi are certainly more enthused about Rahul Gandhi’s visit this time. Rahul continues to maintain his relations with Amethi as a family, though he is MP from Wayanad, Kerala. The people are coming forward voluntarily for the ‘padyatra’ now. The BJP has not been able to keep its promise of bringing about any development in Amethi,” said Amethi Congress leader and MLC Deepak Singh. “Rahul Gandhi’s visit to Amethi is certainly politically significant for the Congress. He had lost some ground in the 2019 Lok Sabha elections but still has strong connection with the people of Amethi and Rae Bareli. Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi has brought the Congress back into focus and people of the region have realized that the BJP did not keep its promises. So, the visit should help the Congress in further strengthening its base in the area,” said Professor UB Singh, principal, Baiswara PG College, Lalganj, Rae Bareli. The Congress would obviously like to use the occasion to strengthen its base in the constituency and show some results in 2022 UP assembly elections. The party failed to win any of five assembly seats in Amethi in the 2017 assembly elections. However, it won two of five assembly seats of Rae Bareli, with Aditi Singh (who recently joined the BJP) winning from Rae Bareli assembly seat. Congress MLA Rakesh Singh, who won from Harchandpur assembly seat of Rae Bareli, is also with the BJP. After wresting Amethi from the Congress, the BJP is now working hard to strengthen its base in Rae Bareli. “Rahul Gandhi’s ‘padyatra’ is only a visit to Amethi. This is not serious politically. He is now Wayanad MP. If he loved Amethi, he would not have left the constituency. Rahul has lost people’s faith by leaving the constituency. Union minister Smriti Irani is doing well and working for the development of Amethi. So Rahul Gandhi’s visit will not have any impact,” said Uma Shankar Pandey, senior BJP leader from Amethi. 
17-12-2021||Lucknow||UP reports 22 fresh Covid cases||Uttar Pradesh reported 22 fresh Covid cases from the 1,78,314 samples tested in the past 24-hours, taking the total caseload to 17,10,639 in the state on Friday.During the day, 15 patients recovered while the number of active Covid cases under treatment reached 164 against 157 a day before, according to the data provided by the state health department.Till now, 16,87,560 patients have recovered from Covid in the state, while 22,915 deaths have been reported. The state has tested 9,03,72,465 Covid samples till now.Among the two fresh cases reported in Lucknow, one is a resident of Jankipuram and the other IIM Road. “Health teams visited the patients and made contact list who will be screened in next 24-hours for symptoms of Covid,” said a senior health official.“Lucknow at present has 31 active cases under treatment, and the majority are in home isolation. Family members of Covid positive people should ensure they remain in isolation inside the home and their health should be monitored daily,” said Dr Abhishek Shukla, secretary-general association of international doctors.Amit Mohan Prasad, additional chief secretary, medical health, said in a press statement, “Covid infection has not been eliminated yet, hence, all should follow Covid protocol.”Of the total 22 cases, Muzaffarnagar and Gautam Budha Nagar reported six cases each, Gazipur two, one case each was reported from Shahjahanpur, Kanpur, Bijnore, Deoria, Sonebhadra, Gaziabad.2917 samples collected in Lucknow On the third day of focused Covid sampling, health teams collected 2917 samples from the medical store owners, hospitals staff. The focused Covid sampling will continue till December 28. The sampling was started on Wednesday to screen asymptomatic people who work outside their homes and meet multiple people for their job. During the day, one dengue case was reported from the Tudiyaganj area in Lucknow.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/up-reports-22-fresh-covid-cases-101639761903710.html
17-12-2021||Lucknow||No seat-sharing issue, ready to make ‘sacrifices’ in alliance with SP: Shivpal||The Pragatisheel Samajwadi Party-Lohia (PSP-L) chief Shivpal Singh Yadav on Friday said there would not be any problem over seat sharing with the Samajwadi Party in the 2022 UP assembly polls as he was ready for any “sacrifice”.His nephew Samajwadi Party national president Akhilesh Yadav and he had announced an alliance for 2022 UP assembly polls on Thursday. “Seat-sharing will not be an issue. We are ready to make any sacrifice,” Shivpal said while addressing his party workers at his party’s headquarters in Mall Avenue a day after the announcement was made for the alliance.Before him, Akhilesh during his “Vijay Rath Yatra” in Rae Bareli said: “All the alliances that the SP entered with small, regional parties were announced only after deciding on seat sharing.” Shivpal is Akhilesh’s uncle and the elder Yadav held a meeting of his party workers, recalling that he had already told them that in case of an alliance their party may get fewer seats from which to contest.“We will fight the elections together and if needed we will also make sacrifices for it. The BJP government has to be removed and we will form the government together,” he told them. Earlier, Akhilesh had hinted in Etawah on November 3 that he would ally with his uncle’s party.Before the “chacha-bhatija” reunion, Shivpal Yadav had said his breakaway party was preparing to field candidates on 100 seats in the elections to the 403-member assembly. The coming together of the family appears to have enthused workers in both the parties.Hundreds of supporters from the two parties had on Thursday gathered outside Shivpal Yadav’s house, chanting “Chacha-Bhatija Zindabad”. The relations between the uncle and the nephew began souring in August 2015 and reached a flashpoint in 2016 with the sacking of Shivpal Yadav as a minister when Akhilesh Yadav was the chief minister. Akhilesh Yadav became the SP president in January 2017 and his uncle first formed a Samajwadi Secular Morcha in mid-2018 and then PSP-L shortly before the 2019 Lok Sabha polls. PSP-L had contested 56 out of the 80 seats in UP in the Lok Sabha elections unsuccessfully. During the panchayat polls held a few months back, the SP and the PSP-L had come together in Etawah where they won 18 out of 24 wards and BJP got just one seat there.The reunion could also help in checking any erosion in their support among the Yadavs who are said to be around 9 per cent of the state’s population. Aggressively positioning himself against the BJP in the 2022 UP polls, the SP has already entered into an alliance with the Rashtriya Lok Dal, Om Prakash Rajbhar’s Suheldev Bhartiya Samaj Party (SBSP), Apna Dal (Krishna Patel), Janwati Party (Socialist) and the Mahan Dal.
17-12-2021||Lucknow||SP walks out of Vidhan Parishad over ‘corruption’ in paddy purchase in UP||The Samajwadi Party (SP) on Friday staged a walkout in the Vidhan Parishad demanding a high-level inquiry into the alleged state-wide corruption in paddy purchase from farmers at minimum support price (MSP) during the current procurement season.Raising the issue through the adjournment motion, SP members Naresh Chandra Uttam, Balram Yadav, Rajesh Yadav, Shashank Yadav and others alleged that middlemen were showing paddy as being purchased from farmers who actually had no land and never grew paddy. The middlemen, according to them, had opened bank accounts in the name of farmers depriving genuine farmers of the benefits of the MSP. Joining the issue, SP MLC Sanjay Lathar demanded the government to withdraw the amendments to the Mandi Act in the wake of the repeal of the package of three farm laws by the Centre. The amendments, he said, had declared private silos, godowns and cold storages as sub-mandis where traders could purchase goods from farmers without adopting any auction process. Agriculture minister Surya Pratap Sahi, in his reply, said SP’s allegations were baseless and demanded the chair to reject its demand for a debate on the issue. Not satisfied with the minister’s response, SP members walked out of the House shouting slogans against the government. Earlier, SP members staged a walkout demanding a probe into the reservation in the assistant teachers’ recruitment examination, 2019. Deepak Singh of the Congress raised the issue of spiralling price rise in the state and demanded the chair through the adjournment motion to allow a debate on the issue of public interest.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/sp-walks-out-of-vidhan-parishad-over-corruption-in-paddy-purchase-in-up-101639761419030.html
17-12-2021||Lucknow||HC bench in Agra: Lawyers to remain on strike every Saturday||Demanding a high court bench in Agra, lawyers of Taj city have decided to revive the work boycott on every Saturday strategy.“Lawyers had been abstaining from working in courts on Saturdays in support of their demand for high court bench in Agra for decades but off late, some lawyers had begun working on Saturdays. A decision was taken to have effective strike every Saturday and now on even stamp vendors and typists will not be allowed to work on Saturdays,” said Action Committee for Establishment of High Court Bench in Agra- a group that is spearheading the movement- in a press statement.Media incharge Anup Kumar Sharma and Adhar Kumar Sharma of the committee said “The decision was taken during the meeting of Action Committee for Establishment of High Court Bench in Agra at Bar Hall library on Civil Court compound of Agra on Friday. The lawyers stressed on the need to have an effective strike as in the past.” Besides, a delegation of lawyers from Agra will visit Firozabad to garner support from lawyers of the neighbouring district.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/hc-bench-in-agra-lawyers-to-remain-on-strike-every-saturday-101639761119567.html
17-12-2021||Lucknow||Lakhimpur case: CJM court rejects Ashish Mishra’s second bail plea||The court of chief judicial magistrate (CJM) in Lakhimpur Kheri on Friday rejected the second bail application of Tikunia violence case main accused Ashish Mishra. Ashish Mishra, the son of Union minister of state for home Ajay Kumar Mishra Teni, is the key accused in the violence that claimed eight lives, including four farmers, on October 3 under the Tikunia police station limits of Lakhimpur Kheri. He was arrested on October 9 and is in jail since then.Senior prosecution officer SP Yadav said, “On Friday, second bail application of Ashish Mishra alias Monu was moved in the court of incharge CJM Mona Singh by counsel Awadhesh Singh in modified IPC sections in FIR number 219.” “The court in its order on Friday said there were not enough grounds for bail and rejected the second bail application on gravity of the crime,” he further said.Mishra’s second bail application was moved after the CJM court on December 14 allowed the special investigators to add sections 307 (attempt to murder), 326 (voluntarily causing grievous harm with dangerous weapons) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and sections 3/25/30 read with section 35 of the Arms Act, which were not part of the original FIR number 219 in which Ashish Mishra is the main accused. There are 12 other accused in the FIR. The court had also allowed the SIT probing the Tikunia violence case to drop sections 279, 338 and 304A of the IPC from the FIR number 219 which was related with the death of four farmers and a local journalist. The modifications in the sections were allowed after chief investigating office Vidyaram Diwakar in his report to the court described the act as premeditated with the intention to kill. Ashish Mishra had filed his first bail application in the CJM’s court on October 13 after his arrest on Oct 9 under sections 147, 148, 149, 279, 338, 304A, 302 and 120B of IPC invoked in FIR number 219/2021. The CJM court had rejected his first bail application the same day following which his bail application was moved before the district and sessions judge on October 21 but the district and sessions court also rejected his bail application on November 15.Later, his bail application was moved in the high court which is still pending. However, the modification in certain IPC sections in FIR number 219 mandated the accused to file a fresh application in the lower court to seek bail in new sections of IPC which were not part of the original FIR.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/lakhimpur-case-cjm-court-rejects-ashish-mishra-s-second-bail-plea-101639760819503.html
17-12-2021||Lucknow||With Ganga E-way, BJP set to take UP polls fight to western UP||After wooing voters by launching several projects in eastern Uttar Pradesh recently, the Bharatiya Janta Party (BJP) now plans to take the fight for the 2022 assembly election to western region of the state as Prime Minister Narendra Modi will lay the foundation stone of 594-km Ganga Expressway connecting Meerut with Prayagraj in Shahjahanpur on Saturday (December 18). PM Modi has already launched a string of projects in eastern UP including Kushinagar international airport, Purvanchal Expressway, Saryu Nahar National Project, fertiliser factory and AIIMS at Gorakhpur, inauguration of nine medical colleges at Siddharthnagar and inauguration of the Kashi Vishwanath Corridor at Varanasi.Riding on the Ganga Expressway project, the BJP hopes to counter the Samajwadi Party (SP)-Rashtriya Lok Dal (RLD) alliance as well as Rakesh Tikait-led Bhartiya Kisan Union (BKU) that was leading the farmers’ agitation in the western UP.The BJP also plans to consolidate its hold made in the 2017 assembly election in western UP making inroads into the support base of the Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP), the Rashtriya Lok Dal (RLD) and the Samajwadi Party (SP). The Ganga expressway will start from Bijoli village in Meerut and passing through Hapur, Bulandshahr, Amroha, Sambhal, Budaun, Shahjahanpur, Hardoi, Unnao, Rae Bareli and Pratapgarh, it will terminate at Judapur Dandu village in Prayagraj district. Terming the Ganga expressway the longest expressway in UP, chief minister Yogi Adityanath said along with connecting the western UP with the central UP region, it will give thrust to the economic activities and remove economic imbalance.“It will be a step towards converting UP into an expressway state. The Purvanchal expressway has been dedicated to the people by the PM, traffic on the Bundelkhand expressway will be opened soon and the work on the Gorakhpur link expressway and Ballia link expressway is continuing on a war footing,” Yogi said.Built at the cost of ₹36,200 crore, the six-lane Ganga expressway will provide direct high-speed connectivity from National Capital Region (NCR) through western UP to Prayagraj. It will facilitate construction of all-weather high-speed access-controlled expressway in the western UP region, said a state government spokesperson.The expressway will decrease the travel time from Meerut to Prayagraj to 6.5 hours. The 3.5 km long airstrip that will be constructed at Shahjahanpur on the expressway will assist emergency take-off and landing of fighter aircraft. An industrial corridor will be constructed along with the expressway to give boost to economic activities, the spokesperson added. The expressway will also give a fillip to multiple sectors, including industrial development, trade, agriculture, dairy, tourism, training and educational institutions and medical institutes as well as other economic activities. It will also provide a big boost to the socio-economic development of the region, the spokesperson said.The Uttar Pradesh cabinet under chief minister Yogi Adityanath gave its nod to Ganga expressway in the first week of September. The state government purchased 94% of land for the expressway from 8,2750 farmers despite the Covid pandemic, he added.
17-12-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab logs 39 new Covid cases||Punjab on Friday registered 39 fresh cases of Covid-19 with no death being reported in the past 24-hours. The state’s positivity rate for the day stood at 0.14%, according to a medical bulletin.Among the fresh cases, the maximum seven were detected in Jalandhar, followed by six each in Pathankot and Mohali and five in Bathinda. Punjab’s total tally of positive cases has reached 6,03,892, of which 325 cases are still active.Meanwhile, with 27 persons being discharged, the number of those cured has reached 5,86,895. So far, 16,626 people have lost their lives to the virus, stated the bulletin. A total of 1,65,82,171 samples have been collected for testing so far in the state, out of 27,287 were tested on Friday. As many as 59,787 doses of vaccine were also administered on the day.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-logs-39-new-covid-cases-101639760159029.html
17-12-2021||Mumbai||BMC to arrange vaccination drive, testing camps at film sets||Mumbai In the wake of several Bollywood celebrities getting infected with Covid-19, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) has said that it will arrange special testing drives and vaccination camps at the outdoor shooting locations in Mumbai. Suresh Kakani, additional municipal commissioner, who is also in-charge of the public health department said that many crew members present at the locations have travel history as they come from different parts of the country to Mumbai. “The BMC may arrange camps in shooting locations at studios or in the film city at the earliest to inoculate the crew members present. The drive will be conducted by the local ward office and will be conducted in the lines of BMC’s campaign to ensure all the employees in the workplace are fully vaccinated,” said Kakani. “In a film set, there are many crew members who have travel history and might not have completed their vaccination course. These members work on different locations and if they contract the virus, they can become super spreaders, which is why we are working towards starting this drive as a precautionary measure,” he said. Kakani also said that besides setting up a vaccination centre, the BMC is also planning to arrange awareness campaigns to sensitise those who are working at sets to ensure that they take vaccines at the earliest. He also maintained that the ward officials have been instructed to expedite the number of daily tests conducted each day. “Before allowing shooting to start post the second wave, the BMC had clearly stated that testing camps should be there at the site of the shooting and all the members should be tested regularly for everyone’s safety,” he said. Rajul Patel, chairperson of the BMC health committee said that vaccinating the crew members working at a film set is the need of the hour because a large number of people work together at the film sets. “Many famous celebrities have started to take the rules imposed by BMC lightly which is why many of them have become positive in last one week,” said Patel. “We are planning to start mobile vaccination vans as well in the shooting areas to make sure more people get their dose at the earliest,” Patel said. Another senior BMC official of the public health department said that the BMC will prepare a list of the shooting activities that are happening at their ward and then will contact to administrative heads in-charge of the shooting, to check if a camp could be set up||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/bmc-to-arrange-vaccination-drive-testing-camps-at-film-sets-101639759683737.html
17-12-2021||Chandigarh||Chattopadhyaya assumes additional charge as Punjab DGP||Siddharth Chattopadhyaya, a 1986-batch Indian Police Service officer, on Friday assumed additional charge as the Punjab’s top cop. After joining office, the newly appointed director general of police (DGP) held a meeting with the top brass of the department. According to orders issued by the state government, he will also continue to hold the charge of DGP, Punjab State Power Corporation Limited, besides the additional charge as chief director, state vigilance bureau. Chattopadhyaya said that besides maintaining law and order in view of the Punjab assembly elections due early next year, he will focus on the fight against drug and human trafficking and improving road safety in the state. Recipient of the President’s Police Medal for Gallantry, the new DGP had served in various critical and sensitive capacities in the state police during militancy and on deputation with the Border Security Force.Meanwhile, the move to remove IPS Sahota at around midnight has surprised many as both chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi and home minister Sukhjinder Randhawa were putting their weight behind him every since he took over as the officiating DGP amid opposition from the camp led by Punjab Congress chief Navjot Sidhu. Apart from pressure to act on some political sensitive cases, sources said the leakage of sensitive documents from the police headquarters related to a sensitive drug case was the reason behind Sahota being removed from the post.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chattopadhyaya-assumes-additional-charge-as-punjab-dgp-101639759260353.html
17-12-2021||Pune||PMPML to restart special bus service for school students from next week||PUNE Schools in the city have reopened for offline classes from Thursday and children returned to classrooms after almost two years. Parents are worried about transportation however. Prior to Covid-19 pandemic, the Pune Mahanagar Parivhana Mahamandal Limited (PMPML) used to provide students with a special bus service around the city. Now parents are demanding that the service be restarted. “We are planning to start the students’ special school bus service from next week. Prior to the pandemic around 35 such special buses were running and now slowly, as per the demand from schools, we are going to start the bus service. The planning of routes and other arrangements for these special buses is going on,” said PMPML public relation officer Satish Ghate. “My son used to go to school by PMPML bus prior to the pandemic and now as the schools have reopened, this bus service should be started as thousands of students are dependent on it. We stay at Dhayari on Sinhagad road and my son’s school is in Navi peth. We cannot afford to send him by a private bus as the fees are not affordable,” said Machindra Sonawane, a parent. The PMPML school bus service used to run across the city on demand from the schools. Some buses are specially given to schools and run on specific routes with only school students allowed and fixed timings, morning and evening. Student Rahul Khillare from Hadapsar said, “My school is at Swargate area and we used to daily go by our special PMPML school bus. Currently we are going by regular public transport bus, but we have to pay regular ticket fares. If the students special bus starts then it would be beneficial for many students.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pmpml-to-restart-special-bus-service-for-school-students-from-next-week-101639758959013.html
17-12-2021||Kolkata||BJP may cause trouble: Abhishek Banerjee to TMC workers ahead of KMC polls||Trinamool Congress (TMC) national general secretary Abhishek Banerjee on Friday asked his party’s workers to “be alert” and keep their “eyes and ears open”, saying the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) may try to cause trouble during Kolkata Municipal Corporation (KMC) elections on December 19.“We have information that the BJP will foment trouble in five or six wards. If the BJP tries to instigate trouble, we will have to resist such bids,” the Diamond Harbour MP was quoted as saying by PTI.Abhishek also warned his party’s activists and leaders of strict action if they are found using “unfair means” for personal gains.“If anyone shows ‘dadagiri’ (high-handedness), he will be expelled from the party after 24 hours,” the nephew of TMC supremo and West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee, said while addressing a meeting after a roadshow in south Kolkata.Calling senior leaders of the BJP, who made multiple visits to West Bengal before the assembly elections earlier this year, as “bahiragato” (outsiders), Abhishek said they only “peddled lies” about the state and contributed to the rising cases of Covid-19 in the region.“People rejected leaders like Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath, who had spread canards about the state. See for yourself the situation in UP, where a Union minister's son mows down agitating farmers with his car. Do you want such a situation in Bengal?” he asked the crowd during the roadshow.Also Read | UNESCO recognition for Kolkata’s Durga Puja triggers slugfest between TMC, BJPThe TMC MP was referring to the Lakhimpur Kheri incident in Uttar Pradesh in which Union minister Ajay Mishra Teni's son, Ashish Mishra, has been named as one of the accused.Challenging the BJP to an open debate with him on the matter of West Bengal's development, Abhishek said the party has “no suggestion” to offer and only “uses religion” to gain votes.“In two years, Kolkata will become the ‘number one city’ in the country on development parameters,” the TMC MP said, urging people not to vote for them in the Lok Sabha polls, if the ruling party fails to live up to their expectations.The BJP, which is also contesting all the 144 seats in the KMC elections, filed a petition to stay the voting to be held on December 19. However, the division bench of the Calcutta high court dismissed the party’s petition.The BJP’s state unit also moved the high court, seeking deployment of the central armed police force (CAPF), but that was too turned down on Friday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/bjp-may-cause-trouble-abhishek-banerjee-to-tmc-workers-ahead-of-kmc-polls-101639753567721.html
17-12-2021||Pune||MSRTC strike hits day 50: Process for dismissal of those not working begins||PUNE Despite several attempts to get staff to resume work. the Maharashtra State Transport Corporation (MSRTC) workers’ strike hit day 50 on Friday. Now the MSRTC’s Pune division has started the process of dismissing staff on strike and as of Friday, 69 staffers who had participated in the protests have been sent showcause notices with an enquiry process to dismiss now begun. So far, a total of 1,250 workers of the 4,200 workers in the Pune division have resumed work. State transport minister Anil Parab had warned protesting workers across the state to join to work by December 13, but very few responded. Now the process to dismiss has begun and a departmental enquiry will conducted in three rounds. “We have sent showcause notices to 69 protesting workers since Monday and an enquiry will be done in three rounds. If they do not appear for the enquiry then a final ultimatum to resume duty will be given and then they will be dismissed,” said MSRTC Pune divisional controller Ramakant Gaikwad. “Around 1,250 workers have joined work in Pune division and most of them are from workshop and administrative departments. And we have suspended 488 workers, 66 of whome then rejoined work. Still the number is less to start bus operations in Pune division,” he added. MSRTC workers and several unions are protesting various demands. Apparently, the main demand of merging the MSRTC into state government was compromised according to the workers, after which workers (apart from the union members) spontaneously started the strike and all the 13 depots in Pune division have been affected. To support the state government the private tourist bus association gave 2000 buses to be operated across the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/msrtc-strike-hits-day-50-process-for-dismissal-of-those-not-working-begins-101639758719044.html
17-12-2021||Pune||Heritage park under Sadhu Vaswani bridge in state of disrepair||PUNE A planned heritage park under the Sadhu Vaswani bridge is gathering dust since it was inaugurated in 2017. A fund crunch and unavailability of space for miniatures that are part of the park have been gathering dust, residents of the area have complained. The homeless have been using the park to sleep in at night.“We were aghast to see such a bad condition of this place. Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) had spent ₹90 lakh on this heritage park with lovely miniatures of Shaniwarwada, Lal Deval, Aga Khan Palace, Pataleshwar caves, Parnakuti, Osho Ashram, and Council Hall, but now they are riddled with cobwebs, rats and termites,” said Qaneez Sukhrani.This park was set up to avoid the underpass of the bridge being used illegally. It was never opened for citizens and now it is a dump. “The floor has become hollow because termites and rats. This will cause damage to the Sadhu Vaswani bridge above. Did PMC do a survey that this location would attract tourists and be included in Pune Darshan tour ? How is PMC answerable now for public funds?” Sukhrani asked.Harshada Shinde, head of PMC’s heritage department, said, “The Sadhu Vaswami bridge is an heritage bridge and is old. The department is aware that the miniature replicas are in a bad state but we are facing shortage of funds to maintain them and besides there is an order to dismantle the old bridge, hence, we are looking for a new place to shift the miniatures.” A similar situation can be seen at the underpass of the Swargate bridge where the murals are layered with dust and no maintenance.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/heritage-park-under-sadhu-vaswani-bridge-in-state-of-disrepair-101639758420756.html
17-12-2021||Mumbai||8 new Omicron cases, 25 patients already discharged||Mumbai Maharashtra reported eight new cases of Omicron on Friday, taking the total number of infected persons to 40. Of the total Omicron patients, so far 25 have been already discharged. Of these patients, six patients are from Pune, and one each from Mumbai and Kalyan-Dombivali. These eight infected people are male in the age group of 29-45 years. Of these eight people, two have been hospitalised, while the rest six are in home quarantine. Of the six people infected in Pune, four have a history of travel to Dubai, while the rest two are their contacts. In the case of the Mumbai patient, he travelled to USA and the Kalyan Dombivali patients had been to Nigeria. The report by the state government says that of the 40 patients, Mumbai now has the most number of Omicron cases in the state with 14, followed by Pimpri-Chinchwad (10), Pune with eight, two each in Kalyan-Dombivli and Osmanabad and the rest like Nagpur, Buldhana, Latur and Vasai-Virar with one patient each. State surveillance officer Dr Pradeep Awate said that the situation is under control. “There is no surge of cases and even the infected patients are majorly asymptomatic,” said Dr Awate. Maharashtra on Friday recorded 902 Covid-19 new cases with 12 deaths. Mumbai recorded 289 new cases with one death taking its death toll to 16,363. The total number of Covid-19 patients right from the outbreak last year has now reached 66,47,840. There were 1,34,946 tests done on Friday while the number of recoveries clocked 680.The positivity rate is 0.66% as there were 902 cases of the 1,34,946 tests. The total active cases are 6,903 with Mumbai leading with 1,940 followed by Pune and Thane with 1,827 and 1,025 active cases respectively.The death toll has now reached 1,41,329 with Pune leading with 19,762 deaths followed by Mumbai with 16,363 patients and Thane with 11,580.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/8-new-omicron-cases-25-patients-already-discharged-101639758418802.html
17-12-2021||Patna||Madan Mohan Jha offers to quit as BPCC chief, AICC looks for replacement||PATNA: The All India Congress Committee (AICC) has expedited the process to appoint a new chief of the Bihar Pradesh Congress Committee (BPCC) after Madan Mohan Jha offered to quit the post yet again, people aware of the development said.An AICC general secretary, wishing not to be named, said that consultation was going on at the highest level and the new president for the Bihar unit could be announced very soon. “Party seniors have been brainstorming the strategies to strengthen the state units across the state. AICC in-charge for Bihar Bhakta Charan Das, who has gone out for a few days, will return to Delhi by Monday to carry forward the selection process,” he said.Another senior leader said that reconstitution of the BPCC disciplinary committee headed by former minister Kripanath Pathak, a couple of days ago, is an indicator that the AICC is seriously mulling over the revamp of the BPCC. “Disciplinary committee is considered an apex body, which can act against even the BPCC chief and recommend action against AICC delegates,” said a former vice president of the party.The clamour for change of guard in the state party unit has been most pronounced in the state unit after the humiliating defeat of party candidates at the recently concluded by-elections at Kuseshwar Asthan and Tarapur, despite the best efforts put in by AICC in-charge and former JNUSU president Kanhaiya Kumar and many other star campaigners.According to party leaders, the AICC has been looking for a suitable replacement after Jha’s name cropped up in a case relating to an alleged promise to give ticket to contest the Lok Sabha election in lieu of money. In September this year, a Congress leader Sanjiv Kumar Singh had lodged a case against opposition leader Tejashwi Prasad Yadav, Rajya Sabha member, and daughter of RJD chief Lalu Prasad, Misa Bharti, and the BPCC chief, alleging that he paid ₹5 crore for a ticket to contest Lok Sabha polls from Bhagalpur parliamentary constituency as an alliance’s candidate, which remained elusive.Confirming the development, Jha said that he had already urged the party high command to relieve him from the post.Many senior Congress leaders attributed depleting strength of the party in the assembly to the weak bargaining skills of the then AICC in-charge Shaktisinh Gohil and Jha, which made the party give up sitting seats and contest from the unfamiliar constituencies under pressure from the RJD. “It was because of Jha and Das that the long-standing coalition between the RJD and Congress broke apart and the party was subjected to the crushing defeat in the by-polls,” said AICC member Kishore Kumar Jha.The Congress’s strength in the state assembly has come down to 19 in 2020 against 27 in 2015. “The party urgently needs a fresh strategy to recover the lost ground after it decided to contest the elections on its own. The BPCC urgently needs a bold, dynamic and popular leader to change the fate of the party in Bihar,” said former vice president Ajay Kumar Singh
17-12-2021||Ranchi||Jharkhand assembly: Proceedings disrupted on second day over JPSC row||The second day of the winter session of the Jharkhand Assembly could function for less than an hour on Friday as BJP legislators disrupted proceedings demanding a CBI inquiry into the ongoing civil services exams and dismissal of the JPSC chairman in connection with a series of alleged irregularities in the preliminary examination and declaration of result. The Speaker adjourned the House for the day around 12.40pm as the BJP legislators refused to budge despite one of their colleagues being marshalled out that had led to a brief adjournment earlier. Besides its ally AJSU Party, the BJP also got support from CPI (ML) legislator Binod Singh and independent legislator Amit Yadav who too entered the well with banners demanding action.The legislators disrupted proceedings as the Speaker turned down the adjournment motion brought by BJP, Ajsu Party and CPI (ML) legislators over the issue. Speaking to reporters after the house was adjourned, BJP legislature party leader Babulal Marandi hit out at the government and also questioned the Speaker’s action. “There has been a series of allegations related to this exam, which is now in the public domain. The JPSC aspirants have themselves been highlighting loopholes in the examination. After denying any wrongdoing, the commission itself declared 49 applicants failed after declaring them pass because their OMR sheet was missing. High-level corruption in this examination is visible and so we are demanding CBI inquiry and dismissal of the chairman,” said Marandi. The BJP leader also hit out at the Speaker for the marshalling of his colleagues for raising slogans in the Well. “What is the option for the opposition than to raise an issue related to the public in House if the government was not listening to their demands. Legislators of other parties and legislators also demanded discussion over the issue. But even the Speaker refused to address the issue of people. It shows the intention of the Speaker,” he added. The JPSC has been facing a series of charges ever since it declared the result of the preliminary test (PT) last month. It started with allegations that applicants at two centres, in Latehar and Sahebganj districts, cleared the examination who took the exam in a series sitting in the same room. The applicants also raised the issue of the JPSC declaring results without announcing the cut off marks under separate categories. The commission announced the cut-off marks earlier. There have been allegations that many students who got less than the cut off marks have made it to the list and vice versa. The JPSC earlier this month itself cancelled the result of 49 students who were shown to have cleared PT in the first announcement. CPI (ML) legislator Binod Singh, said the government ought to reply when so many things are tumbling out. “No authority is explaining the lacunae outside and now when the assembly is in session, it’s the responsibility of the government to clarify things on the floor of the House. The government had announced this year to year of new appointments. In reality, it became a year of taking away the job,” said Singh. While the government has been defending the JPSC in the row, the pressure seems to be mounted on it as members from the treasury benches have also started raising questions over the issue. “I don’t find any problem if a detailed inquiry is conducted if there was no wrongdoing in the examination process. There has been a history of such allegations against the JPSC. So it’s the responsibility of the government to establish the faith of state’s youth over this constitutional body,” said Bandhu Tirkey, legislator and working president of the Congress, the second largest constituent in the government. While the government refused to speak over the issue in the assembly, education minister Jagarnath Mahto defended the JPSC outside the House. “The opposition should raise their concern as per the parliamentary proceedings. As far as irregularity allegations are concerned, the JPSC itself conducted a probe and called the result of some students,” Mahto told reporters.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ranchi-news/jharkhand-assembly-proceedings-disrupted-on-second-day-over-jpsc-row-101639758118776.html
17-12-2021||Patna||SVU unearthed over 5 crore DA against sub-registrar||PATNA: Separate team of special vigilance unit (SVU) on Friday conducted raid at the office and residences of a sub-registrar, Mani Ranjan, in connection with a disproportionate asset (DA) worth over ₹5 crore amassing through corruption. SVU sources said on Friday the raid was conducted after lodging an FIR under Section 13(B), R/W 13(13)(D), R/W Section 12 and Section 120B of IPC of Prevention of Corruption Act 1988 against him with the vigilance police station in Patna and a search warrant procured from the vigilance court. The SVU sleuths so far unearthed disproportionate assets worth crores of rupees including ₹60 lakh cash, a flat document worth ₹32 lakh, a plot on the name of his wife Sunita worth ₹5 lakh, 2.5 kattha lands worth ₹1.5 crore and a flat on the name of his father-in-law. The raids were conducted at flat number 304 of Patligram Apartment in Agamkuan (Patna), Tulsi Kunj under Town police station of Samastipur and Usha Niketan in Muzaffarpur. SVU found that the sub-registrar filing ₹2 lakh Income Tax Return on the name of his driver. “We had been getting several anonymous petitions that the sub-registrar’s office in Samastipur collecting bribes from those coming to register land. During the probe malpractice was found at the sub-registrar office”, said an investigation officer who is part of the raiding team. Additional director general of SVU, N H Khan said, “A DA case was lodged with the SVU police station on December 16. Mani Ranjan had joined the service in 2010. The sleuths seized ₹60 cash from his three locations.” We have unearthed a lavish hotel in which 21 rooms constructed since 2019 at Brahmpura in Muzaffarpur, a shop worth ₹22 lakh in Paras Mall, several passbooks of SBI, ICICI, Indus Babk, Central bank, Standard Chartered Bank and four expensive luxury SUVs. He has also invested in fixed deposits, LIC, real estate business and jewelleries. The ADG told HT that during the tenure in Katihar between 2018 and 2021, the sub-registrar amassed three plots, three shops and many lands on the state highways and national highways. He also run more than six shell companies on the paper for money laundering activities. According to SVC sources, a maximum one-third of the salary of a government employee is taken as savings. Ranjan had disclosed assets worth in lakh but the SVU sleuths unearthed property worth around ₹1.62 crore as a primary stage when FIR lodged. “Investigation is on to ascertain the exact value of his assets disproportionate to his known sources of income. It may run into 20 crores of rupees,” said Khan adding that we are collecting the details of the seized valuables from the special teams that carried out the task assigned to them. 
17-12-2021||Patna||Three sentenced to life, five get 10-yr-RI in 2018 Bodh Gaya IED blast case||PATNA: The National Investigation Agency (NIA) special court, Patna, on Friday awarded life sentences to three out of nine terrorists of the Jamat-ul-Mujahideen Bangladesh (JMB), while five were sentenced to 10 years imprisonment for their involvement in the IED explosion in Bodh Gaya’s Mahabodhi temple in January 19, 2018, when Tibetan spiritual leader, the Dalai Lama, along with several Buddhist pilgrims, were camping in the town to participate in the month-long Kalachakra puja.According to the NIA, three JMB terrorists Paigambar Sheikh, Ahmad Ali, and Nur Alam were sentenced to life along with a fine of ₹39,000 each, while the special court of ADJ-XV Gurvinder Singh Malhotra slapped a fine of ₹36, 000 each against Mustafizur Rahman alias Shaheen alias Tuhin Ali and Mohammad Adil Sheikh alias Asadullah alias Abdulla.Arif Hussain alias Ataur Sayeed alias Alamgir Sheikh , Dilwar Hossain alias Umar Hasan and Abdul Karim alias Korim Sheikh alias Iqbal Fantu Sheikh have been slapped with a fine of ₹34,000 each under relevant Sections of IPC and Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act. The trial against the ninth accused Mohammad Jahidul Islam alias Kausar Mizanul Islam alias Bada Bhai from Bangladesh is still on.According to the special public prosecutor (NIA), Lallan Prasad Sinha, eight of the nine accused had filed a joint petition before the special court on October 22 confessing to their crime for hatching conspiracy and executing the blast, which was accepted by the court. Mohammad Jahidul Islam has not filed any petition confessing his crime.The additional PP Pramod Kumar of NIA told HT that the accused were found guilty under Sections 121, 121A, 122 of IPC, Explosive Substances Act, and Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act. He said that one of the IEDs planted by the suspected terrorists had exploded while two live IEDs were recovered. During the probe, NIA found the involvement of JMB.This was the second IED blast inside Bodh Gaya temple. The first incident occurred on July 7, 2013, in which the convicts, all Indian Mujahideen members, had planted 13 IEDs inside the temple of which nine had exploded. Five persons, including two Buddhist monks, were injured in the incident.Investigation revealed that the accused Jahidul Islam along with the others formed a team and hatched a conspiracy to carry out the blasts by planting IEDs inside the Bodh Gaya temple complex and other symbols of the Buddhist faith.According to investigators, the motive was to attack symbols of Buddhism in retaliation to the alleged atrocities against the Rohingyas in Myanmar and to unnerve the Indian government.This is the second case in which the NIA court pronounced the judgment within seven weeks. Earlier on November 1, the court sentenced four of the nine men to capital punishment for the 2013 serial blasts at Patna’s Gandhi Maidan while five others were convicted to jail terms ranging from life to seven years.NIA findingsThe Bangladesh-based terrorist group Jamaat-ul-Mujahideen (JMB) was responsible for hatching the conspiracy.Bangladeshi national Jahidul Islam fabricated 3 IEDs and 2 hand grenades. He had entered India and was staying without any legal documents and used different fake IDs to conceal his identity.Dilwar Hossain of West Bengal planted one hand grenade in the cistern of a public toilet near Kalchakra Maidan which was recovered later following his arrest and disclosure.Accused were contacted and assembled at various places. They took shelter at Jehanabad and Masaurhi in Bihar.They used fake names to travel and for renting hideouts and used protected text for communication.The accused escaped after the incident and were hiding in various locations in and around Bengaluru and other places.They also committed a number of dacoities in and around Bengaluru in order to raise funds for their subversive plans.
17-12-2021||Patna||Whistleblower Bihar V-C quits||Patna-based Maulana Mazharul Haq Arabic and Persian University ‘whistleblower’ vice-chancellor (V-C) Prof Md Qudus, who triggered a storm by levelling serious charges of financial irregularities against his predecessor and Lalit Narayan Mithila Darbhanga University V-C SP Singh earlier this month, resigned on Monday, citing “personal and unavoidable” reason. There was no word from the Raj Bhawan if his resignation had been accepted.Qudus had written directly to Chief Minister Nitish Kumar about the irregularities prior to his joining in the award of tender for answer books and security guards and alleged the role of Singh, who was holding the additional charge of MMHAPU. Singh later served him ₹5.10 crore defamation notice and Qudus said that he had already sent its reply and “the outrage against Singh, wherever he has served, was a testimony to his style of functioning”.Qudus also had to face rebuke from the MMHAPU syndicate, the highest statutory body, last week when it approved the payment to all the university staff, including those outsourced, like before and termed their appointment as per rules. The inquiry ordered by him also could not start as three of the five members of the inquiry committee refused to be part of it. The V-C had alleged irregularities in the outsourcing of staff also in his letter. Kudus, who had joined less than four months ago, had earlier said that despite Syndicate’s nod to the earlier appointments, he would refer the matter to the government and the Raj Bhawan for further guidelines. He later wrote about the prevailing conditions in the university to the government and sought clarity on “staff being paid salary through internal resources of the university for nearly six years despite education department’s objections to the way recruitments had been done and roster followed”.“There are employees working since 2015 and getting paid through internal resources, while the government does not recognise the appointments. I also paid them a couple of times but later tried to find out why the fund for their payment was not coming from the state government when the posts had been duly created. I found out that two of my predecessors kept making payments, without clearance from the education department.Some persons appointed were also found overage by the department and it sought evidence of how relaxation was given. As I could not keep paying unauthorised appointments through internal resources, which the university wanted me to continue with, I resigned citing personal reasons. The situation warranted that I should go. I sent my resignation through the mail and later also handed over the letter personally at Raj Bhawan,” he added.Qudus resignation takes the number of vacancies in Bihar’s universities once again to four, as Pataliputra University and Aryabhatt Knowledge University (AKU) are already vacant for nearly a year, while in TM Bhagalpur University the post is vacant following the former V-C’s resignation. Besides, two universities are under additional charge as one V-C is on medical leave following vigilance raid while another has been sent on compulsory leave. Earlier this month, Pataliputra University Pro V-C had also resigned after a brief stint.
17-12-2021||Pune||Pune district reports 209 fresh Covid cases in 24 hours||PUNE As per state health department authorities, Pune district reported 209 fresh Covid-19 positive cases and one virus-related death on Friday. This death was reported from Pune rural.The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) has so far reported 524,406 Covid-19 cases and 9,233 deaths. While Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC) has reported 270,471 cases so far and a total of 3,518 deaths due to Covid. Pune rural has reported 368,868 total cases and 7,011 deaths.The progressive count in the Pune district stands at 1,163,745 cases. Out of this, 1,141,806 patients have recovered. There has been a total of 20,112 deaths and at present, there are 1,827 active cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pune-district-reports-209-fresh-covid-cases-in-24-hours-101639757398683.html
17-12-2021||Pune||Privacy, autonomy, education matter much more than raising age of marriage: activists||PUNE On Thursday, the Union Cabinet cleared a proposal to raise the legal age for marriage of women from 18 to 21 years. In the upcoming winter session, the central government is likely to make legislative amendments regarding the same. However, activists from the city note that making amends on paper may not give relief to girls or decrease the rising cases of child marriages in the state.Kiran Moghe, member of All India Democratic Women’s Association (AIDWA) said that the organisation strongly disagrees with the recent Union Cabinet decision to raise the age of marriage to 21 from 18 years for girls. “This move, ostensibly for ‘women’s empowerment’, will be totally ineffective in a situation where the government has failed to meet even the most basic nutritional, educational and employment needs of the people. The move will in fact be counterproductive since raising the age of marriage for girls will result in further targeting of choice marriages. It will act as a way to control the sexuality of a young girl, who already faces an uphill task to marry someone of her choice,” said Moghe. She added that studies have shown and we know from our experience that criminalisation of consensual sexual activity between young persons has often led to charges of kidnapping, rape and other crimes including under the Prohibition of Child Marriage Act, 2006, leading to the breaking of these unions and incarceration of the young man involved. “Such a measure will therefore result in affecting the basic constitutional rights of women to privacy and autonomy. The argument that the age of marriage of women should be raised to bring about gender equality is also fallacious,” said Moghe.AIDWA had previously demanded that the age of marriage of boys should in fact be reduced to 18 years, that is, the age of majority, by when all persons have the right to vote and have the capacity to enter into contracts. “The 18th Law Commission had also recommended that the age of marriage should be 18 for boys to bring about parity. This will also stop the boy from being subjected to various criminal penalties. This move to raise the marriageable age is clearly a diversionary tactic from a government which refuses to allocate adequate resources towards nutritional programs like the ICDS, education and healthcare. If, as has been noted, the nutritional status of women remains low from birth onwards, getting married at 21 and having a child after that cannot improve the condition of maternal and child health or mortality,” said Moghe.In an official statement, AIDWA has demanded that the government should scrap this move to raise the age of marriage of girls to 21. City-based education activist Mukund Kirdat said that on paper changes can rarely be reflected in implementation. “There is an increasing number of child marriages across Maharashtra due to the Covid pandemic. And there is no system through which a girl can fight back. In cases of child marriages, the family of the girl is involved and there is no system developed by police or governing bodies to help the girls or related family members to register the matter. There should be sensitivity among government officials. There is some awareness in urban areas, but if this change is brought, cases of child marriages in rural parts will be hidden. Effective implementation is important,” said Kirdat. Varsha Deshapande, women’s right activist and lawyer said that the change is just on paper.“There is no budget allocation or system in place to empower and spread awareness among young girls and boys. In such a case, increasing the age of girls won’t make much a difference on paper,” said Deshpande.IMA supports decisionThe Indian Medical Association (IMA) Maharashtra State has, however, supported the decision made by the government.“The new decision will safeguard the education of girls and their future motherhood. This decision will also help for better nutritional levels of future mothers and children. Infant Mortality Rate (IMR) and Maternal Mortality Rate (MMR) will see further drop,” said IMA in an official statement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/privacy-autonomy-education-matter-much-more-than-raising-age-of-marriage-activists-101639757219049.html
17-12-2021||Pune||Bring traditional food culture back to life, says Sunita Narain at KVIFF closing ceremony||PUNE First food not fast food should be stressed upon said Sunita Narain, director general of the Centre for Science and Environment (CSE), and environmentalist, at the concluding session of the 15th edition of the Kirloskar Vasundhara International Film Festival (KVIFF). The festival that began on December 14, 2021 was held online.This year, the festival stressed on the theme of Nutritious Food, Flourishing Nature, and Healthy Society, to highlight nutrition and food from across the globe.“Due to blind imitation of modernisation, we have forgotten our traditional food culture. We need to make traditional food culture a part of our lifestyle to restore the health of nature and alternatively human beings,” said Narain. She said, “We are also indirectly harming the next generation, by mocking the traditional food culture. We are hurting our own roots, but interestingly while urban citizens are facing more after effects of the fast food culture, the rural health graph is better for traditional food culture is still prevalent in rural India. There is a need to rethink and re-evaluate the lifestyle and food habits.” In her speech, she stressed upon the natural diversity of India leading to difference in the food culture of the villages, but it is this difference that is conducive to human health. “This diverse food culture needs to be preserved. The geographical climate, soil, water, nature, and other environmental factors have a positive effect on the mental and physical health of human beings. If you interfere in that natural cycle, you will have to suffer the negative effects of its health,” said Narain.Prof Reuven Yosef from Israel was also felicitated with at the closing ceremony of the festival. He is originally from Pune and is the Visionary of Israel Conservation Award winner.Festival organiser Virendra Chitrav said that the work of Prof Yousef, who is the Director, International Budding and Research Centre, Israel, has been inspiring.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/bring-traditional-food-culture-back-to-life-says-sunita-narain-at-kviff-closing-ceremony-101639756138564.html
17-12-2021||Pune||All Christmas services in Pune to end by 11pm on December 24: Bishop Dabre||PUNE The Right Reverend Fr Thomas Dabre, Bishop of Pune, on Friday, issued norms for Christmas services to be held at churches in the city. Bishop Dabre said: “We are intensively aware that we are Indians first and Indians last. As patriotic citizens it’s our duty to collaborate with the state and central government for the wellbeing of citizens.” He added: “Let us celebrate Christmas in a responsible manner and follow all the government regulations. Let us set a shining example of being good citizens and good Christians.” The guidelines specified in a circular addressed to all priests, communities and churches in Pune stated, that all Christmas services are to be concluded by 11pm. Bishop’s advisory for Christmas services in the Pune diocese - Churches may conduct multiple services on 24th December 2021 evening and on Christmas Day. - All Christmas services are to be concluded by 11pm - Up to 50 per cent of space in churches and 25 per cent of the open spaces can be used for services. - Outdoor programmes are permitted. - Total number of people present for any gathering should not exceed 1,000 - All must wear a face mask at all time and maintain social distancing||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/all-christmas-services-in-pune-to-end-by-11pm-on-december-24-bishop-dabre-101639755838470.html
17-12-2021||Pune||6 more Omicron cases reported in Pune district||PUNE Six more patients tested positive for the Omicron variant in Pune district on Friday, as per the National Institute of Virology (NIV). Apart from the six in Pune, one case in Mumbai and one case from Kalyan Dombivli have tested positive for Omicron on Friday, taking the state tally for the variant to 40. According to health department officials, till date Mumbai has 14 cases, Pimpri-Chinchwad has 10, Pune (rural) has six, Pune Municipal Corporation has two, Kalyan Dombivali has two, Osmanabad has two and Latur, Buldhana, Nagpur, and Vasai Virar have one case each of the Omicron variant. Speaking about the cases, Dr Pradeep Awate, state surveillance officer said that of these eight cases, seven are asymptomatic and one has mild symptoms. All patients have been vaccinated. “All these laboratory samples were taken in the first week of December. All eight patients are men and between the age group of 29 and 45 years. According to preliminary information, four patients from Pune have a history of travel to Dubai, two are their contacts. One patient from Mumbai had travelled to the USA and other patient from Kalyan Dombivli had travelled to Nigeria. Of these 8 patients, two are in hospital and six in home isolation. The close contacts of these patients are being tracked,” said Dr Awate. Officials noted that at least 15 close contacts of each patient have been traced and tested. Of the total 40 cases, 25 cases have been discharged following a negative RTPCR test.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/6-more-omicron-cases-reported-in-pune-district-101639755658306.html
17-12-2021||Mumbai||Nigeria returnee in Kalyan Dombivli tests positive for Omicron a day after his negative RT-PCR report||A 45-year-old Nigeria returnee tested positive for Omicron in Dombivli on Friday, a day after his RT-PCR test emerged negative. He was discharged on Friday after being in quarantine for 15 days. He will continue to be in home isolation for another week.“The man, along with his wife and two children, was in institutional quarantine after they tested positive for Covid on December 3. On December 16, all four tested negative and we decided to discharge them on Friday. However, the father’s report for the Omicron variant was reported as positive on Friday while those of the other three are pending. The family has been discharged following all the protocols and strict home isolation for the next seven days,” said Dr Pratibha Panpatil, epidemic officer, KDMC.This marked the second case of Omicron in Kalyan-Dombivli Municipal Corporation (KDMC) limits. Earlier, a 33-year-old South Africa returnee tested positive for Omicron, marking the first case of Maharashtra state.As per the KDMC health department, during the ongoing vaccination survey, the team came across four from a family who returned from Nigeria. On December 2, the civic health department carried out RT-PCR tests for all the four and they reported positive on December 3.“The family comprises a husband, wife and two children, 10 years and 6 years. The parents have taken their Covid vaccine earlier. The family was admitted to a Covid centre in Kalyan and their samples were sent for genome sequencing,” added Panpatil. “Since it takes time to get the genome sequencing report, we keep doing the RT-PCR and once the patient is negative, a discharge is given to the patient and also asked to home quarantine and follow all the norms,” added Panpatil.Meanwhile, the KDMC health department has managed to trace and test 24 high-risk contacts and 62 low-risk contacts of the family, in which four high-risk contacts have tested positive. The four have been admitted to institutional quarantine centre and all four of them do not have any symptoms. Meanwhile, their samples would also be sent for genome sequencing.
17-12-2021||Chandigarh||BSP leadership sold party to Akali Dal: Channi||Punjab chief minister (CM) Charanjit Singh Channi on Friday said the Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) leadership has backstabbed the scheduled caste brethren by “selling” its seats to the Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD). The CM also announced to accord the status of sub-division to Kartarpur and Adampur cities of Jalandhar district, besides setting up a chair in the name of Baba Sain and Bhagat Namdev.Addressing a gathering at Partapura grain market in Jalandhar, the Punjab CM said the BSP no longer represents the ideology of its founder Kanshi Ram, who aimed to empower the SC community. He said the BSP has sold 15 of the total 20 seats allotted to it to Akali Dal. ‘Kejriwal’s own people don’t have faith in him’Training guns against AAP supremo Arvind Kejriwal, the CM dared him to explain why Punjabis should believe him when “his own flock doesn’t have faith in him”. He said three out of four AAP MPs elected in 2014 and 11 out of 20 MLAs elected in 2017 have left the party fold. Channi said this is indicative of the fact that AAP is a house of cards that is bound to fall in a day or two. The CM said that Kejriwal has no basic knowledge about state.The CM also announced grants worth ₹200 crore for Jalandhar. He said that Sri Guru Ravi Dass Bani research centre will come up over 100 acres in Ballan village and a research centre on Bhagwad Geeta will be set up in Patiala. In his address, cabinet minister Pargat Singh said Captain’s link with BJP and Akalis has been exposed as he had connived with them to harm interests of state. Addressing the gathering, former MP Sunil Jakhar said that first bugle against the draconian farm laws was blown by Punjab farmers and ultimately the NDA government had to take the decision back. All India Congress general secretary Harish Chaudhary also slammed the Akali, BJP and AAP leadership for working against the interest of the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/bsp-leadership-sold-party-to-akali-dal-channi-101639754938603.html
17-12-2021||Chandigarh||SAD chief raises questions on top cops’ rejig in Punjab||Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) president Sukhbir Singh Badal on Friday alleged that the Congress government was shifting top police officers in order to implicate Akali leaders in drugs and other criminal cases. Talking to media persons on the sidelines of a public meeting at Johlan village in Hoshiarpur, the former Punjab deputy chief minister alleged that the change in director general of police (DGP) was also part of the same “conspiracy”.In a late-night reshuffle on Thursday, the Punjab government had appointed Sidharth Chattopadhyaya as the officiating DGP replacing IPS Sahota.Sukhbir alleged that police officers were being coerced to act against SAD leaders, and said the Bureau of Investigation (BoI) chief’s recent letter had exposed the government’s “mala fide intensions”.In the confidential letter to the Punjab DGP, which was leaked on social media, the BoI chief had expressed reservations in taking action against a senior SAD leader on the basis of a special task force report lying in a sealed cover with the high court.Warning bureaucrats and police officers against becoming a party to the “vendetta drive” of the Congress, Sukhbir said the wrongdoers will be taken to task once the SAD-BSP alliance forms the government in Punjab.The Channi government has lately been under a mounting pressure, notably from state Congress chief Navjot Singh Sidhu, to act on the STF report on alleged complicity of certain political leaders and police officials in the drug racket.Meanwhile, the SAD has repeatedly alleged that the Punjab government is trying to frame its top leaders in false drugs cases, a charge denied by the Congress.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/sad-chief-raises-questions-on-top-cops-rejig-in-punjab-101639754879693.html
17-12-2021||Chandigarh||Atta-Dal scheme: SAD alleges misuse of govt machinery in Punjab||The Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) on Friday alleged misuse of government machinery in issuing cards under the Atta-Dal scheme in Punjab, while requesting the Election Commission of India (ECI) to intervene and give relevant directions to the Congress government.In a complaint filed with the ECI, SAD senior vice-president Daljit Singh Cheema alleged that the beneficiaries were being pressured by food and civil supplies inspectors to get a recommendation from the Congress legislators or constituency in-charges, who in turn were affixing a hologram on applications that were then being accepted for issuing the card.Terming it an “illegal and politically motivated” exercise aimed at influencing the voters, Cheema said it is a brazen misuse of government machinery. “This is prevalent across the state, and especially in the chief minister’s home district of Ropar,” the SAD leader alleged, while demanding a high-level probe into the matter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/attadal-scheme-sad-alleges-misuse-of-govt-machinery-in-punjab-101639754878221.html
17-12-2021||Mumbai||3 arrested in Navi Mumbai for issuing fake Covid vaccine certificates||APMC police have arrested three persons including a Navi Mumbai Municipal Corporation (NMMC) employee for allegedly issuing fake Covid vaccine certificates for ₹3,000.Police seized one fake certificate and six fake universal passes. According to the police, people who wanted a universal pass and had not been vaccinated, used to approach them for the certificate.The arrested have been identified as Amol Kisan Zende (35), who worked at Turbhe urban primary health centre, Nitin Anandrao Shinde (34) and Viraj Vakshe (29). Shinde and Vakshe ran photocopy centres at APMC and brought customers to Zende.“Prima facie it seems that those who approached them were registered by Zende using the user ID and password of Turbhe UPHC in the CoWIN app. While they did all the formalities of the vaccine, the actual shot was not taken and a certificate was issued. We are investigating if any more people are involved in this and how many in total were provided with the fake certificates till now,” a police officer from APMC police station said.The fraud came to light after the police received information and they sent a fake customer to the accused for the vaccination. The accused were caught red-handed while accepting the money and issuing the certificate. The certificates issued belong to people from Dombivli, Thane and also Mumbai.The accused have been arrested under the relevant sections of the Indian Penal Code and The Epidemic Diseases Act, 1897.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/3-arrested-in-navi-mumbai-for-issuing-fake-covid-vaccine-certificates-101639754698305.html
17-12-2021||Mumbai||Delivery boy meets with accident, scooter stolen while he lay unconscious||A 24-year-old delivery boy lay bleeding and unconscious for more than 30 minutes after meeting with an accident in the early hours of December 13. During this time, some unidentified persons, instead of helping him, took his scooter, which was crucial for his livelihood, and fled the scene.According to the Naupada police, the victim, Shyam Salve, stays near the Siddheshwar Lake in Thane, and works as a delivery boy with a private firm based at the Teen Haat Naka, 20 minutes away from his residence. The police said that at around 1.30am on December 13, Salve was on his way home on a Suzuki Access which he had borrowed from his friend as it was useful for his job, when he met with an accident.“Salve was riding on the service road near Nitin Company when he hit a metal plate laid down by the municipal corporation for road repairs. The plate was slightly elevated from the road’s level, and Salve failed to see it as it was dark at that stretch. As a result, he lost control, skidded and hit the road hard, sustaining injuries to his face, hands and legs,” police sub-inspector Sangam Patil, Naupada police station, said.For the next 30 to 40 minutes, Salve lay on the road, injured and unconscious. When he finally regained consciousness, he looked around only to find himself alone on the road and his scooter missing. He tried looking for it nearby but failed to find it, and, due to his injuries, was in no condition to look any further.A panicked Salve then called up some of his friends who rushed to the spot and took him to a hospital for treatment while also informing his family about the incident. After resting for two days and consulting family and friends regarding further course of action, Salve visited the Naupada police station on Wednesday and registered a complaint.“We have lodged an offence of theft against unknown persons under the Indian Penal Code and are investigating the matter. We took the victim to the scene of the accident on Wednesday and found that there are no CCTV cameras covering the exact spot where the incident occurred. We are now looking for any cameras covering the roads leading to the spot while other methods of investigation are also being used,” Patil said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/delivery-boy-meets-with-accident-scooter-stolen-while-he-lay-unconscious-101639753799517.html
17-12-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab cabinet gives nod to regularise 1,925 assistant profs||The Punjab cabinet on Friday approved to regularise the services of 1,925 assistant professors appointed on contract against vacancies in various government-aided colleges of the state three years ago. The decision was taken during a cabinet meeting chaired by chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi at Punjab Bhawan in Chandigarh. According to a spokesperson of the chief minister’s office, the cabinet had approved filling up 1,925 vacant posts of assistant professors in grant-in-aid colleges of the state in a phased manner with a salary of ₹21,600 (basic pay plus grade pay) on contract for three years. On completion of three years of service, their work and performance was evaluated by the notified evaluation committees and it has been recommended to regularise them, said the spokesperson. Two new degree colleges in Doaba The cabinet also gave its approval for setting up two new government degree colleges in Jalandhar and SBS Nagar districts in Punjab’s Doaba region. According to the decision, Kanshi Ram Government College will be opened at Adampur (Jalandhar) from the next academic session (July 1, 2022) and another degree college will come up at Sarhala Ranuwan village in Banga (SBS Nagar).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-cabinet-gives-nod-to-regularise-1-925-assistant-profs-101639753438211.html
17-12-2021||Mumbai||2 booked for stealing customers’ information in Navi Mumbai||NRI Coastal Police have booked two engineers working for an internet service provider for stealing the data of the customers from the company and then using it for the benefit of another internet service provider.The duo, identified as Sandeep Bagal and Vinay Ambre, has been accused of stealing the data of the customers from the office of the complainant even after they resigned.“The complainant has alleged that they have found CCTV footage in which the accused are seen stealing data of customers even after they submitted their resignation. The complainant has also accused the duo of informing the customers that the company would soon be shutting down and named another internet service provider as the one who would be providing the service henceforth,” a police officer from NRI Coastal police station said.From November, many customers had started complaining to the victim company that they have been receiving calls and messages about the company shutting down following which the company, with the help of a cyber-expert, internally investigated and found the former employees to be the culprits. The company then approached the police with their complaint.“We have registered the case and are investigating. No arrest has been made till now,” the officer added. The duo has been booked under the relevant sections of the IPC and IT Act.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/2-booked-for-stealing-customers-information-in-navi-mumbai-101639752957932.html
17-12-2021||Mumbai||8 more Omicron cases in Maharashtra, 6 in Pune alone; state’s tally reaches 40||Maharashtra reported eight more cases of the Omicron variant of the coronavirus, which have now taken the state’s tally of such infections to 40, the health department said on Friday.Of the eight new Omicron cases, six have been reported from Pune and Mumbai and Kalyan Dombivli saw one case each.“As per the report given by National Institute of Virology today, 8 more patients were found to be infected with Omicron in the state. Out of these, 6 patients are from Pune, 1 patient is from Mumbai and 1 patient is from Kalyan Dombival,” the Maharashtra health department said.However, 25 of these patients have been discharged after they tested negative for the coronavirus disease, the health department also said.Also read | Sputnik V, with booster of Light, could be over 80% effective against Omicron: RDIFThe health department noted all the eight patients, who tested positive for the Omicron variant, are vaccinated and assured that people who came in close contact with them were being traced. Only two patients have been hospitalised after testing positive while the rest have been confined to home isolation.It also said that seven of the eight patients were asymptomatic while one of them exhibited mild symptoms. All the patients were men belonging to the 29 to 45 age group, it added.In Pune, four patients travelled to Dubai, the person who was found infected in Mumbai returned from the United States and the patient in Kalyan Dombivli came back from Nigeria.Meanwhile, the state also reported 902 new infections of Covid-19 in the last 24 hours. As many as 12 people also lost their lives, taking the state’s death toll to 141,329, according to the latest data.Also read | Over 100 Omicron cases in India across 11 states, UTs; 32 in Maharashtra alone: CentreTo this, the capital city of Mumbai added 289 new Covid-19 cases and one fatality. Further, 680 people recovered from the disease, taking the overall recoveries to 6,495,929.The Union ministry of health and family welfare in its regular press briefing insisted people must follow Covid appropriate behaviour such as wearing face masks and maintaining social distancing.Balram Bhargava, the director general of the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), also stressed the need for a “low intensity” celebration of Christmas and New Year and warned against non-essential travel.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/8-more-omicron-cases-in-maharashtra-6-in-pune-alone-state-s-tally-reaches-40-101639751077956.html
17-12-2021||Chandigarh||49% teaching posts in Nuh government schools vacant: Haryana education minister||At least 49% posts of teachers, including 64% of trained graduate teachers (TGTs), are lying vacant in the Muslim-dominated Mewat region of Haryana, education minister Kanwar Pal informed the Vidhan Sabha during the opening of winter session on Friday. Aftab Ahmed of the Congress, who represents Nuh assembly segment, had asked the government for information on the total number of teachers working and posts lying vacant in Mewat cadre. The Nuh MLA said the state government is not dealing with the issue with the seriousness it requires. Nuh district has 938 government schools. Responding to pleas of the Nuh MLA, the education minister, while admitting shortage of teachers, said steps were being taken to fill the posts. He said hiring teachers through outsourcing, guest faculty and re-employment were among other options the state government was exploring to overcome the shortage of teachers. The education minister informed the House that proposal has been sent to Haryana Staff Selection Commission (HSSC) to recruit 315 PGT, 370 TGT and 952 PRT in Mewat cadre. The commission has informed that the recruitment process will be completed in four to five months, he said. Of the 8,506 sanctioned posts, 4,181 posts are vacant while 4,325 teachers are posted in the district, the state government said in response to the question of the Congress MLA. Among the vacant posts are 1,439 of primary teachers/head teachers; 1,642 of TGTs; 1,053 of PGTs and 18 of principals. In past seven years, 49 principals were appointed on promotion in 2019 and 44 this year, while no high school headmaster was posted via promotion in Mewat since 2015. The government said that 91 elementary school headmasters were posted after promotion in Mewat cadre in the past seven years. The education minister said as many as 619 primary teachers (445 in 2017, 16 in 2018 and 168 in 2019) were also appointed by direct recruitment in the area. Going abroad illegally Haryana home minister Anil Vij told the House that police have arrested 591 people and registered 485 cases against the agents sending people abroad illegally. The minister said whenever cases of people being sent abroad through illegal means are reported, immediate action is taken. He said SIT was set up to tighten the noose around those involved in what is known as Kabutarbazi cases. He said final-year students of all colleges in Haryana are getting free passports. Vij said at present, there is no proposal under consideration in the technical education department to set up any government agency to send the students of Haryana abroad for higher education. Plan for waterlogging Chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar said a detailed plan has been prepared to deal with waterlogging. A scheme would be started shortly and a dedicated portal for the same would be launched in January. The state government has planned to deal with this problem on a large scale. Khattar said about 4 to 5 lakh acre has waterlogging problem in the state. The state government has made a plan to deal with the problem of waterlogging initially across 1 lakh acre land.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/49-teaching-posts-in-nuh-government-schools-vacant-haryana-education-minister-101639751937625.html
17-12-2021||Mumbai||Thane residents live in fear after sighting leopard; forest officials find no signs of wild cat||There was fear among residents in Thane after locals spotted a leopard at Pokhran Road No. 1 near Vartak Nagar on Thursday night.Disaster management officials and forest officers were present at the spot on Friday morning. However, no pug marks or other signs were noted, claimed the forest officers.“We surveyed the area. As it is closer to the forest, the leopard may have wandered unknowingly. We have kept cameras in these areas that will spot the leopard. If repeated sightings take place, only then will we take a call for any action,” said Dinesh Desale, Range Forest Officer. He also assured the locals not to panic and that this could be just a one-off incident.As the Bhimanagar chawls, where the leopard was spotted by locals, have concrete floors, finding any pug marks would have been difficult. Santosh Kharat, a resident of Bhimanagar, said, “I had just returned from work past midnight and was having a chat with my neighbours. This is when one of my friends saw some animal jumping over the rooftop of our houses. He assumed it to be a monkey. I turned and took a few steps ahead when I saw the leopard sprinting across towards a small lane that leads to a housing society adjacent to our chawl.”Soon after, the locals informed the police and animal welfare groups. They switched on all the lights near the chawl to drive away the wild cat. Videos of the leopard roaming inside a housing society and then running back to where it came from are circulating on social media.However, despite repeated attempts, HT could not get in touch with the housing society. Moreover, the forest officials confirmed that there was nothing to panic and necessary precautions were in place.Two years back a leopard was spotted in a mall at night, hardly 2km away from this spot. Moreover, last month a few locals from Manpada also allegedly spotted a leopard but no such signs were found by the police or forest department.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/thane-residents-live-in-fear-after-sighting-leopard-forest-officials-find-no-signs-of-wild-cat-101639750079553.html
17-12-2021||Chandigarh||Ramban mishap: 1 dead, 2 hurt as car plunges into 50-ft gorge||A 19-year-old youth died while two brothers got injured as their car veered off the road and plunged into a 50-ft gorge in Batote area of Ramban district on Friday, said officials. The deceased was identified as Vikas Kumar, 19, son of Sanjay Kumar of Bhaderwah. “An Alto car (JK 06/ 8771), on its way from Bhaderwah to Jammu, veered off the road due to slippery conditions and plunged into a 50-ft gorge near Bhagu Nullah in Batote area on Friday, leading to the death of a 19-year-old youth. Two other occupants, who are brothers, were also hurt in the mishap,” said a police official. The injured brothers were referred to Government Medical College in Jammu in view of their critical condition, he added. They were identified as Rahul Anand, 27, Shiv Prakash, 22, sons of Dhuni Chand of Bhaderwah.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ramban-mishap-1-dead-2-hurt-as-car-plunges-into-50-ft-gorge-101639750077575.html
17-12-2021||Pune||Plan is to target every village in Pune to ensure 2nd dose of Covid vaccine administered||PUNE The performance of four tehsils where the percentage of second-dose beneficiaries is below 50%, has slightly improved in a week. However, in Indapur Tehsil the percentage of second-dose beneficiaries is lowest in the district, at 44%. As per information shared by the office of Pune district health officer (DHO), 64% of the eligible population in the district has received the second dose. To boost it further, health officials are now going to focus on the village level and prepare a plan accordingly. Last week, the four tehsils, Baramati, Daund, Indapur and Bhor, had the lower percentage of second- dose beneficiaries, below 50%. As per the numbers till December 14, this percentage has slightly increased. Now the second-dose beneficiaries of the eligible population in Baramati has increased by 5% to 56%, in Bhor by 5% to 50%, in Daund by 5% to 52% and in Indapur by 4% to 44%. Health officials from the district administration said that now a village wise plan would be created to boost vaccination. “I am conducting a meeting with all block development officers (BDOs), tehsildar and other officials with regard to boosting vaccination percentages. We are going to ask them to prepare a plan for every village so that targeted and focused efforts can be made in the areas where the percentage is low,” said Dr Bhagwan Pawar, district health officer, Pune. As on December 16, there were 1,329,680 eligible beneficiaries due for the second dose in Pune district. Of this number, 553,109 are from rural parts and 776,571 are from limits of Pune Municipal Corporation and Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation. “We had conducted major vaccination drives in the months of August and September in which more than 100,000 doses were administered daily. So as per the vaccination norms after 84 days we are witnessing the rise in the number of people due for second dose,” said Dr Bhagwan Pawar. A total of 26,898 frontline workers and 4,975 healthcare workers in the district are also due for a second dose. Earlier, Pune Zilla Parishad CEO Ayush Prasad had said that a five-step plan would be implemented to encourage the second dose beneficiaries to get the jab.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/plan-is-to-target-every-village-in-pune-to-ensure-2nd-dose-of-covid-vaccine-administered-101639749837521.html
17-12-2021||Chandigarh||BKU Ugrahan to hold dharnas outside DC offices in Punjab||Days after returning from the Delhi borders, the state leadership of Bhartiya Kisan Union (Ekta-Ugrahan) announced on Friday fresh protests against the Congress government in Punjab to highlight its various unfulfilled pre-poll promises. Claiming that chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi had cancelled a meeting with the union leaders in a “dictatorial” manner, BKU Ugrahan state general secretary Sukhdev Singh Kokrikalan said the union will hold dharnas in front of deputy commissioner offices from December 20 to 24 across the state.“We demand that the government gives ₹17,000 per acre to farmers and 10% compensation to farm labourers for pink bollworm attack on cotton and damage of other crops due to rain. The government should ensure hiked prices of ₹360 per quintal for sugarcane from sugar mills. The families of farmers and farm labourers who have committed suicide should be given ₹3 lakh compensation, a government job and debt waiver,” said Kokrikalan.The farm leader also said that the state government should quash all FIRs against farmers registered during the agitation against agricultural laws and give ₹5 lakh compensation and a government job to the kin of those who died during the struggle.“As promised before the 2017 state assembly elections, farm debt and drug menace should be ended along with punishment to political leaders and officers involved in the illegal business. Also, the Punjab DSP who beat unemployed youths during the CM’s rally in Mansa should be booked,” added Kokrikalan.The BKU Ugrahan has been holding indefinite dharnas at toll plazas against the hiked charges in Sangrur, Barnala, Fazilka, Moga and other districts along with farmer unions associated with Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM) in Punjab.
17-12-2021||Pune||Pune-based firm’s testing kit cleared to detect all variants of Covid||PUNE A testing kit indigenously developed by the Pune-based GenePath Diagnostics has been approved by the Indian Council for Medical Research (ICMR) to detect all current variants of Covid-19. The kit will flag for presumptive Delta and Omicron variants all in a single test.Dr Nikhil Phadke, founder and chief science officer at GenePath Diagnostics said that the was able to flag the presence of the first Omicron case in Pune city which was subsequently confirmed by the Government of India’s Indian SARS-CoV-2 Genomics Consortium (INSACOG) which comprises the Pune-based Council for Scientific and Industrial Research National Chemical laboratory (CSIR-NCL), Indian Institute of Science Education and Research (IISER) and BJ Medical College (BJMC), among other organisations across the country. “Several government and private organisations in India and internationally are now evaluating the use of this kit as part of their diagnostic and surveillance efforts,” said Dr Phadke.Dr Nickhil Jakatdar, CEO, GenePath Diagnostics said that the development is a step further to improve human life by building and deploying high quality, accessible and affordable screening and diagnostic solutions for infectious diseases, cancers and genetic disorders.Speaking about the new kit, Jakatdar added that this kit is capable of detecting all important Covid-19 variants described across the world to date including the currently dominant Delta and Omicron variants. “This made-in-India kit is fast and cost effective. It has been approved by ICMR with 100 per cent sensitivity and specificity,” said Jakatdar.According to Dr Phadke one of the most important highlights of this test kit is its ability to reliably differentiate all current Delta lineages and all Omicron lineages including BA.1, BA.2, which are also known as Omicron-like and stealth variants and the very recently proposed BA.3 lineage. “All the Omicron lineages share a number of common defining mutations. The BA.2 sub-lineage, however, does not carry the Spike gene del69-70 mutation, and hence, will not be detected by the so called ‘S-gene target failure’ (SGTF) approach using other commercial kits that are currently being used for that purpose. In fact, a large percentage (as high as 70%) of recently sequenced cases (primarily from South Africa, Australia and Canada) reportedly belong to the BA.2 sub-lineage, and have failed being flagged by the aforementioned SGTF approach,” said Dr Phadke.GenePath’s ICMR approved CoviDelta kit, however, targets the downstream Spike L452R mutation which is present in the Delta lineage, but absent in all the Omicron sub-lineages.“Furthermore, the kit contains additional multiple independent Covid-19 targets providing resilience to current and emerging mutations. Therefore, GenePath’s kit will continue to detect all variants of Covid-19 with high sensitivity and specificity and reliably differentiate between all current Delta and Omicron lineages,” said Dr Phadke.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/punebased-firm-s-testing-kit-cleared-to-detect-all-variants-of-covid-101639749537490.html
17-12-2021||Pune||Paper leak case: Commissioner of Maharashtra State Council of Examination Tukaram Supe held||PUNE The Pune Police have arrested Tukaram Supe, commissioner of Maharashtra State Council of Examination, in connection with the Teachers’ Eligibility Test (TET) paper leak case.The cyber police station Shivajinagar had summoned Supe for questioning on Thursday following which he was arrested late at night.Supe is accused of accepting money for leaking the paper to candidates.The state government had cancelled all the exams after irregularities in the Maharashtra Housing and Regional Development Authority (MHADA) exams came to light. Police have arrested six people, including Pritish Deshmukh, director of GA Software Technologies Pvt Ltd, which was given the contract of conducting recruitment exams for various departments during the earlier raid.During a search operation at the house of Deshmukh, the police had found TET admit cards. Also, the hall tickets of some ineligible students were seized. Therefore, there was a suspicion of malpractice in the TET examination and the investigation was carried out accordingly. Pune police had called Supe for questioning and placed him under arrest, an investigator said.Amitabh Gupta, Pune police commissioner, said, “Supe has been arrested by the cyber cell based on the information collected during the questioning regarding the malpractices during the exams.” Gupta also said that ₹90 lakh cash was seized from Supe’s residence . “During investigation, we seized Rs90 lakh in cash and gold from his residence. Besides him there are other accused in the case and further investigation is underway.”The MHADA Pune Board on December 11 had lodged a complaint with the cyber police station after MHADA and the technical committee of Maharashtra Public Service Commission (MPSC) received the information that the contractor company was allegedly trying to leak the paper. The police received a tip-off that an agent would come to meet the director of the company. Police then arrested Deshmukh and two agents from Vishrantwadi at 10 pm on December 11. Two more agents were arrested from Aurangabad later on December 12.The police investigation has further expanded to Mumbai, Pune and Aurangabad after interrogation of the accused during custody.The process of filling 565 vacancies for various posts in MHADA, meanwhile, has been going on for several months now. For the said recruitment test, GA Software Technologies was chosen and accordingly, the examination was scheduled on December 12, 15, 19 and 20 at various centres in all the divisional boards of MHADA.Nearly 53 lakh applications were received for 565 posts by the concerned authorities.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/paper-leak-case-commissioner-of-maharashtra-state-council-of-examination-tukaram-supe-held-101639749237483.html
17-12-2021||Lucknow||Amit Shah urges Ram bhakt Nishads to help BJP win 300-plus seats in Uttar Pradesh||Union home minister Amit Shah on Friday urged the Nishad community to help the BJP win 300-plus seats in the 403-member Uttar Pradesh assembly. He promised the politically influential riverine community members that if re-elected, the BJP would fulfil all the long pending demands of “Ram bhakt” Nishads.Besides, he played up the inauguration of Kashi Vishwanath Corridor in Varanasi (on December 13) and foundation laying stone of Ram temple at Ayodhya by Prime Minister Narendra Modi (on August 5, 2020).The home minister was addressing a joint show of strength by the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and its pre-poll ally Nishad party in Lucknow.The Nishads, currently listed among the Other Backward Castes (OBCs), have been demanding inclusion in the Scheduled Caste (SC) category. “Once we form the government again, the BJP would honour all long pending demands of yours,” Shah said. “Mujhe batayein iss baar Nishad party BJP ki 300 paar ki ladai ladenge kya? … SP, BSP ka soopda saaf ho, Congress ka khata na khule aisa karenge kya? (Tell me, if you would fight BJP’s 300 plus campaign and help oust SP, BSP and stop Congress from opening its account?),” he asked the Nishads at the Rambai Ambedkar grounds, the biggest rally venue in Lucknow.He credited the Nishad community’s support in the 2019 Lok Sabha polls for the BJP’s landslide win despite a SP-BSP alliance in UP. Shah’s address at the joint rally was punctuated with references to Ayodhya and Kashi, the two religious centres that are undergoing a makeover under the BJP rule. A third pilgrim town, Mathura, has been in the news ever since deputy chief minister Keshav Prasad Maurya tweeted about it being part of the plan where grandeur is yet to be restored.Chief minister Yogi Adityanath is set to flag off one of BJP’s six yatras from Mathura on Sunday.Nishads find a mention in Ramcharitmanas, a holy book of the Hindus, as the ones who took Lord Ram, Sita and Lakshman on a boat when they went into exile.Shah promptly referred to the passage which states that Nishadraj (leader of the boatmen) wept on seeing Lord Ram and Sita sleeping on the floor during their period in exile. Shah then used the passage to make a political point. “We have read in Ramcharitmanas how Nishadraj wept on seeing Lord Ram and Sita sleep on the floor but decades later, Lord Ram continued to be in a makeshift temple till PM Modi arrived. You all know who stopped the Ram temple from coming up? Now, Modiji has laid the foundation where grand Ram temple will shortly come up. The grandeur of Kashi Vishwanath Corridor too has just been restored,” Shah said. Eighteen UP districts have a sizeable presence of Nishad community members and they are currently being wooed by all political parties. Shah sharing the stage with the Nishad party was an indication that the BJP could placate the community in ticket distribution, BJP leaders said. Sanjay Nishad’s son Praveen Nishad is currently a Lok Sabha MP. He was elected from UP’s Sant Kabir Nagar on the BJP ticket in the 2019 Lok Sabha polls, barely a year after being elected as the Samajwadi Party (SP) candidate from Gorakhpur in the 2018 Lok Sabha by-polls. The Nishad party claims a significant presence in 160 of the 403 assembly seats in UP. While the BJP’s surveys to assess the winnability of candidates are on, the Nishad party, too, has been doing surveys to identify the seats it can win in eastern UP.“In the 2019 elections, Modi ji had agreed to a request for a separate department for riverine community and, on being re-elected, the promise was promptly kept,” Shah said referring to how the fishery division was carved out of the department of animal husbandry, dairying and fisheries vide the cabinet secretariat’s notification.Chief minister Yogi Adityanath spoke of how his government had beautified the Nishadraj Fort in Shringverpur near Prayagraj where a grand statue of Lord Ram and Nishadraj holding each other in embrace was coming up. Shah and Yogi urged the riverine community members to take the message of PM Modi and Yogi to each and every home. In the presence of Shah and Yogi, Nishad party leader Sanjay Nishad told his community that the BJP government at the Centre and in UP had set the process in motion, tasking top leaders and officials with the job of including Nishads in the SC category. The Nishads are currently among the OBCs.“I can tell you that SP Goyal, principal secretary to UP chief minister, UP minister Sidharth Nath Singh and union education minister and UP BJP’s election in-charge Dharmendra Pradhan are working on that,” said Sanjay Nishad who was recently nominated to the upper house of UP legislature by the BJP government for a six-year term.
17-12-2021||Chandigarh||Himachal’s Hatti community revives 50-yr-old demand for tribal status||With just about a year left for the state assembly elections, the Hatti community of the backward Sirmaur district has renewed its five-decade old demand for according tribal status to 147 panchayats located in the Trans-Giri region. Different organisations of the Hatti community have given a joint call to hold “Khumblis” congregation at the panchayat-level on December 25 to draw the future course of action to persuade the government to grant tribal status to the Trans-Giri region. Khumblis are traditionally held in old Himachal to redress disputes related to a person or a property. Nearly 50% of the population in Sirmaur district comprises the dominant “Hatti” community, living in difficult conditions across the Giri River. Ever since Jaunsar and Babbar areas of Uttarakhand, which share boundaries with the Trans-Giri area, were granted the scheduled tribe status in 1967, the inhabitants of Trans-Giri have also been demanding for the same. But so far, their demands have fallen on deaf ears. “The Hatti community will now fight its own battle. It’s high time now. We will not be fooled by political leaders anymore. We will sit together in the panchayat and decide the future course of action,” said Pradeep Singhta, president, Hatti Vikas Manch. Explaining why tribal status is important for them, he said, “Joblessness is increasing day by day. The remoteness is making life hard for us. Youth of our area are being deprived of the benefits granted to tribals in Kinnaur.” Amin Chanda Kamal, president, Central Hatti Committee, said, “Resolutions passed in Khumblis will be sent to the Prime Minister’s office. Political leaders from both parties have failed to take up our cause effectively.” Matter pending with Centre, say state officialsIn 2016, the state government headed by then chief minister Virbhadra Singh moved a case to the Centre for granting tribal status to Trans-Giri region, Dodra Kwar in Rohru. In 2018, the ministry of tribal affairs wrote back to the state government saying that details provided in the ethnography report about the Hatti community were not “sufficient”. The government had written to the state to re-examine the proposal for inclusion of Hatti community in the list of Scheduled Tribes and had further recommended the government to conduct a full-fledged ethnographic study. “The Centre had sought certain clarifications, and we have replied them. The matter is now lying pending with the union government,” said Onkar Sharma, principal secretary, tribal development. Recently, BJP’s Himachal unit president Suresh Kashyap had met Union minister for rural development Arjun Munda over the demand. He had also met the Registrar General of India (RGI) Vivek Joshi in Delhi over the issue. Kashyap said, “The demand for tribal status for the Hatti community has been pending for long. The Transgiri area of Sirmaur, which is adjoining Jaunsar Babar of Uttarakhand, comprises about 144 panchayats in four blocks of Sirmaur and has a population of about 2.75 lakh. In 1967, the people of Jaunsar Babar area were declared tribal. But the Hatti community of Giripar region of Himachal was not declared as a tribal.” 
17-12-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab: MP Partap Bajwa calls for separate agriculture budget||Rajya Sabha member Partap Singh Bajwa on Friday urged Punjab chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi to introduce a separate budget for agriculture and incorporate crop diversification in the name of the ministry of agriculture and farmers’ welfare. In a letter to Channi, Bajwa, who is also the chairman of the Congress manifesto committee for the 2022 state polls, said the government should introduce a specialised and focused agricultural budget as the need to diversify from the paddy/wheat cycle was imperative to protect the future of every Punjabi. “It is time for Punjab to take the lead in showcasing a strong alternative model for agricultural development across India,” he wrote, referring to another letter he sent on August 14 to the then chief minister in this regard. He further recommended that the agriculture and farmers’ welfare ministry should be renamed as the ministry for agriculture, farmers’ welfare and crop diversification. “This change will highlight the serious policy shift of the government in tackling the present problems facing the agricultural sector in the state,” he said, calling it the right time to make these changes and start laying the groundwork for the “evergreen revolution”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjabmp-partap-bajwa-calls-for-separate-agriculture-budget-101639748397308.html
17-12-2021||Chandigarh||Katas Raj Temple visit: 87 Hindu pilgrims leave for Pakistan||An 87-member jatha (group) of Hindu pilgrims crossed over to Pakistan via Attari-Wagah joint checkpost on Friday to visit the ancient Katas Raj Temple where religious ceremonies are being held from December 18 to 19.Members of the jatha are from different states of India, said Shiv Partap Bajaj, president of the Kendrya Sanatan Dharam Sabha (KSDS), which organises the pilgrimage every year. The jatha will return on December 23.Bajaj said, “On December 18 and 19, Mahashiv Pujan, Purnima Utsav and other religious ceremonies will be held. The lighting of earthen lamps will also be held at night at the shrine complex. On December 20, the pilgrims will pay obeisance at Sri Krishna Temple in Lahore, besides visiting the sacred place of Maharaj Luv, son of Lord Rama, and other religious places in the city before returning.”“Unfavourable political developments between India and Pakistan and the Covid-19 outbreak cast shadow over the pilgrimagethe last three times. After Pakistan government assured adequate security arrangements for pilgrims and its Evacuee Trust Property Board (ETPB) extended cooperation, the pilgrimage was planned again and it was granted permission by the governments of both the countries,” said Bajaj.Under the Pakistan-India protocol on visits to religious shrines of 1974, a large number of Sikh and Hindu pilgrims from India visit Pakistan to observe religious festivals every year. A maximum of 200 Hindu pilgrims can be part of the trans-border pilgrimage.The Hindu pilgrims normally visit Katas Raj twice a year, once in February/March during the festival of Maha Shivratri and again in November/December.The Katas Raj Temple, also known as Qila Katas, is a complex of several temples connected to one another by walkways. It is situated in Chakwal district of Punjab province in Pakistan.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/katas-raj-temple-visit-87-hindu-pilgrims-leave-for-pakistan-101639747437136.html
17-12-2021||Mumbai||Navi Mumbai Municipal Corporation plans to develop 2 new arms of flyover to ease traffic congestion||In view of the increasing traffic congestion, the Navi Mumbai Municipal Corporation (NMMC) is planning to develop two new arms of a flyover that connects Koparkhairane with the MIDC area above the Thane-Belapur Road.With these new arms in place, motorists will be able to board the flyover directly from the Thane-Belapur Road and alight from it.After conducting multiple surveys, the officials from the engineering department prepared a detailed project report (DPR) that will soon be sent for approval to the civic body. They have estimated a budget of ₹44Cr for this work.The flyover was developed by CIDCO around two decades ago.Sanjay Khatal, executive engineer of NMMC said, “CIDCO had developed the flyover so that people from Koparkhairane (and its adjacent Ghansoli) can directly travel to the MIDC area above the Thane-Belapur Road. However, there is no provision for the vehicles on Thane-Belapur Road to go either to Koparkhairane or to MIDC at that junction. So, those vehicles have to travel some more distance to enter these places and that creates traffic congestion in the area. Therefore, we are planning to develop one arm on the right-hand side and the other arm on the left-hand side of the flyover.“By boarding the flyover from the right-hand side, the vehicles will go to Koparkhairane, and by boarding from the left-hand side they will go to the MIDC area. Thus, the new arms will reduce both travel time and traffic congestion in that area,” he further said.Manish Shirke, a 56-year-old activist from Koparkhairane, said, “A large number of people from Thane travel to their workplaces in Mahape and Shilphata (both in the MIDC area) daily. So, apart from the local residents of Navi Mumbai, all those people will be benefited by the proposed new arms.”
17-12-2021||Mumbai||Navi Mumbai Municipal Corporation to revamp football ground in Nerul||To provide football players participating in two international tournaments with a well-equipped ground for practice, the Navi Mumbai Municipal Corporation (NMMC) has undertaken a major revamp of Yashwantrao Chavan ground in Nerul.The officials from the NMMC sports department said that a few matches of the Women’s Asian Cup will be held at DY Patil Stadium in Nerul between January 20 and February 6, 2022. Likewise, a number of matches of the FIFA U-17 Women’s World Cup will be held at the same stadium in October 2022.A senior officer from the civic engineering department said, “The players of those tournaments will need a fine ground with good infrastructure for their routine practices. Therefore, we are now revamping this ground that already had a concrete compound wall with four-foot-tall steel nets above it. Now, at the behest of the authorities, we have increased the height of the steel nets up to eight feet. During the practice sessions, green sheets will be put on the nets so that people cannot watch it from outside.“We have made some seating arrangements (granite steps covered with roofs) and developed four changing rooms, two waiting lounges and two washrooms. The changing rooms will have a total of 24 lockers. We are also developing inter-locking pathways so that players can easily walk from the ground to the restrooms.”NMMC also has plans to develop a cricket pitch and a volleyball court at the other parts of the ground at a later stage.The officer said, “We are finishing the work related to the upcoming tournaments in the first phase. We will take up work on the cricket pitch and volleyball court in the second phase. The civic body has allocated a budget of ₹3.50Cr for the entire work.”Manoj Mahale, deputy municipal commissioner of NMMC (sports and cultural department), said, “We have taken the upcoming international tournaments as an opportunity to promote football in Navi Mumbai, specifically among the girls. Football is not a popular game among the students of civic schools here. The FIFA authorities recently trained our twelve coaches who will promote football among the students. The FIFA authorities have verbally assured us to train some of our students too.”
17-12-2021||Mumbai||Raigad police begin campaign to educate citizens about cyber frauds||Raigad police has started ‘cyber sakshar surakshit gaav’ (cyber literate safe village) campaign to educate everyone in rural areas about cyber frauds.Since 2017, Raigad has reported cyber fraud of ₹13.36Cr following which the Deputy Superintendent of Raigad Police, Ashok Dudhe, initiated the campaign to educate people from the rural areas about cyber frauds.“Every year, there are around 60 to 70 cases and around 150 to 200 applications related to cybercrime. The cyber fraud reported every year is much more than what is lost in house breaks and robbery. And, why is this amount lost in the cybercrime? This is because the victim himself gives away the OTP or clicks something that he should not be clicking. This can be avoided if the person has knowledge on how cybercrime happens. For that, we have started the campaign,” Dudhe said.The campaign was started with Jhirad village under the jurisdiction of Mandwa coastal police and was concluded by Konkan IG, Sanjay Mohite, this week.“Now, Jhirad has become the first cyber-literate and cyber-safe village of Raigad and soon other villages will follow,” Dudhe said.Rajiv Patil, inspector from Mandwa coastal police station, has been conducting awareness campaigns in the area for a few weeks by giving lectures to the village students, holding rallies, street plays and community meetings to create awareness among the citizens.“During the campaign, people are told about various modus operandi of the cyber criminals and how they approach citizens. We tell them about the preventive measures that one should take and what information that they can give to the caller and what they should not,” Dudhe added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/raigad-police-begin-campaign-to-educate-citizens-about-cyber-frauds-101639746177721.html
17-12-2021||Mumbai||Kalyan Dombivli Municipal Corporation claims to be ready for third wave of Covid with 3 times oxygen supply facility||Ahead of the expected third wave of Covid pandemic and with the cases of Omicron variant reported, the Kalyan-Dombivli Municipal Corporation (KDMC) has claimed that it is ready with three times the oxygen supply facility compared to the previous waves of the pandemic.At present, more than 100 metric tons of oxygen supply plants are ready for use, KDMC has claimed, while at the beginning of the pandemic, the oxygen supply facility available with the KDMC was just 18 metric tons.“We have four new liquid medical oxygen plants ready and three pressure swing adsorption plants ready, and can be used any time if required while the other plants are also being prepared. With all of these, we will have 11 plants that will be sufficient for the civic body if there is a major requirement of oxygen during the surge in Covid cases,” said Sudhakar Jagtap, additional commissioner, KDMC.In total, there will be six liquid oxygen plants and five PSA oxygen plants ready with the KDMC. The liquid oxygen plants are being set up at Savlaram Krida Sankul in Dombivli, Art Gallery in Kalyan and Vibha Company in Dombivli MIDC. The PSA oxygen plants are at Rukminibai Hospital in Kalyan (W), Fish market at Vitthalwadi in Kalyan (E), Lal Chowki in Kalyan (W), Savlaram Krida Sankul in Dombivli and Shastri Nagar Hospital in Dombivli.“Once all the 11 plants are ready, we will have at least 180 metric tons of oxygen available with us and don’t have to worry about shortage during the pandemic,” said Jagtap. Along with the oxygen plants, the civic body has also made arrangements for the bed facility, which is on a standby at present. The civic body has increased the bed capacity from 6,000 beds in April month during the second wave to 8,000-plus beds now including both civic and private hospitals.“The beds are kept on standby at present. In case there is a surge, these beds can be used any time. Both civic and private hospitals have been kept ready for this. We have beds available in all the categories including oxygen beds and ventilators, “said Sameer Sarvankar, in-charge officer, KDMC.“The newly-added 540 beds at Vibha Mechano Company in Dombivli itself is a huge facility,” added Sarvankar.
17-12-2021||Mumbai||Kalyan Dombivli Municipal Corporation seeks water from Kushiwali dam in Ambernath||The Kalyan-Dombivli Municipal Corporation (KDMC) has initiated the planning for the water requirements for the future.The KDMC chief, Vijay Suryavanshi, has written to the principal secretary of water resource department, Mantralay, Mumbai, asking to be allowed to take water from the upcoming Kushiwali dam in Ambernath taluka, considering the requirement for the population of KDMC limits.As per the civic body, if it is allowed a quota for taking water from the dam, it will be able to solve the major water woes in 27 villages that were included in the KDMC in June 2015.Presently, the KDMC has a quota of 320MLD of water from Ulhas River and 40MLD from Kalu River. In total, 360MLD of water is taken from these rivers and supplied to the KDMC limits.Meanwhile, 55MLD of water is also provided by the Maharashtra Industrial Development Corporation (MIDC) to the 27 villages. In total, 415MLD of water is available for the KDMC limits for an estimated population of around 21 lakh. The civic body says that this is not sufficient for its population.“Considering the estimated increase in the population and also the villages being a part of the civic body, there is a need to increase the water sources for KDMC in the coming years. If the government allows us water from the upcoming Kushiwali dam, it will be very helpful to deal with the water requirements in the future,” said Pramod More, executive engineer, water department, KDMC.The civic body has also urged to divert the quota of 140MLD water by MIDC for NMMC from Ulhas river to KDMC. A decision was taken in a meeting of water resource minister and senior officials in 2009 to divert this quota to KDMC. However, it was not done.“This diversion is not yet implemented for which we have asked the department to help implement it in the coming days,” added More. In the letter, the civic chief has also asked for funds to take up the work at dams like Pesheer and Kondane in Raigad district and have an independent water source in the future from these resources.
17-12-2021||Bangalore||‘To all women of Karnataka…’: Congress’ DK Shivakumar issues apology over MLA’s rape remark||Congress’ Karnataka unit president DK Shivakumar on Friday apologised to women about the remarks made by one of his party legislators KR Ramesh Kumar about rape amid an ongoing furore over the incident inside the state assembly.Shivakumar promised that he would never let such similar remarks be made again.“As the President of the Karnataka Pradesh Congress Committee, I am deeply saddened that such words were uttered by a Congress MLA. To all the women of Karnataka, I am sorry and I will ensure words like these are never repeated,” Shivakumar said in a tweet.As the President of the Karnataka Pradesh Congress Committee, I am deeply saddened that such words were uttered by a Congress MLA. To all the women of Karnataka, I am sorry and I will ensure words like these are never repeated. https://t.co/xtvdoS1NpKHe also said that the remarks made by the MLA were against the Congress’ values. “The Congress party condemns the words spoken by one of our own legislators in the Karnataka assembly. The insensitive remarks against women are contrary to the values of gender equality the Congress party champions,” he said.The senior Congress leader said men in politics should take the incident as a “sign” and need to work towards shedding such regressive views on women.“While we note that the legislator has tendered an apology, the incident in the assembly is a sign that all of us men in politics need to do better to shed our inherent regressive attitudes towards women,” he added.Also read | Suspend him before talking about women empowerment: Smriti Irani to Congress over Karnataka MLA’s rape remarksThe apologies from the state Congress chief came amidst the growing backlash the party has been receiving after a video of the crass comments by Ramesh Kumar garnered widespread attention on social media. Several political leaders from other parties and the public have criticised the MLA for his remarks.Union minister for women and child development Smriti Irani and National Commission for Women (NCW) chairperson Rekha Sharma were among those who have called out the minister for his words.Irani said the comments were “shameful” and also demanded the Congress to suspend the MLA. The NCW chief also made a similar comment and said political parties should not field such candidates and people should not vote for them.On its part, the Congress party went into damage control mode after the flak and has tried to distance itself from the controversial statements. Congress general secretary Randeep Singh Surjewala said that the party does not approve of such “insensitive banter” and noted that the speaker and senior legislators should refrain from “such unacceptable behaviour”.Another senior Congress leader Mallikarjun Kharge said an apology was tendered by the MLA and the matter should not be “dragged”. He also conceded that the MLA was himself a two-time speaker and should not have made such remarks.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/to-all-women-of-karnataka-congress-dk-shivakumar-issues-apology-over-mla-s-rape-remark-101639740849062.html
17-12-2021||Gurugram||Gurugram namaz row: Contempt plea against top officials||A former Rajya Sabha member has approached the Supreme Court with a petition to initiate contempt proceedings against the Haryana chief secretary and the state’s director general of police over the recent row involving problems faced by Muslims in offering namaz at public spaces in Gurugram.The petition filed by Mohammad Adeeb, a resident of Gurugram, pointed out that a few persons have been attempting to spread hatred and communal disharmony against Muslims following which they feel threatened and have addressed several complaints to the police, which have gone unanswered. Lately, truckloads of persons are approaching namaz sites and raising communally divisive slogans and spewing hatred against the religious community through social media posts, the petition said.“Such hateful campaign, communally divisive incidents and rampant dissemination of propaganda through use of social media, is easily identifiable and is being perpetrated by a limited number of unruly members of the society who are continuously giving effect to their nefarious plans to further hatred and communal disharmony,” the petition said.The petition filed through advocate Fuzail Ahmad Ayyubi referred to the July 2018 decision passed by the Supreme Court directing police and state authorities to take both preventive and remedial steps to prevent incidents of hate crimes, mob lynching and communal violence.“The continuous inaction, apathy of the state machinery and failure of the local law enforcement agencies and administration to prevent such incidents or to find a solution to the crises before it spirals into a monstrosity, is precisely what had been indicated by this court in Tehseen S Poonawalla case (of 2018) and is thus clearly a contempt of this court’s direction,” the petition said. The petition has named chief secretary Sanjeev Kaushal and DGP PK Agrawal as contemnors.The petition said Muslims of Gurugram have been performing Friday prayers peacefully and without causing any disturbance at 37 open spaces for lack of places of worship. This was being done after approval from the relevant government authorities, including municipal and police functionaries. “In the recent months, there has been a constant rise in incidents revolving around the said Friday prayers at the behest of certain identifiable hooligans, with no local support, who portray themselves falsely in the name of religion and seek to create an atmosphere of hatred and prejudice against one community across the city,” the contempt petition said.“The perpetrators are well-known to the respondents/alleged contemnors herein, who have continuously failed to take any effective measures and have rather been bystanders in the entire controversy,” the former independent member from the Rajya Sabha said.He pointed out that Gurugram is an industrial township where persons of different faiths and religions come to work and such provocative actions are witnessed during working hours when people from the neighbouring areas of Delhi and Uttar Pradesh gather.The Jamait Ulama-e-Hind made complaints to the police, followed by local residents of all faiths, to take note of the growing hate campaign at the behest of a few persons aimed at singling out one community and creating an atmosphere of hatred and lawlessness. “By October 29, the local police, instead of taking any action against such communally divisive incidents, chose to change the pre-approved locations of Friday prayers,” the petition stated, adding that the intensity of hooliganism has increased over the past months every Friday as people are arriving in trucks, in a manner of pre-planned conspiracy to create hateful and communally divisive atmosphere at the places where namaz is offered.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/gurugram-namaz-row-contempt-plea-against-top-officials-101639741195931.html
17-12-2021||Mumbai||CIDCO to launch 5,000 housing flats as New Year offer in 5 prime locations in Navi Mumbai||In a New Year launch, CIDCO will offer a housing scheme with 5,000 flats. The offer in January 2022 is under its vision of ‘Home for all’ and will cater to all sections of the society.The tenements will be located at five prime locations of Navi Mumbai in Ghansoli, Dronagiri, Kharghar, Kalamboli and Taloja, providing the residents with a host of amenities and better connectivity in the foreseeable future. The projects are PMAY approved and RERA registered.Participating beneficiaries of EWS category are entitled to get central assistance of ₹1.5L and state assistance of ₹1L, whereas LIG beneficiaries can avail benefit of loan subsidy up to ₹2.67L.CIDCO VC & MD, Sanjay Mukherjee, said, “These tenements with great infrastructure and world-class amenities at affordable rates will make the common man’s dream come true. As a part of the Union and State government initiative, CIDCO has always been on the mark to provide affordable housing for EWS & LIG categories. There would be homes for the general category too.“These buildings are built with earthquake resistant design with state-of-the-art architecture like vitrified, ceramic flooring, granite kitchen top, polynorm door frame, anodized aluminium sliding windows, external elastomeric acrylic paint and concealed copper wiring. CIDCO is also taking the responsibility of waterproofing the terrace, water tank, W/C bath, etc. for 10 years. Comprehensive maintenance of five years covers maintenance of lifts, electrical equipment, mechanical works, daily cleaning, garbage collection, garden maintenance.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/cidco-to-launch-5-000-housing-flats-as-new-year-offer-in-5-prime-locations-in-navi-mumbai-101639740116494.html
17-12-2021||Lucknow||Uttar Pradesh Election 2022: Widows, elderly, divyangjans in UP to get double pension, announces CM Adityanath||Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath on Thursday announced a huge relief for destitute women, aged and differently-abled people and doubled their pension amounts in the latest poll strategy ahead of the crucial assembly elections.Speaking at the state legislative assembly, Adityanath said that his government will now provide ₹1,000 as pension every month to destitute women, aged and differently-abled people, instead of ₹500 which was given earlier.Additionally, labourers will now get a maintenance allowance of ₹500 monthly for the next four months and pension for leprosy-affected people will be ₹3,000 per month, he said after the tabling of the supplementary budget.Without taking names, Adityanath took a jibe at Samajwadi Party chief Akhilesh Yadav saying, "Our government gives respect to the elderly and if the father becomes old, he is not removed from the post." He was referring to the bitter feud that caused Akhilesh Yadav snatching the mantle of the party president from his father Mulayam Singh Yadav in 2017.Here are the benefits announced:||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/uttar-pradesh-election-2022-widows-elderly-divyangjans-in-up-to-get-double-pension-announces-cm-adityanath-101639738835597.html
17-12-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab reels under cold wave, fog throws traffic out of gear||Cold wave conditions prevailed in Punjab on Friday as fog engulfed Amritsar and its surrounding areas in the Majha region besides Bathinda and its adjoining districts in the Malwa region on Friday, bringing down the mercury. Also read: Mercury dips after light snowfall in higher reaches of HimachalThe minimum temperature in Bathinda dipped to 3.4 degrees Celsius, while Amritsar recorded a low of 6 degrees Celsius. Both cities witnessed dense fog in the morning, hampering road and rail traffic due to poor visibility. There was no sunshine in the forenoon and the temperature could not exceed 13 degrees Celsius even after half the day passed. Due to the chilly weather, schools have delayed opening timings. People were seen trying to stay warm by sitting around bonfires on the roadside, while many preferred not to venture out of their homes. Weather brings cheer for farmers Pargat Singh, a farmer from Loharka village near Amritsar, said the cold weather is good for Rabi crops, including wheat, as it will enhance the quality of the grain. Farm experts agree that the low temperature is ideal for wheat crop. According to Punjab Agricultural University’s observatory at the Bathinda-based regional research centre, various districts of the state will witness severe cold and dense fog till Tuesday. “Moderate to dense fog likely at isolated places this week pan Punjab. It is estimated that gradual fall in minimum temperatures may be 2-3 degree Celsius during the next four days in the state,” said Raj Kumar, an agrometeorology scientist at PAU.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-reels-under-cold-wave-fog-throws-traffic-out-of-gear-101639739156862.html
17-12-2021||Delhi||Pollution: Delhi-NCR schools allowed to reopen in phases||The Commission for Air Quality Management has allowed the reopening of schools in Delhi-NCR in a phased manner. The decision was announced on Friday, a day after the commission submitted its affidavit on its action against pollution to the Supreme Court. After getting the go-ahead from the commission, the Delhi government announced that physical classes for class 6 onwards will resume from December 18. With the pollution level gradually coming under control from what it was when the Supreme Court termed the situation as an emergency, several restrictions have been allowed by the commission over the past week.“The representations put forth by various project proponents and associations in the building and construction/ demolition sector, as also by the association of schools/educational institutions are under active examination and consideration by the commission and a decision on these would also be taken soon on or before December 17, based on the impact of the relaxations given above,” the CAQM’s affidavit stated.Physical classes in Delhi schools were suspended for the most part of November because of pollution. After the Delhi government decided to resume classes from November 29, the Supreme Court took note that while the government allowed work-from-home for office-goers, it reopened schools exposing children to the hazards of pollution.After being rapped by the apex court, the Delhi government again suspended physical classes on December 2. The commission expanded the order and asked all schools in the NCR to suspend physical classes. The Supreme Court, however, clarified that it did not ask for shutting schools; it merely asked for the justification for reopening schools.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/pollution-delhi-schools-allowed-to-open-in-phases-101639738618422.html
17-12-2021||Chandigarh||Mercury dips after light snowfall in higher reaches of Himachal||Cold wave conditions intensified in Himachal Pradesh on Friday after fresh snowfall in the higher reaches of the state sent the mercury plummeting by several degrees. Also read: SC allows Himachal to divert forest land for 433 projectsBharmour in Chamba district got 5cm of snowfall and Kufri near Shimla got 1cm of snow, meteorological centre head Surender Paul said. Kothi in Kullu besides Keylong and Gondla received trace snowfall, too. State capital Shimla, its suburb Sanjauli and the hill resort of Narkanda experienced snow grains. The Dhauladhars wore a white mantle. Traffic through Atal Tunnel restricted Traffic towards Lahaul through Atal Tunnel at Rohtang has been restricted after a snow-storm on its North Portal on Thursday evening. Lahaul-Spiti superintendent of police (SP) Manav Verma said only local vehicles, tourist cars and taxis with four-wheel drive are being allowed through the tunnel. The vehicles going from Lahaul towards Pangi are also allowed. “Tourist vehicles are not allowed beyond Sissu, a hamlet near the North Portal,” he said, adding “People should avoid unnecessary travel and in case of emergency contact the district disaster control room phone number, 9459461355, and police control room number 8988092298.” He said that Atal Tunnel will remain closed for traffic movement on Monday and Thursday from 7am to 9.30am for maintenance from December 20. The Kullu police have restricted the movement of tourist vehicles beyond Kothi due to bad weather. In the middle and lower hills, the weather was largely cloudy. Dharamshala received light rain in the afternoon, while the visibility dropped below 50 metres in Bilaspur. Sub-zero temperatures across state Keylong, the administrative headquarters of tribal Lahaul-Spiti district, was the coldest place in the state with the night temperature dipping to minus 8°Celsius. Kalpa in Kinnaur registered a low of -4.4, state capital Shimla -0.2°C, and Dalhousie -2.8°Celsius. Kufri was cold at -2°Celsius and Manali 0.6°Celsius. Palampur and Dharamshala recorded a low of 2°Celsius and 2.2°Celsius, respectively. The average minimum temperatures were 2-3°Celsius below normal in the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/mercury-dips-after-light-snowfall-in-higher-reaches-of-himachal-101639738196070.html
17-12-2021||Pune||Global Village Idiot: Pune awaits development of megacity airport ecosystem||In 2015, Airbus had published a forecast which projected that there would be 91 megacities in the world by 2034. In 2018, a United Nations report had listed 33 megacities in the world at that time. Six of the 33 are in India (Delhi, Mumbai, Kolkata, Bengaluru, Chennai and Hyderabad). Given the population’s figures, it is the greater metropolitan area that was considered in each of these cases. While definitions vary, a megacity is generally defined as an urban agglomeration with a minimum population of 10 million people.Pune city by itself clocks in at 3.99 million in 2020 (official 2011 census 3.2 million). The important metric is that it is the second-largest city in Maharashtra, after Mumbai, and the ninth-largest city in India. If we consider the Pune metropolitan area, then Pune metro has a population of over five million and it is the seventh-largest metro in India. If we consider the Pune district, the population estimate rises to about 10.7 million in 2020.Whichever population metric we take, Pune’s planning and design should have already started preparing for megacity capacity in the near future. Why? Because all megacities are not developed or progressive. Some are just a whole lot of population. What differentiates a progressive, developing megacity from one with millions of people? Vision and planning.The current Bangalore International Airport is a good example of an airport that was built for future capacity with an innovative design approach keeping in mind continuously evolving global requirements. The current airport opened in 2008, replacing the earlier smaller airport. In the early 2010s, Bengaluru attained megacity status, and its flights grew 25-fold. Part of this was enabled by its indigenous technology industry that was exporting products and services to the world. In 2019, the airport in Bengaluru handled a peak of 33.6 million passengers. In the same year, Pune handled a little over eight million, which is a good volume for a growing metro area.Pune’s situation is, of course, different, since India’s financial capital (also Maharashtra state capital) Mumbai is right next door with its port and international airport. With the state government having cleared the decks for a second international airport in Navi Mumbai, I wonder how serious state and city planners will be when it comes to developing Pune with international connectivity and as a regional hub. As a business traveller, I have suffered a decade and a half of having to waste time, money and efficiency travelling to Mumbai (or Delhi or Bengaluru) for domestic and international flights.From various reports, one thing that seems to stand out is that Gross domestic product (GDP) will be the key driver for the growth of megacities (beyond aspiration, infrastructure and growth requirements). If we consider Maharashtra as a whole, it has an estimated population of 123 million as of 2020 with a GDP of 310 billion USD. And it has one large-hub international airport in Mumbai, and two small (tiny) international airports (Pune and Nagpur have less than five international destinations between them). Compare this with New Jersey, a state in the USA with a 9.3 million population, GDP of 634 billion USD. New Jersey has three passenger airports, two of which are international, 13 reliever airports and eight general aviation airports (there are several other military and other airports). Or New York state which has a population of more than 20 million (1.7 trillion USD GDP) and is served by 16 primary passenger airports of which 11 are international airports. New York state also has 16 reliever airports and more than 20 general aviation airports.This is not a fair comparison (well-developed versus developing country), but it is meant to provide a perspective on how states and their cities have to consider population growth and financial growth in relation to infrastructure planning. Pune has for long been waiting in the aisles of infrastructure development. National, regional and international business houses have invested in the city and the district and there is a steady flow of talent thanks to the robust education industry.A lot will depend on how many startups and unicorns and business hubs Pune manages to grow in the next decade. This means we have to wait and see if Pune develops holistically enough on financial parameters or just grows in terms of population. More than anything else, Pune needs a set of political guardians, so that there is a public-government will to develop the city to its potential. The political guardians are crucial so that the local interests don’t get overlooked because of the interests of other evolving (and competing) cities or metro regions.Pune also needs an airline or two or three to adopt it as a true home base for a sense of pride to emerge in the running of the airport. Like Southwest adopted Dallas-Love Field and Chicago-Midway in the USA. Like Indigo made Bengaluru one of its hubs. Like Hong Kong is the main hub for Cathay Pacific Airways, just as Delta Airlines has Atlanta airport and so on.Pune is not an aviation hub nor does it have an aviation culture but it is a business and education centre as also an information technology powerhouse. If it has to take its place in the emerging national and global map, it has to be passionate about connecting to the world and firmly asking for its due infrastructure.Sanjay Mukherjee, author, learning-tech designer and management consultant, is founder of Mountain Walker and chief strategy advisor, Peak Pacific. He can be reached @ thebengali@icloud.com||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/global-village-idiot-pune-awaits-development-of-megacity-airport-ecosystem-101639737839142.html
17-12-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra exam commissioner arrested in paper leak case||Pune City Police have arrested Maharashtra State Examination Council Commissioner Tukaram Supe in connection with Teacher Eligibility Test (TET) paper leak case.The cyber police station Shivaji Nagar summoned Supe for questioning on Thursday following which he was arrested late at night. Supe is accused of taking money for leaking the paper to some candidate.Maharashtra government cancelled all the tests after irregularities in the Maharashtra Housing and Regional Development Authority (MHADA) exams came to light.Police previously arrested six people in the matter, including Dr Pritish Deshmukh, director of GA Software Technologies Pvt Ltd, which was given the contract of conducting recruitment exams for various departments.During the investigation of Deshmukh’s house, the police found TET admit cards. Also, hall tickets of some ineligible students were seized. Therefore, there was a suspicion of malpractice in the TET examination and the investigation was initiated accordingly. After this, Pune police called Supe for questioning and placed him under arrest, an investigator said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-exam-commissioner-arrested-in-paper-leak-case-101639737536916.html
17-12-2021||Chandigarh||SC allows Himachal to divert forest land for 433 projects||The Supreme Court has allowed the Himachal Pradesh government to divert forest land for non-forest projects, including the construction of 63 roads, 13 power projects and an airport, a state government spokesperson said. Also read: ‘There could have been some wrong decisions but…’: Amit Shah at FICCI meetIn its orders on December 9 and 14, the apex court gave the approval under the Forest Conservation Act (FCA) and the Scheduled Tribes and Other Traditional Forest Dwellers (Recognition of Forest Rights) Act (FRA) for projects appended with interlocutory applications, the spokesperson said. The court had earlier restrained the government from diverting forest land to non-forest projects in a restraint order in March 2019 passed on a writ petition of 1995. The spokesperson said that 103 projects appended with the interlocutory applications include 63 roads, 13 power projects, an airport, three grain and vegetable markets, four college buildings, a hospital, four bus stands, a market yard, two railways lines, a warehouse for storing EVMs, a weather radar, a ropeway, a helipad, two mining projects, a parking, two hot-mix plants, a police post and a National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) centre. He said that projects under FRA cases include 13 community centres, 268 roads projects, 11 schools, 19 drinking water supply schemes and water pipelines, five minor irrigation canal or rain water harvesting structures, 10 health institutions, three skill upgrade and vocational training centres besides a fair price shop.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/sc-allows-himachal-to-divert-forest-land-for-433-projects-101639736936983.html
17-12-2021||Bangalore||‘Let’s not drag the matter': Congress leader Kharge on party MLA's ‘rape’ remark||Amid outrage over Karnataka Congress MLA Ramesh Kumar's remark on rape, party veteran Mallikarjun Kharge said on Friday that since the former has apologised, the matter should not be dragged further.Also Read | Senior Congress leader and former Karnataka speaker makes crass comment on rape in winter session“He shouldn't have said this, he's an experienced politician, a 2-time speaker but there is no appreciation for whatever he said about women. Since he has apologised, let's not drag the matter,” said Kharge, the leader of Opposition in Rajya Sabha and a Congress stalwart from the southern state, according to news agency ANI. He shouldn't have said this, he's an experienced politician, a 2-time speaker but there is no appreciation for whatever he said about women. Since he has apologised, let's not drag the matter: Mallikarjun Kharge, LoP in RS on Karnataka Congress MLA KR Ramesh Kumar's 'rape' remark pic.twitter.com/AYVRzLFx5VKumar, himself a senior Congress politician in Karnataka, made the comment on Thursday during the ongoing winter session of the state assembly in Belagavi, about 505 kms from the capital, Bengaluru. Also Read | 'Really disgusting': NCW slams Cong MLA Ramesh Kumar's ‘rape’ remark“There is a saying that if rape is inevitable, lie down and enjoy it. That's exactly the situation into which you are,” he said on the floor of the House, while interacting with the speaker, Vishweshar Hegde Kaderi.  After his comment stoked a controversy, Kumar apologised, tweeting in his defence that it was an ‘off the cuff remark.’ He posted: “I would like to express my sincere apologies to everyone for the indifferent and negligent comment I made in today's Assembly about ”Rape!". My intention was not trivialise or make light of the heinous crime. I will chose my words carefully henceforth!"Also Read | 'Off the cuff remark': Karnataka Congress MLA apologises for ‘when rape is inevitable' commentEarlier today, Randeep Singh Surjewala, the Congress' chief national spokesperson, denounced the ‘exchange of highly objectionable and insensitive banter between the speaker and the senior MLA.’ Surjewala shared on Twitter that the ‘speaker as custodian, and senior legislators are expected to be role models and should desist from such unacceptable behaviour.’||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/lets-not-drag-the-matter-congress-leader-kharge-on-party-mla-s-rape-remark-101639731395127.html
17-12-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab elections: Sidhu promises urban job scheme if Congress returns to power||Punjab Congress president Navjot Singh Sidhu on Friday promised to launch an Urban Employment Guarantee Mission to give the right to employment to urban labour if his party retains power in the upcoming state elections. Also read: Ready to provide additional Rafale jets to India: FranceSidhu said this mission would be started on the lines of the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme (MGNREGS), a centrally sponsored scheme, to give employment to the urban poor, particularly unskilled labour, in towns and cities of the state. “Urban poverty is double the rural poverty in the state. Besides giving right to employment, we will also fix the daily wage and regulate work hours,” he said at a press conference at the Punjab Congress Bhawan, the state headquarters of the party. Calling his “revolutionary” idea as the USP (unique selling proposition) of his “Punjab model” of governance, the state Congress chief said this idea would change the lives of the urban poor. He hit out at the state government for not registering the urban labour, including construction workers, and giving full benefits of MNREGA to the rural poor. “I interacted with daily wagers at Madanpura Chowk in Mohali in the morning. They told me that only 1% of them were registered for benefits under various schemes and government officials asked for money to register them,” he said. He said the government was collecting construction cess but check how many construction workers were registered. He also raised questions over the minimum wages for workers, claiming these were lower in the state as compared to neighbouring Haryana.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-elections-sidhu-promises-urban-job-scheme-if-congress-returns-to-power-101639725052601.html
17-12-2021||Delhi||India’s Omicron tally nears 100 as Delhi, Telangana record fresh cases||India’s Omicron count came close to 100 (99 to be exact) on Friday after 10 fresh cases of the new variant of the coronavirus were reported from national capital Delhi. The new cases in Delhi were confirmed by health minister Satyendar Jain.“10 new cases of Omicron variant have been reported in Delhi, taking the total number of cases of the variant here to 20. A total of 10 people, out of these 20, have been discharged,” Jain was quoted as saying by news agency ANI.Besides Delhi, two fresh cases were reported in Telangana, taking the state's cumulative tally to eight.On Thursday, 14 new cases of Omicron were added to the nationwide tally. Out of these, Karnataka reported five new cases of the heavily mutated variant, while Delhi and Telangana registered four such new infections, and Gujarat saw a single case.This is the second consecutive day that Delhi has recorded an increase in its Omicron tally.So far, 11 states and union territories have reported Omicron infections - Maharashtra has seen 32 such cases, Rajasthan has reported 17, Delhi now has 20, Karnataka has seen eight infections, Gujarat and Kerala both have reported five, Telangana ei, and one case each has been reported in West Bengal, Andhra Pradesh, Chandigarh and Tamil Nadu.India has been recording Omicron cases for four days in a row. On Tuesday and Wednesday too, there were 12 new Omicron infections detected across the country.India’s first batch of Omicron cases was reported from Bengaluru on December 2 when two people - a 66-year-old and a 46-year-old male - tested positive for the variant.The fast-spreading strain has worried markets too, with Sensex slumping over 300 points in early trade in Friday.There are three major headwinds to the market now - the Omicron variant, relentless selling by FIIs and hawkish central banks, according to VK Vijayakumar, chief investment strategist at Geojit Financial Services.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/10-new-omicron-cases-recorded-in-delhi-india-s-tally-nears-100mark-101639723184896.html
17-12-2021||Bangalore||No reason to fear, says Karnataka man who recovered from Omicron||Bengaluru: A 34-year-old man from Bengaluru, who was the first person to recover from the Omicron variant of the coronavirus in Karnataka, on Thursday released a video sharing his experiences with the new variant. Reassuring people that the variant doesn’t have severe symptoms, he said he is “absolutely fine”. “There is no reason to fear the Omicron variant. The symptoms are mild, and I have seen this in South Africa as well. There was no reason for any serious hospitalisation. Even for me, there was no need for hospitalisation. If we are careful, wear masks and take the vaccination, we will be fine,” he said in the short video. “I was infected with Delta virus before and now I can share the experience of being afflicted with the Omicron variant,” he said in the video. “I was infected with coronavirus during the second wave. I had two doses of Covid vaccination. Despite this, I tested positive for the Omicron variant. I suffered much more when I was infected with Delta virus than the Omicron variant,” he said. Karnataka reported the third case of the Omicron virus on Sunday.The 34-year-old had arrived from South Africa on December 1. “I went to South Africa in the last week of November. I tested negative in RT-PCR tests at the Kempegowda International Airport (KIAL) in Bengaluru. But, on the third day of my isolation, itching in my throat and cough symptoms developed. I got the RT-PCR test done again at a private lab; the results confirmed the Covid-19 virus. Later, the samples were sent for genome sequencing by the civic agency, in which an Omicron variant was found,” he said in the video. He said that since the information was available to him, he did not panic and as per protocol, he got admitted to the designated hospital. “I isolated myself on arrival from South Africa and my family members didn’t catch the virus. Those who come from abroad should maintain distance and follow quarantine guidelines. If symptoms crop up, without wasting time and negligence, they should get tested and inform health authorities. If this is done, we can prevent the infection from spreading to neighbours and people around,” he said in the video. He was discharged from a designated hospital in Bengaluru on Tuesday, making him the first patient to recover from the Omicron variant in the state. Five primary contacts and 15 secondary contacts of the man were traced, and they all tested negative for Covid-19. Explaining his time in hospital, he said the treatment given to him was similar to his first infection. “The symptoms of throat itching, cough and tiredness were more severe the first time. This time there was no necessity for additional treatment… There is no separate treatment as such for the Omicron variant. Vitamin-C tablets and antibiotics were given. Since there was no tiredness and symptoms were too mild, I worked from the hospital ward for a week,” he said. Meanwhile, the 46-year-old government doctor, the second patient who had tested positive for Omicron without any travel history, has been discharged from hospital along with his family on Wednesday. They have been advised to home quarantine for a week. The doctor, Karnataka’s second Omicron case, along with his wife and two daughters were under treatment for 14 days at the hospital. Doctors said he tested negative twice in a gap of 24 hours. He had developed secondary infections due to low immunity and had continued to test positive till recently.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/no-reason-to-fear-says-karnataka-man-who-recovered-from-omicron-101639723132725.html
17-12-2021||Other||Cold wave sweeps parts of Kashmir valley||After light snowfall in the upper reaches on Thursday, a cold wave swept different parts of the Valley with Srinagar recording minus 3.8 degrees Celcius during the night.On Thursday higher reaches of Kashmir received light snowfall, due to which, the night temperature increased in the ski resort of Gulmarg as it recorded minus 8.6 degrees Celcius. A day earlier, mercury plunged to minus 10 degrees Celsius - the coldest night of the winter at the resort that has many tourists enjoying snow there. Gulmarg had received 0.5 cm of snow, while it snowed 0.3 cm in Pahalgam at another tourist resort.The Jammu and Kashmir MeT department said the nights continued to record sub-zero temperatures in Kashmir for the 13th day. Srinagar recorded a minimum temperature of -3.8 degrees Celsius. In south Kashmir, the mountain resort of Pahalgam recorded a night temperature of -5.6°C. It was -4.5°C in Konibal, -4.4°C in Kupwara, and -3.2°C in Qazigund.In the Union territory of Ladakh, Dras recorded bone-chilling -18.1°C while it was –12.1°C in Leh during the night.The harsh 40-day winter period of the Kashmir valley — Chillai Kalan — starts from December 21. There is a forecast of snowfall on Christmas Eve.The MeT office said that widespread moderate-to-heavy snowfall is most likely during December 23 and 25.Kashmir’s winter pans out in three stages starting with a 40-day intense period from December 21 (locally called Chillai Kalan) followed by 20 more days which are less intense (called Chillai Khurd) and lastly 10 days of mild cold (Chille Bache).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/cold-wave-sweeps-different-parts-of-kashmir-valley-101639722174283.html
17-12-2021||Pune||Maharashtra TET: State council commissioner arrested over alleged paper leak||Police have arrested the commissioner of Maharashtra State Council Of Examination (MSEC) in connection with the alleged malpractices in the Teachers' Eligibility Test (TET), a senior official said on Friday. Tukaram Supe, the commissioner of MSCE, was arrested by the cyber cell of Pune police following his questioning in the alleged malpractices in the TET examination, city police commissioner Amitabh Gupta said. The alleged malpractice in the TET came to the light during the investigation of a paper leak in the Maharashtra Housing and Area Development Authority (MHADA) examination, in which six people have already been arrested.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/maharashtra-tet-state-council-commissioner-arrested-over-alleged-paper-leak-101639717264946.html
17-12-2021||Bangalore||Will take measures to provide stable market, for weavers' products: K'taka CM||Karnataka chief minister Basavaraj Bommai on Thursday said the state government would take all the necessary measures to provide a stable market and price for weavers' products.Speaking at the event, Bommai, said, "Various government departments would be asked to procure their need for clothes and sarees from the weavers in accordance with the capacity of the weavers. Specific quantum would be fixed for this. Marketing facilities on digital platforms too would be provided for handloom products through Karnataka Handloom Development Corporation."The minister also said that a positive response soon on subsidy for professional weavers on the lines of Tribal Sub Plan in consultation with the finance department.The chief minister also said, "The state government is mulling to impose a small cess on business units to provide various welfare schemes for weavers on the lines of Construction Workers Welfare Board."Bommai instructed the Revenue department officials to take action on converting unauthorized habitations into Revenue villages or colonies. He instructed the Pollution Control Board officials to take action to avoid harassment of weavers.The chief minister agreed to the demand of providing scholarships for students from weaver's families, medical facilities for weavers, and payment of a solarium of ₹5 lakh for families of that weaver who committed suicide during the Covid-19 lockdown.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/will-take-measures-to-provide-stable-market-for-weavers-products-k-taka-cm-101639718229140.html
17-12-2021||Patna||Patna schoolboy stabbed to death over alleged affair||An intermediate student, Sadaf Ahmed (18), was allegedly stabbed to death over an alleged affair near Panchmukhi temple under Buddha Colony police station on Thursday, officials said.Soon, the police came into action and arrested two boys who are said to be the students of AN College. The girl’s current boyfriend was taken into custody. Police said that the incident took place when two accused, aged around 18 years to 20 years, clashed with Sadaf, a resident of Mithapur, an intermediate student of Miller high school, over the issue of love affairs. “They met with Sadaf at Boring Road near Panchmukhi temple and entered into an argument and asked him not to try to contact his girlfriend. Suddenly, one of the accused stabbed Sadaf after which he fell down on the ground in a pool of blood,” he added.Station House Officer (SHO) of Buddha Colony police station, Nihar Bhushan, said, “During interrogation, it was revealed that Sadaf had an affair with a girl who he found on Instagram. However, accused Jayesh Moriash was also in love with the girl. Jayesh and his friend Mukesh Mandal intercepted Sadaf and engaged in a heated argument. Suddenly, Jayesh allegedly stabbed Sadaf. The accused, Jayesh and Sadaf, also became friends with the girl on Instagram,” he added. The SHO said that an FIR was lodged with Buddha colony police station and police arrested both the accused along with the knife which was used in the crime. “Sadaf’s body was sent to the PMCH for autopsy,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/patna-schoolboy-stabbed-to-death-over-alleged-affair-101639716052922.html
17-12-2021||Bhopal||Chhatarpur: 1-year-old rescued from borewell, MP CM congratulates authorities||Madhya Pradesh chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan on Friday expressed happiness over the rescue of a one-year-old girl who fell into a 15 feet borewell in the Chhatarpur district on Thursday.Taking to Twitter, Chouhan congratulated the rescue teams, administration, police officials and residents for their efforts in the rescue operation.Calling the one-year-old Divyanshi as "his niece", the chief minister said, “It is a feeling of great joy seeing the dear niece safe in her mother’s lap.”Local police and personnel of the Army took almost six hours to take out Divyanshi from the borewell. She has been hospitalised and her condition is stable.“Rescue operation went on from around 4 pm (Thursday) till 12:30 am (Friday). The condition of the child is stable right now. We ensured oxygen supplies through the cylinder while the child was stuck inside the borewell,” Dr RS Prajapati, of the hospital where Divyanshi has been admitted, told news agency ANI.नास्ति मातृसमा छाया, नास्ति मातृसमा गतिः।नास्ति मातृसमं त्राण, नास्ति मातृसमा प्रिया।प्यारी भाँजी को अपनी माँ की गोद में सुरक्षित देख अतीव आनंद की अनुभूति हो रही है।मैं समस्त बचाव दल, प्रशासन, पुलिस तथा अन्य सभी नागरिकों को इस सफल अभियान में योगदान हेतु बधाई देता हूँ। https://t.co/dHsC3l7mczRamsakhi Kushwaha, Divyanshi's mother earlier said that she left her daughter with other children to play in an open area on Thursday afternoon.Kushwaha added that a child came and informed that her daughter had fallen into the borewell. “As soon as I came back here I heard her crying. I called everyone nearby and informed them about the incident. Officials came in and started the rescue operation,” Kushwaha told ANI.This incident in Chhatarpur comes five months after a similar mishap occurred in Vidisha district in July.On July 15, nearly 40 people, who gathered to watch others try to pull out a ten-year-old boy, fell into the 40-feet-deep well after its boundary wall caved in due to the pressure, according to the police. Nineteen people were rescued and 11 bodies, including that of the boy, were recovered.(With ANI inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bhopal-news/chhatarpur-1-year-old-rescued-from-borewell-mp-cm-congratulates-authorities-101639710623897.html
17-12-2021||Delhi||Delhi HC to deliver verdict on Air India’s plea against reinstatement of pilots||The Delhi high court on Friday will pronounce its judgment on a bunch of pleas by Air India against a single judge order directing the reinstatement of over 40 permanent and contractual pilots whose services were terminated last year on account of commercial slowdown in the wake of the Covid-induced lockdown.On June 1, the single judge quashed Air India’s decision to terminate the services of several pilots and refusal to accept the withdrawal of their resignations. The court had said that the back wages, including allowances, have to be paid at par with what in-service pilots were receiving and in accordance with the government rules. The terminated pilots had initially moved the court in July last year seeking directions to Air India to accept the withdrawal of the resignations tendered by them. Some pilots had initially tendered their resignations over the delay by Air India in disbursing pay and allowances. On August 13, 2020, Air India issued termination letters to several pilots including those who wanted to withdraw their resignations following which, the pilots moved the high court. Challenging the single judge’s order, Air India argued that once a pilot tenders resignation, the legal relationship of an employer-employee comes to an end with it and the resignation cannot be withdrawn subsequently.Solicitor General Tushar Mehta, representing Air India, had contended that under the applicable law, there is no need for a formal acceptance of resignation by the national carrier, and that the six-month notice period post-resignation is only to avoid any hardship to the passengers.Air India, which has been recently sold to the Tatas, earlier cited financial constraints and the impact of Covid-19 on the commercial functioning of the company for the termination before the single judge. A division bench of Justices Rajiv Shakdher and Talwant Singh had reserved its order on October 29 and will pronounce its verdict on Friday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-hc-to-pronounce-verdict-on-air-india-s-plea-against-reinstatement-of-pilot-101639711312827.html
17-12-2021||Punjab||Punjab polls: Amarinder Singh likely to meet senior BJP leaders in Delhi today||Former Punjab chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh is likely to meet senior Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leaders in New Delhi on Friday to discuss a possible seat-sharing arrangement for the upcoming assembly elections in the northern state, news agency PTI reported.Singh left for the national capital on Thursday and is expected to meet the BJP's central leadership.Previously, Singh met the Union minister of Jal Shakti Gajendra Shekhawat on December 7, who is also the BJP's in charge of the Punjab assembly elections.Also Read| Our mission is to form next govt in Punjab: Capt AmarinderA week later - on December 14 - Shekhawat said that Singh's party - the Punjab Lok Congress - and the BJP are likely to join hands for the elections. Both parties are like-minded and hold identical views on several issues, Shekhawat added.Before Shekhawat, Union home minister Amit Shah had said on December 4 that the BJP was in talks with Amarinder Singh and the breakaway Akali faction led by Sukhdev Singh Dhindsa of the Shiromani Akali Dal (Sanyukt), adding an alliance might come up ahead of the assembly elections in Punjab.Captain Amarinder Singh resigned from the Congress in September this year amid a power tussle with the party's Punjab unit president Navjot Singh Sidhu. More than 50 MLAs had written to Congress President Sonia Gandhi, seeking that Singh should be removed from the top post.Also Read| 'Party has given its elders...': What Rahul Gandhi said about Amarinder SinghThe former Punjab chief minister formed his party in November. On December 12, Amarinder Singh said that talks are on to ally with the BJP and Sukhdev Singh Dhindsa's party and an announcement of seat adjustment will be made soon.Elections to 117 assembly seats in Punjab are set to happen in 2022. In 2017, Congress won an absolute majority by winning 77 seats and ousted the SAD-BJP government after a decade. On the other hand, the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) emerged as the second-largest party in Punjab as it won 20 out of the total seats.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/elections/punjab-assembly-election/punjab-polls-amarinder-singh-likely-to-meet-senior-bjp-leaders-in-delhi-today-101639699317554.html
17-12-2021||Delhi||Delhiwale: ‘I’m fearless’||Salman, as he introduces himself rather reluctantly, is almost entirely hidden behind a huge pile of vegetables. He has parked his veggie cart in an Old Delhi street, opposite a perfume shop. The lane is relatively quiet this afternoon. In fact, things are moving so slowly that Salman seems to be dozing off, with his arms resting lazily on a mound of phool gobhis. There being no customers for the moment, Salman, 22, gamely agrees to become a part of the Proust Questionnaire series in which folks are nudged to make “Parisian parlour confessions”, all to explore the citizens’ distinct experiences. Amused by the questions, the young man responds to some of them almost instantly. With others, he takes his time, thinking for long before making a considered reply. But soon customers start trooping in, and his thought process is frequently interrupted by shoppers coming over to get baingan, aloo, hari mirchi, neembu, pyaz and whatever else is on his cart. Curiously, the cart has the name Saleem painted on it. “Saleem is the cart owner,” Salman explains.Your favourite namesAamir, Samir, Sameera, Aamna.What do you hate the most?Karela.Your favourite virtue or the principal aspect of your personalityI’m fearless.Your favourite qualities in a manHe should never admit defeat.Your favourite qualities in a womanShe should look after her family well.What do you appreciate the most in your friends?To help each other whenever needed.Your main faultI have no fault.Your favourite occupationPlaying cricket.Your idea of happinessTalking to mummy in Lucknow on WhatsApp video.Your idea of misery or what would be your greatest misfortune?To again have a lockdown.If not yourself, who would you be?I am what I want to be. I wanted to sell vegetables. So I’m here. I have no majboori (compulsion) to live in Delhi. I can leave it whenever I wish to.Where would you like to live?Lucknow, my home town. I go there whenever the mood strikes.Your favourite colour and flowerBlack, Lotus.Your favourite birdBaaz.Your favourite musicBhojpuri songs.Your heroes/heroines in real lifeSalman Khan, Katrina Kaif.Your favourite food and drinkArbi Gosht, Thumbs Up.Your motto in lifeStay fearless.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhiwale-i-m-fearless-101639700398288.html
17-12-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana MC employees ‘caught’ burning waste in open||With residents fighting tooth and nail over rising air pollution and urging political parties to announce ‘green manifesto’ ahead of elections, the municipal corporation (MC) staff is being repeatedly accused of adding to the pollution by burning the organic waste in parks and open public places. On Thursday too, the MC staffers were allegedly caught setting the organic waste on fire near the parking area of Rose Garden. Intriguingly the site is around 100 metres away from the official residence of mayor Balkar Sandhu and member of parliament (MP) Ravneet Bittu. Complaint submitted by Council of EngineersCouncil of Engineers have submitted a complaint against the MC staff authorities to the chief secretary, chairman of Punjab Pollution Control Board and MC commissioner over the alleged acts of burning organic waste. A similar complaint has also been forwarded against Verka Milk plant officials for burning the organic waste in the premises on Thursday morning.  President, Council of Engineers Kapil Arora said, “Burning of waste adds to pollution and causes respiratory and skin diseases. It is the duty of MC to stop others from indulging in the illegal activity, but its own staff is acting against restriction orders issued by National Green Tribunal (NGT) and Supreme Court in the past. The employees also misbehave with the public when they oppose the burning of waste.” “Earlier too, complaints have been submitted with the senior officials, but to no avail. If MC and senior officials in the local bodies department failed to take action then we will be forced to move NGT,” said Arora. MC health officer Vipal Malhotra said that the department has not received any complaint against MC staffers indulging in illegal activity of burning waste in parks recently. The public should submit a complaint along with the proof and required action will be taken against the employees too. A minimum fine of ₹5000 is imposed on the violators who are caught burning the waste in open.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-mc-employees-caught-burning-waste-in-open-101639697870175.html
17-12-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana | Students shiver on cold floors, invigilators asleep at the wheel||Even though the mercury plummetted and a thick fog cloaked the city, shivering students were spotted haunched over the cold grimy floor as they took their final exam at Government High School, Sunet, near Bhai Randhir Singh Nagar on Tuesday.Citing inadequate infrastructure, students of Classes 6, 7 and 9 were made to take the exam on the floor. Several parents saw red when they spotted their children sitting on the dusty school grounds in the freezing cold through the damaged school wall. “Perhaps, our education minister should visit these schools before boasting of development in government schools. It was difficult to drive my children to school in the thick fog, and it was terrible to see them shivering while writing their exam with frozen hands,” said a parent.A senior teacher, on condition of anonymity, said, “In order to accommodate students taking their board exams, we had no other option, but to make the other students sit outside in the open. Besides, had we made the students sit inside, they would have made a noise and disturbed those sitting for their board exam. Our school building is under construction, and soon we will have more room.” Another teacher blamed the Punjab School Education Board for the date sheet clash. On December 12, students of Government Senior Secondary School, Punjab Agricultural University (PAU), and Government High School, Giaspura, had been made to sit on the floor. A senior official in the local education department said that since there are double benches in the classrooms, two students cannot be seated together.A mockery of exams In mockery of the examination process, class 9 students were seen huddling together on mats and discussing the answers before filling their respective OMR ( Optical Mark Recognition) sheets. Though invigilators were present, they failed to check the students. The teachers’ blamed inadequate resources for conducting examinations for failing to keep the students honest. Meanwhile, parents and students have requested school authorities to delay the school timings in the wake of the fog and cold in the morning.District education officer Lakhvir Singh Samra, however, said that timings of the exams cannot be changed. 
17-12-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana | Residents block Haibowal Road for three hours||At a time when chief minister (CM) Charanjit Singh Channi was announcing different development projects in the city on Thursday, shopkeepers and residents of Haibowal main road staged a protest against the state government, congress councillor Harvinder Bhatia (Rocky) and MLA Rakesh Pandey over the pathetic condition of main Haibowal Road and choked sewer lines. The shopkeepers blocked the main road for over three hours. The protest obstructed smooth flow of traffic and public had to switch to diverted routes. The agitation was lifted after councillor Bhatia assured that the issue of choked sewer lines will be resolved by December 20 and the road construction work will be expedited.Protestors’ woesOne of the shopkeepers, Rajinder Matharoo stated that repeated complaints have been submitted with the MC officials, the councillor and MLA, but to no avail. The road has been dug up for over seven months and the work has still not been completed despite it being the main road. Sewer water accumulation and filthy conditions are adding to the woes, but the councillor and authorities are not bothered. “We were forced to stage a protest and will again raise an agitation if the issue of choked lines is not resolved by December 20, as assured by the councillor. The business has been affected badly due to the potholed road,” said the shopkeeper.The shopkeepers said that road cave-in incidents have also taken place in the past and two occupants had a narrow escape when a road portion caved in and their car got stuck in the pit in the month of October. Road accidents are also taking place due to potholed road and business has been impacted badly, but the authorities are not paying heed to the issue.Same state at Jassiyan Road Former district president of BJP and former councillor Rajiv Katna stated that the area has been completely ignored by the MC, councillor Bhatia and MLA Rakesh Pandey. Even the shopkeepers at Jassiyan Road had staged a protest over the pathetic condition of the road last week. The public is bearing the brunt for the apathy of authorities and elected representatives.Despite attempts made to reach councillor Bhatia and MLA Pandey, they were not available for comments. MC SDO, Anshul Garcha stated that the work of laying the sewer lines got delayed due to ongoing pandemic and monsoon season. The issue regarding the sewer lines will be resolved in a few days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-residents-block-haibowal-road-for-three-hours-101639697810103.html
17-12-2021||Chandigarh||Privatisation of PSBs: Banks employees start two-day strike||As part of a nationwide protest against the Union government’s decision to privatise two public sector banks, employees of state-run banks under the banner of United Forum of Bank Unions (UFBU) kicked off a two-day strike on Thursday.Staging a protest outside Canara Bank near Bharat Nagar Chowk, hundreds of employees said that the move will benefit corporate houses and public money was being handed over to private hands. Employees of the State Bank of India (SBI), Punjab National Bank, Bank of Baroda, Central Bank of India and Canara Bank among others are participating in the strike.The rally was addressed by Punjab Bank Employees’ Federation president PR Mehta, Joint Trade Union Council general secretary DP Maur, UFBU convenor Naresh Gaur among others.Mehta said, “Public sector banks act as catalysts in economic development of the nation in general and particularly for underprivileged sections of the society and backward regions. Nationalised banks have played a major role in the development of agriculture, small trade, small business, SSI, transport and in upliftment of weaker sections of the society. In 2008, when the world economy had plunged into a deep financial crisis and meltdown, it was PSBs, which helped the Indian economy survive.”“There is an argument that PSBs are not doing well and hence to ensure better efficiency, these banks have to be privatised. We all know that many private banks have failed and closed down in the past due to mismanagement. On the other hand, all the PSBs are doing well and earning substantial profit. Gross operating profit of public sector banks in the last 10 years is ₹14,78,289 crores,” he added.Gaur stated that the protest is against the Union government’s plan of tabling the Banking Laws Amendment Bill 2021 in the Parliament session and plans to privatise two public sector banks.“ Bad loans and non-performing assets (NPA) in the banks have been increasing every year due to corporate defaulters. Instead of taking action against them, the government wants to white wash the balance sheets by shifting these bad loans from the books of the banks to the assets reconstruction Company or the Bad Bank. This will only benefit the corporate defaulters and remove all the bad loans from public glare and silently write them off. Banks and Insurance companies deal with people’s money. Privatising them means handing over people’s money to private vested interests,” said Gaur, while adding that the agitation will continue in the coming time and protests/strikes will be planned as per the decision taken by UFBU at national level.A protest rally will be organised on the second day of strike on Friday outside State Bank of India near Fountain Chowk.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/privatisation-of-psbs-banks-employees-start-two-day-strike-101639697691961.html
17-12-2021||Chandigarh||UFBU strike: Public, industry on receiving end as transactions worth ₹800-cr hit in Ludhiana||With the United Forum of Bank Unions (UFBU) kicking off a two-day strike against privatisation of banks on Thursday, the public and industrialists were on the receiving end as banking transactions worth ₹800 crore were affected on the first day. Seeking quick resolution of the issue, industrialists said that closure of banks not only affects business at large, but also the credibility of suppliers and buyers due to delay in payments.All Industries and Trade Forum president Badish Jindal said with banking transactions affected, the industry also has to pay interest due to delayed payment of bank loans. “The government on the other hand benefits from these strikes as interest payable on loans increases. Bank employees should not hold banking services hostage as the entire industry and the general are harassed and face monetary losses at large,” said Jindal.‘Production process delayed’ Janta Nagar Small-Scale Manufacturers’ Association president Jaswinder Thukral said, “We could not pay for raw material, which will delay the production process. It is the industry which bears the brunt of these strikes.”Asserting that the striking bank did not intend to harass the public or the industry, UFBU convener Naresh Gaur said, “Our salaries are also deducted on strike days. If we wanted to harass the public, we would have announced a strike on Saturday and banking services would have been hit for four consecutive days. We only want to stop the government from privatising the bank sectors, which will only benefit corporate houses. We urge representatives of others sectors to support our agitation as well.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ufbu-strike-public-industry-on-receiving-end-as-transactions-worth-800-cr-hit-in-ludhiana-101639697570112.html
17-12-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana | Farmers stage protest as Ladhowal toll plaza resumes ops before SKM meet||Taking umbrage with the resumption of operations at the Ladhowal Toll Plaza, farmers affiliated with the Kirti Kisan Union and Bhartiya Kisan Union, Kadian, staged a sit-in protest on Thursday. A scuffle also ensued between toll plaza security staff and the farmers after they asked the toll plaza staff to suspend operations. The police intervened in time, and broke up the fight. Later, the toll plaza officials agreed to suspend operations. The standoff caused a traffic jam on the NH-44. The activists of the Kirti Kisan Union also blocked the NH-44 in front of the police station.The union members said not only had operations at the toll plaza been resumed, but the provision of multiple journeys within 24 hours from the toll plaza had ben scrapped.“It is a breach of agreement. It was decided that the decision to operate toll plazas will be taken after the meeting of the Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM), but the authorities have already resumed operations. Later, the toll plaza officials agreed to cooperate and operations were suspended,” said Kirti Kisan Union leader Santokh Singh Sekhon.The farmers had decided to end the sit-in protest at the Ladhowal Toll Plaza on December 15. However, later, farmer unions gave a call to resume the protest as the toll officials had revised the rate from ₹125 to ₹135 for a single journey, ₹185 to ₹200 for return journey and scrapped the provision of multiple journey provision within a 24-hour window.National Highways Authority of India project director Virender Singh also visited the venue and discussed the matter with the farmer leaders . However, the talks remained inconclusive. “The prices have not been increased, rather adjusted as per the wholesale price index (WPI) and an advertisement in this regard was also published in leading daily newspapers in September,” he said. Bone of contentionIncrease in single journey and return-journey toll rates. Scrapping of the existing monthly passes, which will require commuters to apply for them afresh. Taking toll first at Ladhowal Toll Plaza and then at the Southern Bypass.Full toll for commuters not using Fastag.Scrapping the provision of multiple journeys within a 24-hour window.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-farmers-stage-protest-as-ladhowal-toll-plaza-resumes-ops-before-skm-meet-101639697450168.html
17-12-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana | Will regularise ‘safai sewaks: Punjab CM||Punjab chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi, who laid the foundation stone of a slew of developmental projects in district on Thursday, said that the government will soon complete the process of regularising the services of ‘safai sewaks’ in the state. Channi said the municipal corporation will hand over letters to regularise the services of around 2,480 sanitary workers, sewer men and other staff in the civic body. The CM made the announcement, while handing over a cheque of ₹1.8 crore for the Bhagwan Valmiki Bhawan. He also said that a state-of-the-art trauma centre will be built in Ludhiana, which will be named after Dr BR Ambedkar. “The trauma centre will be a real tribute to Baba Sahib and will cost approximately ₹10 crore,” he said. He also handed over a cheque of ₹4.14 crore to the municipal corporation to complete the construction of Ambedkar Bhawan. ‘Will be the voice of street vendors’ In a major respite to street vendors, the chief minister asked the police and administration to not “unnecessarily harass the hard working rehriwalas . The street vendors should work fearlessly as the CM will be their voice from now onwards.” “A bridge worth ₹10 crore will be built on Chand Cinema Road and an under bridge will come up on Jassian Road, which will approximately cost ₹6 crore. Around ₹7 crore will be sanctioned for the overall development of the Ludhiana north constituency,” he said. The CM also announced that 11 kanal land will be alloted to Durga Mata Mandir management for construction of a super specialty hospital. Earlier, Channi had also laid the foundation stone of ‘Atal Apartments’ in the Shaheed Karnail Singh Nagar area on Pakhowal Road.Traffic snarls abound With the chief minister attending multiple events and a rally at Vardhman Road, several traffic snarls were seen across town. The traffic diversion from Fountain Chowk and the ongoing elevated road project on Ferozepur Road further compounded the problem. Commuters were seen stuck in serpentine queues at Bharat Nagar Road.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-will-regularise-safai-sewaks-punjab-cm-101639697390439.html
17-12-2021||Chandigarh||Dense fog cloaks Ludhiana, night temperature hovers around 5°C||A thick blanket of fog enveloped the district on Thursday, reducing visibility to merely 50m. With the mercury plunging to 13.6°C, six notches below 19. 6°C recorded on Wednesday, commuters, especially those on a two-wheeler, had a hard time travelling in the chilly weather conditions. Fortunately, despite the low visibility no road mishaps were reported in the city. Meteorologists say the cold wave sweeping through the district is likely to persist till December 20.As per the Punjab Agricultural University department of climate change and agricultural meteorology, the temperature is likely to reduce further in the coming days. The minimum temperature is likely to dip further and hover around 3°C.Department head Prabhjyot Kaur said the weather is expected to remain cold and dry with a possibility of moderate to dense fog in Ludhiana and its adjoining areas till December 20. “There is no forecast of rainfall,” she said. Railway schedule derailed Around seven trains, which start or cross Ludhiana, were delayed due to the foggy weather conditions. However, no train had to be cancelled. The trains that were delayed due to low visibility include the Paschim Express and Swaraj Express that were delayed by an hour. The evening Shatabdi Express, which runs from Delhi to Amritsar, was delayed by one-and-a-half hour .“The Northern Railways have already cancelled around 25 long-route trains till February 28 anticipating dense fog,” said a senior railway official.The traisn that have been permanently cancelled many include the Haridwar-Amritsar Jan Shatabdi, Nangal Dam-Amritsar Express, Katihar-Amritsar Amrapali Express, Kolkata Chitpur-Amritsar Durgiana Express, Ajmer-Amritsar Express, Yog Nagari Rishikesh-Jammu Tawi Express, Gangasutlej Express, Brahmputra Mail and Bikaner-Delhi Sarai Rohilla Express.“While trains may get delayed due to the fog in this season, we will try to ensure that the passengers are not harassed,” said a senior official at the Ludhiana railway station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/dense-fog-cloaks-ludhiana-night-temperature-hovers-around-5c-101639697210198.html
17-12-2021||Chandigarh||Infants’ death case: NHRC again seeks proof of payment of compensation from J&K govt||The National Human Rights Commission (NHRC) has asked the Jammu and Kashmir government to produce proof of payment of compensation to the kin of a dozen infants, who died after consuming toxic cough syrup in Ramanagar area of Udhampur in December 2019 and January 2020. “NHRC vide its recent direction on December 8 has directed its registry to issue final reminder to chief secretary of J&K as well as additional secretary, department of health and medical education, J&K, to submit the proof of payment of ₹3 lakh to next of kin of each deceased infants within six weeks positively failing which this commission will be constrained to invoke its coercive powers, calling for the personal appearance of the authority concerned before the commission,” said eminent social activist Sukesh C Khajuria, who had taken up the matter, quoting an NHRC order . NHRC has also directed UT administration that the additional/complete report as directed by the commission in the matter be sent latest by January 29 next year for further consideration by the commission. Khajuria had approached the NHRC for ordering appropriate compensation to the victims and fixing of responsibility of the state authorities in the case. The kids had consumed toxic syrup manufactured by a Himachal Pradesh-based pharmaceutical company.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/infants-death-case-nhrc-again-seeks-proof-of-payment-of-compensation-from-j-k-govt-101639696610120.html
17-12-2021||Chandigarh||Srinagar SSP shunted within 9 months of posting||Amid the spike in militant activities in Srinagar, the J&K government on Thursday replaced the Srinagar senior superintendent of police (SP), Sandeep Chaudhary, barely nine months after assigning him the top post.Chaudhary, a 2012-batch IPS officer, who has now been moved to the cyber crime investigation centre for excellence as SSP, was posted as Srinagar police chief in March this year. Rakesh Balwal, another 2012-batch IPS officer, has replaced him. A Manipur cadre officer, whose inter-cadre deputation to AGMUT (UT of Jammu and Kashmir) was cleared in October, Balwal was earlier on deputation with the NIA, where he investigated the 2019 Pulwama bombing case as well. Chaudhary was among the 27 officers who were transferred by the J&K home department on Thursday. Others transferred also include two officers in Srinagar — SP South City and SP Hazratbal. SP South City has jurisdiction over the Hyderpora area, where recently a controversial encounter took place in which four people were killed. Javid Ahmed Koul, IPS, SSP (Traffic City) Srinagar, is transferred and posted as SO to ADGP, (Traffic) J&K with additional charge of the posts of DIG, Traffic, Jammu and DIG, Traffic, Kashmir. Shridhar Patil, IPS, awaiting orders of posting upon modification of transfer on deputation to Ladakh, is posted as AIG (Tech) PHQ, against an available vacancy. Vinod Kumar, IPS, SSP, Poonch, is transferred and posted as SSP, Udhampur. Sargun Shukla, IPS, SSP, Udhampur, is transferred and posted as SO to IGP Technical Services. Abhishek Mahajan, IPS, awaiting orders of posting is posted as SP Samba. Sheema Nabi Qasba, IPS, SP Rajouri is transferred and posted as SP (Tech), CID HQ. Lakshya Sharma, IPS, SP (Tech), CID HQ, is transferred and posted as SP South, Srinagar. Mohita Sharma, IPS, SP North, Jammu, is transferred and posted as SP, Ramban. Zahid Nasim Manhas, Commandant 1st Border Bn Jammu, is transferred and posted as SSP CID HQ J&K. Rajesh Kumar Sharma, SSP Samba, is transferred and posted as Commandant IR-22nd Bn. Mohammad Aslam, SSP, CID HQ, J&K, is transferred and posted as SSP Rajouri. Mumtaz Ahmed, SSP, Doda, is transferred and posted as Commandant 1st Border Bn, Jammu. Rohit Baskotra, SP CID, SB Jammu, is transferred and posted as SP, Poonch. Arun Gupta, SP CICE, is transferred and posted as SP CID, SB Jammu. Liaqat Ali, additional SP Poonch, is transferred and posted as SP APCR Kashmir, against an available vacancy. Rakesh Kumar, SO to ADGP, Traffic J&K, is transferred and shall await further posting in PHQ. Sanjay Kumar Bhagat, SO to IGP Technical Services, is transferred and posted as Commandant Women Battalion Kashmir, against an available vacancy. Abdul Qayoom, additional SP Bhaderwah, is transferred and posted as SP Doda. Rajinder Kumar Katoch, Commandant IR-22nd Bn., is transferred and posted as SO to DIG, JKS Range, against an available vacancy. Muzaffar Ahmad Shah, deputy Commandant, IR- 11th Bn, is transferred and posted as SP Traffic City Srinagar. Sajad Ahmad Shah, SP South, Srinagar, is transferred and posted as deputy Commandant, IR-11th Bn. Irshad Hussain Rather, SP Hazratbal, Srinagar, is transferred and posted as additional SP Handwara. Mashkoor Ahmed Zargar, additional SP Handwara, is transferred and posted as SP Hazratbal, Srinagar. Pushkar Nath Tikoo, deputy Commandant IR-5th Bn, is transferred and posted as additional SP CID (CI), Jammu. Kulbir Chand Handa, additional SP CID (CI), Jammu, is transferred and posted as SP North, Jammu. Meanwhile, the government shifted and posted Vikas Kundal, MD J&K Projects Construction Corporation as DC Rajouri vice Rajesh Kumar Shavan.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/srinagar-ssp-shunted-within-9-months-of-posting-101639696309979.html
17-12-2021||Chandigarh||Mercury drops in Himachal, Shimla records coldest night of season||Himachal Pradesh reeled under intense cold on Thursday after the night temperature across the state plummeted to below freezing point as a fresh western disturbance became active in the region. Shimla MeT centre director Surender Paul said that Shimla recorded the coldest night of the season. Last season, Shimla had recorded lowest minimum temperature of minus 1.1 degrees Celsius on December 28, 2020. Paul said that the temperatures will further plummet in next few days and cold conditions will intensify in the region. Keylong coldest in stateMeanwhile, Keylong, the administrative headquarters of tribal Lahaul-Spiti district, was the coldest place in the state with the lowest temperature recorded at minus 7 degrees Celsius. Kalpa, a small hill town in another tribal district Kinnaur, shivered at minus 6 degrees Celsius. The MeT department official said the average minimum temperature was 2-3 degrees below normal. At some places, the mercury at night dropped by at least a couple of notches compared to the minimum temperature recorded the previous night. Hill-resort of Kufri froze at minus 1.8 degrees Celsius, while famous tourist town Manali was cold at minus 2 degrees Celsius. Bhunter in Kullu recorded a low of minus 1 degree C, Sundernagar in Mandi logged minus 0.7 degrees and Solan minus 0.4 degrees C. Dalhousie, Palampur and Dharamshala recorded the minimum temperature at 0.2 degrees Celsius, 2 degrees and 2.8 degrees, respectively. Meanwhile, the MeT department has predicted rain and snow in the middle and higher hills on Friday. The skies would clear from Saturday onwards. Snowfall in Kashmir’s upper reachesHigher reaches of Kashmir received mild snowfall on Thursday as ski resort of Gulmarg again recorded coldest night of the season after mercury plunged to minus 10 degrees Celsius on the previous night. J&K meteorological department said there was mild snowfall on the mountains and mountain resorts.“Gulmarg received 0.5 cm of snow, while it snowed 0.3 cm in Pahalgam. There was also snowfall in the mountains of Kokernag and Sonmarg,” said an official of J&K’s MeT department.J&K MeT director Sonam Lotus said there were reports of light snow at places like Gurez , Sonmarg and Zojila-Dras axis. “The same weather will most likely continue till late tonight and improve thereafter,” Lotus said.The department said the nights continued to record sub-zero temperatures in Kashmir for the 12th day. Srinagar recorded a minimum temperature of -2.1 degrees Celsius. In south Kashmir, the mountain resort of Pahalgam recorded a night temperature of -6.9°C. It was -4.5°C in Konibal, - 4.5°C in Kupwara, and -3.0°C in Qazigund. Even two weather stations in Jammu — Banihal and Bhaderwah — recorded freezing temperatures of -1.2 degrees and -0.4 degrees, respectively. In the union territory of Ladakh, Dras recorded bone chilling - 19.2°C while it was – 15.0°C in Leh during the night.The harsh 40-day winter period of the Kashmir valley — Chillai Kalan — starts from December 21. There is forecast of snowfall on the Christmas Eve.Lotus said that widespread moderate to heavy snowfall is most likely during December 23 and 25.“We are in for a white Christmas in both J&K and Ladakh,” he added. Kashmir’s winter pans out in three stages starting with 40-day intense period from December 21(locally called Chillai Kalan) followed by 20 more days which are less intense(called Chillai Khurd) and then lastly 10 days of mild cold (Chille Bache).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/mercury-drops-in-himachal-shimla-records-coldest-night-of-season-101639696010529.html
17-12-2021||Chandigarh||Swarnim Vijay Varsh: J&K LG pays homage to 1971 war heroes||As a part of Swarnim Vijay Varsh celebrations to commemorate the 50th anniversary of India’s victory over Pakistan in the 1971 war, Rising Star Corps under aegis of Western Command organised a memorial service at Balidan Stambh here on Thursday. Rich tributes were paid to the gallant war heroes and bravehearts who ensured the victory in 1971 by making supreme sacrifice for the nation. J&K lieutenant governor (LG) Manoj Sinha, the chief guest on the occasion, laid wreath at eternal flame of Balidan Stambh War Memorial and paid homage to the fallen heroes. Lt Gen YK Joshi, GOC-in-C Northern Command, Dilbag Singh, DGP J&K Police, Lt Gen PN Ananthanarayanan, GOC Rising Star Corps, Lt Gen Manjinder Singh, GOC White Knight Corps, IG BSF, deputy mayor of Jammu and Maj Gen Neeraj Gosain, GOC Tiger Division also laid wreath and paid homage to the bravehearts. Hony Capt Bana Singh, PVC, Lt Col Rishma Sarin, wife of late Maj Mohit Sharma, Ashok Chakra (P) and other military and civil dignitaries also paid rich tributes. Later, LG Manoj Sinha released a ‘Special Cover’ and unveiled the mural of Late ASI Babu Ram, Ashok Chakra, of J&K Police in presence of his family members. The LG, along with army commander Lt Gen YK Joshi and senior dignitaries, interacted with ‘Veer Naris’, awardees and veterans of the 1971 war and felicitated them. While interacting with veterans, the chief guest said nothing can be equal to the sacrifices made by the veterans. The LG extended his gratitude and assured of government’s all possible support to ensure their welfare and said our every warrior of today is a respected veteran of tomorrow. It is our duty to ensure their well-being and fulfil their needs, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/swarnim-vijay-varsh-j-k-lg-pays-homage-to-1971-war-heroes-101639695769961.html
17-12-2021||Chandigarh||RSS chief Mohan Bhagwat arrives in Kangra on four-day visit||Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) chief Mohan Bhagwat arrived on a four-day visit to Kangra on Thursday. He landed in the morning and headed straight to the RSS office in Kangra. He refused to make any statement to the media at the airport. As per sources, Bhagwat will interact with RSS volunteers over the next three days. He will return on December 19. Mehbooba pays obeisance at Satwari Dargah in JammuFormer chief minister and president of the People’s Democratic Party, Mehbooba Mufti, arrived in Jammu on Thursday for a week-long tour. Mufti visited Dargah of Peer Budhan Ali Shah located on the outskirts of the city. Mufti will be visiting Rajouri and Poonch before addressing a party convention in Jammu. JCO shot dead by colleague in Balakote A junior commissioned officer (JCO) of the army was shot dead by his colleague on the Line of Control (LoC) in Balakote sector of Poonch district on Thursday afternoon, officials familiar with the matter said. The deceased was identified was Subedar Jasbir Singh. A police officer said that around 3.40pm, Subedar Jasbir Singh was shot dead by Sepoy Laxminarayan of 15 Rajputana Rifles near Balakote. “The sepoy was immediately taken into custody by the army and later brought to Balakote police post. The body has been sent for autopsy,” said the officer. The army, however, has not issued any statement as yet. Medicities to come up in Pampore, Jammu The J&K administrative council that met here under the chairmanship of the LG Manoj Sinha approved the proposal of industries and commerce department to establish two medicities, one each at Sempora, Pampore and Miransahib, Jammu. Farooq Khan and Rajeev Rai Bhatnagar, advisers to the LG, Arun Kumar Mehta, chief secretary, and Nitishwar Kumar, principal secretary to the LG attended the meeting. Approval to upgrading Jammu dental collegeThe J&K administrative council on Thursday accorded approval to the construction of additional block of Indira Gandhi Government Dental College, Jammu, at an estimated cost of ₹44.46 crore. The construction of the new block will cater to the increased patient load by creating infrastructure for several clinical departments. Palampur shepherd wins Breed Conservation Award -2021Nandu Ram, 85, a shepherd belonging to Gaddi tribe and resident of Band Vihar village in HP’s Palampur, has won ICAR-National Bureau of Animal Genetic Resources’ Breed Conservation Award-2021. The award will be conferred on him on December 23 ‘Kisan Divas and Breed Conservation Award’ at Karnal, V-C of Chaudhary Sarwan Kumar Himachal Pradesh Agriculture University, Palampur Prof HK Chaudhary said on Thursday. Ram will be awarded in individual category. ‘Women’s detention violation of democratic norms’The People’s Conference led by Sajad Lone has termed the arrest of two women for protesting after killing of two militants on Monday at Rangreth highly reprehensible and in violation of democratic norms. The police had detained the mother-daughter duo from Wanbal on Tuesday for sloganeering. Lone said, “It is extremely suffocating to live in a place where the government’s sword is perpetually hanging over our heads. This administration has gone berserk and is arresting people by every minute.” The Hurriyat Conference also called the incident “very unfortunate”. Apni Party president Syed Mohammed Altaf Bukhari pitched for equal development of all regions of J&K at a workers’ meeting in Poonch. It is because of the workers at the ground level that the party has gained support from the people in Pir Panjal region in such a short period of time, he said.Covid infects 133 more, claims lives of 5 in J&K Jammu and Kashmir on Thursday recorded 133 fresh Covid cases that took its tally to 3,39,404, while five more fatalities pushed the death toll 4,508, officials said. Of the fresh cases, 31 were from the Jammu division and 102 from the Kashmir division of the union territory, they said. Srinagar district recorded the highest number of new cases at 48, followed by 24 in Baramulla district. The number of active cases in Jammu and Kashmir stands at 1,435. Srinagar district has the highest number of active cases at 500 followed by Jammu and Baramulla districts with 211 and 199 active cases, respectively. So far, 3,33,461 people have recovered from the viral disease, the officials said. Meanwhile, Himachal logged 54 new cases and one fatality due to the virus. There are 526 active cases in the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/rss-chief-mohan-bhagwat-arrives-in-kangra-on-four-day-visit-101639695589927.html
17-12-2021||Chandigarh||Dalai Lama holds first in-person meeting since March 2020||The doors of Tibetan spiritual leader the Dalai Lama’s palace at McLeodganj have been reopened for public for in-person audience for the first time since the Covid-19 outbreak in March last year. The Dalai Lama granted first in-person audience to Sikyong (president) of Central Tibetan Administration (CTA) Penpa Tsering on Wednesday. It was also Tsering’s first official in-person audience with the Dalai Lama since he assumed the responsibility of Sikyong in May 2021. Speaking to the media after the meeting, Tsering pledged to work towards the resolution of the Sino-Tibetan conflict. “Since March 2020, His Holiness the Dalai Lama has not met any member of the public in-person due to the Covid-19 pandemic. Now, he has resumed in-person meetings with the public and the first audience was granted to me as Sikyong,” said Tsering. Gradually, the Dalai Lama will start granting audiences to one or two members of the public, although it still would not be possible for the large majority of the people, he said.Tsering’s last in-person audience with the Dalai Lama was in October 2017, though he received four online audiences with the spiritual leader after assuming the office “I also pledge to perform my duties with the blessings and advice of His Holiness the Dalai Lama to serve the Tibetan public and our common cause,” Tsering said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/dalai-lama-holds-first-in-person-meeting-since-march-2020-101639695109901.html
17-12-2021||Chandigarh||Himachal growers seek ban on Iranian apples||A couple of weeks after India suspended the import of kiwi fruit from Iran due to a rise in pest-infested consignments, apple growers in Himachal Pradesh have now demanded a blanket ban on apples and kiwis imported from Iran and Turkey. There is a growing fear among the fruit growers about harmful pests spreading to their orchards from the foreign apples and kiwis. The fruit growers from Himachal Pradesh have sought intervention of the Union agriculture ministry in banning fruits from Iran, Turkey and Uzbekistan. “Kiwis and apples from Iran and Turkey pose a great risk to flora and fauna of our country. We have requested the government on getting a proper quarantine protocol followed and checked on Iranian apples. These apples are also infected and being dumped on a large scale,” said Lokinder Bisht, president of Progressive Apple Growers Association. “If these incessant and uncontrolled imports are left unchecked, they would make this cash crop completely unviable to grow in our region,” he added. The growers’ association had last year written to the government on banning kiwis and apples from Iran. Agriculture ministry’s National Plant Protection Organisation had banned the import of kiwis from Iran from December 7. However, no decision had yet been taken on apples. Imported apples and kiwis have increased the threat of cataclysmic codling moths and pests spreading in apple orchards. Apples alone in Himachal are a ₹6,000-crore economy and sustain 1.75 lakh families. Of the 12 districts, apple is grown in seven with Shimla, Kullu and Kinnaur being major apple-producing areas. Kiwi farming is also gaining ground in Himachal. Codling moth, which is unknown in India, was detected in some of the Iranian apple consignments in a few cases in Bihar and Bengal this year. Horticulture experts observe that the codling moths can cause extensive damage to the crop. Codling moth can go through two or three cycles per year. They appear at the time apple trees are in bloom to lay eggs on the leaves or fruit. The eggs hatch within six to 20 days and tiny young larvae bore into the end of the small fruit and tunnel to the core where they feed on the seed, said horticulture expert SP Bhardwaj, former associate director at Regional Fruit Research Station, Mashobra. Consumers in the National Capital Region are complaining about “white insects” in kiwi fruit this year. Iranian kiwis are selling for ₹7 per piece in retail these days. “Codling moth infestation in apples is visible at Bihar and Bengal. Let common apple consumers get informed about this. It will be a huge step for the whole community,” said a fruit importer from Ahmedabad, who requested anonymity.Iranian apples are coming in non-recyclable plastic crates that pose double risk to the environment. Russia has banned the import of Iranian apples following the high infection rate last year. Iran has witnessed a bumper crop of apples this year and the fruit is being dumped in markets in the country as the Union ministry has not yet banned the import.Farmers say the unregulated import of infected fruits and plant material from Iran does not only pose a grave risk to the apple and kiwi industry of Himachal and Arunachal Pradesh, but also to the consumers across the country.
17-12-2021||Delhi||7 arrested for operating fake call centres in Tilak Nagar||The Delhi Police on Thursday said they have busted a call centre operating from west Delhi’s Tilak Nagar that was being used to dupe job aspirants.The racket’s alleged mastermind was arrested along with six telecallers after the officers of the cyber cell of Shahdara district raided the call centre on Tuesday. Deputy commissioner of police (Shahdara) R Sathiyasundaram said the frauds have cheated more than 150 people in the name of getting them jobs at top companies in Delhi-NCR.“The alleged accused were obtaining lists of job seekers from a job search site, contacted them and offered jobs. When the aspirants showed interest in the job offers, the cheats tricked them into paying between ₹30,000 and ₹50,000 online payment for registration and other processing fee,” said DCP Sathiyasundaram.The DCP said that the cyber cell registered a cheating case on the complaint of one Pratigya Chaddha, who was duped of ₹30,000 in the name of a teacher’s job in a reputed school.“The accused told her that the school has selected her resume, and told her to pay ₹100 as registration fee through the school’s website. When she clicked the link, ₹30,000 were deducted from her account. When she tried to contact the person, his number was found not in service. She then filed a complaint and a case was registered,” said an investigator.The cons were tracked to a building in west Delhi, and it was raided. “The mastermind of the racket, Hemant Kohli,29, was arrested along with his associate Vinay Kumar,31, and five women telecallers,” added the DCP.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/7-arrested-for-operating-fake-call-centres-in-tilak-nagar-101639693278258.html
17-12-2021||Delhi||SC asks for long-term pollution fix||The Supreme Court on Thursday expressed satisfaction over a slew of measures taken by the Commission for Air Quality Management (CAQM) to control air pollution in Delhi-NCR, even as it directed the commission to invite suggestions from the public and experts to find a “long-term solution” to the problem.“We are going to list this matter now in the first week of February. We are directing the commission to invite suggestions from experts and public regarding long-term solutions to combat the issue of air pollution and also have a solution by the independent expert body,” said a bench headed by Chief Justice of India NV Ramana.The bench, which included justices Dhananjaya Y Chandrachud and Surya Kant, also took note of CAQM’s affidavit filed a day ago that a decision on the resumption of construction activities and reopening of schools will be taken by Friday.During the brief hearing, solicitor general Tushar Mehta, appearing for the Union government and CAQM, took the bench through the latest affidavit, detailing the steps taken and the latest orders of the commission relaxing various curbs on industrial processes and operation of factories and plants.When the CJI remarked the air quality is “very poor today”, Mehta replied that an expert committee is working to ascertain a long-term solution to the problem of air pollution so that knee-jerk reaction for every year is not needed.Delhi’s air quality index (AQI) continued in the “very poor” zone on Thursday, with a reading of 368 at 4pm, up from 363 on Wednesday, according to data released by the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB). In the last 16 days, Delhi has recorded one “severe”, 10 ‘very poor’ and five ‘poor’ AQI days. The city recorded at least one “moderate” air day during the same period last year, as well as in 2019.On his part, senior counsel Vikas Singh, who appeared for the petitioner in the PIL on pollution control measures, submitted that the issue requires a scientific and a permanent solution instead of annual measures at the intervention of the court. The bench agreed with his views and said that CAQM will, therefore, invite suggestions from experts and the general public on the subject.Filing its affidavit on Wednesday, CAQM informed the bench that the decisions on reopening schools and lifting the ban on construction in Delhi-NCR will be taken by Friday.“The representations put forth by various project proponents and associations in the building and construction/ demolition sector, as also by the association of schools/educational institutions are under active examination and consideration by the commission and a decision on these would also be taken soon on or before December 17, based on the impact of the relaxations given above,” CAQM’s affidavit said.Schools in the national capital have been shut on four instances since March last year – twice owing to concerns over Covid-19, and twice because of air pollution, amid concerns expressed by experts over learning loss with little to no respite from the hazardous air even indoors.The Delhi government on December 2 closed all schools in the city, hours after it was questioned by the top court over reopening schools despite high pollution levels. Later that day, the air quality monitoring panel came out with a fresh order expanding the closure order to all of NCR.The ban on construction was imposed by the top court on November 24. However, on December 10, the court permitted CAQM to consider requests for relaxing the construction ban in the wake of improvement in air quality.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/sc-asks-for-long-term-pollution-fix-101639692430488.html
17-12-2021||Gurugram||Namaz row: Contempt plea against top officials||A former Rajya Sabha member has approached the Supreme Court with a petition to initiate contempt proceedings against the Haryana chief secretary and the state’s director general of police over the recent row involving problems faced by Muslims in offering namaz at public spaces in Gurugram.The petition filed by Mohammad Adeeb, a resident of Gurugram, pointed out that a few persons have been attempting to spread hatred and communal disharmony against Muslims following which they feel threatened and have addressed several complaints to the police, which have gone unanswered. Lately, truckloads of persons are approaching namaz sites and raising communally divisive slogans and spewing hatred against the religious community through social media posts, the petition said.“Such hateful campaign, communally divisive incidents and rampant dissemination of propaganda through use of social media, is easily identifiable and is being perpetrated by a limited number of unruly members of the society who are continuously giving effect to their nefarious plans to further hatred and communal disharmony,” the petition said.The petition filed through advocate Fuzail Ahmad Ayyubi referred to the July 2018 decision passed by the Supreme Court directing police and state authorities to take both preventive and remedial steps to prevent incidents of hate crimes, mob lynching and communal violence.“The continuous inaction, apathy of the state machinery and failure of the local law enforcement agencies and administration to prevent such incidents or to find a solution to the crises before it spirals into a monstrosity, is precisely what had been indicated by this court in Tehseen S Poonawalla case (of 2018) and is thus clearly a contempt of this court’s direction,” the petition said. The petition has named chief secretary Sanjeev Kaushal and DGP PK Agrawal as contemnors.The petition said Muslims of Gurugram have been performing Friday prayers peacefully and without causing any disturbance at 37 open spaces for lack of places of worship. This was being done after approval from the relevant government authorities, including municipal and police functionaries. “In the recent months, there has been a constant rise in incidents revolving around the said Friday prayers at the behest of certain identifiable hooligans, with no local support, who portray themselves falsely in the name of religion and seek to create an atmosphere of hatred and prejudice against one community across the city,” the contempt petition said.“The perpetrators are well-known to the respondents/alleged contemnors herein, who have continuously failed to take any effective measures and have rather been bystanders in the entire controversy,” the former independent member from the Rajya Sabha said.He pointed out that Gurugram is an industrial township where persons of different faiths and religions come to work and such provocative actions are witnessed during working hours when people from the neighbouring areas of Delhi and Uttar Pradesh gather.The Jamiat Ulama-e-Hind made complaints to the police, followed by local residents of all faiths, to take note of the growing hate campaign at the behest of a few persons aimed at singling out one community and creating an atmosphere of hatred and lawlessness. “By October 29, the local police, instead of taking any action against such communally divisive incidents, chose to change the pre-approved locations of Friday prayers,” the petition stated, adding that the intensity of hooliganism has increased over the past months every Friday as people are arriving in trucks, in a manner of pre-planned conspiracy to create hateful and communally divisive atmosphere at the places where namaz is offered.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/namaz-row-contempt-plea-against-top-officials-101639691692390.html
17-12-2021||Delhi||HC stays ban on cross-gender massages in Delhi||The Delhi high court on Thursday allowed licensed cross-gender massage spas to operate across the national capital even as it called illegal spas offering prostitution services in the city “unfortunate”.In an interim order, justice Rekha Palli said that just because the city police and the municipal corporations had failed to keep a strict check on the prostitution rackets operating in the garb of spas, there was no reasonable connection between the absolute ban and preventing prostitution at spas.“I am, however, of the prima facie view that merely because the corporations and Delhi Police have not been able to take effective steps to ensure that no illegal spas are operated in Delhi and the ones holding licences do not indulge in any illegal activity whatsoever, this kind of absolute ban on cross-gender massages cannot be said to have any reasonable connection with the aim of the policy which purpose thereof seems to be regulation of the spas and ensure that no illegal trafficking or prostitution takes place in the city,” the court said in a verbal order.The court was hearing a batch of petitions by owners of several spa centres and therapists challenging the Delhi government’s policy guideline prohibiting cross-gender massages and the consequent directions passed by municipal corporations.The court also said that the policy to impose a ban was framed without any consultation with professionals involved in spa services. It said that while the authorities ought to keep a strict check on prostitution rackets, the livelihood of people was getting affected and hence such a ban could not be continued.It directed the three municipal corporations and the city police to inspect areas under their jurisdiction within a week, and take appropriate steps to close all unlicensed spas. It asserted that in case of any illegality, the police should register appropriate cases and immediately pass the information to the municipal bodies for action. “It is however made clear that just because this court has stayed the operation of clause 2b of the guidelines, none if the petitioners or the therapists will carry out any activity which is not expected,” the judge said. Clause 2b of the impugned guidelines prohibits cross-gender massages.Senior advocate Sachin Datta, appearing for one of the petitioners, said that application of the said clause has been excluded from spas and massage centres in physiocentres operated in government or private hospitals or any other hospital run by autonomous bodies.Appearing for the Delhi government, senior advocate Rahul Mehra, told the court that the ban was meant to protect women and children from the menace of prostitution at the spa centres.
17-12-2021||Delhi||Pollution levels worse in small towns: Study||Winter smog and the accompanying severe air pollution is a problem usually associated with Delhi-NCR, but a new analysis by the Centre for Science and Environment (CSE) has found that when pollution spikes during winter, all of northern India experiences smog episodes, with otherwise cleaner, small towns matching or exceeding pollution levels reported in Delhi-NCR.The study, released on Thursday, also found that while there are episodes of smog in November across the entire northern region, it lingers longer in Delhi-NCR and Uttar Pradesh for the rest of the winter as compared to Punjab and north Haryana.“Atmospheric changes during winter that include inversion, calm conditions, change in wind direction and a seasonal drop in ambient temperature across north India entrap pollutants. This is further tripped into the ‘severe’ category by smoke from farm fires and Diwali firecrackers during November. But air quality improves from ‘severe’ to ‘poor’ and ‘moderate’ categories in cities of Punjab and North Haryana post stubble fire season but it remains in the ‘very poor’ category in NCR and UP till February,” the analysis found.For the study, data from 127 continuous ambient air quality monitoring stations (CAAQMS) across 56 cities was analysed as part of the air quality tracker initiative of CSE’s Urban Data Analytics Lab. Annual and seasonal trends in PM2.5 concentration were analysed from January 1, 2019, till November 30, 2021--the findings showed that while Delhi’s average PM2.5 concentration during winter was nearly 4.5 times the national safe standard of 60 micrograms per cubic metre, smaller towns such as Agra, Vrindavan and Firozabad fared much worse. “For instance, smaller cities such as Vrindavan, Agra, and Firozabad have a comparatively lower annual average of PM2.5 than Delhi but during the early winter of 2021, their weekly average PM2.5 levels exceeded that of Delhi. While the annual average level of Delhi is 97µg/m³ and that of Agra is 78 µg/m³ -- 20% lower --the weekly average in Agra touched 282µg/m³ and exceeded Delhi’s weekly average of 270µg/m³ by 5%,” said the analysis. Similarly, the weekly average of Vrindavan’s PM2.5 was found to be nearly 286µg/m³ and that of Firozabad 272µg/m³. However, both Noida and Ghaziabad exceeded these levels. While Noida’s weekly average PM2.5 was 292µg/m³, Ghaziabad’s was 360µg/m³.“This analysis has shined a spotlight on [small] cities for us. This shows even smaller cities with lower annual levels record pollution levels that are as bad or even worse than Delhi,” said Anumita Roychowdhury, executive director, research and advocacy, CSE, stating action against pollution was needed across a much larger area.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/pollution-levels-worse-in-small-towns-study-101639691207388.html
17-12-2021||Chandigarh||At 14, Chandigarh sees highest single-day case count since June, tricity count 25||Covid-19 cases continue to be on the upward trend in the tricity, with as many as 25 new cases surfacing on Thursday. With 14 cases, Chandigarh not just had the highest number of cases in the tricity but also recorded its highest single-day count in five months. Panchkula logged six cases while Mohali had five infections on the day.The infections in Chandigarh came in from Sectors 15, 21, 22, 25, 29, 30, 33 and 35, while in Mohali, one case each surfaced in Boothgarh and Dhakoli, while Mohali city had three cases. None of the cities, however, had any fatalities due to the virus.The previous such high was seen in Chandigarh on June 28 when it had 15 cases. Since then, the daily count had seen a dip. The previous high of this month was on December 13 when the UT had 12 cases. For the last 12 days, the tricity has been consistently recording infections in double digits. The tricity’s active infections now stand at 163, with 77 patients still being infected in Chandigarh, 54 in Mohali, and 32 in Panchkula.Chandigarh has so far reported 65,673 positive cases, of which 64,520 have been cured and 1,076 have died. In Mohali, the total cases recorded till date are 69,044. Among these, 67,917 patients have recovered and 1,073 have died. Panchkula’s caseload of 30,886 includes 30,475 recoveries and 379 casualties.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/at-14-chandigarh-sees-highest-single-day-case-count-since-june-tricity-count-25-101639690789430.html
17-12-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh schools, parents mull over online classes amid rising Covid cases||Chandigarh Parents on Thursday expressed their hesitation for sending children to school after a Class 6 student of St Kabir Public School , Sector 26 tested positive for Covid-19.Schools in the city have been running on a hybrid model, with students having the option to pick between online and offline classes. There have, however, been incentives for students who attended offline classes. A parent whose children attend a private school in the city described how the school has given special awards to students who have been coming for offline classes, before adding that the children attending classes online have to deal with glitches and often feel neglected.Discussing the situation for exams, Nitin Goyal, president of the Chandigarh Parents Association (CPA) said, “Looking at the situation, the exams conducted at school level must be taken online. Further for board classes also should look into holding the remaining term one exams online.”While Class 10 exams for both CBSE and ICSE boards have already been completed, Class 12 still has a few pending.Goyal also revealed that some private schools have also made it mandatory to attend offline classes, adding that it was an issue that the UT education department must look into. “While parents are afraid to come forward, whatsapp groups of most big schools all share this sentiment,” he added.Attendance remains highMeanwhile, private schools have insisted that attendance continues to remain high. HS Mamik, president of the Independent School Association (ISA), said, “Our attendance for junior classes has touched 99% and will stay high as parents feel that their children miss out on online classes.”Gurpreet Bakshi, administrator of St Kabir, added, “It remains to be seen whether there is any dip in attendance after we reopen for physical classes from Monday but the online model was successful for us earlier and we can make the hybrid model work. For the term one board exams we are still getting 100% attendance.”Department continues to monitor situationThe UT education department is keeping a close look at the Covid-19 situation. Prabhjot Kaur, district education officer (DEO), said, “We will monitor the cases and the winter vacation may be shifted and school level exams can be rescheduled seeing the situation. The rest we will go by the directions of the higher officials. All Covid protocol is being strictly followed in schools.”Officials further revealed that a total of three students had tested positive for Covid-19 in recent weeks, two of which are from private schools. Protocol is said to have been followed at each of the schools.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-schools-parents-mull-over-online-classes-amid-rising-covid-cases-101639690669377.html
17-12-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: Congress demands CBI inquiry into BJP’s ‘corruption’||The Congress on Thursday demanded a CBI inquiry into the corrupt practices of the BJP-led municipal corporation.Speaking at a press conference, Chandigarh Congress president Subhash Chawla, said, “We will review afresh the 24x7 water supply project and proposal of upgrading the solid waste processing plant. We will take the city residents on board before deciding the future of these projects.”Chawla also said the contract for sanitation of the southern sectors will be terminated if the Congress is voted to power. “A large number of sanitation workers were retrenched in order to award a contract of cleaning the city roads to a big company at exorbitant rates. The company has failed to do its job, but its contract has still been extended,” said Chawla.He alleged that there is not a single civic function which has not become a victim of corrupt practices of BJP councillors in connivance with the certain officials of the Municipal Corporation. Chawla further said that the electricity department of the UT has been running in profit, but was still being privatised.BJP has made no effort to improve UT: RanaIn the six years while in power at Chandigarh MC , BJP has made no efforts for the betterment of the city.This was stated by Sujanpur MLA and vice-president of HP Congress Committee, Rajendra Rana, while addressing an election rally here on Thursday.Rana said that the people of Chandigarh are asking the BJP how a top ranked city in terms of cleanliness has fallen to rank 66. “In spite of increasing the water and sewerage bills by three times, the BJP still has temerity to seek votes,” said Rana.Rana said that the manner in which the BJP has fielded its army of big leaders, including chief ministers of many states, has clearly shown its panic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-congress-demands-cbi-inquiry-into-bjp-s-corruption-101639690489424.html
17-12-2021||Chandigarh||AAP promises 24/7 water supply, a slew of freebies to Chandigarh, if voted to power in MC||Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) released its election manifesto with 23 “guarantees” for the upcoming Chandigarh municipal corporation elections slated for December 24.Fighting its first Chandigarh MC poll, the party has promised a host of freebies to the city voters. The party’s Chandigarh in-charge and Delhi MLA Jarnail Singh while talking about the 23 guarantees, appealed to the people to give the party a chance after repeatedly trying Congress and BJP. Singh reiterated that the party’s “Delhi Model” would be implemented in the city.The party has promised to provide free drinking water up to 20,000 litres to every family per month. Water will be provided 24 hours a day, party claimed.Free parking will be provided in all markets of Chandigarh and community parking will be created in the residential area.Free education will be given in primary schools and new schools will be built. A library will be made in each ward for the children to read and programmes like ‘Business Blasters’ will also be run to inculcate business understanding in children, said Singh.Mohalla clinics will be built on the lines of Delhi. Along with that, more than 200 types of tests, medicines will also be available free of cost, reads the manifesto.“AAP will reduce the increased taxes and no new tax will be levied. Tax of EWS houses will be reduced to minimum. House tax will be waived for houses worth less than 2.5 lakh,” assured Singh.Party’s election committee chairman Chander Mukhi Sharma, said, “The party will tap into alternative modes of revenue generation to reduce tax burden on the city residents.”The party has also promised modern machines for garbage collection and garbage disposal. Door step delivery of services of services under the corporation will be started in Chandigarh also. The broker mafia will be eliminated.The AAP has entered the city’s civic poll fray by putting up candidates on all the 35 seats.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/aap-promises-24-7-water-supply-a-slew-of-freebies-to-chandigarh-if-voted-to-power-in-mc-101639690069376.html
17-12-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh should lead in achieving carbon neutrality: Piyush Goyal||Piyush Goyal, Union minister for industries and commerce, on Thursday said that Chandigarh should set an example and lead in carbon neutrality.He was addressing a intellectuals’ meeting at Law Bhawan in Chandigarh, in which the representatives of over 30 organisations took part. The minister said that Chandigarh has kept evolving with time and maintained its identity. He said, “The world is facing a challenge of climate change. Chandigarh should come forward and set an example by becoming a carbon neutral city, which can be a loud message not only to the country but to the world as well.”Carbon neutrality means having a balance between emitting carbon and absorbing carbon from the atmosphere in carbon sinks.He said that Chandigarh will become a role model for the entire country and urged the intellectuals’ section of the city to play a constructive and creative role in leading the country. “Every time I came to Chandigarh, I went back much wiser to the ground realities and needs of people and different professional sections of the society, ‘’ he said, while referring to his previous visits to the city, adding that the city has a high level of professional integrity and competency.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-should-lead-in-achieving-carbon-neutrality-piyush-goyal-101639689769475.html
17-12-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: Purse carrying ₹20,000 stolen from parked SUV||A hotel owner reported a theft of a purse carrying ₹20,700, from his SUV parked in the back lane of Sector-7, Chandigarh, on Tuesday.Complainant, Hemant Sachdeva, a hotel owner said the thieves smashed the glass of his Tata Safari’s left window and took away the purse, carrying ₹20,700 and some important documents. This is the 10th such incident reported in 7 weeks in different parts of the city, and police have so far failed to arrest anyone involved in these crimes. A case under Section 379 (theft) of the Indian Penal Code was registered at the Sector 26 police station in Chandigarh. Police are scanning closed-circuit television camera footage in the area for clues.MORE TRICITY NEWS IN BRIEFSHC Bar body elections today  The election for the executive committee of Punjab and Haryana High Court Bar Association (PHHCBA) will take place on Friday. The election committee chairman, senior advocate BS Rana, said voting will start at 9:30 am and will continue till 4 pm. The counting will also take place on Friday and commence at 5 pm. There are a total of 4,075 voters this year for the polls. HTC PU offers to setup research centre on Hindu epics Panjab University (PU) has made an offer to the Punjab government to set up a research centre on Hindu epics - Ramayana, Mahabharat and Bhagavad Gita. The announcement for the same was recently made by CM Charanjit Singh Channi. CU signs MoU to offer new certificationsChandigarh University (CU) has signed an MoU with Zell Education to offer a range of international financial and accounting qualifications. The step has been taken to prepare the students by equipping them with in-demand skills and internationally recognised certifications. C-DAC celebrates 50th Vijay Divas The Centre for Development and Advanced Computing (C-DAC), Mohali, on Thursday commemorated the 50 years of Vijay Divas by holding various sporting and cultural events. Participants performed various folk dances such as bhangra and paid tribute to the armed forces by singing patriotic songs.Seminar on additive manufacturing held at PEC The departments of applied sciences and mechanical engineering of Punjab Engineering College (PEC) on Thursday jointly organised a national seminar on “additive manufacturing trends and opportunities”. The theme of the seminar was in line with the country’s ambitious plan for advanced manufacturing, where additive manufacturing is one of the main pillars. Bank of India pensioners hold meeting The Bank of India Pensioners and Retirees Association, (BOIPARA), Chandigarh unit, organised its quarterly meeting on Thursday. About 75 members attended the meeting and issues related to pension updation and medical insurance were deliberated upon. A health awareness programme was also organised by the unit, where Dr Santosh Kumar, professor of urology at PGIMER, addressed the gathering and discussed issues related to prostate gland and its treatment.Ambala: Counterfeit cosmetics worth ₹5 lakh recoveredThe Drug Control Bureau and Haryana police on Thursday arrested two men with duplicate shampoos and cosmetics worth ₹5 lakh at a factory in Ambala Cantonment’s Mahesh Nagar Area in a joint raid. The arrested have been identified as Bhupendra and Sitaram, residents of the Defence Colony and Sonia Colony respectively. They were arrested by a CIA-2 unit. “The duo arrested was involved in manufacturing these products in the name of Hindustan Unilever and selling these products in the market without a license,” a Bureau statement read.Panchkula man held for supplying armsThe police on Wednesday night arrested a man for allegedly supplying a pistol and four live cartridges to two individuals in July earlier this year. The arrested has been identified as Gaurav, alias Roda, a resident of Barwala village. Pvt lab staffers protestLodging their protest against the National Commission for Allied and Healthcare Professionals Act, aimed at constituting a state and allied health council, the Joint Association of Independent Medical Laboratory and Allied Professionals (JAIMLAP) on Thursday commenced an indefinite protest against Department of Medical Education and Research (DMER) outside the latter’s office in Sector 69. Speaking on the issue, Rajan Bector, general secretary of the association, said, “We are not against such an act but the state government is bringing it after 74 years of independence neglecting the services we have given since then.”Bank staffers oppose privatisation of PSBsA two-day nationwide strike called by the United Forum of Bank Unions (UFBU) to oppose the privatisation of two public sector banks started on Thursday. Bank employees held a demonstration in front of the State Bank of India office in Sector 17 to oppose the move. Sanjay Sharma, convenor of UFBU, tricity, said that there is an argument that public sector banks are not doing well and hence to ensure better efficiency, they have to be privatised. However, multiple private banks have failed and closed down in the past due to mismanagement, he argued. The protest will continue on Friday.Woman’s purse stolen from shopA woman on Thursday reported the theft of a purse from her workplace in Sector 30. In her complaint, Deachen Spalzes, who works as a sales person at a shop in Sector 30, alleged that a group of women posing as customers stole her purse, which contained ₹20,000 in cash and other important documents, on December 14. According to available information, the CCTV footage shows one of the women picking up the victim’s purse while she was attending to other members of the group.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-purse-carrying-20-000-stolen-from-parked-suv-101639689714602.html
17-12-2021||Chandigarh||IT jobs, removing lal dora limits, on top of agenda for BJP for Chandigarh||Creation of 1 lakh jobs in the city’s IT sector, leasehold to freehold at affordable rates, regularisation of contractual employees, removing the limits of Lal Dora and need-based changes will be top on the agenda, the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) promised on Thursday.In its two-page “vision document”, released by the Union industries and commerce minister Piyush Goyal here on Thursday, the BJP made a mix of old and new promises in a bid to retain power. Goyal, said, “Knowledge-based industries of 21st century like artificial intelligence, robotics, machine learning and clean energy will be promoted to create more than 1 lakh jobs for the youth. We will set up incubation centres to support different kinds of startups.”All contract workers will be regularised as per Supreme Court’s Uma Devi judgement, added Goyal.Concerning village development, the BJP leader emphasised, “No municipal tax will be levied in villages without completion of their development projects. Ownership rights will be given to those living in the houses of EWS colonies built under the rehabilitation scheme.”The party’s manifesto, said Goyal, has been formulated based on more than 80,000 suggestions received from the city residents under the party’s campaign, “Mera Chandigarh - Mera Sujhav”, which it ran between November 27 and December 13.On the issue of opposition banking on inflation as an election issue, Goyal, said, “In the wake of the Covid pandemic, inflation is a world-wide phenomenon as supply chains got disrupted, and commodity and fuel prices rose. But in India, we have managed to keep inflation under control and now its declining.”Unfulfilled LS Promises in MC manifestoThe party has included many of its unfulfilled promises made in the 2019 Lok Sabha elections in this year’s MC manifesto.The party has assured that ownership rights will be given by eliminating the Lal Dora limit in villages on the lines of Haryana and all the construction outside it will be regularised.The houses, commercial and industrial buildings aligned under the Chandigarh Housing Board, estate office, will be regularised.The policy pertaining to converting all the commercial, industrial, and housing societies of the city from leasehold to freehold at concessional rates will be introduced while unearned profit policy will be terminated, said Goyal.The manifesto reassured that city youth will be given the priority in jobs apart from OBC reservation which will be implemented here under the constitutional clause.The party reiterated it would completely remove the garbage from Dadumajra dumping ground by installing highly advanced garbage processing plant.Under the employee housing scheme, housing will be provided at affordable rates, the party has reassured.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/it-jobs-removing-lal-dora-limits-on-top-of-agenda-for-bjp-for-chandigarh-101639689410239.html
17-12-2021||Chandigarh||PGIMER: Only 50% doctors on National Digital Health Mission portal||The UT health department on Wednesday asked the Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER) to speed up the registration of doctors for the National Digital Health Mission portal.As per the PGIMER’s own data, around 50% of doctors have registered on the portal for the centre’s ambitious health project.“In a recent review meeting at union level, it was desired that the registration of doctors on NDHM portal has not been achieved up to optimum level in UT, Chandigarh. This is because not all the doctors of PGIMER have been registered so far. Institute must take required action towards completion of 100% registration”, the health department’s notice to PGIMER read.Explaining the delay, Dr SS Pandav, the nodal officer of the project at PGIMER, said, “The project is delayed as the institute has several mobile doctors. A number of doctors leave and join every month. We are organizing registration camps in each department and providing technical support to ensure timely completion.”Dr Suman Singh, director of the health services, meanwhile, stressed on the importance of completing the process, saying, “Doctors’ registration at the portal is necessary as it will allow people who have already got their health IDs to use the facility.”GMCH-32 numbers also lowThe UT health department also highlighted GMCH-32’s low numbers, saying only 35% of the doctors have registered. Elaborating on the issue, Dr Sudhir Garg, medical superintendent at GMCH-32, said, “As per hospital’s data, around 90% of the doctors registered at the national portal. Initially, some doctors had not uploaded certain documents that later became necessary and only 35% of the registrations were regarded as complete. We are asking doctors to complete the process quickly.”46% of UT’s population register for health IDsHaving launched the National Digital Health Mission in August last year, the UT health department has already made the health ID cards of over 4.93 lakh residents of Chandigarh, which accounts for around 46% of the total population. BOX: Through digital health IDs, issued under the Ayushman Bharat Digital Mission (AB-DM), people will allow the registered doctors and medical institutes (both from government and private facilities) to access all of their medical records, including digital test reports, medications, and diagnoses. This will also provide doctors access to their patients’ whole medical history in one place - but only with their agreement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/pgimer-only-50-doctors-on-national-digital-health-mission-portal-101639689060764.html
17-12-2021||Chandigarh||At 5.4°C, Chandigarh shivers on coldest night of season so far||After hovering around 8 to 9°C for the past few days, the minimum temperature plunged to 5.4°C on Thursday, making it the coldest December night of the season so far, Met officials said. The mercury meter is set to dip further by 2 to 3°C in the coming days. IMD Chandigarh director Manmohan Singh said, “Earlier a feeble western disturbance had kept the area relatively warm but now it has started getting colder. Minimum temperature will drop by 2-3 degrees now and there is a chance of cold wave conditions in the city on December 18 and 19.” A cold wave is declared when the minimum temperature is below 10°C and goes over 4.5 degrees below normal. On Thursday, it was 1.2 degrees below normal.Some relief can be expected in about a week’s time. A stronger Western disturbance is likely to affect the city on December 24 and 25, bringing light rain to the city. Foggy conditions will continue especially at night and visibility is likely to fall down to 1 kms due to moderate fog.Maximum temperature fell down from 21.2 degrees on Wednesday to 20.4 degrees on Thursday. In the next three days maximum temperature will remain around 19 degrees.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/at-5-4-c-chandigarh-shivers-on-coldest-night-of-season-so-far-101639688989263.html
17-12-2021||Chandigarh||Job scams: INLD’s youth wings stage protest in Panchkula||youth wing of the Indian National Lok Dal (INLD) and the INLD Student Organisation (ISO) on Thursday carried out a protest against the state government, focusing on corruption and the Haryana Public Service Commission (HPSC) recruitment scam.Led by Arjun Chautala, son of former leader of opposition in the state assembly Abhay Chautala, and Karan Chautala, party leader, hundreds of people protested against the government. They marched towards the HPSC office, Sector 4, where they were stopped by the police.The members of INLD and ISO were taken into custody and were made to sit in buses.Arjun Chautala, president of the ISO, addressed the youth, saying, “The current government is selling government jobs. There is so much unrest among the youth because of this corruption. In the last seven years, over nine times papers were leaked. No one in the government got to know how the papers were leaked. It shows how top ministers in the government are involved.” Karan Chautala, meanwhile, accused the government of not fulfilling its lofty promises. “Give us the name of one company which gave 75% reservation to the Haryana residents?” he asked.Roadways employees, anganwadi workers continue protestsIn the adjoining Sector 5, the staff of Haryana Roadways, which were recruited in 2018 during the strike of regular employees, pressed for regularisation. The employees held a protest at the Sector 5 ground and are expected to march all the way to the Vidhan Sabha, if their demands are not met.The anganwadi workers, meanwhile, also continued their protest at Sector 5.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/job-scams-inld-s-youth-wings-stage-protest-in-panchkula-101639688751937.html
17-12-2021||Chandigarh||DAV College-10 dominates PU athletics meet||The contingent representing DAV College Sector 10 dominated the Panjab University Inter College Annual Athletics Meet, 2021-22, taking home 25 gold, 14 silver and eight bronze medals.Hardeep Singh and Amandeep Singh Dhaliwal, who represented India at the Nairobi World Junior Athletics Championship in August, won gold medals in 400m hurdles and shot-put events respectively.Star athlete Paramdeep Mor broke the 5-year-old record in the 20km walk race, with the timing of 1:21.19. Ankit Deswal also shattered the 14-year-old meet record in the 10,000m race, clocking an impressive timing of 30:36.66. Sandeep Kumar and Narsingh Patel were amongst the others to get their hands on new meet records. In the women’s competition, Gurdeep Kaur and Jasleen Kaur broke two of the meet’s long-standing records. While Gurdeep Kaur clocked a timing of 14.50 in the 100m hurdles race to break the 28-year-old record, Jasleen Kaur bettered 26-year-old mark for the 20km walk race with a timing of 1::38.15 Sec.Mor and Jasleen Kaur were named the best athletes in the men’s and women’s competition respectively.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/dav-college-10-dominates-pu-athletics-meet-101639688569678.html
17-12-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: 23-year-old woman raped at her house by mason||A 23-year-old woman was raped by a mason at her house in Sector 29, Chandigarh, on Thursday morning.The accused had been hired for some construction work at the house.At the time of the incident, the victim’s parents were out of station and she was alone at home. As per the police, the accused, identified as Sanjiv Yadav, was drunk at the time.Later, the girl’s brother and some neighbours caught the accused and thrashed him before handing him over to the police. The accused used to stay with a dhobi at the local bus stand, said police. A case under Section 376 (rape) of the Indian Penal Code was registered at the Industrial Area police station of Chandigarh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-23-year-old-woman-raped-at-her-house-by-mason-101639688449275.html
17-12-2021||Chandigarh||Ambala DC bans photography, videography near IAF base||To avert breach of confidentiality, deputy commissioner Vikram has announced a ban on photography and videography of aircrafts and other security apparatus at the Indian Air Force (IAF) base in Ambala Cantonment, officials said on Thursday. In an order issued on Saturday, the DC said that he has been informed by the superintendent of police that residents of the colonies on the west side of the airbase are taking photos and videos of the landing and take-off of aircrafts. “Due to this, the confidentiality of the Air Force Station is breached and anti-social elements ran take undue advantage of any kind of untoward incident,” the order states. Vikram added that the decentralised airspace has to be regulated in view of the recent episodes of the misuse of drones and other media devices. Moreover, the director general of civil aviation (DGCA) has also provided the guidelines to regulate its use, he said. “Keeping in view the security situation apart from concerns of threat to privacy, nuisance and trespass, it is extremely dangerous to let unmanned aerial vehicles (UAVs) wander around in the skies within the territorial jurisdiction of Ambala,” the order further reads.The order will not be applied to police officers or other public servants. Any person found guilty of the violation of this order shall be prosecuted and punished under Section 188 of the Indian Penal Code. In August, the DC had banned the sale and usage of drones in view of terror incidents in Punjab using the device. It is pertinent to mention here that the IAF air base is home to mighty Rafale jets that were inducted in August last year with the revival of 17 Squadron of the “Golden Arrows” and already existing Jaguar aircrafts at the 14 Squadron of “The Fighting Bulls”.During the touchdown of the first batch of Rafale last year, several photos and videos were shared by the residents of nearby regions on social media, despite a ban by the administration.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ambala-dc-bans-photography-videography-near-iaf-base-101639688391883.html
17-12-2021||Chandigarh||Pay scales row: Amid teachers’ strike, PU postpones semester exams||In view of the ongoing teachers’ protest over the non-implementation of revised UGC pay scales, Panjab University (PU) on Thursday decided to postpone the forthcoming exams and start the winter break from December 18. While the practical exams were earlier scheduled to begin from Friday, the theory papers were to start from December 22 in PU and affiliated colleges. “Due to administrative reasons, PU has postponed all undergraduate and postgraduate odd-semester exams. Fresh dates for these exams would be notified at a later date,” said the varsity in an official communique.Meanwhile, the winter break, which was earlier scheduled to start from January 28, will now be from December 18 to 25. Teachers across five universities, 48 colleges and 145 aided colleges in Chandigarh and Punjab, under the banner of Punjab Federation of University and College Teachers Organisations (PFUCTO), had declared an indefinite protest on December 1 to demand immediate implementation of the revised scales as per the seventh pay commission and withdrawal of Punjab government’s decision to delink the pay scales from UGC.The protest had disrupted academic activities in Punjab and Chandigarh. Members of Panjab University Teachers Association (PUTA) also met the controller of examination on Thursday, requesting him to postpone the semester exams. Later the teachers’ body said they appreciate the support given by the university authorities.Panjab University Teachers Association (PUTA) president Mritunjay Kumar, said, “We do not wish to disrupt the exams but are forced to suspend the academic activities as our legitimate demands are not being fulfilled by the Punjab government. The government should immediately resolve the matter so that students do not suffer.”Meanwhile, the teachers continued their agitation in Chandigarh. PUTA held a protest at Gate Number 1 of the varsity campus while teachers of DAV College, Sector 10, also held a protest.
17-12-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab polls: Congress tells ticket seekers to submit applications by December 20||The Punjab Congress on Thursday kickstarted the process for selection of its candidates for the assembly elections in the state, asking ticket aspirants to submit their applications by December 20, even as the state election committee of the party held its first meeting here. Punjab Congress general secretary Yoginder Pal Dhingra said that all those keen to contest the upcoming polls would have to fill and give their applications with all relevant documents. “The application forms are available with district president and working presidents and on the Facebook page of the Congress. No application fee will be charged with the application,” he said, crediting state Congress chief Navjot Singh Sidhu with the decision to waive off the fee. In the 2017 assembly elections, the state unit had taken application fee of ₹10,000 from each aspirant. As per the decision, all prospective candidates, including sitting MLAs, will be required to submit their applications. Sonia to take a final callThe state election committee (PEC) headed by Sidhu, which has been tasked with shortlisting candidates, passed a resolution vesting all powers with regard to finalising the candidates with Congress president Sonia Gandhi. When the resolution was proposed, Punjab Youth Congress president Brinder Dhillon said the candidate selection should be left to the high command because it takes decision in larger interests of the party. “Dhillon said that Channi may not have had the support among the MLAs for the chief minister’s position but the high command selected him and they also selected Sidhu as the state chief and both are doing good job,” said a party leader who was present in the meeting. The PYC chief also sought due representation for women and youth leaders. ‘Generals should take on generals’Punjab Congress working president and MLA Kuljit Singh Nagra suggested that party’s generals (senior leaders) should take on general of other parties instead of focusing on their seats, said sources. The suggestion drew a quip from the chief minister who said that the MLA was probably angling to for a face-off with (SAD chief Sukhbir Singh) Badal. To which, the MLA said that he was willing to contest from any constituency decided by the party, reiterating that generals should fight against generals, they added. After the meeting, Sidhu said the committee passed the resolution giving all rights for selection of candidates to the Congress president. “We will also fight the elections unitedly, giving responsibility to each worker as per their capability. Tickets will be allocated on merit,” he said. Chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi, campaign committee chairman Sunil Jakhar, Punjab affairs in-charge Harish Chaudhary, former chief minister Rajinder Kaur Bhattal, former state Congress presidents Shamsher Singh Dullo and HS Hanspal were among those who attended the meeting. Screening committee chairman Ajay Maken and two other members will meet members of the state election committee, ticket seekers and others over the next three days. “Along with my colleagues Sh. Krishna Allavaru and Sh. Chandan Yadav – as an exercise of the Screening Committee – I would be meeting aspiring Congress workers at Punjab Congress Bhawan, Chandigarh,” Maken tweeted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-polls-congress-tells-ticket-seekers-to-submit-applications-by-december-20-101639688209288.html
17-12-2021||Chandigarh||Ambala: Residents oppose setting up of meat processing unit in Kanjnu||Several residents of Kanjnu and adjoining villages on Thursday surrounded the office of Radaur’s sub-divisional magistrate (SDM) to protest against the setting up of a meat processing unit in their village.The villagers argued that the proposed slaughterhouse goes against their religious sentiments and will adversely affect public health, a charge denied by the unit’s Yamunanagar-based owners.The villagers, who also received support from farmer unions, met Dr Inder Jeet, SDM, and gave a month’s ultimatum for withdrawing the NOC issued for the unit.Speaking on the issue, the SDM said, “A committee has already been constituted by DC Parth Gupta to look into the matter that will submit its report in a month and the decision will be taken accordingly. A case on the issue is also pending before the Punjab and Haryana High Court.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ambala-residents-oppose-setting-up-of-meat-processing-unit-in-kanjnu-101639688149665.html
17-12-2021||Chandigarh||2022 Punjab polls: Zero tolerance for partisan role, CEC Sushil Chandra warns officials||Blurb: Chandigarh Citing complaints of frequent transfers of police and civil administration officials from political parties, chief election commissioner (CEC) Sushil Chandra on Thursday cautioned that any government official found playing a partisan role will face action. Chandra said an officer will be transferred the same day if there is complaint against him or her, while reiterating zero tolerance for inducements and abuse of official machinery during the 2022 Punjab polls. Addressing a press conference here, after meeting all the stakeholders engaged in the election process and taking stock of the arrangements, he said instructions have already been issued to the state government on November 1 that transfer and posting of officials, especially those involved in the revision of electoral rolls and other poll preparations, should be done only after permission from the election commission. He said representatives of the political parties have requested the commission to take stern measures to create a conducive atmosphere for free-and-fair elections. “Most political parties voiced concern regarding partisan behaviour by the local administration. Some political parties also complained that the local administration was not granting permission for holding rallies at designated government grounds in a free manner. They also raised the issue of law and order situation and the use of cash, liquor, drugs and other freebies during the forthcoming elections,” Chandra said. The commission has asked the state excise department to keep a vigil on the movement of liquor stock, he said. “The NCB director will be asked to check the flow of drugs during the elections. The income tax department, directorate of revenue intelligence (DRI) and enforcement directorate (ED) have been told to form joint teams to check flow of cash,” he said. Chandra who was accompanied by election commissioners Rajiv Kumar and Anup Chandra Pandey, and state chief electoral officer S Karuna Raju, announced that keeping the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic in mind, the number of voters per polling booth has been reduced from 1,500 to 1,200. “1,478 more polling booths have been added, taking the total number to 24,689. We will also ensure voters verifiable paper audit trail (VVPAT) machines and webcasting at all booths,” he announced. Referring to the polling percentage (77.4%) in 2017, the CEC said efforts will be made to better the number by focusing on booths where voting figures have fallen in the previous elections. He also assured adequate deployment of the central forces during the elections, underlining the concern for Punjab being a border state. “We will assess the situation to decide the deployment,” Chandra said. Chandra said the commission was identifying sensitive polling booths and an action plan will be unveiled accordingly. He also said fake news on the social media will also be under the EC glare. --- IN NUMBERS 2.02 crore: Total voters 2.74 lakh: New voters 902: Gender ratio (per 1,000 males) 24,689: Total polling booths January 5, 2022: Last date for revision of electoral rolls March 27, 2022: Tenure of present assembly ends 
17-12-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh Police honoured for implementation of criminal tracking system||Chandigarh Police has secured the first position among union territories of India (except Delhi) in the implementation of the crime and criminal tracking network and system (CCTNS). The Chandigarh Police was felicitated during a virtual conference on the good practices of CCTNS and ICJS held by National Crime Bureau, ministry of home affairs, New Delhi, on Thursday. The award was presented to Praveer Kumar Ranjan, DGP, Chandigarh and Kuldeep Singh Chahal, SSP Chandigarh (nodal officer, CCTNS) by Ajay Kumar Mishra, minister of state (home), government of India. CCTNS is a mission mode project under the national e-governance plan of government of India. It aims at creating a comprehensive and integrated system for investigation of crime and has been implemented and functioning successfully since 2013 in Chandigarh. Chandigarh policemen to visit other UTs as part of exchange programmeAs part of an exchange program, part of a larger memorandum of understanding (MoU) between union territories (UT), five police personnel from the city would visit Dadra-and-Nagar Haveli and Daman-and-Diu, to get hands-on experience of police proceedings in the regions. The MoU, which includes the three UTs, was signed under Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s pet project “Ek Bharat Shreshtha Bharat”. The police personnel up to the rank of inspector are expected to take part in the exchange programme. Personnel from the Chandigarh police will visit the other UT, getting assigned to the local police stations and vice versa.“Their attachments would be for 25 days, and every month five people would be sent,” a senior police officer said on Thursday. The Chandigarh police are looking for volunteers from the police force who would be willing to join the programme. The police department is also planning to appoint an internal nodal officer for supervising the effective implementation.“The idea is to learn best practices from police in other parts of the country and imbibe those practices here,” Manoj Kumar Meena, superintendent of police (Headquarters), said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarhpolice-honoured-for-implementation-of-criminal-tracking-system-101639687975086.html
17-12-2021||Chandigarh||Punjabi film devp council to be established: Channi||Punjab chief minister Charanjit Singh on Thursday announced that a Punjabi Film Development Council will be set up to promote Punjabi language and culture.He was speaking during an award function organised at Chandigarh University, Gharuan, to honour Punjabi actors, singers, musicians and background artists for their contributions.The CM Channi said that the proposal to establish the council will be cleared in the coming cabinet meeting. He said that it is the need of hour to promote the glorious cultural heritage of the state through films, which is one of the most effective ways of communication.During the function organised by Punjabi Film, Music and Television Guild Society and Punjab Tourism Department, the CM honoured Punjabi folk singers late Gurmeet Bawa and Sardool Sikander with “Shan-E-Punjab tribute Award” and musician Charanjit Ahuja and actor Gaggu Gill with “Shan--E-Punjab lifetime achievement awards”.Those present on the occasion included Sidhu Mooselwala, Gurpreet Ghuggi, Karamjit Anmol and actors Yograj Singh, Upasna Singh, Satinder Satti, Ranjit Bawa and Master Saleem. Prominent Punjabi singers Gippi Grewal, Sunanda Sharma and Ranjit Bawa who performed on the occasion were also honoured by the chief minister. Others who were honoured included actor Dev Kharod and singers Gurlej Akhtar and Kulwinder Kaily.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjabi-film-devp-council-to-be-established-channi-101639687790194.html
17-12-2021||Chandigarh||Tribunal awards ₹12.8 lakh to 2020 road accident victim’s family||The Motor Accident Claims Tribunal on Thursday awarded a compensation of ₹12.88 lakhs to the family of Ujjagar Singh, a retired inspection officer at the Director General Health Services, Haryana, who had died in a road accident in 2020.Bhago Devi, the deceased’s 57-year-old widow who resides in Bunga village with her two sons, had moved the Tribunal against Rajnish Kumar, a Sector 26-resident who was allegedly driving the car that caused the accident, and the Excise and Taxation Commissioner, Haryana, the owner of the vehicle in question.According to the petition, Singh’s motorcycle was hit by a speeding Swift Dzire, allegedly being driven by Kumar, at Bandar Ghati, near the Morni intersection on July 3, 2020. Singh was taken to Civil Hospital, Sector 6, where he was declared dead on arrival.Kumar, however, refuted the charge, saying that the accident outlined in the petition never happened.The second responded, the vehicle’s owner, meanwhile, requested for proof of the averments made in the petition in his reply. Both respondents further requested for a dismissal of the claim petitionHowever, after going through the arguments, Vani Gopal Sharma-led tribunal awarded ₹12.88 lakhs compensation to the family, with an interest at the rate of 6% per annum from the date of filing of the petition till its realisation.The tribunal declared all respondents as jointly and severally liable to pay the compensation, with the exception of the car’s insurer, which was indemnified.The car’s insurer, the United India Insurance Company Limited, had earlier stated in their reply that the driver of the vehicle did not possess a valid driving licence, while the owner had no registration certificate, route permit and fitness certificate, both of which amounted to violation of their policy’s terms and conditions.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/tribunal-awards-12-8-lakh-to-2020-road-accident-victim-s-family-101639687610078.html
17-12-2021||Chandigarh||SAD will conquer all forces to form next govt in Punjab: Sukhbir Badal||Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) president Sukhbir Singh Badal on Thursday said his party will defeat the three governments it is pitted against — the BJP-led central government, AAP-led Delhi government and the Congress-led Punjab government. “Punjabis will not let outsiders govern them and repose trust in the SAD which represents the regional aspirations. Just like Mamata Banerjee’s success in West Bengal, we will also defeat all the forces pitted against us to emerge victorious in 2022,” Sukhbir told mediapersons after addressing an impressive rally in favour of party candidate Raj Kumar Gupta in Sujanpur. Earlier, Sukhbir’s roadshow received a warm welcome upon entry at Sujanpur. He said “empty chairs” at events being presided over by chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi were a testament to the popularity of both Channi and the Congress party. “The countdown of the Congress has started and the frustration is evident from the infighting,” Sukhbir said. The SAD president also asked AAP convener Arvind Kejriwal why did his government file an affidavit in the Supreme Court seeking the closure of four power thermal plants in Punjab. He said the Delhi government had similarly filed affidavits, demanding registration of criminal cases against Punjab farmers for burning crop residue. Asserting that the SAD will never ask Punjabis to fill forms as the Congress had done earlier and the AAP is doing now, Sukhbir said, “We have always stood by all commitments made in our election manifesto. Be it free power to farmers or welfare schemes like Shagun and the Aata Dal, all were implemented immediately after government formation.” The SAD president also participated in a bike rally from Pathankot to Sujanpur. He also addressed gatherings at Naushehra Majha Singh in Batala at party leader Ramandeep Singh’s residence in support of the party’s Batala candidate Sucha Singh Chhotepur. Later, he addressed gatherings at Dinanagar to muster support for BSP candidate Kamaljit Chawla. He was accompanied by senior leaders Anil Joshi and Gurcharan Singh Babbehali. He also visited Shradha Ashram at Shahpur Kandi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/sad-will-conquer-all-forces-to-form-next-govt-in-punjab-sukhbir-badal-101639687491899.html
17-12-2021||Chandigarh||Dera Bassi: Three of NRI family among four killed as cars collide||Four persons, including two NRI women and a four-month-old boy, were killed after a recklessly driven Swift car jumped the divider and entered the opposite lane, before ramming head-on into an Ertiga, carrying the NRI family, on the national highway near Janetpur village in Dera Bassi, around 1.15 am on Thursday. The family was returning from Faridabad after attending their younger son’s wedding when the mishap took place. The deceased have been identified as Harjeet Kaur Dhami, 56, her daughter-in-law Sharanjeet Kaur, 33, four-month-old grandson Ajaib Singh, all travelling in the Ertiga, and Gaurav Kumar of Panipat, who was travelling in the Swift car.Dera Bassi station house officer (SHO) Kulbir Singh said the family lives in Sector 80, Mohali, and had hired a Maruti Ertiga cab to take them to Faridabad on Tuesday. When they were returning to Mohali on the intervening night of Wednesday and Thursday, a Swift car, bearing the registration number HR-42E-7507, crashed into their vehicle. Davinder Singh Dhami, whose wife Harjeet Kaur and other family members died in the mishap, said Swift car was being rashly driven, and after the collision, both vehicles somersaulted multiple times on the road. Dhami said he was sitting on the front seat with the driver while his wife Harjeet Kaur, daughter-in-law Sharanjit Kaur Dhami, granddaughter Harliv Kaur and grandson Ajaib Singh were at the back. All of them were taken to Indus Hospital in Dera Bassi, where doctors declared Harjeet Kaur, Sharanjit Kaur, and Ajaib Singh dead on arrival. The rest of the injured were referred to Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research. Harliv has suffered a fracture in her leg and is undergoing treatment at a private hospital in Sector 33, Chandigarh. The cab driver and Dhami suffered minor injuries. As per the police, the Swift driver, Hritik Bhalla, a resident of Haryana, has been booked under Section 304A (death by negligence), 279 (rash driving), 337 (rash and negligent act), 338 (grievous hurt), 427 (mischief causing damage of amount of fifty rupees) of the Indian Penal Code, on the statement of Dhami. Bhalla is currently on the run, said the SHO. The bodies have been handed over to the victim’s kin after post-mortem examination.Sardul Singh, the victims’ neighbour in Sector 80, said the family stayed in Brampton, Canada, and had come to India in the first week of December for their son’s wedding. The newlywed couple was in another car.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/dera-bassi-three-of-nri-family-among-four-killed-as-cars-collide-101639687490364.html
17-12-2021||Chandigarh||Chattopadhyaya replaces Sahota as officiating DGP of Punjab||In a late-night reshuffle, the Punjab government appointed Sidharth Chattopadhyaya as officiating director general of police replacing IPS Sahota. The development comes as a surprise as Sahota is considered close to chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi and continued on the post even after pressure from Punjab Pradesh Congress Committee chief Navjot Sidhu to remove him. Along with his new assignment, Chattopadhyaya, a 1986-batch IPS officer, will continue to hold the charge of chief director, vigilance bureau. Sahota will continue as DGP, PAP, Jalandhar. Sahota, officials, privy to the matter, say has himself stepped down expressing his inability to “follow some orders which the government wants him to execute under pressure from the certain political quarters.” Interestingly, the Union Public Service Commission has set October 5 as the cut-off date with criterion of six months of remaining service for the selection of the state police chief. This has put Chattopadhyaya and 1988-batch IPS officer Rohit Chaudhary out of the DGP race. The much-awaited meeting of the UPSC for shortlisting a panel of three officers from the state government’s list of 10 has been scheduled on December 21 in New Delhi. According to the Supreme Court guidelines set for the selection of a DGP, only those officers with at least six months of service left will be considered for the job. 
17-12-2021||Chandigarh||Charuni demands immediate action against Ajay Mishra||Farm leader Gurnam Singh Charuni on Thursday demanded immediate action against Union minister of state for home Ajay Mishra Teni over the involvement of his son in the Lakhimpur Kheri violence of October 3.“The Union minister must be arrested immediately as he is not above the law. Did we elect politicians for our protection or for the murder of innocents?” Charuni told mediapersons.Charuni was in Karnal on Thursday to pay tributes to Sant Baba Ram Singh, who had committed suicide at the Singhu border. He hailed Singh’s sacrifice in support of farmers’ agitation.Without naming anybody, Charuni raised questions over farmer leaders objecting to his decision to contest polls: “The elected leaders are killing people and still we say that we are apolitical. I think it is also a crime if you elect people with criminal backgrounds.”He said the government was framing policies for the corporate houses and industrialists, and now they were left with no other option but to enter politics, as political reforms were needed in the country. Charuni clarified that he will not contest the Punjab assembly polls, but he will field candidates: “Mai khud chunav nahi lad raha hu, magar ladwa raha hu.” He also made it clear that he will not use the name of Samyukt Kisan Morcha, an umbrella body of several farmer unions of the country, in the Punjab elections, as the morcha leaders had announced that they will not allow anybody to use its name for polls.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/charuni-demands-immediate-action-against-ajay-mishra-101639684068858.html
17-12-2021||Chandigarh||Speeding car snuffs out two lives in Panipat||Two youths were killed after a speeding car hit their motorcycle on National Highway-44 near Samalkha in Panipat on Thursday. Police said the victims, Vineet Kumar, 20, and Neeraj, 21, were residents of Samalkha. On Thursday morning, they were going to Ganaur on a motorcycle when a car hit them near Mega Mall. They were rushed to a hospital, but were declared brought dead by the doctors. The car driver fled on foot after abandoning the vehicle.“The driver has been booked under Sections 304-A (causing death by negligence), 337 (causing hurt by act endangering life or personal safety of others) and 279 (rash driving) of the Indian Penal Code. The car has been impounded. The bodies have been handed over to the family members after autopsy and further investigation is on to nab the car driver,” said Vijay Kumar, the investigating officer.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/speeding-car-snuffs-out-two-lives-in-panipat-101639684015657.html
17-12-2021||Chandigarh||Haryana assembly session starts today: Congress set to raise storm over recruitment scam||The winter session of the Haryana Vidhan Sabha, beginning on Friday, is unlikely to be a smooth affair for the ruling BJP-JJP coalition government with the principal opposition party, the Congress, already on the offensive on the issue of alleged irregularities in recruitments.Already the Congress has moved at least nine calling-attention notices and one adjournment motion on the issue of paper leak, setting the stage for a heated exchange on a host of issues.If the hullabaloo the Congress has already raised over what it terms “cash-for-job-scams”, involving the Haryana Staff Selection Commission (HSSC) and the Haryana Public Service Commission (HPSC), is of any indication, the opposition is set to create pandemonium in the House.“There are plenty of burning issues such as recruitment scandal, unemployment, law and order, and the problems farmers have been facing,” said Bhupinder Singh Hooda, the Congress Legislature Party (CLP) leader.“We will force the government to hold a meaningful debate on these issues, especially recruitment scams, troubling the citizens of the state,” he added.The opposition will also seek to target the state government on the farmers’ plight and their demand for a legal backing for minimum support price.Hooda said the shocking irregularities in recruitment and bribes being paid to get government jobs had fully exposed the state government. Alleging that the recruitment mafia had been selling jobs like goods at a grocery store, he reiterated the demand for a probe by a sitting high court judge.By upping the ante on alleged irregularities in recruitments and bribes paid for jobs, the Congress is striking at the root of chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar’s claims about “mission merit” in recruitment and people getting government jobs without “parchi-kharchi”.Khattar has been countering the Opposition onslaught saying that transparency is being exercised in recruitments being done by the HSSC and HPSC, and that the state government has provided 83,000 government jobs over a period of seven years without ‘parchi-kharchi’.Speaker holds BAC meetingAhead of the first sitting of the House on Friday at 2pm, Vidhan Sabha speaker Gian Chand Gupta held a business advisory committee (BAC) meeting to decide the duration of the session.Chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar, home minister Anil Vij, deputy speaker Ranbir Gangwa, deputy CM Dushyant Chautala, leader of opposition Bhupinder Singh Hooda and parliamentary affairs minister Kanwar Pal attended the meeting, and agreed to hold the session till December 22. According to the speaker, the Vidhan Sabha secretariat has received 273 starred and 173 unstarred questions, besides 33 calling-attention notices. On Friday, the Haryana Private Universities (Amendment) Bill, 2021 will be tabled.The amendments in the recruitment procedure of teaching and non-teaching posts in the universities of Haryana is also set to rock the House proceedings on Friday as at least 11 MLAs, including Bharat Bhushan Batra, Geeta Bhukkal, Aftab Ahmed and Jagbir Singh Malik have moved a calling-attention notice on this issue.Even as the winter session is being held after the Centre repealed the three farm laws, the issues revolving around farmers are likely to dominate the House proceedings.The repeal of three farm laws has come as a political relief for the BJP-JJP coalition government in Haryana that had been fire-fighting the law and order as a fallout of the farmer agitation for over a year.But the opposition MLAs, including a section of the independents and INLD’s lone MLA, Abhay Chautala, are set to generate heat on the treasury benches on issues bothering the cultivators.
17-12-2021||Chandigarh||Inter-state gang of buffalo thieves busted in Kaithal||The Kaithal police have busted an inter-state gang that stole buffaloes from several districts of Haryana, with the arrest of four men.Kaithal DSP Ravinder Sangwan said the accused had been identified as Kaamil, Tahir and Afis, all residents of Kairana town in Shamli district of Uttar Pradesh (UP), and Sunil Kumar of Dadri, Haryana. Another member of the gang, who also belongs to UP, is absconding.The DSP said the arrest of the accused had helped the police solve 18 cases of buffalo theft registered in six districts of the state. The accused have confessed to stealing 44 buffaloes in these cases. He said two accused had been sent to judicial custody and two to two-day police remand.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/interstate-gang-of-buffalo-thieves-busted-in-kaithal-101639684011580.html
17-12-2021||Chandigarh||HCS prelim, dental surgeon exams compromised : Haryana VB||The Haryana Vigilance Bureau (VB) on Thursday said the prime accused in the Haryana Public Service Commission (HPSC) recruitment scam didn’t succeed in compromising any examination, other than the Haryana Civil Services (HCS) preliminary and dental surgeon examinations. The investigation is continuing in the HPSC recruitment scam perpetrated by now dismissed HCS officer Anil Nagar; Ashwini Kumar the owner of Paru Data Solutions Pvt Ltd, which was given the work of scanning the OMR sheets, and a tout, Naveen Kumar, VB said in a statement. “The investigation so far has not revealed that the accused succeeded in compromising any examination other than the HCS preliminary and dental surgeon examinations conducted by the HPSC,” said the VB, adding officials of the HPSC, including the chairman and the secretary, were being associated with the investigation on a regular basis right from the beginning.The digital video recorder containing CCTV footage and other digital media were provided to the VB team by the HPSC officials, who also provided all other records that were sought by the VB.The OMR sheets and digital media obtained from the HPSC have been sent to the FSL for forensic examination.The spokesperson informed that notices had been sent to the suspect candidates who appeared in the HCS as well as dental surgeon examinations, and some of them had joined the investigation. Other suspect candidates are also in the process of being included in the investigation to ascertain their role and evaluate the extent of their culpability.The VB spokesperson said interrogation of the accused had revealed that Anil Nagar had hired Ashwini (Paru Data Solutions Pvt Ltd) for the scanning of the OMR sheets for the HCS preliminary and the dental surgeon examinations. Ashwani in turn contacted Naveen, who approached the candidates. The role of these three main accused persons was corroborated from the money trail, wherein the entire amount of ₹3.5 crore has been recovered from their possession or as kept on their behalf.Investigation has also revealed that the work for the two examinations, which were subject matter of investigation in the instant case, was entrusted to and carried out by Paru Data Solutions Pvt Ltd, owned by accused Ashwini, and not by M/S Safedot eSolutions Pvt Ltd, owned by Jasbir Singh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/hcs-prelim-dental-surgeon-exams-compromised-haryana-vb-101639684010149.html
17-12-2021||Chandigarh||Haryana dental recruitment scam: Plea seeking court-monitoring of probe sent to chief justice||Hearing a petition seeking court-monitoring of the Vigilance Bureau investigation into Haryana’s dental surgeon recruitment scam, a Punjab and Haryana high court division bench on Thursday forwarded it to the HC chief justice.The matter was listed before the bench of justice Ajay Tewari and justice Pankaj Jain, which while recording that “we are of the considered opinion that this writ petition is in the public interest and should be listed as per roster,” sent it to the high court registry, directing that it be listed before the appropriate bench as per roster after obtaining orders from the chief justice.The plea has been filed by Sabka Mangal Ho, a Haryana-based NGO, also demanding that the Enforcement Directorate (ED) be directed to register an enforcement case information report into the FIR registered by the Haryana Vigilance Bureau.“Time has come when the problem of corruption and money laundering needs to be analysed in the context of its potential implications for fundamental rights and human rights of the general public at large,” the plea says, adding that corruption not only poses a significant danger to the quality of governance, but also threatens, in an accelerated manner, the very foundation of India’s democracy, rule of law and statehood. Thus, asking for a court-monitored probe. The Haryana Vigilance Bureau on November 18 had arrested a 2016-batch HCS officer Anil Nagar, posted as deputy secretary in the Haryana Public Service Commission (HPSC) in connection with the dental surgeon recruitment scam. The recruitment was being carried out by the HPSC. A total of ₹3.5 crore cash has already been recovered so far during the course of investigation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/haryana-dental-recruitment-scam-plea-seeking-court-monitoring-of-probe-sent-to-chief-justice-101639684008824.html
17-12-2021||Chandigarh||Sidharth Chattopadhyaya, Rohit Chaudhary out of race for Punjab DGP’s post as UPSC sets service cut-off date||With the Union Public Service Commission (UPSC) setting October 5 as the cut-off date with criterion of six months of remaining service for the selection of the Punjab Police chief, two of the contenders — 1986-batch IPS officer Sidharth Chattopadhyaya and 1988-batch IPS officer Rohit Chaudhary — have got out of the race. The much-awaited meeting of the UPSC for shortlisting a panel of three officers from the state government’s list of 10 has been scheduled on December 21 in New Delhi. According to the Supreme Court guidelines set for the selection of a DGP, only those officers with at least six months of service left will be considered for the job. A senior state government official privy to the development confirmed the UPSC setting October 5 as the cut-off date. Chattopadhyaya and Chaudhary are scheduled to retire on March 31, 2022. As Chattopadhyaya’s name was being backed strongly by Punjab Congress president Navjot Singh Sidhu for the top job, the Charanjit Singh Channi-led government had had hurriedly sent 10 names to UPSC on September 30 evening.The government wanted to ensure that he be considered at any cost, it is learnt. A senior official in the chief minister’s office said, “The reason behind the UPSC considering October 5 as the cut-off date was that Dinkar Gupta continued in the top post till October.” Now, seven officers will be considered for the job. They are officiating DGP Iqbal Preet Singh Sahota of 1988 batch, Dinkar Gupta, BK Bhawra and Parbodh Kumar of 1987 batch, Sanjeev Kalra and Parag Jain of 1989 batch and BK Uppal of 1991 batch. Officials said it was not clear whether Gupta’s name would be considered by the UPSC for the panel of three officers as the entire process for replacement had started after the state government removed him as DGP. The government will pick one officer from the panel of three for the post. The Punjab chief secretary will also be part of the meeting with the UPSC panel while officiating DGP Sahota, himself being a contender for the post, won’t be participating. Usually, the incumbent DGP is expected to be part of the meeting with the UPSC to shortlist the candidates. Bone of contention between CM, Sidhu The appointment of the police chief has been a bone of contention between chief minister CM Channi and Sidhu in poll-bound Punjab. Sidhu had criticised Channi’s move to appoint Sahota as DGP, saying as head of the Bureau of Investigation (BoI) during the SAD-BJP government he conducted a probe into the Bargari sacrilege and termed desecrations as handiwork of two local youths and their foreign handlers. With the UPSC deciding the cut-off date, a section of the Sidhu camp wants Bhawra to get the top job, it is learnt.
17-12-2021||Chandigarh||HC suspends sentence of ex-cop convicted of destroying evidence in Kathua rape-murder case||The Punjab and Haryana high court on Thursday suspended the sentence of former policeman Tilak Raj, convicted of destroying evidence in the case of gangrape-murder of a minor girl from the Bakarwal community in Jammu and Kashmir’s Kathua district in January 2018. A special court in Pathankot in June 2019 had convicted three persons for gangrape and murder of the girl, saying that strained relations between the local Hindu community and nomadic Bakarwal Muslims were the reason behind the rape and murder The court had also convicted three cops, including Tilak Raj, a head constable, for destroying evidence and helping the accused. He was awarded 5 years rigorous imprisonment. The Supreme Court had transferred the case from Jammu to the Pathankot court in May 2018. “The application seeking suspension of the sentence was allowed on Thursday. A detailed order is awaited,” Tilak Raj’s lawyer Sanjeev Patial said. This is the first case where suspension of sentence has been allowed. All the accused have approached the high court against the conviction. The girl’s father, too, has moved the court seeking enhancement of the sentence awarded to the convicts.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/hc-suspends-sentence-of-ex-cop-convicted-of-destroying-evidence-in-kathua-rape-murder-case-101639683528746.html
17-12-2021||Other||Corrupt, criminals will face strict action: Channi||Ludhiana Punjab chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi on Thursday said those involved in sand mafia, sacrilege, irrigation scam or corruption in post-matric scholarship scheme will face strict action. “I am issuing a warning to those involved in any wrongdoing or the perpetrators of heinous crimes that they will be caught and awarded the strictest of punishment as per law. Action will be taken, irrespective of the social status of the person,” the CM said, after laying the foundation stone of a slew of development projects in Ludhiana. Addressing a gathering after laying the foundation stones of the Ravidass Auditorium, the East-end club, the Special Park Static compactor, Commercial and exhibition centre and others, Channi claimed that the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) and its nation convener were hypocrites. “Kejriwal’s promises are nothing, but a bunch of lies,” he alleged. Listing the pro-people initiatives of his government, he said power bill arrears of ₹1,500 crore had been waived; power rates for domestic consumers have been reduced by ₹3 per unit, build of ₹1200 crore have been waived off in respect of motors in rural areas, water charges brought down to ₹50, rates for sand have also been reduced.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/corrupt-criminals-will-face-strict-action-channi-101639683408961.html
17-12-2021||Other||I am new representative of people in 2022: Sidhu||Raikot (Ludhiana) Extending support to Kamil Amar Singh, son of Fatehgarh Sahib MP Amar Singh, Punjab Congress chief Navjot Singh Sidhu on Thursday ‘seemingly’ projected himself as the next chief minister, as he repeatedly addressed himself as the ‘new representative of people in 2022’ and the ‘flag-bearer of the new Punjab model’ in his address to the people in Raikot on Thursday. Sidhu’s backing of Kamil is a major setback to Jagtar Singh Jagga Hisowal, the sitting MLA from Raikot, who had only recently quit the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) and joined the Congress. In his address, Sidhu added that Punjab has become a state that was running only on reputation, but was extremely low on income and very high on debts. “You should vote for Congress to save the next generations and to save Punjab,” he told the gathering, assuring the people of bringing in fresh policies and a new beginning for the state with an innovative model of governance, if voted to power in the forthcoming elections. “Everyone should be part of the election process,” he added. “Punjab khokhla hui janda hai (currently Punjab’s sources are depleting),” said Sidhu in his address. “I will be representing Punjab and showing a new Punjab model,” he asserted.PROMISES DOUBLING WAGESOF GRAIN MARKET LABOURERS In Moga, Sidhu promised labourers involved in the loading and unloading of foodgrain (‘Palledaar Mazdoors’) that they would be paid directly into their bank accounts and the contractor system between them and food procurement agencies would be scrapped.“I am promising you, all Palledaars (labourers) will be made free from contractors. You will be paid directly in your account by the state government,” he said at an event that Foodgrain and Allied Workers Union, an organisation of palledaar union, had organised. He also promised that these labourers will get a minimum of ₹3.5 per gunny bag. Now, these workers are getting a maximum of ₹1.8 per bag by contractors, who hire them after getting the tender from food procurement agencies.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/i-am-new-representative-of-people-in-2022-sidhu-101639683348805.html
17-12-2021||Chandigarh||Will take Congress ministers to task for pushing Punjab under debt: Kejriwal at Lambi rally||Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) national convener and Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal said on Thursday that after being voted to power, their party will hold ministers of the current Congress government accountable for making Punjab a debt-ridden state. Addressing the party’s maiden election rally at politically important assembly segment of Lambi, which is represented in the Vidhan Sabha by former five-time CM Parkash Singh Badal since 1997, Kejriwal appealed to the voters to test AAP in Punjab for “one time”.“The guilty will be identified and brought to justice,” said the Delhi CM at the event named ‘Ik mauka Kejriwal nu’ (one chance to Kejriwal) where the party leadership highlighted the issue of Punjab’s debt of ₹3 lakh crore.“Several Punjab politicians have stashed ill-gotten money in Swiss bank accounts. If voted to power, the AAP government will expose them. The Congress government in Punjab is ‘nautankibaz’ and the ‘most corrupt ever in India,” he claimed.Of the state’s estimated annual budget ₹1.70 lakh crore, ₹34,000 crore is swindled in political corruption, said Kejriwal, adding that financial crunch gets reflected in the poor facilities in key sectors like education and healthcare. He sought one chance for the party to introduce people-oriented programmes like free medical treatment for all, strengthening infrastructure of government schools and providing a monthly grant of ₹1,000 each to women above 18 years. Accusing CM Charanjit Singh Channi of patronising the sand mafia, the AAP supremo said Channi indulged in political gimmickry and pushed a false narrative to hide the non-performance of the Congress government. He slammed the government for canechaging qualified teachers demanding government jobs.“The pre-poll promises like loan waiver for farmers, enhancing old-age pension, distribution of smartphones to students were not fulfilled. Channi’s announcement of lowering rates of sand, cable TV subscription and electricity rates have still not been executed,” he said.“Till date, the Congress has ruled the state for 25 years whereas the Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) was at the helm for 19 years. The two parties took turns to rule Punjab and Punjabis continue to suffer. If we fail to implement the Delhi model of governance in Punjab, change us next time,” he said.No reference to Badal family in their bastionIn his speech, Kejriwal kept the focus of his attack on CM Channi and his predecessor Captain Amarinder Singh and made no reference to the Badal family, including SAD chief Sukhbir Badal and former union minister Harsimrat Kaur Badal, who represents the Bathinda Lok Sabha seat. Also, he made no reference to the BJP that is preparing to contest the state elections on its own for the first time.The SAD has not announced its candidate from the Lambi segment yet.AAP state president Bhagwant Mann said their candidate from Lambi Gurmeet Singh Khuddian carries the legacy of his father late Jagdev Singh Khudian, an Akali Dal (Mann) MP from Faridkot. Khuddian, a former president of Muktsar district Congress, had quit the party in July this year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/will-take-congress-ministers-to-task-for-pushing-punjab-under-debt-kejriwal-at-lambi-rally-101639683171402.html
17-12-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab CM Channi reaches out to Christian community, makes slew of announcements||In an attempt to reach out to Christians in Punjab ahead of the assembly elections, chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi on Thursday made a slew of announcements for the community, including setting up of a chair at the university-level for the study of Bible.In his address during a state-level function at Gurdaspur to mark the birth anniversary of Jesus Christ, the CM while extending greetings said that the community would be given due representation in state government boards.Speaking on the problems raised by community representatives, Channi said the issue of graveyards would be resolved in the districts where they have a sizeable presence. A community hall each will be constructed in all districts to enable the community to hold functions there, he added.Deputy CM Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa, cabinet ministers Tript Rajinder Singh Bajwa, Aruna Chaudhary and Qadian MLA Fateh Jung Singh Bajwa also extended greetings to the community members on the occasion.Punjab Christian Welfare Board chairperson Salamat Masih expressed gratitude to the state government for choosing Gurdaspur as the venue for holding the state-level function.BOX: Low turnout at event venue embarrasses CM, ministersChief minister Charanjit Singh Channi and his cabinet colleagues were left embarrassed when he reached at an empty pandal at the venue of the state-level function. Channi, accompanied by deputy CM Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa and minister Aruna Choudhary, came from Chandigarh in a chopper around 11.30am. The CM instead decided to pay a surprise visit to the local civil hospital first.The Christian community leaders responsible for ensuring gathering at the venue went into a tizzy. The CM reached the venue around 1pm when it had a reasonable gathering but many chairs were still empty. On this, Channi did not go to the dais and straightaway started addressing the gathering.He admitted there was a low turnout and that he “arrived there too early”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-cm-channi-reaches-out-to-christian-community-makes-slew-of-announcements-101639682870165.html
17-12-2021||Other||40 fresh Covid cases, two deaths reported in Punjab||Chandigarh Punjab on Thursday registered 40 fresh cases of Covid-19 with two deaths from virus in past 24-hours. State’s positivity rate for the day remained 0.14%. With these fresh cases, the total tally of positive cases in the state has reached 6,03,853, according to a medical bulletin. The number of active cases in the state has increased to 333. Among fresh cases, the maximum number of seven cases were detected in Kapurthala; five in SAS Nagar and four in Ferozepur. With 27 persons recovered from the infection, the number of cured persons has reached 5,86,895, the medical bulletin added. To date, 16,625 persons have lost their lives due to the virus. A total of 1,65,54,386 samples have been collected for testing in the state, of which 27,675 were tested on Thursday. The number of vaccine doses administerd were 86,138.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/40-fresh-covid-cases-two-deaths-reported-in-punjab-101639682208556.html
17-12-2021||Delhi||10-year-old diesel vehicles in Delhi to lose registry on Jan 1||An estimated 200,000 diesel vehicles that are at least 10 years old will be de-registered by the Delhi government on January 1 according to a December 14 order issued by the Union Territory’s transport department that comes six years after the National Green Tribunal and three years after the country’s apex court passed orders to the effect in an effort to contain air pollution in the National Capital Region. “In compliance of the direction of the NGT, the transport department de-registered a number of vehicles; however, in the meantime, a new set of diesel vehicles completing more than 10 years in Delhi is due for de-registration. Accordingly, the transport department will de-register all such diesel vehicles in Delhi on 01.01.2022 which have completed/would be completing 10 years on that date,” read the order dated December 14, a copy of which has been reviewed by HT. While the NGT and Supreme Court orders also mentions petrol vehicles that are at least 15 years old, it says that they will not be de-registered immediately. Thus far, the Delhi transport department has de-registered at least 100,000 old diesel vehicles . There are an estimated 3.8 millionvehicles in Delhi that are technically overaged. Of these, 3.5 million are petrol vehicles that are at least 15 years old. The rest are diesel vehicles that are at least 10 years old. Transport commissioner Ashish Kundra said the huge difference is because the government first deregistered the oldest diesel vehicles in the city, meaning those that are at least 15 years old. Old petrol vehicles are not being targeted as of now because they are relatively less polluting than old diesel vehicles, Kundra said.According to the transport department’s order, the Delhi government has given three options to owners of such vehicles: either get a No Objection Certificate (NOC), which is issued by the state transport department, and sell it in any other state; retrofit it with approved electric kits; or scrap it.  The NOCs, issued by Delhi’s motor licensing officers can be used in some states to get the vehicle re-registered there. “It is illegal to drive any such vehicle without re-registration in that state,” said a senior transport official who asked not to be named.States where such vehicles are allowed to be sold and re-registered include Rajasthan, which allows it in all its districts; Bihar (18 districts); Maharashtra (26 districts); Uttar Pradesh (33); West Bengal (all districts but only BS-IV vehicles); and Meghalaya (all districts). The second option of retrofitting with electric kits, started on November 18 this year. “The transport department will soon empanel manufacturers of pure electric kits by approved testing agencies. Once empanelled, this will enable vehicles to continue plying here beyond 10 yrs,” transport minister Kailash Gahlot said on November 18.As for the third, Delhi has authorised six scrapper. “Owners of such vehicles,are advised to get such end of life vehicles scrapped through the authorised scrappers of the transport department, the list of which is available at the website of the department. The money is given as per the weight of the scrapped vehicle,”the transport official cited above said.The transport department conducts checks to identify such end of life vehicles from time-to-time. From September to November, the department conducted a drive wherein any diesel vehicle older than 15 years if found plying on city roads or parked in public spaces, is immediately impounded and sent to the scrapping yard.There is no penalty for driving such a vehicle because technically such vehicles are deemed de-registered. So, the department directly impounds such vehicles and sends them to the scrap yard.
17-12-2021||Other||Two Nigerians held for assaulting Gurugram cops, illegal stay||Two Nigerians were arrested on Wednesday night for allegedly assaulting policemen in DLF Phase 3 and staying illegally in the country. Police said they are suspected to be drug peddlers and had come to supply drugs ahead of the New Year. Police said that during the night patrolling, a police team spotted the two, identified as Emek and Emul from Nigeria, walking near a private school and found their presence suspicious. Manoj Kumar, station house officer of DLF Phase 3 police station, said that police intercepted them and asked to show their passports and visas which they could not. “The suspects changed their statements frequently. Firstly they said they lived in Delhi and came here to meet their friends but could not share any details of their friends. Then they said they were staying here only. After a few minutes, they got agitated and fled from the spot,” he said. Both were caught after a chase of 200 metres in DLF Phase 3, but they still tried to escape and assaulted three policemen, Kumar said, adding that they could not furnish any details of their passports and visas and were staying in India illegally. Kumar said during questioning the suspects revealed that earlier they used to live in Sultanpur and Devli in Delhi. A case under sections 186 (obstructing public servant in discharge of public function), 353 (assault or criminal force to deter public servant), 332 (voluntarily causing hurt to deter public servant from his duty) of IPC, and Section 14 of the Foreigners Act and Section 12 (1A) of the Passport Act was registered at DLF Phase 3 police station on Wednesday night. Police said both the suspects were produced before the court on Thursday that sent them to 14-day judicial custody.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/two-nigerians-held-for-assaulting-gurugram-cops-illegal-stay-101639682148857.html
17-12-2021||Noida||Five members of ‘exam solver’ gang held in Noida||The Gautam Budh Nagar police on Wednesday arrested a gang of five men that was allegedly involved in impersonating candidates and appearing in their places for different government recruitment examinations, several of which had exam centres in Noida as well. Each candidate was charged around ₹6 to 7 lakh by the gang with a promise that they would clear the exams on behalf of them, said police on Thursday.All five suspects are residents of Aligarh and have been identified as Lalit, Anil Kumar, Yashvir, Rohit and Rakesh. According to the police, the mastermind of the gang, a man named Harshit, also a resident of Aligarh, is still on the run. The suspects were arrested from Sector 58 police station jurisdiction, officers said.“On Wednesday, the five were arrested from D-Park in Sector 62 where a government exam was taking place. The police recovered six mobile phones and 70 admit cards of various government examinations from them,” said Ranvijay Singh, ADCP, Noida.The admit cards are for various competitive exams such as the SSC (staff selection commission), Allahabad high court recruitment main exam, Indian Coast Guard exam, Central airmen selection board and more.On questioning, the suspects revealed that they would forge documents of the real candidate and would send another person — a solver — in his place to take the examination.“The solver would be given ₹20,000 by the gang and if he cleared the examination, he would be given ₹60,000-70,000 more, once the results came. Of the five arrested, Yashvir was the solver and others were mediators who would bring in leads on candidates. Yashvir admitted that he has taken the examinations in place of real candidates at least 10 to 15 times previously,” said Singh.He further said the gang has been active in Noida since last three or four years and has managed to get at least 10 to 15 candidates clear different government recruitment examinations through these fraudulent means.“Their motive was to penetrate almost all such government exams that are held online at various centres in Noida. We are trying to find out the candidates who cleared the examinations with the help of this gang. We have also recovered mobile chats from the phones of the arrested men which point to bank accounts in Dubai and Singapore. All these leads are being probed,” said Singh.He added that teams have been formed to nab mastermind Harshit and police will remain on alert whenever such recruitment exams are held in Noida.The five men have been booked under relevant sections of the Indian Penal Code, including 420 (cheating and dishonestly inducing delivery of property), 419 (cheating by personation) and 468 (forgery for purpose of cheating).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/five-members-of-exam-solver-gang-held-in-noida-101639682089234.html
17-12-2021||Gurugram||Gurugram’s namaz row: Will offer prayers at 20 designated sites, say Muslims||Muslims in the city on Thursday said that they will perform Friday namaz at the 20 sites designated earlier by the city administration in the absence of any new order regarding the prayers even as Hindu outfits said they will not allow anybody to use these spaces to pray. Last Friday, the permission for the sites was withdrawn by the administration after Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar said the practise of offering namaz at public spaces will not be tolerated as it is leading to controversies and confrontations. The chief minister then said that new sites will be earmarked after discussions between the Muslims and Hindu groups and the district administration.However, till late Thursday evening no fresh order was issued by the administration for the prayers. “At least, the administration should release a new list of designated places so that we can inform the members of the community, and they can gather there on Friday to perform prayers. Seniors officials are not giving any clear answer,” said Mohammad Adeeb, a former Rajya Sabha member who is leading a 21-member committee to resolve the ongoing issue. Administration officials who spoke on the condition of the anonymity confirmed that no new sites have been earmarked yet. They said the police have been asked to deploy force at the spots where Muslims were likely to gather for prayers on Friday. “We have tried to conduct several meetings between the two groups, but neither is ready to compromise. We want to reach an amicable decision to resolve the issue,” said a senior official.The police said that personnel from at least six police stations were on alert, and have been assigned specific duties for Friday. Members of the Sanyukt Hindu Sangharsh Samiti, however, threatened to disrupt namaz again, if Muslims used open public spaces. Mahavir Bhardwaj, state president of the group, said, “The Gurugram Imam Sanghathan has agreed to not offer namaz in the open and people who have vested interests are trying to politicise the issue. We will not allow anyone to use the public spaces, and if anyone does, they will be responsible for any untoward incident,” he said. Hindu right-wing groups have been protesting against Friday namaz in open public spaces in Gurugram for the last three years. In 2018, the administration designated 37 sites for Muslims to perform the Friday prayers. However, last month, the number of sites was cut down to 20 after members of the right-wing groups and locals continued to protest and disrupt prayers. Muslims, however, have maintained that they were forced to use public spaces since there were not enough number of mosques in the city. Praveen Yadav, a member of the Sanyukt Hindu Sangharsh Samiti, said local residents will occupy the namaz sites in Sector 37, Sector 12, 44 and Udyog Vihar. “Last Friday, we informed the Muslim community not to usee these spaces. Many of them went to Sector 22 to offer namaz in parks and open grounds without the consent of the local residents but we will not let them offer prayers in open on Friday,” he said, adding that they have formed teams of six members each to keep a check at the namaz sites. Adeeb, on Wednesday, filed a contempt petition in the Supreme Court on Wednesday against Haryana chief secretary and the director general of police for not complying with a 2018 order of the apex court in which the apex court laid down guidelines to prevent mob vigilantism. “We have filed a contempt petition against Haryana government for its failure to stop fringe elements from disrupting the Friday namaz at designated sites in Gurugram. For the last three months, there has been a constant rise in incidents on Friday where the Hindu group members disrupt namaz in the open. They claim they were doing it in the name of religion, and try to create an atmosphere of hatred,” said Adeeb.
17-12-2021||Noida||Centre to provide 20% funds for urban ropeway project in Ghaziabad||Officials of the Ghaziabad Development Authority (GDA) said on Thursday that the Centre will provide 20% of the ₹450 crore required for constructing the 5.1km-long urban ropeway project that will connect the two Metro stations of Mohan Nagar and Vaishali in Ghaziabad. The ropeway project is being planned as an alternative to a Metro extension to connect Mohan Nagar on the Red line and Vaishali on the Blue line of the Delhi Metro Rail Network (DMRC). The proposal was suggested by General (retd) V K Singh, who is also the minister of state for road transport and highways and civil aviation, besides being an MP from Ghaziabad, earlier this year. “Two days ago (Tuesday), we held meetings with General V K Singh and other officials in Delhi and an in-principle approval was given for the Centre’s share of 20% towards the project. Since the project will be taken up on public private partnership mode, the company developing the project will fund 60% of the project. The remaining share will be borne by the GDA,” said Krishna Karunesh, vice chairperson of GDA. “Now, we need to put forward the proposal before the GDA board before sending it to the state government. The board meeting was scheduled for Thursday but it got postponed as the session of the UP assembly is going on. Once the session ends, we will hold the board meeting and get the approval for the proposal,” said Karunesh. The ropeway is a transport system for ferrying goods or people especially used in mountainous areas or mines, wherein the carrier cars are suspended with the help of moving cables, powered by a motor system. Earlier in October, the cost of the project, which was originally pegged at ₹487 crore, was further reduced to ₹450 crore. Officials said the entire ropeway project will be elevated and based on 27 pillars and will move over the Regional Rapid Transit System (RRTS) alignment near Sahibabad. The detailed project report (DPR) has proposed four stations for the ropeway at Mohan Nagar, Sahibabad, Vasundhara and Vaishali. The starting and ending stations will be connected to the respective Metro stations with the help of skywalks of 150 metres, which will be constructed by the authority. As per the DPR estimates, a passenger will have to shelve out a minimum of ₹20 and a maximum of ₹30 for covering the entire distance in the ropeway. It is also estimated that the ropeway system will cater to 80,000 passengers in a week.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/centre-to-provide-20-funds-for-urban-ropeway-project-in-ghaziabad-101639681910065.html
17-12-2021||Delhi||Delhi logs 85 new infections but caseload trajectory remains flat||The national capital added 85 Covid-19 infections on Thursday, the most in 161 days, even as the positivity rate hit a nearly six-month high of 0.15% -- and while the absolute numbers are still very small, experts advised caution given the emergence of the Omicron variant of the coronavirus.Delhi has added an average of 52 cases a day over the past week, showed state government data higher than the seven-day average two weeks ago. In the seven days ending December 2, Delhi added an average of 33 cases a day.The city last saw more cases on July 8, when it added 93 infections. The positivity rate on Thursday was last at this level on June 29, and higher on June 22, when the number touched 0.20%.Delhi has completely vaccinated 10 million of its residents against Covid-19. And while nearly 97% of Delhi’s 15 million adults have received at least a single vaccine dose, the remaining five million children are still beyond the ambit of inoculation.Experts termed Thursday’s case spike a matter of concern, especially when read in the backdrop of the Omicron threat.So far, six people in Delhi have been diagnosed with the Omicron variant of the SARS-CoV-2 virus that causes Covid-19.“It is definitely a cause for concern especially because Omicron is now all over the world. So far, 71 countries have reported Omicron cases. So if you look for it you will find it,” said Dr GC Khilnani, former head of the department of pulmonology at AIIMS and chairman of PSRI Institute of Pulmonary and Critical CareTo be sure, Delhi’s caseload is still at record lows, as it has been for around seven months, after the fourth wave of infections (between April and May) flattened out. The city hasn’t seen a single Covid-19 death in eight days, according to government data, with the last fatality on December 8. As of Wednesday, 25,100 people in the city have succumbed to the infection since the outbreak of the pandemic in early March last year. But Covid-19 fatalities have been rare since the fourth wave bottomed out in May, and resultant deaths fell to single-digits in mid-June. The last 100 Covid-19 deaths in Delhi have been recorded over 164 days, state government data shows. In comparison, the previous 100 deaths came in 14 days, while the 100 before those came in just six days.A devastating wave between April and May left hundreds of thousands infected, and 13,100 dead. At the peak of this period, Delhi added over 400 deaths for three straight days (from May 1 to 3).Experts have previously that the sheer scale of infection spread in that period, coupled with a strong rate of vaccinations would have contributed to Delhi’s thin Covid-19 caseload over the past few months. This was borne out by results of the city’s sixth serological survey, samples for which were collected in end-September. A preliminary report released by the state government last month showed that 97 of every 100 people living in the city had antibodies to the coronavirus, either due to previous infection or inoculation.However, doctors pointed out that immunity due to vaccines waned significantly after six months, reaffirming the need for booster doses.“Research in Israel, Canada and US has shown immunity is 20% to 50% after six months of vaccination. So there is no question that boosters are important. The elderly, those with comorbidities and frontline workers should be prioritised,” said Dr Khilnani.Delhi government spokespersons did not respond to requests for comment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-logs-85-new-infections-but-caseload-trajectory-remains-flat-101639681849281.html
17-12-2021||Noida||Traffic hit on Chilla road as farmers take to streets to press for their demands||Farmers protesting against the Noida authority to press their demand for better compensation and benefits in lieu of the land they have given for development on Thursday lay siege outside top officials’ residence in Sector 14-A, causing vehicles to pile up on the Delhi-Noida Link road. Farmers, who have been protesting against the authority since September 1, said they will intensify their agitation from Friday onwards if their demands are not accepted.Around 1pm on Thursday, the farmers marched towards Sector 14-A, where the authority’s CEO Ritu Maheshwari and other top officials stay, and staged a sit-in for at least three hours. They also blocked the Chilla border between Delhi and Noida. According to the Noida traffic police, traffic movement on the Noida-Delhi border was affected between 2pm and 4.30pm and vehicles coming from Delhi to Noida were diverted towards DND and Ashok Vihar. Ganesh Saha, deputy commissioner of police, (traffic) Gautam Budh Nagar, said, “The farmers reached Chilla border at 2pm and protested for two hours. We diverted the Delhi-bound traffic to the DND flyway and towards Ashok Vihar.” The farmers left the spot at around 4.30 pm, he added. Sukhbir Yadav, founder president of Bharatiya Kisan Parishad, who was leading the protest, said, “Our intention was not to trouble the public but to make our demands heard. We were barely there for two hours and restricted our protest to just one lane of the road.” Ritika Saha, a commuter, was caught in a traffic jam on the Chilla border for half an hour. “The traffic police should have alerted the commuters in advance about such a protest,” he said.The farmers returned to the protest site outside the Noida authority’s administrative building in Sector 6 around 5pm. The authority officials tried to discuss the issues with farmers but they refused to end the protest.“We will not end the protest until we are given in writing that all our demands will be met and subsequently be accepted in the board meeting of the authority. We do not believe the authority officials because they have been fooling us for many years. If they do not accept our demands, we will launch an indefinite agitation,” said Yadav. Farmers want 10% of residential land for their families against the total land acquired by the authority, 64% more compensation in addition to what they have got so far, old Abadi settlement in villages, unregulated construction in villages among other demands.“Why does the authority have to regulate the buildings in the villages?...Villages should grow naturally,...” said Prempal Chauhan, a farmer from Nagli Wazidpur.Praveen Mishra, additional CEO of the Noida authority, said, “We are trying to discuss and address the farmers’ issues. We hope soon the issues will be resolved and the protest will be over.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/traffic-hit-on-chilla-road-as-farmers-take-to-streets-to-press-for-their-demands-101639681730396.html
17-12-2021||Delhi||Delhi disaster management authority extends all Covid-related curbs till Dec 31||The Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) has extended all existing relaxations as well as curbs, on account of Covid-19 pandemic, in the national capital till December 31. In an order on Wednesday, the DDMA said activities currently permitted in Delhi will continue up to the intervening night of December 31 midnight. However, it stated that all political, social, cultural, religious and other such gatherings shall continue to remain prohibited. But given all existing relaxations, Christmas and New Year’s Eve will not be a muted affair like they were last year, when there were stricter restrictions in place due to the third wave of the pandemic in the city. But, the order also implies that no big parties, gatherings or events will be allowed in the city during the festive season. Apart from a cap of 50% seating capacity in bars and restaurants, the order also said restriction will continue on halls to hold events other than meetings and conferences, exhibitions and marriages.On Wednesday, Delhi recorded 86 Covid cases and zero deaths, according to the state health bulletin.The positivity rate in Delhi is 0.15%.“And whereas, the status of Covid-19 in NCT of Delhi has again been reviewed and it has been observed that though the overall number of Covid-19 patients and positivity rate has declined considerably and the overall situation has improved, due caution and care has to be continued so that adequate standards of Covid appropriate behaviour continues to be followed and any such activity, that can lead to a surge in cases, is allowed only after rigorous and due diligence,” read the order. “In case any person is found violating the aforesaid instructions, the defaulting person(s) shall be proceeded against as per the provisions of section 51 to 60 of the Disaster Management Act, 2005, Section 188 of IPC and other applicable laws. This order shall not prohibit any further restrictions / measures imposed by any other department or authority or institution empowered under any relevant law to control the spread of Covid-19 virus as well as for any other purpose,” it further said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-disaster-management-authority-extends-all-covid-related-curbs-till-dec-31-101639681490011.html
17-12-2021||Noida||Traffic resumes on Delhi-Meerut Expressway after a year||After a gap of over a year, traffic resumed on the Ghaziabad-Delhi carriageway of the Delhi-Meerut Expressway on Thursday, after the last batch of farmers vacated the UP Gate area a day earlier. The officials of the Ghaziabad police said they have removed all barricading on the DME and so has the Delhi Police. The UP Gate area used to see about 60,000 passenger car units (PCUs) a day before the farmers’ protest began. The Ghaziabad-Delhi carriageways of the DME, as well as lanes of National Highway 9 (NH-9), of which the DME is a part, were shut on November 28 last year, in the wake of farmers occupying the UP Gate site to protest against the three contentious farm laws that were finally withdrawn in December. “The Ghaziabad-Delhi lanes of the DME have been opened and two lanes of NH-9 have also been opened to traffic. Two lanes of the highway are still closed as some barricading is left to be removed. Traffic is plying smoothly on the expressway, besides regular traffic on the highway lanes. The Delhi-Ghaziabad lanes of the DME were already operational,” said Arvind Kumar, project director, NHAI. The UP Gate area comprises three expressway lanes on each side, while the four outer lanes on each side are the NH-9 lanes. Together, the DME and NH-9 have 14 lanes up to Dasna in Ghaziabad. The officials of the Ghaziabad police said they removed the barricades that they had put up near Khoda and also near Pratap Vihar to restrict the movement of commuters towards the UP Gate protest site. Due to the restrictions, daily commuters were using the alternative routes through Noida’s sector 62, Hindon canal road near Khoda and Anand Vihar border near Kaushambi. “With the opening of the DME, the diversions have automatically ended. This will reduce congestion and give relief to thousands of commuters who had a harrowing time taking detours to reach their destinations. The service lane to Vaishali is yet to be opened due to barricading while the UP Gate underpass area is now open,” said Gyanendra Kumar Singh, superintendent of police (city 2). The traffic police said it is coordinating with the Delhi Police for removal of remaining barricades. “The service lane from Delhi to Vaishali is yet to be opened and so are two lanes of NH-9 — from Ghaziabad to Delhi. The Raj Nagar Extension to UP Gate lanes of the Hindon elevated road are yet to open as cleaning work is still on at UP Gate. We expect the remaining routes will to be opened in the next 24 hours,” said Ramanand Kushwaha, superintendent of police (traffic). The commuters heaved a sigh of relief on traffic resuming on DME. “I started about an hour early each day during past one year to reach my office in south Delhi on time. Resumption of traffic is a major relief for thousands of commuters who battled jams, snarls and pollution due to diversions,” said Kuldeep Saxena, resident of Indirapuram. The RWA office bearers from Kaushambi said their township witnessed a major inflow of vehicles due to closure of UP Gate during the farmers’ protest. “From about 6,000 estimated vehicles on a normal day, the traffic in our township spiked to about 70,000 vehicles per day due to diversion. At last, the DME has opened and we expect that the traffic chaos in our township will end now. We faced huge traffic issues and pollution on account of diversions,” said VK Mittal, president of Kaushambi Apartments RWA.
17-12-2021||Other||Over 300 vehicles fined for HSRP violation in Gurugram||The Gurugram traffic police on Thursday observed ‘zero tolerance day’ in the district against vehicles operating without a high-security registration plate (HSRP). The drive started at 10am and continued till late evening, officials said. Till 8pm, 306 vehicles were issued fines for not having HSRPs, while 20 vehicles were penalised for plying without number plates, the officials said, adding that a fine of ₹500 was imposed on each offender. Ravinder Tomar, deputy commissioner of police (traffic), said that special emphasis was laid on people driving vehicles without the high security plates. “We conducted several drives in the past and urged people to get these number plates. But they are being negligent and trying to delay it, following which we have started taking action,” he said. The officials said there are nearly 20 lakh vehicles, including two-wheelers, in the city and more than 20% do not have the high security plates. These plates come in handy for police in checking vehicle theft cases, which have seen an average rise of 11% annually. “Our teams were also deployed at all intersections and major stretches to catch violators. Next on our agenda is to enforce traffic discipline at dark spots across the city and on National Highway 8, as our goal is to reduce fatalities on the road,” said Tomar. The officials said they are taking all the traffic violations one by one and next on radar is speeding and drink driving during the night ahead of New Year. “We will be focusing on MG Road, Golf Course Road, Sohna Road and Golf Course Extension Road where many clubs, bars and restaurants are located,” Tomar said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/over-300-vehicles-fined-for-hsrp-violation-in-gurugram-101639681428689.html
17-12-2021||Noida||Speed limit on Yamuna e-way cut to 80kmph after worries over visibility||With an aim to prevent vehicles from overspeeding on the Yamuna Expressway and curb accidents, the Yamuna Expressway Industrial Development Authority (Yeida) has reduced the speed limit for light vehicles to 80 kilometre per hour (kmph) from 100 kmph due to low visibility during the winter season. The speed for heavy vehicles has been fixed at 60 kmph from 80 kmph, said officials.“The speed limit of 80 kmph for light vehicles and 60kmph for heavy vehicles will be applicable from December 15 to February 15, 2022. Commuters who are caught violating the speed limit will be fined,” said Arun Vir Singh, CEO of Yeida.In the past couple of days, the visibility on the expressway has been very poor leading to accidents, said officials.On December 13, two men from Delhi died and two more sustained injuries after the car they were travelling in reportedly collided with a moving truck on the Yamuna expressway, said Yeida officials.On November 6, five people, including the wife and son of a UP government official, and a driver of a private bus died in a car-bus collision on the expressway. Police later said the bus driver dozed off when he was returning from Agra to Greater Noida.On November 5, as many as five people were killed in a car-bus accident on the expressway as the bus driver reportedly fell asleep. The bus crossed over to other side of the expressway, killing the driver and four others travelling in the car.The authority has also suggested to arrange tea for commuters at the toll plazas so that drivers stay alert and do not fall asleep in the early morning hours.Data provided by Yeida shows that 45% of the accidents are a result of drivers falling asleep while driving. Speeding and violation of traffic rules on the expressway account for 19% and 11% of the accidents respectively. The stationary vehicles on the expressway have also been found as a major cause of accidents.The Yeida has also directed the toll operator, Jaypee Infratech Limited, to expedite the work of installing crash barriers on the median of the Yamuna Expressway from Greater Noida to Agra.The expressway operator will spend ₹75 crore on the installation of crash barrier. A crash barrier is a strong fence at the side of a road or in the middle of a dual carriageway or motorway that prevents a vehicle from diverting to the other side and reduces the risk of serious accidents.“We have directed the toll operator to expedite the work to ensure the safety of commuters driving on the expressway,” said Singh.
17-12-2021||Mumbai||MVA-Koshyari cold war may intensify||Mumbai: The ongoing cold war between the state government and Raj Bhavan may intensify, with the Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA) regime curtailing the powers of the governor in overseeing functioning of state universities. The state cabinet on Wednesday cleared a proposal to create a new position of the pro-chancellor for universities, which will be headed by the higher and technical education minister. Governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari, by law, is the chancellor of universities. According to the proposal, the governor’s powers to appoint vice-chancellors will be trimmed, with the search committee set up to identify probable candidates submitting five names to the state, which, in turn, will forward two to the governor. At present, this list is submitted directly to Raj Bhavan. To be sure, the MVA and the governor have clashed on a range of issues, the most notable being the appointment of 12 persons to the state legislative council that has been pending for over a year. MVA leaders accuse the Governor of acting as a proxy for the opposition Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP). A senior minister from the Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) admitted that the state cabinet’s decision had been prompted by the tussle with the governor. “The governor often sits on decisions and this move will streamline the functioning and administration of universities… it is the right of a government and the legislature to legislate. The position of a governor is an ornamental one, and does not have executive powers. If impediments are being created in the working of a government, it must remove them,” he said. Shiv Sena Lok Sabha MP and spokesperson Arvind Sawant, however, denied this was an attempt to encroach on the governor’s turf. “But, considering how the governor has been behaving for the past two years, this has created an impediment in the functioning of varsities,” Sawant said. “It was necessary to understand why the state government was compelled to take such a decision.”Maharashtra Pradesh Congress Committee (MPCC) spokesperson Atul Londhe said, “This is not a tussle between the government and the governor. In a democracy, a popularly-elected government has certain authority,” Londhe said. He added that the BJP was using the office of the governor to encroach upon the government’s rights. “While the appointment of 12 MLCs from the Governor’s quota was cleared in 24 hours in Bihar, in Maharashtra, it is pending for over a year,” said Londhe, adding that the amendments to the Maharashtra Public Universities Act, 2016, were meant to strengthen and streamline functioning of universities. While Raj Bhavan officials declined to comment, BJP leader and former minister Ashish Shelar alleged that the decision was taken with an eye on the land controlled by universities. He also alleged that the new system introduced for the appointment of the VCs will lead to corruption, resulting in appointment of persons like Sachin Vaze. Shelar said they will approach the courts, and if needed, will also launch a ‘save universities’ drive. He said, “The MVA government has changed the laid-down, scientific method of picking VCs under Maharashtra Public Universities Act. The powers of the governor who is also the chancellor of the university have been curtailed. This clearly means that selection of VCs will now be done by the ‘Yuva Sena kitchen cabinet’ (the youth wing of Shiv Sena led by state minister Aaditya Thackeray). Looking at the style of working of the MVA government, the change in the selection method appears to be to enable itself someone like (dismissed police officer) Sachin Vaze.” Deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar denied that the amendments trimmed the powers of the governor and refuted claims of this being a political move. Instead, he asked, “Does the delay in appointing 12 MLCs fits into democratic norms?”Political analyst Hemant Desai said such a friction between the government and the governor was unprecedented in the history of Maharashtra, barring the tenures of former governors PC Alexander and SM Krishna, when they had insisted on funds for regional development corporations for backward areas. “Such political use of the governor’s position by the opposition (BJP) is unprecedented,” noted Desai, stating how Koshyari had frequently granted audience to BJP leaders and actress Kangana Ranaut, who had taken on the Shiv Sena. The governor had also stuck to his post despite criticism from chief minister Uddhav Thackeray, his deputy Ajit Pawar, NCP president Sharad Pawar and others, said Desai. BOX: The MVA is upset at the governor’s role in the controversial early morning swearing-in of Devendra Fadnavis and Ajit Pawar in 2019 as part of their short-term arrangement. The governor, a former BJP leader, has kept the MVA’s list of 12 nominees to the state legislative council in cold-storage for over a year. In February, Koshyari was denied the use of the state government’s aircraft to fly to Mussoorie, and had to take a commercial flight at the last minute. The Governor also lent a patient ear the actress Kangana Ranaut, who had relentlessly attacked the Shiv Sena. The government also saw red at Koshyari’s review meetings with officials during his visits to Marathwada in August. In August, State Congress chief Nana Patole had charged that a meeting between a MVA delegation headed by chief minister Uddhav Thackeray, and the governor could not be held as he refused to give them an appointment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mvakoshyari-cold-war-may-intensify-101639681070824.html
17-12-2021||Chandigarh||High court stays formation of SIT in rape case against Punjab MLA Bains||The Punjab and Haryana high court on Thursday stayed the Punjab Police’s decision to constitute a special investigating team (SIT) into rape allegations by a widow against MLA from Atam Nagar (Ludhiana) and Lok Insaaf Party (LIP) chief Simarjeet Singh Bains.The SIT was constituted on November 26. The woman had alleged that the SIT was constituted even as final charge-sheet (challan) was presented. Also, the decision was taken without permission of the competent court.In her plea, the woman had claimed that the case has a “chequered history” as the FIR was registered only after the court’s intervention. Investigation was concluded and challan was presented and there are a total of 7 accused and none of them was arrested nor any proclaimed offender proceedings were initiated against them, the court was informed.Surprisingly, the state government has constituted a fresh SIT on the basis of a “motivated application” filed by the brother of the accused, she contended.It was further alleged that the constitution of the SIT is for the purpose of re-investigation of the case without seeking permission from the competent court. Though it has been constituted supposedly for further investigation, the actual motive is to save the accused against whom even non-bailable warrants were issued but never executed till date, it was submitted. The petitioner also claims that Bains has been prosecuted in 13 different FIRs.Seeking response from the Punjab Police by March 24, the court stayed the November 26 order on constitution of the SIT. It was on July 6 that a Ludhiana court had ordered registration of FIR against Bains on the complaint of the woman who initially lodged a complaint against the MLA eight months ago alleging that she had come into contact with him in a property dispute case and was trapped. The case was finally registered at a Ludhiana police station on July 12 on the court orders.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/high-court-stays-formation-of-sit-in-rape-case-against-punjab-mla-bains-101639681070190.html
17-12-2021||Other||Gurugram: H-Rera issues arrest notice against two realty firms||The Gurugram bench of the Haryana Real Estate Regulatory Authority (H-Rera) on Thursday issued a notice of arrest against two developers in separate cases for failing to comply with the directions of the regulatory authority, and not responding to the notices issued to them earlier. The bench headed by KK Khandelwal ordered the Delhi Police to arrest directors of Sepset Properties Pvt Ltd and Supertech Limited. “It is directed that the directors and the managing director of the judgment debtor (developer) be arrested and brought before the authority through the commissioner of police, Delhi and concerned SHO(s) of the police station(s) where the registered office and the residence of the judgement debtor corporation is located, to show cause as to why they should not be detained in civil imprisonment. These decisions of the authority are very significant and shall send across a clear message to all errant promoters who attempt to evade compliance of the directions of the authority or satisfaction of its decree on one pretext or the other,” the order said. According to H-Rera, in the case of Satish Kumar Chawla versus Sepset Properties Pvt Ltd, the authority directed the developer to submit a list of its assets but it did not comply with the order. The authority also ordered the attachment of the bank account of the developer, but this was not complied with despite repeated notices were issued to the bank, the authority said. The authority ordered the developer to pay ₹38 lakh to the buyer for delay in the delivery of a flat in Paras Dew project in Sector 106. Officials of Sepset Properties could not be contacted for comment.Khandelwal said that due to repeated non-compliance, the authority has issued notice of arrest. “Despite repeated directions the managements failed to act. These directions are meant to provide relief to the aggrieved home buyers,” he said. In case related to Supertech, the authority said the arrest notice was issued for disobedience of its orders as the directors of the company did not appear before the authority. The authority said Supertech was directed to pay ₹53 lakh to the buyer for delay in delivery of a flat in Araville project in Sector 79. However, the company did not pay the homebuyer despite repeated reminders. RK Arora, chairman, Supertech Ltd, did not respond to repeated phone calls and messages sent by HT for response.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/gurugram-h-rera-issues-arrest-notice-against-two-realty-firms-101639681068774.html
17-12-2021||Delhi||Fear, hope in Delhi’s new African enclave||Bablu Gupta runs a departmental store in R block of west Delhi’s Mohan Garden with two names displayed on either side. The original name is MH Food mart, but in the last few years, Gupta has added another name -- African Food Shop – for the new residents of the colony.Next to Gupta’s shop is Attraction Unisex Saloon, run by a Nigerian man. His customers are mostly people from African nations who have settled in the area in recent years. Some distance away is Franco African, a shop that sells edible items with ties to African nations.The reason: Hundreds of people from various African countries who have settled in Mohan Garden in the past five years, often moving away from other areas like Malviya Nagar after facing humiliation and discrimination, and making the humble neighbourhood Delhi’s new African enclave. Chiyozu, who works at a saloon, said that he directly came to Mohan Garden about three years ago from Nigeria, but his friends were earlier living in Malviya Nagar and Lajpat Nagar. “I live with my wife and daughter. Some of my friends had troubles living in parts of south Delhi. Foreigners like us are assumed to be criminals, who live illegally and do drugs. In south Delhi, that was the problem they faced. The media and police also visited there regularly so there was no privacy,” he said. Local residents said the influx of people from various African countries was due to reasonable rents in the area.“It wasn’t like this until 5-6 years ago. One would hardly see a foreigner on the streets here. Today, you will find around 60-80 shops being run by the foreigners, that cater to people from African nations here,” said Alok Gupta, a member of the A-block Resident Welfare Association. Mohan Garden represents a growing trend in the Capital of people from African nations being forced to move from south Delhi localities such as Khirki Extension, Chhatarpur, Kishangarh and Mehrauli to west Delhi colonies such as Tilak Nagar, Vikaspuri and Mohan Garden. They say the shift was necessitated by hostilities and racism from local residents, who often accused them of being criminals. HOW MOHAN GARDEN CHANGED A middle-income neighbourhood on the western fringes of the Capital, Mohan Garden was a nondescript area known for its abundant farm land till three decades ago. With the Delhi Metro making its way to nearby Uttam Nagar about 15 years ago, the area quickly developed, becoming an affordable residential colony with land rates much lower than other west Delhi localities such as Janakpuri or Tilak Nagar. About three years ago, local residents started noticing the first foreigners in the area, where rents were often a third of more upscale localities in south Delhi. But many people from African nations said a bigger reason to leave their old neighbourhoods was the everyday discrimination they faced. A 28-year-old man from Nigeria was one of them. The man, who requested anonymity for security reasons, said he worked at a local salon, and shifted to Mohan Garden from Malviya Nagar. “I want to clarify that I am living legally here. I have my papers and carry them round the clock,” he said. The man said he came about three years ago to work at a salon owned by a friend from his native village in Nigeria. “We had a salon in Malviya Nagar, too, but were forced to shut shop as the population of African people decreased in that area. My friend told me that until five years ago, he would get about 10-15 customers daily. But people started leaving the place and shifted here. Business is good here,” he said. He said Mohan Garden was cheaper to live in than Malviya Nagar. “Here, we pay a rent of about ₹8,000-10,000 for a one room set. In south Delhi, it would cost almost three times for the same space. Even shops here are easily available on rent. It is difficult to find spaces and that too at reasonable rates there (Malviya Nagar),” he added. But even in their new home, problems linger. In the last two-and-a half months, Delhi Police caught and deported at least 180 people from African nations who were allegedly living illegally in Mohan Garden. Police said all 180 people overstayed in the country or were involved in crimes. According to police data, since January 2021, police caught around 250 people from African nations living in Mohan Garden and deported them. Last year, the number of similar violators living in Mohan Garden was 18, police added. Officers involved in these operations said they were going door-to-door to check the papers of foreigners. They added that they launched operation “Varchasv” (domination) after receiving complaints from local residents about alleged criminal activities by the African residents. On October 2, police busted a heroin manufacturing unit from a ground-floor building and arrested three men from R Extension Block of Mohan Garden, who were allegedly living on an expired visa. Police recovered 1.3 kg of heroin and claimed there was a factory on the terrace of this building and launched a crackdown against house owners who give their premises on rent to foreigners without getting their documents verified by police. At least 11 persons from Mohan Garden were booked in this connection under Section 188 of the Indian Penal Code (disobedience to order issued by public servant). It is mandatory to conduct tenant verification in Delhi. Some local residents have also been less than welcoming. Anil Aggarwal, president of the R Block RWA said some “greedy locals” were responsible for the influx of foreigners in the area. “The foreigners are ready to pay twice the rent than locals. This is why their numbers have increased. For those living illegally, the rent is much cheaper compared to the other places in Delhi. From a business point of view, it is working. Not all foreigners are involved in crime, but some of them are and the cases are only increasing,” he said. CRIME AND PUNISHMENT Thousands of people from various African countries live in Delhi but members of the community battle repeated racist attacks and discrimination at the hands of local residents and politicians. In 2014, a midnight raid by a former Delhi minister Somnath Bharti at the house of some foreigners triggered a huge row. Bharti said he merely accompanied the local residents after receiving complaints of drug smuggling and prostitution racket being run by nine women. In 2016, a 29-year-old Congolese teacher was allegedly beaten to death over a petty dispute in south Delhi’s Kishangarh. The same year, in the twin villages of Rajpur Khurd and Maidan Garhi in Chhatarpur, there were four cases of attacks on African nationals. (please check) On September 26,2021, rioting broke out outside the Mohan Garden police station after 100 people from different African countries protested against police and accused them of killing an African national while chasing him. Police say they receive many complaints from local residents against the foreigners in Mohan Garden and its nearby areas such as Uttam Nagar and Dabri. In the first week of November, the police in Dwarka -- the policing district under which Mohan Garden falls -- formed a cell called CAIFAN (Cell Against Illegal Foreigners and Narcotics). The unit has busted at least 200 illegal foreigners and three reported cases of drug smuggling so far. Police claim that in the last two months, CAIFAN has recovered drugs worth ₹120 crore in the international market. “CAIFAN has not been formed to harass legal residents. We are taking action only against those living illegally or without proper documents and indulging in crimes. Our officers are working round the clock and developing intelligence to crack down on illegal activities by foreigners,” said deputy commissioner of police (Dwarka) Shankar Chaudhary. Local residents have cheered the police action and said it will stop Mohan Garden from becoming “infamous as Malviya Nagar”. But the police crackdown has struck fear among many people from African countries, who say they are scared of being targeted. Christian Chinonso, a shopkeeper in Mohan Garden who lives with his wife and children, is one of them, “We have all the necessary papers. We are worried about the high number of foreigners being arrested and deported from here. Police are randomly stopping our people and asking us to produce our papers. I know it is the right thing but this has scared me. I step out only when necessary.” 
17-12-2021||Delhi||2 snatchers drag woman on road for 150 metres at Shalimar Bagh||New Delhi: A 23-year-old woman was injured after two men on a scooter dragged her on the road for nearly 150 metres while trying to snatch her phone at a busy street in northwest Delhi’s Shalimar Bagh on Thursday evening. The incident was captured by the CCTV cameras, and the footage was shared on the social media. The woman, who works as a nursing attendant with a private hospital, was admitted to a nearby hospital from where she was discharged after medical attention later in the night. A case was registered in connection with the snatching incident and teams were formed to identify and nab the suspects, said deputy commissioner of police (northwest) Usha Rangnani.“We have got some clues about the suspects. The information received so far is being developed. The suspects will be caught soon,” said the DCP.Police said the snatching incident took place around 5.30 pm and it came to their notice around 7.30 pm. The nursing attendant was returning home after finishing her day’s duty at a nearby hospital when the scooter-borne snatchers targeted her.She was walking on the roadside when the pillion rider tried to snatch her phone. The woman caught the pillion rider by his jacket. The man who was riding the scooter accelerated the vehicle in a bid to escape from the incident spot. However, the woman did not lose her grip and fell on the road due to the sudden jerk. The snatchers continued riding the scooter at a high speed because of which the woman was dragged on the road. The snatchers took the wrong carriageway after crossing the road intersection, where they had snatched the woman’s phone. The CCTV footage shows that the woman lost her grip on the wrong carriageway and fell on the road just next to a four-wheeler that was coming from the opposite direction. She could have suffered serious injuries or was run over by the four-wheeler had she fallen in front of it. The snatchers managed to flee. Some passersby helped the injured woman and admitted her to the hospital, the police said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/2-snatchers-drag-woman-on-road-for-150-metres-at-shalimar-bagh-101639680829544.html
17-12-2021||Other||Fire breaks out at Rohingya camp in Nuh, 32 shanties gutted||At least 32 shanties at a Rohingya refugee camp in Nuh district were gutted after a massive fire broke out on Wednesday night, displacing more than 100 people. It appears to be a case of electrical short-circuit, officials said, adding that no casualty was reported in the incident.Police said the incident was reported from Chandeni camp 2 at Ferozepur Namak village around 8pm. Sahoon, in-charge of Nuh fire station, said that three fire tenders, two from Nuh and one from Tauru, were sent to the spot within minutes after they received a call. “The fire was controlled in two hours. A short circuit of a wire in one of the shanties is suspected to be the cause. All the shanties made of bamboo, jute and plastic materials were completely gutted,” he said.  According to the officials, the district administration has arranged for temporary accommodation, medical camps, and police deployment for the victims. Varun Singla, superintendent of police, Nuh, said that 10 teams were sent to the village. “We immediately arranged for relief material and ensured their safety and security. We are mobilising NGOs for their rehabilitation,” he said. Shakti Singh, deputy commissioner of Nuh, said that the administration has organised accommodation and food for the 106 displaced people. “Some of them were shifted to a school building and the others to a few houses of villagers. The victims were also given blankets. Today, we arranged for their breakfast, and dry ration kits which will last for 15 days were distributed to each family,” he said. Singh said they are coordinating with state authorities and NGOs to rebuild their shanties and financial aid would also be provided to them for the structures. “Medical facilities have also been provided to them and a team of doctors has been deployed,” he said. According to the officials, 1,695 Rohingya refugees (around 500 families) have been living in 10 refugee camps in Nuh since 2012. These camps are situated in Shahpur Nangli, Ferozepur Namak, Chandeni, Saddik Nagar and Punhana. The victims said that the damage was already done by the time fire tenders reached the site. Kamal Hussain, one of the victims, said that they were preparing dinner when the incident took place. “Our houses were burnt down to ashes within an hour. Nothing is left now. We will have to start all over again,” he said. Ali Johar, a Rohingya youth leader and a resident of the camp who has seen three fire incidents since 2018, said, “Such incidents are bound to happen with the poor living conditions.” Sabber Kyaw Min, founder and director of Rohingya Human Rights Initiative, an NGO that works for the betterment of the community, said that the victims have lost all their belongings, including the documents issued by the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees (UNHCR). “We request the government agencies and the UNHCR to provide them a safe shelter and to fulfil their daily basic needs. It is not the first time such a tragedy has taken place. We urge the Government of India to independently investigate the matter so that no such tragedy takes place in the future,” he said. Jafarullah, a counsellor of the Rohingya Human Rights Initiative, said, “Except three shanties, all have been gutted in fire. People are now homeless. Fortunately, there was no human loss as people ran out of shanties as soon as the fire broke out. A total of 106 people, including children, have been displaced. The authorities and nearby villagers are making arrangements for temporary accommodation in a school, a madrasa and nearby houses for the refugees,” he said. The Rohingyas are a Muslim minority community from Myanmar. According to the UNHCR, Rohingya refugees are spread across six locations in India — Jammu, Nuh, Delhi, Hyderabad, Jaipur and Chennai. 
17-12-2021||Delhi||Delhi’s max temp below 20°C as air stays ‘very poor’||Delhi recorded a relatively cold day on Thursday, with the maximum temperature settling at 19.8 degrees Celsius – three below normal for this time of the season, even as the minimum temperature rose for the third straight day, touching 8.7°CParts of Delhi could see a drizzle early on Friday under the influence of a western disturbance, the weather office said, with the caveat that this is unlikely to significantly impact the city’s air quality, which stayed in the ‘very poor’ category on Thursday.Scientists from the India Meteorological Department (IMD) also said the temperature is likely to fall below 6°C from Saturday. R.K Jenamani, scientist at IMD, said this western disturbance is fairly weak, like the previous two in the first week of December, and will bring Delhi minimal rain. “It will bring snow to the mountains, but very little will change for Delhi. The minimum temperature has risen due to this western disturbance, but will fall to between 5 and 6°C from December 18-21,” he said.At 7.8°C, Ridge and Aya Nagar recorded the city’s lowest minimum temperatures on Thursday, and Mayur Vihar recorded the city’s lowest maximum, at 18.9°C. Delhi is also likely to record shallow fog on Friday, with maximum and minimum temperatures around 20°C and 8°C respectively.Meanwhile, the air quality index (AQI) continued in the ‘very poor’ level for a fourth straight day.The city logged a 24-hour average AQI of 368 (very poor), according to the Central Pollution Control Board’s 4pm bulletin on Thursday, marginally worse than 363 on Wednesday.According to the System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting and Research (Safar), a government forecasting body, AQI will remain in a similar range in the next two days, with some improvement expected from December 17. “From December 17 onwards, an improvement in AQI is likely due to high wind speeds which will keep AQI within the ‘poor’ or the lower end of the ‘very poor’ category,” said Safar on Thursday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhis-max-temp-below-20-c-as-air-stays-very-poor-101639680771519.html
17-12-2021||Delhi||Understanding the global Omicron threat||On Wednesday, the World Health Organization (WHO) said that preliminary evidence appears to indicate that vaccines may be less effective against infection and transmission linked to the Omicron variant of Sars-CoV-2, which also carries a “higher risk of re-infection”. According to data compiled by GISAID, a global science initiative that provides open-access to genomic data of influenza viruses, a total of 60 countries have so far submitted to it sequencing data that shows the presence of this highly mutated variant on their shores.With its ability to evade vaccines and higher transmissibility, the new variant has sparked concerns that it could drag the fight against the pandemic back several months. The expanding global spread of Omicron Of the 60 countries that have confirmed Omicron infections to GISAID, the United Kingdom has the largest share with 4,120 confirmed sequences of the variant till December 13, the latest date for which this information is available. It is followed by South Africa with 1,000 samples, the United States with 321 samples, Denmark with 216, and Switzerland with 125.[Map: Countries with identified Omicron infections, as per data submitted to GISAID] A better picture is provided by looking at the share of Omicron in all cases in these countries in this period. South Africa, unsurprisingly, with 90.1% of all infections being Omicron features among the top, closely behind Mozambique where the heavily mutated variant constituted 94.4% of all samples sequenced.To be sure, the Delta variant still easily remains the world’s most dominant variant, accounting for 97.9% of the nearly 3.17 million genome sequences uploaded in the four weeks ending December 13 to GISAID. But the real cause of worry is that despite Omicron barely being flagged in even half GISAID’s 60-day sample period, it has already outstripped the combined proportion of the Alpha, Beta and Gamma variants. A total of 6,700 samples – about 2.1% – were Omicron and the other three variants of concern together numbered 22, less than 0.01% each in GISAID’s database.A week ago, Delta’s share was 99.2% while Omicron’s share was 0.4% in the same database.[Chart 1: Countries highest proportion of Omicron infections] Regions where the new variant is taking hold are not faring well A key characteristic of Omicron that has been observed is that it can lead to a massive spike in new cases. For instance, in South Africa, on average, there have been 22,852 new Covid-19 cases every day in the past week – far surpassing the previous peak of 19,766 cases a day in the first week of July this year. South Africa, however, is far from being the only that has seen a record spike at the same time that Omicron infections have seen a spike. On Wednesday, the United Kingdom recorded 78,610 new Covid-19 cases — the highest in a single day since the start of the pandemic. This has pushed the seven-day average of daily infections to 57,417 – just below the peak of 59,508 touched on January 8. Similar peaks can be seen even in smaller countries such as Norway and South Korea where the share of Omicron cases in the overall new infection tally has been rising in recent days. In each of these countries, the seven-day average of daily infections is currently at the highest ever , according to data gathered by Our World in Data. In Norway, there has been an average of 4,925 new cases a day in the past week, while in South Korea this number is 6,790. The corresponding charts also show that the share of Omicron cases have been increasing at the same time in these countries.[Chart 2: New Covid-19 infections and proportion of Omicron cases in South Africa, the UK, Norway and South Korea] Omicron appears to be single-handedly capable of pushing new waves To truly understand the impact that Omicron can have on the outbreak in a region, it is crucial to look at how these infections are changing the outlook of the Covid wave. Very few countries (or even localised regions) consistently release data on the spread of particular variant. This exercise is generally done so by extrapolating genome sequencing data on the overall case turnout. This system is utilised by agencies such as the US’ Centers for Disease Control and Prevention to determine a prevalence of a variant — on Wednesday, it estimated that 2.9% of new Covid cases emerging in America were Omicron. However, one advantage that Omicron’s heavily mutated nature offers is that in a widely used RT-PCR test, one of the three target genes is not detected (called S-gene dropout) and this can therefore be used as marker for this variant, while sequencing is awaited. Using this approach, some regions have been tracking this variant at near real-time, offering early clues on how prevalent it is.In London, the prevalence for Omicron cases (those with S-gene dropout) has been steadily rising. In the past week, 38.4% of all infections in the British capital have been Omicron cases. But what is even more alarming is that on a daily level, this proportion is rising fast — on December 12 (latest date for which data is available) 1,669 of the city’s 2,779 Covid cases were Omicron (60.1%), according to data released by the UK Health Security Agency. Similarly, this proportion is also rising in Denmark (the only other major region which is currently publicly releasing S-gene dropout data). In just 10 days between December 1 and December 11, daily Omicron proportion has gone from 1.6% to 15.6%, data shows. In both these regions, a worrying trend is that Omicron appears to be the cause of the spike in new infections as the new cases of the other variants appear to be stagnant.[Chart 3: New cases of other variants and Omicron variants in London and Denmark] 
17-12-2021||Delhi||Three murders in two days reported in Delhi||Three persons, including a minor girl, were killed over trivial issues in three separate murder cases reported from south and east Delhi areas between December 13 and 15. All the three cases were solved with the arrest of the alleged accused, police said.In the first case, a 16-year-old girl was killed after the alleged live-in partner of her mother slit her throat with a knife following an altercation during which they slapped each other in south Delhi’s Jasola Vihar on Wednesday afternoon, police said.The suspect, identified as Shan Mohammad,32, was caught in the evening while he was trying to escape to Uttarakhand. His interrogation revealed that the girl used to insult him for having a relationship with her mother and surviving on her earnings. Also, the man used to object and stop her from having long telephonic conversations with her relative in the absence of her mother, the police said.On Wednesday, an altercation took place between them over the same issue. The man slapped the girl after which she slapped her back. In a fit of rage, he picked up a knife and slit her throat, killing her on the spot, said a senior police officer, associated with the crime.Deputy commissioner of police (southeast) Esha Pandey said that around 2 pm on Wednesday, the Sarita Vihar police station received a call regarding a girl’s mother at her home in Janta flats in Jasola Vihar. A police team reached the house and learnt that the girl named Ruksar, was found dead on a folding cot by her mother, Reshma, who worked as a domestic help in a nearby residential colony.The woman told the police that she had left home in the morning, leaving her daughter and Shan Mohammad, whom she had adopted as her son. When she returned home around 1.30 pm, she found the house locked from outside. She tried to contact her daughter and Mohammad. The girl’s phone was not reachable while Mohammad’s response over the phone made Reshma suspicious. With some neighbours’ help, the lock was broken and the girl’s woman was found in a room, the DCP said.A case of murder was registered and teams were tasked to identify the whereabouts of Mohammad, as he was the prime suspect in the case. Through technical surveillance, the teams located Mohammad in east Delhi and caught him while he was trying to leave for Uttarakhand.“Mohammad confessed to the crime and revealed that he killed Reshma in a fit of rage because she had slapped him. He claims he was drunk at the time of the crime. After killing Ruksar, he panicked and locked the house before fleeing,” added DCP Pandey.In the second case, a 30-year-old man was killed after he was repeatedly attacked in the head with an iron pipe by his friend following an altercation that started over playing cards in a tempo in south Delhi’s Kotla Mubarakpur on December 13. The suspect, Dharmendra Singh, who fled the crime scene, was arrested from his native village in Uttar Pradesh’s Unnao on December 15, the police said.“They fought over the issue of who won the playing card game. Singh attacked Deepu with an iron pipe and fled. Deepu was admitted to a hospital, where he succumbed to his head injuries,” said deputy commissioner of police (south) Benita Mary Jaiker.In the third case, a 25-year-old man was killed after he was thrashed by a group of five-six men who suspected him of stealing the mobile phone of one of the them in east Delhi’s Trilokpuri on December 14. The victim, identified as Mohammad Shabir, was found injured and unconscious near a park I Trilokpuri. He was admitted to Guru Teg Bahadur hospital, where he succumbed to his injuries the next morning.“We have arrested two suspects, including Keshav, who accused Shabir of stealing his mobile phone,” said a police officer, who did not want to be named.Ends||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/three-murders-in-two-days-reported-in-delhi-101639680719666.html
17-12-2021||Mumbai||Ample proof available of dual identities of NCB’s Sameer Wankhede, father: Nawab Malik||Ample proof is available of the dual identities adopted by Dnyandev Wankhede and his son Sameer Wankhede, Mumbai zonal director of the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) for their personal benefit, NCP leader Nawab Malik has claimed in his affidavit in response to the defamation suit filed by Dnyandev Wankhede before the Bombay high court. Malik in his affidavit stated that the tweets by him were intended to only expose the illegalities committed by Sameer Wankhede while securing a job through the reserved category quota and misusing his position in the NCB. The affidavit added that there was no malice intended on his part while making revelations on social media and the suit was intended to curtail his fundamental right to freedom of speech and expression. Referring to the maintainability of the suit, Malik has stated that the relief sought against him by Dnyandev Wankhede are only intended to suppress the facts which he has been exposing about Sameer Wankhede. The affidavit states that the relief sought cannot be granted as they are intended to benefit persons who are not party to the suit. “All the material/evidence published by me shows the illegal manner in which Mr Sameer Wankhede has acquired his job and also the illegalities in the manner in which he has discharged his duties as a public official,” the affidavit states. Stating that the claim by Dnyandev Wankhede in the suit that he (Malik) had started the slur campaign against Sameer Wankhede after his son-in-law Sameer Khan was arrested by the NCB and released after being kept behind bars for almost eight months was false and he had been questioning the working of NCB even before his son-in-law was arrested. Malik has stated that he had made statements as the national spokesperson of the NCP in November 2020 against the action being taken by NCB against consumers of drugs and not tracking down and arresting drug traffickers/suppliers for the sake of publicity. With regards to the posting of the birth certificate, school leaving certificates and nikahnama of Sameer Wankhede online, Malik’s affidavit states, “This material was published by me after reasonably verifying the truth of the same and believing the same to be true. The material available on record shows that Mr Sameer Wankhede is leading a dual life i.e. as a Muslim and as a Hindu. He has illegally obtained his job under ‘Scheduled Caste’ (SC) category thereby depriving a genuine SC candidate of the opportunity of employment and livelihood by suppressing that he was born a Muslim.” The affidavit while referring to the illegalities committed by Sameer Wankhede in the course of his duty as NCB zonal director states that during raids the officer has given a complete go by to the procedure and indulged in activities which are likely to compromise the investigations carried out under his charge. The affidavit states that he (Malik) has posted evidence to show that the pancha Mr Fletcher Patel called by Wankhede during raids was known to him and his family. The affidavit states that the revelation by Prabhakar Sail, a witness in the Aryan Khan case wherein he has alleged that Wankhede had made him sign 10 blank pages as a panch witness shows that Sameer Wankhede has been resorting to illegal procedures in the course of discharging his duties. Malik has further reiterated his stand that both Dnyandev Wankhede and his son have been involved in illegal activities by referring to the liquor license issued to a hotel in Vashi in the name of Sameer Wankhede in 1997. The affidavit states that the license was issued to Sameer by the excise department even though he was only 17 years old at the time and Dnyandev was also working as an officer in the said department. The affidavit also claims that the revelations made by him (Malik) regarding the illegalities by Sameer Wankhede have helped the appropriate agencies/authorities to initiate appropriate steps against the erring public servant. The affidavit states that the transfer of six cases being investigated by Sameer to NCB vigilance was an example of the effect of his revelations. The defamation suit by Dnyandev Wankhede is expected to come up for rehearing on his interim plea before a single judge bench in due course.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/ample-proof-available-of-dual-identities-of-ncb-s-sameer-wankhede-father-nawab-malik-101639680718262.html
17-12-2021||Lucknow||Two shot dead in Agra village after dispute||Agra Two men of the same family were shot dead in broad daylight after a dispute over water entering their farm land in Chitrapura village under Kheda Rathod police station of Agra on Thursday. The duo, identified as Mahesh Kumar (38) and Dinesh Kumar (35), both cousins, was declared dead after being rushed to a nearby hospital. SSP Agra Sudhir Kumar Singh reached the village in the wake of the double murder. “Mahesh Kumar and Dinesh Kumar had complained that water from another field was entering their farm area and were going to object against this to the family of Kalyan Singh alias Kallu of the same village,” said the SSP. “There was no other ongoing dispute between the two families and a dispute in the past had been resolved. However, the incident today claimed two lives from a family. The accused have fled from their houses and hunt is on to nab them. Teams have been constituted and the guilty will be placed behind bars soon,” claimed SSP Agra. An FIR was registered under Section 302 of IPC (murder) at Kheda Rathod police station against five named accused, including Kalyan Singh alias Kallu, Ghanshyam Singh, Ashok Singh, Hukum Singh and Shiv Kumar, informed police sources at Kheda Rathod police station. Police force was deployed in the village and the bodies were sent for post mortem examination.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/two-shot-dead-in-agra-village-after-dispute-101639680717065.html
17-12-2021||Delhi||New regional plan proposes a ‘30-minute NCR’||The National Capital Region Planning Board (NCRPB) has proposed several measures in the draft Regional Plan-2041 for sustainable development of the region, including limiting the National Capital Region (NCR) to a 100km radius from Rajghat in Delhi, and the reduction of travel time between NCR cities to 30 minutes. The NCRPB has invited public comments on the draft plan until January 7.The NCR, which includes Delhi and 24 districts from Haryana, Uttar Pradesh, and Rajasthan, is spread over 55,083sqkm. Its size has increased by almost 20,000sqkm since 2005. The present NCR, according to the Regional Plan-2041, is bigger than states such as Punjab, Uttarakhand, Kerala, and Sikkim.The latest document notes that despite two long-term regional plans there has been haphazard growth in the NCR.Delineation of NCRThere is a need for a compact area to ensure planned development of the region, a senior official of the planning board who asked not to be named said.In October, the NCRBP in-principle approved a proposal to limit the NCR to a 100km radius from Rajghat in Delhi. “Beyond the 100km radius and up to the existing NCR boundary, all notified cities/ towns along with a corridor of 1km on either side of connecting expressways/national highways/state highways/the Regional Rapid Transit System will be included,” the official said.While the delineation exercise is still going on, the NCRBP said the redefined boundaries will come into effect after being notified by the Union ministry of housing and urban affairs.According to the regional plan, there will be no change in the number of areas from Uttar Pradesh that is part of NCR now. But Rajasthan is yet to work out the area to be included in NCR, and the Haryana government has given tentative details, following which the total NCR area (25,327 sqkm) will reduce to 10, 546 sqkm.Transport and mobilityTo address the problem of increasing vehicular traffic, the draft plan proposes improving regional transport connectivity. Lack of adequate regional public transport and poor frequency, lack of integration of the system, and multiple interchanges are major issues being faced by the commuters in the region, according to the plan.“It is necessary to minimise journey time across NCR areas... Delhi should have 30-minute connectivity through superfast trains with major cities of NCR,” the plan says.With the people living in the NCR region facing several issues due to the closure of interstate borders last year due to the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic, the plan proposes, “Steps shall be taken to prevent the closure of interstate borders by NCR states, except in emergency situations like crime control etc.”It also proposes an elevated or at grade Outer Ring Road to be constructed parallel to the existing outer ring road in Delhi, as well as the development of integrated multimodal transport hubs, among other measures.Sewa Ram, professor of transport planning at the School of Planning and Architecture, said, “The plan focuses on multimodal facilities, including freight. With mass transit systems such as RRTS coming up in the NCR, there is a need to have multimodal integrated transport hubs.”Area development and resource managementThe plan promotes mixed land use development in the NCR. It pushes for Transit-Oriented Development and greenfield development projects in the sub-regions. With a lot of villages falling in the newly urbanised areas, the regional plan stresses on the need for a comprehensive scheme for the redevelopment of villages.The plan proposes that the Delhi Land Reforms Act should be repealed to ensure the planned development of rural areas. “Archaic laws like Delhi Land Reforms Act, etc. hold back development and create islands of chaos like Lal Dora/ Extended Lal Dora, etc,” the plan says.Paras Tyagi, a resident of Budhela village who runs the Centre for Youth Culture and Law and Environment, a voluntary group working in the rural belts in Delhi, said, “We have been talking about the need for a village development plan. While the regional plan talks about it, there is no effort in Delhi to implement it. As for the land reforms law, it should have been repealed long back. Landowners have been facing a lot of problems due to the current law.”The plan also proposes measures for developing the NCR as a heritage and tourist hub, managing water requirement and sanitation issues, promoting economic growth, etc.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/new-regional-plan-proposes-a-30-minute-ncr-101639680658376.html
17-12-2021||Delhi||System to gauge role of pollutants in fog, visibility forecasts in Delhi-NCR||The Indian Institute of Tropical Meteorology has developed an early warning and prediction system, which will for the first time take into account the role of pollution in causing foggy conditions and low visibility in Delhi-NCR during the winter season, scientists said on Thursday.They said the new system will also enable agencies to avoid flight delays and cancellations, while making available forecasts for the public.The fog prediction system, which has now been launched by IITM in collaboration with the United Kingdom’s Met office, on an experimental basis, will give out advance forecasts of fog and visibility status in the Indo-Gangetic Plains (IGP), while also outlining how aerosols impact foggy conditions and visibility.Currently, the system makes predictions two days in advance, but the technology is being studied and changes will be made in the coming weeks before the portal is made public, scientists said.“Under the project initiated by the Union ministry of earth science, we took a deep dive into understanding fog in Delhi nearly three to four years ago. Based on our knowledge and learning, we have launched the fog prediction system on a pilot basis. This will not only help agencies prepare for severe fog spells that Delhi sees in December and January, but also forecast these conditions make it available for public consumption,” said Sachin Ghude, a scientist at IITM Pune, who is also the lead for the government’s Winter Fog Experiment (WiFEX).The site, through various graphical representations, will give a clear picture of the range of visibility that the city is likely to see at any given hour of the day, the possibility of dense fog (visibility below 200 metres), presence of dust in the air, the size of dust particles and its impact on visibility.For example, for December 17, the fog forecast said the visibility in Delhi is likely to be above 2,000 metres in the morning hours and will consistently improve as the day progresses.Gaurav Govardhan, a scientist at IITM, and a member of the team that developed the system, said aerosols or pollutants cause formation of fog droplets.“The technology is the same as we use for general weather forecasting— just that this time, we are taking into account the impact of aerosols or pollutants on fog formation. Aerosols can help in the formation of fog droplets, which essentially means that more pollutants in the air the greater is the possibility of the formation of fog droplets. You don’t need very humid air for fog,” Govardhan said.
17-12-2021||Lucknow||Country needs Ram Rajya, not socialism: Yogi||In a jibe at the Opposition, particularly the Samajwadi Party (SP), chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Thursday said the country needs “Ram Rajya”, not Samajwad (socialism) or Samyavad (communism).He was speaking in the UP legislative assembly while making some populist announcements after minister for finance Suresh Khanna presented the second supplementary demands for grants for 2021-22 in the House. “We have already said that this country neither needs communism or socialism. This country only wants Ram Rajya and Uttar Pradesh only wants Ram Rajya. Ram Rajya means the one which is everlasting, universal and eternal, not affected by circumstances,” Yogi said.Yogi also used the occasion to target Samajwadi Party chief Akhilesh Yadav for his Jinnah remarks (without naming him).He said socialism was the biggest dogma and the Samajwadi Party (SP) was pursuing different brands of socialism that include “parivarvadi” (dynastic socialism), mafiavadi (mafia socialism), arajaktavadi (anarchist socialism), dangawadi (riot socialism) and atankvadi samjwad ( terrorist socialism).“The people take Samajwad as a red alert now,” he said.Continuing his attack on the SP, he said, “When they celebrated Saifai Mahotsav a special buggy (wagon) was called from England.”Yogi also questioned the SP leadership for banning Krishna Janmashtami celebrations in jails.“If Janmashtami can’t be celebrated in jails then where?” he asked. He targeted the SP government for changing the names of institutions that had been set up in the name of Baba Saheb Bhimrao Ambedkar and Kanshi Ram.He said his government, however, changed the names of cities to Prayagraj and Ayodhya that find a mention in the epics.Yogi said 25 crore people of the state were a family for his government while during the previous regimes, different family members of those in power — ‘chacha’, ‘bhatija’, ‘mama’, ‘nana’ — indulged in extortion.“We did not differentiate among people of different classes and communities and followed the principle of ‘sabka saath, sabkaa vikas’ for the state’s development… Mafia cancelling bail to go back to jail is an example of the functioning of this government…The Opposition is not affected by suicide of farmers and hunger of the poor and instead was affected when bulldozers demolished the property of the mafia,” he said.Yogi also said, “A hug with the mafia gives them a feeling of being in heaven.” He also said a competition is going on among the mafia to join different political parties. This will be good if the mafia becomes the cause of their defeat in the 2022 assembly polls, he added.Listing his government’s achievements, Yogi, in his nearly two-hour speech, said UP was the first state to honour every medal winner and participant in the Olympics.“We are also setting up a sports university in Meerut in the hockey legend Dhyan Chand. But what connection you have with sports? Your sport was ‘tamancha’ (country made pistol),” he said in a dig at the Opposition.Leader of opposition Ram Govind Chaudhary (SP) sought to counter the attack by saying let there be a wrestling match or of any other sport between the government and the opposition and the people would know about the real sportsperson.“I have been a wrestler and you have been into wrestling too. Let there be a match here,” said Chaudhary.Though his government was about to complete five years in office it only got 3.5 years to work as a period of about 20 months was spent in the fight against Covid-19, Yogi said. He referred to the work done by his government to fight Covid-19. He also recited a poem by former PM Atal Bihari Vajpayee.Targeting the opposition, he said, “They home quarantined themselves during fight against the Covid-19 wave. Now the people will home quarantine you.”In a lighter vein, Yogi used the occasion to give an open invitation to Ram Govind Chaudhary to join the BJP.“I want you to be active in the field. We can open ways for your induction in the BJP,” he said.Chaudhary, however, said he would remain in the SP throughout his life.“Look at what your party (SP) is doing. The late (former PM) Chandra Shekhar never allowed his family members in politics. You are a follower of Chandra Shekhar who set standards in politics. His son is now with us,” Yogi said.The CM claimed that Prime Minister Narendra Modi realised the dream of socialist leader Ram Manohar Lohia. Lohia had said that no power in the country will be able to remove a government, which builds toilets for the poor and keeps their stoves burning, the chief minister said, referring to works done by the Centre. “Lohia had said that a true socialist would stay away from property. The socialist should keep away from property and progeny,” Yogi said.(WITH PTI INPUTS)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/country-needs-ram-rajya-not-socialism-yogi-101639680651619.html
17-12-2021||Lucknow||Akhilesh, uncle Shivpal form alliance ahead of UP elections||A five-year-old feud within Uttar Pradesh’s influential Yadav family finally ended on Thursday with Samajwadi Party chief Akhilesh Yadav announcing an alliance with his estranged uncle Shivpal Yadav for the upcoming state polls.Akhilesh drove to Shivpal’s residence in Lucknow and later tweeted a photo with his uncle, who left the SP and formed the Pragatisheel Samajwadi Party-Lohia (PSP-L) in 2019.”Met PSP-L national president and the alliance has been decided. The policy of taking along regional parties has continuously strengthened Samajwadi Party and taking the SP and alliance partners towards historic victory,” said Akhilesh.Later in the day, Shivpal also tweeted the picture of the two. ”Today the Samajwadi Party national president Akhilesh Yadav ji had a courtesy meeting with me at (my) residence. During the meeting, I had a long discussion with him over the strategy of contesting the forthcoming assembly elections 2022 together,” he said.This is the sixth alliance forged by the SP, which is aiming to dislodge the Bharatiya Janata Party from power in Uttar Pradesh in elections scheduled early next year. On November 3, Akhilesh had hinted about an alliance with PSP-L at his ancestral village Saifai in Etawah district of UP. Shivpal, the younger brother of Akhilesh’s father and SP founder Mulayam Singh Yadav, was considered a top leader of the SP and served as a senior minister when Akhilesh was chief minister between 2012 and 2017.But the two leaders had a bitter fallout over control of the party before the 2017 assembly elections. Beginning August 2016, both leaders hurled verbal barbs at each other for months, eventually leading to more dissension in the party and its poor performance in the 2017 assembly elections, when it was routed from everywhere except its pocket boroughs in central UP.Shivpal floated the PSP-L before the 2019 Lok Sabha elections. He contested against SP candidate and then sitting MP Akshay Yadav from Firozabad. However, both lost as the BJP wrested the seat from the SP. Shivpal has had limited electoral success but continues to wield influence in districts like Etawah, Mainpuri, Forozabad, Agra and Mathura.On Thursday, as the two leaders came together, hundreds of supporters of both parties gathered outside Shivpal’s residence, raising the slogan “chacha bhatija zindabad (long live the uncle and nephew)”.“This is a happy and positive political development. This will strengthen the anti-BJP forces and consolidate the Lohiawadi and socialist movement in the country. Shivpalji had always been trying for this alliance for removal of the BJP,” said Deepak Mishra, a PSP-L leader.Samajwadi Party state spokesperson Rajendra Chaudhary said “Akhilesh Yadav ji is allying with small, regional parties. And SP will form the next government”.
