19-12-2021||Lucknow||Lucknow: Mega drone show to mark Amrit Mahotsav today||Lucknow The state capital will witness the country’s largest ever drone show to mark the celebrations of Amrit Mahotsav, 75 years of India’s independence, on Monday. The show will be based on the theme of Indian freedom struggle and held at The Residency, Lucknow. Chief minister Yogi Adityanath will be the chief guest in the mega drone show, organised by the Union ministry of culture, and department of tourism and culture, Uttar Pradesh. The minister of state for culture Meenakshi Lekhi and other ministers will also be present on the occasion. A light and sound show on the history of The Residency will also be inaugurated the same day. The story of the first Indian freedom struggle from 1857 to 1947 would be presented through 500 drones in the sky accompanied by music, laser light and colourful drone acrobatics. For this, around 500 drones have been brought from Russia and a special team of drone engineers is camping here. Earlier in 2020, 250 drones had presented the similar show in Mumbai and 100 drones in Prayagraj Kumbh. The entry for the programme is free and participants are requested to take their seats by 5.00pm.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/lucknow-mega-drone-show-to-mark-amrit-mahotsav-today-101639938563075.html
19-12-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra to spend bulk of clean air funds on electrifying public transport||Mumbai: The Maharashtra government plans to spend a significant majority of clean air funding obtained under the 15th Finance Commission (FC) on electrifying public transport under its Electric Vehicle (EV) Policy 2021. The policy aims at bringing at least 1,46,000 new battery-operated electric vehicles (BEVs) on state roads by 2025, estimated to comprise about 10% of all new vehicle registrations by that time.Maharashtra has been allotted a total corpus of ₹2981 crore, at the recommendation of the 15th FC, specifically to address air pollution in the state. The funds are to be utilised by the end of the financial year 2026. Of the ₹2773 crore which the state government plans to spend by the end of FY2025, a clean 80% (or ₹2218 crore) is proposed to be spent on the EV Policy, primarily on electrifying bus fleets in major urban clusters. “These buses will not be purchased, but the transport department will use the funds to subsidise contractors’ costs for one year,” said an MPCB official in the know of the matter.The balance ₹555 crore are to be spent on local interventions, such as increasing Maharashtra’s air quality monitoring network (3%), implementing dust control measures (8%), and regulating construction (4%), industries (2% ), bakeries and crematoria (3%).Confirming these details, Dr VM Motghare, joint director (air quality), Maharashtra Pollution Control Board (MPCB), said, “Since vehicular emissions are a leading cause of air pollution, we have decided to utilise the 15th FC funds to boost electrification of public vehicles in six urban agglomerations, including Greater Mumbai, Pune, Nashik, Nagpur, Aurangabad and Vasai-Virar. These funds are not the same as those obtained under the National Clean Air Program. That is a different corpus, and applies to different cities.”The move has drawn mixed reactions from experts. While some said the move is strategically sound, others feared that allotting a disproportionate amount of clean air funds to a macro-level policy will take away local resources to fight air pollution. Aarti Khosla, director of advocacy group Climate Trends, said, “ ₹2700 odd crore is not a huge amount to begin with, so perhaps the state has decided to put its heft behind a single goal. That makes sense, because public transport needs to be cleaned up. Alternate sources of funding for the EV Policy can be tapped into later. But the policy’s target, of converting 10% of new vehicle registrations in four years, could be more ambitious.”Others said that the move is an innovative one, and should be taken note of by other cities. Tanushree Ganguly, from the Delhi-based think tank Council on Energy, Environment and Water, said, “ULBs tend to underestimate the contribution of road dust resuspension to air pollution, so it would be cautious to pay a little more attention to that. But at the same time no other state has tried this model, of using FC funds single-mindedly to clean up the public transport system. That is noteworthy.Not all agreed, though. “It is a no-brainer that the transport sector is one of the greatest contributors to air pollution. It’s a positive step that Maharashtra is planning to address the issue. But diverting about 80% of the FC funds towards EVs could be thought through. Cities also face other sources of air pollution, from poor waste management practices to rampant construction and industrial emissions. These areas are equally deserving of targeted policies and interventions. I would urge Maharashtra to balance out the funds among other sectors,” said Dr Anjal Prakash, research director at the Indian School of Business (ISB) and a lead author of the ongoing 6th Assessment report of the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (where he is involved in the chapter on cities, settlements and key infrastructure).A senior official in the transport department, seeking anonymity, said that the state government is also considering other modes of funding the EV Policy, such as levying green taxes on polluting vehicles, to subsidise private EV purchases under the new policy. “But the details of this are yet to be worked out. The governing committee will deliberate and seek inputs from other departments, including environment, revenue and transport,” the official said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-to-spend-bulk-of-clean-air-funds-on-electrifying-public-transport-101639938263878.html
19-12-2021||Other||Gurugram: Testing camps come up at markets, crowded places||In the wake of rising concerns over new Covid-19 variant Omicron, the Gurugram health department has started setting up testing camps in markets and crowded places across the district, officials said. Besides, the department has planned to test about 55,000 samples in the next 12 days of December, the officials said. “Since the start of this month, we have tried to maintain a daily average of testing 4,000 samples. On some days we have conducted over 4,200 tests also. We are aiming to conduct 125,000 tests this month. As Delhi is reporting cases of Omicron, our focus is completely on testing and samples of all those who test positive are being sent for genome sequencing. So far, none of the international travellers or locals tested positive for Omicron variant in Gurugram,” said Dr Jai Prakash, district surveillance officer. Till Sunday this month, the health department has tested 72,586 samples, the officials said, adding that they have increased testing this month. In the past two months, the health department tested over 90,000 samples for Covid-19. During the peak of second Covid-19 wave, in April and May, the district health department had conducted over 276,000 and 284,000 tests, respectively, according to data from the district health department. In June, the testing numbers had reduced to 119,000, shows the data. The district surveillance officer further said that along with testing at designated government and private centres, the district health department has also started setting up testing camps at markets and crowded areas once again. Last week, testing camps were organised at Sadar Bazar and Galleria market, among other places. Of 13,016 international travellers who entered the district since November 26, as many as 2,665 were from high-risk countries, the officials said. Meanwhile, the district administration has appealed to people to also take their second dose of vaccine against Covid-19 whenever their turn comes. Yash Garg, deputy commissioner of Gurugram, said, “It is being noticed that some citizens in the district are not that interested in taking the second dose after taking their first jab. The thought of being safe from infection by taking a single dose of vaccine can prove to be a big mistake. Vaccine and Covid-19 appropriate behaviour are the only things that can prevent spread of the infection further.” Dr Virender Yadav, chief medical officer of Gurugram, said, “The vaccination campaign has made a special contribution to the joint programme of the health department and the district administration to control the spread of Covid-19 infection. But a large number of people are not taking their second dose within the stipulated time frame. As of December 18, almost 55,000 people are yet to take their second dose.” On Sunday, 9,115 people were vaccinated in the district. Till now, over 4.10 million doses of vaccine have been administered in the district. Meanwhile, on Sunday, Gurugram recorded 16 fresh Covid-19 cases, along with 16 recoveries, according to data from the state government. At present, there are 99 active cases in the district, of which 97 are under home isolation and two are hospitalised, the officials said. In December so far, 234 positive cases have been reported, while a total of 278 cases were recorded in November. In October, the district had reported only 198 positive cases, shows the data.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/gurugram-testing-camps-come-up-at-markets-crowded-places-101639938203866.html
19-12-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai’s air quality improves; one notch under ‘poor’ category||Mumbai: The city recorded an Air Quality Index (AQI) value of 200 on Sunday, just one notch short of the ‘poor’ category. This was down from an AQI of 300 the previous day, which marked the worst air quality of the season. Mumbai had seen high pollution levels on Friday as well when the AQI touched 262.An AQI of 100 to 199 is considered ‘moderate’, while 50 to 99 is considered ‘satisfactory’ and below 50 is considered ‘good’. AQI over 200 is considered ‘poor’, above 300 is ‘very poor’, above 400 is ‘severe’ and above 500 is considered ‘severe+’.The improvement in air quality, officials said, was due to a slight increase in daytime temperature followed by faster winds during the afternoon. Sunday’s daytime maximum temperature was 32.6 degrees Celsius, up from 31.5 degrees Celsius the day prior.“When temperatures rise, wind speeds also pick up. The increase in daytime temperature on Sunday could have helped disperse the pollutants which had accumulated due to slightly cooler conditions on Friday and Saturday,” said an official with the India Meteorological Department’s regional forecasting centre in Mumbai.Malad and Andheri were the most polluted locations among SAFAR’s monitoring network, with AQIs of 323 and 301 respectively, in the ‘very poor’ category. This was followed by Mazagaon (297), Chembur (252), BKC (249), Bhandup (215), Colaba (176), Borivali (159, Navi Mumbai (150), Worli (121).The minimum temperature on Sunday morning stood at 19.8 degrees Celsius (up slightly from 19.6 the day prior). Mumbai has reported lower than normal temperatures since Tuesday this week, after the temporary onset of cooling, north-easterly winds.As per IMD’s seven-day forecast for the city, there will be a gradual decrease in temperature over the next week. The daytime maximum is expected to settle around 28 degrees Celsius by December 24, while the minimum is expected to dip more sharply, touching 16 degrees Celsius by December 24.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbais-air-quality-improves-one-notch-under-poor-category-101639938083638.html
19-12-2021||Lucknow||Varanasi reports two fresh Covid cases||Three days after becoming a Coronavirus free district, Varanasi reported two fresh Covid cases on Saturday.Varanasi had zero Covid patients on December 15, but on December 18, an 11-year-old girl and a 68-year-old person, both residents of the Meerapur Basahi area of Varanasi, tested positive, said the health officials.Samples of the infected persons have been sent to King George’s Medical University (KGMU), Lucknow, for genome sequencing, said the health officials. The health department is awaiting the report.CMO Dr Sandeep Chaudhary said that both the patients of Meerapur Basahi picked up the infection after coming in contact with a family member who had gone to Lucknow for treatment.On Saturday, a total of 5,910 people were tested in hospitals, airports and other places in the district. Reports of 5,791 have been received so far.The CMO appealed to the people to take preventive measures to stop the spread of Covid infection. He urged people to wear masks when they go out and avoid going to crowded places.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/varanasi-reports-two-fresh-covid-cases-101639937785482.html
19-12-2021||Other||Gurugram: New inmates at Bhondsi jail to undergo five tests||Authorities at the Bhondsi jail have started getting the new inmates tested for five medical conditions before they are allowed entry into the jail. The officials said along with RT-PCR test for Covid-19 they have decided to get Hepatitis B and C, HIV and urine tests done as the prison department wants to ensure timely treatment of any substance abuse cases or any other ailments. Muhammad Akil, director general of police (prison), said on Sunday that this is the first time they are conducting these tests and rest of the jails will follow this initiative. “A thorough health check-up of every prisoner is done on the same day of his admission in the prison by the medical officer of prison department. Hepatitis B and C, HIV and urine tests of every newly admitted prisoner are being done to ensure timely treatment of any substance abuse or any other ailment,” he said. Earlier, the prison department used to conduct only RT-PCR test of an inmate during admission and other tests were conducted during regular health check-ups. Many inmates tested positive for HIV and Hepatitis and got delayed treatment due to late diagnosis, said the officials. Dr Gaurav Godara, medical officer of Bhondsi jail, said that on an average about 30 fresh inmates are getting admitted daily. “As soon as the inmates are brought to the jail in the evening, we conduct all the prescribed tests these days. The inmates are kept in isolation rooms unless their reports are out, and those who are found fit are sent to the barracks. Some of the tests are conducted through the Civil Hospital in Sector 10,” he said. The officials said it becomes difficult to diagnose medical issues as many a times inmates do not share their medical problems. Harinder Singh, jail superintendent, said that if any inmate is found positive for HIV they get their viral load test again and if still they test positive, they are sent for further treatment. “The positive report is only shared with the inmate and not even the family members and the inmate is kept in common barrack,” he said. Presently, there are about 3,100 inmates lodged at Bhondsi jail, the officials said.
19-12-2021||Mumbai||Petition filed in HC seeking removal of odium from father Stan Swamy’s name||MUMBAI: A petition has been filed in the Bombay high court (HC) by father Frazer Mascarenhas against the National Investigation Agency (NIA) and the state of Maharashtra, seeking removal of the odium of guilt from the name of his deceased senior, father Stan Swamy, who passed away due to various medical complications at Holy Family hospital on July 5. The petition was filed after the counsels for father Swamy, appearing in the priest’s bail application, sought a declaration that father Swamy was innocent in the Elgar Parishad case as all accusations against him had been cleared due to his demise. The HC agreed that the deceased priest’s friends and close acquaintances were well within their rights to get his name cleared of the accusations however it directed them to file a separate petition for the declaration.The petition filed through senior advocate Mihir Desai and advocate Mihir Joshi, stated that apart from seeking clearing the name of the 83-year-old from the accusations against him in the Elgar Parishad case, the petition also sought a proper enquiry into his custodial death. The petition sought permission for father Mascarenhas, who has been authorised by the Jamshedpur Jesuit province to participate in the magisterial enquiry and to ensure that the guidelines of the National Human Rights Commission are adhered to in the enquiry.The petition stated that the March 22 observation of the special NIA court that father Swamy was prima facie involved in the Elgar Parishad case had caused widespread hatred against the priest, which was evident from an incident at Mangaluru. The petition referred to the incident where a Jesuit institution was not allowed to name a garden after father Swamy due to the special NIA court’s observations. The petition stated that as father Swamy was not placed on trial before he passed away, he should be absolved of the accusations and his name should be cleared as per the rules.The petition also stated that the apathy of the NIA and the prison authorities had resulted in the health of the octogenarian priest deteriorating and resulting in his demise and hence, a judicial enquiry by a magistrate should be held and father Mascarenhas should be allowed to participate in it along with his legal representative.On November 24, the HC, which was hearing father Swamy’s appeals against the rejection of his bail application on medical grounds by the special NIA court, had agreed that an enquiry was necessary into the death of father Swamy. The court had held that as the appeals could not be maintained in the absence of the priest, it was disposing of the appeals but allowing father Mascarenhas to file a separate petition. The petition was registered in the HC on December 18, and is expected to come up for hearing in due course. In his application for bail on medical grounds filed in the HC in May, father Swamy had alleged that while he was able to carry out chores on his own before his arrest last year, soon after being lodged at Taloja jail his condition deteriorated and he had to take the help of his fellow inmates to carry out his chores. During a video conference appearance before the HC on May 21, father Swamy had stated that due to his failing health, he desired to go back home. He had also said that he would prefer to die in jail rather than being shifted to Sir J J hospital. Thereafter, the HC had allowed him to be shifted to Holy Family hospital where his condition had further deteriorated after the hearing of his bail application was adjourned from time to time. He passed away on July 5.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/petition-filed-in-hc-seeking-removal-of-odium-from-father-stan-swamy-s-name-101639937363988.html
19-12-2021||Pune||Two more people from Pune test positive for Omicron variant; district reports 210 fresh Covid cases||PUNE As per the state health department authorities, Pune district reported 210 fresh Covid-19 positive cases and one death on Sunday. Two more patients tested positive for Omicron variant, one each in Pimpri-Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC) and Pune rural. The total number of Omicron cases in Pune district stands at 21, said officials.As per authorities, Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) has so far reported 524,582 Covid-19 cases and 9,234 deaths till Sunday. PCMC has reported 270,560 cases so far and a total of 3518 deaths. Pune rural has reported 369,019 total cases and 7,012 deaths due to the virus.In the Pune district, there are a total of 11,64,161 lakh Covid-19 cases. Out of this, 11,42,187 patients have recovered. There has been a total of 20,114 deaths and at present, there are 1,860 active cases.As per the state health department, 766 patients were discharged on Sunday in Maharashtra taking the total to 6,497,500 in the state. The recovery rate in the state is 97.71%.Across Maharashtra, 902 new cases of Covid and nine Covid deaths were reported on Sunday. The case fatality rate in the state is 2.12%.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/two-more-people-from-pune-test-positive-for-omicron-variant-district-reports-210-fresh-covid-cases-101639937185412.html
19-12-2021||Lucknow||Maharashtra man held for siphoning off money from social welfare department bank account||A 43-year-old businessman from Maharashtra was arrested by Hazratganj police for siphoning funds from the social welfare department of Uttar Pradesh. The accused owns a firm in Thane, Maharashtra.According to a press statement issued by the police, the accused Satyen Dhanaji Savla was arrested by a team of Hazratganj police from outside his office in Thane on Saturday. The accused was brought to Lucknow on transit remand on Sunday.On November 18 last year, PK Tripathi, joint director of the social welfare department, lodged an FIR against an unidentified accused of siphoning off funds from the department’s bank account. A total of ₹27.52 lakh was siphoned off using a fake bank account. The amount was meant for scholarships and compensation. As the department came to know about the fraud, it reported the matter to the police.A police team of Hazratganj police station was formed to investigate the matter. The police came to know that the fake bank account was made by Satyen Dhanaji, who lived in Maharashtra.The police team is working on a money trail to identify the bank accounts to which the siphoned amount was transferred by Dhanaji and his alleged involvement in other bank frauds.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/maharashtra-man-held-for-siphoning-off-money-from-social-welfare-department-bank-account-101639937123702.html
19-12-2021||Pune||76,899 beneficiaries still to take first Covid vax dose in rural Pune: CoWin||PUNE Despite the administration declaring 100 per cent vaccination in terms of the first dose of the Covid-19 vaccine in the rural areas of Pune district, officials of the health department updated the figures on Sunday and claimed that 69,409 in Pune district are still to get the first dose. As per the CoWin application, as of December 16, there are over 76,899 beneficiaries yet to get the first jab. Separate data furnished for each village from talukas in Pune district highlights that beneficiaries yet to receive the first dose number at least 90,000.Ayush Prasad, chief executive officer (CEO), Pune Zilla Parishad, said that the pending list has been calculated against projected populations or number of voters registered from that village. “In some villages there are more villagers who are vaccinated and in some villages there are less. Data is updated every day. However, it is extremely difficult to point out exactly how many beneficiaries are yet to receive the first dose because of migration. The number that we have so far is just an indicative number as to how many beneficiaries are remaining. We are conducting door-to-door surveillance at the village level to inoculate the remaining population,” said Prasad.He added that if the number of people shown pending is shown in positive, it means that there are people on the voters’ list or in the projected population above the age of 18 who have not been vaccinated. “This data also indicates patterns of migration between villages of one taluka. In some villages fewer people are vaccinated. Some villages show negative numbers indicating that more people than the number of voters have been vaccinated,” said Prasad.In addition to this, as per the data shared by the officials, there are 1,255,182 beneficiaries who are yet to receive the second dose. “The second dose of vaccination is against the number of people who have taken the first dose and have completed 84 days. By sending local public representatives to their homes and encouraging them to take the second dose of vaccination, we expect to boost the number of people who have taken the vaccines,” said Prasad.“Our department has done a stupendous effort in identifying the number of people who may be pending for the first dose of vaccination in each village. No other district has managed to break it down to village level to identify people pending for vaccination,” said Prasad.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/76899-beneficiaries-still-to-take-first-covid-vax-dose-in-rural-pune-cowin-101639937004107.html
19-12-2021||Delhi||Omicron could be behind Delhi's Covid cases spike; Feb, March ‘convenient’ for virus: AIIMS professor||After Delhi reported the biggest single-day jump in Covid-19 cases in six months on Sunday, a medicine expert from New Delhi’s All India Institute of Medical Science (AIIMS) said the spike could be due to the Omicron variant, news agency ANI reported.Sanjay Rai, a community medicine professor at AIIMS, said Omicron's infectivity is “very high” and pointed out that when the variant reaches a vulnerable population, it will “rise and fall quickly” similar to the situation during the second wave of the pandemic in India.Rai said though extreme temperature makes it hard for any microorganism to spread, exposure to cold leads to the weakening of a person's immunity, thereby making them vulnerable to the virus.“The best temperature for viruses is between 20 and 30 degrees…So, September, October, November, February and March would be more convenient for the virus,” the medical expert was quoted as saying by ANI.Delhi on Sunday logged as many as 107 new Covid-19 cases, even as the city continued to steadily witness a spike in the single-day infections. Moreover, a fresh death was also recorded after a gap of 10 days—the last one was reported on December 8.The city on Sunday also recorded the coldest winter day of the season so far after the mercury dipped to 4.6 degrees Celsius in the Safdarjung Observatory. The temperature in Lodhi Road was recorded at 3.6 degrees Celsius.Meanwhile, India's Omicron tally climbed to 154, after Maharashtra and Gujarat reported fresh infections. Maharashtra and Delhi with 54 and 22 cases, respectively, account for the most number of Omicron cases of Covid-19 variant in the country.To tackle the rising cases of the new ‘variant of concern’, the Delhi government on Saturday converted four private hospitals—Sir Ganga Ram Hospital, Max Hospital in Saket, Fortis Hospital in Vasant Kunj and Batra Hospital in Tughlakabad—as dedicated centres. Along with Lok Nayak Jai Prakash Narayan (LNJP) Hospital, the national capital now has five dedicated Omicron centres.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/omicron-could-be-behind-delhi-s-covid-cases-spike-aiims-professor-101639932996485.html
19-12-2021||Pune||Minimum temp to drop but no cold wave forecast: IMD||PUNE Cooler day and night temperatures have been forecast in the city for the next two weeks by the India Meteorological Department (IMD). The minimum temperature is likely to reduce by 2 to 4 degrees Celsius, said weather department officials.Maximum temperature at Shivajinagar on Sunday was reported as 27.8 degrees Celsius and the minimum temperature was 11.5 degrees Celsius. Speaking about weather systems, Anupam Kashyapi, head of weather forecasting at IMD Pune said that at present there are no active systems around Maharashtra.“Yes till December 21, northerly winds are penetrating our state and city. Expected minimum in city very likely to be marginal and reach around 10 degrees Celsius by December 21 morning. Fall in minimum temperature in North Madhya Maharashtra may be around eight to nine degree Celsius by that time. However, there are no chances of a cold wave in the State. Also, from December 22 there is expected to be a change in wind pattern and hence, slowly, an increase in minimum temperature can be seen from December 23,” said Kashyapi.He added that a drop of two to four degree Celsius in the minimum temperature is likely for Maharashtra and Pune city. There is no rainfall forecast. “Till December 19, there may be partly cloudy conditions during the afternoon for some time. Also, late night and early morning haze is likely which will reduce visibility marginally,” said Kashyapi, adding, “For the week December 17 to 23, maximum temperature will be far less than normal and minimum temperature will also be less than normal. From December 24 to 30, the maximum temperature will be less than normal and minimum temperature will be marginally lower than normal. This also means that days and nights will be cooler for the next two weeks,” said Kashyapi.Minimum temperature across various parts of Pune city has consistently remained warmer than normal. Chichwad on Sunday reported minimum temperature at 16.5 degrees Celsius, Lavale was 16 degrees Celsius and Magarpatta reported 17.4 degrees Celsius.The lowest minimum temperature in Maharashtra was reported at 11.3 degrees Celsius at Jalgaon on Sunday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/minimum-temp-to-drop-but-no-cold-wave-forecast-imd-101639936828288.html
19-12-2021||Lucknow||‘Over 1.25 lakh devotees offered prayers at KV temple till Sunday noon’||After the inauguration of Kashi Vishwanath Dham by Prime Minister Narendra Modi recently, throngs of devotees visited the Dham and offered prayers to Baba Kashi Vishwanath at Kashi Vishwanath Temple on Sunday.According to information received from the temple administration, over 1.25 lakh people offered prayers to Baba Kashi Vishwanath till three o’clock on Sunday afternoon. The devotees were thrilled to see the grand Baba Kashi Vishwanath Corridor. The temple administration informed that the visitors viewed Baba’s Dham and took his blessings.Shopkeepers from the area said the crowd on Sunday was as large as it is during Sawan or Shivratri.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/over-1-25-lakh-devotees-offered-prayers-at-kv-temple-till-sunday-noon-101639936703709.html
19-12-2021||Pune||MVA government is an example of “dealer, broker and transfer”, says Amit Shah in Pune||PUNE Union home minister Amit Shah on Sunday called the Udhhav Thackeray-led Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA) “a punctured autorickshaw with three wheels which move in three different directions and does not function”. The home minister also termed the Congress, Shiv Sena and NCP, the three constituents of MVA, as representing the “dealer”, “broker” and “transfer” culture. “The state government is releasing only smoke which leads to pollution, but does not function. We have to go door-to-door questioning people of the state about whether this government can do any welfare for the people. Maharashtra had excelled in all fields in the past in the country, but can this government bring back the old glory. It is a ‘nikammi’ sarkar (useless government) and the forthcoming PMC elections will determine the fall of the state government,” he said, addressing a BJP party meet at Swargate. Shah added: “Modi had started DBT Direct Benefit Transfer scheme to help the poor and the needy aimed at eliminating agents. The MVA government has started its own DBT scheme where Congress considers itself as ‘dealer’, Shiv Sena as ‘broker’and NCP as ‘transfer’, to siphon off the money. This is the business of dealer, broker and transfer business and Maharashtra residents don’t want this government.” The Union home minister dared Uddhav Thackeray, saying: “ This is the city of Lokmanya Tilak who is known for Swaraj. It is my birthright, but Shiv Sena says government is its right If you have courage, give the resignation and face the polls. The BJP is ready to face all three parties in the elections .” “Petroleum prices were reduced by PM Modi, the state government reduced the price of liquor, but did not cut the petroleum prices and I question Thackeray. State government is an example of criminalisation of politics and extortion with vindictiveness against the BJP and its party workers,” he said. Recalling his visit to Maharashtra in 2019 at the legislative polls, Shah said, “I myself had a talk with Shiv Sena and we fought the elections under Devendra Fadnavis leadership and it was decided that he would be the CM. Shiv Sena has compromised with Hindutva and reached out to its two-decade old opponents for power. Both myself and PM Modi had said that Fadnavis will be the CM of Maharashtra, but as you (Thackeray) wanted to become the CM you committed treachery against us.” Earlier , Shah after formally inaugurating the statues of Dr Babasaheb Ambedkar and Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj inside the PMC campus came down heavily on the Congress accusing the party of insulting Dr Ambedkar. “The Congress party did not leave any opportunity to insult Dr Ambedkar and it ensured that he did not reach the parliament. He got ‘ Bharat Ratna’ award when there was a non-Congress party in power. Constitution Day was not celebrated as the Congress feared that Dr Ambedkar’s ideal would come before the citizens of the country. We in the BJP under PM Narendra Modi started celebrating Constitution Day and when Modi celebrates the day, the Congress boycotts it. It is the same Congress which talks about Dr Ambedkar . BJP wants to take Dr Ambedkar before the nation and don’t fear the Congress. PM Narendra Modi is running the country’s affairs regarding the constitution as a sacred text for governance,” he said. The home minister further said thatDr Ambedkar played a key role in the formation of Indian Constitution as he was the Chairman of the drafting commission wherein he brought all oppressed classes including dalits and adivasis on one platform for their empowerment. Shiv Sena delegation meet ShahSanjay More, president of the Shiv Sena in Pune city led a delegation to meet home minister Amit Shah regarding the desecration of a statue of Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj in Karnataka recently.A memorandum was submitted to the Union home minister which stated that the utterances the of Karnataka CM regarding the incident were controversial and questionable in nature. The government must swiftly act against the culprits and book them under charges of anti-national activity. The memorandum also stated that Marathi speaking residents of the state who raised their voices against the incident were booked by the police in different criminal cases Such cases must be withdrawn and strict action must be taken against the guilty.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/mva-government-is-an-example-of-dealer-broker-and-transfer-says-amit-shah-in-pune-101639936644860.html
19-12-2021||Lucknow||Manage affairs of Christian College, other institutions: Allahabad HC to Lucknow DM||The Lucknow bench of the Allahabad high court has ordered the district magistrate, Lucknow, to manage affairs of the Lucknow Christian College as an interim measure as the Society that manages the institutions run by it has failed to discharge its duty properly.The Lucknow Christian College runs several educational institutions in the state capital. The college is a minority institution established and administered by the Methodist Church in India. A single judge bench of Justice Dinesh Kumar Singh on December 16 (Thursday) said: “This court is of the opinion that the affairs of the educational institutions, particularly, run by the charitable/religious organizations, such as the church and the society, should be conducted in a proper and transparent manner.”“The properties of the society should not be disposed of in the manner in which they have been disposed of in the past,” the court said. “This court, therefore, as an interim measure directs the District Magistrate, Lucknow to take over the charge of the society as Administrator to see that the affairs of the institutions run by the society are properly managed,” the court added. “The persons, who are at present managing the affairs of the society, shall hand over the charge to the District Magistrate, Lucknow forthwith,” the court ordered. The court passed the order on a writ petition filed by Bishop Subodh C Mondal and others. In the petition, Mondal had pointed out “mismanagement” of the institutions, Lucknow Christian College and other institutions, run by a Society. “From the facts stated in the writ petition and at Bar, it is evident that the affairs of the Lucknow Christian College, Lucknow are wholly mismanaged,” the court observed during the hearing of the case. “Properties of the church/society are sold off by the persons, who have been/are at the helm of the affairs of the society,” the court said.“There are number of litigations, which are pending before the Deputy Registrar, Chits, Firms and Societies, Civil Court and this Court regarding mismanagement of affairs of the society,” added the court. The court listed the case for next hearing after four weeks. 
19-12-2021||Pune||Globally valid certificates for organic products part of coop reforms: Amit Shah||PUNE Union home minister and minister of cooperation Amit Shah said on Sunday that globally valid certificates for organic products from India, will be one of many reforms for the cooperative sector. Shah, speaking at the Vaikunth Mehta National Institute of cooperative Management (VAMNICOM) Pune, on the occasion of the convocation ceremony on Sunday, said, “Now everyone wants to eat organic food. Many farmers have also adopted the method of organic farming, but they are not getting appropriate rates in return for their organic products, because there is no system certification. Through this department we have decided to establish a globally valid certification system for land and products so that a market chain for these products can be created.” Shah said that reforms such as amendments in the multi-state cooperative act, computerisation of Primary Agriculture Credit Societies (PACS), and coordination of pending policies for the cooperative sector have been planned. “First of all, we want to remove loopholes in the multi-state cooperative act by making amendments. Second, the computerisation of PACS, which are the soul of the cooperative sector, has to be done. There is a plan to create a transparent agriculture finance chain by connecting PACS to Nabard through district and state cooperative banks,” said Shah. He also announced the establishment of a national university with courses on cooperative training and formation of a special cooperative plan for the next 25 years. “We have decided that to expand the reach of the cooperative sector a policy will be framed which can be implemented for the next 25 years. We have started this work and soon it will be put before the country. Very soon, we’ll establish a university for courses on cooperative training, with its colleges in different locations across the country,” said Shah.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/globally-valid-certificates-for-organic-products-part-of-coop-reforms-amit-shah-101639936404513.html
19-12-2021||Lucknow||BJP, SP two sides of the same coin: BSP leader SC Mishra||Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) national general secretary has alleged that there is an underhand deal between the ruling Bhartiya Janta Party (BJP) and the Samajwadi Party (SP) to create communal tension in Uttar Pradesh before the assembly election to serve their vested political interests. Addressing a public meeting in Mohanlalganj assembly segment of Lucknow on Sunday, Mishra alleged, “Before the 2017 assembly election, the BJP and SP leaders planned communal violence in UP to polarise voters for political gains. Again, they are working on the same polarisation plan.” “However, voters have understood their tricks. They know that the BJP and the SP are two sides of the same coins,” he claimed. “In 2003, when Mayawati was the chief minister of UP, BJP leaders played an important role in toppling the BSP government and ensuring formation of the SP government with the defection of 37 BSP MLAs. The Congress had extended support to the SP government,” he further alleged. “The BSP government (2007-12) launched several development projects in Uttar Pradesh. The BJP leaders are now claiming those projects as their own. The foundation of Ganga Expressway project was laid by the BSP chief Mayawati. The BJP and SP leaders moved a petition in the court to stop the project,” Mishra claimed.“Jewar international airport project was also launched under the BSP government. Now before the assembly election, the foundation of the airport is laid. The BJP government is launching the projects before the assembly election whereas BSP chief Mayawati launched a number of development projects soon after forming the government in 2007,” the BSP leader claimed. “The development projects were launched in 29,000 Ambedkar villages. Several educational institutions were launched. Besides, medical colleges and hospitals were opened,” he said.“Under the SP rule, there was spurt in the cases of loot, murder, dacoity, rape, kidnapping, communal violence as mafia and goondas were active. People have got no respite under the BJP government as well. There is spurt in the crime cases and women are not safe. The members of Brahmin community are being targeted and around 500 people belonging to Brahmin community have been killed,” Mishra alleged. “In 2017, people were misguided with the promises made by the BJP but the BJP government failed to fulfil the aspirations of the people. There has been an increase in unemployment. The BJP government had promised two crore jobs. Instead, the youth are being lathi-charged. The question papers of the tests held for various recruitment examinations were leaked. Teachers working in unaided schools were suppressed when they demanded regularisation. Farmers and bank employees are being harassed,” he further alleged.“Bahujan Samaj Party leaders and workers should motivate their family members to campaign for the party. We are big Bahujan family. My wife, son and son-in-law are campaigning for the party. However, they will not contest election. They are coordinating with me in electioneering,” Mishra said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/bjp-sp-two-sides-of-the-same-coin-bsp-leader-sc-mishra-101639936167016.html
19-12-2021||Pune||Goal is to have mobile forensic science lab in every district: Amit Shah||PUNE Union home minister Amit Shah, on Sunday, emphasised the need to expand the capacity for forensic science in the country. The Union minister said that every state should set up a dedicated college for forensic science and affiliate such institutions with the National Forensic Science University in New Delhi and Gandhinagar. Shah said that with more trained manpower, the number of forensic science laboratories must increase in the country. “If we want to control crime, it is not possible till criminals are punished. The work of awarding punishment to criminals will take place when we have a place for scientific evidence in the process of investigation and prosecution. These things are not possible unless we have a chain of forensic science laboratories in the country,” said Shah who is also minister for cooperatives, while speaking at the Central Forensic Science Laboratory at Talegaon in Pune district, where he inaugurated a new campus of the facility on Sunday. Shah insisted on increasing expert manpower in forensic science. “Once there is at least one college in every state for forensic science, there will be no dearth of expert manpower required for forensic science laboratories, as people who step out from these colleges will fulfill the requirement,” he said.He explained how with more manpower the number of forensic science laboratories can be increased in the country. “With more manpower, we could set up more forensic science laboratories in the country at state and district levels, which will cover police stations. If we do this in the next five to six years, we could bring about a legal transformation in the country and we could make forensic science mobile facilities available for cases with the provision of a punishment of six years and above,” Shah said. The Central forensic science laboratory in Pune was established in 2013 and caters to the needs of central and state agencies. It has 11 divisions and four more divisions are under development. Since its inception, the laboratory has received 1,725 cases so far. Amit Shah said that several internal security challenges before the country can also be controlled with the help of forensic science laboratories and the conviction rate can also be increased. Shah lunches with NDRF jawans Amit Shah visited a unit of the National Disaster Response Force on Sunday, where he interacted with NDRF personnel and had lunch with the jawans. Addressing a joint event on the NDRF campus in Talegaon, Shah lauded the force’s work during natural disasters like floods, cyclones, and building collapses.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/goal-is-to-have-mobile-forensic-science-lab-in-every-district-amit-shah-101639936163948.html
19-12-2021||Lucknow||23 fresh Covid-19 cases in Uttar Pradesh||LUCKNOW: The number of active Covid cases in Uttar Pradesh rose for the third consecutive day on Sunday. With 23 fresh cases reported, the number of active Covid cases under treatment reached 196. According to the data from the state health department, on Saturday there were 189 active Covid cases and on Friday 164. In all, 16 patients recovered in the past 24 hours. Till now, 16,87,584 patients have recovered in the state. “The test positivity rate (TPR) in the past 24 hours was is 0.012% with a total of 1,88,560 samples tested (in 24 hours) and 23 of them were found Covid positive,” said Dr Abhishek Shukla, secretary general, Association of International Doctors. On Saturday, the TPR was 0.017% and on Friday 0.012%, according to the data. On Saturday, 1, 89, 395 tests were conducted and 33 new cases were reported and on Friday 1,78,314 tests were done and 22 new cases reported. Till now, Uttar Pradesh has tested 9,07,50,349 Covid samples.“The Covid infection has not been eliminated as yet. All should follow the protocol,” said Amit Mohan Prasad, additional chief secretary, medical health. Uttar Pradesh has administered 18,59,92,332 Covid vaccines so far, including 12,20,96,292 first dose and 6,38,96,040 second dose. On Sunday,3,19,183 doses were administered.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/23-fresh-covid-19-cases-in-uttar-pradesh-101639936103625.html
19-12-2021||Pune||Lila Poonawalla Foundation invites applications for scholarships||PUNE Lila Poonawalla Foundation (LPF) invites scholarship applications from girls who come from a financially disadvantaged background. Those girls who have taken admission to Undergraduate Studies in 2021-2022 for the first academic year in any college of Pune district can apply.Started by Lila Poonawalla, Chairperson, and Firoz Poonawalla, for the last 25 years, LPF has awarded scholarships to over 10,800 girls across Pune, Wardha, Amravati and Nagpur in Maharashtra and Hyderabad in Telangana.LPF is inviting online scholarship applications from the Indian girl candidates studying in colleges/ universities in Pune districts, who wish to pursue Bachelor of Engineering/Technology (4 Years) and Bachelor of Engineering/Technology after Diploma (3 Years), Bachelor of Science (Nursing) and Bachelor of Pharmacy education, starting with the academic year 2021-2022.Scholarship Application Forms are now available on the following link: https://www.lpfscholarship.com For more details contact Asmita Shinde on 020 – 27224264 / 65 or 8669998981 or email lpfpunescholarship@lilapoonawallafoundation.comVisit the LPF website https://www.lilapoonawallafoundation.com to know more.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/lila-poonawalla-foundation-invites-applications-for-scholarships-101639935743827.html
19-12-2021||Lucknow||Allahabad HC seeks govt reply on state-run UP primary schools having no students||Hearing a public interest litigation (PIL) petition raising the issue of poor condition of state-run primary schools, the Allahabad high court has asked the Uttar Pradesh government to file a counter affidavit (reply) furnishing information with reference to various such schools in the state where no students are studying.While raising the issue of poor condition of the primary school in Daraganj locality of Prayagraj district, one Nand Lal in his PIL petition has alleged that the quality of education being imparted to the students is not up to the mark and therefore many parents have stopped sending their children to government schools.Hearing the petition, a division bench of Chief Justice Rajesh Bindal and Justice Piyush Agrawal in its order dated December 7 sought a reply from the state government and adjourned the case for the next hearing to March 28, 2022.In the PIL, a plea was raised for initiation of an inquiry into the affairs of Madhyamik School in Daraganj locality of Prayagraj district in respect of negligence of teachers in imparting education to the students and embezzlement of funds issued by the state government for the maintenance of the institution.While referring to an inquiry report of the divisional education officer in the case, it has been submitted that at present there is not even a single student in the pre-secondary school and this has happened due to the negligence of the teachers and the education department.In addition, it has also been submitted that the standard of education in other state-run schools was very poor and many teachers did not even know English language and were unfit to teach at the level of class IV.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/allahabad-hc-seeks-govt-reply-on-state-run-up-primary-schools-having-no-students-101639935683643.html
19-12-2021||Pune||9th edition of PILF to be held online from Dec 21 to 23||PUNE The ninth edition of the Pune International Literary Festival (PILF) will take place from December 21 to 23. Like last year, this year too the festival will be held online due to Covid-19 pandemic, according to Dr Manjiri Prabhu, the city-based novelist and the festival founder and director. “The basic objective of the festival is to celebrate the ‘Word’ in all forms, to facilitate a direct connect between authors and the readers and to create an inspirational platform for all creative people - at all levels of their careers, thereby promoting the culture of knowledge-based reading and learned appreciation of various arts and craft. Our partnership with Crossword Bookstores is now in its 9th year and the Salzburg Global Seminar has continued into its 6th year,” said Prabhu. This year the social theme of the festival is ‘Power Of The Golden Years’ (Senior Citizens) which is empowering the senior citizens with some sessions are dedicated to it. There will be over 150 Speakers, and more than 70 sessions taking place in three different online studios.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/9th-edition-of-pilf-to-be-held-online-from-dec-21-to-23-101639935567631.html
19-12-2021||Lucknow||18 students of four Prayagraj institutions bag UGC scholarships||As many as 18 students of four higher education institutions of Prayagraj have bagged prestigious Central government scholarships this time. As per the merit list made available on the official website of University Grants Commission (UGC), these students have bagged all-India level scholarships. The scholarships include Indira Gandhi PG Scholarship for Single Girl Child, PG Scholarship for University Rank Holder Candidate and PG Scholarship for Professional Courses for SC/ST Candidates, the results of which have been declared on the national scholarship portal by the UGC recently.The students belong to Motilal Nehru National Institute of Technology, Allahabad University (AU), Nehru Gram Bharti University (NGBU) and Sam Higginbottom University of Agriculture, Technology and Sciences (SHUATS).The meritorious students, who have been awarded PG Scholarship for University Rank Holder candidate this time, include Dwaram Mrudula of MSc (agriculture) course at SHUATS besides Siddhi Pandey and Vidushii Garg, both master of commerce students at AU. Likewise, the Indira Gandhi PG Scholarship for Single Girl Child has been awarded to Akanta Paul and Rachakatla Divya Bhavani, both students of MSc (agriculture) at SHUATS. Similarly, the 14 students, who have been awarded the PG Scholarship for Professional Courses for SC/ST candidates, include seven students of 3-year master of computer applications course at MNNIT.They are Abhishek Adhar, Jai Kishan, Priti Kumari, Rashmi Bharti, Sharad Kumar, Shishu and Vishal Siddha. Besides, Sunil Kumar of master of education course at Nehru Gram Bharati University and Abhishek Kumar of MTech (food technology) at SHUATS along with master of business administration students Arpit Kumar, Jyoti Kumari and Nikhil Kumar Kannojiya of AU as well as Sandeep Kumar of master of education at AU.The Post Graduate Scholarship For University Rank Holders is awarded to students who are first and second rank holders at undergraduate level and have been admitted in any regular, full-time master’s degree course in any recognised university, deemed university, private university, autonomous college or a post graduate college.Usually, just 3000-odd slots exist for this scholarship that pave way for fellowship of ₹3,100 per month for two years for selected students. The Post Graduate Indira Gandhi Scholarship for Single Girl Child has been introduced with an aim to compensate direct costs of girl education especially for such girls who happen to be the only girl child in their family. Girl students who are admitted in the first year of PG courses, if selected, get fellowship of ₹36,200 per year for two years. This scholarship too has 3000-odd slots.PG Scholarships for Professional Courses for SC/ST is an initiative for SC/ST candidates pursuing a postgraduate course in professional subjects. The scholarship aims to provide financial assistance to the deprived students to pursue postgraduate level studies in professional subjects. Around 1000-odd SC/ST students are selected for the disbursal of the scholarship. ME/MTech students selected under this scholarship scheme receive ₹7,800 per month for the duration of their PG course while students studying other professional courses get ₹4,500 per month.Along with this, two research scholars, including prof AC Pandey of the department of commerce and business administration of Allahabad University, have bagged the prestigious doctoral fellowship of the Indian Council of Social Science Research (ICSSR), New Delhi. In 2019, a research scholar Smita Dikshit had bagged the institutional full-time doctoral fellowship while this year another research scholar of prof Pandey, Shivam Upadhayay, has bagged ICSSR doctoral fellowship.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/18-students-of-four-prayagraj-institutions-bag-ugc-scholarships-101639935267721.html
19-12-2021||Lucknow||Preparations in full swing for PM Modi’s brief visit to Sangam city on Dec 21||PRAYAGRAJ: Prime Minister Narendra Modi will arrive here on Tuesday (December 21) and will stay for two hours and three minutes to distribute funds to beneficiaries of various government schemes, as per the tentative minute-to-minute schedule. Preparations for his visit were in full swing, informed officials. Chief minister Yogi Adityanath, during his visit to the city on Saturday, instructed the district administration to take several steps for the PM’s successful visit. According to the tentative programme, the PM would reach Bamrauli airport at 12.45pm from where he would leave by helicopter for parade ground at 1:05pm. He would reach the venue of his public meeting at 1.10pm and inaugurate an exhibition from 1.10pm to 1.15pm. The PM would arrive at the stage at 1.15pm and would be welcomed from 1.17pm to 1.30pm. There will also be an address by the minister of rural development and a short film will be screened from 1.20pm to 1.24pm. From 1.24pm to 1.27pm, funds worth ₹1000 crore will be transferred into the accounts of 1 lakh self-help groups of various government welfare schemes remotely, officials added. The PM will also lay the foundation stone of 202 take home ration plants set up across the state. The funds of Kanya Sumangala Yojana will be transferred to 1,01,000 women of the state. Thereafter, the CM will address the programme from 1.27 pm to 1.50 pm. The Prime Minister will address the gathering from 1.50 pm to 2.20 pm. At 2:23pm the PM will leave for the helipad and fly to Bamrauli airport at 2.28pm. He will depart from Bamrauli airport at 2.48 pm. On Saturday, the CM said that unnecessary people should not be allowed to come to the event. Officials informed the CM that 67 schools had been selected for lodging, while 32 other schools had been kept reserved for police personnel. The CM instructed that every school should have a functional kitchen. Women coming to venue should be given hygienic food and milk must be arranged for their children, informed a communiqué issued by the district information office. The CM has also asked officials to pay special attention to security and said that women security personnel should also be deployed, along with taking help of cadets of NCC girl cadets. A total of 68 sections are being built at the venue of the PM’s rally in which these women will be seated. Besides, 1920 teachers will also be deployed at a rate of one teacher per 100 women. A total of 383 nodal officers will be posted and 68 super nodal officers will also remain on duty. There will be a screening at every entry point. The administration has arranged for various amenities which include 50 tankers of drinking water, 400 mobile toilets, 50 tent toilets and district-wise parking with colour code. On Sunday, rehearsals were held at the parade ground .||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/preparations-in-full-swing-for-pm-modi-s-brief-visit-to-sangam-city-on-dec-21-101639935266534.html
19-12-2021||Pune||Costs of Christmas decorations head north||PUNE It’s a good thing that consumers are in a mood to spend heading into the holiday season. They may have to dish out more for a new Christmas tree or decorations.For many of the Christian and cosmopolitan homes, putting up the Christmas tree is a lot of fun, especially days the days leading upto Christmas, and shopping for decorations brings in a lot of camaraderie among family. However, for the past two years, thanks to the pandemic, families have been celebrating Christmas within the confines of their homes.While some consumers are in a mood to spend, others are not ready to dish out high prices for decor. On MG road one can see beautifully glazed coloured balls peeking out of the red festoons, a baby Jesus along with the crib smiling through while the three wise men look back from their plastic cover in a box. Furtados, D’ Mellos and Raves usually have their hands full with their shops overflowing with Christmas paraphernalia, this year too, their shops have stars, Santa caps and glittering reindeers but fewer people.“Most of the regulars tend to come early to pick up the best of the lot. In the past two years, there is not enough foreign stock coming in, and we have limited stock. With transportation cost also high, we are paying four times more. Hence a four feet Christmas tree will cost you ₹5,450 and above. Although we have decorations starting from ₹20 to ₹300, even local handmade decorations have increased their prices,” said Salvius Roy, of Raves.Some are also using heirloom decorations that have been in the family for generations. “We have lot of heirloom decorations that are used to decorate the Christmas tree but we also add new ornaments and every year. This year too we bought a few, but they are expensive and almost spent around ₹15,000 for some of best imported decorations. I buy my decorations from Raves, who is based out of Chennai but puts up a store on MG road and brings a lot of foreign stuff,” said Hycinth Arya, a Pune resident.Gloria Furtado, of Furtado’s said, “Usually, we have lot of people coming in to shop for some authentic locally made products, but this year it has been slow. Closer to Christmas, almost everything is sold out.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/costs-of-christmas-decorations-head-north-101639935265010.html
19-12-2021||Pune||From daily commute to long rides, bike rental in Pune is in demand||PUNE City commuters seem to have taken a liking to rental bikes thanks to poor ad irregular bus services and increasing fuel, parking and maintenance cost. From students to people who have newly moved to the city avail this service as it helps manage their expenses.Swapnil Padhatare, who has an auto spare part shop on SB road says, I have five bikes and five non-geared vehicles available for rent. We buy second hand bikes, repair them and then rent it out on a daily basis. During the lockdown, the footfall was low, but the rental service is popular among college students.”Padhatare said that all the paper work from regional transport office is done before vehicle is made available for rent. When one hires a bike for rent, a xerox copy of the identity card is kept with shop owner. A declaration form is also filled. “There is no standard rent fixed for renting a bike, it is decided by respective owners. Some people take rented bike as per kilometres while few take rent on full day basis,”added Padhatare.“I rent bike on weekends since we plan to roam around the city or visit places like Lonavala. I pay ₹300 for a day,” said Sagar Khiwsara,a resident from Baner.Nitin Pawar, general secretary of Rickshaw Panchayat said, “Even after so many complaints no action has been taken against companies and shop keepers who provides such service (bike on rent). All rules are applicable for auto rickshaw owners, while these people are running their vehicles illegally.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/from-daily-commute-to-long-rides-bike-rental-in-pune-is-in-demand-101639935143495.html
19-12-2021||Pune||Bike-taxi, renting two-wheeler illegal: Pune RTO||PUNE Next time you plan to book a bike-taxi in the city, think twice. This is because, such services are illegal according to the Regional Transport Office (RTO) Pune.The Pune RTO has warned against the use of two-wheelers as a commercial transport mode for the commute of passengers. In a statement issued, RTO Pune, has called such transport service not in adherence with the state transport policy.The warning from RTO comes after many bike rental services which include popular transport apps have become operational in the city. As the traffic menace in Pune has been increasing, the idea of hiring a two-wheeler for a few days or as a taxi service for commuting instead of renting a cab, is slowly gaining ground among citizens.“If bike taxis registered under private category are used for renting purposes, then it violates the license and registration rules. While using such a service, passengers will not get any benefits such as insurance compensation after an accident. Companies are functioning through websites or apps. Drivers providing such services are violating transport and road safety norms like not wearing helmets,” said Sanjay Sasane, deputy RTO Pune.According to officials many youngsters are indulging in such business. “We need to make people aware of this. An organisation working for road safety brought this to our notice. For easy money, youngsters are getting involved in this business. No operator has been authorised to rent the two-wheelers. If such transactions are taking place, then it should be reported,” said Sasane.The pattern of a two-wheeler renting service differs with providers. Some offer two-wheeler on rent on a per day/week basis. While some platforms have offered taxi-like services for the passengers.“In Pune one cannot function without a two-wheeler. Locals own them but what about city visitors who have to live here only for a while ? For such people renting a bike for a day or using its pick-up and drop facility is a good option. Unless the condition of public transport improves in the cities, the need for private vehicles will persist,” said Chinmay Joshi, who visits Pune frequently.Citizens also raised an issue about identification of such practices. “How will officials identify if anyone has rented the vehicle or not? In day-to-day city traffic it is very difficult to pursue. Also, road safety is important. Everyone has to follow the rules. But such warnings won’t help if there is no proper reinforcement,” said Dhanashree Bhagat, an IT professional.The operators who offer such service remained unavailable for comment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/biketaxi-renting-two-wheeler-illegal-pune-rto-101639934963765.html
19-12-2021||Pune||Oil on road causes biker to skid and fall off Shankar Maharaj bridge in Pune||PUNE A motorcycle rider was injured after he fell off the Shankar Maharaj bridge in Pune on Sunday morning. The injured man has been identified as Shaikh Mohammad, 25. He was rushed to Bharti Hospital for treatment. He has sustained head, shoulder, back injuries, according to the police. According to officials, the man fell off the bridge while his motorbike remained on the bridge. In a few moments, a car came to the same spot and skid on the oil before turning on its side on impact. He was headed towards Swargate.“He is unconscious as of yet. The bike accident happened first and then the car accident in a few minutes. The two are not related and the car driver did not sustain severe injuries. The oil came from a container can that was being carried in the back of minibus. It spilled and the bus kept moving. The bike was right behind the bus,” said senior police inspector Swati Desai of Sahakarnagar police station.While no case has been registered, the incident has happened in the jurisdiction of Sahakarnagar police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/oil-on-road-causes-biker-to-skid-and-fall-off-shankar-maharaj-bridge-in-pune-101639934368007.html
19-12-2021||Pune||Two arrested in Sangvi murder case, 9 on the run||PUNE The Pimpri-Chinchwad police have arrested two out of 11 people identified in the firing and murder of a man in Katepuram chowk area of Sangvi on Saturday.The deceased man identified as Yogesh Ravindra Jagtap, 36, a resident of Gangardenagar in Katepuram area of Pimple Gurav was shot in broad daylight on Saturday.The deceased man was shot twice by a man wielding a gun while Jagtap was at a public gathering, said officials. The two people arrested in the case have been identified as Ganesh Bajirao Dhamale and Akshay Kengale, both residents of Sangvi in Pimpri Chinchwad. All the accused are people with local businesses like tea stall, roadside kiosk, according to the police.“We have arrested the accused and will be taking them to the court now,” said Police inspector (crime) Sunil Tambe of Sangvi police station.“When he was being rushed to the hospital, he made a dying declaration saying Ganesh killed him. They had an old rivalry over some financial reasons that we are investigating. In an earlier case, the deceased man had beaten to near-death, one of the accused and few others over their long-standing rivalry,” said senior police inspector Sunil Tonpe of Sangvi police station.Jagtap has a history of seven cases and one term of externment against him. Of the seven cases, one is of attempted murder, two are of arms possession and others are also body offences, according to the police.A case under Sections 302 (murder), 109, 120(b) (criminal conspiracy), 504 (insult with an intention of provoking breach of peace), 506 (criminal intimidation) of Indian Penal Code along with Sections 3(25), 3(27) of Arms Act was registered at Sangvi police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/two-arrested-in-sangvi-murder-case-9-on-the-run-101639934183846.html
19-12-2021||Lucknow||Priyanka connects with women in Rae Bareli||Lucknow: A day after holding a 6-km foot march with her brother Rahul Gandhi to begin efforts to reclaim Amethi, Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra reached Rae Bareli on Sunday to connect with the people there and launch her party’s ‘Shakti Samvad’ mega campaign to bring them to Congress fold ahead of the 2022 assembly elections in Uttar Pradesh. After Rahul Gandhi lost Amethi to union minister Smriti Irani in 2019, the BJP has been making consistent efforts to make deep inroads in Rae Bareli, the Lok Sabha seat of Congress president Sonia Gandhi. Both Amethi and Rae Bareli were considered to be Congress’ bastions till the 2019 Lok Sabha elections. “We are half of the population, yet political parties are not taking women seriously… Congress’s initiative of empowering the women has awakened the political parties now. Asha Bahu’s honorarium has been raised and Prime Minister Narendra Modi is going to hold an all-women meeting,” said Priyanka while addressing women at ‘Shakti Samvad’ interaction at the Town Hall in Rae Bareli on Sunday. She called upon women to rise and fight for themselves. “I will fight with you. Change is yet to come…We will bring the change together. Don’t vote for those who do not empower women,” she said. Priyanka heard women’s issues, listed promises that the Congress has made in the women manifesto and said the party, if voted to power, would bring about a legislation for action against police officers who failed to register an FIR in cases of rape within 10 days of the incident. She began her address referring to the Unnao and Hathras incidents of crime against women and said women were at the receiving end everywhere. There was need to bring about a change in the state, she said, calling upon on the women to vote the Congress to power to empower them in the state. Priyanka’s visit to Rae Bareli assumes significance as the party that won two out of the five assembly seats of Rae Bareli in 2017 assembly elections has no legislator from this area now. Rae Bareli MLA Aditi Singh has joined the BJP while another party MLA Rakesh Singh, who won from Harchandpur assembly seat, also owes allegiance to the BJP. After wresting the Amethi from the Congress, the BJP is making consistent efforts to make deep inroads into the Rae Bareli Lok Sabha constituency. Uttar Pradesh BJP spokesperson Avnish Tyagi said it was too late for the Congress. “It’s too late. If the Congress had cared for the people, its position would have been much better,” he said. 
19-12-2021||Pune||Two get default bail in MPID as Pune police fail to register chargesheet within 60 days||PUNE: Two men arrested in a case under special law for investor cheating were granted bail by default as the Pune police failed to register a chargesheet in the given time period.The two were identified as Adhiraj Amit Singh and Sarbashish Parshar Basu. The third accused in the case is Anurag Bhatia,chief executive officer at Minance Technology Private Limited, according to the order issued by the court of Additional Sessions Judge KP Nandedkar. The case against the three are under Sections 406, 420, and 34 of Indian Penal Code (IPC) along with Sections 3 and 4 of Maharashtra Protection of Interest of Depositors (MPID), 1999.“When the case came to me, 50 days of investigation was already done. I was on leave when it happened. By the time I got the case status, the public prosecutor told me that a bail application has been approved. We have filed for addition of Section 409 of IPC,” said the investigating officer who did not wish to be named.The current in-charge of the police station, senior police inspector Vinayak Vetal, took charge of the station on the day when the order was passed and has been detailed on bandobast for Home Minister Amit Shah’s city visit, said officials.The complaint was lodged in December 2020 at Koregaon Park police station. Singh and Basu were arrested on October 7, 2021 after which they spent 12 days in police custody and have been in Yerawada central jail ever since, said officials. “Both my clients were roped in by the third and main accused Anurag Bhatia who was, at the time, in custody of Rajasthan police for a similar case registered in Jaipur. My clients were both cooperating with the police for a year after the case was registered as they had also been wrongfully involved in this,” said Advocate Pratik Rajopadhye who is representing the accused along with Advocate Ashish Patankar.The chargesheet in the case had to be registered on or before December 6 as the cases which carry less than seven years sentence upon conviction require chargesheet to be filed within 60 days of case registration. As that was not done, the defence lawyers filed for default bail on December 13. On December 15, the investigating officer filed for addition of Section 409 of IPC, which could have consequently given the officer more time to file the chargesheet.“Unfortunately, this application was registered and produced before this court on December 13 at 4:03pm and admittedly, the cahrgesheet is not filed in the court by this time also. Thus, I find that investigating officer cannot take the benefit of the report today in the court while passing this order and find that section 409 of IPC cannot be made applicable to this application,” read the order by Judge Nandedkar.The complainant in the case has invested ₹6,08,94,000 in the company of the accused identified as Minance Technology Private Limited. While the police failed to arrest Bhatia, the absent chargesheet also helped the two other accused to get bail.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/two-get-default-bail-in-mpid-as-pune-police-fail-to-register-chargesheet-within-60-days-101639933883944.html
19-12-2021||Delhi||Rohini court blast: Accused tried to kill himself in police custody, says report||The Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO) scientist, arrested for “planting explosives” inside the Rohini district court in Delhi, allegedly attempted suicide by consuming a toxic substance while police custody, news agency PTI reported citing police officials on Sunday.Police officials told PTI Bharat Bhushan Kataria, who is 47-years-old, is undergoing treatment at AIIMS and is completely stable.Kataria was arrested on Friday for allegedly planting an improvised explosive device (IED) in a tiffin box inside the Rohini court on December 9 to kill his former neighbour, a lawyer, over a decade-long rivalry.Also read | Rohini court explosion: Scientist may have tried to harm lawyer, says top copAccording to the police, Kataria wanted to kill his former neighbour Amit Vashisht, a lawyer with whom he was locked in “protracted legal battles” for nearly a decade. He planned the bombing with an IED for nearly a month, they said.The accused was questioned by the Delhi Police's Special Cell on Friday and subsequently arrested on the same day. He was in police custody since then and was being interrogated, the police said.Also read | In blast build-up, 11-yr-long tussle played out on streets, inside courtKataria allegedly consumed liquid hand wash inside a washroom on Saturday night and was later found lying unconscious. He was rushed to the Baba Saheb Ambedkar Hospital and referred to AIIMS from there, a senior police officer said."When police personnel went to check on him at the hospital, he told them that he didn't consume anything. But we spoke to the doctors and they said he had consumed hand wash," the officer was quoted as saying by PTI.Also read | Cops to examine security lapses in Rohini court after blast exposes loopholes"He is being treated at AIIMS and is completely stable. All his vitals are normal. A senior doctor will be checking on him tomorrow (Monday) and he is expected to be discharged. He will be interrogated soon," the officer added.The officer said he is misleading and manipulating the investigation team by evading questioning. “He is uncooperative and using all that he has studied about the system to avoid interrogation," he added.The IED planted by Kataria triggered a low-intensity explosion in courtroom number 102 and Vashisht suffered shock and minor injury to his leg and a constable hurt his left shoulder and foot.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/rohini-court-blast-accused-tried-to-kill-himself-in-police-custody-says-report-101639932783997.html
19-12-2021||Patna||Manjhi’s ‘disparaging’ comment against communities create furore||A day after kicking up a storm by making disparaging remarks against Brahmins, former chief minister and Hindustani Awam Morcha (HAM) president Jitan Ram Manjhi on Sunday backtracked that the comments were directed towards his community—the Dalits—and not the Brahmins.Reacting sharply to Manjhi’s comments, All India Congress Committee (AICC) media panellist and MLC Prem Chandra Mishra said that the HAM chief must offer a public apology for his outrageous remarks against Brahmins. “Manjhi’s clarification is also not justified. Where and how did he get the authority to revile the Dalits? Like any other castes, Brahmins and Dalits enjoyed a strong relationship since time immemorial. Hindu community has been idolising and worshipping even Dalits, be it Sabri or Rishi Valmiki, etc,” added.Mishra also questioned the silence of leaders of the ruling coalition, of which HAM is a part, on the issue and demanded a case should be lodged against the former CM.Lok Janshakti Party (LJP) chief Chirag Paswan too flayed Manjhi, saying that remarks against a particular community or the religious tradition were unacceptable. “He (Manjhi) may not have faith in the religion, but he does not have the authority to rebuke any community,” said Paswan.Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD) senior Shivanand Tiwari, however, defended Manjhi saying that his reaction might have been triggered by the injustice and atrocities meted out to the Dalits by the upper castes in the state or elsewhere in the country.Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) spokesman Sanjay Tiger said that Manjhi should not make such demeaning comments against any community.Senior Congress leader and former MLC Ajay Kumar Singh said that chief minister Nitish Kumar had the habit of making others speak his mind. “Had he (the CM) been concerned about Manjhi’s reaction, he would have reacted by now,” said Singh.At a meeting of Bhuiyan community meeting at Kalidas Rangalaya on Saturday, Manjhi reportedly abused the Brahmin community saying that they have made the Dalits forget to pray to their community’s gods and follow the Hindus’ worship system instead. He also said that he did not believe in Lord Ram, who was an imaginary character. On Sunday, Manjhi clarified that he had rebuked his community members for forgetting their gods and falling back on those who conduct religious functions for the Dalits but don’t take food at their houses. He said he does not believe in the caste or varna system, which was evolved to destroy society..
19-12-2021||Delhi||Delhi logs 107 new Covid-19 cases, biggest daily jump in 6 months||Delhi on Sunday reported the highest single-day surge in Covid-19 cases in six months, after as many as 107 people tested positive for the viral disease, according to the health bulletin.With this, the national capital's Covid-19 tally climbed to 14,42,197, the bulletin data revealed.The city has been witnessing an increase in daily Covid-19 cases since Wednesday. On Saturday, as many as 86 new infections were logged, which was the highest single-day rise in five months. This figure was a sharp rise from Friday when 69 cases were reported in the national capital.Also Read | Delhi logs 54 new Covid cases, single-day infections see consistent uptickFurthermore, the case positivity rate, which although has remained below 2%, has been rising continuously. According to the bulletin, Sunday's case positivity was at 0.17%—an increase from Saturday's 0.13% and Friday's 0.12%.On Sunday, Delhi recorded a death related to Covid-19 after a gap of 10 days, with the last one reported on December 8. The city has so far reported three deaths due to coronavirus this month. Following Sunday's figure, the Covid-19 death toll of the national capital rose to 25,101, the bulletin showed.In September, Delhi logged five deaths due to Covid-19, which was at that point of time, the lowest monthly toll since the pandemic struck the city. However, the record was broken in the succeeding month after only four Covid-19-related fatalities were reported in October. The death toll saw a marginal tumble in November when seven deaths due to the virus were logged.As many as 50 new recoveries were reported on Sunday, taking the total number of patients who recovered from the virus to 14,16,556. The active case count of Delhi stands at 540.Also Read | Delhi govt, DDMA to hold review meeting tomorrow over rising cases of OmicronMeanwhile, 2,48,30,215 people have been administered Covid-19 vaccines in the city so far, of which, 123,719 were jabbed in the last 24 hours, according to the bulletin.Sunday's massive jump in fresh Covid-19 cases in Delhi comes at a time when India's Omicron tally has reached 154 after Maharashtra and Gujarat confirmed fresh infections. Maharashtra with 54 cases and Delhi with 22 infections account for most of India’s tally of the latest variant of the coronavirus.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-logs-107-new-covid-19-cases-biggest-daily-jump-in-6-months-101639924083232.html
19-12-2021||Patna||Bihar feels winter chills, Gaya’s temperature dips to 5°C||Residents woke up to a chilly Sunday morning as winter gripped several places as the mercury dipped to 5°C, the lowest so far this season, MeT officials said. Prior to Sunday, Gaya had recorded the lowest minimum temperature of 7.6°C on December 16 .As per the Patna Meteorological Centre, Gaya remained the coldest in the state recording the lowest minimum temperature of 5.3°C.According to MeT officials, Gaya, Patna, and Muzaffarpur witnessed a significant fall in mercury where the minimum temperature dropped by 5°C to 6°C in the past 24 hours.As per the daily bulletin issued on Sunday, Patna recorded a minimum temperature of 7.6°C, Siwan 6°C, Aurangabad 6.7°C, Nawada 6.8°C, Samastipur 7.3°C, West Champaran and Sitamarhi 7.5°C each, Nalanda 8.3°C and Bhagalpur 8.4°C.The average maximum temperature in the state hovered around 22°C to 24°C whereas the minimum temperature was between 8°C to 10°C, the bulletin said.Weathermen predicted that several places may be engulfed in fog, while mercury may further dip by two to three degrees in the next three days.Deliberating on the weather system, meteorologist Amit Sinha, said, “As per today’s numerical model and radar observation, westerly and northwesterly winds at the speed of 10 km per hour is prevailing in the state. The wind velocity is likely to further bring down the temperature. Shallow to moderate fog is likely to occur at isolated places.”Meanwhile, residents were seen taking precautionary measures to beat the cold. People were seen sitting beside bonfires at public places and tea stalls to keep themselves warm.“Public bonfire has been being arranged at 50 places for poor and the homeless. Sub-divisional officers have been asked to take necessary steps and monitor their respective areas due to dip in the temperature”, said a senior official of district administration.Patna Municipal Corporation (PMC) has also set up night shelters for providing relief to the homeless during the winter season.“More than 10 permanent and temporary shelters have been set up in the city to provide relief to poor and homeless people and protect them from the cold. All shelters are equipped with 30 beds each along with blankets and basic facilities”, said Harshita, public relation officer of PMC.Traders dealing in winter appliances said demand for winter appliances has increased in the last week.Mayank Gupta, a sales executive at a multi-brand electronic showroom near Raja Bazar, said, “Demand for heating appliances has gone up from the last week. Majority of buyers prefer blowers over heaters”, he added.BEPC issues advisory for school functioning during winter seasonBihar Education Project Council (BEPC) has asked all district education officers (DEOs) to take precautionary measures during the prevailing cold wave.“Usually, the state experiences severe cold during December-end and early January. All DEOs have been asked to take necessary steps in view of the cold condition. Schools should not function in the first sitting during the prevailing cold wave and may remain close on severe cold days,” said BEPC’s director Shrikant Shastri.Patna zoo takes precautionary measures to protect animalsThe Sanjay Gandhi Biological Park, commonly known as Patna Zoo, has made elaborate arrangements to keep inmates safe and warm during the winter season. The zoo authorities have installed 46 heaters and have made changes in diet of animals.“Regular health check-ups of animals are being done for safety. Heaters have been installed at enclosures of tigers, lions, leopards and chimpanzee. Ventilators of night houses of all animals have been covered with straw to block cold air. High voltage bulbs have been installed at snake house to provide them warmth”, said a zookeeper.GRAPHICS:Patna’s maximum and minimum in past three days:December 19Min 7.6°C, Max : 23.8°CDecember 18Min: 9°C, Max 22°CDecember 17:Min 9°C, Max 23°CDecember 15:Min 9°C, Max 24°C||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/bihar-feels-winter-chills-gaya-s-temperature-dips-to-5c-101639930043276.html
19-12-2021||Patna||Sugar mills announce hike in SAP of sugarcane across varieties in Bihar||Sugar mills in Bihar have hiked the state agreed price (SAP) on all sugarcane varieties by ₹13 to ₹20 as compared to the last year’s procurement rates, officials said.The new price was declared by the Bihar Sugar Mills Association (BSMA) after a meeting with state sugarcane industries minister Pramod Kumar, departmental secretary N Saravana Kumar and other senior officers recently. In lieu of it, the state government has assured to arrange soft loans to the mills to bear the loss on purchase of sugarcane due to decline in selling price of sugar and allow them to bargain the selling price of molasses with buyers.Till now, sugar mills are compelled to sell molasses at ₹336/quintal, as fixed by the government, even as the byproduct of sugarcane is being sold at double the rate in other states.Association secretary Naresh Bhatt said that the farmers would be paid ₹335 per quintal on good variety sugarcane, ₹315 for general variety, and ₹285 for per quintal of low-quality sugarcane at the mills for the current crushing season. “The cost of high and general varieties of sugarcane is ₹20 per quintal higher than last season and ₹13 more in case of the lower quality sugarcane, despite losses incurred by mill owners in the last fiscal,” the BSMA secretary added.The SAP of sugarcane, however, will be ₹20 less per quintal, if farmers sell their produce at procurement centres located far from the sugar mills across different varieties.In a statement issued on Sunday, the association said that the state government had agreed to arrange soft loans from the nationalized banks for a period of six years from the coming fiscal and pay the interest on the loan amount to compensate the loss due to decline in sugar price. “The selling price of sugar has come down by ₹250 per quintal in the past one month. This would make the millers to bear an extra loss of ₹25/quintal in payment of revised SAP to farmers,” said Bhatt.The association claimed that the state government has agreed to relax the excise policy norms that let the former fix the selling price of molasses and allow the millers to sell the byproducts on the mutually agreed prices between them and the purchaser. Molasses are used in making ethanol, which is mixed and used in fossil fuel for automobiles.“Sugar mills would inform about the quantity of molasses produced by them and the selling cost agreed by the purchasers for raising the goods and services tax (GST) receipt and issuance of movement permits,” Bhatt added.Sugarcane department secretary N Saravana Kumar said the government had agreed to look into their demands for the soft loan in the next fiscal, as the state was undergoing a financial crunch owing to the Covid pandemic. “Sugar mills were arranged soft-loans earlier as well to offset the losses in payment of SAP to farmers,” said Kumar.Farmers to benefit from hike in sugarcane SAP: 5 lakhRevised SAP of good variety of sugarcane: ₹335/quintalDifference of SAP vis-à-vis last year: ₹13-20/quintalTotal sugarcane crushed last season: 458.01 lakh toneQuantity of sugar produced last season: 47.47 lakh tonne
19-12-2021||Pune||Jagannath Shetty, owner of iconic Vaishali restaurant in Pune passes away||PUNE Jagannath B Shetty (89), a renowned restaurateur from Pune, who established Vaishali, Roopali and Amrapali, passed away early Sunday morning.He was undergoing medical treatment at Prayag hospital. He is survived by his daughter, son-in-law and grandchildren.For many, the Vaishali restaurant on Fergusson College (FC) road has not just been an iconic Udupi joint but synonymous with the unique Puneri spirit since 1949. To the regular visitors, the warmth and taste Vaishali offered stayed forever. And the man who started it had a humble beginning.Shetty came to Pune around 58 years ago to join his maternal uncle Shridhar Shetty in his hotel business.Born on October 8, 1932, at Onimajali Mane in Ballur near Karkalla, Shetty came to work in Kalyan with his uncle to work for ₹3 per month when he was 13 years. Later at age of 17, he came to Pune in 1949 and started Cafe Madras (present-day Roopali) in 1951, which was followed by Madras health home, now the iconic Vaishali.Soon the restaurant became a household name and the go-to restaurant because of the quality of south Indian snacks.“For countless Punekars like me, Vaishali (and Roopali) is a lot more than just another restaurant. A bit difficult to describe the emotions associated with this place by many Punekars, across generations. Pune will always be thankful to Jagannath Shetty,” said Amit Paranjape, an entrepreneur and regular at these restaurants.The restaurant received the cleanest kitchen award from the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC), and Tridal, a cultural organisation in Pune awarded Shetty the “Punya Bhushan award.”Ashok Gadgil, a resident, on the website of Vaishali has also mentioned that in the 1960s cup of tea was 10 paise in Vaishali and 15 paise in Roopali. Both hotels had a ‘katta’ to sit outside. “We used to sit outside till we felt hungry in the evening.”The fan club of Vaishali isn’t limited to residents from nearby areas but it included prominent personalities like Sharad Pawar, Raj Thackeray, and many from the film industry.According to the Nationalist Congress Party’s (NCP’s) Ankush Kakade, Sharad Pawar was a big fan of hotel Vaishali and during many public speeches have mentioned the restaurant.“While I was studying in Brihan Maharashtra College of Commerce (BMCC), we would go to Vaishali. It brought many friends together and we enjoyed the coffee and snacks,” he said.Kakade’s recent memories are that of sharing a table with municipal commissioner Vikram Kumar, police commissioner, Amitabh Gupta, on the morning of the Ganapati visarjan in September 2021 and enjoying the food.“It is true that I had heard a lot about Vaishali and I had not been there. One morning of the visarjan day, I went there along with Vikram Kumar and others and ordered everything on the menu as I wanted to try them all, which I did. I particularly liked the cutlets, Rava dosa and the filter coffee,” said Gupta.Although the restaurant is often buzzing with customers, Shetty was known to be reticent. “Many celebrities and public figures come to Vaishali. However, I normally avoid talking to them,” Shetty had said during a felicitation event in 2013 when he turned 80. The event was organised by leaders of all political parties.In Pune, Shetty found another home though he had not forgotten his native place. “He generously donated to his old school for development, and build the village Ganapathi temple,” said his son-in-law, Vishwajeet Jadhav.He was also an ardent golfer and has captained Poona Golf Club in the year 1997-98, and also started an annual “Vaishali Cup” for amateurs.“We all have lost a doyen of our hospitality industry. Jaganath Shetty of Vaishali restaurant was undoubtedly a successful businessman who set high standards in the hotel industry. Jagannath can rightfully claim to introduce South Indian cuisine to Punekars across many generations. He was also a great human being. He was forefront in donating a large part of his wealth to enumerable social causes,” Ganesh Shetty, President Pune Restaurants and Hoteliers Association.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/jagannath-shetty-owner-of-iconic-vaishali-restaurant-in-pune-passes-away-101639929143418.html
19-12-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab polls: Kejriwal accepts Sidhu’s challenge, fields Mann for debate||Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) national convener Arvind Kejriwal on Sunday accepted the challenge given by Punjab Congress president Navjot Singh Sidhu for a debate on liquor, mining and jobs in the state. Asking Sidhu to fix the place and time for the debate, Kejriwal nominated AAP’s Punjab unit president Bhagwant Mann for it, stating that the choice made more sense as even Sidhu is the state chief of Congress in Punjab. “I accept Sidhu’s challenge for a debate and hope that the discussion is fruitful and on the various issues of development. Sidhu should choose the place and time,” Kejriwal, who is also the Delhi chief minister, told journalists at the Chandigarh airport. The AAP supremo said the Congress had five years to develop Punjab, but they betrayed the people and did nothing except “drama and excuses”. Expressing grief over the sacrilege incident at Golden Temple in Amritsar, Kejriwal said the incident could be part of a conspiracy. “Some wrong forces are plotting to spoil the peace and tranquillity of Punjab,” he alleged, blaming the Congress government for the incident. He said that if the culprits of the previous sacrilege cases had been punished severely, then no person would have dared to commit such a crime again. “I hope that the police will catch those who sent the criminal to Sri Harmandir Sahib for sacrilege at the earliest and punish all the conspirators behind it,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-polls-kejriwal-accepts-sidhu-s-challenge-fields-mann-for-debate-101639928123270.html
19-12-2021||Chandigarh||Hang those guilty of sacrilege, says Navjot Sidhu||Alleging that some fundamentalist forces are trying to disturb peace in Punjab, state Congress chief Navjot Singh Sidhu advocated capital punishment for all those accused of desecrating any religious text, while addressing a rally at Malerkotla on Sunday.“We need to establish a voice of unity. The fundamentalist forces are disturbing our unity. However, whenever one religion is projected as higher and the other lower across the nation, Punjab always stands against it. All people are equal in Punjab. If there is any incident of sacrilege, whether it is of Guru Granth Sahib, Gita or Quran, the guilty should be hanged,” said Sidhu. Also read: Man lynched over sacrilege at Golden TempleAccompanied by local MLA and cabinet minister Razia Sultana and her husband and former DGP Mohammad Mustafa, the Congress leader said that there was a “conspiracy to eradicate a community”, and Hindus, Sikhs and Muslims should show unity to defeat such forces.Protesters disrupt speechEarlier, when Sidhu was about to start his address, Zameen Prapti Sangharsh Committee (ZPSC) members and protesting aspiring teachers started raising slogans, but were removed by police. They were demanding reserved land for the SC community and jobs, respectively. Even anganwadi workers, accredited social health activists and other contractual workers staged protests outside the venue, seeking regularisation and fulfilment of other demands.
19-12-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab CM dares opposition to prove sand is being sold at higher rates||Chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi on Sunday asked his political opponents to put video evidence in public domain to prove that sand was being sold above the rates fixed by the Punjab government.Addressing a political rally at the Zira assembly segment in Ferozepur district, Channi hit out at the opposition Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) and Aap Aadmi Party (AAP) for allegedly lying about various government initiatives. “The Punjab government has offered a cash reward of ₹25,000 to anyone proving that sand is being sold for more than ₹5.5 per cubic feet. I challenge the AAP and (SAD president) Sukhbir Badal to prove it and we will pay them the reward as well,” said Channi.The CM also laid the foundation stones of development and infrastructure projects worth ₹87 crore, including that of a civil hospital, administrative complex, bus stand and an ITI to be named after late Inderjit Singh Zira. Following a demand by local Congress MLA Kulbir Singh Zira, Channi also allocated ₹1 crore for a stadium at Zira town.Targeting the AAP, the CM said its Delhi-centric leadership has failed to maintain the confidence of legislators and parliamentarians elected from Punjab. “Most of them left the party as AAP leadership has no understanding of needs and aspirations of Punjabis. People of Punjab do not want the rule of a party controlled by politicians from outside,” he said.‘SAD should forget about returning to power’The CM also addressed a public rally at Patti in Tarn Taran, besides inaugurating a number of projects, including the construction of Sri Guru Teg Bahadur Law University, District Education and Training Institution and Dr BR Ambedkar Public Park. Channi said that as long as the SAD remains under the control of Badals and Majithia, it should forget about coming back to power. “The people of Punjab have not forgotten the misdeeds of Badals even today,” he said, during the rally organised by local MLA Harminder Singh Gill.The CM also announced ₹10 crore for the development of villages in Patti constituency, ₹5 crore for the development of Patti city and ₹2 crore for the overall development of Kairon village. He also announced that a bronze statue of former CM Partap Singh Kairon would be erected at a cost of about ₹25 lakh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-cm-dares-opposition-to-prove-sand-being-sold-at-higher-rates-101639926323023.html
19-12-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra adds 6 news Omicron cases, state’s tally rises to 54||Maharashtra detected six new cases of Omicron, health officials said on Sunday, a day after logging eight infections related to the highly mutated variant of the coronavirus.To date, 54 patients infected with Omicron have been reported in the state and of this, 28 have been discharged after their RT-PCR test report was negative. The latest Omicron cases from Maharashtra have taken India’s tally to 153 so far.According to the officials, four patients were found Covid-19 positive at the Mumbai airport and one each were from Pimpri Chinchwad and the Pune rural area.The fresh cases of Omicron in Maharashtra come after the state reported eight infections of the variant. Four of these patients were detected following RT-PCR tests at the Mumbai airport. One of them is from Mumbai, one from Jalgaon in north Maharashtra and two others are from Chhattisgarh and Kerala, respectively, officials said.Also read | Omicron symptoms include runny nose, headache, fatigue: UK studyTwo of them came back from Africa, one from Tanzania and another from the United Kingdom. All four are fully vaccinated and asymptomatic, the health officials said.Three other Omicron patients were a couple from Satara in western Maharashtra and their 13-year-old daughter, who returned from Uganda recently. Their five-year-old daughter tested positive for Covid-19 but not the Omicron variant, district officials said.Also read | Delhi govt, DDMA to hold review meeting tomorrow over rising cases of OmicronThe health condition of all four from the family was said to be fine.Another Omicron patient found on Saturday was a 17-year-old girl from Pune city who had come into close contact with an international traveller, officials said.Also read | Why breathing difficulty is unlikely a symptom of Omicron, AIIMS doctor explainsMeanwhile, Maharashtra on Sunday reported 902 new cases of the coronavirus disease and 9 related fatalities, which have taken the state’s overall tally to 6,649,596 and death toll to 141,349.In Mumbai, 321 new Covid-19 cases and 2 deaths were registered, taking the capital city’s caseload to 767,050 and deaths to 16,365.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-adds-6-news-omicron-cases-state-s-tally-rises-to-54-101639925146320.html
19-12-2021||Chandigarh||‘Free water, no garbage…’: Kejriwal's 5 promises to Chandigarh before civic poll||Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) chief and Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Sunday promised to end corruption and make water free in Chandigarh ahead of the civic polls in the city next week, which are being seen as a litmus test for political parties before the Punjab assembly elections.Addressing a rally, Kejriwal made five promises to the citizens of the poll-bound city. He said if the AAP is voted to power in the Chandigarh Municipal Corporation (Chandigarh MC) polls, it will ease municipality-related works by making government officials come to the residences of the citizens.“For every municipality work, people spend money and take leaves from offices due to long queues. If AAP comes to power, municipality officials will come to your residences for work, like in Delhi,” he told the gathering.The Delhi chief minister also said the AAP will remove the mountain of garbage dumps in Daddu Majra Colony and make sure that Chandigarh becomes the most beautiful city in all of Asia once again.Explaining his point, he said such a garbage dump exists in the national capital as well since the Delhi civic bodies are under the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP).“In the upcoming Delhi civic polls in April, the municipal corporations will come back to [the] AAP. Following that, we will get the garbage dumps in Delhi, as well as Chandigarh, removed,” Kejriwal told the crowd.Also Read | Channi, Kejriwal start campaign to reach out to Punjab voters via mobile phonesAs his third promise, Kejriwal said his party will ensure that not a single penny is spent on water bills by Chandigarh's citizens. “Water and electricity are free in Delhi. Chandigarh will also get free water,” he added.The AAP chief said at the moment, the Chandigarh MC cannot do any work for the housing societies of the city. However, if his party is elected to power, all work related to the cleanliness and maintenance, among others, of the city's housing societies will be done by the corporation.For his fifth and final promise, Kejriwal said that if the AAP is voted to power in the Chandigarh MC elections, it will install multiple CCTV cameras across the city for the safety and security of women.“In Delhi, we have installed double the number of CCTV cameras present in London and New York,” the Delhi CM told the gathering.Kejriwal also asked the citizens of Chandigarh not to vote for him if their friends and relatives living in Delhi say that the AAP government has worked for the people of the national capital.Also Read | Chandigarh MC polls: December 22-24 to be dry days“If they say the government hasn't worked, then do not vote for me,” Kejriwal noted, adding that he only knows how to work and not do politics.Saying that the AAP is a party defined by the youth of the country with most of its members below the age of 40, Kejriwal urged the youngsters of Chandigarh to come forward and join his party.The Chandigarh Municipal Corporation elections, which is being seen as a triangular contest with the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), the Congress and the AAP fielding their candidates, are scheduled to be held on December 24 from 7:30am to 5pm. The counting of votes will take place on December 27.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/free-water-no-garbage-kejriwal-s-5-promises-to-chandigarh-before-civic-poll-101639915726979.html
19-12-2021||Bhopal||MP boat capsize incident: Bodies of 3 persons recovered||The bodies of three people who had gone missing in Saturday's boat capsize incident in Raisen district in Madhya Pradesh were recovered on Sunday, an official said. Nine people were on board the boat that capsized at around 4pm on Saturday in Narmada River near Banskheda village, some 135 kilometres from the district headquarters. While six of them managed to swim to safety, three people, comprising a 24-year-old man, his 23-year-old sister in law and her two-year-old son, had gone missing, he said. After failing to retrieve the bodies on Saturday, a team of 50 rescuers from the State Disaster Response Force (SDRF) and police resumed the search operation on Sunday morning with motorboats, Raisen Superintendent of Police (SP) Vikas Kumar Sahwal said. "The child's corpse was found 100 meters from the spot at around 1 pm, while the bodies of the man and woman were found by 3.30 pm. The bodies have been sent for post-mortem. A case has been registered," the SP said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bhopal-news/mp-boat-capsize-incident-bodies-of-3-persons-recovered-101639920381136.html
19-12-2021||Other||Over 17,800 get second dose during mega vax drive in Gurugram||A total of 21,853 people were vaccinated in Gurugram on Saturday as part of the mega Covid-19 vaccination drive conducted by the district health department with the focus on increasing the second dose coverage.Of the 21,853 recipients, 3,987 were given the first dose and 17,866 the second dose of vaccine against Covid-19, officials said. Apart from the 50 sites for the drive, the health department also constituted over 200 teams to carry out door-to-door vaccinations in 160 locations across the district. Dr Virender Yadav, chief medical officer (CMO), Gurugram, said that second dose of Sputnik V was available at polyclinic in Sector 31 where 100 people got their second jabs. “It was one-day drive aimed to cover the maximum possible population. We want to ensure that people who were not fully vaccinated should take their jabs at the earliest,” he said. “International travellers who are in Gurugram for education or business/job purposes can get inoculated at Sector 31’s polyclinic for their second dose of Covishield,” the CMO said. As part of the mega drive, in urban areas, three-member teams comprising accredited social health activist (ASHA) workers, auxiliary nurse midwife (ANM) workers and data entry operators visited residential areas and waited in common spaces such as residents’ welfare association offices and community centres, where people came and got vaccinated, the officials said. In rural areas, the teams organised vaccination drive at chaupals and in centrally located buildings and open spaces. The officials said that all primary health centres in the district have conducted surveys at their levels to identify people who have still not taken the vaccine and teams are being formed accordingly. Dr Yadav said that each time they are conducting vaccination drive they share the information on social media platforms to inform people so that they can plan accordingly. “People should get their second dose as and when due and should not miss any drive or chance to get inoculated,” he said. The officials said they are also coordinating with resident welfare associations to ensure their residents are fully vaccinated. On Sunday, the department will conduct vaccinations at 44 sites for Covishield and four sites for Covaxin. Eleven new casesMeanwhile, Gurugram witnessed 11 fresh cases of Covid-19 on Saturday, taking the caseload to 181,927 in the district so far. Now, the district has 99 active cases, of which 97 patients are in home isolation and two are hospitalised, the officials said. 
19-12-2021||Delhi||Drug prescriptions should be legible to avoid errors||New Delhi: A couple of years ago, the Lucknow bench of the Allahabad high court imposed a penalty of ₹5,000 each on three doctors in three separate cases for illegible handwriting. Of course, the unreadable scrawls in question did not pertain to prescriptions given to patients, but to medico-legal reports pertaining to criminal cases and the judges were irked by the scribble and ordered that in future the reports be computer-generated. In case of prescriptions too, computer generated advisories are really the answer to indecipherable handwritings, but till such time that becomes a reality, consumers are dependent on pharmacists to give them what the doctor ordered and this puts a tremendous responsibility on chemists to ensure that they correctly decipher, not only the name of the medicine, but also its strength and any other details that the prescription may contain. A consumer recently complained about how he had an adverse reaction to a drug. On checking with the doctor, he realized that instead of the single active ingredient drug prescribed , the chemist had given a combination drug with two active ingredients. Since the brand name was the same for both, with an alphabet added as a suffix to indicate the additional drug, the consumer remained unaware of it. Such substitutions by the pharmacist, whether deliberate or by oversight, can turn out to be costly for the consumer. Conversely, ignoring those suffixes would also not augur well for the patient.Besides different strengths or potency, some of the drugs also vary in terms of how they are released, indicated by suffixes such as SR (sustained release), PR ( prolonged release) and so on. Since consumers are not aware of these , they are dependent on the chemist to give them the right medication. Similarly, there may be tablets meant for sublingual administration (to be taken by placing it under your tongue) rather than the usual gastrointestinal route by swallowing with water. A reader recently told me that the chemist changed her prescription of vitamin B12 and gave her sublingual B12 tablets, without informing her. She did not even know about sublingual pills. Since this was such a crucial information, the chemist ought to have informed her. Failure to do so was negligence.Even more serious are cases of dispensation of an entirely different medication than the one advised by the doctor, leading to very serious consequences for the patient-- many such cases have come up before the consumer courts. In Ashok Kumar Vs M/S Kumar Brothers(Chemists) Private Ltd, for example, dating back to 2017, the consumer was prescribed , among others, Metolar XR 50 mg. The chemist gave Gluformin XL 500 mg, a drug meant for diabetes. Consumption of the drug led to the consumer being admitted to a hospital in a serious condition. On learning that his ill health was the result of the wrong medication sold by the chemist, Kumar sought compensation for the suffering caused to him. The District Consumer Disputes Redressal Commission, UT Chandigarh, directed the chemist to pay ₹50,000 as compensation and ₹10,000 as costs. ( CC No CC/281/2018, decided on October 23, 2018 ) While in some cases, sheer negligence on the part of the chemist leads to such medication errors, in some others, similar sounding names could be the cause. Hence the doctor’s diagnosis noted along with the prescription plays an extremely important role in the patient buying the right medication.In Mohammad Ali Purkait Vs Manager, Frank Ross Pharmacy, the Consumer Disputes Redressal Commission, Baruipur, Kolkata, directed the pharmacy to pay only ₹5,000 as compensation for dispensing Concor-AM 2.5 instead of Concova-M prescribed by the doctor. One of the reasons for the poor compensation was that the doctor had not mentioned the diagnosis, which could have helped the pharmacist decipher the totally illegible prescription(Complaint No 07 of 2017, decided on March 30, 2021). So while chemists have a duty to sell only what is advised by the doctor, medical practitioners also have to abide by the Indian Medical Council (Professional Conduct, Etiquette and Ethics) Regulations that mandate that “every physician should prescribe drugs with generic names legibly and preferably in capital letters”. That would not only reduce medication errors, but also help consumers choose a generic drug at a much lower cost or even a cheaper brand.
19-12-2021||Gurugram||Gurugram multi-crore heist: Arrest warrant issued against suspended DCP||A local court on Thursday issued an arrest warrant against suspended deputy commissioner of police Dheeraj Setia for his alleged involvement in a multi-crore heist that took place in a housing society in Sector 84 on August 4, officials in the know of the matter said on Saturday. The special task force (STF) has been conducting searches at his office, as Setia is still on the run, they said.According to the officials, additional sessions judge Jasbir Singh, while hearing an application filed by the STF on Thursday, issued an arrest warrant against Setia and also directed to “rearrest” assistant sub-inspector Vikas Gulia of the Delhi Police’s special cell, who was previously arrested on October 9 for allegedly helping gangster Vikas Lagarpuria suspected to have planned the theft of ₹40 crore.The STF on Friday arrested an associate of Lagarpuria.Deputy inspector general of STF Satheesh Balan said on Saturday, “We had moved the application before the court for his (Setia’s) arrest warrant.”Earlier, the STF reportedly found “concrete evidence” regarding Setia’s involvement in the case and booked him under Section 411 (dishonestly receiving stolen property) of the IPC and relevant sections of the Prevention of Corruption Act.Gulia was arrested by Gurugram police in October but was released on bail. Setia was posted in Gurugram as DCP (south) and was holding additional charge of DCP (crime) when the crime branch of Gurgaon police was probing the matter. During a recent bureaucratic reshuffle, the IPS officer was posted as superintendent of police, Kurukshetra. In the meantime, the case was handed over to STF of Haryana Police, which arrested two doctors -- allegedly the masterminds of the theft. In their disclosure statements, the doctors named Setia, who was served a notice on the directions of the Gurugram court.On December 10, Setia was suspended by the Haryana government after being asked to join investigation on the basis of a confessional statement made by one of the doctors identified as Sachender Jain Nawal, a leading paediatrician accused in the multi-crore theft case. Setia had allegedly taken around ₹3.5 crore from Nawal for settling the case. After his transfer to Kurukshetra as SP, Sethia allegedly returned the money after keeping around ₹20 lakh. Balan said on Saturday they had summoned Setia and jail superintendent Shamsher Dahiya, who is posted in Panchkula. “Dahiya joined the investigation whereas Setia is still incommunicado, following which the court has issued his arrest warrant,” he said. On August 20, an employee of the maintenance company went to collect cash from the office to deposit it in the bank when he realised that the cash was missing. After scanning CCTV footage, the company discovered that the money had been stolen. “We collected money from customers for the services rendered to them and kept them at the office. On August 20, we found that the money had been stolen,” said an official of the company asking not to be named. Initially, the amount stolen was assumed to be around ₹50 lakh.The police have so far arrested 16 people for their involvement in the case. 
19-12-2021||Kolkata||Of those languishing in West Bengal jails for years without trial||Almost after 43 years, Dipak Joshi, 70, would meet his mother, 90, at their village in Nepal once he is released from a West Bengal jail, where he was incarcerated without a trial for 41 years, and is handed over to the Nepal consulate. Doctors had told the court that he was mentally unfit to face the court proceedings. Finally, on December 7, the Calcutta high court ordered his release and awarded him compensation for being kept behind cars for so long.“He was arrested on May 12, 1980, on charges of murder. His trial, however, never took off as he was mentally unfit to face the proceedings,” said Jayanta Narayan Chatterjee, a high court advocate. Joshi was arrested from Darjeeling in the 80s for allegedly killing a local after a brawl. In these 41 years, he was transferred from one prison to another before finally landing at the Dum Dum Central Correctional Home in Kolkata, locked up in a foreign country with no one to meet or see.In late 2020, the then Chief Justice of Calcutta high court, TBN Radhakrishnan, who was also the patron of the West Bengal State Legal Services Authority, noticed his case while reviewing the cases which had not been taken up in the court in want of a lawyer. On the court’s direction, the district legal services authorities took up the matter and Joshi was sent for a mental health checkup in a state-run hospital.“The committee found that even though he was physically 70 years old, his mental health age was that of a nine-year-old. He could only speak in Nepali and none understood what he was saying. He was just eating and surviving. He had no family or relatives in India. He has family in Nepal, who knows he is languishing in jail,” said a high court lawyer who didn’t wish to be named.Chatterjee, who appeared on behalf of the State Legal Services Authority for Joshi, said the then Chief Justice started a suo moto proceeding and in less than two months Joshi was set free. “The Nepal Consulate was made a party to the case. It was found that Joshi’s 90-year-old mother was living in his native village in Nepal. One of his relatives, who came to India, was asked to sign a bond and Joshi was reunited with his family after four decades in March 2021,” said Chatterjee.As the family was extremely poor and stayed in a remote village in Nepal, Radhakrsihnan requested the advocate general to address the court on the issue of compensation since Joshi had suffered incarceration for more than four decades. The state government submitted an affidavit saying there was no scheme for compensating undertrial, who did not get justice, the court decided to give compensation of ₹five lakh, which is granted to a family undertrial, who dies in jail. “The court ordered (on December 7) that compensation can be paid to Joshi through Nepal consulate,” the lawyer said.More like himJoshi is just one of the 103 undertrials still languishing in West Bengal and Andaman and Nicobar Islands jails without trial as they are not mentally fit to face court proceedings, according to the state legal services authority. And almost all of them come from a very poor economic background and many have been forgotten by their family in absence of financial resources to fight their case. Some are eagerly awaited by their family members. Andaman and Nicobar Islands come under the jurisdiction of the Calcutta high court.One of them, Asim Kumar Roy, 50 was arrested in December 2011 on charges of murdering a domestic help at Haringhata in Nadia. He is presently lodged in the Dum Dim Central Correctional Home in the northern fringes of Kolkata and is awaiting trial as a doctor from government-run hospitals said he was mentally weak and may not be able to bear the court trauma. “He was the youngest of the siblings. We really don’t know why he murdered the woman. We heard a thud and came running out of the room. The woman was lying on road and my brother was standing there. I ran to the police station to inform the cops. They came and took him away. Since then he is in jail. The doctors are yet to give him a fit certificate and that’s why the trial hasn’t started,” said Alok Kumar Roy, Asim Kumar Roy’s brother.All these years, Roy’s elder sister used to meet him in jail. After her death due to cancer in 2020, his elder brother Alok meets him. Asim has not been informed that his sister has died. He still knows that his sister is suffering from cancer and is critically ill. His father died the same year he was arrested.“Every time I meet him he cries. He begs me to get him out of the jail saying he can’t take it any longer and is not keeping well. He has started limping as he is having a pain in his leg. I can’t even see him properly as there are two mesh-wire walls between us with a gap of at least five feet in between. We both have to shout and speak as our voices get drowned. We have already spent more than one lakh rupees on lawyers’ fees all these years. We are still trying to bring him out,” he said.But, there are some like Biswanath Chatterjee, whose family appears to be losing interest in pursuing his case. Chatterjee, another under-trial lodged in Dum Dum central jail, was arrested in August 1992 on charges of murder. His case is pending before the district court in Bankura. In April, he was declared ‘not fit’ for trial by the medical board of Calcutta Pavlov Hospital.In records, his family is not traceable, said a jail official, adding that nobody has come to meet him for years. The official added that there are some of these mentally unfit undertrials who have not seen a visitor for years now. “The family loses interest as the trial cannot start because of their mental health condition,” he said. The case of Bankim Chakraborty, 70, who was arrested in connection with a dowry death of his daughter-in-law in 2017 at Haringhata in North 24 Parganas was arrested with his wife and two sons, is different. He was declared mentally unfit to face trial while trial started against his other family members. “I don’t know much about the case. Four of my family members are in jail. My father developed some mental problems. I have not met him for many days. The lawyer knows it,” said his youngest son Aparup Chakraborty. Lawyer Dipak Dey, whose number was provided by Aparup, said he was not aware of the case. When called again Aparup said he doesn’t want to talk about the case.“There are umpteen cases where a man’s family member and relative do not come and he continues to languish in jail. He can’t be freed. He has to stay in jail till the trial is completed,” said Raju Mukherjee, member secretary of the state legal services authority.Slow legal systemAccording to Prisoners Statistics of India, 2019, 7,394 inmates in Indian jails are suffering from mental health issues and 1.5% of them are undertrials in jails. Some studies in jails have indicated a higher number of prisoners suffering from mental health issues. A 2011 study published in the Indian Journal of Psychiatry found that 23.8% of the 500 surveyed prisoners suffered from mental health issues.The Supreme Court in 2019 had recognised that every prisoner with mental illness has the right to live with dignity and asked jails to have counsellors for early detection of mental illness. In 1995, the apex court in the case of Sheela Barse vs the Union of India passed a direction for all high courts of India to institute a writ petition concerning the mental health of the under-trials and convicts. “But even after 25 years there were, however, no such writ petitions instituted in the Calcutta high court,” said a lawyer of the Calcutta high court, quoted above. Justice Radhakrishnan last year nominated Justice Shampa Sarkar as the judge to hear cases about the mental health of inmates of correctional homes. “The next date of hearing is on March 4, 2022,” said an advocate of the high court.The trial, however, does not start only if a government doctor certifies a person as mentally unfit. Raju Mukherjee said if a jail doctor suspects that an undertrial is mentally not fit, the court is informed. The court sets up a committee that gives a certificate – whether he or she is fit to face trial or unfit.Ganesh Prasad, superintendent of Calcutta Pavlov Hospital, said they examine a prisoner to find whether he or she is mentally fit to understand the proceedings and its ramifications in court against him. “We submit our report to court accordingly,” he said. Mukherjee said there are provisions in the law that if the court thinks then such an undertrial, who is mentally not stable to undergo trial, may also be freed. Unlike normal cases, in which a man is allowed to go out if he gets bail, in these cases a relative or a family member of the te undertrial has to come and sign a bond. Using that provision, Dipak Joshi was released and provided compensation on December 7.
19-12-2021||Delhi||Construction curbs likely to be eased in Delhi as air quality improves: Report||The Commission for Air Quality Management (CAQM) is expected to give more relaxations to construction and demolition activities in Delhi and the National Capital Region (NCR) in wake of the air quality index (AQI) improving over the last few days, an official told news agency PTI on Sunday.The CAQM on Friday stayed curbs on construction works across Delhi-NCR, allowing only the ones associated with healthcare, public utilities, railways, Metro, airports, national security, highways, roads, power transmission and defence, among others.The commission also permitted offline classes in schools to resume in a phased manner. Physical classes for students of Class 6 and above were allowed to reopen on Saturday, while the same for those up to Class 5, will resume on December 27.Classes have, however, been directed to be conducted in a hybrid nature with both online and offline teaching sessions.Notably, schools in the national capital were scheduled to reopen on November 29, but environment minister Gopal Rai announced on December 2 that they will remain shut till further orders owing to the sharp rise in Delhi's AQI.Delhi's air quality remained in the ‘poor’ category on Sunday with an overall AQI of 290, news agency ANI reported. However, as per the latest data by the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB), several areas of the capital continue to have ‘very poor’ air quality. The AQI in Anand Vihar was at 328 at 3pm, in ITO at 308, in Mundka at 303, in Nehru Nagar at 317 and in Punjabi Bagh at 303, among others.According to CPCB, an AQI between zero and 50 falls in the ‘good’ category, between 51 and 100 in the ‘satisfactory’ category, between 101 and 200 in the ‘moderate’ category, between 201 and 300 in the ‘poor’ category, between 301 and 400 in the ‘very poor’ category, and between 401 and 500 in the ‘severe’ category.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/construction-curbs-likely-to-be-eased-in-delhi-as-air-quality-improves-report-101639904617972.html
19-12-2021||Bhopal||Madhya Pradesh Gangsters bill to be tabled in winter session||Madhya Pradesh government will introduce MP Gangsters and Anti-social activities Prevention Bill 2021 this winter session of the legislative assembly, said home minister Narottam Mishra. Talking to HT, Mishra said Gangsters Bill will soon be approved by the cabinet and will be tabled in this winter session only and it will weed out mafias from Madhya Pradesh. The winter session is scheduled to be held from December 20 to 24. After Uttar Pradesh, MP will be the second state to have this bill. Recently, the MP cabinet also approved the prevention of damage of public and private property bill on Thursday. MP home department completed the draft which has a special provision of urging the court for custody of an accused up to two months, said an official of the home department. This bill will be implemented on organized criminals including mining mafia, land mafia, illicit liquor sellers, fake medicines sellers, human trafficking gangs, drug peddlers, adulteration in food products, illegal arms manufacturers and others. Police will invoke the bill in all the organized crimes which have more than two accused,” said the officer. “The bill will empower district collectors to inquire the matter of assets of the accused and if it is found disproportionate, they will have a right to seize it. The accused will have to prove the legal way of earning,” he added. The cases will be heard in a special court so that the hearing could be completed timely. There will also be provisions for the safety and security of eyewitnesses. Home department’s additional chief secretary Rajesh Rajora said, “The draft is being discussed and will be formalized soon.” Retired IPS officer Shailendra Shrivastava said, “This was not the first time when the provision of police remand for up to two months is going to be introduced. Earlier, it was introduced under Terrorists and Disruptive Activities (Prevention) Act and Prevention of Terrorism Act (POTA).” “This is a very necessary provision because it is very tough for police to interrogate hardcore criminals. According to law, as of now, there is a provision of maximum remand of 15 days but that is not enough to complete the interrogation,” he added. However, legal experts and human rights activists raised objections and said the act can be misused by the state government. Former advocate general Ravi Nandan Singh said, “What is the definition of a gangster and who will decide who is a gangster? There is a possibility that the act can be misused and stringent provisions like POTA and TADA will definitely upset the people of MP. It will also create problems for the government legally as how will they prove that the accused was a threat for humankind?”Human rights activist M Seema said, “MP government is copying UP in every law but they should understand that crime in MP is different than UP. I don’t know why the government need an extra law to control the crime. They should reinforce the existing law to stop mafias because these laws only violate human rights as we have seen in TADA and POTA. To keep a person in police custody just on the basis of suspicion that he is mafia will surely violate human rights.” The opposition leaders said this act is nothing but a copy of the UP government. “This act will prove the failure of the BJP-led state government in maintaining law and order in MP. Barring 15 months, BJP is leading the state and they allowed mafias to grow to such extent that now BJP-state government needs a separate law to deal with them, said PC Sharma, Congress MLA. However, BJP leaders said this law will bring peace to the state and will terrorise anti-social elements. “This law is against the anti-social elements, mafia and to maintain peace and harmony in the state, save the lives of people. The opposition leaders have made a habit to oppose everything without understanding the consequences and that’s why the Congress party is losing its trust among people,” said Rajneesh Agrawal, spokesperson, BJP. 
19-12-2021||Delhi||Delhi govt, DDMA to hold review meeting tomorrow over rising cases of Omicron||Amid rising cases of the Omicron variant of the coronavirus in the national capital, the Delhi government and the Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) will hold a review meeting on Monday.Chief minister Arvind Kejriwal, health minister Satyendar Jain, Delhi chief secretary Vijay Dev, lieutenant governor Anil Baijal and NITI Aayog member (health) Dr VK Paul along with other important officials of the Delhi government will be present during the meeting at 11.30am, the DDMA said in a notification on Sunday.Also Read| ‘Non-essential travel…’: ICMR chief lists dos and don’ts during Christmas, New Year amid OmicronDiscussions will be held regarding the overall coronavirus pandemic situation in Delhi and the rising number of cases of Omicron, which was first detected in South Africa last month.So far, Delhi has reported 22 cases of Omicron and is the second worst-affected region by the variant after Maharashtra, which has found 40 infections.Chief minister Arvind Kejriwal said on Saturday his government is ready to tackle the spread of the variant in Delhi and urged residents to not panic."I have been holding meetings these last few days and I want to assure people that our government is ready to tackle Omicron," Kejriwal said at an event.Kejriwal admitted his government learnt a lesson from the ravaging fourth wave of Covid-19 in Delhi in April and May this year and assured the next wave will be brought under control if it comes.“In April this year, the fourth wave of Covid in Delhi claimed many lives. We took help from everyone and together we brought it under control,” the chief minister also said.Also Read| Omicron: Delhi converts these four private hospitals as dedicated centresFour private hospitals in Delhi—Sir Ganga Ram Hospital, Max Hospital in Saket, Fortis Hospital in Vasant Kunj and Batra Hospital—have been converted into dedicated centres for treating patients of Omicron.Earlier, only the Lok Nayak Jai Prakash (LNJP) Hospital was treating patients infected with the Omicron variant.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-govt-ddma-to-hold-review-meeting-tomorrow-over-rising-cases-of-omicron-101639905053859.html
19-12-2021||Lucknow||Quick border access for forces, integration of locals must: Ex-IRS officer||China’s expansionist moves can be tackled by a twin approach of quick access to the North and North-Eastern border for the Indian armed forces, and by an effort to integrate the people there with the nation, says author and wildlife-travel photographer Mahendra Singh.A true blue Lucknowite and the former La Martiniere College student’s recently released book Finding Shangri La – Visions of Ladakh and Spiti delves deep into myriad physical and cultural aspects of this unique corner of our country and provides a comprehensive picture of the land and its people. That he was able to document the region through photographs and well-researched text is not the interesting part, but that he was able to do it as a top serving Indian Revenue Service official. He retired from service a couple of months ago.“Of late, Chinese aggression has revived our border disputes with China and has thrust Ladakh and Spiti (also called the Little Tibet) into national focus. Like the Atal Tunnel at Rohtang that now permits all-weather movement, similar works are underway on the Srinagar-Leh segment to enable rapid access of the armed forces into Ladakh to face potential threats to our borders,” says Singh.Certain segments of the vast Tibetan Plateau fall within our national borders. Rudely forced into national consciousness on account of the Chinese aggression, the areas of Ladakh and Spiti remain strategically important.“With the adjoining areas turning volatile, the resident population of these border lands have become important collaborators in the defence of the territorial integrity of the nation. Better integration of the local people with the nation is, without a doubt, the need of the hour. Efforts at integrating the tradition-bound Ladakhi people with the general population must start with a thorough understanding of their existing environment and lifestyle,” says Singh, who has made numerous presentations for college students on Little Tibet.“These folk are mostly of the Tibetan genetic stock and adherents of the Tibetan culture in their lifestyle, social organisation, religion and culture. These are a hardy, warm and welcoming people, given to easy laughter,” he adds.Singh also said that to try and artificially preserve native cultures as some kind of laboratory specimens, deprived of the benefits of modern science and technology would be inappropriate.Giving credence to Singh’s line of thinking, a recent news agency reported (ANI, Oct 18) that the Indian army officers were studying Tibetan history, culture and language in a bid to counter Chinese influence, and to deepen the existing bond between the local population and the rest of the nation.The first batch of the two-month course on Tibetology involving culture, geopolitics, politics, demography and Buddhist philosophy began in March this year with 15 Indian army officers. The second batch began in November with 20 officers, and for the third course, there were more than 22 names received when that report was filed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/quick-border-access-for-forces-integration-of-locals-must-ex-irs-officer-101639908681641.html
19-12-2021||Chandigarh||Another unidentified youth lynched in Punjab village over suspected attempt to sacrilege||A day after a youth was beaten to death over an attempt to sacrilege in the Golden Temple, Amritsar, another unidentified youth, who is believed to be a migrant, was lynched by the Sikh activists at Nizampur village in Kapurthala on Sunday over the suspicion of an alleged attempt of sacrilege, in the presence of police. This was the second incident in the state since Sunday.Earlier, there was a standoff between police and Sikh organisation over the custody of the youth who was kept in a room inside Gurdwara since morning. Sikh activists then went inside the room forcefully amid the scuffle with police and lynched the man. As per the initial details, the youth, believed to be in his 20s, had short hair and was wearing a red shirt. There have been no other traces of his identification so far. In the morning, senior police officials, including Kapurthala senior superintendent of police, Harkamalpreet Singh Khakh, and others, rushed to the spot where they were trying to strike a dialogue with Sikh organisations to hand over the accused. Heavy police deployment was in place outside the room where the youth was under custody to prevent the members of Sikh groups from entering the room forcefully. A top police official supervising the matter denied any matter of sacrilege of Guru Granth Sahib or other religious textbooks like Gutka Sahib and others in the Gurdwara.Gurdwara manager Amarjit Singh alleged that the youth was in a bid of sacrilege and also disrespected the Nishan Sahib (a Sikh flag) inside the Gurdwara. They caught the accused during the wee hours as he managed to escape from the premises. “The youth was sent by someone from the New Delhi to attempt sacrilege for money, he confessed the same,” added Amarjit Singh. The Sikh groups staged protests outside Gurdwara and demanded the custody of the youth as they wanted to punish him. They claimed that the respective governments failed to deliver justice in the sacrilege cases, especially in Bargari and other cases.Police, however, said the man may have the intent of theft. In a press briefing, Kapurthala SSP Harkamalpreet Singh Khakh, said, “as per facts gathered by the police, Amarjit Singh, manager of the Gurdwara, woke up at 4 am and saw a man inside the Gurdwara who fled the spot. Later, Amarjit sent his two sewadars (co-workers) who nabbed the youth. The Gurdwara manager and others thrashed the youth. The youth was wearing the jacket of Gurdwara students. It meant that the youth had the intention of theft.” “The mob gathered after the video got viral and under the religious emotion, they killed the youth. The police tried their best to handle the situation. We will register the criminal case under the charges of murder against the accused who killed the youth,” said Khakh, reiterating that as per their probe and clues gathered from the spot, it looks like a case of theft and no sacrilege of Guru Granth Sahib, the holy book of Sikhs, was committed. Khakh further said that there were one or two ID cards found which belonged to two local kids and were stolen. On Sunday, a man, who allegedly tried to desecrate the Guru Granth Sahib inside the sanctum sanctorum of the Golden Temple during the evening rituals on Saturday, was beaten to death by the devotees. The incident happened during the ‘paath’ of Rehras Sahib (hymn recited in the evening as per Sikh tenets). Giani Baljit Singh was reciting the hymns when a man rushed towards the holy book after jumping the railings and picked a ‘kirpan’. However, before he could do something sacrilegious, SGPC staffers got hold of him.Acting Akal Takht Giani Harpreet Singh said that some agencies are behind these incidents in the season of elections. Government must expose the forces behind these conspiracies because the Sikhs will not tolerate such acts anymore, he said.
19-12-2021||Lucknow||Agencies being used to keep Samajwadi Party away from power: Akhilesh Yadav||Samajwadi Party (SP) president Akhilesh Yadav on Sunday renewed his attack on the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) over the income tax raids at the residences of his aide and party leader Rajeev Rai and others a day ago.Yadav said so far, agencies like the Income Tax Department, the Enforcement Directorate (ED) and the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI), were for those who were in power, but they were being used to ensure the SP is unable to come to power in Uttar Pradesh.Also Read| Income Tax department raids Samajwadi Party leaders, Akhilesh slams Centre“These agencies were used to find out how to remove a party from the ruling government's position. But, for the first time, it is being seen that such agencies will be used to ensure that the Samajwadi Party does not form the government in Uttar Pradesh,” Yadav said at a press meet.The former UP chief minister said that whenever the BJP realises that it is losing an election anywhere in India, it unleashes the I-T department, the ED and the CBI.“We (Samajwadi Party) have experience of presenting documents to the ED and CBI, because the BJP is using central agencies to threaten, just like the Congress party did before,” the SP president added.Yadav said the present situation in UP shows the Yogi Adityanath government will not be able to survive for long. Reiterating his 'Un-Upyogi' (useless) jibe on the Yogi government, the SP leader said it has destroyed the entire state.Also Read| Tax raid at Akhilesh aide's place ahead of polls; Have no black money: SP leaderIncome tax raids were conducted on the premises of Rai and other SP leaders, a move the party said was politically motivated ahead of the assembly election next year.Following the searches on his premises in Mau, Rai said action was taken as the Union government did not like him helping out people. "I have no criminal background or black money. I help people and the BJP Government does not like it. This is a result of that." Rai told news agency ANI.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/agencies-being-used-to-keep-samajwadi-party-away-from-power-akhilesh-yadav-101639902196981.html
19-12-2021||Pune||Two arrested in Sangvi firing-murder case, 9 on run||The Pimpri Chinchwad police have arrested two out of 11 people identified in the firing and murder of a man in Katepuram chowk area of Sangvi on Saturday, officials said.The deceased was identified as Yogesh Ravindra Jagtap, 36, a resident of Gangardenagar in Katepuram area of Pimple Gurav.The two people arrested in the case were identified as Ganesh Bajirao Dhamale, a resident of Sangvi, and Akshay Kengale, also a resident of Sangvi.“We have arrested and taken them to court now,” said police inspector (crime) Sunil Tambe of Sangvi police station.The deceased was shot twice by a man wielding a gun while Jagtap was at a public gathering.A case under Sections 302 (murder), 109, 120(b) (criminal conspiracy), 504 (insult with an intention of provoking breach of peace), 506 (criminal intimidation) of the Indian Penal Code, along with Sections 3(25), 3(27) of Arms Act, was registered at Sangvi police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/two-arrested-in-sangvi-firing-murder-case-9-on-run-101639905861704.html
19-12-2021||Jaipur||These are the coldest places in Rajasthan. Some recorded sub-zero temperatures||Rajasthan was swept by cold winds from the country's northern parts as the minimum temperature in several cities in the state was recorded below the freezing point for the second consecutive day, according to the weather bureau on Sunday.The minimum temperature in Fatehpur Churu, Sikar, Karauli and Chittorgarh district was recorded below freezing point on Sunday, it said.According to the department, in almost all the 36 places where the weather is observed by the regional MeT department, the minimum temperature was recorded below 9 degrees Celsius on Saturday night. It also said the maximum temperature was recorded between 18 and 26 degrees Celsius in most places in the state.Also read | Delhi temperature dips to 4.6 on Sunday morning, Churu freezes at minus 2.6The MeT department said Fatehpur recorded minus 4.7 degrees Celsius and Churu saw the second coldest day with minus 2.6 degrees Celsius.Regional MeT director Radheshyam Sharma said Churu recorded the lowest minimum temperature in last 12 years this month, according to news agency PTI. Sharma also said the region recorded all-time lowest minimum of 4.6 degree Celsius in December 1973.Also read | Srinagar records season’s coldest night, Leh shivers at -17°C; snow in higher reaches of KashmirWeather officials said Sikar recorded minus 2.5 degrees Celsius followed by minus 0.6 degree in Karauli and minus 0.2 degree in Chittorgarh on Saturday night.Bhilwara recorded zero degree Celsius followed by 0.1 degree in Pilani, 0.2 degree in Nagaur, 0.4 degree in Alwar, 1.5 degrees in Banasthali and 1.8 degrees Celsius in Sangaria.Skymet said many other districts in Rajasthan like Udaipur, Ajmer, Jaipur, Kota and Bikaner recorded minimum temperatures of 5 degrees or less.Also read | Cold wave persists in Himachal, dense fog alert in five districts; snow in Manali, DalhousieThe private weather forecasting agency also predicted that cold winds from northwest will continue for the next 2 to 3 days. It also said the temperature in the western districts of Rajasthan will drop further or may remain in a similar range. Temperatures in the eastern districts of Rajasthan may remain stable for the next 24 hours and then gradually rise, it added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jaipur-news/these-are-the-coldest-places-in-rajasthan-some-recorded-sub-zero-temperatures-101639904681322.html
19-12-2021||Lucknow||UP to launch ‘happiness curriculum’ in primary schools from next session||On the lines of Chhattisgarh and Delhi, preparations are underway to implement the ‘happiness curriculum’ in primary schools of Uttar Pradesh under a pilot project to make the students more sensitive towards nature, society, and the country, officials said.State in-charge (happiness curriculum) Saurabh Malviya, who was here to participate in a six-day workshop at the State Institute of Educational Management and Training, told PTI the course is being developed keeping in mind the geographical and cultural conditions of Uttar Pradesh.The happiness curriculum will be introduced to the students of classes 1 to 8. It will enable them to connect with themselves, family, society, nature and the country. It will also help them understand interrelationships, Malviya said, adding the children will be taught meditation as well.As part of the pilot project, 150 schools in 15 districts have been asked to work on the curriculum. Five books will be prepared for the children in classes 1 to 5. In this sequence, the subject matter of the curriculum is being prepared by organising a workshop of 32 teachers, he said.Shravan Shukla, who participated in the workshop as a trainer, said preparations are on to implement the course from the next session starting in April 2022.Shukla informed there are 1,30,000 primary schools in Uttar Pradesh where seven lakh teachers are employed. Based on the evaluation of the pilot project, the state government may consider implementing the happiness curriculum in all schools, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/up-to-launch-happiness-curriculum-in-primary-schools-from-next-session-101639902386244.html
19-12-2021||Kolkata||Munawar Faruqui set to make comeback, to perform new show in Kolkata||Stand-up comedian Munawar Faruqui, who was last month denied a nod to hold a show in Bengaluru amid protests by some right-wing outfits, is set to perform in Kolkata in January.The comedian took to Twitter on Saturday evening and shared a link to book tickets for his two-hour comedy act "Dhandho", to be held on January 16.According to online ticket booking platform BookMyShow, the tickets -- priced at ₹799 -- were "filling fast".In November, Faruqui was under fire after the Bengaluru Police denied permission to his stand-up comedy show in the city amid protest by Hindu right-wing outfits, who alleged that he had hurt the Hindu sentiments in one of his shows.The 29-year-old comic had said his show – which had sold more than 600 tickets – was cancelled in the wake of the "threats to venue vandalism". The proceeds from the show were supposed to be donated to late Kannada star Puneeth Rajkumar's charitable organisation.Faruqui also claimed that 12 of his shows were called off in the last two months because of the threats to the venue and audiences."My name is Munawar Faruqui. And that's been my time, you guys were (a) wonderful audience. Good bye, I'm done," he had tweeted.A few days later, stand-up comedian Kunal Kamra, a vocal critic of the government, also said his shows, scheduled to be held in Bengaluru, were cancelled after the organisers received threats.Earlier this year, Faruqui had spent a month in jail at Indore after a BJP MLA's son lodged an FIR in January accusing the comedian of hurting religious sentiments through his show.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/munawar-faruqui-set-to-make-comeback-to-perform-new-show-in-kolkata-101639900751585.html
19-12-2021||Gurugram||Dumper truck rams into police car in Haryana's Nuh, driver booked for attempt to murder||An unidentified dumper truck driver was booked on the charge of attempt to murder for allegedly hitting the superintendent of police's vehicle, officials said on Friday.The incident took place on Thursday night when SP Varun Singla was checking overloaded trucks near Ganduri village here, they said.When the dumper truck was signalled to slow down, the driver allegedly accelerated and rammed the vehicle into the SP's car, the police said.Singla and other cops jumped out of the vehicle and saved themselves, they said.The truck driver, however, managed to flee, the police said, adding that the case was registered at the Nagina police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/dumper-truck-rams-into-police-car-in-haryana-s-nuh-driver-booked-for-attempt-to-murder-101639899791280.html
19-12-2021||Kolkata||Kolkata civic polls: TMC accuses BJP of tempting voters with Biryani||The Trinamool Congress and the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) have once again locked horns in a war of words as they contest the high-stakes Kolkata Municipal Corporation elections on Sunday. In a bizarre allegation, the TMC camp has accused its saffron opponents of tempting voters with Biryani – a dish much popular in the city for its distinctive mix. The incident, reported from north Kolkata's Maniktala area, has now generated considerable excitement in the region, reported Hindustan Times' sister publication HT Bangla.Also Read | One injured by crude bomb during Kolkata civic polls; low turnout till afternoonAccording to the allegations, cited by the publication, the Trinamool has accused the BJP of influencing prospective voters on the promise of Biryani. Elaborate cooking arrangements in this regard have also been made on the rooftop of a private hospital in the area, the ruling party claims, adding that the mixed rice dish is being delivered to voters from there.An official of the aforementioned hospital, however, has denied the charges. According to the hospital staffer, cited by a mainstream Bengali-language daily, the Biryani is being prepared for patients and other salaried workers of the medical facility.Local Trinamool Congress workers have now organised a sit-in before the hospital, demanding that not a single plate of Biryani should go outside the hospital premises.Meanwhile, TMC and Congress supporters got into a fistfight inside the premises of Sri Jain Vidyalaya on Brabourne Road in central Kolkata where a polling station was set up in ward No 45. Another incident, where a crude bomb went off and subsequently injured a man, was reported from the north-eastern part of the city this morning. The blast occurred near the polling station at Taki Boy’s School in KMC ward No 36, and both the TMC and the BJP later traded charges and accused each other of ferrying in outsiders to create trouble.Security has been tightened all over the Bengal capital and its entry points because of the polls. Ahead of the voting, prohibitory orders under Section 144 of the Code of Criminal Procedure (CrPC) were clamped within 100 meters of all polling stations.More than 23,500 policemen were deployed to ensure the safety of voters and the candidates contesting in the city’s 144 civic wards.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/kolkata-civic-polls-tmc-accuses-bjp-of-tempting-voters-with-biryani-101639896956063.html
19-12-2021||Kolkata||3 injured in crude bomb explosion during Kolkata civic polls, one arrested||Kolkata police on Sunday confirmed that three people were injured in the bomb explosion which took place in the north-eastern part of Kolkata on Sunday morning during the Kolkata Municipal Corporation (KMC) elections. One person has been arrested in the case, officials said.The incident took place near the polling station at Taki Boy’s School in KMC ward No 36. “The incident took place around 200 metres from the polling station. The election process has not been affected by this. A huge police contingent has been deployed in the area. We have appealed to voters to exercise their right to franchise without fear. The injured man has been taken to hospital,” Priyabrata Roy, deputy commissioner of police (eastern suburban division), told the media. The Kolkata Police said at 2.30 pm that one man was arrested in connection with the bomb explosion near Taki Boy’s School in which three local people were injured. “We have also identified the other miscreants but their names cannot be disclosed for the sake of investigation. As many as 72 people were arrested from all over Kolkata till 2 pm. Four of them were held for the trouble at Sri Jain Vidyalaya on Brabourne Road in ward No 45. The elections have been overall peaceful so far. Police took prompt action wherever allegations were raised. None of the 4559 polling booths were left unguarded,” said Subhankar Sinha Sarkar, joint commissioner of police (headquarters) “Complaints came from many people. The SEC also received complaints and forwarded these to us. We have filed action-taken reports,” said Sarkar. Shortly after Sarkar held the press conference at the police headquarters, the opposition parties alleged that TMC workers ransacked a polling booth (no 19) in ward no 23. Polling was also stalled at a booth in CIT Park Community Hall polling station in ward no 22 where the polling agent of the Congress was found with bleeding injuries. There were more clashes between Congress and TMC workers near Marwari Vidyalaya in ward no 23 in the business district of Burrabazar. The EVM machine was allegedly thrown on the ground. An officer of the SEC said on condition of anonymity that according to the report submitted by the police on the incident at Marwari Vidyalaya, the EVM machine was not damaged and its counting unit was thrown on the ground. The booth was not taken over by outsiders, as alleged, but polling was interrupted for some time,” the officer said. The CPI(M) alleged that a woman who was working as the party’s polling agent in one of the booths in ward No 33 was punched on the face and the car of its candidate from the port area was ransacked. Neither the police nor the SEC commented on these incidents till 3 pm when the polling rate stood at 52 %.Leaders of opposition parties, as well as the TMC, levelled allegations of intimidation and booth jamming in several areas. BJP leader Meena Devi Purohit, who has won from ward No 22 thrice since 2005 because of her popularity, alleged that she and her followers were attacked by TMC supporters at the polling station in Maheswari Boy’s School in central Kolkata in the morning. “A woman assaulted me and tore my blouse. They did not let me enter the booth,” Purohit said. Dismissing allegations that TMC was orchestrating all the violence, transport minister Firhad Hakim, who is contesting the polls, said, “They brought similar charges during the March-April assembly polls in Kolkata. The Election Commission of India looked into all the allegations and found them to be baseless.” Reacting to the BJP’s allegation that its polling agents were being driven out from many booths, Hakim said, “The BJP has not even read the manual issued by the election commission. It clearly says an agent has to be a resident of the area where the booth is located. The BJP cannot hire people from anywhere and send them as polling agents. The party has no organisation.”“I am very happy with the performance of the Kolkata Police. Polling is going on peacefully. The BJP’s allegation, that security cameras were deactivated in many places, is baseless. I personally visited some booths,” said Hakim. TMC national general secretary Abhishek Banerjee dismissed the BJP’s allegations and said strong action will be taken if any TMC worker is found to be involved in the alleged violence and electoral malpractice.“The TMC cannot do anything if the BJP does not have the organisational strength to deploy polling agents in all the booths. The polls are being held peacefully barring some stray incidents. If the media has any photo or video footage, showing our workers involved in violence or electoral malpractice, please provide it. Our party will give them exemplary punishment and so will the state administration. I am saying this as the TMC national general secretary,” Banerjee said after casting his vote at a school near his home at Harish Mukherjee Road in south Kolkata at 2 pm. There are more than 4500 polling booths in around 370 main and auxiliary polling stations in Kolkata. The BJP, Congress and CPI(M) raised allegations of violence and electoral malpratice at around 100 polling stations till 1 pm when the polling rate stood at 36.8 %. “The presiding officers in all polling booths are sitting as silent spectators. The TMC has shown how low its confidence is even after winning 213 of the state’s 294 assembly seats six months ago. Hundreds of our workers are still homeless because of the violence that took place after May,” said Bengal BJP’s chief spokesperson Samik Bhattacharya. “The Kolkata Police has proved that it is an organ of the ruling party and not a law enforcement agency. We started our agitation at 1 pm. It will spread to all districts after the polls,” Bhattacharya added. Governor Jadgeep Dhankhar and his wife cast their votes in a booth set up at the office of the principal accountant general. The governor said he asked his security personnel not to enter the polling station. “Last night the state election commission issued a directive saying only the security personnel of chief minister Mamata Banerjee and TMC Lok Sabha member Abhishek Banerjee can enter polling booths,” said Dhankhar. Two crude bombs also went off near Khanna cinema in north Kolkata but there was no report of injury. Security was tightened all over the Bengal capital and its entry points because of the polls. Prohibitory order under Section 144 of the Code of Criminal Procedure (CrPC) was clamped within 100 metres of all polling stations. More than 23,500 policemen were deployed to ensure the safety of voters and the candidates contesting in the city’s 144 civic wards. The Trinamool Congress (TMC) currently controls 126 of these seats. The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), which won five seats in the 2015 polls, alleged that the ruling party had ferried in outsiders to create trouble. “Our leaders spotted people from the districts coming to Kolkata in buses. We apprehend trouble. The TMC never allows free and fair elections,” Bengal BJP president Sukanta Majumdar said on Saturday. The BJP also lodged a complaint with the state election commission saying the ruling party unleashed violence all over the city so that voters stayed away from polling stations. The party announced that its workers will start an agitation from 1 pm and intensify the protest after polling was over. “People can see for themselves that we did not right thing by demanding deployment of CAPF. We will file a report before the Calcutta high court division bench during the next hearing on December 23,” said senior BJP leader Shishir Bajoria. The state election commission (SEC) installed security cameras inside all polling booths, counting centres and facilities to be used for storing around 6500 electronic voting machines (EVMs) following an order passed by the Calcutta high court on December 16. The petition was filed by the BJP. The BJP had also moved the high court seeking deployment of central armed police forces (CAPF). It told the court that BJP candidates and voters may face violence on Sunday and cited the alleged killings after the March-April assembly polls as the ground for such apprehension. The BJP’s petition was rejected by a single bench on Thursday and the division bench of chief justice Prakash Shrivastava and justice Rajarshi Bhardwaj on Friday night. The party challenged the order in the Supreme Court but no hearing was held. Meanwhile, TMC and Congress supporters got into a fistfight inside the premises of Sri Jain Vidyalaya on Brabourne Road in central Kolkata where a polling station was set up in ward No 45. This, however, did not affect the polling process, said policemen deployed at the spot. The troublemakers were removed by the police.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/one-injured-by-crude-bomb-during-kolkata-civic-polls-low-turnout-till-afternoon-101639897342182.html
19-12-2021||Delhi||DU drops cut offs: Less stress for aspirants now?||Delhi University’s Executive Committee (EC) has given its nod to conducting entrance exam-based admission, and ever since, aspirants are in a fix, wondering if this is good news or something to fret about. DU will do away with the system of cut-offs from the academic year 2022, and aspirants can seek admission through entrance exams. So, does doing away with sky-rocketing cut offs imply less stress? “It is quite revolutionary,” says Adveer Singh, a Delhi-based aspirant, while Khushi Gupta, also from Delhi, adds: “To those in class XII, people would say, ‘You have to get 100% no matter what, because you’ve to get into DU’. It’s not that we won’t work hard now; we’ll enjoy the process.” Whether DU will have its own exam or adopt the central test pattern is yet to be decided. But Singh opines: “An entrance exam tests your aptitude while cut off system tests memory. The approach of studying for boards and entrance is way different. It’s great that the central education system will finally test our aptitude, rather than memory.” Aarushi Pandey, an aspirant from IBDP board, feels this decision will give candidates a better shot at getting into DU. Considering how several students from the Kerala board made it to DU due to their high percentages, she adds, “The new approach may add to the pressure of giving exams, but it’s surely better than how the cut offs have been skyrocketing to nearly unattainable levels in the past few years.” Veer Khanna, a Gurugram-based aspirant, feels the move will ease the inherent stress and pressure for class XII board exams. “I don’t know what the syllabus for entrance exams would be, but if it allows for slightly more specialised testing, I am all for it,” he adds.Author Tweets @Nainaarora8Follow more stories on Facebook and Twitter
19-12-2021||Other||Dalit sarpanch in Odisha takes to begging to make ends meet||Chief minister Naveen Patnaik may be pulling out all the stops to empower the panchayati raj institutions of the state, but a Dalit sarpanch in his home district of Ganjam has been begging to make ends meet.Hema Nayak, a 61-year-old Dalit sarpanch of Badapalli grampanchayat in Khallikote block of Ganjam district, has been begging around the area to run her family which includes her husband, sons and daughters-in-law. In the 2017 panchayat polls, Nayak was elected uncontested from the panchayat as hers was the only Dalit family living and the post of sarpanch was reserved for a Dalit woman.But her getting elected as sarpanch did not usher in any change in her living standard as she continued to seek alms from people of neighbouring villages of Manikpur, Maheswarpur and Kairash. As a sarpanch she gets a monthly honorarium of ₹2350, but she continued to beg even after getting elected.Panchayat extension officer of Badapalli, K Jogendra Reddy said he tried several times in the past to get her to stop begging. “But after a few days she would again start begging,” Reddy said.Hema’s husband Ghana Nayak works as a peon with the local grampanchayat office. The landless Nayak family, comprising Hema, her husband, younger son and two daughters-in-law live in a dilapidated house. Her elder son is a migrant worker while the younger one is a daily wager. On Thursday, Hema was seen attending a function in which Khallikote MLA Suryamani Baidya distributed Biju Swasthya Kalyan Yojna health smart cards. After the function, she again resumed begging.“In the last 5 years, I have gone to the panchayat office only 4-5 times. I have no idea of the work that happens in panchayat. I don’t know how much salary I get. My husband draws it from the panchayat office,” said Nayak, who did not even know who the local Block Development Officer is. Locals said the sarpanch knows nothing except writing a few words in Odia.Elected sarpanchs in Odisha are responsible for several things in villages including construction, repair and maintenance of water supply, lighting of public streets, protection of public properties and establishment, management and maintenance of common grounds among others. They are also supposed to supervise soil conservation works and regulate fairs and festivals in the panchayat apart from implementing schemes for social justice and economic development.Last year, at the height of the pandemic, sarpanchs were given the power of district collectors for the management of Covid-19 in their respective areas.Block Development Officer of Khallikote, Mitali Patra, said the sarpanch did not need to beg as she gets a monthly honorarium. “She has been allotted a house under Indira Awas Yojana. We are trying to find out the reason behind her begging,” said the BDO. On Saturday, the sarpanch was given ₹10,000 from the District Red Cross Fund by the local administration.Sandeep Patnaik, who works with Pune-based National Centre for Advocacy Studies that works on people-centred advocacy, said the incidence of a Dalit sarpanch begging for survival was a symptom of a larger malaise that is affecting , Odisha’s panchayati raj governance.“Though Odisha has announced 50 per cent reservation for women in PRI institutions since 2012 and claims of devolution of power to panchayats, in real terms such institutions have no power. All the power is exercised either by the district collector or the BDOs. The three Acts that the state government passed for gram panchayats, panchayat samitis and zilla parishads have so many rules that it is difficult for even an educated functionary to know the intricacies, forget about illiterate sarpanch. Unless the Acts are amended in consonance with the 73rd Amendment Act of the Constitution, panchayat iraj governance would be just another slogan in Odisha,” said Patnaik.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/dalit-sarpanch-in-odisha-takes-to-begging-to-make-ends-meet-101639892599998.html
19-12-2021||Kolkata||Kolkata Municipal Corporation election today, TMC-BJP fight for 144 wards||West Bengal is set to witness another high-stakes electoral battle on Sunday, months after the all-important assembly elections and the subsequent Bhabanipur bypolls earlier this year. Today, the Trinamool Congress (TMC) has once again locked horns with the opposing Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) – all for the control of the Kolkata Municipal Corporation (KMC) in the civic polls.The December 19 KMC elections are a crucial test for the BJP, which had to yield to the Mamata Banerjee-led Trinamool at the assembly polls earlier this year and consequently face a series of defections from its ranks to the ruling party. However, Banerjee's side looks formidable ahead of the KMC polls; not only had the TMC won all 17 Vidhan Sabha seats in Kolkata in the assembly elections, but they also displayed dominance in the city during the Lok Sabha elections less than three years ago. Most pre-poll surveys, too, have pitched the Trinamool Congress as the winning contender in these KMC elections.Elections to all the 144 wards of the KMC are being held on Sunday, with the voting process commencing at 7am and concluding at 5pm.The counting of votes will take place on December 21.Meanwhile, the Kolkata Police has heightened vigil across the city and its neighbouring areas, deploying around 23,000 personnel in view of the civic polls.Apart from initiating stringent checks at hotels and various entry points from last evening, officers of the force have also been visiting hotels and guest houses in the metropolis to keep a tab on the number of guests who have checked in and those due to arrive in the next two days.“We want to ensure that the elections are totally peaceful and we have strengthened vigil in Kolkata, Salt Lake, Howrah, and North and South 24 Parganas districts for that purpose,” a senior police official told the PTI news agency. “Areas of focus are Esplanade, New Market, Central Avenue, Gariahat, Ballygunge, Tollygunge, Garia, and Salt Lake.”Route march and area domination has also started at various key locations of the city, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/kolkata-municipal-corporation-election-today-tmc-bjp-fight-for-144-wards-101639876161860.html
19-12-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana | Assistant professors’ association issues memorandum as protest enters Day 47||Ludhiana The Guest Faculty-cum-Assistant Professors’ Association’s protest against the state government’s advertisement for recruitment of new assistant professors on Saturday entered its 47th day.Demanding regularisation of jobs, a panel of the protesters handed over a memorandum to Bharat Bhushan Ashu, state minister for food and consumer affairs, at his office.According to them, the new posts would cost the guest faculty their positions. “The new candidates will get the job and we will lose our employment. Government should have created the new posts. We will have to expedite our protest now as it is the matter of life and death for us,” Falwinder Verma, a protester, said.The protesters claimed that the government is looking to replace the 906-strong workforce of guest faculty, who have been working in state colleges for over two decades. Verma said the new policy would require guest faculty to compete with the new candidates in the common test scheduled for later this month. A professor added that the protesting faculty throughout the state would gherao the house of Pargat Singh, state education minister, if their demands are not heard.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-assistant-professors-association-issues-memorandum-as-protest-enters-day-47-101639873157814.html
19-12-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana | Contractual workers lift roadblock after 26 hours||Twenty-six hours after contractual workers, seeking regularisation, laid siege to the national highway near Khanna, the blockade was finally lifted after receiving assurances from Cabinet minister Gurkirat Singh Kotli on Saturday. The contractual staff, who were protesting under the banner of the ‘Theka Karamchari Sangharsh Morcha’ did not allow any vehicle to pass the area for 24 hours, inconveniencing commuters. Police have diverted the traffic from Mandi Gobindgarh and Doraha to other roads to avoid traffic jams.Meeting the contractual workers, who along with their family members, including women and children, had been protesting in the extreme cold and fog, Kotli said he will fix a meeting of their representatives with chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi at the Punjab Bhawan in Chandigarh on Sunday. Contractual employees of 11 different departments had participated in the protest near village Bhattian. Earlier, too, the police officials had tried to pacify the protestors, but in vain. Contractual workers’ leaders Varinder Singh Momi, Jagrup Singh and Gurwinder Singh Pannu said a further course of action would be decided after meeting the chief minister.During the protest Yadwinder Singh Yadu, a member of central working committee of Shiromani Akali Dal along with his supporters, arranged langar for the protesting contractual employees.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-contractual-workers-lift-roadblock-after-26-hours-101639868714614.html
19-12-2021||Delhi||CM leads assembly Christmas celebrations, says govt working to keep Covid in control||Chief minister Arvind Kejriwal led the annual Christmas celebrations in the Delhi assembly premises on Saturday and said people should respect all religions and celebrate all festivals.“I extend my heartfelt greetings to all the people of Delhi and the whole country on the occasion of Christmas and New Year. I pray from the bottom of my heart that the new year is abundantly prosperous for all of us. This is the seventh consecutive year of Christmas celebrations in the Vidhan Sabha. When we came to power in 2015, we had decided that our country is a bouquet of all kinds of religions and cultures. We decided that we must celebrate this unique aspect of our country and started celebrating all festivals in the Vidhan Sabha premises,” he said at the event.On the Omicron variant, he said, “Now we are hearing news regarding the Omicron strain, which is spreading very quickly and has already arrived in India. Several cases have also been discovered in most major cities in the country. The updates from Europe state that since this virus is so easily transmitted, it could be overwhelming to deal with once it spreads. However, I want to assure you all that the Delhi government is doing everything in its capacity to keep the situation under control. Ever since the news of Omicron arrived, I have been taking repeated review meetings with all concerned departments so that we are well prepared to deal with the probable threat. It’s also being said that this particular strain is not as dangerous – has mild symptoms, but spreads easily. So there’s no need to stress over it or be afraid.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/cm-leads-assembly-christmas-celebrations-says-govt-working-to-keep-covid-in-control-101639867635956.html
19-12-2021||Chandigarh||Obituary: Surinder Singh Dosanj will live on through his teachings||In an age, when arguments run long and tempers short, eminent author and academician Surinder Singh Dosanj stood out like a natural rose among rows upon rows of artificial flowers. This is the fragrance that Dosanj , who was also a journalist, political ideologue and interpreter of scriptures, brought to the lives of his students and colleagues. When I joined the Punjab Agricultural University as an assistant professor in the department of journalism, languages and culture, I was more of a colt than a teacher, while Dosanj was already a name that commanded respect in intellectual and ideological spheres. As is typical of me, I inevitably began by challenging his opinions and beliefs and as he had a reputation of a firebrand orator, I expected him to come down hard at me. Instead, in the days and years that followed he not only educated me on how meaningless opinions are without a matching persona to back them, but also to help me live my childhood a second time over. I could also see that this was exactly what he would make hundreds if not thousands of others – his students, colleagues and rivals – experience his presence. He was to remain a close friend, guide, father-like patron and above all a gurudev, who taught me (and countless others) like a sober and patient seer. Dr Dosanj’s reputation as a liberal, left-leaning intellectual owed a lot to the passionate manner in which he had championed the cause of an ideologically-inspired generation of youngsters around what is known in Punjab as the Moga agitation. We often had strong ideological conflicts invariably stretching into late nights. But amid all the heat and passion of these debates, he never stopped being a warm and loving “fatherly host” nor lost patience with my youthful ways, literally hand-holding me through my arrogant convictions. One of his biggest assets was his ability, even while taking a contrarian position, to help his critics understand their own ideas and intellectual positions on key issues more clearly than before. At a time when social media has rendered patient, meaningful debates an almost an archival species, Dosanj kept producing students well-versed in calmly working through the maze of diverse ideas and opinions, using debate and discussions not to win arguments but to understand life and issues better. This is now forgotten art, though this is just the art which has been handed down to us through rich traditions since the era of the Upanishads and of the roving seers. In modern times, Guru Nanak turned debate and discussion – goshat – into a sublime art form, and a means to unravel the mysteries of the universe and its creator. It was this tradition that Dosanj followed, turning each one of his disciples into a seeker or a student (a sishya or a Sikh) rather than a claimant of knowledge of truth. The great Guru showed us the glory of humility in the face of the infinite unknown. This was the essential teaching of the great gurus which Dosanj seemed to focus the most on. With teachers like him, learning is never a goal but a process – a lifelong romance. As an author, an intellectual activist and later as a teacher, Dosanj encouraged keeping passions calm amid stormy events. And it is this quality which strikes first whenever you come across his students. I was always deeply pained by the intellectual dishonesty that I had the misfortune of seeing in many of his highly celebrated acquaintances-cum-friends who benefited immensely from his magnanimity only to repay with the proverbial dagger that loves a friend’s back. But I also learnt from him how to treat “motiveless malignity” with tolerance and even with limitless love and an indescribable warmth so real that you could actually touch it. He simply refused to allow ingratitude to provoke him away from his composure, no matter how deeply that ingratitude must have hurt, as ingratitude always does. My mother used to say, “The only way to pay reverence to a scripture is to live it.” I found in Dosanj these words revealing themselves as truth walking in human form. These I believe are the qualities which almost all of his students, many of whom rose to occupy high positions in the world journalism, civil service and academia, have inherited from him. Many of them would be turning to Ludhiana to pay homage to a fragrance that will always tip-toe through their hearts as long as they find a moment away from the “confused and confusing din of towns and cities” in which men and women have time for everything except what lives within them –compassion. It was this last word that defined the man who will never go away from the lives of those who shared but a moment with him. Farewell, but no farewell , Gurudev( The writer is a long-time close aide of former chief minister Parkash Singh Badal is media adviser to the Shiromani Akali Dal)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/obituary-surinder-singh-dosanj-will-live-on-through-his-teachings-101639867514270.html
19-12-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana | Nurses take out protest march on 3rd day of strike||Continuing their strike for the third consecutive day against the recommendations of the sixth pay commission, staff nurses deputed at civil and government hospitals took out a protest march from the Civil Hospital to Jagraon Bridge on Saturday.On the call of the Punjab Nurses Association, around 200 staff nurses have been striking to seek pay parity, and payment of certain allowances among other assorted demands. During the protest march, movement of traffic was also interrupted in the Field Ganj area and the Jagraon Bridge.In the absence of nurses, the working of the civil hospital, especially the mother and child hospital, was severely hampered. The emergency caesarean (c-section) cases had to be referred to Christian Medical College & Hospital, Ludhiana, as hospitals in other districts including Rajindra Hospital,Patiala, were unable to provide services in absence of nurses.The department is now dependent on the contractual nursing staff and final year nursing students who have been called from Mohan Dai Oswal hospital due to the emergency. But they cannot perform c-section delivery for which trained staff is required.Senior medical officer (SMO), mother and child hospital, RS Chahal said footfall in the hospital had decreased as the public is aware of the strike. Punjab Nurses’ Association district president Asha said,” Rather than increase the pay grade of nurses, our pay has been reduced under the sixth pay commission. Our strike will continue till our demands are fulfilled by the government.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-nurses-take-out-protest-march-on-3rd-day-of-strike-101639867273797.html
19-12-2021||Chandigarh||Heating lamps to keep birds warm in Chandigarh’s aviary this winter||With the plunging mercury in the city, UT forest department has decided to install heating lamps inside the Chandigarh Bird Park to keep the birds warm, said officials. UT chief conservator of forests Debendra Dalai said, “We have been running trials to see which kind of heating lamps would work best inside these enclosures. The lamps need to be of good quality to ensure no accidents take place and the final decision will be made in the next couple of days after which the heating lamps will be installed.”Dalai added that extra precautions will be taken to ensure that birds don’t come in direct contact with the lamps, which are likely to raise the temperature inside the enclosures up to 10 degrees. The department currently is also using clear polythene sheets to cover the sides and top of the enclosure from where the cold winds enter in order to keep the birds warm. Over 60,000 visitors in first month at bird parkIt has now been over a month since the first lady of India, Savita Kovind, inaugurated the Chandigarh Bird Park on November 16, and as per officials, over 60,000 people have visited the park ever since.Dalai said, “On an average, we get 1,500 visitors on a weekday. The number goes over 5,000 on weekends. On a weekly basis, we are getting about 15,000 visitors here so it has been a great success with the locals and tourists alike.”The facility remains closed on Monday and Tuesday, which Dalai said is due to the fact that Sunday remains one of their most popular days and the birds need another day to rest before they are ready for the visitors at the walk-through facility. As per the staff present there, the terrestrial birds’ enclosure has been the most popular and especially children enjoy this the most. The bird park is spread over 6.5 acres in Nagar Van and comprises two small aviaries and two walk-through aviaries. It is open between 10am and 5pm from Wednesday to Sunday. There are 250 pairs of birds with 48 total species and subspecies and the main attractions are African Love Birds, Budgerigars, White Swan, Black Swan, Wood duck, Golden Pheasant, Yellow Golden Pheasant, Green Wing Macaw, Sun Conure, African Grey Parrot, Finches and Melanistic Pheasant.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/heating-lamps-to-keep-birds-warm-in-chandigarh-s-aviary-this-winter-101639867033773.html
19-12-2021||Chandigarh||Lotus will bloom again in Chandigarh MC: BJP’s Kataria||Member of parliament (MP) from Ambala and former Union minister Rattan Lal Kataria campaigned in the city by addressing a series of public meetings on Saturday. Kataria campaigned for Rajesh Kalia (ward 26) in Dadumajra market, Manoj Sonkar (ward 7) at Mauli Jagran market, Bharat Kumar (ward 31) at Sector 52 and Usha (ward 16) at Sector-25 mandi. Kataria said the Chandigarh MC polls would be a one-sided affair in the favour of the BJP as voters have made up their mind. “The lotus will bloom again in the corporation and ensure all-round city development which will be backed by the central government,” said Kataria. Also present at the meetings were Rakesh Agarwal, Arvind Singh, Lalit Chauhan and Varinder Tamta.Hans Raj Hans canvasses for party candidatesBJP leader and MP Hans Raj Hans on Saturday said that theirs is the only political party in the country which gives maximum respect to Dalits and Other Backward Classes (OBC) and ensures that their interests are protected.Hans Raj Hans,who is also a noted singer, was in Chandigarh on Saturday to address a series of public rallies in favour of BJP candidates in the wake of upcoming local bodies polls scheduled for December 24. He canvassed for Bhupendra Sharma (ward 34) in Sector 46, Harjeet Singh (ward 8) in Raipur Khurd, Savita Gupta (ward 4) at Indira Colony in Manimajra, Neha Arora (ward 23) in Sector 35 and Vijay Rana (ward 25) at Sector 37. He said while the BJP-led central government has initiated numerous welfare schemes for all sections and walks of the society, Chandigarh has convincingly benefited from those schemes. “As the elections are approaching, one seat of BJP is increasing every day with increasing support from people,” he said. Representatives of many organisations announced their support to the BJP in the presence of Hans Raj.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/lotus-will-bloom-again-in-chandigarh-mc-bjp-s-kataria-101639866975095.html
19-12-2021||Chandigarh||₹21 lakh stolen from scrap dealer’s car in Ludhiana||The windowpane of a scrap dealer’s car was broken open on Friday evening, and a bag containing ₹21 lakh was stolen from it. The complainant, Sunny Kapoor, 37, of Fatehgunj mohalla, had parked his car outside a bank on Gill Road and had gone inside to get his account statement. The police suspect that the accused new that the complainant was carrying a huge amount of cash as they only targeted his car and paid no attention to the 10 other cars parked in the area. Kapoor said he had left his house at around 10.30am in his Ritz with the bag of cash, He had reached his new under construction house in Sector 32, Chandigarh Road around 11am and had stayed at the site till 4pm. Thereafter, he had visited his friend, Saurav, at his office at Pratap Chowk, and had remained there for around 20 minutes. He had then left for the bank. When he emerged from the bank at around 5pm, he found the windowpane of the car was broken and the bag missing. Assistant commissioner of police (ACP, industrial area-B) Rajan Sharma said, “The incident has been captured on CCTV cameras, and three persons have been captured executing the crime. The accused broke the windowpane in one strike and stole the bag. A case has been registered under Section 379 (theft), 427 (damage to the amount of ₹50) and 34 (common intention) of the Indian Penal Code against unidentified accused. A hunt is on for the arrest of the accused.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/21-lakh-stolen-from-scrap-dealer-s-car-in-ludhiana-101639866973765.html
19-12-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh MC polls: AAP not a ‘jumla’ party, it delivers on promises: Sanjay Singh||Senior Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) leader and Rajya Sabha member Sanjay Singh, who was campaigning for the upcoming elections of municipal corporation in Chandigarh on Saturday, said that the AAP is not a ‘jumla’ party and it delivers on its promises.He was speaking at a rally at the rehabilitation colony in Dhanas where he said that the day AAP wins here, the party will make sure that residents here will get 24x7 water supply and 20,000 litre free water every month. Rehabilitation colony in Dhanas and Sarangpur village are ward number 15 of Chandigarh MC.He said that people know that AAP does not lie. “If we say that we will provide better facilities to you, then we deliver on it. You can see in Delhi how we are providing better education to children. The party will also establish mohalla clinics here like we did in Delhi,” he added. “The AAP will serve the people in this ward. The party will ensure proper sanitation and development of the colony,” he said while appealing people to vote in favour of AAP’s candidate in the ward.Singh took a jibe at both the Congress and the BJP over the Chandigarh’s poor show in recent swachh rankings. “Both the parties are responsible for the decline of Chandigarh in swachh rankings. The AAP will make sure that the city reaches to the number one spot in cleanliness, if it is given a chance,” he said.Singh said, “While the BJP government is hiking the prices, AAP provides free education, electricity, healthcare facilities, and public transport for females in Delhi.”Speaking about the promise made by AAP supremo Arvind Kejriwal that ₹1,000 would be given to women per month if his party comes to power in Punjab, Singh said, “We have a dream to extend this to people across the country.”Meanwhile, Residents’ Welfare Association (RWA) of Sector 19 C has extended its support to AAP candidate Omkar Singh Aulakh.Aulakh is the nominee from ward number 11, which comprises sectors 18, 19 and 21. RWA held a public gathering at a park near the local police station to show its support to the candidate.Former Union minister and senior AAP leader Harmohan Dhawan also reached the venue.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-mc-polls-aap-not-a-jumla-party-it-delivers-on-promises-sanjay-singh-101639866793715.html
19-12-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: Two women arrested for furnishing false affidavit in court||Two women have been booked for filing false affidavit in the district court while standing surety for the accused in a theft case. The women are Harbans Kaur and Karamjit Kaur, both from Mohali. They have been arrested and were sent to judicial custody on Saturday. The case was registered against the two on the direction of judicial magistrate Puneet Mohinia. As per the police, the two women had filed an affidavit as surety for an accused in a theft case registered in the Industrial Area police station on October 31. The women in the affidavit had submitted that they have not stood surety for bail of any other person in any other court. But later on verification, it came to the fore that the accused women had stood surety in another case. The court then directed the police to register a case against them under sections 420, 465, 467, 468 and 471 of the IPC.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-two-women-arrested-for-furnishing-false-affidavit-in-court-101639866378978.html
19-12-2021||Chandigarh||Wildbuzz | Out, damned temptation!||To excel at bird photography may entail navigating treacherous terrain, and stumbling through a veritable minefield of temptation and unethical practices. Ordeals and violations, little known to receptive audiences far away on social media. The ‘likes clickers’ absorb only carefully-curated digitalised triumphs, often posted from the spot itself!Panchkula-based Anu Garg is a doughty birder but she has had to strain at every sinew of her moral being to desist from exploiting birds to bag an ‘awsum pic’ that attracts ‘likes’, like houseflies. “The crested kingfisher is pursued relentlessly by photographers for days and weeks. I got a chance to photograph it at Chakki Modh and was tempted to go back to secure more angles of this enigmatic species. But then, I paused, I had to strain hard to resist temptation. I did not go back after the first time. I had got a decent photo, I was content, I did not want to indulge in an ethics-free and a repetitive, ruthless pursuit of unattainable image perfection. Going back again and again, and poking my lens into the bird’s ambient environment, would have disrupted its natural rhythms,” Garg told this writer.Garg confesses with rare candour that she finds it an uphill task to abide by her precept: ‘Nature is not for you. If you truly love nature, then do not exploit. At the end of the day, if you have bagged no worthwhile or exotic photograph but have not disturbed the birds, take it in your stride, be joyous, for Nature’s wellbeing is supreme.’ What disturbs her no end is the odious spectacle of photographers using lures or bird calls (easily available on smartphones). “At the Thapli forests, I saw photographers – young, impatient ones and some veterans, too – using lures to attract the Indian pitta. The poor pitta was conned and virtually flew into their lap. Initially, I, too, was tempted to use the lure because the photographic opportunity was very rewarding but my daughter, Aasha, objected and resolved my dilemma. ‘Why should you follow the pack, Mama?’ was Aasha’s searching question. The pitta, which had its plate full with the ongoing courtship, mating and nesting season, was totally disoriented by lures and kept calling for 30 minutes to a supposed mate or a territorial rival who just did not exist,” added Garg. Yikes!Snake! Can winter be far behind Householders, whose lives are intertwined with snake habitats due to colonisation and fragmentation of the wilderness, may not spot them during monsoons when burrows get flooded and snakes are all over, or so as the popular perception goes. This is because dense vegetation reduces snake visibility, and the reptiles are engaged with the secretive tasks of hunting and breeding.However, come winter, Rock pythons, Rat snakes, Russell’s vipers and cobras get exposed in the very same locations because these large-bodied snakes seek open, dry areas to bask. Then, these hitherto invisible snakes or ghosts of the monsoons, are spotted and rescue teams rush to nab the so-called intruders who have, unexpectedly, jarred civilisation’s nerves and added to the shivers of winter.With deepening frost and withering vegetation, pythons slide out of burrows to bask in the Sukhna Lake area, and rescue teams have to speedily shed their winter sloth. In Panchkula, vipers are nabbed, absorbing warmth in the open before they can stage a retreat to burrows/hideouts.The above species do not go into complete hibernation but alternate their dormancy in burrows with a few hours of basking. On the other hand, species such as the common krait resort to near-complete dormancy through winter. vjswild1@gmail.com||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/wildbuzz-out-damned-temptation-101639866254081.html
19-12-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: 19-year-old held for bicycle theft||A 19-year-old youth was arrested for bicycle theft, Chandigarh Police said on Saturday. In his complaint, Himanshu of Bapu Dham Colony in Sector 26 said that an unknown person had stolen his bicycle parked outside his house on the intervening night of December 14 and December 15. A case was registered under section 379 and section 411 of the IPC was added later. The police have arrested Parmod of Mauli Jagran for the theft and also recovered seven stolen cycles from his possession. The accused told the police that he used to steal bicycles from different sectors of Chandigarh. Three arrested for gamblingChandigarh Police have arrested three persons for gambling. The accused are Suresh, 32, and Sandeep of Daddumajra Colony and Vivek, 19, of Sector 25. They were caught while playing satta in a park on Friday. The police have also recovered ₹3,850 from the accused. A case under the provisions of the Gambling Act was registered at the Maloya police station against them. They were later released on bail. Military lit fest: Fifth edition’s 3rd episode screened The third episode of the fifth edition of Military Literature Festival was screened on Saturday. This year’s theme is ‘Golden Jubilee of Bangladesh Liberation War’. Four sessions were held on Saturday. The first one was on air and naval operations, which was addressed by Sqn Ldr PPS Gill. Another session on paradrop at Tangail was addressed by Brig PK Ghosh. Lt Gen KJ Singh spoke on Taliban and competitive extremism. A panel discussion on ‘Afghanistan: What lies ahead’ was conducted by Ambassador Gurjit Singh, Ambassador Vivek Katju and Dr Christine Fair. Sunday will mark the last day of the festival. Haryana folk singer enthrals audience at Kalagram The four-day ‘Raagini and Saang Mahotsava’ is being organised by the North Zone Cultural Centre (NZCC) at Kalagram. Saturday marked the third day of the event, which started with Haryana folk singer Bali Ram Sharma singing bhajans and ‘raagini’. Road safety programme held at Sector-54 govt schoolA road safety programme was organised at the government high school in Sector 54 by the awareness team of the Chandigarh traffic police. DSP (Traffic R&D) Jaswinder Singh discussed the Motor Vehicles Act along with the amendments made in 2019, the Central Motor Vehicles Rules, and the Motor Vehicle Driving Regulation. The team also discussed the harmful effects of using mobile phones and wearing earphones while driving and the importance of wearing proper helmets and seat belts. Various road signages were also discussed. Videos of accidents were also shown and a quiz was conducted for the students.PU women win NZ tennis titlePanjab University women bagged top honours in the North Zone Tennis Championship held at Deenbandhu Chhotu Ram University Of Science And Technology, Murthal, Sonepat, beating Punjabi University, Patiala, 2-0, to take the title. Panjab University’s Himaanshika Singh beat Samriti 6-2, 6-0 and Simran Pritam beat Pooja 6-1, 6-2 to walk away with the title. The team had been trained by coach Birbal Wadhera. MD University, Rohtak, finished third and Jamia Milia Islamia, Delhi, was fourth.PGIMER doctor given Lifetime achievementAs per the information shared by the Public Relations Officer of PGIMER, Prof. Shashanka Mohan Bose, former senior professor, was presented with the Lifetime Achievement Award by the Association of Surgeons of India, the highest award of this prestigious organisation with a membership of more than 28,000 surgeons. The award was presented during the Fellowship Convocation of the association, which was held on Thursday at Visakhapatnam. Prof. Bose is known for his work in the fields of teaching and Research.Competition to sensitise students, parentsA drawing and quiz competition was held at Museum and Art Gallery Sector 10. to sensitise parents and students to vote in the forthcoming election of Municipal Corporation (MC), scheduled for December 24. The event was organised in collaboration with the Education Department and State Election Commission and around 200 students of government schools from across the city participated.Pay scales row: PU, college teachers continue to protestThe members of Panjab University Teachers Association (PUTA) on Saturday held a protest march at the varsity’s dental institute over non-implementation of revised UGC pay scales as per seventh pay commission by the Punjab government. The protest was a part of statewide Education Bandh called by the banner of Punjab Federation of University and College Teachers Organisations (PFUCTO). Mritunjay Kumar, president of PUTA, briefed teachers about the efforts being made at the level of PUTA/PFUCTO to get the issues resolved at the earliest.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-19-year-old-held-for-bicycle-theft-101639866014337.html
19-12-2021||Chandigarh||Santokhwinder is new Punjab and Haryana HC Bar body head||Santokhwinder Singh Grewal (Nabha) has been elected as the president of Punjab and Haryana High Court Bar Association (PHHCBA). In the polls held on Friday, Nabha defeated his nearest rival Amit Rana with 559 votes. Nabha was polled 1,455 votes and Rana got 896 votes. Others elected for the PHHCBA executive are Karan Nehra for the post of vice-president; Vishal Aggarwal for the post of secretary; Kanu Sharma for the post of joint secretary and Sahil Gambhir for treasurer. As many as 3,246 lawyers had cast their votes out of 4,075 eligible voters this time. The counting of votes ended late on Friday. After the election, Nabha, 43, the 2001 student council president of Panjab University, said his priorities would be to resolve issue of parking at the high court complex and construction and allotment of more chambers to the lawyers. He also said that he would soon meet chief ministers of both the states to secure financial aid for the Bar body so that lawyers affected due to pandemic could be helped. Toni elected as Chandigarh DBA presidentSunil Toni has been elected as the president of District Bar Association, Chandigarh.He got 862 votes. He defeated his nearest rival Ravinder Bassi, who secured 472 votes. The vice-president elected is Amrit Veer. The post of secretary has been bagged by Mukesh Kumar and the joint secretary is Navdeep Kaur.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/santokhwinder-is-new-punjab-and-haryana-hc-bar-body-head-101639865473983.html
19-12-2021||Chandigarh||Guest Column | Make your child fall in love with books||“There is more treasure in books than in all the pirates’ loot on Treasure Island” - Walt Disney “Did you ever have trouble teaching me the alphabet or making me finish homework when I was little?” my precocious daughter asked me. “Never,” I asserted, “I made you readers first and students later.” This has always been my advice to anxious mothers, who have approached me over the years asking me how to inculcate the reading habit in their children or how to make them fall in love with books. As a mother and as an educationist, here are a few tips that I have found useful in developing reading as a lifestyle. Read out loud: Children are made readers on the laps of their parents. Both parents should take turns to read out loud to their wards. In India, most parents undermine the importance of this activity. Also, there is a myth that it is the mother’s responsibility to develop the reading habit in children. Remember, parenting is a shared responsibility. So, fathers, don the reading cap if you wish to see your kids grow up to be “readers”. Catch them young: Do not wait for them to grow up. Ignite the passion of reading in children at a tender age. Thomas Paine once said, “The mind once enlightened cannot again become dark.” I remember, I began singing nursery rhymes to my daughters when they were in their cradles, and could hardly make any head or tail of it. My perseverance paid off when they could recite all the rhymes before they started kindergarten. It is the same for reading too. Read out to them even if they are too young to comprehend anything. One day they will be grateful to you for your time and effort. A gift that keeps on giving:  On every occasion, and for every little achievement, gift your child a book. After all, “a book is a gift, you can open again and again.” Teach the child to value a book by giving and receiving books on all happy occasions. The child would learn to relate happy memories to the books he or she received and would cherish them throughout his life. Similarly, encourage them to buy books for you for your special occasions as well. Ask them to scribble a note for you and do the same for them to turn ordinary books into lifelong memories. Better a bookaholic than shopaholic: You can never buy enough books! In fact, the best blessing you can give your child is to wish for their shelves to always overflow with books. Take them on a trip to a bookstore or a library and let them spend “happy hours” in the company of books. These days, you can find seating areas in good bookstores where the child can spend hours ‘leafing’ through books. He may or may not end up buying those books, but would definitely come back for more. ‘Monkey and cap’ approach: It is said that children are great imitators. So, give them something great to imitate. Children become imitators by the age of three. Little girls imitate their mothers by putting on lipstick or nail polish and little boys imitate their fathers in mannerisms . So, implement the ‘monkey and the cap seller approach’ if you wish them to develop a reading habit. Pick up a book in front of them and they will imitate you. Parents often spend their free time surfing internet or scrolling through their mobile phones and then wonder who taught their children to do the same. Put away your mobile phones after dinner time and instead sit with your children with a book in hand and see the difference. “All people are the same, only their habits differ,” the wise man, Confucius had rightly said. Do not foist your choice: Do not force your child to read what you want, let him read what he wants. Often parents complain, “I want my child to read motivational books or biographies of great men but he prefers to read science fiction or comics.” My humble suggestion to such parents is: don’t make choices for your child. Men become great by making independent choices and not by following blindly. The world does not need reason alone. Let there be some place for imagination too for it is Einstein who said, “Logic will get you from A to B. Imagination will take you everywhere.” sonrok15@gmail.com||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/guest-column-make-your-child-fall-in-love-with-books-101639865053426.html
19-12-2021||Chandigarh||Tricity Buzz: Charuni faces tough questions from media||Chaduni faces tough questions from media When Haryana Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) leader Gurnam Singh Charuni launched his political party, the Sanyukt Sangharsh Party, in Chandigarh on Saturday and announced his decision to contest the Punjab assembly elections, he was subjected to some tough questions from mediapersons. One of the members of his party present at the press conference had to face backlash from the journalists when she referred to them as “Godi media”, a pejorative term for a sensationalist and biased media. When the party member didn’t stop, the mediapersons objected and she had to apologise. Chandigarh MC poll: Parties in race to outdo each other With the race for the Municipal Corporation of Chandigarh in its final leg, all parties are desperate to outdo each other. If one of them decides to organise a press conference, the others follow suit at the same time. When the Congress called a press conference to announce the “chargesheet” against the BJP rule in town, the saffron party held a press conference to announce its achievements. “It’s about grabbing eyeballs and finding space in the media. Everyone is fighting for the same space. It’s a zero sum game, one’s gain is another’s loss,” said a local Aam Aadm Party leader. Blame game boomerangs on former Congress leaders Former UT Congress leaders Pardeep Chhabra and Chandermukhi Sharma tore into the party’s performance when it was at the helm in the municipal corporation. The next day, an English daily published a report with their photo on its front page, giving vent to their criticism of the party they once represented. A few days later while interacting with the media, a senior Congress leader and associate of Chhabra and Sharma said, “I’ll get this report and photo framed. The period for which they are criticising the Congress was in fact when they were the main representatives at the MC’s helm. It means they are now blaming themselves for inefficiency. B-Team of Congress or B-Team of BJP? The Aam Aadmi Party is fighting its first civic election in Chandigarh and taking on two formidable rivals in the Congress and the BJP. Incidentally, both rivals claim that the AAP is the B-Team of the other. BJP leaders say that the AAP is the “B-Team” of the Congress since 20 of the 35 candidates fighting the election are former Congress workers. The Congress in turn claims that the AAP is the “B-Team” of the BJP as it is expected to make a dent into the Congress’ share of anti-incumbency votes against the six-year rule of the BJP. Brazen theft: Locked for two hours, Zirakpur house burgled In a brazen burglary, a house in Royal Estate Society of Zirakpur was burgled when the owner was away for less than two hours on December 14 morning. Owner Ashish Chadha said his family left at 9.40am and was back at 11.30am only to find door locks broken and the house ransacked. A shocked Chadha lost ₹35,000 and ornaments worth ₹2 lakh in just two hours. Controlling crime: Cop gets praise, predecessor warning Amid rising incidents of drug smuggling and illegal sale of liquor, senior Chandigarh Police officials have asked station house officers (SHOs) to pull up their socks. At a recent crime review meeting, an SHO won praise from his senior colleagues for cracking down on the supply of drugs, gambling and liquor in a colony under his jurisdiction. At the same time, his predecessor was issued a warning for giving a free hand to those involved in these illegal activities. Temporary rotaries in city of roundabouts Two temporary rotaries have been set up by the Chandigarh Traffic Police to avoid congestion and accidents. The mini circles have been come up in Industrial Area and Sector 17, while more will be installed at busy intersections in the coming days, it is learnt. The aim is to ease commuting between sectors and facilitate smooth flow of traffic. This is a temporary measure till small permanent rotaries are built. PU Senate hasn’t met in two years It’s been two years since the Panjab University (PU) senate, the varsity’s apex governing body, last met on December 14, 2019. Being the apex governing body, all matters concerning the university are taken up by the senate for approval. Matters have been piling up in the absence of a meeting, affecting the university’s functioning, especially after the term of the syndicate also ended in December last year. Though the senate elections were held this year, a gazette notification of the elected members is awaited. Inputs by Hillary Victor, Munieshwer A Sagar, Shailee Dogra, Tanbir Dhaliwal, Rajanbir Singh and Dar Ovais)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/tricity-buzz-charuni-faces-tough-questions-from-media-101639864993483.html
19-12-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh MC polls: Crusaders of the war room||Congress hopes for a comebackAfter three successive elections losses since 2014, the Chandigarh Congress is hoping to make a comeback in a city, once considered to be its stronghold. Seven years ago, having majority in the MC house, the Congress lost the mayoral election to the BJP. Later in the 2016 MC polls, it suffered a major drubbing, securing only four seats while the BJP alliance won 21 seats.The grand old party is banking on the anti-incumbency factor and city’s slipping Swachh Survekshan rankings for a return to power. Inflation, “high” tax burden on city residents, “poor” development record of BJP, and the MC’s financial crunch are other major issues the Congress is counting on this election. The entry of the AAP, in a traditionally two-pronged battle, has particularly disturbed the party’s election strategy. In many wards, both the parties are vying for the same anti-BJP votes. Unlike BJP and AAP, which are spending heavily on advertisements, the party is focusing more on individual contacts with voters and social media. POWER CENTREPawan Kumar Bansal, national party treasurerFour-time member of parliament from Chandigarh and the party’s power centre in the city, Bansal is dictating the party’s overall election strategy –the key election issues, party’s response to rival parties’ tactics, and overall management of party affairs during the election. The former union railway minister also played a key role in the selection of candidates. Being the party’s most recognisable face, Bansal is also actively participating in door-to-door campaignS and public rallies.THE TROUBLESHOOTERRajinder Rana, coordinator, MC electionsThe MLA from Himachal Pradesh, Rajinder Rana is mobilising the party workers, bringing in additional campaign hands from Himachal Pradesh and Delhi to prop the party’s campaign. Rana, appointed as the coordinator for Chandigarh election by the Congress high command, is the party’s crisis manager-in-chief, dousing rebellions within the party and also pulling in crucial leaders from rival parties. Rana is actively working on bringing in the crucial Himachali voters to the party’s side. Rana is also holding public meetings in wards in support of the party candidates. STRATEGISTSubhash Chawla, Congress state presidentA seasoned city politician and former mayor, Subhash Chawla, who took over as the party’s city president only nine months ago, is at the centre of the party’s strategy making. He is coordinating and managing all different cells of the party. Chawla is also responsible for ensuring that candidates’ field requirements are met. He decides the party’s star campaigners’ meeting schedule and places they are to be best utilised. PUBLICISTAbhishek Dutt, coordinatorNational spokesperson Abhishek Dutt is looking after the media and communication strategy of the party in the municipal corporation elections. The councillor from South Delhi municipal corporation, Dutt is managing the crucial social media campaign and the advertisement messaging of the party.AAP’s debut on MC battleground The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) had made its election debut in the city in the 2014 Lok Sabha election when its candidate Gul Panag secured nearly 23.97% of the total votes polled, and was in close contest with the runner up, veteran Congress leader Pawan Kumar Bansal who had polled 26.84% votes. But thereafter, the party lost major ground in the city’s with its cadres fragmenting and residents’ interest fading. Result, it got a thrashing in the 2019 Lok Sabha election, with its candidate former MP Harmohan Dhawan managing only 3.9% of the total votes polled. THE ANCHOR Jarnail Singh, Chandigarh state in-charge With the party banking heavily on the “Delhi Model” for winning elections in Chandigarh, the Delhi MLA is the direct link between the party’s national leadership, including Arvind Kejriwal, and the local leadership. Singh is directly involved in the party’s campaign, candidates’ selection and making the Delhi Model a cornerstone of the party’s election strategy. A good communicator, Singh takes centrestage in party’s attempts at positive public perception management. THE ORGANISER Prem Garg, AAP’s Chandigarh unit president A charted accountant by profession, AAP’s local president Prem Garg has been mobilising party workers involved in boardroom planning, besides looking into the party’s finances. He has been associated with the party ever since it was formed in 2012. He is the face of the party, building links with different citizens’ groups like residents’ welfare associations, non-government organisations and professional groups, and administration and the election commission. THE MASS MOBILISER Pardeep Chhabra, co-incharge Chhabra joined the AAP only around four months ago but has come to dominate the party’s political direction in the city. He has played a key role in the selection of candidates. Chhabra’s unceremonious exit from the Congress brought along a major swell in AAP’s grassroot-level workers’ strength. Chhabra, a former city mayor and former Congress president, has a strong network in the city and is actively mobilising support for the party’s candidates. THE STRATEGIST Chander Mukhi Sharma, campaign chairman Acknowledged even by his opponent as a shrewd election strategist, Sharma is shaping the party’s election strategy even at the micro-level. Sharma played a key role in the party’s manifesto formation – bringing in local flavour to the “Delhi Model” based freebies after he ran a survey on “what city residents want from parties”. He is the main proponent of the party’s “alternative revenue generation model” thrust. Contesting from Ward 13, Sharma is also assisting other candidates in their feedback loop with voters and adapting their campaign as per voters’ needs. BJP fighting anti-incumbency The ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) is gunning to better its performance from the last MC polls wherein its alliance secured 21 out of 26 seats. “Development” works and its “achievements” in the last five years are the cornerstone of its election strategy. The party has listed more than 50 such achievements and it is the key message the party is aggressively putting across different media platforms and door-to-door campaigns. Known for its cadre strength, the party is facing a stiff challenge from more than a dozen rebel candidates as it tries to surmount once again the endemic party factionalism before the poll day. There is also the issue of six-year long accumulating anti-incumbency factor. Issues like consistent poor show by Chandigarh under the Swachh Survekshan rankings is also a major challenge for the party. A three-cornered fight between Congress, BJP and AAP makes its attempt at a win that much more complex and harder. ALL IN ONEArun Sood, state president The driving force of the BJP’s move to retain power, the city party chief Arun Sood is having a hands-on approach in the party’s election campaign. Sood is involved in the day-to-day management of campaign, coordinating with different party cells and deciding the daily tactics of candidates’ campaign. Sood is also a key player in party’s overall media and election campaign strategies. Selection of candidates, preparation of manifesto and responding to rival parties also comes under the party president’s role. CRISIS MANAGER Sanjay Tandon, former state president Tandon, who served as the city chief for 10 years, is putting his knowledge and experience of the party’s grassroots-level to mobilise the party workers. He chairs multiple party meetings every day to ensure that the party ranks give their all as the poll day comes nearer. Tandon is an integral part of the party think-tank on various issues from campaign strategy to management. He also acts as crisis-manager, persuading rebel candidates to come back into the party fold. LINK TO DELHI Vinod Tawde, party’s national general secretary and election in-charge The main link between the city unit and the party’s national leadership, Tawde is the overall in-charge of the party election campaign. He is also keeping all the factions of the party in-line, ensuring that they all work unison for party’s victory. He plays a key role in streamlining interventions from outside--central leaders, leaders from other states, and makes changes in campaigns, based on the intelligence and survey inputs. IN-HOUSE COMMUNICATORSaudan Singh, national vice-president In-charge of Punjab, Haryana, Chandigarh and Himachal Pradesh, Saudan Singh is devising the party’s strategy and tactics for winning the election. He is actively involved in imparting these strategies to party workers, from top to bottom. Singh’s work centres around organisation and workers. He also had the final say in the selection of candidates. The party’s overall vision and the central leadership’s directions are also communicated to the party worker in the city unit through him.
19-12-2021||Chandigarh||Random forays | The three cardinal ‘Ws’ for health, happiness||In olden days, younger men were often told to avoid chasing the three ‘Ws’ — wine, women and wealth. This saying unfortunately and disparagingly also brackets the fairer and more evolved half of our species with materialistic pursuits. Nonetheless, the message to aspiring achievers was clear: work was the only ‘W’ to worship and one had to forget the rest. While the divine jury is still out on whether mankind as a whole has been able to follow the said dictum, it is time to focus on three other ‘Ws’, without which we cannot hope to live healthy and happy lives: walking, water and wellness. Wellness is of course a term that has permeated our very consciousness. From emotional wellness to physical, mental and spiritual wellness, there are many forms in which the word is applied. It is no surprise then that wellness coaches are doing pretty well these days, and the wellness economy is cruising in boom times as well!However, if we take wellness seriously and apply it assiduously to our own existence, it can envelope us with a true sense of wellbeing. Thus, by focussing sensibly on our diet, our exercise and mental hygiene, we can pretty much ensure that we are living towards the top of the health pyramid, if not at its very pinnacle. Wellness in my personal viewpoint should necessarily also include regular yoga, meditation and detoxification of the mind from the vitriol that our berserk social media keeps spewing at it.Wellness should also cover the charming act of reading books, being surrounded by music in some manner and also a vigorous outdoor sport. The pursuit of wellness might even include keeping good company and engaging in uplifting conversations.I have separated water and the act of walking from the world of wellness as these two stand out as essentials without which our health may just go for a toss. Bollywood legend, Rekha, when asked the secret to her youthfulness, said inner peace and drinking lots of water were the keys. In fact, doctors have recently been advising dengue patients and those suffering from a plethora of ailments to simply “rest a lot and drink a lot” (water, of course). Around 10 to 12 glasses of water a day are essential, even if the weather is cool and we do not feel thirsty. Walking is the third, but equally important W. Without keeping our legs busy and the circulation going, we will be like sedentary sloths. The modern man, with a multitude of gadgets at his disposal, has obviated the need to walk for most necessities, making it imperative that we make the considered choice to walk every day. By avoiding lifts, escalators and walkalators et al when possible, we can do ourselves a big favour. Even if that elusive target of 10,000 steps rarely seems attainable, we must walk as much as we can each day. I shall take the liberty of adding another W. Having a ‘worry-free nature’ is an amazing plus point in our lives. Worries are like brakes, said the saint. They unnecessarily throttle our quest to press the accelerator and gain momentum in our lives. Acquiring wisdom, that rather ungetatable rarity, is worth our while as well. To be truly wise is to choose happiness and calmness over the dizzying tizzies that tend to overtake our minds. Easy to write, difficult to implement? Indeed.At a relatively uncomplicated level, we must wisely choose silence over speech when we should. As the old sage put it, “A smart person knows what to say, a wise person knows whether to say it or not!”Be that as we may, most human beings do try to follow some sort of regularity and structure in their quest for leading healthful and joyful lives. Nobody on this planet is perfect, or we would not be here! Thus, with all kinds of Ws to choose from, we must do our best, and leave the rest, to the one who matters the most.vivek.atray@gmail.com||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/random-forays-the-three-cardinal-ws-for-health-happiness-101639864633353.html
19-12-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: 35-year-old woman succumbs to Covid, tricity logs 26 more cases||A 35-year-old woman from Bapudham Colony became the latest Covid fatality of the tricity, even as 26 new infections surfaced on Saturday.The woman was admitted as a case of bilateral pneumonitis at Government Multi Specialty Hospital, Sector 16, where she breathed her last. The UT had last seen a Covid death on October 5.Of the fresh cases, 17 were reported from Chandigarh, five from Mohali and four from Panchkula.For the past 14 days, the tricity has been consistently reporting cases in double digits. The tricity’s active case count now stands at 172, of which 85 patients are in Chandigarh, 55 in Mohali and 32 in Panchkula.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-35-year-old-woman-succumbs-to-covid-tricity-logs-26-more-cases-101639864393292.html
19-12-2021||Chandigarh||Roundabout | To see or not to see Mandu: Was that the question?||It happens sometimes that the Bard of Avon, whom one had to learn by heart in senior school and college, returns at some uncanny moment as of now. Tonight as I click at the typewriter, sorry I meant the keyboard, when I sit with both the copies of Swadesh’s book placed on the desk in front of me, Mian Shakespeare makes a visitation with his most famous line from Hamlet: To be or not to be. Critics, whom the bard has kept busy for hundreds of years, say that this line from his soliloquy is which talks of life and death in deep existentialist thought.But now ask me how does Mandu the love-nest of the ill-fated lovers, Rani Roopmati and Baaz Bahadur, figure in this theory of existential brooding? Well for one, Mandu seems to be visiting me often in my column as I grow older. It is not my doing but that of writers who seem to be obsessed with it. Just last month it was Priyadarshi Thakur acting scribe to the Rani and now it is Swadesh’s forgotten rendezvous with a woman of letters who had not seen Mandu and that’s how this ‘Fractured Soul-Memoir’ got this mysterious name.Writer with a differenceBefore moving onto this amazing account by a writer who made a place for himself in the world of Hindi fiction in the times of all-time greats like Nirmal Verma , Krishna Sobti and many others. Not just that, he was cherished by his seniors and equals for venturing into the disturbed areas of life with rare courage and returning each time with a seething story a reader would. A very popular and elegant professor of English in GMN College, Ambala Cantt, adept in teaching romantic poetry of Shelley and Keats, his manner in encountering his own stories was very different. It was often said of this fiction writer and dramatist that he hunted his characters with a gun.An author of 15 published books, including stories and novels and greatly successful plays like ‘Court Martial’, ‘Kaal Kothri’ and ‘Sabse Udaas Kavita’, this writer with aristocratic good looks and demeanour, found great adulation. In fact, his was the fan following which had hitherto been reserved for poets a la Majaz or Sahir Ludhianvi. When his first book of stories Ashwarohi came out in 1973, he got letters signed in blood from his female readers for the title story which looked through the eyes of a girl at a sensitive and handsome young man who was insane to others. Picking out the extraordinary in the most mundane of situations was his special talent and he was at equal ease in dealing with characters drawn from the aristocracy or the urban slums. This so because it was the human psyche he explored with great finesse.Lunatic, lover and poetHowever, in the early 90s he had a mental breakdown with a recurrence of suicidal attempts. The memoirs are set in the wards of the specialty hospital. He had battled illness and came out and at the suggestions of writer friends, who thought he would overcome the destructive phase of life thus, started penning the seven-year journey from insanity to sanity. Thus, Mandu was born and the trigger that pressed it was a fair woman asking him to accompany him to Mandu. It was rejection of this proposition that led to the delusion of the woman haunting him and as a professor of literature he knew well that ‘hell hath no fury like a woman scorned’.Between the hallucinatory visions of the Mayavani are the snippets of scenes from the days of agony in the hospital ranging from the demeaning to the reassuring. His young son, Sukant, holding his hand, a senior writer, Varinder Mendiratta, visiting him and feeding him apple stew, a family friend, Renu, leaving some money under his pillow and many more. A dark humour also underlines the musings of the patient. By the end of the book even the Mayavani, perhaps the Maya Memsahib of past life is forgiven in a poetic realisation. Standing in front of the haunted man she asks, “Swadesh, was it my fault?Fleeing the nestI glance again at the two books kept on my desk. The eyes of women in white veils peep out of a painting by Jehangir Sabavala on the cover of the Hindi original. From the cover of the English translation peeps a dimmed version of a classic photograph of the author, clicked by his friend Soumitra Mohan, stares at you. Swadesh says about these memoirs: “I Have Not Seen Mandu’ is not a history of the external world. Nor is it a paper written for a medical journal. It is a soul-memoir, a fractured one.”Pinto says of this book: “ I hate it when people talk about instant classics but I have not read anything like this, so completely naked, so dependent on the kindness of others, so raw”. Like Jerry everyone feels that the book should have had a happy ending but that was not to be. The waves of depression lashed on. On June 2, 2006, he left home early in the morning to be with the lost ones. Ask Sukant and he will say: ‘Papa is Elsewhere…’ The readers of Swadesh thank Ravi Singh of the Speaking Tiger for the book and wait for the plays and stories that are to follow because the best place to find the writer is in his writings. nirudutt@gmail.com||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/roundabout-to-see-or-not-to-see-mandu-was-that-the-question-101639864273302.html
19-12-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh shivers as maximum temperature slide continues||Residents continued to shiver as the city’s maximum temperature dipped further on Saturday, settling at 15°C, from Friday’s 15.3°C. As per the India Meteorological Department (IMD), the maximum temperature was six degrees below normal, making Saturday the second consecutive ‘cold day’ as per the IMD. A cold day is declared when the minimum temperature goes below 10°C and maximum temperature falls to 4.5-6.4°C below normal.As per IMD officials, the maximum temperature is likely to rise in the coming days while minimum temperature may fall by two to three degrees leading to cold wave conditions. A cold wave is declared when the minimum temperature is 10°C or below and/or is 4.5 notches lesser than the season’s normal for two consecutive days. Cold wave is also declared when the minimum temperature is less than 4°C in our region.The minimum temperature rose from 5.6°C s on Friday to 6.1°C on Saturday. Due to dense fog, the minimum temperature is unable to fall further as per the weathermen. Two western disturbances are likely to come one after the other in the coming week. The first western disturbance will affect the city between December 22 and December 23 while the second will affect the city between December 24 and December 25. It is expected that this will increase the temperature in the region and also bring light to moderate rain.Visibility was also affected in the city due to dense fog. At 8:30 am on Saturday, visibility was down to 200 metres in the city. This was a slight improvement over Friday when it had gone down to just 50 metres while chances of dense fog will continue on Sunday and Monday as well, especially in the early morning hours.Air Quality very poorAfter going past 300 on Friday, the Air Quality Index (AQI) at the Continuous Ambient Air Quality Monitoring Station (CAAQMS) in Sector 22 remained over 300 for most of Saturday. At 7:00 pm it was recorded as 306, taking the average of the past 24 hours. Between 300 and 400, AQI is regarded as very poor and can cause respiratory illnesses on prolonged exposure.While the rise in AQI is due to weather related reasons, with two western disturbances approaching the region, it is expected that AQI will significantly fall down after rainfall.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-shivers-as-maximum-temperature-slide-continues-101639864033258.html
19-12-2021||Chandigarh||22-year-old model raped in Zirakpur, friend booked||A 22-year-old model from Jalandhar was allegedly raped by one of her friends in a Zirakpur hotel where she had gone to reach a compromise in an old case of harassment, police said on Saturday. The victim told the police that the accused had called her on December 12 to settle an old complaint she had lodged against him and took her to the hotel where a room was already booked. The victim has already filed a case of sexual harassment against the accused, which is pending in a court. She also claimed that the accused had been mounting pressure on her to withdraw the old complaint. She named another person, who she said had threatened to kill her if she didn’t reach a compromise. The police registered a fresh case under Section 376 of the IPC after medical examination of the victim confirmed rape.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/22yearold-model-raped-in-zirakpur-friend-booked-101639863433230.html
19-12-2021||Chandigarh||Anurag, Kejriwal in Chandigarh today||Union minister for information and broadcasting Anurag Thakur and Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal will be in the city to campaign for their respective parties ahead of the Chandigarh municipal corporations elections. Kejriwal, will address a public meeting at Dussehra Ground in Sector 43. to seek votes for party candidates. He will be accompanied by Bhagwant Mann, party in-charge, Punjab; Jarnail Singh, in-charge, Chandigarh affairs; and Punjab leader of opposition Harpal Singh Cheema.Anurag Thakur was to visit the city on December 10 but cancelled it following the tragic helicopter crash on December 8 in which CDS Bipin Rawat, his wife and 12 other armed forces personnel were died.Shivender Mandotra, convenor, Himachal Cell, BJP, while revealing the information, said a Himachali Dham is being organised at Rally Ground, Sector 25, where Thakur will grace the occasion in the evening. Noted Himachali folk singer Karnail Rana will regale the audience and a dance troupe from Himachal will be performing a series of nattis.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/anurag-kejriwal-in-chandigarh-today-101639863373319.html
19-12-2021||Chandigarh||Congress will stop dumping waste at Dadumajra site, says Bansal||The Congress will stop dumping of garbage at Dadumajra within six months, if voted to power in the municipal corporation (MC), All-India Congress Committee treasurer and former Union minister Pawan Kumar Bansal said while holding a press conference at the dump site on Saturday.Flanked by the party’s national general secretary Randeep Singh Surjewala and other leaders, Bansal said, “We will look into alternative ways by setting up a new plant following the right process and disposal of garbage in a scientific way.”“In the past six years, the Bharatiya Janata Party-led MC has turned the life of around two lakh people residing near the ground into a mess by dumping garbage here without proper management,” said Bansal.“During the Congress’ time, MC had dumped loose soil at the dumping ground, resulting in growing of grass there. Those were days when children and even international cricketers, including Yuvraj Singh and Dinesh Mongia, used to play there. But ironically, the ground now has eagles and crows hovering over it,” said Surjewala.He said, “India’s City Beautiful, carved out of the vision and dreams of Pt. Jawaharlal Nehru, has been converted into a garbage mountain of the city by Modi and BJP government.”“The only bigger garbage mountain of the height of Taj Mahal (73 metres) is in the Kejriwal government-run Delhi,” said Surjewala.Bansal said, “BJP-ruled MC has neither conducted an inquiry into the affairs of the private company responsible for running the solid waste processing plant nor has it imposed a single rupee as penalty on this company. Collusion & corruption is, thus, writ large, he maintained.”EC serves notice on CongThe election commission served a show-cause notice on the Congress for organising a political campaign without permission. The party has been asked to give a reply in a day, said Pradhuman Singh, returning officer.Protest at the siteParallel to the Congress press conference, a protest against the party was held at the site. While the protesting group claimed to be local residents, the Congress alleged they were BJP workers. Heated arguments and a minor altercation also ensued on the press conference sidelines between the group and Congress workers, though police intervened immediately and broke up the two groups. BJP state president Arun Sood, said, “It was not a BJP protest, but it was common residents of the Dadumajra who were venting their anger against the Congress. The garbage dump is because of Congress, and most of it is before the BJP’s rule. Now, they have to face people’s anger for their misdeeds.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/congress-will-stop-dumping-waste-at-dadumajra-site-says-bansal-101639862413040.html
19-12-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: ‘Biscuit’ man arrested for robbing people after sedating them||A 54-year-old man, who used to allegedly rob people by offering them biscuits laced with intoxicants, has been nabbed from the inter-state bus terminus in Sector 17, Chandigarh. As per the police, he has been active for over a decade and has targeted at least 100 people using the same modus operandi. He used to tell the victims that the biscuits were prashad from Vaishno Devi, to win over their confidence. The accused has been identified as Krishan Lal, 54, a native of Jammu. He was nabbed after an auto-rickshaw driver approached the police after being robbed in a similar fashion. Complainant, Sagar, 23, told the police that on the night of December 17, he had picked up a male passenger from the Sector 43 bus stand and dropped him off at the bus stand in Sector 17. The passenger offered him a biscuit. After eating it, he fell unconscious. The next morning when he woke up, he realised his purse, which was carrying about ₹3,500 and some important documents, was missing.Following his complaint, the UT police nabbed the accused from the gates of the Sector 17 bus stand on the basis of a tip-off. Police found a strip of Lorazepam tablets and seven packets of Bonn Biscuits in his possession. They have also recovered a stolen mobile phone, a purse and ₹1,500 from him.A case under Section 328 (causing hurt by means of poison) and Section 379 (punishment for theft) of the Indian Penal Code has been registered against the accused. He will be produced in the court on Sunday.How he won over the confidence of his victimsDuring preliminary probe, the accused told the police that he used to grind the Lorazepam tablets and mix it in the biscuits. He used to stack the biscuits in such a manner that the odd-numbered biscuits were clean while the even-numbered ones were laced with sedatives. He would consume one himself and then offer to his victims, so they don’t suspect something fishy. He used to target people mainly from UP, Bihar and Jammu, telling them that the biscuits were prashad from Vaishno Devi. The accused specifically targeted inter-state passengers, who boarded buses from different bus stands in Delhi and Chandigarh. Superintendent of police, Ketan Bansal said, “Krishan has been active for the last 10 years at ISBT-17 and confessed that he had committed the crime near about 100 times.” How he got the ideaInvestigations pointed out that Krishan started robbing people after he was robbed in similar manner in Ludhiana. “After being robbed, he tracked the accused and trapped him. But instead of informing the police, he learnt the tricks of trade from the accused and started targeting people to make easy money,” said Om Prakash, station house officer, Sector 17, Chandigarh. So far, he was arrested only once in a case in Sirhind. SHO Om Prakash added, “The accused keeps shuttling between Delhi and Chandigarh to avoid being caught. We have shared information with Delhi police to get details of cases against him.” Has 3 wivesA native of Jammu, he reportedly has three wives—one stays in Jammu, the second is in Punjab while the third is in Meghalaya. 
19-12-2021||Chandigarh||Jammu and Kashmir sees 151 Covid infections, one death; highest cases in Srinagar||Jammu and Kashmir reported a death and 151 fresh Covid-19 infections on Saturday, an official health bulletin said. Of the total cases, 109 cases were reported in Kashmir valley and while the Jammu division saw 42 infections and a death.The union territory reported highest 55 cases in summer capital Srinagar followed by 17 cases each in Baramulla and Jammu. As many as 15 districts saw single digit or zero cases.Srinagar district has the highest number of active cases at 531 followed by Jammu and Baramulla districts with 214 and 189 active cases respectively.The number of patients who were cured in the UT was 140 with active positive cases reaching 1,458.The government’s daily health bulletin also said that 53,799 vaccine doses were administered taking overall doses administered in the UT to 1.756 crores.The overall number of people who have recovered reached 3,33,722 prompting the recovery rate to reach 98.24%. Since the pandemic started, the overall cases in J&K have reached 3,39,691 and the death-toll has reached 4,511.The officials said that 57,069 tests were conducted in the past 24 hours in the UT.The Jammu district has the highest number of 1,154 fatalities followed by Srinagar with 879 deaths.Covid trackerTotal cases: 3,39,691Total recovered patients: 3,33,722Total Deaths: 4,511Active cases: 1,458||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/jammu-and-kashmir-sees-151-covid-infections-one-death-highest-cases-in-srinagar-101639860980221.html
19-12-2021||Chandigarh||Rape convict Jammu and Kashmir sub-judge dismissed from service||The J&K government dismissed from service suspended sub-judge Rajesh Kumar Abrol on Friday. On October 23, the judge was convicted and sentenced to 10 years in jail for raping and cheating a woman petitioner, who had appeared in his court in 2018 to seek justice in case of a matrimonial dispute. “The lieutenant governor is pleased to accord sanction to the dismissal of the services of Rajesh Kumar Abrol as civil judge (senior division) sub-judge (under suspension) with effect from October 21, 2021,” read an order issued by secretary, law, Achal Sethi. The government invoked Article 311 of the Constitution following recommendations of the full court of the high court of Jammu and Kashmir and Ladakh. On October 21, a fast-track court had convicted Abrol in Jammu for rape and cheating a woman who had sought legal help from him in 2018. “The conclusion that emerges from the discussion is that all the evidence on record unerringly points toward the guilt of the accused,” Khalil Choudhary, presiding officer of the fast-track court, Jammu, had observed in his judgment. The court had observed that all the evidence on record unerringly point toward the guilt of the accused. The court observed: “Persons of influence, keeping in view their reach, impact and authority they wield on the general public or the specific class to which they belong owe a duty and have to be more responsible they are expected to know and perceive the meaning of authority and law with experience and knowledge. It is reasonable to hold that they would be careful in their lives the reasonable man’s test would always be taken into consideration.” The victim woman was a resident of Ramban and met Abrol of Lower Roop Nagar, Jammu, while she was contesting a case. Being a judicial officer, Abrol promised legal help and sought domestic support from her. Having a minor girl to support, the woman started working in the house of the sub-judge, who also promised better education to her daughter. The accused promised her to pay ₹5,000 per month as salary. For seeking legal support, the accused dissolved her marriage with her husband by getting a divorce deed which was notarised and the accused told one of his PSOs to be the witness to it, the prosecution said. But the woman’s parents wanted her back with them. When Abrol got to know this, he filled her “maang” with “babuti” and told her that she was his wife now. “By doing so, the accused secured her consent to have sexual intercourse with her. She succumbed to his pressure and did not share the same with anyone around,” the prosecution had submitted then. As per the prosecution, after one year, the woman came to know that he had betrayed her by marrying her while being married to his second wife as he had already divorced his first wife. 
19-12-2021||Chandigarh||Srinagar records season’s coldest night, Leh shivers at -17°C; snow in higher reaches of Kashmir||Srinagar on Saturday witnessed the season’s coldest night with the temperature dropping to - 6 °C.The drop in the night temperature by several notches was recorded across Kashmir. The cold has left water bodies in the upper reaches frozen.The MeT department had already predicted intense winter and a drop in the temperature following light snowfall in the upper reaches. On Thursday, the higher reaches of Kashmir received light snowfall.The ski resort of Gulmarg recorded - 8.5°C while two days ago, the mercury plunged to - 10 °C.The Jammu and Kashmir MeT department said the nights continued to record sub-zero temperatures in Kashmir for the 13th day.Srinagar recorded a minimum temperature of -6 °C. Last week, the temperature dipped to as low as - 3.6 °C. In south Kashmir, the mountain resort of Pahalgam recorded a night temperature of -8.3°C. It was -7°C in Konibal, - 6.1°C in Kupwara, and -6°C in Qazigund.In the union territory of Ladakh, Dras recorded bone-chilling -19.1°C while it was – 17°C in Leh during the night.The harsh 40-day winter period of the Kashmir valley — Chillai Kalan — starts from December 21.There is a forecast of snowfall on Christmas eve.The MeT office said widespread moderate-to-heavy snowfall is most likely during December 23 and 25.Kashmir’s winter pans out in three stages starting with a 40-day intense period from December 21 (locally called Chillai Kalan) followed by 20 more days which are less intense (Chillai Khurd) and then 10 days of mild cold (Chille Bache).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/srinagar-records-season-s-coldest-night-leh-shivers-at-17-c-snow-in-higher-reaches-of-kashmir-101639860978010.html
19-12-2021||Chandigarh||Delimitation commission is BJP’s panel; no faith in it: Mehbooba Mufti||President of the People’s Democratic Party (PDP) and former chief minister Mehbooba Mufti on Saturday said that “delimitation commission is BJP’s commission” and that “we have no faith in it”. The panel mandated to redraw the Lok Sabha and assembly constituencies of Jammu and Kashmir are scheduled to convene its second meeting with the associate members at Delhi on December 20. Mehbooba also asked the youth to join the struggle for the restoration of their rights “snatched” by the BJP government via non-violent means and not with stones and guns. Responding to media queries at Rajouri, the PDP president said, “As far as the delimitation commission is concerned, it is BJP’s commission and it will try to redraw boundaries in a way to disempower the people and create a rift between the majority and minority communities. It will increase seats in a way that could help the BJP. Therefore, we have no faith in it.” On change brought in land use in J&K, she described it a bad move, which “smacked of conspiracy to bring a demographic change in the Muslim majority region”. “The new law is very bad. It is another conspiracy and part of a hidden agenda. The land use title has been changed because they want that more people from outside to buy land in J&K and bring a demographic change,” she said. “We had a law --land to the tiller but they want to weaken it further and they want to bring a change in population ratio between majority and minority,” she added. On the arrest of PDP leaders and summons by the NIA, she attributed it to the politics of the PDP, which has raised its voice against the BJP narrative. “This is because PDP raises the voice against the BJP’s narrative. We debunk their claims of normalcy in J&K and, therefore, they use the ED and the NIA, but we won’t give up. Politically they can’t fight us and that is why they use ED and NIA,” she said. Earlier, at the rally, she called on the youth to join the struggle for restoration of their rights “snatched” by the Centre and said non-violence, not “stones or guns”, was the way ahead. 
19-12-2021||Chandigarh||Jammu and Kashmir lieutenant governor takes ride in e-bus from Raj Bhawan to Trikuta Nagar||Lieutenant governor Manoj Sinha Saturday took a ride in Olectra Greentech’s electric bus from Raj Bhawan to Trikuta Nagar here. Arun Kumar, AGM, sales and marketing, Olectra Greentech Ltd, briefed the L-G about the functioning, features and technical aspects of the bus during the ride. He apprised the LG that it is a seven-meter Olectra K6 electric bus that has a seating capacity of 24 plus driver and a single charge range of 160 km with 80% status of the charge. The AGM apprised the LG that the bus has many other modern features like GPS, public announcement system, air conditioner, smart ticketing, 2 USB ports per seat, emergency stop, etc. Sinha suggested the representatives of the company to keep proper luggage space to facilitate the passengers during their journey. He said the J&K government was committed to providing quality transport facilities to the public in the UT, adding that the unprecedented augmentation of the public transport system will boost revenue generation as more viable and lucrative routes will be included in the operational network of transportation. The electric bus will be on trial run on different inter-city and intra-city routes to access its technical, mechanical stability and other practical aspects. Sinha had asked the company to send two electric buses on a trial basis, one each for Srinagar and Jammu. L-G inaugurates JMC’s ‘Adopt-A-Park’ programme Lieutenant governor Manoj Sinha on Saturday inaugurated the ‘Adopt-A-Park’ programme of the Jammu Municipal Corporation (JMC), which will provide an opportunity to local communities, welfare associations and other organisations to contribute to the upkeep and clean-up of neighbourhood parks. As many as 17 public parks have already been adopted by aware and responsible citizens at different places of Jammu city, under the initiative. While speaking at the event organised at Trikuta Nagar, Sinha called upon Individuals, businesses and other organisations to adopt a park and make a difference in their neighbourhood. He said that people’s participation, community support are required to establish beautiful and well-maintained parks, clean and free of litter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/jammu-and-kashmir-lieutenant-governor-takes-ride-in-e-bus-from-raj-bhawan-to-trikuta-nagar-101639860973004.html
19-12-2021||Chandigarh||Dharamshala: Army most disciplined force, says RSS chief Mohan Bhagwat||Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) chief Mohan Bhagwat on Saturday described the Army as the bravest and most disciplined force in the world.He was addressing a seminar of ex-servicemen at Dharamshala College Auditorium. Bhagwat, who is on a five-day tour to Kangra, said whatever the situation may be, the Indian soldier fights with valour.The RSS chief said ex-servicemen do not need enlightenment and thus he will talk only about the Sangh.“The RSS is inspired by the Ex-Servicemen Service Council,” he said, adding that the last four lines of the Sangh’s prayer give introduction of this organisation.Speaking about the 1857 rebellion, Bhagwat said it was the first war for Independence. “We failed for the spark did not die,” he said.On the Indian culture, the RSS chief said that there may be diversity, language may be different but the sentiments remain the same.“We call nature our mother. Our tendency is to give more than we take,” he said.He stressed that one should live for himself, not for vested interests.Earlier, Bhagwat and attendees in the seminar observed a two-minute silence as a mark of respect to former Chief of Defense Staff (CDS) General Bipin Rawat and others who were killed in a chopper crash on December 8.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/dharamshala-army-most-disciplined-force-says-rss-chief-mohan-bhagwat-101639860919893.html
19-12-2021||Chandigarh||Shimla: Jai Ram Thakur gives call to save Himalayan glaciers||Chief minister Jai Ram Thakur on Saturday stressed the need to think of the impact of climate-related risks and vulnerabilities for the next generations while giving a call to save Himalayan glaciers.He was presiding over the inaugural session of a two-day climate conference being organised by the state department of environment, science and technology in association with the German Development Cooperation (GIZ).Titled ‘Secure Himalaya - Safe India”: Reducing climate change-induced risks and vulnerabilities due to glacial lake outburst floods in Himalayas (GLOF)’, the conference discussed climate risks, community preparedness, the role of financial institutions and climate change action plan in the region to reduce climate-induced risks.Jai Ram said that as the human race progresses, it tends to exploit more from nature and that is quite concerning.“Glaciers are an integral part of our ecosystem and are under threat. We should be prepared to protect them else we will be putting our present and future generations at great risk. It will require a behavioural change from each one of us to bring about any shift in saving our fragile ecosystem,” he said.The chief minister said the state was focusing on strengthening irrigation facilities, increasing agricultural production, improving socio-economic conditions of the people, ensuring economic security and rural infrastructure besides taking various measures to ensure sustainable development and environment protection.He also virtually laid the foundation stone of Digital Climate Change Reference Centre, issued guidelines for knowledge network on CC and DRR and launched state action plan Part-II on climate change and CAFRI programme.In his address, German ambassador to India Walter J Lindner said climate change cannot be ignored anymore and collective efforts were needed to deal with the problem.Director, Students Educational and Cultural Movement of Ladakh, Sonam Wangchuk said the future will see many unprecedented calamities if any action is not taken now.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/shimla-jai-ram-thakur-gives-call-to-save-himalayan-glaciers-101639860916708.html
19-12-2021||Chandigarh||Azadi ka Amrit Mahotsav: Two-day fest in Chamba to make Ravi litter-free||The Chamba district administration is organising a two-day fest on December 22-23 that is aimed at making the Ravi river litter-free. Chamba deputy commissioner DC Rana said all government departments, municipality, people of adjoining panchayats and stakeholders will participate in the cleanliness campaign. The fest is being held under a series of events to celebrate Azadi ka Amrit Mahotsav, the idea of which is conservation and cleanliness of the Ravi by ensuring public participation. Rana said during the mega cleanliness drive, plastic and solid waste will be collected from identified spots on the banks of the Ravi. Plantation of maple tree will also be done during the fest. Apart from the cleaning drive, painting, slogan writing and declamation competitions will be organised for school and college students followed by an awareness rally. The winners of the competitions will be awarded on December 24. “Ravi River is lifeline and identity of Chamba and it is the collective responsibility of government and people to keep it clean,” said Rana.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/azadi-ka-amrit-mahotsav-two-day-fest-in-chamba-to-make-ravi-litterfree-101639860915278.html
19-12-2021||Chandigarh||6th Himachal Finance Commission seeks extension of term||The 6th state Finance Commission would recommend to the state to extend its term up to October 31, 2022, which otherwise ends on December 31.Finance Commission chairman Satpal Singh Satti said a decision to this effect was taken in a meeting held on Friday.Satti said the commission in its 2nd meeting held on March 26 this year had sought suggestions and comments of the panchayati raj and urban development departments on questionnaires regarding income and expenditure of the local bodies which were to be sent to the local bodies for collecting further information.After incorporating suggestions of departments concerned, questionnaires were made ready by the end of April 2021.However, during this time, the second wave of Covid-19 swept across the country and Himachal Pradesh was not untouched, said Satti.He said a statewide lockdown was imposed in the first week of May and all offices had scanty attendance which hit the official works.Work in offices resumed with full capacity of staff in June 2021. However, it has already delayed the questionnaires which could be sent to the local bodies only at the end of June, said Satti.Despite efforts to collect information from the local bodies about their income and expenditure, only 20% of municipalities have submitted their response.Later, the submission of filled-up questionnaires by the local bodies was affected by the byelections in October and November as a majority of field staff was engaged in poll duties.After considering all these facts, it has been decided to recommend to the state government to extend the term of the commission up to October 2022, Satti said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/6th-himachal-finance-commission-seeks-extension-of-term-101639860914014.html
19-12-2021||Chandigarh||Cold wave persists in Himachal, dense fog alert in five districts; snow in Manali, Dalhousie||Biting cold wave conditions persist in Himachal on Saturday as the minimum temperatures dropped a few more notches even as skies cleared after a fresh snowfall the previous evening.Shimla MeT centre director Surender Paul said the night temperatures were at least 3 degrees below normal. The minimum temperature of Shimla, Kalpa, Dharamshala, Palampur, Solan and Dalhousie were 5 degrees below normal.Earlier, Nichar and Kalpa in Kinnaur district experienced 10 cm and 8 cm snowfall, respectively. Kothi in Kullu got 7.5 cm snow, Sarahan and Narkanda 5 cm each and Keylong 1.5 cm snowfall.Tourist town Manali, McLeodganj and Naddi village and Dalhousie also got mild snow to the delight of tourists.The MeT department has forecast snow and rain in isolated places today and a yellow alert has been issued for dense fog in Una, Bilaspur, Hamirpur, Solan and Kangra districts for the next three days.Weather would be largely dry till December 21, said Paul.Meanwhile, Lahaul-Spiti police said that road conditions were favourable only for four-wheel-drive vehicles. A fresh advisory will be issued after the road conditions, said Lahaul-Spiti superintendent of police Manav Verma.In Manali, tourist vehicles are allowed only up to Solang. Kullu SP Gurdev Chand Sharma said the BRO has pressed men and machinery to clear the roads. “The Jalori pass is completely blocked for traffic movement due to heavy snow accumulation,” he said.Sub-zero temperaturesKeylong, the administrative headquarters of Lahaul-Spiti, was the coldest in the state recording a night temperature of -10.3°C followed by Kalpa at -7°C.Kufri shivered at -2.8 °C while state capital Shimla saw a minimum of -0.1°C. Solan was cold at -1.6°C, Dalhousie -1.6°C.Manali recorded night temperature of -0.4 °C, Palampur 1.5°C and Dharamshala 1.8°C.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/cold-wave-persists-in-himachal-dense-fog-alert-in-five-districts-snow-in-manali-dalhousie-101639860912713.html
19-12-2021||Chandigarh||HC: Female victim’s statement is sufficient to proceed against accused||The testimony of a prosecutrix in a case of crime against women does not require any corroboration and is sufficient to proceed against an accused, the Punjab and Haryana high court has said. The trial court is not required to look for any other supportive or new material at the time of framing of charges, the court added. The high court bench of justice Suvir Sehgal was dealing with a plea from one Balkar Singh of Mansa. According to allegations levelled by a woman, he had a property dispute with her. On spotting the woman working in the courtyard of her house on October 25, 2016, he allegedly stopped his tractor and co-accused Bhola Singh instigated him to disgrace her. Upon this, both allegedly entered her house, and Balkar Singh molested her and tried to drag her inside. When she resisted his attempts, he assaulted her and inflicted injuries on her, it was alleged, following which an FIR was registered for outraging woman’s modesty, house trespass and voluntarily causing hurt.The woman had named Balkar consistently, and categorically deposed regarding his role. However, police filed the chargesheet only against the co-accused, Bhola Singh. The police probe had concluded that Balkar was not in the village at the time of the incident on the basis of the tower location of his mobile phone. The trial court framed charges against the co-accused, but on the basis of the woman’s plea, the revisional court ordered Balkar’s summoning as an additional accused. He had challenged this order before the high court, claiming that order passed by the revisional court is not sustainable as it ignored that the investigation found him innocent.The high court said the apex court has spelt out that what trial court has to examine at the time of framing of charges is whether prime facie case is made out for framing of charge. It further said that the material on record has to be examined in this background. Since, the woman has consistently and categorically deposed regarding Balkar’s role, he ought to be summoned, said the high court. “The evidence of the prosecutrix has been placed on a much higher pedestal than that of an injured witness by the Supreme Court,” the bench observed, adding that her testimony does not require any corroboration and is sufficient to proceed against the accused. Dismissing Balkar’s plea, it directed the trial court to frame fresh charges and conduct the trial again. 
19-12-2021||Chandigarh||BSF shoots down drone along Pak border in Punjab||The Border Security Force (BSF) shot down a drone along the India-Pakistan border in Punjab late on Friday night. BSF officials said the Chinese-made drone was detected and downed near the Wan border post in the Ferozepur sector around 11:10 pm on Friday. The black colour flying object was shot at a distance of about 300 metres from the international border and 150 metres from the border fence, they said. The drone, a hexa-copter with four power batteries, weighed around 23 kg and could carry a payload of around 10 kg, it is learnt. However, it was not carrying any payload like drugs, arms or ammunition, said the BSF. India’s border guarding organisation said a search operation is being carried out in the incident area. In the recent past, the BSF has shot down two such drones that originated in Pakistan and were carrying arms and ammunition.Captain targets Congress govt Meanwhile, the incident resulted in a political slugfest in Punjab with former chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh targeting the incumbent, Charanjit Singh Channi, home minister Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa and state Congress chief Navjot Singh Sidhu.“Instead of doing bhangra all day, Punjab CM should advise his home minister to get active and come out of denial mode. Also tell your party president (if he listens to you) to ask his elder brother Imran Khan to stop trying to disturb our border state of Punjab,” Amarinder wrote on Twitter.Hitting back at Amarinder, Randhawa reminded him that the BSF comes under the Union home ministry and not the Punjab government. “Instead of beating around bush, you (Amarinder) should call spade a spade and blame the NDA (central government) for failing to protect borders,” Randhawa wrote on Twitter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/bsf-shoots-down-drone-along-pak-border-in-punjab-101639857194574.html
19-12-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab polls: Election manifesto should get legal status, says Sukhbir Badal||Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) president Sukhbir Singh Badal on Saturday said the election manifesto should be given the status of a legal document to ensure political parties were made liable for promises made by them. He said that the SAD will approach court to get legal status for poll manifesto as both the Congress and Aam Aadmi Party were making false promises to woo voters. The former Punjab deputy chief minister was speaking to newsmen after holding a massive rally in support of SAD candidate Surjit Singh Rakhra at Samana. He said the Akali Dal had also written to the Election Commission to devise ways and means to get the election manifesto enforced. “We will also move court if need be to ensure no political party befools people by making wild promises and gets away with it. We also feel that this clause should be included in the Representation of the People Act,” said Sukhbir, adding that Congress and AAP leaders were making promises that are not feasible.  “Kejriwal does not have any intention of implementing even one of the promises made by him as he has not implemented them in Delhi too,” he alleged, while also targeting former chief minister Amarinder Singh for failing to fulfil promises made ahead of the previous elections. Speaking about the Congress government, Badal said its days were numbered. “CM Charanjit Singh Channi is being greeted with empty chairs and protests by various sections of people, including employees. This is because Channi promised big but did not deliver anything. People will not forgive him for playing with their sentiments,” he said. 
19-12-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab polls: After Captain’s exit, it’s a tall order for Congress to hold on to its Patiala bastion||When Captain Amarinder Singh led the Congress to a decisive win in the 2017 assembly elections, he also cemented the party’s position in his royal constituency of Patiala. The Congress won from seven out of the eight assembly segments in the district, but holding on to these seats won’t be a cakewalk this time. It’s also a test of clout for Amarinder, whose newly floated Punjab Lok Congress will fight the elections in alliance with the BJP. Meanwhile, the SAD-BSP alliance and AAP raise the stakes and make the contest multi-cornered. Hindustan Times looks at the political landscape and key issues in each of the assembly segments in the district:Patiala: A test of clout between Capt and Cong An urban segment, it is the stronghold of Patiala royals since Captain Amarinder Singh joined the Congress. Though Hindus comprise a majority, urban Sikhs hold an equivalent sway. After Surjit Singh Kohli, who won in 1997, SAD has experimented with Bhagwan Dass Juneja (2014 bypoll) and General JJ Singh (2017 polls), but none could revive its fortune. Now, it has fielded Juneja’s son Harpal. Amarinder commands respect from all communities, as mostly all were settled here by his forefathers. However, the voters have traditionally supported the Congress, and with Amarinder parting ways with the party, it might be tough for him to enjoy the same old clout. However, the BJP’s entry might tilt the balance in Amarinder’s favour once again, as the RSS holds sway in the walled city and the former two-time CM has forged an alliance with the saffron party. Meanwhile, the Royal City has not seen much development, with most works just being cosmetic. Nabha: Dropped from cabinet, MLA still holds sway Nabha comprises the erstwhile royal town and almost 150 villages. While the town is dominated by Hindus, Jat Sikhs and Dalits are dominant communities in the rural belt. Traditionally a Congress stronghold, the segment is represented by Sadhu Singh Dharamsot. Brought in after the seat was reserved in 2012, he has won twice and was also awarded with a place in the cabinet. Even as he was dropped from the cabinet amid corruption charges, the Dalit leader still remains dominant in Nabha. The SAD, in 2012, had fielded Kabir Dass, another Dalit face poached from the Congress. Though he lost, he has made inroads and will contest against Dharamsot again. Even the AAP has a strong support base, and Gurdev Singh Dev Mann, who finished second in 2017, is eyeing the party ticket. However, with Captain Amarinder Singh floating a new party, the fight will be four-cornered, as the royal family also holds sway in the area. As for local issues, sewerage disposal is the key one in the city, while unemployment is the major one in rural areas. Patiala Rural: Mayor vs Mohindra makes it tight battleThough named rural, only 25% of the voters in this segment reside in the 70-odd villages. Tripuri and Urban Estate comprise the significant vote bank, and are a Congress stronghold, with Hindus and Bahwalpur community holding the sway. Brahm Mohindra has won the past two elections from here, and after a patch-up with Captain Amarinder Singh, he had enjoyed maximum influence under his government. Mohindra has pumped in a lot of funds in the constituency and ensured overall development, but there is still a strong anti-incumbency. As Mohindra is not in the pink of his health, his son Mohit is holding the fort for the past two years. Meanwhile, Patiala mayor Sanjiv Bittu, who was earlier eyeing the Congress ticket, has joined Captain Amarinder’s Punjab Lok Congress and might spell trouble for Mohindras and Congress. The SAD has fielded Jaspal Singh Bittu Chahta, a former councillor, but winning the seat is a tall order for him. Even as the AAP secured the second position in 2017, a repeat might be difficult. Rajpura: A Hindu dominant seat with familiar faces in frayRajpura and Banur towns along with a number of villages form this assembly segment. Hindus, especially the Bahwalpur community, decides the fate of candidates. After the demise of Balramji Das Tandon, the saffron party has failed to capitalise in this Hindu dominant town. After him, Raj Khurana was the only leader having support of the Bahwalpur community, and he won the seat on both BJP (2007) and Congress (2012) ticket. The BJP’s 2017 nominee, Harjit Singh Grewal, is in the centre of controversies over his support to farm laws. For the Congress, Hardial Singh Kamboj is a familiar face and he has done the ground work. His only problem is the emergence of Punjab Lok Congress, as Preneet Kaur’s loyalist Jagdev Singh Jagga has already thrown his hat in the ring to cut the Congress vote share. The AAP has strong support in both rural and urban areas, and has fielded Neena Mittal, another familiar face. Drugs and illegal lottery are biggest problems in the area. Due to a massive increase in population, locals are also demanding improvement in civic amenities.Samana: A rural seat shuttling between Congress, AkalisThe Aggarwal community owns key businesses, and thus wields strong political influence in Samana, a predominantly rural segment. In 2017, Rajinder Singh, son of the Mandi Board chairman Laal Singh, won the seat for the Congress. He is banking upon the Congress vote bank, personal rapport of his father, and development works undertaken in the past five years. Surjit Singh Rakhra, one of the liberal faces of the SAD, enjoys support in both rural and urban areas and even defeated Raninder Singh, son of Captain Amarinder Singh, in the 2007 elections. A member of a US-based business family, the soft-spoken former rural development minister is known for his development agenda as he had infused a lot of funds in Samana. The Dera Sacha Sauda also holds sway in the area, and its followers had voted for Rakhra last time. The RSS and BJP also have a significant support base in Samana town. A BJP candidate or Sandeep Singla, who is being projected by Captain Amarinder’s party, will make the contest multidimensional. As for the AAP, no prominent leader has been active here in recent times. Lack of civic amenities is a major issue in urban areas, while the SAD is projecting the lack of development in rural areas as the major issue. Ghanaur: A keen contest as Akali veteran enters the frayGhanuar is a rural segment that shares border with Haryana. It is the first area in Punjab where residents will get canal-based water supply, for which work is in the final stages. A hub of illegal mining and liquor smuggling, it also suffers from frequent flooding in the Ghaggar. Politically, the Congress and SAD have remained neck and neck in this constituency. The seat is set for a tough fight as the SAD has fielded its senior leader and former MP Prem Singh Chandumajra, who is known for his aggressive politics, while ignoring former MLA Harpreet Kaur Mukhmailpur, whose family enjoys a significant support. Mukhmailpur is in touch with Captain Amarinder and might contest on the Punjab Lok Congress ticket, denting the vote share of both the Congress and Akalis. Meanwhile, sitting Congress MLA Madan Lal Jalalpur, a staunch supporter-turned-critic of Preneet Kaur, has risen in clout after the ouster of Captain Amarinder Singh and is popular among the masses. With kabaddi player Gurlal Singh Ghanaur contesting on the AAP ticket, the winning margins are likely to be very thin this time. Shutrana: Capt’s party expected to change political landscape Sitting Congress MLA Nirmal Singh is a seasoned politician and has won the Shutrana seat thrice, either as an Akali or Congress candidate. However, age has taken its toll on this Dalit leader, and the Congress is looking for a new face. Though Nirmal Singh wants the party ticket for his son, a retired excise official and a former MLA are also in the fray. In this mostly rural segment, Aggarwal and Brahmin business communities of Patran town hold the sway and have traditionally voted for the Congress. The SAD has fielded Vaninder Kaur Loomba, whose father was also active in politics and enjoys a good rapport. She is the wife of transport department official Karan Singh. Even the AAP has a strong presence in the area. However, the personal rapport of Preneet Kaur in the area will be the key in the election. She has personally supervised development works, and the entry of Punjab Lok Congress is expected to change the political landscape in Shutrana. Sanour: Two Congress power centres leave workers confusedSanour, a rural segment, was once the stronghold of former SGPC chief and Akali stalwart Gurcharan Singh Tohra, but with the passage of time, Laal Singh made it a Congress bastion. In view of the “one family, one ticket” policy, Laal Singh had to sit out as his son was fielded from Samana in 2017. The party fielded Harinderpal Singh Harry Mann from Sanour, but he lost to Akali leader Prem Singh Chandumajra’s son Harinderpal, who remains a strong candidate even this time. After the Congress managed an impressive lead of nearly 42,000 votes in the 2019 Lok Sabha polls from this assembly segment — highest in Punjab — Harry Mann was back in the reckoning. However, Laal Singh’s return has left the party workers confused and divided. Last time, the AAP has fielded Kuldeep Kaur Tohra, daughter of Gurcharan Tohra, but she failed to do anything remarkable. Thus, the AAP has now fielded SAD turncoat Harmeet Singh Pathanmajra. What makes the poll battle more interesting is the entry of son of Bikram Singh Chahal, son of Captain Amarinder Singh’s adviser Bharat Inder Singh Chahal, who has projected himself as the Punjab Lok Congress candidate from Sanour. For the voters, lack of development, water contamination, poor health facilities and Ghaggar floods are the key issues. 
19-12-2021||Chandigarh||Two held with 352 boxes of illicit liquor in Karnal||The Karnal police have recovered 352 boxes of illicit liquor from a truck and arrested two people for alleged liquor smuggling.Police said the accused have been identified as Ashok Kumar, of Karnal, and Manish, of Gheer village in district. Police said the accused were transporting the liquor from Chandigarh to Rajasthan.Deepender Rana, in-charge of the CIA-I of the Karnal police, said the accused were arrested near Shamgarh village on NH-44 in Karnal district on Friday night and during inspection of their truck, the team recovered 352 boxes containing 4,224 bottles of Indian-made foreign liquor (IMFL).He said the illegal liquor was hidden under bags of fertilisers. The accused used to bring liquor from Chandigarh, sell it in Rajasthan at higher prices, and supplied it in Gujarat.He said the accused were produced before court and sent on two-day police remand.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/two-held-with-352-boxes-of-illicit-liquor-in-karnal-101639856471566.html
19-12-2021||Other||28 fresh Covid cases reported in Punjab||Chandigarh Punjab on Saturday registered 28 fresh cases of Covid-19 with one death from virus in past 24-hours. The state’s positivity rate for the day remained 0.11%. With these fresh cases, the state’s total tally of positive cases has reached 6,03,917 cases, according to a medical bulletin that the state government releases. The number of active cases in the state has increased to 306. Among fresh cases, the maximum of five were detected in Ludhiana, five in Pathankot, five in SAS Nagar and three in Hoshiarpur. With 42 persons recovered from the infection, the number of cured persons has reached 5,86,983, it said. To date, 16,628 persons have lost their lives due to the virus. Overall, 1,66,07,943 samples have been collected for testing to date in the state, of which 25,346 were tested on Saturday. As many as 72,167 doses of vaccine were administered on the day.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/28-fresh-covid-cases-reported-in-punjab-101639856410908.html
19-12-2021||Other||Sidhu challenges Kejriwal for debate; dubs him a political tourist||Jalandhar Punjab Congress president Navjot Singh Sidhu has challenged Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) convener and Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal, who he also called a political tourist, for a debate on issues like liquor, mining, PRTC buses and generation of new jobs on Saturday. “I challenge you, Kejriwal, for an open debate, whether across Punjab or in Delhi on live television. If I lose the debate, I will leave politics,” said Sidhu, addressing a rally in Sultanpur Lodhi in favour of sitting MLA, Navtej Singh Cheema; he categorically backed him as the party candidate in 2022 tate assembly polls. “Kejriwal is a liar, as he has announced generation of ₹20,000 crore from mining. The fact is that the previous Akali government deposited ₹40 crore a year in treasury from mining; the Congress government is earning between ₹200 crore and ₹300 crore. Where will Kejriwal get the remaining ₹20,000? No state is earning over ₹3,000 crore from mining,” he claimed, alleging that Kejriwal had also allowed sale of liquor on streets of Delhi. “I am not in favour of liquor but if liquor has to sell then why not it would be through government channels,” he claimed, adding, “My battle is for the state and either the mafia will stay in Punjab or I.” He also announced that if voted to power, the new Congress government in Punjab will provide ₹400 per day allowance to marginal farmers (under 5 acres) and farm labourers under his Punjab model. He also accused Kejriwal of allowing only private buses of the Badal family to ply to the Delhi international airport. “Why are only private buses of Sukhbir being allowed to ply to Delhi. Is it because you are conniving with the Badals. Why did you apologise from ex-Akali minister, Bikram Singh Majithia,” alleged Sidhu, a former cabinet minister. 
19-12-2021||Chandigarh||BSEH conducts TET level-3 exam||As many as 70,773 candidates appeared for the Haryana Teacher Eligibility Test level-3 (PGT) being conducted by the Board of Secondary Education Haryana (BSEH), across 244 examination centres across state on Saturday. Total eight cases of unfair means were reported by the board officials.Board chairman Jagbir Singh said 70,773 candidates appeared for the level-3 examination, which was held peacefully amid policy security. “We monitored the examination by keeping continuous vigil on the CCTV cameras installed at the centres,” the board chairman said.“We have formed 178 teams to inspect the examination process. As many as 77,510 candidates will appear for the Trained Graduate Teacher (TGT) level test in the morning shift, and 39,708 will appear for the Primary Teacher (PRT) test in the evening shift on Sunday,” the board chairman added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/bseh-conducts-tet-level-3-exam-101639856175866.html
19-12-2021||Delhi||Cops to examine security lapses in Rohini court after blast exposes loopholes||Delhi Police on Saturday said that they have launched a probe into the major security lapse at the Rohini court complex where a Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO) scientist was allegedly able to smuggle in an improvised explosive device (IED) without raising any suspicion. Police said the suspect, Bharat Bhushan Kataria, wanted to murder his former neighbour, a lawyer, over a decade-long rivalry.According to police, CCTV footage from the entrance gate on December 9 showed that Kataria, who was dressed as a lawyer, entered the court complex carrying two bags, one of them containing the IED in a steel tiffin box, and even passed through the door frame metal detector (DFMD) at gate number 7 without raising any suspicion. The video footage from the entry gate showed that Kataria also raised the bag containing the bomb, keeping it away from the hand-held metal detector, during frisking.Officials said there was a baggage scanner installed at the gate but it was not clear if Kataria’s bags went through it.“The statements of the security personnel present at the gates will be recorded to ascertain if the DFMD or the hand held metal detector had beeped when Kataria was frisked during his entry. If the machines were functioning properly and had beeped after detecting the metal item (the steel tiffin box), why did they not bother to open the bag and search. Prime facie, it seems that the personnel ignored the beep, thinking that it was just a lawyer carrying his lunch box,” said a police officer, who asked not to be named.A double-layer security arrangement was put in place at all the nine entry and exit gates of the Rohini court complex, after dreaded gangster Jitender Maan alias Gogi, was shot dead by two gunmen dressed as lawyers in courtroom number 207 on September 24 this year.Apart from increasing the deployment of police personnel, the number of CCTV cameras installed in the premises were increased and baggage scanners, DFMD and hand-held metal detectors were also provided to assist the security personnel.How the scientist sneaked inDeputy commissioner of police (special cell) Rajeev Ranjan Singh said that Kataria, dressed as a lawyer and carrying two bags, arrived outside the court in his Ertiga car around 9.30am and entered the premises through gate number 7.“Kataria left the bags at a booth selling milk products in the court complex and left the premises using the same gate. The footage shows that a few minutes later, he tried to enter using gate number 9 but failed. Thereafter, he went to gate number 8 and entered the court premises again. He was actually trying to weave an evasive pattern,” said DCP Singh.Police said Kataria retrieved the bags from the booth and went inside the court building, from where his movements could not be captured as there are no cameras installed inside. He is later seen leaving the court complex in a hurry at 10.35am, nearly 10 minutes after the blast, from gate number 8 with only one bag on his shoulders. Kataria was finally seen leaving in his car using the Ring Road.Logo on bag turns crucial leadPolice said that a damaged laptop bag recovered from the spot turned a crucial lead as it contained the logo of a Mumbai-based company, which made the bag for distribution to the employees of another Delhi-based multinational medical equipment firm in 2006.“We found that one Anil Kataria, a relative of the DRDO scientist, was the company’s director (sales and marketing). Analysis of all cases listed in the courtroom on December 9 revealed that the scientist’s case was also up for hearing on that day. We dug further and learnt that the scientist’s opponent in the case, lawyer Amit Vashisht, was seated on a chair closest to the blast site and he had received minor leg injury apart from the shock,” said an investigator.After establishing a possible link, the investigating team scanned the video footage and identified Kataria entering the court complex with two bags but leaving with only one. Some other witnesses also confirmed Kataria’s presence, said DCP Singh.“After careful scrutiny of all available evidence, Kataria was questioned on Friday and subsequently arrested the same day. We searched his house and found several file covers, identical to those which were in the IED bag, similar screws that were used as shrapnel in the IED, and remnants of the black adhesive tape used in assembling the IED. The black coat and trouser worn by him on that day were also recovered. Some incriminating documents and other electronic devices including laptops and mobile phones have also been seized for further investigation,” added Singh.
19-12-2021||Delhi||Most pvt schools wait, may reopen tomorrow||A day after the Commission for Air Quality Management (CAQM) in Delhi-NCR and regional areas announced several relaxations to pollution curbs, a few government schools restarted physical classes even as public infrastructure projects in the city awaited more clarity from the Delhi government.CAQM on Friday allowed schools and other educational institutions to be reopened in a phased manner from Saturday, and allowed resumption of work on “linear public projects”, including roads, highways, underpasses, overbridges, flyovers and pipelines along with projects related to health infrastructure, sanitation and public utility, even as the ban continued to be in place for other construction projects.While the Delhi government’s directorate of education (DOE) subsequently issued directions to restart classes from Class 6 onwards in city schools from December 18 within minutes of the CAQM order, officials from the Public Works Department (PWD) — the primary Delhi government construction agency — said they were waiting for similar orders regarding resumption of construction work.“We needed some clarity around the exemptions so work has not started immediately on our sites,” a senior PWD official confirmed.Delhi environment department officials later clarified that there will not be a separate order for resuming construction of public projects. “We will not be issuing a separate order on construction exemptions. CAQM order issued on Friday will be considered as the final word,” a senior environment department official said.Meanwhile, Delhi government schools welcomed senior students back on campus on Saturday while many private schools began seeking permission from students’ parents to restart classes from Monday.Jyoti Arora, principal of Mount Abu Public School in Rohini, said that classes will resume from Monday, adding that the school will take some time to resume transport services. “We map the bus routes and work out the modalities but there is some disruption or closure each time, due to which the process gets derailed. We will wait for another 10 days before resuming services,” said Arora.Sudha Acharya, principal of ITL Public School, Dwarka, and the chairperson of the National Progressive School’s Conference, which has over 120 private Delhi schools as its members, said that her school had informed parents and was in the process of taking their consents.“Students are excited and we hope to see them back in the classrooms next week. While we are yet to decide the winter vacation, we hope to hold online classes during the break for students in grades above 9,” She said.On November 16, on the directions of the Supreme Court, the CAQM banned construction and demolition activities in Delhi and NCR, along with calling in other curbs on polluting sources, such as banning the entry of trucks, except those carrying essential items, into Delhi; ordering action against industries operating on unclean fuels; and allowing only scheduled operations for thermal power plants.
19-12-2021||Delhi||4 dead after truck topples onto auto near IGI Stadium||Four persons, including a 13-year-old boy, were crushed to death after an allegedly speeding container truck loaded with rice fell on the autorickshaw they were travelling in near the Indira Gandhi Indoor Stadium on the Ring Road in central Delhi on Saturday morning, police said.Though the driver and the helper of the truck -- identified as Pratish Choudhary (29) and Nitish (24), respectively -- fled the spot immediately after the accident, police said they were arrested by Saturday evening.The accident affected traffic movement on the road through the day as the loaded container could not be removed till late evening.Deputy commissioner of police (central) Shweta Singh Chauhan said that the four deceased were identified as auto driver Surender Yadav (40), his nephew Jay Yadav (32), and two other passengers Komal Singh (35) and his nephew Tata Prakash (13). Police said the driver and his nephew hailed from Madhubani in Bihar, and the two passengers were from Uttar Pradesh.Police said the auto driver had picked up the two passengers from Seelampur and was going to drop them at Srinivaspuri, where Singh had landed a job as a cook in a police chowki and was reporting for his first day of work.Singh came to the city on Friday with Prakash, who came along for sightseeing, said his relative Neeraj.Although police have not established the exact reason for the accident, preliminary investigation suggests that the truck -- heading towards Tughlaqabad container depot from Sonepat -- was descending the Salimgarh bypass flyover at a high speed when the driver lost control of the vehicle and fell on the auto on its right. Officials said marks on the road suggest that the truck skid for a few metres with the crushed auto under it before coming to a stop.DCP Chauhan said that the accident took place at around 7am on the Ring Road outside gate number 16 of the stadium.A police patrol team tried unsuccessfully to move the container with the help of some passersby, following which rescue teams from the fire department and other rescue agencies used a crane to lift the container truck.“The auto had turned into a mangled heap and we had to cut the frame to recover the bodies. Except the driver, the other three occupants were crushed beyond recognition. Initially, only the driver and his nephew were identified. The other two were identified with the help of the documents found in their pockets,” said a police officer, who asked not to be named.Family members of the deceased reached Lok Nayak hospital mortuary after being informed about the deaths by the police.This is the second accident in Delhi in the last 10 days -- on the night of December 8, a 37-year-old legal consultant of a private firm and his 32-year-old wife were killed when a truck carrying building material toppled on their car in south Delhi’s RK Puram area. Their six-year-old daughter, who was also with them in the car, survived the accident.Data from Delhi Traffic Police shows that till September 15 this year, 99 people lost their lives in 91 accidents caused by trucks on the city’s streets.
19-12-2021||Delhi||In blast build-up, 11-yr-long tussle played out on streets, inside court||The low-intensity explosion at the Rohini court complex on December 9, executed by a DRDO scientist to kill his former neighbour — an advocate, was a result of a 11-year-old legal battle between them that played out on the roads, courts, police stations, and offices of the Ministry of Defence and the Central Information Commission. According to police, the two men lived with their families in the same building in Ashok Vihar’s A-block until three years ago, and initially fought over the construction of a water tank on the terrace of their building in 2011.Documents seen by HT showed that on March 11, 2015, the arrested blast suspect, Bharat Bhushan Kataria (47), had filed a police complaint against the neighbour, lawyer Amit Vashisht, alleging that the latter had sent goons to kill him in a road accident. Kataria had filed the complaint after he was allegedly hit by a Wagon R car in northwest Delhi’s Keshav Puram while returning home on his motorcycle. In his complaint, he alleged that the men in the Wagon R car had shouted, “Amit se panga padega mehanga (a fight with Amit will be costly)” before fleeing from the scene.Calling the allegations false, Vashisht subsequently wrote to senior Delhi Police officers, seeking to change the investigating officer of the case.Delhi Police officers, who interrogated Kataria after his latest arrest, said the suspect claimed that Vashisht filed complaints with the DRDO, alleging that he took a bribe from a private lift management company, engaged by the Ministry of Defence, to install an elevator in their building.Kataria further told police said that Vashisht and his family had also filed RTI appeals with the Central Information Commission when the defence ministry refused to share details about Kataria’s alleged conflict of interest in hiring a DRDO-appointed company for the private work. On October 24, 2016, CIC directed DRDO to share with Vashisht the names of vendors hired by DRDO.To be sure, the Delhi Police special cell probing the Rohini court blast case is not involved or concerned with the allegations or counter allegations between the two men in the past.Police officers, who questioned Kataria, said that he has filed at least four criminal cases -- ranging from assault and criminal intimidation to wrongful restraint and molestation -- against Vashisht at Ashok Vihar, Keshav Puram and Jahangirpuri police stations.“From fights over parking their vehicles and throwing water at one another’s house to allegations of molestation and attempted murder, the two men and their families were fighting for over a decade,” said a police officer. Vashisht was not available for comment as his cellphone was switched off and a text message sent to him remained unanswered. 
19-12-2021||Noida||Greater Noida: Auto driver booked for allegedly molesting 28-year-old passenger||An auto driver was booked on Saturday for allegedly molesting a 28-year-old woman, who was travelling with her four-year old daughter, when she objected to him taking a “wrong route” in Greater Noida on Thursday night. The woman eventually jumped off the auto with her child, and raised an alarm.The auto driver managed to escape before the police could reach the spot, said officials.The woman is a resident of Delhi’s Ashram, and lives with her husband and daughter. The woman had gone to Surajpur on Thursday to meet her unwell brother.“I am an auto driver in Delhi... so, I do not have a permit to run my auto in the National Capital Region (NCR). I booked a shared auto for my wife and daughter from Rajnigandha Chowk in Noida Sector 16 at 10:50pm to Greater Noida, and noted down the registration number of the auto,” the victim’s husband said, adding that the auto driver picked up some other passengers and left for Greater Noida.“The auto driver dropped all other passengers on the way, except for the mother-daughter duo, and got a CNG from a fuel station. From there, another auto driver started the ride,” he added.The victim said in her complaint that the auto driver took a wrong route near the CRPF camp in Greater Noida. “When I objected, he molested and beat me. I jumped off the auto with my child, and sought help from passersby. Meanwhile, the driver escaped with the auto,” she said.The husband said, “My wife made a phone call to me immediately after the incident. We reported the matter to the police. An official team from the Ecotech 3 police station reached the spot and launched a search, but the suspect had managed to escape by then. We provided the police with the registration number of the auto, and hope that the suspect is arrested at the earliest.”Harish Chander, deputy commissioner of police, Noida Central, said a case has been registered against the unidentified auto driver under Indian Penal Code (IPC) sections 323 (voluntarily causing hurt) and 354 (assault of criminal force to woman with intent to outrage her modesty) on Friday. “We have identified the auto used in the incident, and the auto driver will be arrested soon,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/greater-noida-auto-driver-booked-for-allegedly-molesting-28-year-old-passenger-101639855693002.html
19-12-2021||Noida||Five arrested for robbing driver of tractor-trolley in Greater Noida||The police arrested five people on Saturday for allegedly robbing a tractor-trolley after offering a driver a beverage laced with sedatives in Greater Noida nearly five months ago, said officials.Sudhir Kumar, station house officer (SHO), Kasna police station, said the victim — Ranpal Bhati, 50, a resident of Dada village — filed a complaint against the suspects at the police station on July 5.Police identified the suspects as Sher Singh, 21, Mahtab, 30, Monu Kumar, 36 — all residents of Auraiya in Uttar Pradesh; and Kanhaiya, 36, and Hari Shankar, 27 — residents of Uttar Pradesh’s Kanpur and Mathura, who have been involved in similar crimes.Bhati told the police that Sher had called him on July 5 and booked a tractor-trolley to transport goods from Greater Noida’s Acher to Kasna. “My driver Sunny Deol, 30, had gone for the assignment with the tractor. However, the suspect’s cellphone was switched off when we tried to reach him. After two hours, when we searched for Deol, we found him unconscious in Acher, and the vehicle was missing,” Bhati said in his complaint.Later, Deol told the police that three suspects — Sher, Kanhaiya and Shankar — had offered him a cold drink laced with sedatives after he met them for the service. “Deol consumed the cold drink and was unconscious. The three suspects then escaped with the tractor-trolley, leaving Deol in Acher,” said SHO Kumar.A case was registered against three suspects under Indian Penal Code (IPC) sections 328 (causing hurt by means of poison, etc, with intent to commit an offence) and 379 (theft) at the Kasna police station on July 5.“On Saturday, we received a tip about the suspects’ movement near Sirsa Cut in Kasna. A police team reached the spot and arrested all the five suspects from there,” said SHO Kumar.Police have also recovered two countrymade guns, two knives, two tractors, and a stolen cellphone from their possession. They were produced before a court and sent to judicial custody on Saturday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/five-arrested-for-robbing-driver-of-tractor-trolley-in-greater-noida-101639855691567.html
19-12-2021||Noida||Homebuyers continue to demand vigilance dept, grievance cell in Noida authority||Many homebuyers in the city alleged on Saturday that the “Noida authority officials do not bother about transparency, and ignore issues faced by the people”.This came one day after the Comptroller and Auditor General (CAG), in its performance audit report, claimed “gaps in the governance structure of the Noida authority”, which has translated into extremely poor outcomes for all principal stakeholders including the authority, the government of Uttar Pradesh, industries, and the public, specifically the homebuyers.The homebuyers said that the state government kept ignoring their demands of setting up a dedicated vigilance department in the Noida authority, to handle corruption complaints filed against the authority officials. In 2017, they wrote a letter to the state government and officials concerned, demanding an independent vigilance body and a grievance cell be set up in the Noida authority for the homebuyers. “But nothing has happened so far, because it seems that the Uttar Pradesh government has not bothered to act on these issues, or take action against corrupt officials,” said SK Nagrath, president of Jaypee Aman homebuyers welfare association, who is also a resident of Noida Sector 41.“We had written a letter to Noida MLA Pankaj Singh and Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath, demanding an independent vigilance body and a grievance cell in the Noida authority, , but no action was taken,” Nagrath said, adding that public representatives and senior officers should ensure that “residents as well as homebuyers in Noida are not unduly troubled by the authority”.Mangeram Bhati, an advocate and member of Gautam Budh Nagar Bar Council, said, “For example, if any clerk asks for a bribe, where should we file a complaint? We have to go to the same corrupt officials to file a complaint. There is an immediate need for a separate vigilance team, which can probe and act on such complaints.”Uttar Pradesh industry minister Satish Mahana, however, refuted the allegations that their government has not been taking action in corruption cases from Noida. “We launch probes in corruption cases, be it against any official or department of the Noida authority. We have addressed all issues faced by the homebuyers and others too in the past... Our government has zero tolerance against corruption,” Mahana said.
19-12-2021||Other||Over a month on, new BHU VC yet to take charge||VARANASI Banaras Hindu University (BHU) unit of National Students’ Union of India (NSUI) and teaching staff have demanded that the central government should take note of the delay in taking charge by Prof Sudhir Jain who was appointed new vice-chancellor of the BHU on November 14. Raising question over the delay in taking charge, in an open letter, NSUI (BHU) president Rana Rohit asked, “Prof Jain should make it clear as to why he is not taking charge despite being appointed the new V-C around a month ago. He visited the campus few days back, stayed for six days here and held meetings with BHU officials, and went back thereafter.” Former V-C Prof Rakesh Bhatnagar’s term ended on March 28. Since then, Prof VK Shukla is serving as the officiating vice-chancellor.Many faculty members also raised questions over delay in taking the charge by him. Prof Om Shankar, HoD, cardiology at the Institute of Medical Sciences-BHU (IMS-BHU), said, “It is surprising that over a month has passed since appointment of new V-C Prof Sudhir Jain. He should make it clear as to why he hasn’t yet taken charge.” Former officer on special duty of BHU, Vishwanath Pandey said, “Government should take note of it and ask him to join at the earliest. For the last nine months, the BHU doesn’t have a regular vice-chancellor due to which several policy decisions such as promotions of teachers are getting delayed. Prof Jain got the opportunity to become V-C of the BHU, founded by great freedom fighter Mahamana Pt Madan Mohan Malviya Ji and he should assume the charge, and make serious efforts to make the university best in Asia.” Meanwhile, BHU public relation officer Dr Rajesh Singh said, “Prof Sudhir Jain is director of IIT Gandhi Nagar. Prof Jain has gone there to fulfill some responsibilities and complete formalities and he will take charge next month.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/over-a-month-on-new-bhu-vc-yet-to-take-charge-101639854311004.html
19-12-2021||Other||Ahead of Dec 23 meet with Channi, farmers say debt waiver, cancellation of FIRs key||Ludhiana Ahead of farmers’ meeting with Punjab chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi on December 23, members of 32 farm unions, part of the Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM), met in Mullanpur Dakha (district Ludhiana) on Saturday to finalise their agenda. “Farm debt waiver, cancellation of FIRs lodged against farmers during agitation and low compensation given for land acquired for highway projects major issues that we will take up,” said farm leaders Harinder Lakhowal, Prem Singh Bhangu, Hardev Singh Sandhu, Kirpa Singh and Kiranjit Singh Sekhon Bhangu added, “The state government had assured us that FIRs lodged against farmers during the stir in the state will be cancelled and the issue of cases lodged in Chandigarh will be taken up with the governor. Nothing has happened.” The government will be pressured to regularise contractual employees, who have been on protest across the state. Farmers said they also demand the suspension of the DSP who cane-charged protesting ETT Teachers. Lakhowal added and they will also demand compensation for land acquired for projects at current market rates. Farm leaders added that protests from toll plazas will not be lifted, till the hike in charges was not rolled back.‘No final decision on political plunge yet’With farm leader Gurnam Singh Chaduni announcing the launch of a political party to contest state elections in Chandigarh on Saturday, farmers from the 32 organisations said it was Chaduni’s individual decision, with the SKM having nothing to do with it. Bhangu added, “A final decision will be taken in the next meeting of SKM.” Before attending the meeting, farm leader Balbir Singh Rajewal visited Jama Masjid in Field Ganj (Ludhiana city), where the Muslim community felicitated him. Rajewal stated that the agitation against the Centre had not ended, but had only been suspended. He refrained from commenting on Chaduni’s decision or on farm leader Jagjit Singh Dallewal’s over Rashtriya Swayamsewak Sangh (RSS) remarks.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ahead-of-dec-23-meet-with-channi-farmers-say-debt-waiver-cancellation-of-firs-key-101639854011441.html
19-12-2021||Other||Gorakhpur railway auditorium worth around ₹10 crore to be ready by Jan next year||Gorakhpur: An international auditorium with a seating-capacity of 500 people, being developed at a cost around ₹10 crore by North Eastern Railway (NER), would most likely to be ready by the end of January 2022, said Pankaj Kumar Singh, chief public relation officer (CPRO), NER, at a press conference here on Saturday. According to Singh, the auditorium is unique in itself in Purvanchal region as all the international standards have been followed while constructing it. It has three entrances and also has a full-fledged theatre facility. The wooden flooring has been imported from United States which is not at all slippery. “Besides these, proper light and sound control arrangements have been made. The ceiling has a double sheet, which is perfect for acoustics and also controls heat. Glasses in the building are such that it prevents heat from inside and the windows are made of glazed reinforced concrete. Specific panelling has also been done to manage echo,” the CPRO said. “With completion of this auditorium, the organising award ceremony, seminars and other programmes will be easy. It will be a green campus with 10 KVA solar panels installed on the premises which will not only cater to the energy requirement of the auditorium, but also light up the nearby street lights. It has sufficient exit doors and firefighting apparatus to minimise the risks of accidents,” he added. Replying to a question, Singh said that it would be used for commercial purposes, but the rates for this had not been decided yet.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/gorakhpur-railway-auditorium-worth-around-rs-10-crore-to-be-ready-by-jan-next-year-101639853771396.html
19-12-2021||Lucknow||Akhilesh attacks BJP govt overI-T raids on party men’s premises||LUCKNOW Samajwadi Party (SP) national president Akhilesh Yadav attacked the BJP government over the reported income tax department raids on the premises of some party leaders since Saturday morning and said, “Now, the income tax department has jumped into election fray (from the BJP government side).” Akhilesh was addressing a press conference before starting his second day of the Rae Bareli Vijay Yatra. To note, several teams of the income tax department raided offices and residences of the state’s main opposition party leaders on Saturday. “We were wondering where the I-T department was. This (raids) was awaited. First big leaders from Delhi have been coming to UP (poll scene) and now I-T has come. Soon ED and other agencies will come in. I had always been saying that as imminent defeat is nagging the BJP, such things would begin. Anyone who takes on this government will be victimized. Look at Azam Khan (SP MP who is in jail for land grabbing issue), look at farmers, what the BJP government has done to them.” “Now the income tax department has come into the election fray. This is not CBI or I-T elections. It’s peoples’ election. People have made up their mind to oust this government that has caused Killat, Dikkat, and Zillat (scarcity, adversity, and humiliation) to people”, he said. “Rajiv Rai is a spokesperson of the party. Why did the raid come shortly before the elections? Why didn’t the I-T department act when he submitted his balance sheet and other documents?” Akhilesh also attacked the Congress over the “ tactics of using ED, CBI, I-T against rivals” and said, “The BJP is treading the path shown by the Congress, which started this culture.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/akhilesh-attacks-bjp-govt-overi-t-raids-on-party-men-s-premises-101639853411349.html
19-12-2021||Other||Yogi reviews preparations for PM’s Prayagraj visit||UP chief minister Yogi Adityanath arrived in Sangam city on Saturday evening along with senior ministers of his cabinet and reviewed preparations for the proposed visit of Prime Minister Narendra Modi in the city, on December 21.After arriving at the Prayagraj airport in the evening, the CM, accompanied by the ministers of his cabinet, proceeded to the Parade Ground of Sangam area. Climbing on the main stage, from where the PM will address a public meeting, the CM inquired about the preparations being made by the district administration for the event. The CM was at the venue along with BJP Member of Parliament from Prayagraj, Rita Bahuguna Joshi, cabinet minister and MLA from Allahabad West, Sidharth Nath Singh, minister of civil aviation Nand Gopal Gupta ‘Nandi’, among others, while the district magistrate Sanjay Kumar Khatri updated him about the preparations. The CM carefully studied the blueprint prepared by the administration and inquired about all the details regarding the arrangements made for the successful organising of the event. The CM then arrived at Sangam and performed the Ganga aarti. He also visited the Bade Hanuman temple in the Sangam area and performed aarti of the deity. The CM later held an informal meeting with officials of the district administration, especially those associated with organising the Magh Mela-2022. He inquired about the facilities that would be provided by the mela authorities to devotees, Kalpwasis and the seers and instructed officials to follow all the protocol laid down under Covid-19 guidelines. The Prime Minister is expected to visit Sangam City on December 21 and distribute certificates to 2.5 lakh women beneficiaries of various government welfare schemes, including members of self-help groups (SHGs) at the function set to be held at Parade Ground.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/yogi-reviews-preparations-for-pm-s-prayagraj-visit-101639852991538.html
19-12-2021||Other||Agra Metro Rail Project: Casting for first ‘arch girder’ begins||The casting for the first ‘arch girder’ of Agra Metro Project started at the casting yard on Saturday.The Agra Metro Project has recently completed one year since its inauguration and the construction work is on.The Uttar Pradesh Metro Rail Corporation (UPMRC) in a press statement said that an arch girder, as the name suggests, is an arch-shaped and is used for track crossover for the metro train, where u-girders are not used. One arch girder weighs around 165 tons and has a span of 30 metres, said the press release.Speaking on the occasion, MD UPMRC Kumar Keshav said, “I congratulate the team of Agra Metro Project to timely execute casting of the arch girder. The project is being executed with utmost accuracy and highest of standards. We are committed to give the people of Agra a world class metro system in time.”The casting took place in presence of Arvind Kumar Rai, project director, Agra Metro Project and other senior officials of UP Metro in the Bamrauli Katara Casting Yard in Agra.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/agra-metro-rail-project-casting-for-first-arch-girder-begins-101639852511308.html
19-12-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra forms eight mental health review boards||Mumbai: Maharashtra has formed eight Mental Health Review Boards (MHRB) under the mandate of the Mental Healthcare Act (2017), which provides for a review board for each district in the country. Starting February 2022, three of the boards will function from the state’s regional mental hospitals in Thane, Pune and Nagpur, while the other five will operate from Kolhapur, Nashik, Akola, Aurangabad, and Latur. One of the board’s main functions will be to register, review, alter, modify or cancel an advance directive made by an individual. As per the Act, a mentally-ill person shall have the right to make an advance directive that states how he wants to be treated for the illness during a mental health situation and who his nominated representative shall be. Each review board will be helmed by a chief judicial magistrate and include other members such as a medical practitioner, a psychiatrist, two recovered psychiatric patients or care-givers and a representative of the district collector or district magistrate or deputy commissioner among others. “Before the 2017 Act was implemented, if a patient had to be admitted to a mental health facility, the relatives of the care giver would require an order from the magistrate. Now, the patients can be evaluated by the psychiatrists and the admission has to be informed to the review board,” said Dr Vijay Maskar, a medical officer with the Directorate of Health Services. “The board can be approached for appeals, review admissions and look into conflicts if any,” he said adding that prior permission of the board has to be sought in case of a minor or a woman has to undergo Electroconvulsive Therapy (ECT). The state has issued appointment letters to members of the board who were chosen after calling for applications through advertisements followed by interviews.Psychiatrist Dr Bharat Vatwani who has been appointed as the review board member for Thane district said that the boards will serve as checkpoints to ensure that patient’s rights are safeguarded. Dr Sanjay Kumawat, a psychiatrist who practices in Thane and Mulund and has worked with the state health department for nearly three decades expressed concern about the lack of budgeting and the workload as only eight review boards will have to cater to 36 districts in the state. “If implemented thoroughly, the boards will have an important role to play to ensure that patients don’t languish in institutions for a long time. For instance, the boards will have to mandatorily take an update on the number of days a patient spends in a facility and review the situation on a case-to-case basis,” said Kumavat. “We will gradually cover all districts, but for now, we are working to make these eight boards functional from February,” a state health official said. “We are currently working out their remuneration and other logistics for their everyday functioning,” the official said.The law came into force in 2017, repealing an earlier version, and offers wide-ranging protections of rights to persons requiring mental health care and services. According to a study in 2017 in Lancet Psychiatry, 14.3% of India’s population (or 197.3 million people) suffer from mental illness.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-forms-eight-mental-health-review-boards-101639852272796.html
19-12-2021||Other||Covid 3rd wave: Mock drill conducted to check medical preparedness in Varanasi||A mock drill to test medical preparedness in case of a third wave of Covid-19 infection was conducted at six community health centers (CHCs), divisional hospital in Kabirchaura, Pandit Deendayal Upadhyay Government Hospital and Institute Of Medical Sciences-BHU in Varanasi on Saturday.Preparedness of doctors and medical personnel, availability of medicines and functioning of medical equipments were tested during the drill.Shortcomings in preparations for the management of Covid infection were identified and removed on the spot.Superintendent in-charge, divisional hospital Kabir Chaura, Dr Prasanna Kumar said as part of the drill a person who was shown to be Covid infected was brought to the hospital in an ambulance in SSPG Divisional Hospital. It took only four minutes to complete all the procedures related to his treatment. During this, all the concerned doctors and paramedical personnel successfully completed their tasks.Chief Medical Officer Dr Sandeep Chaudhary said that 30 beds equipped with oxygen facility and two ICU beds each have been kept ready at six community health centers including CHC Cholapur, CHC Arajiline, CHC Narpatpur, CHC Gangapur Pindra, CHC Hathi Bazar, CHC Misirpur.Similarly, 64 pediatric beds with oxygen facility have been readied in Deendayal Hospital. Of these 20 are ICU beds. Similarly, pediatric beds with oxygen facility and ICU beds of Covid have been readied in IMS-BHU.Dr Chaudhary informed that joint director Dr MP Singh, who was nominated by the directorate general of Medical Health Services, Lucknow, inspected the mock drill at Deendayal Upadhyay Government Hospital in presence of medical superintendent Dr RK Singh.He said that additional chief medical officer Dr. SS Kanojia at CHC Cholapur, additional chief medical officer Dr AK Maurya at CHC Arajiline, deputy chief medical officer Dr Suresh Singh at CHC Narpatpur and additional chief medical officer Dr AK Gupta at CHC Gangapurand the concerned superintendent inspected the mock drill in Misirpur and Hathi Bazar.In IMS-BHU, mock drill was completed under the supervision of senior medical officer, WHO, Dr Jayashilan and other pediatricians.Dr Atul Singh informed that a total of 23 PSA oxygen plants have been installed in the district and all of these remained functional during the mock drill. According to the covid-19 protocol, the child was examined by doctors and was taken to the ICU bed.The chief medical officer praised all the doctors and medical personnel for the successful operation of the mock drill.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/covid-3rd-wave-mock-drill-conducted-to-check-medical-preparedness-in-varanasi-101639852271444.html
19-12-2021||Other||Gurugram: Work on waste-to-energy plant at Bandhwari to begin in March||kartik.kumar@htlive.comThe construction of waste-to-energy (WTE) plant at Bandhwari will commence in March next year, Ecogreen officials informed the Municipal Corporation of Gurugram (MCG) on Friday. Ecogreen, the subsidiary of a Chinese firm, is the MCG’s concessionaire for the WTE project.The development comes a week after Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar laid the foundation stone for the WTE plant at Bandhwari on December 10.“The construction of the WTE project will commence in March. Our technical experts from China will arrive around this time and oversee the project. We are targeting to complete the project within an 18-month time frame, and meet the December 2023 deadline set by the MCG,” said Sanjeev Sharma, spokesperson, Ecogreen.According to MCG officials, during a Swachh Survekshan 2022 meeting held at the civic body’s Sector 34 office on Friday, MCG commissioner Mukesh Kumar Ahuja asked Ecogreen for an update on the WTE project, to which the company said that the construction can only commence in March next year as they need technical experts from China to come to Gurugram and oversee the project.However, the MCG officials said that they will meet the December 2023 deadline for the project. The WTE plant has a capacity of producing 25 megawatts on a daily basis and will have two boilers, each with a processing capacity of 750 tonnes per day, they said.During the meeting, the Ecogreen officials divulged that they will be setting up material recovery facilities at three locations across the city while the MCG is in process of setting two such facilities.An MCG official seeking anonymity said that Subhash Yadav, district forest officer and the nodal officer for MCG’s environment wing, revealed in the meeting that to convert horticulture waste into compost, the MCG has set up composting units at four locations in Palam Vihar, Basai, Sector 15 part 1, and Sector 44, The MCG commissioner said that composting units should be set up in all 800 municipal parks and a letter in this regard should be written to the ward committee or the RWA maintaining the park.The municipal commissioner also directed officials that for each road in the city, a mechanised sweeping machine should be allocated, so as to ensure dust and dirt collection is minimal. The MCG has 13 mechanised sweeping machines. “While reviewing sweeping machines’ operations in the meeting, the MCG commissioner said that if dirt is found on the road, the operator of the sweeping machine working on that road will be held responsible,” said SS Rohilla, public relations officer, MCG.Regarding the condition of ponds in the city, the MCG officials said that of the 72 water bodies in the city, beautification work on 29 is ongoing, and preparing the estimates for the rest is in process. Ahuja directed the officials to complete all procedures by January 31 next year and start beautification work on an immediate basis. He also set a deadline of December 31 to repair all damaged public toilets in the city.
19-12-2021||Noida||NHAI finalises toll rates for meerut e-way, ₹140 for 1-way travel by car||The National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) has finalised the toll rates for the Delhi-Meerut Expressway (DME), which would come into effect from December 25. The 59.77km-long expressway, starting from Sarai Kale Khan in Delhi to Kashi toll plaza in Meerut, was made fully operational for commuters in April. NHAI officials said vehicles, such as jeeps/cars, will be charged ₹140 for travelling the entire distance (on one side) from Sarai Kale Khan to Kashi toll plaza while the toll rate would be somewhere between ₹225 and ₹900 for different categories of light and heavy commercial vehicles for plying on the same stretch. According to the toll rate chart, the per kilometre distance for the entire stretch (one side) would be about ₹2.34. “The DME has entry points at Sarai Kale Khan, Indirapuram, Dundahera, Dasna, Rasoolpur-Sikrod, Bhojpur and Kashi toll plaza. The toll will be directly deducted from the bank accounts of commuters, whose vehicles are fitted with FASTags. Such vehicles will be detected with the help of the automatic number plate readers (ANPRs) installed at the entry/exit exit points,” said Arvind Kumar, project director of NHAI. In case of vehicles which do not have Fastags, the authority will recover double the toll at the exit points. Earlier in February, the Union government had made it mandatory for all vehicles to be linked to the FASTag system, which enables a vehicle to pass through toll plazas without having to pay toll in cash and cut traffic queues. “If a car travels full distance, its owner will have to pay ₹140 for covering one side of the expressway. If it returns within 24 hours, the toll rate for the return journey will be halved. The rates will come into effect from December 25. Commuters will not have to pay any toll for the routes which have not been mentioned in the rate chart,” added Kumar. One such route mentioned in the rate chart is Sarai Kale Khan, for which toll rates have been fixed for exit to only three points at Rasoolpur-Sikrod, Bhojpur and Kashi toll plaza. No rates have been defined for exit at Indirapuram, Dundahera and Dasna in Ghaziabad. According to NHAI, the annual toll collection on the expressway is estimated to be about ₹111.39 crore with cars/jeeps/light motor vehicles accounting for about 82% of the revenue and buses/trucks etc accounting for the remaining 14%. The DME has three phases — Phase 1 links Sarai Kale Khan in Delhi and UP Gate in Ghaziabad; Phase 2 connects UP Gate and Dasna in Ghaziabad while Phase 4 connects Dasna to Meerut. Phase 4 is a six-lane 32-km access-controlled alignment between Dasna and Meerut. According to official estimates, Phase 1 caters to about 120,000 passenger car units (PCUs) per day while Phase 2 caters to about 60,000 PCUs per day. Phase 4 caters to about 40,000 PCUs. Officials said no two-wheelers, three-wheelers or slow-moving vehicles will be allowed on expressway lanes. The inner three lanes on each side have been dedicated as expressway lanes under the DME project.
