20-12-2021||Pune||Recruitment scam: 16 suspended, 22 chargesheeted by Pune Zilla Parishad||PUNE Pune Zilla Parishad, on Monday, announced that 16 officials who had been involved in the recruitment scam spanning 20 gram panchayats were suspended from services with immediate effect. The ZP has also chargesheeted 22 officials involved in this matter and has issued notices to 212 former Panchayat Raj elected members from the concerned villages. This action by the ZP was prompted by the submission of the report by the enquiry committee appointed to investigate allegations of improper recruitment of staff members to 20 gram panchayats, just prior to the villages being included in the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) limits. “The report with the list of employees has been submitted to Pune Municipal Corporation for further action. A copy of the report has also been submitted to the Rural Development and Panchayati Raj department of the Government of Maharashtra. Administrative action has been carried out in the Pune Zilha Parishad and departmental enquiry hearings would be held at the Divisional Commissioner’s office, as per the law,” said Ayush Prasad, chief executive officer, Pune Zilla Parishad. In December 2020, the state government issued a draft notification for the merger of 23 villages into PMC limits, after which major recruitments were carried out in the gram panchayats of most of the 20 villages. According to officials, 658 persons were recruited just before these gram panchayats became part of Pune PMC. Also, 44 persons were found to have been recruited by the Manjri Gram Panchayat in an earlier inquiry by the Block Development Officer of Haveli. Gradually the reports of improper recruitments came into the public sphere and the ZP also received few complaints. On June 30, the state government officially merged 23 villages in the PMC, making it the biggest municipal corporation in Maharashtra, with an area of 516 sqkm. An enquiry committee, headed by Dattatraya Munde, was then appointed by the ZP to investigate allegations of improper recruitment of staff members to gram panchayats. The committee started working in July 2020 collecting records from every gram panchayat. The final report was submitted to the ZP on December 17. ZP officials said that of the 23 villages merged with the PMC, no irregularities were found in Pisoli, Shewalewadi and Mahalunge. “A total of 69 employees from these 20 gram panchayats were on their approved Akruti Bandh, 247 persons were recruited earlier and have been working since a long time. But, 658 persons were recruited just before the merger. I would like to appreciate the enquiry committee for showing courage in the face of tremendous pressure and different forms of intimidation. They worked diligently and very hard to study the documents of 60,000 pages,” said Ayush Prasad. According to a member from this enquiry committee, every gram panchayat in question had to be investigated in a different way. Gram sevaks and elected representatives had adopted different methods to make the payments of these new improperly recruited staffers. “In seven gram panchayats, we found that gram sevaks had recruited their own sons. The family members of the elected representatives had also found place in the recruitment list. Different methods were adopted to hide the salary payment records of these staffers. We had to check every document. It was all done so that eventually these staffers would be employees of the Pune Municipal Corporation,” said a committee member, on the condition of anonymity. Though the enquiry report has been submitted and action has been initiated against those who are guilty, the enquiry committee hasn’t been able to verify allegations that the recruitments were done in exchange for money. The committee in its report has asked the administration to carry out this probe by a suitable investigation agency and has mentioned that the allegations could not be verified because this matter was not in its jurisdiction. Pune ZP has sent this report to PMC and now that these villages have been merged with the civic body it would take a decision on the future of the improperly recruited staffers in the Gram Panchayats. “We haven’t received the report yet. We will decide once we get it with proper details and lists,” said Rajendra Muthe, deputy commissioner PMC .23 villages merged with PMC Mhalunge, Sus, Bavdhan Budruk, Kirkatwadi, Pisoli, Kondhwe-Dhawade, New Kopre, Nanded, Khadakwasla, Manjari Budruk, Narhe, Mantarwadi, Holkarwadi, Autade-Handewadi, Wadachiwadi, Shewalewadi, Nandoshi , Mangdewadi , Bhilarewadi, Gujar Nimbalkarwadi, Jambhulwadi, Kolewadi and Wagholi. • Recruitment scam related action not initiated in Shewalewadi, Mhalunge, Pisoli 11 villages merged with PMC in 2017 Lohegaon, Mundhwa, Hadapsar, Uttamnagar, Shivane, Ambegaon Khurd, Undri, Dhayari, Ambegaon Budhruk, Phursungi and Urli Devachi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/recruitment-scam-16-suspended-22-chargesheeted-by-pune-zilla-parishad-101640024848219.html
20-12-2021||Pune||Deliberations ongoing for a global treaty to deal with future pandemics: WHO chief scientist||PUNE Amid the unabated spread of the Omicron variant of the SARS-CoV2 virus, World Health Organisation (WHO) Chief Scientist Dr Soumya Swaminathan on Monday said that discussions are taking place at the global level on whether there is need for an international treaty to effectively combat future pandemics.A few weeks ago the World Health Assembly (WHA) in a Special Session met to draft and negotiate a WHO convention, agreement, or an international instrument on pandemic prevention, preparedness and response.Addressing the opening ceremony of the seminar of Panex-21, WHO Chief Scientist said, “Some of the discussions that are now happening at the global level are about whether we should have a global pandemic treaty that binds all countries into certain types of behaviour just like we have rules around atomic use of nuclear energy.”“The use of biological weapons is not permitted and there are global conventions and agreements in the area of health,” she added.Citing the example of the WHO Framework Convention on Tobacco Control, Dr Swaminathan said the convention took many years to negotiate but ultimately it established rules around tobacco control, which has resulted in a significant reduction in tobacco consumption.“That is a good example of an international treaty that will be possible for dealing with the future pandemic,” WHO Chief Scientist added.Earlier this month, the WHA had agreed to kickstart a global process to draft and negotiate a convention, an agreement under the Constitution of the WHO to strengthen pandemic prevention, preparedness and response.This was decision is aimed at protecting the world from future infectious diseases crises.Dr Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus, WHO Director-General had said the decision by the World Health Assembly was historic in nature, vital in its mission, and represented a once-in-a-generation opportunity to strengthen the global health architecture to protect and promote the well-being of all people.Panex-21 is a multi-nation disaster management exercise organised by the Indian Army with a special focus on relief in the backdrop of the Covid-19 pandemic. Bangladesh, Bhutan, Nepal, Sri Lanka, Myanmar, Thailand and India- BIMSTEC countries are among those participating in the event.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/deliberations-ongoing-for-a-global-treaty-to-deal-with-future-pandemics-who-chief-scientist-101640024552284.html
20-12-2021||Pune||Covid-19 pandemic not yet over, says Army chief General Naravane||PUNE Army chief of staff General M M Naravane on Monday said that the outbreak of Covid-19 has taught everyone many lessons and that disaster management against the backdrop of the pandemic is a reality and a major challenge, since the pandemic is not yet over. General Naravane stressed the importance of global and regional cooperation while tackling any pandemic-like situation Speaking at the inauguration of PANEX-21, a trans-national, multi-agency exercise organised in Pune from December 20-22 with a focused aim to “foster jointness and develop capabilities in disaster management aspects for the BIMSTEC (Bay of Bengal Initiative for Multi-Sectoral Technical and Economic Cooperation) nations”. The Army chief said the fact is that the pandemic is not over as new variants have added realism to the conduct of this exercise. The South Asian region is prone to a large range of natural hazards, including floods, droughts, cyclones, earthquakes, landslides, and tsunami, he noted. “Rapidly growing unplanned urbanisation, ecological degradation, and corresponding climate change effects and dynamically varying socio-economic conditions have increased our exposure to various natural hazards,” he said. All have witnessed the rising frequency of disasters with more intense and catastrophic events, he pointed out. “Our response strategies have also evolved aided by rapid improvements in technology, and have become more robust and resilient. Trans-national cooperation between BIMSTEC nations continues to be driven by common and shared challenges,” he said. The pandemic has overwhelmed the national capacity, disrupted the supply chain, and brought everyone back to the drawing board, he said. “Disaster management in the backdrop of the pandemic is a reality and a major challenge and this also forms a basic theme of PANEX-21,” he said. The earlier exercise was conducted in February 2020, in the early days of the pandemic, General Naravane said. “A lot has changed since then. The devastating effects of the pandemic have been witnessed and acknowledged by the world. We have realised that our standard operating procedures which worked well in the past are no longer active and we would need transformative changes,” he said. It was realised that resource preservation in the times of pandemic is as challenging as an application for disaster management, the Army chief said. He said it has become incumbent for the response teams to first protect themselves before being able to assess others. “We have also come to accept that no single agency has the capability or capacity to handle the challenge on their own. Not only that, such has been the strain on the resources that even well-developed countries with modern infrastructure have looked beyond for aid and assistance,” he said. PANEX-21 is unique as it is for the first time the exercise of this magnitude has been undertaken to review the mechanism and streamline the response strategy in the backdrop of pandemics, he said. The BIMSTEC regional organisation comprises Bangladesh, Bhutan, Myanmar, Nepal, Sri Lanka and Thailand, besides India. (With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/covid19-pandemic-not-yet-over-says-army-chief-general-naravane-101640024313146.html
20-12-2021||Pune||Exam fee waiver for SSC, HSC students who lost parent due to Covid||PUNE On Monday, the Maharashtra State Board of Secondary and Higher Secondary Education (MSBSHSE) issued a notification wherein exam fees of students from Class 10 and Class 12 who lost parent(s) due to Covid will be waived.According to the notification, Dr Ashok Bhosale, secretary of MSBSHSE, said, “Many students of Secondary School Certificate (SSC) and Higher Secondary Certificate (HSC) have lost their parents or legal guardians due to the pandemic. Exam fees for such students will be completely waived off for the annual examination which will be conducted in 2022. This fee waiver will be a special exception for students for this year.” Last week, Maharashtra education minister, Varsha Gaikwad declared the dates for final examinations for Class 10 and Class 12 in 2022.“Class 12 HSC oral exams will take place between February 14 and March 3, while written papers will be conducted from March 4 to April 7, 2022. And Class 10 SSC oral exams will be conducted from February 24 to March 14, and written exams will take place between March 15 and April 18, 2022. The final examination will be held offline,” said the minister.Date extended to fill form On Monday, the State board issued another notification wherein dates to submit the exam forms for Class 10 have been extended.“The dates for exam form submission have been extended from December 27 to January 1, with late fees. Forms can be downloaded and payment of form fee can be done till January 6,” said the notification.Maharashtra State board issued a notification on Monday regarding the dates of Class 10 and Class 12 examination scheduled for March - April of 2022. The detailed time table for each subject will be published on the website www.mahahsscboard.com from December 21. “The timetable on the website is for the information for the students. The students should relay on the detailed timetable handed out to the schools and colleges and crosscheck the dates of examinations before hand,” said Dr Bhosale.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/exam-fee-waiver-for-ssc-hsc-students-who-lost-parent-due-to-covid-101640024008718.html
20-12-2021||Pune||Ajit Pawar okays Sambhaji Maharaj memorial at Vadhu Budruk||PUNE Deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar, on Monday, gave an in-principle approval for construction of a grand memorial to commemorate the history of Chhatrapati Sambhaji Maharaj at Vadhu Budruk in Pune. According to Ajit Pawar, the memorial of Chhatrapati Sambhaji Maharaj “should be glorious, commemorating his workmanship, befitting his personality and magnificent in terms of its structure.Chhatrapati Sambhaji Maharaj is the second Chhatrapati of the Maratha Empire who ruled from 1681 to 1689 and was the eldest son of Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj. Vadhu Budruk is a village in Shirur tehsil of Pune district. Ajit Pawar further said that a competition should be organised for the design of the monument to select the best design. Pawar instructed the district administration to work with the locals and take them into confidence while designing the project.A meeting was held under the chairmanship of Ajit Pawar, at which tourism minister Aaditya Thackeray, MLA Ashok Pawar, additional chief secretary of Finance Manoj Sounik, Pune Divisional Commissioner Saurabh Rao, District Collector Rajesh Deshmukh, Pune Zilla Parishad CEO Ayush Prasad, and Pune Rural Superintendent of Police Abhinav Deshmukh were present, among others.Hundreds of thousands of people visit Vadhu Budruk every year to pay homage at the Samadhi of Chhatrapati Sambhaji Maharaj. Pawar further directed that utmost care should be taken to ensure proper facilities for those who come for darshan. “Development work in the area preserving the sanctity of Chhatrapati Sambhaji Maharaj’s samadhi, with the consent of all, should be done in a grand manner,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/ajit-pawar-okays-sambhaji-maharaj-memorial-at-vadhu-budruk-101640023769776.html
20-12-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra to implement graded response action plan to combat air pollution||Mumbai: The Maharashtra government has planned to implement an emergency response system, similar to Graded Response Action Plan (GRAP) in Delhi to combat air pollution. This will be done in non-attainment cities that consistently fail to meet the National Ambient Air Quality Standards (NAAQS) for PM 10 (Particulate matter that is 10 microns or less in diameter) or NO2 (Nitrogen Dioxide). The Maharashtra Pollution Control Board (MPCB) drafted this plan and shared it with Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) along with other eligible local bodies in September 2020. According to officials, this is likely to be implemented in time for next year’s pollution cycle.The GRAP is a set of measures that are triggered in phases as air quality deteriorates. For example, when the Air Quality Index (AQI) in Delhi-NCR hits the ‘severe’ category, concerning municipal corporations in Delhi, Haryana and Uttar Pradesh impose bans on polluting activities such as construction, operation of cement mix plants and running diesel generators, and step-up patrolling for open burning. The sprinkling of water and road-sweeping to control dust pollution are also activities triggered under the GRAP every winter in the National Capital Region (NCR), when air quality hits the ‘very poor’ AQI category.MPCB has categorised air quality in four stages (from ‘moderate’ to ‘emergency’) based on the daily concentration of particulate matter pollutants PM2.5 and PM10. In Delhi, the pollution control measures range from dust sweeping during ‘moderate’ conditions to imposing odd-even vehicle rationing schemes and blanket bans on construction work when pollution levels touch ‘severe’ classification. These gradations, and the actions mandated under them, are uniform across Maharashtra and will be implemented by municipal bodies when air quality remains within a category for 48 hours.The GRAP will be implemented in 25 non-attainment cities and five cantonment boards across the state. A senior MPCB official informed, “All municipal corporations and councils of non-attainment cities in Maharashtra have been given a copy of the GRAP. They have been told to take appropriate action for the improvement of air quality by implementing it, but this has not happened yet. It is up to the Urban Local Bodies (ULB)s to start doing so. The MPCB will act as the regulator of this plan and seek daily reports from the environment departments of the implementing ULBs.”The official further informed that in a coastal city like Mumbai, where winters are very mild, there may never be a situation when air quality touches the ‘emergency’ category. But in cities like Pune, or further west like Nashik and Nagpur, where winters are much intense, GRAP will play an important role in curbing air pollution.Sunil Godse, who heads the BMC’s environment wing, said that GRAP will be put through a public consultation process in the last week of February 2022, as part of the Mumbai Climate Action Plan which is being developed in partnership with the World Resources Institute (India). “Once the graded action goes through the public consultation process, we will begin implementing it. It should be operational in time for next year’s pollution cycle in Mumbai,” Godse said.The GRAP, which was first implemented in Delhi-NCR in 2017 — at the instruction of the now-defunct Supreme Court-appointment Environmental Pollution Control Authority (EPCA) — has seen little success in north India, where cities like Delhi, Faridabad, Gurugram, Noida, Ghaziabad, Sonipat, continue to see high levels of air pollution during the winter.“The problem with the GRAP is that it is a reactive measure, not pre-emptive. In Delhi-NCR, which has a vast airshed and where the meteorological conditions are not favourable for dispersal, the GRAP has not shown much efficacy. But in cities across Maharashtra, you see a lot more regional variation in pollution levels, and there is a chance that the GRAP may show measurable impact. It will depend entirely on implementation, and ideally should be accompanied by a forecasting system so you can start implementing the measures before the air quality deteriorates irrevocably,” said Sachin Pawar, an independent air quality scientist certified by the Quality Council of India under the union environment ministry.Dr SN Tripathi, an atmospheric scientist at IIT-Kanpur and member of the Steering Committee of the National Clean Air Programme (NCAP), said, “The Maharashtra government is very progressive in its approach to air pollution. But, indeed, the GRAP in Delhi has not had much measurable impact on the overall air quality. It’s a step in the right direction, but every city has widely different sources of air pollution and meteorological conditions, and it would be beneficial for Maharashtra to tailor this policy toward the local realities of its non-attainment cities rather than impose it as a blanket policy.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-to-implement-graded-response-action-plan-to-combat-air-pollution-101640023589106.html
20-12-2021||Lucknow||Luckowites seek relief from pollution with air-purifying plants||The high pollution level in the state capital and smog has attracted the attention of citizens towards indoor plants that are said to have high air purifying properties. The nurseries in Lucknow have reported rise in sale of plants such as peace lily, snake plant, syngonium, areca palm, aglaonema, monster and rubber plants. The air quality index in the city remains as poor and severe. Since the lockdown sales of plants have registered substantial growth but it has seen a rapid growth due to social media awareness, says Sandeep Rai who runs a nursery in Mahanagar. “After lockdown the online sale portal propagated a lot about benefits of plants and the NASA survey in which they had named few plants with high air purifying properties and the toxins they remove. It’s a known fact that plants give oxygen and along with it brings us close to nature, gives a feeling of happiness which has given rise to this fad,” says Rai.Ardent plant lover and educationist Shalini Singh has planted several air-purifying at home. “My me time is being with my little green world that we have created at our balcony as we don’t have gardening space. Areca palm, peace lily, marble queen, aloe vera, snake plant, syngonium, dracaena and aglaonema which are said have air-purifying qualities besides many other flowering and ornamental plants adorn my home,” she says.Play House school principal Shabnam Kapur, who started Arjun Nursery in her son’s memory, too vouched for the trend. “We had a dumpyard at the back of our school that we converted into a nursery for kids to remain close to nature, learn and prepare plants that eventually purchased by parents. Flowering plants are fast-selling in winters but plants which are high on air-purifying now more in demand. We know about the oxygen emitting property of plant and with that it gives happiness and keeps us close to nature,” she says.Gokul, the gardener at her nursery adds, “Bahut log oxygen wale ped mangne aate hai. Kafi saare to pehle bilkul nahi biktey they par ab sabko spider plant, peace lily aur areca palm chahiye.”Shachi Singh, who runs social enterprise Nature’s Gift and promotes rooftop farming, calls it a small step toward self reliance. “How long will we blame others for everything! We need to cut pollution, promote greenery and rooftop farming is an option where we can and it’s a step towards being self-dependence, healthy living and being close to nature. I am happy that people are slowly but becoming aware,” she says.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/luckowites-seek-relief-from-pollution-with-air-purifying-plants-101640023528844.html
20-12-2021||Pune||Prices of tomato, brinjal spike as farmers claim crops destroyed by December rain||PUNE Non-seasonal rains early in December have damaged vegetable crops as a result of which retail rates have now spiked, especially in the prices of tomato and brinjal.The rates of brinjal, which do not cross ₹60 per kg, surged to ₹80-90 per kg in retail markets, while tomatoes which are generally below ₹40 per kg are now retailing for ₹60 per kg.In some areas of the city – tomatoes are being sold at ₹70 per kg.“Last week there was a shortage of vegetables. This week the condition is better, however, the rates are expected to remain high as many farmers have suffered damages due to unseasonal rains. The wholesale rates have gone up by 20%,” said Vilas Bhujbal, president, Market Yard Commission Agents.“Along with the damage caused by the unseasonal rains, due to marriage season and less supply, tomato and brinjal rates are high,” added Bhujbal.For the last two years, Pune district has been getting rains in November and December and it has impacted the rates of vegetables.“Generally, during winter, it is expected that vegetable rates remain stable, but these trend has changed in the last two years in Pune district due to rains. The unseasonal rain has caused heavy damages to all vegetables and also to fruits like strawberries. We have not seen ample strawberries coming in to the city till now this year,” added Bhujbal.In the wholesale market – a bag of 10kg brinjals costs around ₹600-800, while tomato is trading for between Rs150 to Rs300 for 10kg.Shalmali Rege, resident of Sinhgad road said, “In winter season, tomato rates never go up like it is happening now. We used to make tomato ketchup at home, purchasing tomatoes at ₹10-15 per kg a couple of years back. For the last two years we have stopped making it because the price is crossing ₹40 per kg.”“Rates are fluctuating every day in Sahakar nagar. Rates are Rs20 less in the afternoon, but it increases in the evenings. Most vegetable vendors keep the rates the same, if one can bargain then it is your luck, otherwise you have to pay extra,” said Sayali Shinde, a school teacher who stays near Sahakar nagar.Chandu Bisure, vegetable vendor from Ideal colony, Kothrud said, “There was a shortage of brinjal and tomato last week in the wholesale market so rates have gone up.”Leafy vegetablesWith fewer trucks of leafy vegetables coming into market yard, rates have gone up. “A 30 per cent rise has been noticed in leafy vegetables. The rates of methi and spinach are stable. High rates are expected to remain the same for next week,” added Bhujbal. “The rates are expected to remain high till Makar Sankranti (January 14), supply increases during this time and rates start to stabilise,” added Bhujbal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/prices-of-tomato-brinjal-spike-as-farmers-claim-crops-destroyed-by-december-rain-101640023470163.html
20-12-2021||Delhi||Delhi pollution: Construction ban over but dust control a priority, says Rai||New Delhi: Following directions from the Commission for Air Quality Management (CAQM) in NCR, Delhi environment minister Gopal Rai on Monday said the government has issued a notification to immediately lift the ban on construction and demolition activities and entry of trucks into the city, but added that firms need to strictly adhere to 14-point dust guidelines issued by the Delhi government. Rai also said that the government’s campaigns against dust pollution and open burning will continue, and teams will further undertake night patrolling to ensure dust norms are being followed in the Capital.The 14-point guidelines include measures such as setting up anti-smog gun for sites measuring over 20,000 square metres, sprinkling water to settle dust, covering construction material with tarpaulin, and cleaning up after the entry and exit of supply trucks, among others.“If a construction company is found violating any of the 14 rules, firm action will be taken against the company and the site in question will also be sealed if needed. Hence, it is my appeal to all agencies involved in C&D (construction and demolition) work to not take unfair advantage or be careless now that the ban has been lifted,” said Rai on Monday.He further asked people to report any violations on the Green Delhi app.“Pollution levels in Delhi had increased considerably post-Diwali and we were recording ‘severe’ air. Keeping this in mind, all construction and demolition (C&D) works were banned in Delhi, with only activities of national importance allowed to continue. All trucks entering Delhi, barring those involved in essential services, were also banned, but with Delhi’s AQI not touching severe in the last 10 days, these bans have been lifted immediately,” said Rai on Monday.Rai added the government’s anti-dust campaign and its anti-open burning campaign are still in place, with agencies such as the PWD, the corporations, and the fire brigade continuing sprinkling of water.“These campaigns and drives are continuing and it is my appeal to the people of Delhi that while some of the emergency measures we had taken to tackle pollution are now being relaxed, we still have to work towards improving the air quality in Delhi for which we need everyone’s cooperation,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-pollution-construction-ban-over-but-dust-control-a-priority-says-rai-101640023468243.html
20-12-2021||Lucknow||UP govt seeks guidance over NISHAD Party’s SC quota demand||The Uttar Pradesh government on Monday shot off a letter to the Registrar General of India and the Census Commissioner of India seeking guidance over the reservation to the Nishad community under Scheduled Caste (SC) category.The Nirbal Indian Shoshit Hamara Aam Dal (NISHAD) Party chief Dr Sanjay Nishad, an ally of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) in the 2022 UP assembly election, has raised the demand for the inclusion of Nishad, Majhwar, Kewat and Mallah communities in the Scheduled Caste category and reservation for them in government jobs accordingly.Union home minister Amit Shah had assured the Nishad community to fulfil their demands and resolve all the problems in the joint rally of the NISHAD Party and the BJP held on Ramabai Ambedkar ground in Lucknow on December 17. There, the NISHAD Party chief Sanjay Nishad had handed over a memorandum to chief Minister Yogi Adityanath demanding reservation to the Nishad community under the SC category.A state government spokesperson said, special secretary, UP government Rajnish Chandra has sent the letter to the registrar general and the census commissioner in which he has drawn the attention of both the authorities towards the Majhwar caste which is mentioned at number 53 in the list of scheduled castes of the Uttar Pradesh government.The memorandum of NISHAD Party chief has also been attached with the letter in which Sanjay Nishad has stated that Majhi, Majhwar, Kewat, Mallah and Nishad surnames are used by people of Majhwar caste in different areas of the state. “Due to the use of various surnames, they are not issued SC certificates whereas other SC people using various surnames are getting benefits meant for SC members,” he said. “Dr Sanjay Nishad has demanded that all the people with surname of Majhwar caste should also be given Scheduled Caste certificates,” the spokesperson added.Reacting to the letter, Dr Sanjay Nishad said, “The party thanks the BJP leadership and chief minister Yogi Adityanath to fulfil the long pending demands of the Nishad community. The Nishad community has been fighting for justice since long. The reservation to the Nishad community under SC category was one of the main demands of the NISHAD Party.” Replying to a question, Sanjay Nishad said the Nishad community leaders who joined the SP on Monday were expelled from the party in 2019 on the charges of indiscipline and anti-party activities.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/up-govt-seeks-guidance-over-nishad-party-s-sc-quota-demand-101640023408295.html
20-12-2021||Mumbai||HC asks MSRTC employees to consider problems of rural students||Mumbai: The Bombay high court (HC) on Monday expressed hope that the Maharashtra State Road Transport Corporation (MSRTC) employees still on strike would consider the inconvenience being caused to 12 lakh students in rural areas and resume duty as a court appointed three-member committee looked to resolve the significant issues raised by them. Since October 27, 96,000 employees of MSRTC across Maharashtra have been on strike, seeking a merger of the cash-strapped body with the state government — a move that the state transport minister Anil Parab has said would need consideration and time. After the state moved court asking the employees to end their strike, the HC on November 8 directed the state to form a committee that would look into the employees’ grievances. The HC on Monday was informed that while the committee had managed to get the issue of payables and dues ironed out, it was yet to consider the issue of merger. The committee said it hoped to arrive at an amicable solution within the three-month deadline given by court. The division bench of justice Prasanna Varale and justice S M Modak was hearing the writ petition and contempt petition filed by the MSRTC and the interim applications filed by the employees. Advocate S C Naidu representing the state submitted that the wages of the employees had been hiked based on their employment with the corporation and the dues till the month of November had been paid. A few weeks ago, the government announced that it will hike the salaries by 41% and raise the basic pay of all employees. However, thousands of employees are still agitating over the issue of merger, which they hope will be a permanent solution to payment delays and permit greater job security.Advocate S U Kamdar, representing MSRTC, while responding to a query of the court on whether the employees had resumed duty submitted that only 3,000 employees had resumed duty and out of the 13,000 rounds a day (plying between start-point and destination), the corporation was able to complete only 2,500. As a result, commuters especially from the rural areas were suffering and were getting fleeced by private service providers. “We are expecting the committee to give a commitment on when they will hear our demand for merger of MSRTC employees with state government employees,” advocate Gunaratan Sadavarte, representing the employees said. He added that the issue of employee suicide on account of non-payment of salaries before the strike also needed to be addressed, and the number now stood at 54. He said that the court needed to ensure the welfare of the employees too. After hearing the submissions the court said that as per news reports, students were suffering due to lack of the cheapest mode of transport and asked Sadavarte whether he was cognizant of the suffering of the students community. The bench added the issue needed to be argued more and posted hearing to December 22.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/hc-asks-msrtc-employees-to-consider-problems-of-rural-students-101640023229925.html
20-12-2021||Other||Agra road renamed after VHP leader Ashok Singhal||Agra The ‘Ghatiya Azam Khan Road’ was formally renamed as Sri Ashok Singhal Marg’ after the former Vishwa Hindu Parishad (VHP) leader Ashok Singhal, who was born in a house located on this road in Agra. Inaugurating the renamed road on Sunday evening, mayor of Agra, Naveen Jain said, “It is part of the process to change the names of places that are reminiscent of periods of slavery and it will continue.” VHP’s Prant Upadhayaksh Sunil Parashar was also present on the occasion. Jain had earlier also got the name changed of Mughal Road to Maharaja Agrasen Marg, after the much-respected personality among Vaishya community in Agra. Similarly, the name of Sultanganj Pulia in Agra city was changed as ‘Vikal Chowk’ after the name of former BJP MLA from Agra North, late Satya Prakash Vikal. “The changing of name is the tribute to late Ashok Singhal, who led the VHP’s agitation for construction of Ram Temple in Ayodhya, in 1984 and now his dream has been fulfilled by our Prime Minister Narendra Modi and chief minister Yogi Aditya Nath, who paved the way for construction of the Ram Temple,” said Jain while addressing the gathering on the occasion. “We got the proposal passed in Nagar Nigam house and name of the road connecting Ghatiya crossing and Agra City station was changed. It will now be known as Shri Ashok Singhal Marg,” said the mayor.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/agra-road-renamed-after-vhp-leader-ashok-singhal-101640023170529.html
20-12-2021||Pune||Covid-19 vaccines can be tweaked for protection against new variants: AIIMS director Dr Randeep Guleria||PUNE The COVID-19 vaccines can be “tweaked” to provide protection against new variants of the virus, All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS), Delhi, Director Dr Randeep Guleria has said.His remarks have come in the wake of concerns over the new Omicron variant of COVID-19. “Although there is this new variant of COVID-19, the silver lining is that it does seem to be a milder disease and we should have protection as far as the vaccine is concerned. And I think it is important to remember that vaccines can be tweaked,” Dr Guleria here said on Sunday.“We will have second generation vaccines. This is something which we need to keep in mind. The current vaccines are effective but with new variants, they will decrease on immunity, however vaccines can be tweaked,” he added.He was speaking at the Dr V S Prayag Memorial Oration 2021 organised here in Maharashtra by the Association of Physicians of India. Every year, a new vaccine (for diseases in general) is created based on surveillance data provided by the World Health Organisation (WHO), therefore it is easier to do it, Dr Guleria said.While Omicron was first reported in South Africa on November 24, India’s first two cases of this heavily mutated version of the coronavirus were detected in Karnataka on December 2. Till Sunday, 153 cases of Omicron were reported in India.According to central and state officials, the Omicron cases have been detected in 11 states and Union Territories -- Maharashtra (54), Delhi (22), Rajasthan (17) and Karnataka (14), Telangana (20), Gujarat (11), Kerala (11), Andhra Pradesh (1), Chandigarh (1), Tamil Nadu (1) and West Bengal (1).Earlier this year, the Delta variant of the coronavirus was primarily responsible for the deadly second wave of the COVID-19 pandemic in the country. PTI||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/covid19-vaccines-can-be-tweaked-for-protection-against-new-variants-aiims-director-dr-randeep-guleria-101640023168889.html
20-12-2021||Lucknow||Rise in Covid cases: 4,000 beds in Lko hospitals ready for use||LUCKNOW: With rise in Covid-19 cases, district health department has identified 4,000 beds in different hospitals that can immediately be used for admitting Covid patients in case of need. “In all, 4,000 beds in different hospitals have been notified. About 5,000 more beds can be obtained within two-three days. These beds have not been notified yet, but can be taken for Covid patients’ treatment,” said a senior health official. Over 8,000 hospital beds are linked to the dashboard of the Integrated Covid Command Centre (ICCC) and their real-time status can be seen with patient details and admission status. Hospitals too have marked the Covid beds on their campuses. “We have set aside Covid beds and can admit patients for upto 300 beds on our campus,” said Dr Alok Srivastava, director of Balrampur hospital. During the second wave of Covid in April last year, over 8,000 beds were reserved for Covid patients with maximum 988 at the King George’s Medical University (KGMU). This included many private hospitals too, where Covid wards were made and treatment of patients was done. “Private hospitals will again play a key role as they did during the first and second wave of Covid. At least 3,000 general beds and upto 500 ICU beds can be made available at different private hospitals in the state capital,” said Dr Abhishek Shukla, secretary general of Association of International Doctors. Major hospitals which had Covid facilities earlier in Lucknow, included KGMU (988 beds), PGI (230), Lok Bandhu (150), Balrampur (300) and Dr Ram Manohar Lohia Institute of Medical Sciences (200). KGMU had prepared 150 additional paediatric Covid beds soon after the second wave got over.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/rise-in-covid-cases-4-000-beds-in-lko-hospitals-ready-for-use-101640022874756.html
20-12-2021||Pune||Retired HC judge to conduct inquiry into promotions given to junior engineers in PMC||PUNE The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) will conduct an inquiry into promotions given to junior engineers recently, after allegations made by the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP).Additional municipal commissioner Ravindra Binwade said, “As there are allegations and objections about the process and educational qualifications of the junior engineers in the civic body, the PMC will conduct inquiry of whole process. This inquiry will be done by a retired high court judge.”Recently, the PMC appointed 40 engineers from the existing PMC employees. It was found that 18 of them had submitted a diploma from the JRN university in Rajasthan. When Prakash Jawadekar was human resource minister, he had cancelled all the degrees and diplomas from JRN college on December 18, 2017.AAP members alleged that many of the candidates who were selected for the post of junior engineer were directly related to either the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) or the Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) and one of the selected candidates is working with the mayor’s office.According to PMC officials, the issue has now become controversial and many documentary proofs are being cited, hence the civic body has decided to conduct the inquiry.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/retired-hc-judge-to-conduct-inquiry-into-promotions-given-to-junior-engineers-in-pmc-101640022867991.html
20-12-2021||Lucknow||Lakhimpur violence: Ashish Mishra’s second bail plea rejected||District and sessions judge, Lakhimpur Kheri, Mukesh Mishra on Monday rejected the second bail application of Union minister of state for home Ajay Mishra Teni’s son Ashish Mishra, the main accused in the Tikunia violence case, after his counsel urged the court not to press upon it.Giving this information, district government counsel (DGC) Arvind Tripathi said defence counsel Awadhesh Singh urged the court not to press upon Ashish Mishra’s second bail application following which district and sessions judge ordered to reject it.Ashish Mishra had on Saturday (December 18) moved a bail application under modified sections of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) in connection with FIR number 219 before the court of the district and sessions judge here.FIR number 219 pertains to the killing of four farmers and a local journalist during the October 3 violence in Lakhimpur Kheri where a total of eight people were killed on the day. Besides Ashish Mishra, 15-20 others have been named in the FIR number 219 lodged with Tikunia kotwali in connection with the October 3 violence. Meanwhile, the first bail applications of five other accused of Tikunia violence (FIR number 219) namely Ankit Das, Shekhar Bharti, Nandan Singh Bisht, Latif alias Kale and Satyam alias Satya Prakash Tripathi were also rejected by the district and sessions judge when their counsel urged the court not to press upon them, DGC Tripathi said.The bail applications of the five accused had been moved in the district sessions court in FIR number 219 to seek bail under sections 147, 148, 149,279, 338,304 A and 120B of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) after being rejected by the lower court.However, on December 14, the CJM court had allowed the special investigators to add sections 307 (attempt to murder), 326 (voluntarily causing grievous harm with dangerous weapons) of IPC and sections 3/25/30 read with section 35 of the Arms Act, which were not part of the original FIR number 219 in which Ashish Mishra is the main accused.The court had also allowed the SIT probing the Tikunia violence case to drop sections 279, 338 and 304A of the IPC from the FIR number 219. The modifications in the sections were allowed after chief investigating officer Vidyaram Diwakar, in his report to the court, described the act as premeditated with the intention to kill.Tripathi said following this development, during hearing on their bail applications, the defence counsel urged not to press upon them, following which district and sessions judge Mukesh Mishra rejected their bail applications.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/lakhimpur-violence-ashish-mishra-s-second-bail-plea-rejected-101640022748531.html
20-12-2021||Lucknow||BJP govt working for development of all: UP CM Yogi||Chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Monday said while the previous government in the state used to take care of their loved ones only due to which the poor and farmers were deprived of the benefits of government schemes, the BJP government was extending benefits of the schemes to all.He also said 135 crore people of the country were a family for Prime Minister Narendra Modi and he was working round the clock for the all-round development of the nation.Yogi expressed these views while addressing a public meeting in Machhlishahr of Jaunpur district of east UP after he along with Union road transport minister Nitin Gadkari launched several development projects worth over ₹1500 crore. The chief minister said those who were opposing the Covid vaccine must be opposed. They were playing with the life of people.“The ration that the poor are getting today used to go to the mafia before 2017. Two lakh migrants returned to Jaunpur alone during the pandemic. Along with saving their lives, work was also given to them,” Yogi added.The CM said India was poised to become the biggest power in the world under PM Narendra Modi. “Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Union minister Nitin Gadkari have shown how development should take place,” he added.“On one hand, bulldozers will do the work of making the road, they will also run on the chest of the mafia on the other. This is the ‘New UP’. The construction of a grand temple of Lord Shri Ram has already started in Ayodhya. By 2023, ‘Ram Lalla’ (infant Lord Ram) will be seated in His grand temple. Our generation is fortunate that we are seeing this grand temple being built,” Yogi said.Later, the CM also inspected the venue in Varanasi where PM Modi is proposed to address a public meeting on December 23. 
20-12-2021||Pune||PMC amnesty scheme: Pune-based activists fear property tax waiver misuse||PUNE Civic activists have sought introduction of terms and conditions to restrict any misuse of the Pune Municipal Corporation’s(PMC) amnesty scheme for property tax defaulters. According to the activists, the scheme is an injustice to the regular tax payers.Vivek Velankar of citizens’ group Sajag Nagrik Manch in a letter to standing committee chairman of Pune Municipal Corporation said that people who have already benefited from the scheme should not be part of this initiative again. “This is the second amnesty scheme for property tax in the same financial year. Now, the civic body must make in mandatory to cancel the rebate of 75 per cent fine if the defaulters are repeated, and recover from them,” said Velankar. PMC’s amnesty scheme commenced from December 20. PMC launched the amnesty scheme for defaulters whose default amount is up to ₹1 crore. In accordance with the scheme, 75% waiver on the penalty would be given to the defaulters if they paid the tax before January 26 of next year. Standing committee chairman Hemant Rasne said, “This is the second amnesty scheme this year. We got good response in the first scheme and received more than ₹450 crore. We are expecting more revenue in the second scheme. Due to Covid-19 pandemic, many people suffered and this scheme will help them to repay the tax. As we launched the amnesty scheme, PMC has received the highest revenue from property tax in Maharastra during the pandemic.These funds help in the execution of various development works.”BOXHead: Where’s the money?72,700: No. of tax payers benefiting from the second amnesty in this financial year.According to civic activist Vivek Velankar, these 72,700 tax payers have a default amount of ₹174 crore, of which ₹103 crore is from commercial properties.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pmc-amnesty-scheme-pune-based-activists-fear-property-tax-waiver-misuse-101640022328227.html
20-12-2021||Pune||Organisers undecided on third edition of Elgar Parishad||PUNE The Elgar Parishad organisers are undecided about holding another edition of the conclave, for them getting bail for artistes is top priority. The second edition of the Elgar Parishad was held at GaneshKala Krida manch on Jan 1, last year wherein academics, activists and writers from dalit, muslim and other social organisations addressed the thinly attended event. Former Bombay HC judge BG Kolse Patil who was one of the organisers of the event along with late Justice P B Sawant under Bhima Koregaon Shauryadin Prerna Abhiyaan said, “Currently we are thinking about the bail of those organisers of Elgar Parishad who have been falsely arrested in the case. We are hopeful that they will be released on bail.” Violence and arrestsThe first edition of the Elgar Parishad was held on December 31, 2017 in Pune’s Shaniwar Wada. Violence, however, broke out in Bhima Koregaon on January 2, 2018, a day after the event concluded, with the Pune Police claiming that speeches at the Elgar Parishad were responsible, at least partially, for the clashes. Two FIRs were filed — one against Shivjagar Pratisthan president Sambhaji Bhide ‘Guruji’ and the Hindu Janajagruti Samiti president Milind Ekbote. The second FIR was filed against “Leftist groups with Maoist links” who spoke at the Elgar Parishad.In 2018, the Pune police raided the homes of several human rights activists across the country and arrested activists, lawyers and academicians including Varavara Rao, Sudhir Dhawale, Sudha Bharadwaj, Arun Ferreira, Shoma Sen and Rona Wilson, among others.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/organisers-undecided-on-third-edition-of-elgar-parishad-101640022028095.html
20-12-2021||Pune||INS Shivaji conduct Camp Abhyas-21||PUNE Camp ‘Abhyaas’ was conducted at INS Shivaji , Lonavala for trainee sailors of Direct Entry Engineering Mechanic (DEME) Course from December 17 to 19 to develop teamwork, seafaring strength, camaraderie, leadership qualities amongst the trainees. The camp was witnessed by Rear Admiral TVN Prasanna, VSM, CSO(TRG) as chief guest.A total of 196 under trainees of DEME 60.948 Course participated in the camp including one international trainee from friendly foreign nation Maldives. In addition to various camp activities, a pioneer “Damage Control and Fire Fighting Championship” was conducted as part of the camp wherein trainees were tasked to undertake damage control operations and firefighting exercise in limited time akin to how they would be challenged ‘at sea’.Pratapgad division emerged as the champion of Camp Abhyas -21. Prashant Kalshan DEME was adjudged as the best trainee of the camp and Vishal Ugale DEME was adjudged as the most spirited trainee of Camp Abhyas-21.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/ins-shivaji-conduct-camp-abhyas21-101640021789402.html
20-12-2021||Lucknow||Hema Malini for a grand temple in Mathura||While making a reference to the Kashi Vishwanath Corridor which was recently inaugurated by Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) MP from Mathura Hema Malini has expressed hope that after Ayodhya and Kashi, her parliamentary constituency will also get a grand temple.“Being the MP of Mathura, which is the birthplace of Lord Krishna, I will say that there should be a grand temple. A temple is already there and can be beautified like Modi Ji developed Kashi Vishwanath corridor,” news agency ANI tweeted along with the video of her statement made in Indore on Monday. “Modi ji brought up such a beautiful corridor at Kashi Vishwanath Mandir and got it developed. Now Ganga can be viewed from temple. It was farsightedness of prime minister that he implemented what no one could even think of in Varanasi and something similar could be done in Mathura too,” she said.“Construction of a temple at Ram Janmabhoomi is already on and Kashi Vishwanath temple has been renovated and beautified. Naturally, the Janmabhoomi of Krishna in Mathura deserves to have a grand temple.... Much has been done here in Mathura but the task, which has not been done till date, (for temple)…..needs to be done,” she was quoted as saying. She also said she was planning to visit Kashi Vishwanath temple in Varanasi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/hema-malini-for-a-grand-temple-in-mathura-101640021729616.html
20-12-2021||Mumbai||Stop interfering with Coastal Road work, Worli police to fisherfolk||Mumbai The Worli Police on Monday issued a notice to protesting fisherfolk from Worli Koliwada, under Section 49 of the Criminal Procedure Code, instructing them to “stop interfering” with ongoing Coastal Road construction work being carried out by the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC). Since October 14, fisherfolk have prevented the BMC’s contractor from constructing an interchange between the Coastal Road and the Worli end of the Bandra-Worli Sea Link, which they maintain will cut them off from their traditional fishing grounds.The police’s notice, a copy of which has been seen by Hindustan Times, has been signed by Anil Koli, senior police inspector, Worli. Addressed to Nitesh Patil, secretary of the Worli Koliwada Matsyavyavsay Sahakari Sangathan (a registered fish worker’s society), the letter states, “You and your colleagues are frequently disrupting the ongoing work of the Coastal Road project by carrying out fishing activities near Cleveland Bunder in violation of orders.” The BMC had, in October, told fishers that they would not be allowed to carry out their trade in the area for a period of two years. However, since the BMC has not yet agreed to their demands for a redesign of the interchange, fishermen have continued to operate in the area and have repeatedly thwarted attempts by the BMC to resume construction work.“In the future, if you and your colleagues reunite and disrupt the work of the Coastal Road project and create law and order problems, you will be held fully responsible and will be prosecuted. Appropriate legal action will be taken for any violation of this order,” the notice states. It also tells fisherfolk that all forms of protest, including meetings, fasts, marches, dharnas and so on are prohibited at any other location in South Mumbai other than Azad Maidan, as per a 1997 order of the Mumbai High Court.Fisherfolk, on the other hand, maintained that they will not give up their demands for a redesign of the interchange, and will respond to the police’s notice through appropriate channels. Fisherfolk has repeatedly emphasised that the proposed interchange between the Coastal Road and BWSL will force them to shut down Cleveland Bunder, an artisan fishing port in Worli Koliwada, despite regulatory clearances for the project prohibiting any construction that hampers traditional livelihoods of fishers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/stop-interfering-with-coastal-road-work-worli-police-to-fisherfolk-101640021728180.html
20-12-2021||Pune||MSEDCL unearths power theft worth ₹91.35 lakh in Kharadi, FIR registered||PUNE The Maharashtra State Electricity Distribution Company Limited (MSEDCL) flying squad on Friday unearthed power theft worth ₹91.35 lakh wherein the accused managed to procure direct power supply through unauthorised cable for two buildings situated in Galaxy building in Kharadi. A case under electricity Act has been lodged at Chandannagar police station. A team comprising additional executive engineer Dilip Madane of Wadgaon Sheri sub-Division, assistant engineers Sachin Pund, Asmita Koshti, Janmitra Ganesh Surase and Vitthal Kokate carried out surprise inspections of the electrical connections of some under-construction buildings in the Kharadi on Friday. They investigated the electrical connections provided for the construction of the Galaxy One and Two apartments near Eon IT Park. Roshan Ramesh Dusane from Kharadi has been given this connection of three phase and 14 KW capacity by MSEDCL but serious violations were found, said MSEDCL authorities. However, the team’s investigation revealed that with the help of this connection, another 40 metre long unauthorised cable was laid which led to a major power theft at Galaxy One and Two buildings. The construction of both the buildings is completed and the investigation has revealed that electricity theft has started for the occupants of about 30 flats in both the buildings, water motors for common use, two lifts, parking lights and no official and independent electrical connection has been taken. MSEDCL seized cables and other materials used for power theft. After the panchnama, it was found that a total of 2,11,433 units of power worth ₹ 91,35,345 were stolen. The chief engineer of Pune Circle, Sachin Talewar; superintendent engineer of Rastapeth Mandal, Prakash Raut and executive engineer Ashok Jadhav also visited and inspected the place, said officials. A case has been registered against the customer Roshan Ramesh Dusane at Chandannagar police station under sections 135 and 138 of the Indian Electricity Act 2003. MSEDCL PRO office maintained that crackdown against illegal connections will continue and the authority will lodge criminal cases against the violators.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/msedcl-unearths-power-theft-worth-91-35-lakh-in-kharadi-fir-registered-101640021188017.html
20-12-2021||Mumbai||Lokmanya Tilak’s kin in bid to head Savarkar Smarak||MUMBAI: Lokmanya Bal Gangadhar Tilak, one of India’s foremost freedom fighters, was an abiding influence on revolutionary-turned-Hindutva ideologue, Vinayak Damodar Savarkar. This Sunday, though, the descendants of Tilak and Savarkar will battle it out for control of the Swatantryaveer Savarkar Rashtriya Smarak or Swatantryaveer Savarkar National Memorial at Dadar in central Mumbai. The memorial is the nerve-centre of Savarkarites. The memorial’s president has a one-year tenure. Its membership is limited to Savarkarites (applications are vetted by existing members, and only those that are loyal to Savarkar’s ideology are approved), and is controlled by 11 trustees, who are also part of a 21-member working committee. There are provisions to co-opt up to five members on the working committee. Deepak Tilak, the great-grandson of the Lokmanya, will fight for the president’s post; and Ranjit Savarkar, the grandson of Savarkar’s younger brother Dr Narayanrao aka Bal, and his associates, have fielded former state director general of police (DGP) Praveen Dixit. Located opposite Shivaji Park at Dadar, the memorial is spread over 6,650 sq m (1.65 acres), of land, and has a library, exhibits and conducts classes for activities such as martial arts. The land was granted by Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) in the early 1970s, and the first phase was thrown open in 1989, with the second phase inaugurated in 2003. Close to 400 members of the trust will vote by secret ballot on December 26. Deepak’s father Jayantrao Tilak became a Congress leader following a stint with the Hindu Mahasabha, a social organisation-turned-political-party that Savarkar headed between 1937 and 1943. It was under Savarakar that Hindu Mahasabha became became a staunch critic of the Congress party. Jayantarao was the chairman of the memorial from 1987 to 1996 and its president from 1996 to 2001. As a Congressman, he became a member of the Rajya Sabha from 1968 to 1980, and was also chairman of the Maharashtra Legislative Council. Deepak is the chancellor of the Tilak Maharashtra University and controls the Kesari newspaper, while his son Rohit is a Congress leader and had contested the assembly elections from Kasba Peth in Pune. Deepak said poor management has led to the memorial’s weak financial position. “The management of the Smarak is poor... its financial health has collapsed,” he said, adding that he had written to the members of the institution in the past about these issues. He said that Congress leaders had also played a role in the development of the institution and had donated to it. A trustee from 2004 to 2007, Deepak says he has promised to restore its glory, add more members and also complete work on the museum of armed revolutionaries, which he alleged is hanging fire for 20 years. He also referred to his father’s role in the development of the complex. “Deepak Tilak has no moral right to contest as he kept mum when the Congress was defaming Savarkar,” said Ranjit, the current working president. He said the Tilak Smarak Mandir Trust controlled by him had given the Lokmanya Tilak award to Congress leaders such as Pranab Mukherjee and Sheila Dixit. He questioned whether Deepak wanted to dilute the case filed by the Smarak against former Congress president Rahul Gandhi for his comments against Savarkar. Ranjit said Deepak had announced his candidature for the President’s post in 2006, but had later backed off. Tilak and Savarkar In 1905, Savarkar, then a student at the Fergusson College in Pune, organised a massive bonfire of imported clothes, with Tilak in attendance. Tilak also recommended Savarkar to the revolutionary Shyamji Krishna Verma, enabling him to get a scholarship to study for the Bar at London. Editors of Kesari such as NC Kelkar and JS Karandikar were affiliated to the Hindu Mahasabha, and the newspaper reflected these positions. Savarkar would stay in the Kesari office guest house at Pune and his daughter Prabhat was married there in 1945. Jayantrao, whose father, Shridharpant Tilak, was a social reformer and anti-caste activist, was with the Mahasabha before joining the Congress. He also edited Kesari. Tilak’s other grandson GV Ketkar was also the editor of Mahratta and Kesari. Savarkar was arrested in connection with the murder of Mahatma Gandhi in 1948, but acquitted by a special court. In 1964, presiding over a function to felicitate the accused in the case who had been released from prison, Ketkar disclosed that for around three months before Gandhi’s murder, Nathuram Godse, his assassin, used to discuss these plans with him. This led to an uproar and prompted the Union Government to set up the Justice J.L. Kapoor commission. It would say that “all these facts taken together were destructive of any theory other than the conspiracy to murder by Savarkar and his group.” However, in 2018, the Supreme Court (SC) ruled that the finding of the commission did not interfere with the acquittal or overturn it.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/lokmanya-tilak-s-kin-in-bid-to-head-savarkar-smarak-101640021008227.html
20-12-2021||Mumbai||BMC gives green signal to ₹1.8k crore worth road works||Mumbai The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation’s (BMC) standing committee headed by the Shiv Sena cleared road repair works in the city at ₹1,800 crore- 18% below the estimation of ₹2,200 crore by the BMC’s administration. This is despite corporators across party lines raising concerns about whether the contractors, who bid that BMC’s estimated cost just to get the contract, would end up building poor quality roads to earn profit. However, barring members of the opposition BJP, they voted in favour of the proposal citing upcoming elections and the condition of the roads requiring repairs before the next monsoon. According to BMC estimations, the proposed repair work across the city, western and eastern suburbs include both major and minor a total of 808 roads. For this, ₹2,200 crore was estimated to be spent. However, in the meeting of the civic standing committee, the proposals to give contracts for ₹1,800 crore, which was 18% below the estimated cost were cleared. BJP members walked out of the meeting demanding rollback of the proposal, while Shiv Sena with the support from Congress and NCP, showed green light to the same. The BJP had demanded that proper details should be given by BMC as to why contracts are being given at lower rates than the estimations followed by technical details regarding the road contracts.However, corporators across party including Shiv Sena, Congress and NCP backed the proposals citing upcoming elections wherein corporators have to show face to the citizens.Vishaka Raut, Shiv Sena Corporator and group leader of the Sena in the BMC, said, “We need to understand that we have been working for the citizens over the last five years. Now we need to see what works we do for citizens in the last few months. Hence, we should be passing these road repair works proposals without any further delay.”The current tenure of the corporators is ending on March 7, 2022, and the elections are expected in the last week of February or the first week of March.Prabhakar Shinder, BJP’ group leader in the BMC said, “There are no details in the proposal as to what is the length, width of the individual roads that are being taken up for repair works. The third-party auditors that will monitor the quality of road repair works are yet not appointed. So, why are we going ahead with passing the proposal at much lower rates?”Ravi Raja, the leader of Opposition in the BMC and Congress Corporator said, “I agree that the contracts are being awarded at a much lower price and we need to appoint a third-party auditor to monitor repair works, but this does not mean we delay the work. We need to pass the proposal and ensure administration gives good quality of roads to the citizens.”Responding to the corporators, Sanjeev Kumar, additional municipal commissioner of the BMC said, “We have noted each and every point of corporators and we will do the necessary compliance. We will also timely appoint third-party auditors to monitor road works, and good quality of road repairs will be ensured.” Post this, Shiv Sena Corporator Yashwant Jadhav and chairman of the standing committee gave their approval to the proposals worth ₹1,800 crore. However, the BJP corporators staged a walk out of the civic standing committee.Civic activist Nikhil Desai from Matunga said, “For a citizen or layman, I do not think contracts being given at more or less cost should be a concern considering BMC is financially stable to spend. But what matters the most is that the quality and durability of the roads should be there. If there are potholes in months or roads, there is no meaning. I will be happy if citizens good roads even at a higher or lower rate considering quality is all that matters.”Further, under the repair, maintenance and strengthening work, the BMC is converting the surface of all city roads from paver block/ asphalt to cement and concrete. The contractor that will be appointed for repair works will be responsible for clearance from the Mumbai Traffic Police and will have to manage traffic including installing safety barricades during the construction phase. The construction period for all the 808 roads in the city varies from road to road with a minimum of 12 months to 24 months depending on the challenges at the construction site.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/bmc-gives-green-signal-to-rs-1-8k-crore-worth-road-works-101640020888106.html
20-12-2021||Other||Odisha starts air health services to fly doctors to hinterland hospitals||In an effort to woo people of rural areas ahead of panchayat polls scheduled to be held next year, Odisha on Monday launched an air health service called Mukhyamantri Vayu Swasthya Seva in which specialists would be flown to backward districts with scarcity of doctors for prompt treatment of patients in district headquarter hospitals.The first phase of the service which was launched for four districts– Malkangiri, Nabarangpur, Nuapada and Kalahandi– on Monday saw a team from the SCB Medical College and Hospital in Cuttack fly to Jeypore town of Koraput district in a Beechcraft plane and then travel to Malkangiri district by car. The team from SCB Medical College and Hospital, comprising Datteswar Hota (urologist), Satya Narayan Routray (cardiologist) and Chitta Ranjan Panda (gastroenterologist), took the flight to Jeypore and then from there to Malkangiri town. Before the team arrived, another team of 4 doctors from SCB Medical College had travelled to Malkangiri.Health minister Naba Das said under the initiative, a list of specialists required for the treatment of critical patients admitted to various District Headquarters Hospitals (DHH) will be prepared and sent to the health department. Accordingly, the doctors will be flown to the destined DHHs through aircraft/ helicopters for prompt treatment of the patients. If required, the patients will be airlifted to various healthcare facilities in Bhubaneswar and Cuttack. Specialists such as neurologists, nephrologists and cardiologists will be flown to the DHHs. The follow-up treatment of the patients will be carried out through tele-medicine.The air health service comes in the aftermath of the distribution of smart health cards under the Biju Swasthya Kalyan Yojana in which pre-loaded cards will be given to over 96 lakh families. Under the scheme, an annual health coverage of ₹5 lakh is provided per family while families with women members get an additional ₹5 lakh. The cardholders can get free treatment up to ₹5 lakh or ₹10 lakh from empanelled private hospitals.The air ambulance service however was slammed by health activists who called it an election stunt. Gouranga Mohapatra of Jana Swasthya Abhiyan, a health NGO, said while the state government has filed an affidavit with Orissa High Court that nearly 44 per cent of the doctor posts are lying vacant in district headquarter hospitals, periphery hospitals, community health centres and primary health centres across the state, there is little to achieve by flying doctors from Bhubaneswar or Cuttack.“It’s an exercise in futility. The government instead of flying in doctors can strengthen the healthcare system in the district headquarter hospitals by recruiting doctors. Instead of spending huge amounts of money on burning aviation fuel, the same money can be used to hire more doctors and make their residential quarters in districts better. These stop-gap arrangements would not be of much help,” said Mohapatra.The state government in an affidavit in the Orissa High Court last week said that till December 7, at least 3,523 posts of general duty medical officers in the Odisha Medical Health Services cadre were vacant out of sanctioned posts of 5838. Similarly, 1,211 posts of specialist medical officers in the OMHS cadre were vacant out of 2708 sanctioned posts....||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/odisha-starts-air-health-services-to-fly-doctors-to-hinterland-hospitals-101640020708969.html
20-12-2021||Patna||People raising questions over PT result are ‘Manuwadi’: Soren over JPSC row||Rejecting all allegations of corruption in the ongoing civil services examination being conducted by the Jharkhand Public Service Commission (JPSC), chief minister Hemant Soren on Monday said that those making an issue of the Prelims result are people with ‘manuwadi’ mindset as the number of aspirants from the reserved category has gone up this time around.Soren made this statement in the Jharkhand assembly in view of the repeated disruption of proceedings in the House by the BJP legislators demanding CBI inquiry in the alleged irregularities in the examination and sacking of the JPSC chairman.“People who hold Manuwadi mindset are having trouble now because members from the ST, Dalit, and OBC category are coming forward. They are getting people paid to hold protests. They are backing the protesters from the backdoor and providing them with ration and logistics. They are making VHP people sit in the protest,” Soren said.Claiming that the JPSC was an autonomous body and there was no interference of the government in conducting the examination, the chief minister challenged all 81 members in the House to come out with any proof against it. Besides BJP, members from the JMM, Congress, and CPI (ML) have raised questions about the Preliminary Test (PT) results and have even sought a probe.“We know what has been the history of JPSC in the past due to government interference. A former JPSC chairman is in jail and CBI is also probing the case. But in this examination, there has been no interference from the government. I challenge all 81 members here to come with any proof,” said Soren.The CM’s statement, however, failed to impress those demanding a probe. Speaking to reporters outside the House, BJP legislature party leader Babulal Marandi said the CM’s remark was a diversionary tactic to defend corruption and the JPSC chairman.“No one is raising questions about people from which category have cleared the exam. The question is about irregularities. Initially, the commission said there was no irregularity, despite the fact that students from the same room cleared the exam at the same location. When the aspirants protested and started mounting pressure, the commission itself revised the result saying OMR sheets are missing. Why has the Commission not put the OMR sheets in the public domain yet as was promised in the examination notification? The CM is running away from the real questions,” said Marandi.Taking exception to the CM’s statement, BJP legislator and former minister Amar Kumar Bauri described his remark as unbecoming of someone holding a constitutional post. “You are making divisive statements to defend corruption and the JPSC chairman. The government was also defending itself in the Rupa Tirkey murder case. Court then ordered a CBI inquiry. You say there is no political interference, but you have made the wife of party spokesperson member of the JPSC,” said Bauri.CPI (ML) legislator Binod Singh, who too has been demanding a probe, said he was not convinced with the CM’s statement. “It would be better if the government comes out with data to back their statement. JPSC is an independent body, but it is the government that makes all appointments. They have access to all information. They should instead come out with facts over questions being raised so that they gain the confidence of the aspirants,” said Singh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/people-raising-questions-over-pt-result-are-manuwadi-soren-over-jpsc-row-101640020348224.html
20-12-2021||Patna||5.6 lakh registered with unemployment exchange in 18 months in Jharkhand||The number of people registered with unemployment exchanges has increased over six times in Jharkhand in 18 months between 2020 and 2021 as compared to 2019, the state government said.In a written reply to BJP legislator Birnachi Narayan, the state government said that while 85,122 persons had registered themselves with unemployment exchanges in the state in 2019, the number has gone up to 5.6 lakh in the last 18 months from January 2020 to June 2021.In between these 18 months, the economy was badly hit since March 2020 due to lockdown in wake of the Covid-19 pandemic. Lakhs of people, both in formal and informal sectors were said to have lost their jobs. Jharkhand witnesses huge migration due to lack of jobs in the state and many returned home during the pandemic, the government said.When asked by the BJP legislator about its plans to fill vacant government posts, the government’s reply did not give a clear road map on the issue.The government said the process of recruitment is going on and employment policy across several departments is being amended and it would soon come up with employment notifications.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/56-lakh-registered-with-unemployment-exchange-in-18-months-in-jharkhand-101640020107864.html
20-12-2021||Patna||Bihar: MU registrar, 4 others arrested by SVU||Sleuths of the special vigilance unit (SVU) on Monday arrested four people including two professors and a registrar of Magadh University (MU) for alleged corruption, misuse of government funds, and abuse of powers, SVU officials said.Last month, the SVU had carried out raids at the residence and office of the MU vice-chancellor.The registrar, identified as Pushpendra Kumar Verma, has earlier held additional charges of Nalanda Open University and Arya Bhatt Knowledge University. Others who were arrested have been identified as Prof Binod Kumar, library in charge of MU, proctor Jainandan Prasad Singh and assistant Subodh Kumar.Confirming their arrests, the additional director general (SVU) N H Khan told HT that all the accused were produced before the special vigilance judge and they have been sent to judicial custody.He said that the SVU had on November 17 carried out simultaneous raids at the office of MU’s VC Rajendra Prasad, residential premises in Bodh-Gaya and native place at Gorakhpur in Uttar Pradesh.The SVU has registered a case against present V-C, his PA-cum-assistant of MU, Subodh Kumar, the financial officer of Veer Kunwar Singh University (VKSU), Om Prakash, registrar of Patliputra University, Jitendra Kumar besides M/s Poorva Graphics & Offset Printers, M/s XLICT software private limited, Lucknow and others under IPC sections 120B (criminal conspiracy) and 420 (cheating), besides relevant sections of the Prevention of Corruption Act, 1988.According to preliminary reports, the V-C has been charged with financial irregularities to the tune of ₹30-crore during his stint as MU VC and additional charge of Veer Kuer Singh University (Ara) for a brief period.According to sources, there was a long list of complaint against the V-C, including petitions sent to the Prime Minister by a Right to Information (RTI) activist regarding corruption in Bihar varsities through UP-based companies - Infolink Consultancy Services Pvt Ltd and XLICT Pvt Limited, both of which are registered under the name of the same person and were mentioned as working under patronage of bigwigs. The owner of the companies is also said to be related to the V-C.The contract given to the two companies spelt trouble for the V-C after the resignation of MU finance officer, termination of registrar by the order of the Raj Bhawan and later the transfer of MU financial advisor to TM Bhagalpur University by Raj Bhawan’s notification few months ago.The three officers had in March 2021 written to the principal secretary, Chancellor’s office regarding pressure on them to clear payment of ₹16-crore to the two companies for OMR sheet and other exam related work without following the due tender process.Besides, answer-sheets were purchased from Vidya Enterprises (Khera), Gujarat, without following the due procedure of going through the GEM portal for any government purchase. “A new RS 26-lakh SUV was also purchased by the VC without prior sanction even though nearly half a dozen vehicles were there at the university in the VC’s name,” the officials said, adding there were various other complaints regarding money play in transfer, posting and even official work.
20-12-2021||Mumbai||Now Raut dares BJP to give up 105 assembly seats and fight polls again||MUMBAI A day after union home minister and senior Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader Amit Shah dared chief minister Uddhav Thackeray to resign and fight elections again, the Shiv Sena on Monday delivered its comeback challenging the BJP to give up its 105 seats in the assembly and see how many it wins without the support of the Shiv Sena and central agencies.Sena leader Raut said in the national capital, “We dare them (BJP) that all 105 legislators (who won in the 2019 elections) must resign. Had it not been for the Shiv Sena’s support, they would not have got this number. We dare them to resign and get re-elected in the 105 seats.”“You are roaming around with the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI), Enforcement Directorate (ED) and Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) in Maharashtra. We dare you to keep them away and then fight us. We will take attacks head on; do not backstab,” Raut said in a thinly-veiled reference to cases registered by the three agencies against leaders of the ruling coalition, Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA).Responding to Shah’s accusation that the Shiv Sena compromised on Hindutva for power, Raut said, “The Shiv Sena has never let go of Hindutva and it will never do so. In 2014, a ‘staunch Hindutvawadi party’ like ours was cast aside for the sake of complete power. Amit Shah must tell everyone who was it that wanted to keep the Shiv Sena out... He (Shah) also said that we should contest solo. I wish to tell him that we contested solo in 2014 against an immense wave of money, power and government power. We fought well under Uddhav Thackeray’s leadership and got victory.”Shah on Sunday accused the Sena of betraying the BJP for power and called the MVA a ‘punctured rickshaw’ whose wheels were headed in three different directions. “They (Sena) sat in the lap of the ones they have been fighting against for two generations,” he said. Reacting to Shah’s criticism, Raut said that he understood the ‘frustration’ of the BJP leaders as the central agencies failed to topple the MVA government. Raut recalled that when the alliance was announced at a venue in Worli in 2019, both parties used the phrase, “50:50 power-sharing”. “What does it mean? The 50:50 power-sharing (formula) included the chief minister’s post as well; do not lie, at least not in Pune, which is Shivaji Maharaj’s land. He (Shah) must look into law and order in Karnataka where Shivaji Maharaj is being insulted,” Raut said.Countering Raut’s riposte, BJP state president Chandrakant Patil said that the state of affairs in Maharashtra is so bad that people would react to it if there is an election now. “Amit Shah said that if the Shiv Sena is ready, they can announce polls and see the results for themselves. If an election is announced now, it will be clear who helped whom. Everything (in the government) is scattered. Somebody is unwell, someone is in jail, papers are leaked, there are crimes against women, farmers are not getting any assistance, Maratha reservation is gone, the other backward classes (OBC) political quota is gone so let the people vote again in this backdrop, and you will know who the citizens back.”Ahead of the municipal elections, the bitter war of words between the Sena and BJP is only expected to intensify as the Sena wants to keep control of the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) and gain control of civic bodies in Pune and Pimpri-Chinchwad with the help of the NCP.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/now-raut-dares-bjp-to-give-up-105-assembly-seats-and-fight-polls-again-101640019748072.html
20-12-2021||Patna||Bihar set to get new chief secy in 2022, two IAS to go on central deputation||With the present chief secretary, Tripurari Sharan, set to retire by end of December, the Bihar government is now looking at options to fill the post, officials said.A 1985 batch IAS officer, Sharan was appointed as the state chief secretary on May 1 after the demise of his predecessor Arun Kumar Singh due to Covid-19. Since then, he has been given two extensions of three months each, one in June and the other in September. His term will come to an end on December 31.At present, there are 12 officers in the rank of additional chief secretary in the state, including 1986-batch Sanjiv Kumar Sinha, presently chairman, board of revenue. However, many see development commissioner and 1987 batch officer Amir Subhani as the front runner to succeed Sharan, though another 1987 batch officer Atul Prasad, additional chief secretary, social welfare department, is also in the race.Subhani had a long stint as the state home secretary as well and people aware of the development said that he might fit Nitish Kumar’s scheme of things. Moreover, what goes in Subhani’s favour is the continuity factor, as he would retire in April 2024, while Sinha and Prasad will retire in May 2022.Other officers in the additional chief secretary rank include chief inquiry commissioner Sudhir Kumar (1988 batch) and three 1989 batch officers - revenue and land reforms department head Vivek Kumar Singh, industry department head Brajesh Mehrotra, labour resources department Vandana Kinni , and three officers in the 1990 batch, education department head Sanjay Kumar, home department head Chaitanya Prasad and prohibition and excise department chief KK Pathak. Apart from the two officers, heath department head Pratyaya Amrit and finance department head S Siddharth, from 1991 batch, are also in the additional chief secretary rank.One of the additional chief secretaries Sanjay Kumar is set to go on central deputation. He is awaiting his empanelment after no objection from the state government. Besides, chief minister Nitish Kumar’s principal secretary Chanchal Kumar, who had the longest stint with the CM, is also set to go on central deputation. He is seen as the most powerful officer due to his close proximity to the CM. His exit might lead to a rejig in the CM secretariat as well, people aware of the development said. Besides, former chief secretary Dipak Kumar is also tipped for the post of chairman of a commission, people aware of the development said. Since his retirement as chief secretary, Dipak Kumar is serving in the CM secretariat as principal secretary.
20-12-2021||Patna||Special status demand: JD(U) threatens to stage stir in Bihar, BJP calls it ‘political stunt’||Upping the ante on the central government to grant special status to Bihar, the Janata Dal (United) on Monday threatened to launch an agitation if their demand is not met. The JD(U) had even raised the matter in the Lok Sabha on December 14. JD(U) national president of the Parliamentary Board, Upendra Kushwaha in Patna said that if the Centre wants Bihar can get a special status. “Everything depends on Prime Minister Narendra Modi. If he wants, Bihar will get special status immediately. If the central government does not give special status, then JD (U) will launch an agitation,” Kushwaha said.The renewed demand for the special status follows Niti Aayog’s recent report on multidimensional poverty index which placed Bihar at the bottom in the country.Lashing out at the BJP, who have been opposing the demand of granting special status to Bihar, Kushwaha said, “Please inform the people of Bihar how many special packages have been given to the state”.Hitting back at Kushwaha, BJP minister for road construction Nitin Naveen said, “Prime Minister Narendra Modi has provided a special package due to which Bihar is developing. The Prime Minister is keeping a close watch on the state.”Terming JD(U)’s demand as a political stunt, BJP’s spokesperson Prem Ranjan Patel said, “Kushwaha’s statement is nothing but a political stunt. This is not required at all. Bihar is being properly looked after by the PM. During the 14th Finance Commission, there was a provision of special status but the Raghuram Rajan Committee suggested doing away with the “Special Category” criterion of providing additional assistance to poorer states. Instead, it has proposed a general method for allocating funds from the Centre based on the state’s development needs as well as its performance”.Denying that the party’s demand for special status is a political stunt, JD (U) national principal general secretary KC Tyagi said, “Didn’t Bihar fulfill all the parameters? The Niti Aayog says Bihar is backward but is silent on the crime rate that has come down in general and on women empowerment. ”A senior NDA leader who did not wish not to be named questioned the party’s timing for raking the issue. “In its quest to get national party status, the demand has been raised so that JD (U) gets a greater share in the upcoming Uttar Pradesh polls,” said the leader.Experts also echoed the same view. “Nitish Kumar’s renewed demand for special status has no apparent reason except that JD (U) wants to fight on more seats in Uttar Pradesh, which is due for polls next year. Making his presence felt will make the BJP pay attention to Nitish’s demands, if any, in Uttar Pradesh,” said Gyanendra Yadav, associate professor of Sociology, College of Commerce.According to people aware of the development, JD (U) wants to get close to 60-80 seats in UP whereas in 2012 it had contested 20 seats.
20-12-2021||Patna||Bihar fully prepared tackle third wave of Covid: CM||Chief minister Nitish Kumar on Monday said that the state is prepared to meet any eventuality in case the third phase of pandemic breaks out.Talking to media persons after the customary Janta Darbar — an event where people get a chance to talk to the CM about their problems —Kumar said there was no report of Omicron infection in Bihar, so far. “The health department has intensified testing for Covid pandemic across the state to ward off the outbreak of the pandemic. Bihar is among the states, where the rate of testing is, considerably, very high,” said the CM, adding that it’s taking nearly 22-25 days for the test to decipher the new variant of Covid against the previous cycle of 5-7 days.The CM said that the health department was on alert mode to combat the challenge. “The designated hospitals are geared up with all resources to deal with the pandemic,” he added.Taking swipe at the opposition’s allegations about the misuse of public money in the name of social reforms campaign, slated to begin this Wednesday, Kumar said he does not care about others perceptions. “Through this campaign, we want to make the society free from addiction, dowry, child-marriage and ensure that all needs of the poor get fulfilled, irrespective of the distance barrier. The families marginalised in the society must be attached with the livelihoods. The campaign for social reforms will go along with the development of the state,” added the CM.Regarding former CM Jitan Ram Manjhi’s allegations that the influential persons breach the liquor ban with impunity, Kumar said he didn’t expect a person, who take the pledge to ensure prohibition in the state, talk like that. “Of course, there are still some people, who do not obey the norms and they are caught by the law enforcing machinery,” said the CM.On being asked for the reasons for the delayed completion of the PM housing scheme units, the CM asked the principal secretary of the rural development department, Arvind Kumar Chaudhary, to explain the situation. Countering the allegations, Chaudhary said that 83% of the houses being built under the scheme were complete, while the pace of construction on the rest would scale up after the Panchayat elections. About 26 lakh housing units are to be completed under the PM Awas Yojana in the state this fiscal.As many as 135 persons met the CM during the event and sought solutions for their problems related to various departments..
20-12-2021||Mumbai||Will our bandh restraining order have any impact on political parties: HC||MUMBAI: The Bombay high court (HC), while wondering aloud whether its orders restraining bandhs in the state would have any effect on political parties, directed the state to respond to the public interest litigation (PIL) filed by former police commissioner Julio Ribeiro and three others. The PIL in question seeks to penalise the political parties which called for a statewide bandh on October 11 to protest the Lakhimpur Kheri incident, and to restrain political parties from calling bandhs in future as they are unconstitutional.A division bench of chief justice Dipankar Datta and justice Makarand Karnik while hearing the PIL filed by Ribeiro, 92; Gerson Da Cunha, 92; Dattatraya Sukhtankar, 89; and Cyruz Guzder, 76; was informed that the October 11 bandh was unprecedented and called by the three parties in power in the state.The PIL stated that it was understandable that a bandh was called by opposition parties or their members but this bandh was called by the MVA government comprising the Shiv Sena, the Congress and the Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) and hence, caused losses to the tune of Rs3,000 crore to the state exchequer.The PIL added that the bandh was unconstitutional as it affected citizens’ rights and therefore illegal and hence sought directions to the ruling allies to pay, jointly and/or severally, exemplary damages/compensation to the union of India and the state of Maharashtra and to the affected citizens/persons, through a bandh loss compensation fund, 2021.The bench appreciated the petitioners’ concerns and stated, “Who is to identify who is affected and the extent of him being affected and how much compensation he should be given?” The court questioned whether its order restraining bandhs would have any effect. “Even if we order that no bandh should be allowed henceforth, do you think that our orders will be imposed? It requires a change of mindset,” said chief justice Datta. The bench then directed the state government to file an affidavit in response to the petition and posted the matter for further hearing on February 14.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/will-our-bandh-restraining-order-have-any-impact-on-political-parties-hc-101640019447909.html
20-12-2021||Patna||Cold wave likely to hit south Bihar; Patna DM orders change in school timings||The authorities in the state capital have asked all private and government schools to change timings due to severe cold and fog.Patna district magistrate (DM) Chandrashekhar Singh on Monday ordered the change of school timings, which would come into effect from December 21.He said, “School managements have been instructed to commence classes after 9am and disperse latest by 3.30 pm. The new timing will remain effective till the next order.”Meanwhile, Patna Meteorological Centre has warned of a cold wave over South-west parts of the state on Tuesday.Weathermen said that the state witnessed a further decline in the minimum temperature by two to three degrees. As per the MeT centre, the average maximum temperature in the state hovered around 22°C while the minimum temperature was around 8°C. Gaya remained the coldest in the state with the lowest minimum temperature of 4.1°C.As per daily bulletin issued on Monday, Patna recorded a minimum temperature of 6.7°C, Bhagalpur 8.4°C, Purnea 8.3°C, Motihari 8.5°C, Aurangabad 6.4°C, Nalanda 6.7°C and Samastipur 6.5°C. Visibility in the morning hours reduced to 600 meters in Purnea. Elaborating meteorological conditions, weatherman Zeeshan Ansari, said, “As per the current numerical model and radar observation, a cyclonic circulation is lying over central parts of Uttar Pradesh and Bihar which has extended over 1.5 km above mean sea level. North-westerly winds are prevailing in the state. As a result, parts of the state are likely to experience cold waves on Tuesday.”Patna Meteorological Centre has also issued a yellow-colour warning for cold waves at one or two places of Buxar, Rohtas, Bhabhua, Aurangabad, Arwal and Gaya where the minimum temperature is expected to hover around 4°C to 6°C.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/cold-wave-likely-to-hit-south-bihar-patna-dm-orders-change-in-school-timings-101640019327980.html
20-12-2021||Mumbai||Down slow line trains between Kalwa-Mumbra run on a new alignment||Thane: Following the 18-hour mega block on Sunday, the suburban trains on the down slow line from Kalwa to Mumbra have started running on a new alignment via tunnel number 1 from Monday onwards. This new setup is part of long-stretch construction work on the fifth and sixth line between Thane-Diva railway stations for diversion of trains to help avoid any obstructions or delays in the Central line for both suburban and outstation trains.After exiting tunnel 1, the trains will run on the current down slow line. Similarly, suburban trains on the up slow line from Mumbra to Kalwa will use the same route wherein after exiting the tunnel, they will run on the up slow line. There are a few more mega blocks planned in the future for the completion of work on the fifth and sixth lines. Thane-Diva is the busiest section of the suburban network of the Central Railways. The work of the fifth- and sixth-line project between the two stations was sanctioned in 2008 and since then, its cost rose from ₹130 crore to ₹440 crore. The 9-km stretch between Thane and Diva has four lines; however, if compared to the other stretches that have six to eight lines, this stretch, in particular, has a narrow section that delays local, suburban and outstation trains.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/down-slow-line-trains-between-kalwa-mumbra-run-on-a-new-alignment-101640019268720.html
20-12-2021||Lucknow||Three arrested with sedative injections, firearm in Prayagraj||In a major breakthrough, Dhumanganj police busted a gang involved in selling sedative injections to youths in the city and arrested three of its members with large quantities of injections along with a firearm and ammunition. The kingpin of the gang is still at large, police said. Circle officer Santosh Kumar Singh said acting on a tip-off SHO of Dhumanganj police station Anup Singh, sub-inspector Durgesh Singh, and their team raided HIG Park in Newa area and nabbed three persons, who were found there in suspicious circumstances. The trio was identified as Vivek Anand of Kotwali area, Amit Yadav of Pritam Nagar and Pankaj Mishra of EWS colony in Dhumanganj. As many as 42 vials of Avil Pheniramine injections, 52 bottles of Buprenorphine injections, 50 needles, 10 syringes, eight mobiles and ₹1640 in cash were recovered from the accused. A country made firearm and three live cartridges were also found on Pankaj Mishra. Questioning the accused revealed that the trio was involved in supplying sedative injections to addicted youths for a long time. Moreover, they also used to trap youths and make them used to drugs. They further informed that they used to purchase the injections from one Rajjan Pasi of Tadbagh area of Dhumnaganj. A case has been registered against them under 8/21 NDPS Act, Arms Act and other relevant sections of IPC, and they were being questioned further, CO added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/three-arrested-with-sedative-injections-firearm-in-prayagraj-101640017589461.html
20-12-2021||Lucknow||Income tax raids trigger cartoon war between SP, BJP in Uttar Pradesh||Income tax raids on Samajwadi Party (SP) leaders have become the new flash point in poll-bound Uttar Pradesh (UP) with the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and the main opposition party using cartoons to spar with each other. The Samajwadi Party also put up a poster outside its party headquarters in Lucknow that essentially said that SP had Akhilesh, while the BJP had central agencies, including income tax, enforcement directorate and the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI). While the income tax department that had carried out a survey on Samajwadi Party leaders considered close to party chief Akhilesh Yadav, remained tight-lipped even after over 36 hours of the whole exercise, the SP chief on Monday shared a cartoon that led to the BJP’s counter. The income tax dept has reportedly wound up its assessment on SP national spokesman Rajiv Rai though assessment had still not officially concluded on some leaders in Lucknow. The cartoon that Akhilesh shared on Twitter showed “on election duty” written on a vehicle of the income tax department to drive home his point that the income tax exercise on his party leaders just ahead of the elections was politically motivated. In the run-up to the 2022 UP polls, Yadav’s party has emerged as the chief opposition player that is trying to stop the ruling BJP from a second successive stint in power in the most populous state. The cartoon that Akhilesh shared went viral in no time as the SP chief had mentioned lines from the Hindu holy book Ramcharitmanas with the cartoon. The lines went thus:“Hit anhit pashu pakshioo jaana, manus tanu ganu gyan nidhana (amid the sages, animals roam without fear but run away at the sight of hunters. How can human beings not be aware of that what animals know instinctively).” The SP leaders, whose premises were searched included Jainendra Yadav, a close aide of Akhilesh Yadav. His Vishal Khand-Gomtinagar residence in the state capital was searched. The others whose premises were searched were party spokesperson Rajiv Rai (at Mau district’s Sahadatpura) and contractor Manoj Yadav from Punjabi Bagh locality of Mainpuri, who is believed to be close to the SP chief and a Lucknow-based businessman. Akhilesh’s cartoon jibe at the BJP drew a counter from the ruling party, which responded with another one that showed Akhilesh stating “Yogi hai, anupayogi (Yogi is unsuitable)” even as income tax sleuths held a bird on which it was written “income disproportionate to known sources of income.”Income tax sleuths were also shown holding a briefcase on which it was written “on national duty.” This tweet by the BJP, too, went viral even as top leaders of both BJP and the SP spoke on the raids.Chief minister Yogi Adityanath had on Sunday said that income tax raids had rattled the Samajwadi Party. In response, the SP chief charged the BJP with misusing the central agencies for poll gains. Adityanath had targeted the main opposition party’s accusations against the government reflected a ‘guilty conscience’.He had also said that the “wealth of some people went up by 200 times in five years of Samajwadi Party rule.” Deputy chief minister Keshav Prasad Maurya also defended the raids. He said only the corrupt fear it even as the SP found support from several opposition parties on the issue.Asked about the outcome of the tax survey findings on SP leaders, a tax official not associated with the survey said such assessment exercises are usually a long-drawn affair.“Usually, these surveys and assessments stretch for long and there is a long procedural part, which includes cheque books and balance sheets of those surveyed,” a tax official said.
20-12-2021||Lucknow||Absconding criminal with ₹50k award arrested by UP STF from Jaipur||An absconding criminal, with an award of ₹50K on his head, was arrested by a team of Special Task Force (STF) of UP police from Jaipur, Rajasthan, on Sunday.According to a press statement issued by the UP STF, one Afzal alias Raju, 51, was absconding for the last two years in cases related to an attempt to murder and other cases.“Afzal was a member of a D2 Gang, which is now known as IS273. The accused is a native of Kanpur district and was wanted in over a dozen cases lodged in different police stations in Kanpur and Kanpur Dehat,” reads the press statement. In total, 29 cases are lodged against Afzal in different police stations of Kanpur.According to STF officials, Afzal was currently living in Jaipur under an alias of Raju. He kept a low profile and used to coordinate with his gang members using different phone numbers from there.Afzal rarely visited Uttar Pradesh fearing police action. STF used its ground and mobile surveillance to locate him in Jaipur and sent a team to arrest him, according to the press statement. The accused was brought to Uttar Pradesh on transit remand.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/absconding-criminal-with-50k-award-arrested-by-up-stf-from-jaipur-101640017173031.html
20-12-2021||Mumbai||No new Omicron case, Mumbai reports zero Covid death||Mumbai While the new Covid cases continued to remain above 500 in Maharashtra, no new case of Omicron was reported in the state on Monday. Maharashtra on Monday recorded 544 new Covid cases along with four deaths.A total of 54 patients have been infected with this new variant to date of which 31 have been discharged due to negative RT-PCR test.The total number of cases to date has now reached 66,50,140, while the deaths have reached 1,41,353. Mumbai recorded 191 new cases with zero deaths with its total tally of cases to 7,67,241.There were 87,002 tests done on Monday while the number of recoveries clocked was 515.The active cases have now reached 7,093 with Mumbai leading with 2,061, followed by Pune with 1,912 and Thane with 1,035.The death toll has now reached 1,41,353 with Pune again leading with 19,765 deaths followed by Mumbai with 16,365 patients and Thane with 11,585.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/no-new-omicron-case-mumbai-reports-zero-covid-death-101640015787713.html
20-12-2021||Patna||Railway engineer in Bihar sells steam engine at rly station, suspended: Official||PURNIA: A railway engineer of Samastipur Loco Diesel Shed allegedly sold off an abandoned steam engine lying at Purnia Court railway station in connivance with officials and security personnel, officials aware of the matter said.A First Information Report was registered on a complaint by the Purnia court railway station given to the Banmankhi RPF post. The FIR names seven people including the engineer and a security official posted at loco diesel shed.The railway protection force (RPF) has recovered one part of the engine from Purnia’s Gulabbagh area.Divisional railway manager (DRM) Samastipur rail division Alok Agrawal, said engineer Rajiv Ranjan Jha, a security official and a helper have been placed under suspension. “We have ordered a probe,” the DRM saidAn official in the East Central Railways said the engineer sold the old steam engine on the basis of a forged letter claimed to have been issued by Samastipur’s divisional mechanical engineer (DME).It is alleged that on December 14, the engineer reached Purnia Court railway station and ordered staffers to cut the engine with a gas cutter. When the outpost in-charge MM Rehman objected, he showed him a forged letter of DME Samastipur. He also said that the scrap from the engine will be sent back to the diesel shed.Divisional security commissioner AK Lal said, “During preliminary investigation, the letter was found to be fake and the shed too denied issuance of such letter.”Investigators are yet to arrest the man who bought the old engine as scrap.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/railway-engineer-in-bihar-sells-steam-engine-at-rly-station-suspended-official-101640015307978.html
20-12-2021||Lucknow||BJP govt should give jobs instead of smartphones, says BSP leader||Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) national general secretary Satish Chandra Mishra on Monday said the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) government in Uttar Pradesh should give jobs to the youths instead of smartphones and tablets. The BSP leader was addressing a public meeting at Mirzapur in eastern Uttar Pradesh. The BJP government’s work is limited to hoardings, banners, posters and advertisements, Mishra said.The welfare schemes and development projects announced by the state government were confined to paper, he alleged, adding that the BJP government has failed to fulfil the people’s aspirations. Satish Chandra Mishra called upon the Brahmin community members to support the Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) in the Uttar Pradesh assembly election. Members of all communities, including Brahmins had been safe and had lived with dignity under BSP rule, he said.He also claimed the BJP government converted Kashi Vishawanath temple and Vindhyadham into tourist spots and the aim is to raise funds rather than serving the people or respecting their religious sentiments. The BSP leader said both the SP and BJP promote members of a particular community while others are neglected. He further alleged the farmers, traders, labourers, youths and women are harassed under the BJP government. Akhilesh Rakesh, son of former Congress MP Ram Nihor Rakesh, and Satyansh Shekhar Mishra, a social worker from Sonbhadra district, joined the BSP.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/bjp-govt-should-give-jobs-instead-of-smartphones-says-bsp-leader-101640015067878.html
20-12-2021||Lucknow||Uttar Pradesh chief secretary asks for mock drills to assess Covid preparedness at health facilities||Uttar Pradesh chief secretary Rajendra Kumar Tiwari on Monday directed commissioners and district magistrates (DMs) across the state to conduct mock drills at health facilities, including availability of beds, equipment, oxygen, ventilators in the state, to assess Covid preparedness in view of an increasing number of Omicron cases in the country.“All DMs must once personally inspect hospitals and take measures accordingly,” the Uttar Pradesh chief secretary said.He said the public address systems and integrated control rooms should be activated without any delay.The Uttar Pradesh chief secretary also asked officials to enforce the fixed protocol for international flights, and ensure compliance of masking and social distancing norms. He told them to see to it that people who had not taken any vaccine shots got one at the earliest. Cow protection centresThe chief secretary also reviewed arrangements in cow protection centres and night shelters. Tiwari asked DMs to ensure weekly physical inspection of these places. No human being and cattle should die due to cold wave, he warned.Good governance week till Dec 25The Uttar Pradesh chief secretary said that the government had decided to observed ‘good governance week’ from December 20 to 25 with a view to improving public service delivery.He asked commissioners and DMs to ensure that public complaints were disposed of quickly and to the satisfaction of the complainants. He asked the officials send a report on works that would be done during the good governance week to the department of general administration.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/uttar-pradesh-chief-secretary-asks-for-mock-drills-to-assess-covid-preparedness-at-health-facilities-101640013327613.html
20-12-2021||Lucknow||Active Covid cases cross 200 mark in Uttar Pradesh||The active Covid cases (number of patients under treatment) in Uttar Pradesh crossed the 200-mark on Monday with 27 fresh instances of the coronavirus infection reported across the state during the day, including 10 in Lucknow.There are 203 active Covid cases in the state now, according to additional chief secretary (medical health) Amit Mohan Prasad.“There were 27 new Covid cases reported from 1,52,506 samples tested while 20 patients recovered in the past 24 hours,” said Prasad. He advised all to follow the Covid protocol, adding that all those eligible should take the Covid vaccine doses.Among fresh Covid cases in state, 10 were reported in Lucknow. Eight of them were fresh cases while two were found positive in the repeat test. At present, only two Covid patients are admitted to hospitals in Lucknow.Two of a family in Jankipuram tested positive after they returned from Uttarakhand recently. Two others from the Indira Nagar area are from one family. The son, who returned from Gurugram, and his mother tested positive.Three residents tested positive after returning from Agra, Punjab, and Bihar, and one person tested positive before surgery.“Contact tracing of each positive case is being done and samples are being sent for genome sequencing of travellers from other states,” said Dr Manoj Agrawal, the chief medical officer of Lucknow.“Lucknow has till now reported 2,38,943 Covid cases, including 2651 deaths, and 48 active cases under treatment at present,” said Dr Abhishek Shukla, secretary general, Association of International Doctors.Uttar Pradesh has till now reported 17,10,722 Covid cases, including 22,915 deaths.“A majority of patients who tested positive in past one week had mild symptoms and did not require hospitalisation. Their regular health follow-up is being done by teams at the Covid command centre,” said Dr Agrawal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/active-covid-cases-cross-200-mark-in-uttar-pradesh-101640012307611.html
20-12-2021||Lucknow||Omicron threat: LMC directs employees to get Covid jab, organises vax camps||The Lucknow Municipal Corporation has ordered all its employees to get vaccinated following the outbreak of Omicron in the state capital. Lucknow Municipal Corporation has been conducting special vaccination camps for employees who have not yet taken the first or second dose of the vaccine at each of its zonal offices since Tuesday, officials said.As part of its internal communication, LMC explained to hesitant employees the dangers of the Covid pandemic since it spreads very quickly and encouraged them to get vaccinated as soon as possible.Commissioner Ajay Dwivedi said, “The lives of all LMC employees are important to us, they are the frontline workers who will have to work day and night, so they need vaccinations to protect themselves from the lethal infection. It has been decided to make a list of all employees who have yet to take their first or second shot of the vaccine. The camp has been organised for them to get vaccinated and secure themselves before serving the masses in the days to come.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/omicron-threat-lmc-directs-employees-to-get-covid-jab-organises-vax-camps-101640011708757.html
20-12-2021||Mumbai||20 dozen Devgad hapus reaches Navi Mumbai, next lot in 20 days||NAVI MUMBAI It may be the middle of winter but the first lot of Devgad Alphonso mangoes – five boxes containing a dozen mangoes each – has already reached the Navi Mumbai APMC market Monday morning.“It’s a commendable job by the farmers who fought climatic conditions and global warming and managed to get the first fruit of the 2022 mango season in December 2021 itself. The mangoes were sold at Rs3,000 to Rs4,000 per dozen to Crawford market, Peddar road, Linking road, Juhu and Ghatkopar,” director of the fruit market and mango trader Sanjay Pansare said. The next lot is expected in 20 days. “From January onwards, the stock coming will increase,” Pansare added.Farmer Arvind Walkhe, 65, from Kunkedhwar in Devgad who has been producing mangoes during this time since the last five years said, “Regular pesticide and fungicide spraying is what helps me get the fruit in the month of December for five years now. The trees start flowering in the month of July. In most cases when it started raining and flooding, farmers don’t step out for spraying. But I make sure to do it every two days. That helps me with the results too. Even when there is heavy flooding, I go for spraying. The sprays used are expensive and cost Rs5,000 to Rs6,000 per litre,” Arvind Walkhe said. His son Sitaram Walkhe, 36, also helps him with farming now.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/20-dozen-devgad-hapus-reaches-navi-mumbai-next-lot-in-20-days-101640010807562.html
20-12-2021||Lucknow||AKTU extends last date for odd sem exam fee submission to December 25||The last date for submission of fee of Dr APJ Abdul Kalam Technical University exam for odd semester session 2021-22 has been extended till December 25, 2021, said controller of examinations, Prof Anurag Tripathi.The last date for filling the examination form has not been increased, only the permission for depositing the fee has been given till the date December 25, he added.Prof Tripathi has issued a letter informing that if the fee for the examination form has not been deposited by students appearing in the examinations of the odd semester session 2021-22 of the university, then all such students can deposit the online fee till December 25, 2021.It is to be cleared that till now the last date for filling the form and depositing the fee was December 20, 2021, an official said.
20-12-2021||Mumbai||Omicron cases in Maha: Over 80% breakthrough infections||Mumbai More than 80% of the Omicron cases detected in the state since December 4 are breakthrough infections- that is among people who are fully vaccinated. State health authorities said that the Omicron cohort is still too small to conclude the behaviour of the highly mutated virus, but preliminary observations highlight its immune escaping nature which should be considered as a point of caution. Of the 54 Omicron cases detected in Maharashtra till December 19, 44 are among fully vaccinated people. Among the remaining 10 cases, two people were unvaccinated but one of them had contracted Covid-19 in the past, and eight were minors and thus not eligible for the jabs. “As seen globally, the new variant does evade immunity developed through vaccination or previous infection,” said Maharashtra surveillance officer Dr Pradeep Awate. “But we cannot ignore the fact that all the patients had a mild and asymptomatic infection and the vaccination has an important role in this,” he said. A majority of people in Maharashtra and the rest of the country have received the Oxford University and AstraZeneca’s vaccine-Covishield. In comparison, a small percentage of the population has received Covaxin developed by Indian company Bharat Biotech. Preliminary studies have shown Omicron’s ability to evade through the immunity developed by most of the widely used vaccines. Newly published observations by researchers at Cambridge University pointed that the new mutant could cheat existing immunity but it could not cause replication of cells, which is perhaps why it causes a milder disease. “Little is known about whether the mild disease caused by Omicron is due to the virus’ inherent nature or because of the vaccination,” said infectious disease expert Dr Tanu Singhal. “Some studies have shown that a previous Covid-19 infection offered 80% protection against the Delta variant, but it offers only 20% protection against Omicron. It is therefore clear that we will see a rise in cases by January-February. Our health systems should be prepared as given our population, the magnitude of the cases could be high,” she said. Maharashtra has recorded over 6.6 million Covid cases. The state’s full vaccination coverage has touched 54% and its first dose vaccination coverage is 86%. “We have broad exposure to the virus including the Delta variant. But only time will tell if our population will behave differently with Omicron compared to the other countries,” said Dr Singhal. In the UK, for instance, 90% population has taken at least one dose, 82% has taken two doses and a large chunk of the population has taken booster shots. Yet, the country’s daily caseload has been nearing 90,000 over the past few days and it has been recording more than 100 deaths. PREPARE FOR THIRD WAVE Health experts said that data on how the virus will behave in senior citizens and the immunocompromised population is not available, but if the caseload increase, hospitalisations are likely. “The Omicron variant has not caused any Intensive Care Unit (ICU) admissions or a surge in oxygen requirement,” said Dr Om Srivastava, a member of Maharashtra’s Covid-19 task force. “But we should be prepared for a third wave which is likely in February. If the numbers increase, some hospitalisations are bound to happen,” he said. Assuming that Omicron continues to cause only mild disease, doctors called for refined home isolation and institutional isolation protocol in the state so that patients don’t unnecessarily crowd hospitals.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/omicron-cases-in-maha-over-80-breakthrough-infections-101640008227543.html
20-12-2021||Lucknow||Uttar Pradesh now known for development, not riots, says Deputy CM Dinesh Sharma during BJP yatra||Uttar Pradesh is no longer infamous for riots but is now known for a number of development works, including expressways and international airports, deputy chief minister Dinesh Sharma said on Monday.Dinesh Sharma was leading the Jan Vishwas Yatra of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) in Aligarh. He also referred to income tax raids on places associated with those close to Samajwadi Party leaders and justified them. The yatra, which chief minister Yogi Adityanath had flagged off in Mathura on Sunday, took the shape of a road show while passing through the old city areas of Aligarh in western Uttar Pradesh. The road show began at Kalawati Palace on the Khair bypass and, after crossing Aligarh city, reached Harduaganj. After Atrauli, the home to former BJP leader the late Kalyan Singh, the yatra moved towards Kasganj district in the evening. “Uttar Pradesh is changing now. It is now not known for riots, which used to take place in the previous regimes of the non-BJP parties. Now, UP is known for development undertaken during the BJP regime in state. Earlier, there was goonda raj. Now, law and order prevails. Criminals are either in jail or out of the state. The state got multi-crore investment even during the pandemic,” Dinesh Sharma said. “Expressways and international airports are coming up. New schools and colleges are opening and 12 universities are in the process of being set up. People in UP acknowledge that BJP has worked on the ground and is against any appeasement,” DInesh Sharma further said.“Income tax raids have taken place because no wrongdoing is to be spared. He may be from any party whatsoever, the law will take its course and guilty will be punished,” he said.Ministers of state Chaudhary Udaybhan Singh and Sandeep Singh, Etah MP Rajveer Singh Raju, BJP state spokesperson Alok Awasthi and the party’s media incharge for Braj region Nawal Tyagi were present during the Jan Vishwas Yatra in Aligarh. 
20-12-2021||Mumbai||Elgar Parishad case: HC extends Varavara Rao’s bail till Jan 7||Mumbai The Bombay high court on Monday extended till January 7 the medical bail granted to Elgar Parishad case accused P Varavara Rao after perusing his medical reports and allowed his counsel to file a short affidavit till December 30. The medical summary report submitted by the Nanavati hospital on December 16 based on the tests conducted by various experts stated that Rao’s condition was stable. Rao’s counsel however wanted to file a short affidavit which the court allowed. The division bench of justice Nitin Jamdar and justice Sarang Kotwal, which is hearing the extension of medical bail application of Rao, was informed by senior advocate Anand Grover that after perusing the medical reports it was clear that Rao deserved an extension. He referred to the February 22 order which granted bail for six months and said that in light of the observation that due to his age, the authorities should ensure that Rao is not having any ailments and as the medical reports stated that Rao had age-related problems hence the bail should be extended. Grover further submitted that a short affidavit in light of the medical reports was necessitated and hence the bench should grant a further extension for Rao to surrender. The court accepted the request. However, additional solicitor general Anil Singh for the national investigation agency opposed the request and said that such extensions would go on perpetually if Rao was not asked to surrender. “He has to surrender, why keep delaying it,” said Singh. The court thereafter noted that Rao’s counsel had a right to respond after seeing the medical reports and was granted the extension only in light of the February 22 order. Directing Grover to file the reply by December 30, the bench posted a hearing of the application to January 4.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/elgar-parishad-case-hc-extends-varavara-rao-s-bail-till-jan-7-101640007687376.html
20-12-2021||Lucknow||Former BJP MLA joins Samajwadi Party ahead of Uttar Pradesh assembly polls||Former Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) MLA from Ballia Ram Iqbal Singh, a known critic of his party’s government in Uttar Pradesh, on Monday joined the Samajwadi Party (SP) ahead of the 2022 Uttar Pradesh assembly polls.The party tweeted a picture of Ram Iqbal Singh with Samajwadi Party chief Akhilesh Yadav.The tweet in Hindi said: “SP’s growing caravan... Former BJP MLA from Chilkahar assembly constituency in Ballia Ram Iqbal Singh joined the SP, along with his associates, reposing faith in the leadership of (its) national president (Akhilesh Yadav).”Singh, also a former member of the BJP state executive committee, was elected MLA from the Chilkahar constituency in the 2002 UP assembly elections.Following the delimitation of assembly constituencies in 2008, Chilkahar ceased to exist.On October 14, Singh had accused Union minister of state for home Ajay Kumar Mishra ‘Teni’ of being behind the Lakhimpur violence and sought his sacking by Prime Minister Narendra Modi.He had earlier said bureaucrats are running the government in the state and had also raised a question mark on the handling of the second Covid wave by the Yogi Adityanath government.On November 10, Ram Iqbal Singh had taken a dig at Yogi Adityanath, suggesting that if he is removed from the post of the chief minister, he will immediately become a monk.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/former-bjp-mla-joins-samajwadi-party-ahead-of-uttar-pradesh-assembly-polls-101640003187163.html
20-12-2021||Gurugram||Gurugram: Water supply to new sectors 111-115 likely to start from March||Residents of new sectors from 111 to 115 will get water supply from March next year as around 85% of the infrastructure works, such as laying pipelines, have been completed, said officials from the Gurugram Metropolitan Development Authority (GMDA). Pardeep Kumar, chief engineer, infrastructure-II division of GMDA, said, “The areas falling in the jurisdiction of sectors 81-110 are getting water supply. We will start water supply for sectors 111 to 115 from March next year. Works, such as laying pipelines and other infrastructure for water supply, is being undertaken on priority as many people have started residing in these sectors and occupation certificates are also being issued. The work was affected due to a ban on construction activities for the past one and half months...we will start work from Monday.” Officials said since the usage of water is less during winters, hence residents are not facing any problem, but work is underway to increase water supply before the next summer. Works have been expedited on a 250m-long line functional near the under-construction boosting station at Sector 72. This boosting station will provide water to residents from sectors 68-80 during the summer months, when demand is high. GMDA officials said currently, Gurugram has a capacity to treat 570MLD of water; of which 513 MLD is treated everyday. During winters, there’s a demand of around 400-450MLD of water while in summers, it increases to 500MLD or more. With increasing population, GMDA is expecting the demand for water supply also to increase. “With increasing population, we will need another unit of 100 MLD to meet the increasing demand for water. A project for the same was approved by the chief minister during GMDA’s ninth board meeting. This water treatment plant, which will be constructed at an estimated cost of ₹110 crore, will be completed in two years,” said Kumar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/gurugram-water-supply-to-new-sectors-111-115-likely-to-start-from-march-101640001147056.html
20-12-2021||Other||Assam govt seeks to amend cattle preservation law 4 months after it was passed in assembly||Four months after it was passed in the state assembly, Assam’s BJP-led government has sought amendments to the Cattle Preservation Bill that regulates transportation, slaughter and sale of cattle, beef and beef products. The legislation, which was passed in August in the budget session of the assembly, had been criticized by opposition parties due to the strict restrictions. The government will table an amendment bill for the law in the winter session of THE state assembly which began on Monday. “We want to change two important provisions of the Bill. Earlier, when we used to recover illegally transported cattle, while the animals are sent to cow shelters, the vehicles used to transport them used to be in our custody,” chief minister Himanta Biswa Sarma said. “The first amendment would allow us to auction off the seized vehicles after taking permission of the court. This will empower officials and also bring in additional revenue,” he added. The second amendment would allow inter-district transportation of cattle for agricultural and animal husbandry purposes except in 8 districts that border Bangladesh and Bhutan. The present law restricts inter-district transportation without permits issued by the competent authority. The Bill bans inter-state transport of cows through Assam to control their smuggling to neighbouring Bangladesh. It also bans the transport of cattle from other states through Assam to places outside the state. Transport of cattle from any place within Assam to places outside the state “where the slaughter of cattle is not regulated by law” is also banned. Transport of cattle from places outside Assam to any place within the state is also be banned by the legislation. Further, the movement of cattle from one place within the state to another located in Assam will also be restricted. However, the competent authority may issue a permit for the transport of cattle for bona-fide agricultural or animal husbandry purposes. The Bill bans the sale of beef in areas that have a predominant population of Hindus, Sikhs, Jains and other non-beef-eating communities or within a radius of 5 km of any temple, ‘satra’ (Vaishnavite monastery) “or other religious institutions belonging to Hindu religion”. Violations of the provisions of the Bill could lead to imprisonment for three to eight years and a fine between ₹3 lakh and ₹5 lakh. Besides the amendment Bill for cattle preservation law, the state government would table 13 other amendment legislations and new legislation for setting up a commission to regulate recruitment to Class III and Class IV posts. 
20-12-2021||Delhi||Ajay Mishra Teni skips event amid calls for his resignation||NEW DELHI: Union minister of state for home Ajay Mishra Teni skipped the Sashastra Seema Bal’s (SSB) 58th foundation day ceremony at the last minute amid calls for his resignation. Teni was supposed to attend the event in Delhi as a chief guest. But his ministerial colleague Nisith Pramanik instead attended the ceremony, which was closed for the media.A spokesperson for the Union home ministry said Teni could not attend the event because of some urgent work, without elaborating.Opposition protests have rocked Parliament over the demand to sack Teni, whose son Ashish Mishra is facing an attempt to murder charges for allegedly mowing down four protesting farmers and a journalist in Uttar Pradesh’s Lakhimpur Kheri on October 3.A court in Uttar Pradesh last week added stringent charges to the police complaints against Ashish Mishra and 12 other accused. This came after a special investigation team said the Lakhimpur Kheri violence was a “deliberate, pre-planned conspiracy”. This touched off protests in Parliament where Opposition parties demanded that Teni should resign for an impartial probe and stalled the House.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/ajay-mishra-teni-skips-event-amid-calls-for-his-resignation-101639998146826.html
20-12-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab, Haryana freeze as cold wave tightens grip on region||Punjab and Haryana were in the grip of a cold wave on Monday, with Amritsar and Hisar recording minimum temperatures of 0.8 and 0.2 degrees Celsius, respectively. Also read: Punjab elections: Age no limit for Badal Senior, launches campaign from LambiAccording to the meteorological department, the night temperature continued to hover below the season’s normal levels at most places in the two states. Hisar was the coldest place in Haryana, recording a temperature that is eight degrees below normal. Ambala recorded a low of 5.1 degrees, Narnaul 1.3 degrees, Rohtak 2.6 degrees, Karnal 3.4 degrees, Sirsa 3.2 degrees, Fatehabad 3.1 degrees, and Bhiwani 2.5 degrees, while Gurugram registered a minimum of 7 degrees Celsius. In Punjab, Moga recorded a low of 0.4 degrees Celsius, Amritsar 0.8 degrees, Bathinda 1 degree, Faridkot 1.1 degree, Ludhiana 4.4, Patiala 3.9, Barnala 0.9, Jalandhar 2.6 and Mohali 4.4 degrees Celsius. Chandigarh, the common capital of the two states, recorded a low of 3.3 degrees Celsius. Though the fog was moderate in the Majha region, ground frost conditions prevailed. Disrict agriculture development officer (ADO) Parjeet Singh Aulakh said, “The extreme cold is good for the wheat crop but it damages vegetables sown in this season. To prevent the damage, we are advising farmers to keep their fields irrigated properly.” According to the Punjab Agricultural University’s observatory at the Bathinda-based regional research centre, the minimum temperature in the city has been below 6 degrees for the last 10 days. The maximum temperature in Bathinda on Sunday was 19.4 degrees and the minimum was minus 0.8 degree Celsius. Till last Monday, the maximum temperature was hovering between 20-27 degrees Celsius but since December 14, the day’s maximum temperature has continued to fall and hit 13 degrees Celsius on December 16. Farm experts say the conditions are good for rabi crops, including wheat and mustard.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-haryana-freeze-as-cold-wave-tightens-grip-on-region-101639998087144.html
20-12-2021||Mumbai||Central agencies acting against Oppn leaders at Fadnavis’s behest: Nawab Malik||Maharashtra minister Nawab Malik on Monday accused central agencies of acting against the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)’s opponents at former chief minister Devendra Fadnavis’s behest.“From the last seven years, Fadnavis has been directing the central agencies to take action against the BJP’s opponents. (Nationalist Congress Party chief) Sharad Pawar was given notice and now I am the latest target,” said Malik. “It is our demand that Fadnavis be appointed the OSD (officer on special duty) of these agencies. (BJP leader) Kirit Somaiya, who is shouting against us, should be appointed as the spokesperson for the agencies.”Malik said he will not be cowed down by the harassment of the agencies. He added Shiv Sena-led Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government will complete its five-year tenure. Malik said BJP has sensed defeat in Uttar Pradesh elections and has influenced central agencies to act against Opposition Samajwadi Party leaders in the northern state.Malik earlier levelled a series of allegations against the Narcotics Control Bureau officer Sameer Wankhede.BJP legislator Ram Kadam said the central agencies were acting as watchdogs to the alleged wrongdoings of the MVA ministers and initiating action. “The MVA government is also inquiring against us but we are ready to face any fair probe.”
20-12-2021||Delhi||Cold wave in parts of Delhi may ease from Wednesday, rain likely: IMD||The cold wave sweeping Delhi will stop from Wednesday and there will be an improvement starting from Tuesday night, a senior scientist at the India Meteorological Department (IMD) said on Monday.“Delhi's temperature is between 3 to 4 degrees Celcius and December 18 and 19 were cold days. The cold wave, which starts today, will stop from December 22 onwards, with an improvement starting from tomorrow night. Rainfall is likely on December 24,” RK Jenamani, IMD senior scientist, was quoted as saying by news agency ANI.Jenamani said two back-to-back western disturbances and the resultant slowing down of cold northwesterly winds from Tuesday night will push Delhi’s minimum temperature up.Also read | Delhi wakes up to coldest day of the season; mercury falls to 4.4°CHe added the minimum temperature is likely to rise to 6 to 7 degrees Celsius under the influence of these two western disturbances between December 22 and December 25. The minimum temperature at the Safdarjung Observatory, which is considered the official marker for the national capital, dropped to 3.2 degrees Celsius, five notches below normal and the lowest this season so far.The automatic weather station at Jaffarpur village in west Delhi recorded a low of 2.9 degrees Celsius, six notches below normal. The weather station at Lodhi Road logged a minimum temperature of 3.1 degrees Celsius against the average of 7 degrees Celsius.Also read | Yellow alert for extreme cold in Delhi today: What does this mean?Most of the other places recorded the minimum temperature between three degrees Celsius and six degrees Celsius, and at least three notches below normal, according to the IMD data.The IMD predicted severe cold wave conditions in parts of northwest India till December 21. A bone-chilling "severe" cold wave swept parts of Haryana, Punjab, Rajasthan and Himachal Pradesh on Sunday with Churu in Rajasthan reporting the lowest minimum temperature of minus 2.6 degrees Celsius in northwest India followed by Sikar (minus 2.5 degrees Celsius) and Amritsar (minus 0.5 degree Celsius).Also read | Cold wave to continue today, tomorrow in parts of northwestern IndiaJenamani also said the situation in east Rajasthan, the worst hit with cold waves, is improving on Monday along with that in Punjab.“East UP, Odisha, Jharkhand, Bihar, Chhattisgarh, MP, WB and Delhi will experience cold waves from today till December 22, after which the western disturbance hits,” he told ANI.IMD declares a cold wave in the plains if the minimum temperature drops to 4 degrees Celsius. A cold wave is also declared when the minimum temperature is 10 degrees Celsius or below and is 4.5 notches less than normal.A "severe" cold wave is when the minimum temperature dips to two degrees Celsius or the departure from normal is more than 6.4 degrees Celsius. When the minimum temperature is less than or equal to 10 degrees Celsius and the maximum temperature is at least 4.5 degrees Celsius below the normal, it is said to be a 'cold day'.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/cold-wave-in-parts-of-delhi-may-ease-from-wednesday-rain-likely-imd-101639993840565.html
20-12-2021||Mumbai||‘Shiv Sena is a staunch Hindutvawadi party’: Sanjay Raut rebuts Amit Shah||MUMBAI: A day after union home minister and senior Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader Amit Shah dared chief minister Uddhav Thackeray to resign and fight elections again, the Shiv Sena on Monday delivered its comeback, challenging the BJP to resign its 105 seats in the assembly and see how many it wins without the support of the Shiv Sena and the central agencies.“We dare them (BJP) that all 105 legislators (who won in 2019 elections) must resign. Had it not been for Shiv Sena’s support, they would not have got this number. We dare them to resign and get re-elected on 105 seats,” Sena leader Sanjay Raut said in national capital Delhi.“You are roaming around with CBI, ED, and NCB in Maharashtra. We dare you to keep them away and then fight us. We will take attacks front on, and do not backstab,” he added, a reference to cases registered by the three federal agencies, Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI), Enforcement Directorate (NCB) and Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB), against leaders of the ruling coalition, Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA).Raut also responded to Amit Shah’s accusation that the Shiv Sena compromised with Hindutva for power. He underscored the Sena’s credentials as a “staunch Hindutvawadi party”“Shiv Sena has never let go of Hindutva, and it will never do so. In 2014, a staunch Hindutvawadi party like ours was cast aside for the sake of complete power. Amit Shah must tell everyone who was it that wanted to keep the Shiv Sena out... He (Shah) also said that we should contest solo. I wish to tell him that we contested solo in 2014 against an immense wave of money power and government power. We fought well under Uddhav Thackeray’s leadership and got the victory,” Raut said.Amit Shah’s criticism at a meeting of BJP workers in Pune was mostly directed at the Sena, which contested the 2019 state assembly elections in alliance with the BJP but parted ways over the issue of the chief minister’s post. Later, Thackeray joined hands with the Congress and Sharad Pawar’s Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) to form the Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government.Shah said the Sena betrayed the BJP for power and called the state’s ruling alliance a “punctured rickshaw” whose wheels are going in three different directions. “They (Sena) sat in the lap of the ones against whom they have been fighting for two generations,” he said.Raut said he understood the “frustration” of BJP leaders as the central agencies failed to topple the MVA government.Raut recalled that when the alliance was announced at a venue in Worli in 2019, both parties used the word “50-50 power-sharing”. “What does it mean? The 50-50 power-sharing [formula] included the chief minister post as well; do not lie, at least not in Pune, which is Shivaji Maharaj’s land. He must look into law and order in Karnataka where Shivaji Maharaj is being insulted.”Amit Shah’s sharp attacks on the Sena at Sunday’s meeting sounds the bugle for the elections to municipal corporations, including Mumbai and Pune, which are due early next year. The bitter war of words is expected to intensify between the two parties, as the Sena wants to keep control of the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) and gain control of the civic bodies in Pune and Pimpri Chinchwad with the help of the Nationalist Congress Party.
20-12-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab elections: Age no limit for Badal Senior, launches campaign from Lambi||Nonagenarian Akali patriarch Parkash Singh Badal launched his party’s poll campaign in the Lambi assembly segment of Muktsar district on Monday with eight public meetings. Also read: Punjab elections: Sidhu wants debate with Kejriwal, not Bhagwant MannAccompanied by his daughter-in-law and Lok Sabha member from Bathinda, Harsimrat Kaur Badal, the five-time former chief minister has been evading a direct reply on whether he will be contesting the 2022 elections or not. When pressed for an answer on Monday, he didn’t reveal his plans but expressed gratitude to the electors of Lambi who had made him victorious from the rural constituency for the past five elections. Badal, who celebrated his 94th birthday on December 8 has been contesting elections successfully from Lambi since 1997. Earlier, he represented the Gidderbaha segment for another five terms since 1969. The Shiromani Akali Dal has announced candidates for more than 80 seats. Lambi and Jalalabad are among the key seats from where the party has yet to announce its candidates. Former deputy chief minister and SAD president Sukhbir Singh Badal was elected from Jalalabad twice in 2009 and 2014. During his two terms, he tried to nurture the segment as a SAD bastion. But in the 2019 bypoll, the SAD had fielded Raj Singh Dibbipura, who lost to novice candidate of Congress Raminder Singh Awla. Parkash Singh Badal will be super CM: Harsimrat At a public meeting at Bhitti Wala village of Lambi segment on Monday, Harsimrat said people want Parkash Singh Badal to contest again. “On winning the elections, Sukhbir may be the chief minister, but Sardar Parkash Singh Badal ji will be super CM. He will remain the guiding force for the government,” she said. “It is the wish of the people of your constituency. You need not step out of your home as I will represent the family and shoulder the responsibility of campaigning,” she appealed to Badal Senior. Villagers and aides of Badal urged him to contest but he kept everyone guessing on his plans. Congress has done maximum damage to Punjab: Ex-CMAddressing the gathering, he said the coming elections are crucial for Punjab and Punjabis. He said the SAD is known to protect the social fabric and works for inclusive development. Badal said he owed his success in public life to voters in villages. “In my political career spanning seven decades, people voted for me to form governments and represent them. They even went to jails when I was imprisoned by political dispensations for raising their voice,” he said. “The Congress has done maximum damage to the state and to the spirit of Punjabiyat. Incidents of military action on Darbar Sahib, Amritsar, and the anti-Sikh riots of 1984 were the real faces of the Congress. Leaders of such a party should not be let in the village,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-elections-age-no-limit-for-badal-senior-launches-campaign-from-lambi-101639992566674.html
20-12-2021||Delhi||As air quality improves, CAQM lifts construction ban in Delhi-NCR||NEW DELHI: The Commission for Air Quality Management (CAQM) in the National Capital Region and adjoining areas on Monday lifted the ban on construction and demolition (C&D) activities in NCR and the ban on entry of petrol and diesel trucks into Delhi with immediate effect, citing an improvement in air quality over the past few days.In its order issued on Monday morning, CAQM said construction and demolition activities can resume immediately, but each site needed to follow the norms and guidelines laid down by the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB).All construction and demolition sites in Delhi and the NCR districts of Uttar Pradesh with a plot size of more than 500sqm will, however, also have to register themselves on a ‘web portal’ developed by the state governments for online monitoring by agencies. For Rajasthan and Haryana, where the web portal is yet to be commissioned, the registration process will need to be done latest by January 20, 2022, the CAQM said. HT has reviewed a copy of the order.Also Read: Political narrative on air quality management in India“Air quality in Delhi has improved from the ‘very poor’ category and has been in the ‘poor’ category consistently for the last three days. The meteorological and weather forecast by the Indian Meteorological Department (IMD) indicates continuation of this favourable trend of wind speed and climatic conditions to facilitate dispersion of pollutants from the region,” said the CAQM in its order on Monday, underlining that entry of trucks into Delhi was being allowed with immediate effect. “Construction and demolition activities will also now be permitted, with immediate effect, subject to persons and agencies undertaking C&D activities strictly complying with directions and orders for dust control norms issued by the commission from time to time as well as those under the Construction and Demolition Waste Management Rules and various CPCB guidelines in this regard,” said the order. The commission, however, clarified that all units and sites shut down by it or by state governments for violating the norms will not be allowed to reopen under this order. It said each project proponent will be required to approach the commission individually for a review.The commission first banned construction and demolition activities across NCR on November 16, 2021. This order, which exempted activities notified as “essential, was effective till November 21. The prohibition on construction activities in NCR was, however, re-imposed on November 24, and only non-polluting activities such as interior work, plumbing and electrical activities were allowed to continue. The states concerned were told to pay notified minimum wages to workers.CAQM extended the ban on December 17 but with relaxations to construction activities for hospitals, nursing homes and healthcare facilities; linear public projects such as highways, roads and flyover and sanitation and public utility projects such as sewage treatment plants and water pumping stations.The ban on entry of trucks into Delhi has been in place since the November 16 and was extended multiple times over the last one month. CAQM has already lifted the ban on physical classes at schools, colleges and educational institutes in NCR, along with restrictions on six out of 11 thermal power plants operating within a 300-km radius of Delhi. While the restrictions on thermal power plants were lifted on December 12, the restriction on schools and colleges was lifted five days later on December 17.The Air Quality Index (AQI) across NCR was hovering between the higher end of the ‘poor’ and the lower end of the ‘very poor’ category on Monday. While Delhi’s AQI was recorded as 332 (very poor) at 12 noon, Faridabad, Gurugram, Greater Noida were in the ‘poor’ category with readings below 300. Ghaziabad and Noida, like Delhi, were in the ‘very poor’ category with readings of 328 and 308 respectively.An AQI between 101 and 200 is ‘moderate’, between 201 and 300 is ‘poor’, between 301 and 400 is ‘very poor and over 400 is ‘severe’ as per CPCB’s index.Dipankar Saha, former head of CPCB’s air laboratory, says good wind speed has played a key role in improving air quality across the Indo-Gangetic Plain region. “If the air is good, we can allow developmental activities to resume and ensure our economy keeps functioning. Trends indicate air quality will not deteriorate too much in the coming days either as a western disturbance will again impact the region,” said Saha.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/as-air-quality-improves-caqm-lifts-construction-ban-in-delhincrdelhi-101639989746473.html
20-12-2021||Mumbai||Drugs case: Bombay high court rejects actor Armaan Kohli’s bail plea||The Bombay high court on Monday rejected actor Armaan Kohli’s bail application in a drugs-related case. The actor had moved the high court after a special court had rejected his bail application citing prima facie evidence of trafficking and purchase of drugs against Kohli.Kohli pleaded the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) did not have any incriminating evidence against him. He said the observations of the special court were merely based on general allegations against him. Kohli maintained there were no financial transactions between him and the alleged drug peddlers.The high court observed that WhatsApp chats between Kohli and the peddlers needed to be investigated. It added there was a chance of the evidence being tampered with while rejecting the bail application.Also Read: Sofia on Armaan’s arrest in drug case: ‘He shows lack of respect for himself’The bail pleas of Kohli’s co-accused Kareem Dhanani and Imran Ansari were allowed.Kohli’s lawyer Vinod Chate pleaded his client is innocent and has been falsely implicated. He added there was no prima facie and admissible evidence against him.The NCB opposed the bail application citing the special court’s observation that Kohli failed to justify the presence of the 1.2 gm of cocaine seized from his house. The special court also cited chats and videos recovered from Kohli’s phone and added they point to illicit trafficking.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/drugs-case-bombay-high-court-rejects-actor-armaan-kohli-s-bail-plea-101639988786328.html
20-12-2021||Delhi||CM Kejriwal says Delhi prepared to deal with Omicron, calls for booster doses||Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Monday said all new cases of Covid-19 will be sent for genome sequencing for Omicron in view of the rising number of related infections being detected in the national capital.Further, the chief minister urged the central government to allow booster doses against the virus. “I appeal to Centre to allow administration of Covid vaccine booster dose in Delhi,” he said.He also said the Delhi government was ready to deal with the emerging crisis and would focus on home isolation as most cases may not require hospitalisation.“We will strengthen home isolation system as most new Covid cases will not require hospitalisation,” Kejriwal said.Also read | Omicron: New cases in multiple states, nationwide tally reaches 166Two more cases of the Omicron variant of coronavirus were detected in Delhi taking the total tally to 24. Of these, 12 patients have been discharged.The four new patients have been admitted to Max Hospital in Saket.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/omicron-all-new-covid-cases-to-be-sent-for-genome-sequencing-says-kejriwal-101639986419640.html
20-12-2021||Delhi||Pollution: Central panel allows resumption of construction activities in Delhi-NCR||The Centre's air quality panel on Monday withdrew all restrictions on construction and demolition activities in Delhi and the national capital region (NCR) with immediate effect. The decision was taken in the wake of an improvement in pollution levels and meteorological forecast, the Commission for Air Quality Management (CAQM) said. tThe panel also gave its nod to the entry of trucks into Delhi. The lifting of restrictions was subject to persons/agencies undertaking activities strictly complying with dust control norms.The CAQM wrote on its official Twitter handle, “The CAQM considering the improvement in air quality and meteorological forecast allows the resumption of C&D activities in NCR and also the entry of trucks into Delhi with immediate effect.”Entry of trucks to Delhi would be permitted with immediate effect till further orders. Construction & Demolition (C&D) activities in NCR shall be permitted, with immediate effect subject to persons/agencies undertaking activities strictly complying with dust control norms: CAQM pic.twitter.com/S0ZiLF4if0On Friday, the central panel allowed authorities in the region to resume physical classes for students in classes 6 and above, colleges and other educational institutions with immediate effect. It had also said that physical classes for students up to class 5 can begin from December 27.Meanwhile, the overall air quality in Delhi remained in the poor category for the second consecutive day with Air Quality Index (AQI) being recorded at 290 earlier in the day.The AQI in Noida and Gurugram stood at 293 and 225, respectively.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/pollution-central-panel-allows-resumption-of-construction-activities-in-delhi-101639984874704.html
20-12-2021||Chandigarh||Five of family found dead in Haryana’s Hisar district||The bodies of five members of a family were recovered from Nangthala village in Hisar district of Haryana on Monday morning. Also read: Dominant clan announces social boycott of another over a marriage in Haryana’s JindPolice said villagers found the body of Ramesh Kumar, 35, who ran a business of printing wedding cards, on Barwala road on Nangthala’s outskirts in the morning. It seemed he had been hit by a vehicle. “But when we went to his house to inform his family about the incident, no one responded. On going inside, we found four members of the family dead. There were injury marks on their heads and other parts of the bodies,” a villager told the police in his complaint. The bodies of Ramesh’s wife Sunita, 32, and their two daughters aged 15 years and 13 years besides their 10-year-old son were recovered and sent for post-mortem. Hisar police spokesman Vikas Kumar said the Agroha police are at the spot to investigate the matter. “We are probing whether the man killed his family before committing suicide or if someone plotted the murders. A forensic science laboratory team is collecting evidence,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/five-of-family-found-dead-in-haryana-s-hisar-district-101639984646742.html
20-12-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab elections: Sidhu wants debate with Kejriwal, not Bhagwant Mann||Punjab Congress president Navjot Singh Sidhu on Monday refused to have a debate with his Aam Aadmi Party counterpart Bhagwant Mann on issues such as liquor smuggling, illegal mining and unemployment in the state, challenging the party’s national convener and Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal to face him. Also read: Punjab polls: Kejriwal accepts Sidhu’s challenge, fields Mann for debateSidhu had asked Kejriwal to have a debate with him and the Delhi CM accepted the challenge, but fielded his party’s state unit chief for the verbal duel. “@ArvindKejriwal, Bhagwant is not the CM who is running Liquor Mafia with Badals Blacklisted MLA Deep Malhotra…He was not the one who notified the Black Farm Law in Delhi! Who is allowing Badals buses on the lucrative routes to Delhi Airport? Come debate with me masquerader! (sic),” the Punjab Congress president tweeted. Mann says Sidhu running away Sidhu’s tweet drew an instant response from Mann, who accused the Congress leader of running away from debate with him. “Sidhu paaji, why are you scared of me? Why is Sidhu not speaking on illegal sand mining in CM (Charanjit Singh) Channi’s constituency? What are the compulsions due to which he has not said a word on illegal mining in Chamkaur Sahib?” the two-time Sangrur MP tweeted, accusing the Punjab Congress chief of “selective outrage”. The duel over debate between leaders of the ruling Congress and the AAP, the principal opposition party, started after Sidhu, while addressing a rally in Sultanpur Lodhi on Saturday, threw a dare to the Delhi chief minister for a debate on liquor, mining and jobs in the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-elections-sidhu-wants-debate-with-kejriwal-not-bhagwant-mann-101639980866230.html
20-12-2021||Mumbai||Omicron has created lockdown-like situation, avoid Christmas parties, BMC chief appeals to people in Mumbai||Maharashtra has been affected badly by the spread of the new variant of coronavirus disease (Covid-19), named Omicron. Its capital Mumbai is among the worst affected districts in the state.Looking at the prevailing scenario, the chief of the BrihanMumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) has urged people to avoid parties and gatherings during the upcoming Christmas festivities.BMC Commissioner Iqbal Singh Chahal has warned of stringent action against those who are found flouting the rules."Avoid any kind of crowding, wear masks and follow Covid-19 guidelines. All citizens must also get fully vaccinated," the civic body chief said in a press release issued on Sunday. He said due to the new virus variant Omicron, the situation at many countries in the world has once again gone out of control and has created a lockdown-like situation.Chahal appealed to the people to follow all Covid-19 rules in hotels, restaurants, cinemas, malls and other places."Those violating the Covid-19 rules will be dealt with severely by the BMC's ward level teams as well as the Mumbai Police administration," the BMC chief said in a release.According to the BMC, Maharashtra chief secretary issued an order on November 27 and laid down the guidelines to curb the spread of COVID-19. The Mumbai Police also issued a notification on December 14, stating that action will be taken against violators as per the Indian Penal Code as well as the Epidemic Diseases Act and the National Disaster Management Act.As per the guidelines issued by the state government, all eligible citizens are required to complete their inoculation by taking both doses of COVID-19 vaccine. Only those who are fully vaccinated will be allowed at public places, including public transport.Maharashtra has so far reported 54 cases of the Omicron variant. Out of these, 22 are from Mumbai, including cases found through screening at the international airport, as per the official data.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/omicron-has-created-lockdown-like-situation-avoid-christmas-parties-bmc-chief-101639979327530.html
20-12-2021||Patna||Bihar gangster Pappu Dev arrested after encounter dies of cardiac arrest: Cops||SAHARSA: Pappu Dev, an alleged gangster from Bihar’s Kosi region, died of cardiac arrest following his arrest while undergoing treatment at a hospital in Saharsa on Sunday, police said.In a statement, Saharsa police said Dev was arrested from the Sarhi village on Sunday after a brief exchange of fire. Police said they recovered an automatic rifle, three pistols, three country-made pistols, and 47 live cartridges, besides several used cartridges from the site.“In police custody, Pappu complained of chest pain and he was rushed to Sadar hospital where he was kept in the ICU,” Saharsa police superintendent Lipi Singh said. He added Dev was later referred to Patna but he died. Singh said Dev’s post-mortem will be video-graphed.As the news of the Dev’s death spread, his supporters blocked the Saharsa-Supaul highway alleging that he died in custody due to torture and demanding that a case be registered against the police. “My husband was killed in police custody,” alleged Dev’s widow, Punam Devi.The blockade continued amid heavy police deployment in the area.Pappu Dev faced over 150 criminal cases including those related to extortion and murder.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/bihar-gangster-pappu-dev-arrested-after-encounter-dies-of-cardiac-arrest-cops-101639978165863.html
20-12-2021||Delhi||Delhi wakes up to coldest day of the season; mercury falls to 4.4°C||Delhi woke up to the coldest day of the season on Monday as the temperature dropped to 4.4 degrees Celsius, with a cold spell continuing for the third day in a row.Monday’s maximum temperature is expected to be 19 degrees Celsius. Met officials have predicted that the cold wave is likely to continue for at least another day.On Saturday, the temperature in the Capital dipped to 6 degrees Celsius. Then on Sunday, the minimum temperature was 4.6 degree Celsius, which was three notches below normal for this time of the year. The maximum temperature was 19.2 degrees Celsius, which was also three degrees above normal.  On the pollution front, Delhi’s air quality plunged to the “very poor” zone on Monday morning. Data from the Central Pollution Control Board showed that the hourly air quality index (AQI) at 7am was 325. On Sunday, the average 24-hour AQI was 271, which was in the “poor” category.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-wakes-up-to-coldest-day-of-the-season-mercury-falls-to-44c-101639969465537.html
20-12-2021||Delhi||Yellow alert for extreme cold in Delhi today: What does this mean?||National capital and its nearby regions are experiencing a cold wave, which took the temperature to below four degrees Celsius for the first time this winter. The India Meteorological Department (IMD) said that though Safdarjung, Delhi’s base station, recorded a temperature of 4.6 degrees on Sunday morning, it plunged to 3.3 degrees at Jafarpur and 3.6 degrees at Lodhi Road.The weather department issued a yellow alert for the national capital both for Sunday and Monday.RK Jenamani, Director General of Meteorology at IMD, further said that there is a possibility of drizzling on December 24 or 25.What does a yellow alert mean?The IMD has several colour-coded warnings depicting the weather at a particular place. The warnings are issued after analysis of weather forecast data for a particular region over a few days.Yellow weather warning indicates severely bad weather. It also suggests that the weather could change for the worse, causing disruption in day-to-day activities and asks people in an area to remain vigilant.These alerts are universal in nature and are also issued during floods or heavy rainfall.The IMD has issued yellow alert for Uttarakhand also from December 18-21. Many places in that state, like Ranichauri, Mukteshwar, Mussoorie, Pithoragarh and New Tehri have recorded sub-zero or near-freezing temperatures.Cold wave in DelhiThe cold wave conditions have been prevailing in the national capital for the last two days owing to a strong, dry northwesterly cold wind, the IMD said. However, the spell will be abetted from December 21 following improvement in the weather, the weather department added.Day temperatures in Delhi on Monday will likely be around 19 degrees Celsius since wind speeds are falling. Night temperatures in the national capital are expected to hover around 4 degrees, according to the forecast.How cold wave is declared?The weather department declares a cold day if the maximum temperature is 4.5 degrees below normal. It announces a cold wave if the day’s low is either 4.5 degrees below normal, or is below 4 degrees.Cold wave in entire north IndiaSeveral parts of northwest India recorded subzero temperatures. Both the day’s high and low were several notches below normal in Rajasthan, Punjab, Haryana and Jammu & Kashmir.Sikar in east Rajasthan recorded minus 2.5 degrees, 8.5 degrees below normal. Churu in the western part of the desert state recorded minus 2.6 degrees, 8.4 degrees below normal. Amritsar in Punjab saw minus 0.5 degrees, 4.3 degrees below normal, and a maximum of 15.5 degrees, 5 degrees below normal. Bathinda recorded 0.1 degree, 3.5 degrees below normal and a maximum of 17.6, 4 degrees below normal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/yellow-alert-for-extreme-cold-in-delhi-today-what-does-this-mean-101639963778355.html
20-12-2021||Delhi||Delhiwale: Two lives||She sits down on the pavement, as people pass to and fro, here in Gurugram’s Sadar Bazar. Ms Kashmiro has a large bundle of raw papads with her. She starts to roast them one by one on her small stove with her bare hands. Her face shows no expressions. Her movements are slow. With a pink shawl draped about her blue sari, she seems too advanced in years to be working on such a busy street, while being saddled with so many belongings to handle at the same time.“I work because I am alone.” Ms Kashmiro says in a mournful tone, explaining that her husband died when he was very young. So did her two sons. “One chhora died 16 years ago, the other chhora died 12 years ago.”A scooter is parked adjacent to her. Its owner prepares to start the vehicle. Ms Kashmiro asks him, in Punjabi, to not accidentally bump the scooter into her stove. Within moments, the vacant place left by the scooter is taken over by a middle-aged man. He uninhibitedly, but politely, listens to the conversation, looking eager to wade into it at the earliest opportunity.“I have been selling papad in this bazar for many years,” Ms Kashmiro says. The man remarks that he had, however, never seen her before. “I usually stay in the other side of the market,” she replies. Ms Kashmiro gives more details of her life. She lives in a rented room in Rajindra Park, and there are times when she isn’t able to earn enough money to pay the month’s rent. “But then good people, who think well of me, come to my aid.” Responding to a query, she says she must be 60. The man looks surprised, telling her that she looks older than that. Ms Kashmiro says matter-of-factly: “That is because I have lived with grief for so long.”The man nods as if he understands what Ms Kashmiro is trying to convey. He says, “Who isn’t sad… I’m also in grief.” Introducing himself as Harish Chander, he says he had been working for many years in a Sadar Bazar shop but lost his job following the coronavirus pandemic. “The buisness had gone down…. so… I’m now khaali (idle).” After a prolonged pause, he adds, “My wife died in May this year… she was tested positive for corona.” Ms Kashmiro nods her head, murmuring, “Hum sab dukhi hain (we all are sad).” She continues to roast the papads. The man walks away after sometime.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhiwale-two-lives-101639958097362.html
20-12-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana | Consumer forum directs immigration agency to refund ₹1.5 lakh for not securing visa||The District Consumer Disputes Redressal Commission has directed a travel consultancy, which was unable to secure a visa for the complainant, to refund ₹1,59,950 and pay ₹10,000 as compensation on grounds of providing deficient service. The complainant, Rajwinder Kaur of Payal of Ludhiana, had said that she had cleared the IELTS exam, which is a prerequisite for settling abroad, and had approached the consultancy for securing a visa. The immigration consultancy had assured her that a visa would be arranged within six to eight months and she had paid ₹6,59,950 for the same. However, the company was unable to secure a visa for her despite submitting all requisite documents, and also failed to inform her about the same. Citing deficiency of service on part of the immigration consultancy, Kaur sought complete refund of the amount she had paid along with ₹2 lakh compensation and ₹22,000 as litigation expense.However, the consultancy firm’s counsel said the complainant had paid ₹5,67,500 for express-entry employment facilitation in Canada, of which ₹5 lakh had already been returned to her. “The complainant had paid an additional ₹2,10,000 to the respondent, of which ₹29,399 had been given to the state exchequer as service tax, which is non-refundable. There has been no deficiency of service or negligence,” said the counsel, adding that their client had immediately started working on the immigration case. “The respondent assessed the complainants’ documents as per the national occupation classification and uploaded the complainant’s documents on Job Bank Canada for arranging a job offer. However, the complainant had failed to receive a job offer so far as the employers were yet to go through a resume, “ the counsel added.The commission, in its order, observed that it could not be disputed that the complainant had provided all the documentation, and the arrangement with a company in Dubai for a job offer had been made through the consultancy.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-consumer-forum-directs-immigration-agency-to-refund-1-5-lakh-for-not-securing-visa-101639955904682.html
20-12-2021||Chandigarh||18 schools with increased enrolment to be upgraded in Ludhiana||With the Cabinet giving the nod to upgrade 229 government schools across the state, the state education department has upgraded 18 schools in the district, which have witnessed an increase in enrolment. As many as 83 government high schools (GHS), 100 government middle schools (GMS) and 46 government primary schools (GPS), have been upgraded across the state. The seven high schools upgraded to senior secondary schools in the district include Ragveer Singh Freedom Fighter GHS, Amloh Road, Khanna; GHS, Aliwal; GHS Haibowal Kalan; GHS Nagra; GHS Sunet; GHS Barewal Awana; and GHS Jassowal . Eight middle schools – GMS, Ratanheri; GMS, Madhepur, GMS, Kalal Majra, GMS, Housing Board Colony, GMS, Billanwali Chhapri, GMS, Jassian, GMS, Garhi and GMS, Mohi – have been made high schools, while GPS, Bhikhi Khatra; GPS, Tugal; and GPS, Jodhan, made the cut among primary schools.Schools lack staff, infra: TeachersWhile officials in the local education department say development and increased enrolment has led to the schools being upgraded, many of the selected schools are grappling staff and infrastructure shortage. Case in point, GHS, Sunet enrolled 127 students in Class 10 this year, taking its student count to 1,358. However, the school lacks the infrastructure to accommodate the students as was seen during the board exams when students had to take the exam on the floor in the extreme cold. A teacher at GHS Barewal Awana, whose enrolment has increased to 1321, said, “We are short of staff. Increasing enrolment, without hiring more teachers is not a smart move.” Upgrade need of the hour: DEOMeanwhile, district education officer Lakhvir Singh Samra said, “The upgrade was the need of the hour as enrolment in government schools has increased during the ongoing session. Government schools have become smart schools and the schools in the district are providing quality education.”Government school principal Davinder Singh Chhina says since the education system is getting streamlined and digitised, government schools have become the first choice for parents. “A large number of students migrated from private schools to the government schools, not just because of a lack of financial resources, but also because they knew that government schools are providing quality education,” Chhina said.
20-12-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana | Student tests Covid +ve at govt school, testing ramped up||After a Class 7 student tested positive at the Government Model Senior Secondary School, Cemetery Road, on Saturday, the health department has collected the samples of around 100 students in the school. School authorities say that the student had been seated with his classmates during the exams that had culminated on Friday, and that the student had tested positive during routine sampling. The student is asymptomatic. Principal Taskin Akhtar said routine sampling was already underway at the school and around 800 students had been tested. After the boy tested positive, around 100 samples of his contacts and other Class 6 and 7 students were collected. Meanwhile, the school is being run at 50% capacity as per the directions received from the state government.Civil surgeon Dr SP Singh said that the reports of the other students are expected on Monday. 3 more test positive Three people, including the wife and son of Sacred Heart Convent School teacher, Bhaskaran, who had succumbed to the virus, tested positive for the virus. The total case count has reached 87,723, while 2116 patients have succumbed. There were around 34 active cases in the district on Sunday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-student-tests-covid-ve-at-govt-school-testing-ramped-up-101639955724680.html
20-12-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana | Suspected of witchcraft, elderly woman stabbed to death||Ludhiana Suspecting her for performing witchcraft, a 25-year-old man Sunday morning stabbed an elderly woman to death with a kitchen knife in the Chuharwal village of Meharban. The victim has been identified as the 70-year-old Swarn Kaur. The police have arrested the accused Jaspal Singh. alias Jassa, recovering the kitchen knife used for the murder.The FIR was lodged based on the statement of Gurmail Singh, alias Jaila, the victim’s son. He revealed that he was accompanying his mother to Gurudwara Sahib, to pay their obeisance, at around 6.30am, when they ran into the accused and his mother Satnam Kaur.Gurmail Singh added that the accused began hurling profanities at his mother, accusing her for performing witchcraft. “When my mother tried to confront them, the accused flashed a knife and stabbed her repeatedly,” he said. Jaspal Singh fled from the spot after the incident. The victim was rushed to hospital, where the doctors declared her dead.Davinder Chaudhary, Assistant Commissioner of Police (ACP) East, said a murder case has been lodged against Jaspal Singh. The police later arrested his mother on charges of criminal conspiracy.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-suspected-of-witchcraft-elderly-woman-stabbed-to-death-101639955364604.html
20-12-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana | 32-year-old found dead in Ludhiana||Ludhiana A 32-year-old man was on Saturday night found dead on the roadside near Laxmi Nagar in Haibowal. The deceased, who has been identified as Bittu Batra, a 32-year-old, had sustained injury marks on his body prompting his brother of suspecting that he was murdered. The police have sent the deceased’s body, which was first discovered by passersby, to the Civil Hospital for postmortem. According to the available information, the injuries were sustained over four to five days ago.Inspector Neeraj Chaudhary, Station Head Officer (SHO) of the Haibowal police station said the deceased was unmarried. According to his family members, he used to work at dhabas and would spend the nights sleeping either at work or on the roadside. The SHO added that the cause of death will be determined by the full postmortem report, following which they will take the appropriate action.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-32-year-old-found-dead-in-ludhiana-101639955304806.html
20-12-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana | Industrialists share concerns with steel minister||Ludhiana Industrialists on Saturday held a meeting with Rama Chandra Prasad Singh, union minister of steel, highlighting such issues as the steep hike in steel prices.Suggesting that the government must intervene and stop cartelisation of steel to save the MSME sector, Upkar Singh Ahuja, president of the Industrial and Commercial Undertaking, said, “A majority of steel manufacturers in the country cartelise and hence monopolise the steel trade which should be stopped as the rates are fixed by them, as per their own will rather than looking at the demand and supply.”Ahuja further said the biggest hurdle faced by the MSME is procuring raw material from large steel manufacturers. It was suggested, during the meeting, that steel companies can extend the line of credit for buyers where the Government of India can act as guarantor.Industrialists also proposed that production-linked incentives should be given to the steel industry.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-industrialists-share-concerns-with-steel-minister-101639955244619.html
20-12-2021||Chandigarh||Channi declares Sri Krishan Balram Rath Yatra state festival||Punjab chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi, who flagged off the 25th ‘Shri Krishan Balram Rath Yatra’ in the city on Sunday, declared the annual procession a state festival. The yatra, which was carried out after a gap of two years due to coronavirus restrictions, was attended by a large number of devotees. The CM also announced a grant of ₹2.51 crore for the Iskcon Temple in Ludhiana. Addressing the gathering outside the Shri Durga Mata Mandir near Jagraon Bridge, the CM said, “The government will celebrate the rath yatra as a state festival every year.” Advising the youth to imbibe the teaching of the Bhagavad Gita, the CM said the holy book had given direction to his life. “When I became a municipal councillor 25 years ago, someone had advised me to recite a shloka of the Bhagavad Gita everyday for inner peace. I have found that if one even imbibes one shloka in the book, it is enough to succeed in life.”“Religious texts are the biggest source of inspiration, and therefore a Shri Bhagavad Gita and Ramayana Research Centre is being built on 20-acre land in Patiala,” the CM added. MLA Pandey absent, says ‘not invited’ Amid reports of differences between the Ludhiana North MLA and senior leaders in the city, Rakesh Pandey was conspicuous by his absence in the yatra, which had Cabinet minister Bharat Bhushan Ashu, MLAs Surinder Dawar, Sanjay Talwar and Kuldeep Vaid, mayor Balkar Sandhu and other senior leaders in attendence. On the reason for his absence, Pandey said that he had not been invited. On December 16,Pandey had reportedly not allowed the MC to install a foundation stone and CM Channi had to inaugurate the Ambedkar Bhawan through a ribbon cutting ceremony. As per the sources, Pandey was unhappy that the name of a cabinet minister had been inscribed on the stone.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/channi-declares-sri-krishan-balram-rath-yatra-state-festival-101639955184657.html
20-12-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana | 3 held for robbing factory owner of ₹9.5 lakh||Nine days after a factory owner was robbed of ₹9.5 lakh on RK Road near Cheema Chowk, three of the six robbers were arrested on Sunday. A former staffer, Sonu Kumar, who had worked at the hosiery factory as a sanitary worker for three years, was the mastermind of the robbery, commissioner of police Gurpreet Singh Bhullar said. “Kumar, who had quit seven months ago, knew that the factory owner, Radha Mohan Thapar, distributed salaries on the 10th day of every month,” Bhullar said, adding that Kumar had been on the spot when the robbery took place. He was among the people who gathered after the robbers struck.While Kumar and four of his aides are on the run, the police have arrested Vishal, 19, of SBS Nagar; Sunny, 22, of Giaspura; and Azad, 25, of Shimlapuri. The bike used to execute the crime and ₹2.72 lakh were recovered from the accused. Commissioner of police Gurpreet Singh Bhullar said, “Vishal and Sunny were found hiding in a house in Sector 25, Chandigarh. They revealed the whereabouts of Azad, who was arrested from Bharat Nagar Chowk, Ludhiana.” Bag, cards, phones tossed into canalThe accused had split the cash and dumped the bag containing two debit cards, and two I-Phones, which they had snatched from Thapar, into the Sidhwan Canal at different locations. Divers were enlisted to fish out the items from the canal. The bag had been stuffed with stones. The robbery, which took place on December 10, had been executed in a record 15 seconds. A case was lodged against the accused at the Moti Nagar police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-3-held-for-robbing-factory-owner-of-9-5-lakh-101639955064715.html
20-12-2021||Chandigarh||Auto snuffs out teen cyclist’s life in Chandigarh||An 18-year-old boy, who was injured after an auto-rickshaw hit his cycle on Friday, died at Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH), Sector 32, on Saturday.The victim, Mithun, hailed from Raebareli in Uttar Pradesh and was living in Vikas Nagar, Mauli Jagran, Chandigarh. He was on his way when an auto-rickshaw hit his cycle near the Vikas Nagar light point in Mauli Jagran on Friday night. The auto driver, Shiva, 35, of Mauli Jagran was booked under Sections 279 (rash driving or riding on a public way), 304-A (causing death by negligence) and 337 (causing hurt by act endangering life or personal safety of others) of the Indian Penal Code. He was arrested and later released on bail.In a similar accident, Raj Kumar of Behlana was hit by an auto-rickshaw while walking near the ITBP campus gate in Behlana on Saturday. The auto driver fled from the spot. Kumar is undergoing treatment at GMCH, Sector 32.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/auto-snuffs-out-teen-cyclist-s-life-in-chandigarh-101639949664704.html
20-12-2021||Chandigarh||97% of vaccinated patients in Chandigarh not requiring hospitalisation||As many as 97% of the Covid patients, who have got first or both doses of vaccine, are not requiring hospitalisation in Chandigarh, the UT health department said on Sunday.“Of the 100 people getting infected with the virus these days, over 99% are vaccinated against the virus, at least with the first dose. This is because Chandigarh has already vaccinated all of its eligible population with the first dose and 82% with both doses. Though vaccinated people can also get infected, the vaccine is certainly helping in controlling the severity of infection,” said Dr Suman Singh, director, health services, Chandigarh.Dr Singh added, “Of the total vaccinated patients, over 97% are getting mild or no symptoms. Therefore, they are able to recover at home. Only those who have co-morbidities, like diabetes and hypertension, are requiring hospital care despite getting vaccinated.” As per the UT health department, the vaccination drive has also significantly helped in controlling the fatality rate.“In the past two-and-a-half months, the health department recorded only two fatalities owing to the virus. Hence, while severity of infection and hospitalisation has decreased, fatality rate is also in control,” Dr Singh said.It was only on October 5 when Chandigarh had last reported a Covid-related death, until a 35-year-old woman from Bapu Dham Colony died due to the virus on December 18. The woman was admitted for bilateral pneumonitis at Government Multi-Specialty Hospital, Sector 16, where she breathed her last.As per the health department, the woman was not vaccinated.“Even if we have administered the first dose of vaccine to 114% of our targeted population, there are some people, including migrants, who have not yet taken any dose of vaccine. We are conducting a door-to-door vaccination drive for locating such people and vaccinating them,” Dr Singh said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/97-of-vaccinated-patients-in-chandigarh-not-requiring-hospitalisation-101639949616404.html
20-12-2021||Chandigarh||Covovax trials: PGIMER Chandigarh invites volunteers from 2-6 age group||The Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER) will reopen registrations for children aged between two and six from December 20 for volunteering in the second and third phases of trials for Covovax, a vaccine against Covid-19 for children.The institute has already conducted trials for the seven to 17 age group by inoculating 10 children and found the vaccine completely safe for children.Covovax, which is primarily developed by US firm, Novavax Inc, will be mass produced by Pune-based Serum Institute of India (SII), mainly for the below 18 age group. PGIMER is among the 10 institutes that are conducting the trials on the vaccine, which is aimed at checking its safety and immune response.The institute aims to immunise around 100 children, with two doses of 0.5 ml each, on Day 1 and Day 22 respectively.“In the previous trials, all children were kept under observation for 30 minutes after inoculation and didn’t suffer any side effects. We continue to monitor their health and are conducting blood tests to determine the vaccine’s efficacy. The SII and Union government have concluded that the vaccine is safe, so we will now begin trials for children below the age of seven,” said Dr Madhu Gupta, professor, Community Medicine and School of Public Health, and principal investigator of the project.After administering both doses, the children will be screened and results will be studied for six months, following which the institute will submit its findings to the SII and government of India.While inviting participants for the trials, the PGIMER authorities said, “Parents of healthy children, aged between two and six, who want their children to participate in the trials, can fill the consent form and send it to the institute through email, text message or telephone numbers. The consent form is available at https://tinyurl.com/ds9fe9h5 and can be sent to covovax2021@gmail.com or 734-766-5382 or 734-766-5383. The registration will begin on December 20.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/covovax-trials-pgimer-chandigarh-invites-volunteers-from-2-6-age-group-101639949615125.html
20-12-2021||Chandigarh||Delhi became most-polluted capital under AAP: Congress||“Delhi has been ranked as the most-polluted capital under the AAP government,” said Alka Lamba, national spokesperson of Congress on Sunday.“In 2013, Delhi was the green capital of the world with Number 1 ranking, but now it has become the capital of pollution,” said Lamba at a press conference at the Chandigarh Congress Bhawan in Sector 35.“Delhi has been ranked as the most-polluted capital and the 10th most-polluted city in the world, according to the World Air Quality Report, 2020, released by the Swiss air technology company, IQAir,” she said.“Here in Chandigarh, AAP leaders are assuring to solve the garbage problem of Chandigarh, but can they answer how they allowed the three landfills in Delhi to turn into huge mountains of garbage, up to the height of Qutub Minar?” she asked.“The fund source of AAP is totally non-transparent. The party is spending hundreds of crores on averments. Where are these funds coming from?” she questioned further.‘BJP in cahoots with AAP’Abhishek Dutt, national spokesperson, All-India Congress Committee and vice-president of the Delhi Pradesh Congress Committee, said, “The BJP is hand in glove with the AAP against the Congress in Chandigarh. Both parties have a hidden agenda to befool people on false promises.” “Kejriwal is habitual of passing the buck, be it availability of oxygen during the Covid-19 pandemic, safety of women or law and order,” he alleged.On AAP’s “Delhi Model”, he said, “It in fact reflects water and air pollution, garbage mismanagement and lack of sanitation. Kejriwal is promising to improve roads in Chandigarh, while those in Delhi remain in bad shape.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/delhi-became-most-polluted-capital-under-aap-congress-101639949613819.html
20-12-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh MC polls: Political parties rush leaders from other states to bolster campaigns||As the D-Day, December 24, approaches, parties are rushing in senior party leaders and functionaries from neighbouring states and some from as far as Bihar to the city to give a last-ditch push to their campaigns.Star campaigners, members of legislative assemblies, mayors and ordinary workers have been deputed in wards to give their campaigns impetus.Sunday saw Aam Admi Party (AAP) supremo Arvind Kejriwal and Union minister Anurag Thakur canvassing for their parties. Kejriwal addressed a public rally and Thakur concentrated his efforts on the Himachali voters in the city, two days after Himachal Pradesh (HP) chief minister Jai Ram Thakur addressed public rallies for the BJP candidates in Chandigarh. Union minister of state for home Nityanand Rai and Ambala MP Ratan Lal Kataria also campaigned on behalf of the BJP on Sunday. For the AAP, Sangrur member of Parliament and Punjab president Bhagwant Mann will be in Chandigarh for the next two days, campaigning for the party. Even Congress has stationed its national general secretary Randeep Singh Surjewala in the city for the past two days to hold public meetings for its candidates. Congress’ national spokesperson Alka Lamba also campaigned for the party on Sunday. In the next couple of days, the party is also likely to put in the field its leader Kanhaiya Kumar. For the BJP, its Delhi MP Manoj Tiwari will once again be in the city. Both will be focusing on the crucial Purvanchal votes, which are estimated to be more than 1 lakh strong.“Leaders from other states have been called in the city mainly for two purposes. The primary aim is to bolster the confidence of the people on the ground, who are in direct contact with the voters. Also, with more than 2.5 lakh voters from Uttar Pradesh, Himachal Pradesh and Uttarakhand, leaders and workers from other states are being pressed into action,” said a senior BJP leader.One-on-one contactIn the next two-days, the emphasis will shift heavily to door-to-door campaigning.The ruling BJP, looking to retain power in MC, has called up MLAs, mayors and senior functionaries from HP, Uttar Pradesh, Uttarakhand, Rajasthan and even Bihar. While MLA-level functionaries are supervising the party’s districts, other functionaries have been posted till up to the booth level. “Though given a diverse set of duties, the functionaries’ focus is on one-on-one contact with the voters of their states. They are visiting people’s houses, sitting with them, sharing the party’s achievements here and in their native states,” said Arun Sood, BJP state president.The Congress has also called up its reserves from other states, including HP, Punjab, Haryana and Delhi.“More than 60 senior HP leaders and workers are in the city. They are not only pushing for the Himachali natives’ votes, but are also contributing to the party’s overall campaign in different capacities,” said Rajinder Rana, Chandigarh Congress campaign coordinator and MLA, Sujanpur, HP. From Punjab, reinforcements have arrived mainly from the neighbouring assembly constituencies – Mohali, Kharar and Dera Bassi. They have been deputed with each candidate to strengthen their campaign.AAP leaders, on the other hand, insist that the party is depending only on local party workers for campaigning. “MLAs from Delhi are camping here primarily for coordination. There are eight MLAs, who are managing five wards each, and one is based at the party’s city headquarters. They are also providing any assistance required by candidates at the ground level,” said Chandermukhi Sharma, chairman, AAP election campaign.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-mc-polls-political-parties-rush-leaders-from-other-states-to-bolster-campaigns-101639949612396.html
20-12-2021||Chandigarh||MC polls: Give AAP a chance, Kejriwal’s message to Chandigarh residents||Urging Chandigarh voters to give the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) a chance, Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal promised to make Chandigarh the cleanest in Asia and the local municipal corporation corruption-free. The AAP supremo was addressing a public rally at the Dussehra ground in Sector 43 on Sunday: “In 25 years of Chandigarh MC history, you have given 13 years to the BJP and 12 years to the Congress. Inhone shehar ka bedagarg kar diya (they ruined the city). Humein bhi 5 saal deke dekho (give us a chance as well),” said Kejriwal. “I don’t know politics, I only know how to work and deliver. Ask your friends and family members in Delhi how much work we have done,” he said. Kejriwal was accompanied by Sangrur MP and AAP’s Punjab president Bhagwant Mann, senior Chandigarh leadership and all 35 party candidates on the stage. The MC elections are scheduled for December 24. The AAP is contesting the Chandigarh civic polls for the first time and has fielded candidates on all 35 seats. Reiterating the party’s five promises in its manifesto for Chandigarh MC elections, Kejriwal said, “AAP will end corruption in MC. We will bring MC to the doorsteps of city residents. All the money currently going to the pockets of the Congress and BJP councillors will be spent on the city’s development.”He assured that the Dadumajra garbage dump will be cleared and the city will be made cleanest in Asia. “In Delhi people get zero water bills, which will be ensured in Chandigarh as well,” he promised. On women security, Kejriwal said the party will install CCTV cameras and street lights at all internal roads of the city. “For long, development and proper maintenance has eluded group housing societies. The MC under AAP will take over these functions,” said Kejriwal. Attacking the BJP, he said, “They have a government at Centre, they are ruling in MC and the administration is also under them. But they have still failed to get any work done. Humein inse kaam karwana aata hai, hum yaha bhi karke dikhayenge (we know how to get the work done, we will show that here as well).” BJP is ‘Bharatiya Jumla Party’: MannAddressing the gathering, Bhagwant Mann said the BJP’s real name was “Bharatiya Jumla Party”. “The broom button is the button of your luck. It is the button of your children’s future. So when you come out of the house to vote on the 24th, think of it as the day of change,” he said.In his address, party’s Chandigarh co-incharge Pradeep Chhabra said, “In the last six years, there is no tax that has not been levied on the people of the city. After increasing the property tax and parking fees, the municipal corporation has robbed residents by increasing water bill rates.” Kejriwal gained false popularity with money: KherTaking a jibe at Kejriwal after his rally in Chandigarh, Chandigarh MP Kirron Kher on Sunday night tweeted, “Kejriwal, who has gained false accolades and popularity on the basis of money, the enlightened people of Chandigarh will not catch your free election rattles. Vote will be given only on development and not on illogical nonsense. Kahe Chandigarh Dil Se, BJP Phir Se.” In the same tweet she also shared a video with the title, “For getting false popularity, Kejriwal is bringing crowd from Punjab by giving them money…You can gather crowd by giving some money, but people will give vote to development only.” The video showed trucks and buses carrying AAP supporters. Earlier, former BJP Chandigarh president Sanjay Tandon, said, “AAP has failed in Delhi and is now seeking five years in Chandigarh to ruin it too. They spend more on Kejriwal’s brand promotion than on Delhi’s development.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/mc-polls-give-aap-a-chance-kejriwal-s-message-to-chandigarh-residents-101639949611094.html
20-12-2021||Chandigarh||Mohali MC gets more teeth, to take charge of 5 sports complexes||The Greater Mohali Area Development Authority (GMADA) is all set to hand over five sports complexes located in various area of Mohali to the municipal corporation by December-end, adding ₹1.1 crore annually to MC’s coffers.The sports complexes, being transferred to MC, are located in Sectors 61, 65, 70 and 71, and Phase 5.“We have already completed the repair works at the sports complexes in Sectors 61 and 65, which will be handed over soon, while repairs at the other three sports complexes will be finished in the next two weeks,” said Devinder Singh, chief engineer of GMADA.He said as per the PUDA Act, GMADA developed the projects and then handed them over to the civic body for maintenance.It was in 2011 when GMADA constructed the five multi-purpose sports complexes with facilities for various disciplines. Since then, it was earning ₹22 lakh from each complex every year.Earlier in January this year, the development authority had lost its annual income of around ₹3.5 crore when it gave the entire charge of the city’s water supply and sewerage system to the civic body.For two decades, GMADA was maintaining the water supply and sewerage system in new sectors (66 to 69 and 76 to 80), while levying higher tariffs. GMADA had also transferred 105 parks of these new sectors to the civic body over the past year. Besides in August, the Punjab Small Industries and Export Corporation (PSIEC) had handed over the maintenance and upkeep of the Industrial Area Phases 8-A and 8-B to MC.GMADA also contributes 25% of the total amount spent by the civic body on development works in the city.Apart from this, the Punjab State Power Corporation Limited (PSPCL) also cleared ₹10 crore it owed MC in form of excise duty deducted from electricity bills.“Former mayor Kulwant Singh had made MC financially weak. Now it is cash-rich after our efforts to get maximum maintenance works from GMADA and recover dues from various agencies,” said city mayor Amarjit Singh Sidhu.MC set to increase its boundaryMC is also going it increase its boundary for which the Punjab local bodies department has already sought objections from people.In June this year, MC had passed a resolution to this effect, following which the local bodies department had sought objections and suggestions from people on December 13. The new areas to come under its limits include Sectors 90, 91, 82, TDI City, and villages Balongi, Chappar Chiri, Chapper Chiri Khurd, Bariyali, Ballomajra, Mauli Baidwan, Chilla and Lakhnaur.
20-12-2021||Chandigarh||MC polls: Support BJP, Anurag Thakur exhorts Himachalis in Chandigarh||In the city to campaign for the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) candidates, party leader and Union minister of youth affairs and sports Anurag Thakur appealed to people from the hill state of Himachal Pradesh (HP) to vote for the party in the upcoming MC polls.While lauding the role of native Himachalis in Chandigarh’s development, Thakur affirmed that the interests of Himachalis were safe and secure with the BJP in Chandigarh, as “already seen in BJP-led Himachal Pradesh”.On Sunday, the minister addressed a series of public meetings in support of party candidates Rajinder Sharma (ward 35) in Sector 48, Prince Bandula (ward 13) on the PU campus and Ravinder Rawat (ward 27) in Sector 40.Thakur said the “double engine” governments had proved to be very beneficial for the UT residents. “Whatever scheme has been implemented by the central government, Chandigarh has been its first beneficiary. Many schemes are being implemented, which will benefit the locals here,” he said, adding that the Prime Minister Narendra Modi-led central government was a favourite in every nook and cranny of the country and the BJP’s recent wins in the north-east civic polls were clear evidence of it.Later in the day, he also addressed a programme organised by BJP’s Himachal cell at the Sector 25 rally ground for Himachal natives living in Chandigarh. BJP’s Chandigarh president Arun Sood, former state president Sanjay Tandon, additional solicitor general of India Satya Pal Jain, Chandigarh’s co-in-charge Indubala Goswami, Chandigarh mayor Ravi Kant Sharma and state secretary Amit Rana accompanied the Union minister.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/mc-polls-support-bjp-anurag-thakur-exhorts-himachalis-in-chandigarh-101639949608335.html
20-12-2021||Chandigarh||Mohali police hunting for two men accused of ₹1 crore fraud||The Mohali police are on the lookout for two men who duped a Chandigarh resident of ₹1 crore after offering to double the money in five years.In his complaint, Dilsher Singh Bajwa, a resident of Pipliwala Town in Manimajra, Chandigarh, alleged that two men, Narinder Chaudhary and Asis Bhardwaj, approached him, claiming that they had a start-up company that could help him double his money in just five years. Therefore, he invested ₹1 crore. However, they failed to keep their promise or return his money.Investigating officer ASI Nirmal Singh said Bajwa filed a complaint with the Mohali SSP, following which a legal opinion was taken, and a case of fraud and cyber crime was registered against the two accused.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/mohali-police-hunting-for-two-men-accused-of-1-crore-fraud-101639949607172.html
20-12-2021||Chandigarh||Covid: 28 test positive in Chandigarh tricity, highest in five months||Witnessing a steady rise in Covid-19 cases, the tricity on Sunday logged 28 new infections, up from 26 the day before and highest in over five months.It was on July 3 last when 32 infections were recorded in the tricity, following which the number had been waning.Of the 28 new cases, 11 surfaced in Mohali, nine in Panchkula and eight in Chandigarh. However, no Covid-related fatality was reported in the three areas on Sunday.For the past 15 days, the single day tally of the tricity has remained in double digits. The latest cases in Mohali were reported from Mohali (urban), Kharar and Dera Bassi. In Chandigarh, the patients are from Sectors 15, 21, 33, 34, 40 and 43, and Manimajra, whereas Panchkula’s cases came from Indira Colony, Kalka, and Sectors 4, 9, 21 and 25.With this, tricity’s active caseload climbed to 179. Among these, 89 patients are still infected in Chandigarh, 54 in Mohali and 36 in Panchkula.Chandigarh’s total cases have reached 65,703, of which 64,537 patients have recovered and 1,077 have died. Mohali has reported 69,173 cases till date. While 67,939 patients have been cured, 1,073 have died. Panchkula’s case count of 30,903 includes 30,486 recoveries and 381 fatalities.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/covid-28-test-positive-in-chandigarh-tricity-highest-in-five-months-101639949605669.html
20-12-2021||Chandigarh||Cold wave: At 3.2°C, Chandigarh records season’s coldest night||With the fog subsiding on the intervening night of Saturday and Sunday, the minimum temperature fell sharply from 6.1°C the night before to 3.2°C, which was 3.6 degrees below normal.According to the India Meteorological Department (IMD), this is the lowest that the night temperature has gone this season and is also just slightly higher than the lowest temperature last December – 3.1°C on December 31, 2020.With a night temperature of 3.2°C, the city also recorded this winter’s first cold wave day. As per the IMD, a cold wave is declared in the plains when the minimum temperature goes below 4°C. It is also declared when the minimum temperature is 10°C or below and also 4.5 notches lesser than the season’s normal for two consecutive days. “While the city witnessed dense fog over the past few days, the sky was clear in the early hours of Sunday. Fog acts like a blanket, keeping the minimum temperature from dropping too low. In its absence, night got chillier between Saturday and Sunday. Similar conditions are expected on the intervening night of Sunday and Monday as well,” said an IMD official.However, the official added, as two western disturbances were likely to affect the city one after the other in the coming days, the temperature will rise.Meanwhile, the clear skies helped the maximum temperature increase from 15°C on Saturday to 18.7°C on Sunday, but it was still 2.4 degrees below normal. Over the next three days, the maximum temperature will remain between 17°C and 19°C, while the minimum temperature will hover between 3°C and 6°C.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/cold-wave-at-3-2-c-chandigarh-records-season-s-coldest-night-101639949604381.html
20-12-2021||Chandigarh||Vijay Hazare trophy: 2 Chandigarh based cricketers playing for other teams have fine run||While the UT Cricket Association senior men’s team lost all five matches, two Chandigarh-based cricketers playing for other state teams had a fine run in the Vijay Hazare Trophy. Left-arm spinner Rahul Singh, through his bowling form along with superlative batting performances, helped Services qualify for the quarter-finals of the tournament after nine years. With figures of 3-33 against Rajasthan in the last league game, he set up a win for his team and helped them enter the quarter-finals.The 28-year-old spinner, who had played for Himachal Pradesh in the past, is in his fifth season for Services and grabbed the highest eight wickets in the five matches for his team. “The off-season training and preparatory camps helped get me into rhythm. In T20 matches, there are bowling limitations for a spinner, but in one day and day’s cricket, a spinner can try variations. I want to continue playing well and help my team win the quarter-final tie as well,” said Rahul, who has featured in 28 matches, picking up 33 wickets at an impressive economy of 4.07. The Vijay Hazare Trophy 2021 was a breakout season for him, as he was first in the chart for the lowest economy of any bowler midway through the tournament.Rahul eventually finished sixth in the season, when it came to the lowest economy. He finished 11th on the list of best averages.Services topped Group E with four wins from five matches and will take on Kerala in the quarter-final tie in Jaipur on December 22.Meanwhile, Uday Kaul who shifted to Mizoram from UTCA this season, scored 326 runs in five matches including two centuries. With 102 first-class matches and 74 List A games under his belt, he used his experience well for the Mizoram team. He played for two seasons for UTCA before shifting to Mizoram for better opportunities. Even though his team did not qualify for the knockout stage, but 34-year-old Uday made most of the chance.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/vijayhazare-trophy-2-chandigarh-based-cricketers-playing-for-other-teams-have-fine-run-101639949065597.html
20-12-2021||Chandigarh||NH-44: Fog, incomplete maintenance work contribute to commuters’ woes||Given the prevailing foggy weather conditions and incomplete maintenance work, commuters taking the Delhi-Amritsar National Highway (NH-44) might face increased problems. Reconstruction of several roads, cleaning and painting of dividers and markings are still underway at several intersections between Ambala and Panipat. The road conditions worsened after torrential rainfall earlier in the year, which led to small portions of roads caving in.Authorities had put up spring posts and crash barricades, which were placed on the highway during the monsoon season in August after reports of the damage, which are still intact.The temporary blockades, however, divert vehicles coming from a lane on either end to its accompanying two on the six-lane highway, heightening the risk of accidents.Speaking of the measures undertaken, Virender Singh, project director of the NHAI, Ambala zone, said, “Maintenance work was undertaken at over 100 spots on the highway intersection to avert accidents,” “In the interest of the commuters, we began filling such carved portions after the monsoon ended. Now, for a long-lasting solution, we will start repair and reconstruction of the whole lane. Design has been finalized and I expect at least 15% of work will be done in this financial year,” he added.On being asked about the threat to speeding commuters due to diversion from on the lanes, he said the authorities had taken utmost care while placing these barricades. “These are made of fibre or plastic and will cause the least damage to a commuter. Our motive is to save human lives that is why the diversions will remain for at least the next six months or so,” the project director said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/nh44-fog-incomplete-maintenance-work-contribute-to-commuters-woes-101639948713562.html
20-12-2021||Chandigarh||AAP minister Satyendar Jain assures better environment for traders in Punjab||Senior Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) leader and Delhi health, public works and power minister Satyendar Jain has said that after the party forms a government in Punjab, its MLAs and officials will not demand unwarranted free partnerships in private businesses. Jain was speaking at a meeting with traders, businessmen and shopkeepers of Mohali and Kharar on Saturday evening.He said during his visit to Punjab, after meeting various businessmen and traders, he realised that they were afraid to start new projects because of corrupt politicians, who forcibly demanded shares in their businesses. Jain assured the businessmen that no AAP MLA will ever ask for anything from them, and instead businessmen and traders of Punjab will be provided better environment and opportunities to start and run their businesses. “This way, they’ll also assist the government in increasing employment in Punjab,” he added. Answering a query, Jain said the AAP government will provide basic facilities to everyone, irrespective of their financial status: “We have announced guarantees for the two most important things for everyone – better health and education. We will extend the benefits to all – poor, rich, middle-class, shopkeepers and traders.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/aap-minister-satyendar-jain-assures-better-environment-for-traders-in-punjab-101639948464163.html
20-12-2021||Chandigarh||PU study: MOFs efficient nanocarriers for targeted drug delivery||A research carried out at Panjab University (PU) has revealed that the metal-organic frameworks (MOF) class of materials are efficient nanocarriers for targeted drug delivery in the human body.Nanocarriers are nanoparticles that carry medicinal drugs to targeted sites in the body while minimising damage to the surrounding tissue. The study has been conducted by professor Dr Sanjeev Gautam and a master’s student, Juhi Singhal, at Dr SS Bhatnagar University Institute of Chemical Engineering and Technology (UICET). It has been recently published in an international journal, “Materials Today Chemistry” (2020 impact factor =8.301).Magnetic target drug delivery acts as an efficient method for carrying a drug directly to an organ or targeted location in the body by incorporating magnetically vulnerable material coated with a drug-laden matrix. Magnetic nanoparticles of MOF act as a drug carrier by targeting the treatment location without affecting the other healthy cells. MOFs, also known as porous coordination polymers (PCPs), are an emerging class of microporous materials consisting of metal clusters linked by polyfunctional organic linkers yielding three-dimensional porous networks.In this study, a metal-organic framework developed by Hong Kong University of Science and Technology (HKUST) has been used as a nanocarrier for drug delivery. The adsorption of the drug and releasing mechanism development are the major part of this research, including the electronic structure investigation of the drug delivery mechanism using synchrotron radiation research.The drug delivery application was carried out for HKUST-1 samples to check its versatility in daily use. Paracetamol was chosen as a model drug for the delivery. Further, solutions of concentrations up to 100 ppm were prepared by dissolving paracetamol in distilled water and were then calibrated at different concentration (ppm) levels. The drug delivery experiment was optimised using HKUST1 samples (synthesised for 10 and 48 hours) and calibrated 3.5 ppm of paracetamol (drug) solution by executing a comparative study.Sanjeev Gautam said, “The targeted drug delivery is a future technology for medicine delivery to specific cells without affecting the healthy cells. We found that the MOFs are efficient for this purpose and can be easily synthesised as compared to other nanostructured materials used as drug delivery vehicles presently.”He said that he has planned a future research project in this area and is collaborating with professors Rajat Sandhir (biochemistry) and Navdeep Goyal (physics) along with experts from PGIMER in his subsequent research in this area.
20-12-2021||Chandigarh||Mohali mayor inaugurates three open-air gyms||Mayor Amarjit Singh Sidhu on Sunday inaugurated three open-air gyms in Sector 70 and Phase 7. Actor Jaswinder Bhalla and former cabinet minister Balbir Singh Sidhu were also present at the inauguration of the gym in the ward of mayor Jeeti Sidhu. Also, a wall was demolished in Phase 10 to provide parking space.Speaking on the occasion, Balbir Sidhu said that the ongoing development works in Mohali are a clear indication that the promises he made to residents during the MC elections are being fulfilled. He added that it has been less than a year since the polls, but development works worth more than ₹100 crore are in progress.Speaking on the occasion, Bhalla said that Mohali now surpassing Chandigarh and Panchkula and he is a proud resident.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/mohali-mayor-inaugurates-three-open-air-gyms-101639947744098.html
20-12-2021||Chandigarh||Mohali: MP Manish Tewari inaugurates devp works in Majri block||Member of Parliament from Sri Anandpur Sahib, Manish Tewari, inaugurated a series of development works at Barsalpur Tapriyan village in Kharar’s Majri block on Sunday. Former Punjab cabinet minister Jagmohan Singh Kang accompanied him.Tewari inaugurated the construction work of a road leading to the solid waste management plant and cremation ground at the village.Tewari said that there will be no shortage of funds for development works and their aim is to provide urban facilities in villages. Both these development works will be carried at a cost of about ₹25 lakh, he added.Kang said that the development works in the constituency have accelerated during the Congress rule and the aim of the party is to take Punjab on the path of progress.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/mohali-mp-manish-tewari-inaugurates-devp-works-in-majri-block-101639947504101.html
20-12-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh nurses protest for higher salaries||Nurses from various government hospitals of Chandigarh, under the banner of Joint Action Nurses Committee Punjab and UT Chandigarh, held a candlelight march on Sunday to demand salary hikes as per the Sixth Pay Commission. While marching from Government Multi-Specialty Hospital (GMSH), Sector 16, to the Sector-17 Plaza, the protesters raised slogans against the Punjab government, as its rules are implemented for Chandigarh nurses as well.“The pay commission should be implemented from 2006. The grade pay of nurses in other states is ₹4,600, while the Punjab government has fixed it at ₹3,200. Similarly, for new joinees, the salary, which is ₹44,900 in other states, is ₹29,200 in Punjab. Nurses, who should come in Group B, have been brought to Group D by the Punjab government,” said Parminder Kaur, president, Nurses Association of GMSH-16.She added that nurses had been designated as nursing officers in many states of the country and Chandigarh, but the Punjab Government had not issued any notification in this regard.Dabkesh Kumar, convener, Joint Action Nurses Committee Punjab and UT Chandigarh, said, if the Punjab government did not act on these demands, the nurses will be forced to take more drastic steps.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-nurses-protest-for-higher-salaries-101639947204463.html
20-12-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: Another theft case registered against ‘biscuit’ man||A day after a 54-year-old Jammu native was arrested for robbing people after offering them biscuits laced with sedatives, one more victim came forward with a complaint. According to police, Rajinder Singh, 60, of Sector 66, Mohali, has levelled similar allegations against the accused, Krishan Lal, accusing him of stealing ₹30,000 in cash and other articles from him. Police are expecting more complaints against the accused, who was sent to three-day police remand by a court on Sunday. Singh, who runs a cloth shop in Papde village in Mohali, told the police that on September 13 this year, he was going to Delhi via a Haryana Roadways Bus. The accused was sitting next to him and offered him a biscuit when the bus reached Zirakpur. As he lost consciousness, the bus conductor took him to a hospital in Ballabgarh, Haryana, and he was later referred to Safdarjung Hospital in Delhi, where he regained consciousness after two days. On waking up, he realised his wallet containing ₹30,000 in cash and important documents, his gold ring and mobile phone were missing.On his complaint, police have registered a separate case under Sections 328 (causing hurt by means of poison with intent to commit an offence) and 379 (theft) of the Indian Penal Code at the Sector 17 police station. Officials said the sedatives seriously harmed Singh, who continued to face health issues due to biscuits given by Lal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarhanother-theft-case-registered-against-biscuit-man-101639947144112.html
20-12-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: Four cases of theft reported in past 24 hrs||Four theft cases were reported from the city in the past 24 hours and one man has been arrested.A cashbox containing around ₹1,200 was stolen from the Thakur Dwara temple in Manimajra. The accused is yet to be identified.A resident of Sector 52 was caught while trying to steal a battery from a jeep parked outside his house on the intervening night of Friday and Saturday. The accused, Vishal alias Nodi, 19, was caught by the owner of the car Vijay Kumar. He was arrested and sent to judicial custody.As many as 123 cartons of Bournvita, 15 of Nutella, 148 of instant noddles and 50 of ghee were stolen on the intervening night of Friday and Saturday from a plot near Guru Nanak Dharam Kanta in Daria village. No arrests have been made yet.A thief also broke into an empty house in Modern Housing Complex, Manimajra on Saturday. Police said the owner of the house, Nandan Karol, relocated to Shimla six months ago. The accused had broken the locks and entered the house, but left without stealing anything as there were no valuables.Theft cases have been registered in all four cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-four-cases-of-theft-reported-in-past-24-hrs-101639946904173.html
20-12-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh a reflection of mini-India: Union minister Nityanand Rai||Terming Chandigarh a reflection of mini-India, Union minister of state for home affairs, Nityanand Rai, said the all-round development of this city has made it the home and dream of many communities. The BJP-led municipal corporation has not only given respect, but also tried to provide benefits of government schemes to residents, which had made the city one of the best places to live in, he added.Rai was campaigning in support of BJP candidates in the city on Sunday, including Devi Singh (ward no. 20) in Behlana, Yogita Vicky Shera (ward no. 19) in Ram Darbar and finally for Jasmanpreet Singh (ward no. 32) in Sector 51.Rai, in his address, stated that people settled in Chandigarh from across the country have always spread the message of mutual brotherhood. During the Corona period, Chandigarh not only fulfilled the needs of migrants, but people from Delhi also came here for treatment.Appealing to residents to ensure the victory of BJP candidates in the upcoming elections, Rai said that the people of the city should vote for the Saffron Party in the name of development. Kataria campaigns for 2nd consecutive dayFormer Union minister of state for jal shakti and Ambala MP Ratan Lal Kataria campaigned in the city for the second consecutive day on Sunday. Kataria addressed a series of election rallies in support of Rajesh Kalia (ward no. 26) in Dadumajra, Manoj Sonkar (ward no.7) in Mauli Jagran and Bharat Kumar (ward no. 3) in Sector-52. Kataria said that the BJP has released its manifesto, keeping all sections of society in mind. He appealed to the voters to ensure that BJP candidates win in the upcoming MC polls to ensure a welfare state rather than again inviting a series of scam and scandals.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-a-reflection-of-mini-india-union-minister-nityanand-rai-101639946664148.html
20-12-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh MC polls: Cong to maintain roads, provide streetlights in societies, promises Pawan Bansal||“After coming to power at MC , the Congress will take up the responsibility of providing street lights and maintaining roads within the premises of all registered societies. The bills of street lights within the society will also be paid by MC. This will substantially reduce the financial burden on the residents substantially,” stated former Union minister Pawan Bansal, while addressing poll rallies at Sector 49 in ward no. 35 on Sunday.Bansal said that the Chandigarh Congress will involve residents’ welfare associations and management of the societies in pursuing the issue of conversion of lease hold properties into free hold ones at reasonable cost with the Chandigarh administration. He criticised the BJP for not taking up this issue despite their promise to do so in their 2016 election manifesto.He further said that the issue of awarding completion certificates to housing societies which have not received it yet will be taken up forcefully with the administration.People of Chandigarh fed up of mismanagement: SurjewalaRandeep Surjewala, general secretary and in-charge of the communication department of All india Congress Committee, on Sunday said that the people of Chandigarh are fed up with mismanagement and corruption of the BJP-led civic body. Surjewala was in city to release the vision document of Congress candidate from ward no. 34, Gurpreet Singh, at Ramleela Ground in Sector 46 . The document promised the opening of a sampark centre in Sector 46 and removal of all garbage from Sector 45.People have made up their mind for change: RanaWhile addressing public meetings in support of Congress candidates at various municipal wards of Chandigarh on Sunday, Sujanpur MLA and Congress’ co-ordinator for the MC elections, Rajinder Rana, said that the withered faces of BJP leaders are testifying that people have made up their mind for change. Rana said that despite being running the MC for six years, BJP could not fulfil its election promises and Chandigarh has been lagging behind in the matter of development and cleanliness.He added said that the BJP leaders have also put their army of big leaders in the streets of Chandigarh in these elections. These big leaders have often found themselves in a catch-22 situation, due to thin crowds and volley of questions from public over the BJP’s performance in the past six years, he added.Cong raises issue with BJP hoardingsThe Chandigarh Congress in a letter to the State Election Commission, UT, Chandigarh, has raised issue with the BJP placing hoardings on city roundabouts.In the letter, Rajesh Sharma, spokesperson of Chandigarh Territory Congress Committee, alleged that BJP has placed hoardings on the city roundabouts which is unauthorised, illegal and in clear violation of model code of conduct in view of upcoming MC elections.The letter further stated that BJP and AAP have taken advertisement spaces worth crores of rupees on rent at spaces such as outside public toilets in markets and cycle stands along the roads to influence voters, which is also in violation of the model code of conduct. The letter requested that such illegal boards or materials should immediately be removed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-mc-polls-cong-to-maintain-roads-provide-streetlights-in-societies-promises-pawan-bansal-101639946366018.html
20-12-2021||Chandigarh||Power crisis in Jammu and Kashmir: Army’s help sought||The Jammu and Kashmir administration has sought the help of the army in the restoration of electricity after major parts of the union territory were reeling under power blackout following an indefinite strike by the employees of the Jammu and Kashmir power development department (JKPDD) from Friday night.The PDD employees and J&K administration are at loggerheads over the latter’s decision to privatise the department’s assets and proposal to merge JKPDD into the Power Grid Corporation of India. The strike and the administration’s intransigence have put thousands of J&K residents to extreme hardships amid bone-chilling temperatures and Covid-19 pandemic as hundreds of patients are struggling to keep on to their oxygen concentrators.Divisional commissioner, Jammu, Raghav Langer has written to the department of military affairs, ministry of defence, requesting for the assistance of the army in the restoration of the essential services.“It is to bring to your kind notice that due to strike by electricity department personnel in the union territory of J&K, essential services have been severely affected in the Jammu region. We would like to hereby requisition the Indian army to assist in the restoration of the said essential services by provisioning manpower to man critical electricity stations and water supply sources,” the communication by Langer to the army said.The divisional commissioner, Jammu, earlier during the day held a meeting with the representatives of the employees which failed to make any major headway.The government requested the employee leaders to call off the strike after the meeting.“The Government of J&K, taking a sympathetic view of the issues raised, has engaged in several rounds of talks with Coordination Committee of the Power Employees. The government has already agreed on two of their major demands -putting on hold the proposal for formation of the joint venture and ensuring delay in salary is immediately resolved,” said the official twitter handle of department of information and public relations, Government of Jammu & Kashmir.It said during each round of talks, the government representatives have appealed to the power employees to call off their strike as people in both Jammu and Kashmir divisions are suffering. “In the wake of Covid contagion and nail-biting cold in both the divisions, the Coordination Committee of the Power Employees is requested to end its strike,” it said.All J&K Power Employees and Engineers Coordination Committee (JKPECC) leader Majid Munshi’s phone was switched off. Another leader of the committee, Sachin Tickoo told the media that they were opposing the systematic transfer of assets. “They are selling the assets of the transmission sector. They want to give 50% shareholding to the power grid which is against the interests of Jammu and Kashmir,” he told a news channel.The strike has plunged large swathes of the union territory into darkness amid the chilling temperatures as the employees refuse to rectify any faults.Political parties have criticised the J&K administration for its “incompetence” and inconvenience people have been facing.Peoples Conference general secretary Imran Reza Ansari said: “The strike of power sector employees has exposed the incompetence and callousness of current administration. On one hand livelihood of thousands of power sector employees is at stake, on the hand the survival of millions of citizens of J&K.”“The army has been called to operate the power infrastructure in the Jammu division of J&K. There is no bigger admission of failure for a civilian administration than to call upon the army. It means a total breakdown of governance has been accepted by the J&K government,” said Omar Abdullah, J&K former chief minister.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/power-crisis-in-jammu-and-kashmir-army-s-help-sought-101639946304102.html
20-12-2021||Chandigarh||Srinagar emerges as vegetable basket, begins export to UAE||Kashmir is emerging as the vegetable basket as the first-ever Farmer Producer Organisation has been set up in Srinagar and vegetables cultivated in Srinagar have also been exported to Sharjah (UAE).If all goes as per the plan, officials said the export of vegetables to foreign countries will open new opportunities for those growing vegetables in the Valley, especially in Srinagar.Recently, district development commissioner, Srinagar, Mohammad Ajaz Asad gave approval for the setting up of one farmer produce organisation (FPO) in Tengpora under the Central sector scheme of FPOs implemented by NABARD.“The sanctioned FPO will benefit the targeted farmers for promoting market linkages of vegetables like squash, capsicum and brinjal which are produced in bulk from Srinagar district. The FPO will be registered with an initial membership of 192 farmers and steps will be taken to enhance the membership in coming months,” said a senior officer.Asad said the FPO is an institutional mechanism to reduce the cost of production, increase per unit production and facilitate better market linkage so as to enhance the income of farmers. “We will provide an end-to-end solution to the problems confronted by the farmers. They will be free to manage their affairs from the production level to post-harvest and marketing of their branded products,” he said.Chief agriculture officer, Srinagar, Chowdhary Mohammad Younis said there was a huge export potential of vegetables from the Srinagar district which can be further enhanced through FPO promotion. “For the first time vegetables have been exported from Kashmir to Sharjah (UAE) through Lulu Group in which Srinagar district contributes more than 90% of the export produce,” he said.Officials said the FPO can become eligible to get equity grant support to the tune of ₹15 lakh per FPO and can avail of collateral-free credit guarantee support up to ₹2 crore from banks and other financial institutions.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/srinagar-emerges-as-vegetable-basket-begins-export-to-uae-101639946244299.html
20-12-2021||Chandigarh||1 death, 136 Covid cases in Jammu and Kashmir; Srinagar reports 50 infections||Jammu and Kashmir reported a death and 136 fresh Covid-19 infections on Sunday, an official health bulletin said. Of the total cases, 114 cases and a death were reported in Kashmir valley and while the Jammu division saw 22 infections. The union territory reported highest 50 cases in summer capital Srinagar followed by 19 cases in Baramulla. As many as 15 districts saw single digit or zero cases.Srinagar district has the highest number of active cases at 536 followed by Jammu and Baramulla districts with 200 and 184 active cases respectively.The number of patients who were cured in the UT was 142 with active positive cases reaching 1,451.The government’s daily health bulletin also said that 31,799 vaccine doses were administered taking overall doses administered in the UT to 1.759 crores.The overall number of people who have recovered reached 3,33,864 prompting the recovery rate to reach 98.24%. Since the pandemic started, the overall cases in J&K have reached 3,39,827 and the death toll has reached 4,512.The officials said that 54,153 tests were conducted in the past 24 hours in the UT.The Jammu district has the highest number of 1,154 fatalities followed by Srinagar with 879 deaths.Covid trackerTotal cases: 3,39,827Total recovered patients: 3,33,864Total Deaths: 4512Active Cases: 1451||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/1-death-136-covid-cases-in-jammu-and-kashmir-srinagar-reports-50-infections-101639946185636.html
20-12-2021||Chandigarh||Two arrested on charges of spying for Pakistan in Jammu and Kashmir’s Rajouri||Two persons were arrested on charges of spying for Pakistan in a village in the border district of Rajouri in Jammu and Kashmir, officials said on Sunday.A man working as a porter with the Army and his relative, both residents of Nowshera, were picked up by a joint team of the Army and police on specific information late on Saturday, they said.The arrested Nazir Hussain and Mohammed Mukhtar are accused of taking videos of vital and sensitive security installations and sharing them with their handlers outside the country in lieu of money.According to the officials, the two had shot a video clip in the Army premises (erstwhile tactical headquarters of Rashtriya Rifles) on a mobile phone. “A piece of information was received at the Rajouri police station on December 16 regarding an espionage racket operating in the area… On this complaint, both the accused have been arrested and further investigation is underway,” a police spokesperson said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/two-arrested-on-charges-of-spying-for-pakistan-in-jammu-and-kashmir-s-rajouri-101639946184179.html
20-12-2021||Chandigarh||Shimla: Teachers are builders of nation, says Jai Ram Thakur||The education system should be such in which the future generations could be inspired to move forward with their culture, civilisation and values of life, chief minister Jai Ram Thakur said on Sunday. He was addressing a function organised by Akhil Bhartiya Shikshak Mahasangh at Kufri, near Shimla. The CM said the teachers were the builders of the nation and the guides of society. “They help shape the character of their students, who then play a leading role in nation-building by becoming ideal citizens,” he said. He said that under the leadership of Prime Minister Narendra Modi, the country was progressing continuously in the direction of regaining its status of “Vishwa Guru” by cherishing its cultural values and sacraments. He said that under the current regime in Himachal may effective steps have been taken in the direction of providing quality education to the students from elementary education to university level. The chief minister said innovative efforts made in the field of education in Himachal Pradesh have been appreciated at the national level. The state government has started many ambitious schemes to enhance the quality of education in the state and today Himachal Pradesh was one of the most developed states in the field of education, he claimed. On this occasion, the chief minister and spiritual leader Gyananand Maharaj jointly honoured professor Kapil Kapoor, Dr Badri Prasad Pancholi and Renu Dandekar with the Shiksha Bhushan Award. Earlier, the chief minister also visited the exhibition put up by various departments based on the developmental schemes and programmes of the state government. National president of Rashtriya Shiksha Mahasangh Professor JP Singhal, national organisation secretary Mahender Kapoor, secretary Pawan Mishra, state president Pawan Kumar, senior vice-president Mamraj Pundir and general secretary Vinod Sood were among those present on the occasion.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/shimla-teachers-are-builders-of-nation-says-jai-ram-thakur-101639946130865.html
20-12-2021||Chandigarh||In 5 years, Himachal incurred ₹320.18-crore cumulative losses: CAG report||Himachal Pradesh is incurring huge losses every year due to the difference between interest on government borrowings and returns from investments, a report of the Comptroller and Auditor General (CAG) has revealed.The report was tabled in the Himachal Pradesh assembly last week on the concluding day of the winter session.As per the report, in five years from 2015-16 to 2019-20, the state has incurred cumulative losses of ₹320.18 crore.The government as of March 31, 2020, had invested ₹4,261.06 crore in statutory corporations, rural banks, joint-stock companies and cooperatives.Out of the total investment of ₹4,261.06 crore, investment of ₹3,809.76 crore (89%) was in five companies — ₹1,098.14 crore in Satluj Jal Vidyut Nigam Limited (SJVNL); ₹263.50 crore in Himachal Pradesh Power Transmission Corporation Ltd (HPPTCL); ₹862.64 crore in Himachal Pradesh Power Corporation Limited (HPPCL); ₹743.87 crore in Himachal Pradesh State Electricity Board Ltd (HPBSE) and ₹841.60 crore in Himachal Road Transport Corporation (HRTC).“The state government keeps on making investments in loss-making government companies,” the report states.The average return on these investments was 6.05% in the last five years while the government paid an average interest rate of 7.63% on its borrowings during the given period.The year 2016-17 was the only time when the government got more returns (8.79%) than the interest paid on borrowings (7.60%).The report further states that seven government companies with an aggregate investment of ₹2,128.87 crore were incurring losses and their accumulated losses amounted to ₹1,919.41 crore.Out of seven losses-incurring government companies, losses of ₹1651.29 crore in three companies –Himachal Pradesh Financial Corporation (HPFC), HRTC and Himachal Pradesh State Forest Development Corporation Limited (HPSFDC) constituted 86% of the total losses of government companies.Out of total investment of ₹412.23 crore made during 2019-20, the state government invested ₹298.14 crore in three loss-incurring companies.“The state government may consider reviewing the working of state PSUs which are incurring huge losses, formulate a strategic plan for their revival or closure,” the report suggests.Erosion of net worthNet worth means the sum total of the paid-up capital, free reserves and surplus reduced by accumulated losses and deferred revenue expenditure. Essentially, it is a measure of what an entity is worth to the owners. A negative net worth indicates that the entire investment of the owners has been eroded due to accumulated losses.As on March 31, 2020, the overall accumulated losses of the seven loss-incurring companies were ₹1,919.41 crore as against the capital investment of ₹2,128.87 crore resulting in erosion of net worth of the investments to ₹209.46 crore, says the report.Out of this, in two loss-incurring DISCOMs, the overall accumulated losses were ₹169.06 crore as against the capital investment of ₹1,134.13 crore, thus the erosion of net worth to ₹965.07 crore, it added.
20-12-2021||Chandigarh||Show urgency in punishing those behind sacrilege: Sukhbir to Punjab govt||Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) president Sukhbir Badal on Sunday said the recurrence of sacrilege incidents points at deep-rooted conspiracy against Sikhism. Sukhbir, who held rallies in Talwandi Sabo and Mansa in support of the party nominees on Sunday, urged the Union and Punjab governments to show a sense of urgency to identify and punish those behind the alleged conspiracy. He charged the Congress-led Punjab government with its failure in cracking previous incidents of desecration of holy scriptures. “The Union & state government must demonstrate sincerity and a sense of urgency in their actions to identify, expose and punish those behind the most painful acts of sacrilege against Sikh Panth. There is more politics on their minds than the pursuit of real culprits (sic),” said Sukhbir in a tweet. In another tweet, Sukhbir wrote: “Those committing these nefarious deeds were emboldened and went scot-free as Congress govt in Punjab wasted nearly 5 yrs in playing dirty politics. The guilty of these acts at Sri Harmandar Sahib & Kapurthala would have escaped if SGPC and the devotees were not vigilant (sic).” Meanwhile, former Punjab chief minister Parkash Singh Badal in a statement termed the Harmandar Sahib sacrilege as “deeply shocking and painful”. He said that it was unbelievable that such a painful and brazen crime could be committed at the holiest shrine of by an individual. Seeking a probe into the matter, Badal said those behind this should be given exemplary punishment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/show-urgency-in-punishing-those-behind-sacrilege-sukhbir-to-punjab-govt-101639946004130.html
20-12-2021||Delhi||In a first, DPCC to study microplastics pollution in River Yamuna||In a first-of-its-kind survey by a government body in the national capital, the Delhi Pollution Control Committee (DPCC) will conduct a study to ascertain the concentration, distribution and composition of microplastics in River Yamuna, besides soil, vegetables and other edible products. The pollution control body will also examine if the soil in the floodplains of River Yamuna is fit for agriculture, according to officials.Microplastics are fragments of any type of plastic less than five millimetres, according to the US National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration and the European Chemicals Agency. They enter natural ecosystems from a variety of sources, including cosmetics, clothing, and industrial processes.Studies conducted earlier have shown that microplastics carry bacteria that are pathogenic to human and natural biota, and can enrich antibiotic resistant genes from municipal activated sludge. The polymeric compounds and additives such as copper ions used in the production of plastics are toxic. Also, microplastics absorb various toxins in water that subsequently desorb inside the host organism. The Yamuna floodplains, stretching 48 kilometres from Palla to Okhla, will be divided into three stretches of 16 km each for the study: Delhi Segment I (Palla to Wazirabad), Delhi Segment II (Wazirabad to Nizamuddin Bridge) and Delhi Segment III (Nizamuddin Bridge to Okhla), according to the terms of reference prepared by the DPCC.A DPCC official said the idea to study the presence of microplastics in River Yamuna and the national capital originated after an MP asked a question in Parliament about microplastics in River Ganga."It is sad that we have not conducted any such study in the national capital," the official said, citing a report by environment research and advocacy organisation, Toxics Link. The Toxics Link study on River Ganga threw up alarming results as "microplastics were found in all the samples". "Locations with higher population density and greater industrialisation (textile, tannery, etc.) had a higher microplastics concentration in the river," the report says."Compared to the concentration of microplastics in rivers such as the Rhine in Europe, the Patapsco, Magothy, Rhode in North America, the Elqui, Maipo, Biobio, and Maule in South America, the pollution is much higher in the Ganga," according to a report by Dr Mahua Saha, a senior scientist at the National Institute of Oceanography, Goa, and his team. As river water is used for drinking and irrigation purposes quite extensively, an increased concentration of microplastics increases the potential harm it can cause to organisms and humans.As part of another study, the DPCC will examine the soil of the Yamuna for various contaminants and its fitness for agriculture and remediation possibilities."River Yamuna is one of the most important rivers of India and is highly polluted.The river water and the adjacent soil are contaminated with various pollutants, including heavy metals. In this study, the effects of seasonal variations and heavy metal contamination in Yamuna water on physicochemical  properties and enzyme activities of soil will be observed," the terms of reference read. Sampling will be collected from 10 points along the river course in summer, monsoon and winter. PTI GVS CJ CJ||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/in-a-first-dpcc-to-study-microplastics-pollution-in-river-yamuna-101639945758093.html
20-12-2021||Delhi||Delhi Police nab man for duping people of ₹2.5cr||A 37-year-old man was arrested for allegedly duping people of approximately ₹2.5 crore by making false promises of offering them freebies and bonuses on their insurance policies, police said on Sunday.The accused, Sandeep Kumar Soni, hails from Bihar’s Patna and carried a reward of ₹25,000 for his arrest. He was living in Pune under a false identity for the last six years and was arrested from the city during a raid, the police said. Seven other accused have already been arrested in connection with the case, according to police.The group members posed as LIC officials. They lured victims to deposit money in different bank accounts opened using fake IDs on the pretext of offering them bonuses and incentives under various policies, the police said.The matter came to light in 2015 after the executive director of a public insurance company filed a complaint alleging that some people were posing as employees of the firm and offering incentives like free credit cards and mediclaim benefits, etc., to policyholders, they said.According to the complaint, the policyholders were asked to make payments in cash or through cheques in favour of some private agencies or companies, those aware of the matter said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-police-nab-man-for-duping-people-of-25cr-101639945582480.html
20-12-2021||Chandigarh||Cold wave sweeps Punjab, Haryana; Amritsar reels at minus 0.5 deg C||Severe cold swept Punjab and Haryana early on Sunday, with Amritsar reeling at a minimum temperature of minus 0.5 degrees Celsius.According to the meteorological department officials here, the night temperatures hovered well below normal limits at most places in the two states.They said moderate fog was reported from Amritsar and Ludhiana in the morning.Amritsar’s minimum temperature settled four notches below normal limits.The other places in Punjab which reeled under piercing cold weather conditions included Halwara, which recorded a low of 0.0 degrees Celsius; Bathinda, that saw a low of 0.1 degrees Celsius; Faridkot, where the minimum temperature settled at 1 degrees Celsius and Pathankot, which recorded a low of 1.5 degrees Celsius.Ludhiana (5.1 degrees Celsius), Patiala (4.6 degrees Celsius) and Gurdaspur (2.4 degrees Celsius) also experienced a cold night.Chandigarh, the common capital of the two states, recorded a low of 3.2 degrees Celsius, down four notches from normal.In Haryana, Sirsa was the coldest place recording a low of 0.6 degrees Celsius.Ambala (4.9 degrees Celsius), Hisar (2 degrees Celsius), Narnaul (1.2 degrees Celsius), Rohtak (3.8 degrees Celsius), also reeled under biting cold while Gurugram and Bhiwani recorded respective minimums of 7.4 degrees and 5.1 degrees Celsius.Churu in Rajasthan reported the lowest minimum temperature of minus 2.6 degrees Celsius in northwest India followed by Sikar (minus 2.5 degrees Celsius), the IMD said.The Safdarjung Observatory, which provides representative data for Delhi, recorded a minimum temperature of 4.6 degrees Celsius, three notches below normal and the lowest this season so far.Some parts of Uttarakhand reported dense fog. The India Meteorological Department (IMD) predicted that cold wave to severe cold wave conditions are very likely to continue in northwest India over the next three days and abate thereafter.Dense fog is predicted in a few regions of Uttarakhand over the next two days and in Punjab and Haryana on December 23 and 24, it said.Cold and dry northwesterly winds, gusting up to 15 kmph, are likely to continue over the plains of northwest India till Tuesday, “enhancing the adverse impact of cold wave and cold day conditions”, the weather office said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/cold-wave-sweeps-punjab-haryana-amritsar-reels-at-minus-0-5-deg-c-101639945046391.html
20-12-2021||Delhi||Govt to come up with startup policy: Atishi||Atishi, AAP MLA from Kalkaji and former advisor to education minister of Delhi, on Sunday said the Delhi government will soon bring a policy to support startups in Delhi-NCR.Addressing a global conclave in the city on Sunday, Atishi said it was crucial to work towards developing an entrepreneurial mindset, right from school, and the Delhi government’s Business Blasters program was a step in that direction.As part of the Business Blasters programme that was launched in September, students in classes 11 and 12 will be mentored and provided financial capital of ₹2,000 as seed money to help kick-start their business ideas.The Business Blasters television programme was started recently and gives students an opportunity to present their projects to investors. The fourth episode of the Delhi government’s Business Blasters on Sunday saw students proposing ideas such as an app-based stitching service.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/govt-to-come-up-with-startup-policy-atishi-101639944817509.html
20-12-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab logs 47 fresh Covid-19 cases||Punjab on Sunday witnessed 47 fresh Covid-19 cases and one virus-related death, according to a medical bulletin of the state health department. With Sunday cases, the state’s patient tally has reached 6,03,962, it said. The number of active cases in the state stands at 319. Among the fresh cases, SAS Nagar witnessed 11, Hoshiarpur seven, while Kapurthala and Jalandhar reported five each. With the recovery of 31 patients from the infection, the number of cured persons has reached 587,014, it said. Till now, 16,629 people have lost their lives due to the virus. The state’s positivity rate for the day remained 0.21%, the bulletin said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-logs-47-fresh-covid-19-cases-101639944744920.html
20-12-2021||Chandigarh||Golden Temple sacrilege: Will ensure thorough probe to unmask real conspirators, says Channi||Expressing deep anguish over the sacrilege at the sanctum-sanctorum of Darbar Sahib on Saturday, Punjab chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi reiterated his government’s commitment to “thoroughly probe the matter to unmask the real conspirators behind the dastardly act”. Talking to mediapersons here after paying obeisance at the Darbar Sahib, Channi, who was accompanied by deputy CM Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa, said the heinous act has hurt the religious sentiments of one and all. He appealed to the people to take due care and caution to protect the religious places in order to foil the nefarious designs of forces that be ahead of the assembly elections. The chief minister also urged the people to exercise restraint and uphold the ethos of peace, harmony, brotherhood and religious tolerance. He called upon the people to extend support and cooperation to the state government in maintaining law and order. “No one will be allowed to disturb the peaceful atmosphere in the state,” he said. Replying to a query regarding chances of recurrence of such incidents, Channi said state intelligence agencies and police are pro-actively engaged to avert such acts. Meanwhile, the Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (SGPC) started an Akhand Path (uninterrupted recitation of Guru Granth Sahib) was started at Manji Sahib Diwan Hall of Golden Temple complex as repentance to the incident.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/golden-temple-sacrilege-will-ensure-thorough-probe-to-unmask-real-conspirators-says-channi-101639944327291.html
20-12-2021||Delhi||Young people need jobs, not hate politics, says Rai||State environment minister and the Aam Aadmi Party’s Delhi convener Gopal Rai on Sunday participated in the “Rozgar Sansad” at Jantar Mantar on Sunday for deliberations on creating a ‘draft national employment’ policy.Rai said that the youth of the country need jobs and employment opportunities, not hate politics.Over 30 student organisations, RWAs and teachers’ bodies participated in the event organised by ‘Desh Ki Baat Foundation’ to highlight the issues around employment opportunities for citizens. The draft of the “National Employment Policy” will be given to Prime Minister Office and members of the parliament.Gopal Rai is the founder of “Desh Ki Baat Foundation”.“Even with degrees, young people are wandering from door to door for work. Far from creating new employment, recruitment is not being done on lakhs of vacant government vacancies across the country,” Rai said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/young-people-need-jobs-not-hate-politics-says-rai-101639943214828.html
20-12-2021||Chandigarh||Dominant clan announces social boycott of another over a marriage in Haryana’s Jind||In a dictat, the members of the dominant Chahal clan (a Jat sub-caste) in Jind’s Kamach Khera village allegedly announced social boycott of the Khokhar clan (another Jat clan) after a youth belonging to the latter clan married a girl whose grandmother hails from Chahal clan from the neighbouring Deverar village.In his complaint to the Julana police, Sunil Kumar said his younger brother Raveen alias Chotu, of Kamach Khera village, married Ritu, of Nandal village, on December 17.“Few influential people of our village, belonging to the Chahal clan, have announced a social boycott of our clan by accusing us of breaking social harmony and brotherhood. They claimed that Ritu’s grandmother belonged to their clan and hailed from the neighbouring Deverar village, another Chahal clan dominated village,” he said.“The Chahal clan said Ritu’s grandmother hailed from their clan which means she is their granddaughter and they will oppose this marriage. Later, Deverar villagers associated with the Chahal clan also joined them by supporting their diktat,” the complainant added.He alleged that their family has grown carrots on five acre rented land, which was also taken back by the owner.“The owner said he will not allow us to take care of the crop. The influential people have announced to ban our ‘hookah-paani’,” the complainant said.A group of people from the Khokhar clan went to meet Jind deputy commissioner on Saturday to hand over their complaint and in the DC’s absence, they submitted the same to SDM Ved Parkash.Pardeep Kumar, former sarpanch of Kamach Khera village, said he got to know that the Chahal clan has announced a social boycott after their son’s marriage but he was not present in the panchayat.Jind SDM Ved Parkash said he has received a complaint and they are investigating the issue.“Such orders are not permitted in a civilised society and action will be initiated against those who announced the social boycott,” the SDM added.Slamming the move, sociologist and retired Rohtak MDU professor Neerja Ahalwat said girls are doing well in Haryana and yet some people are against their choice to marry.“Traditionally, we used to avoid gotras of mother, father, grandmother and maternal grandmother. But nowadays, we are leaving only father and mother’s clans in fixing marriages. In this case, the couple had solemnised their love marriage by following gotras,” she said.“If some people have a problem with this, they should distance themselves from the family but a social ban is unacceptable. Such people still believe in patriarchy. Haryana’s influential khaps and other society leaders are also mum on this issue. If a girl can choose her career, why cannot she choose her life partner?” she added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/dominant-clan-announces-social-boycott-of-another-over-a-marriage-in-haryana-s-jind-101639943003979.html
20-12-2021||Chandigarh||Navjot Sidhu ‘political mercenary’, divided Punjab Congress: Rana Gurjeet||A fresh rift has broken out in the Punjab Congress with cabinet minister Rana Gurjeet Singh on Sunday lashing out at the state unit president Navjot Singh Sidhu for trying to create divisions within the party and questioning the loyalty of true and traditional Congressmen. Calling the state unit chief a “political mercenary” bereft of any principles or ideology, Rana said that Sidhu had joined the party with the sole purpose of becoming the chief minister. “It is an irony that someone who is basically a political party hopper and has not even spent five years in the party, is preaching and pontificating to people like us who have spent an entire lifetime in the service of the party,” the cabinet minister said in a stinging response to Sidhu’s remarks against him. The cabinet minister’s full-blown attack on the PPCC chief came a day after the latter at a public meeting in Sultanpur Lodhi had said that it was the end of the road for Rana. Sidhu also backed Sultanpur Lodhi MLA Navtej Cheema with whom the minister has been having a continuous rift. Cheema was among the MLAs who had opposed Rana’s return to the state cabinet three months ago. Taking a dig at Sidhu’s flip-flops, Rana claimed that keeping in mind Sidhu’s unstable and eccentric behaviour, nobody was sure whether he would stay in the Congress till the Vidhan Sabha elections or run off from the battle of ballot well before. “But sooner you leave, better it will be for the party as you have divided and damaged the party from within as if you were pursuing some hidden agenda of your ‘real’ political masters who are still pulling your strings,” Rana said. The cabinet minister also questioned the intentions of Sidhu in opposing his own government and the chief minister, saying that he had now been exposed. “You have been openly criticising our chief minister as you have started feeling jealous and insecure about his popularity among the masses,” Rana said, warning Sidhu against weakening the party by trying to create divisions and fissures. “As party president, your key responsibility is to keep the party united, but you did not leave any stone unturned to create fissures in the campaign committee, manifesto committee, and screening committee constituted by the party high command,” he added. He also asked the PPCC chief to mind his language while talking about a true Congressman.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/navjot-sidhu-political-mercenary-divided-punjab-congress-rana-gurjeet-101639942943999.html
20-12-2021||Chandigarh||Setting an example: Two Haryana brides cancel wedding after dowry demands||In Haryana, at least two marriages were called-off in the recent weeks after the grooms allegedly demanded luxury cars ahead of the wedding.The first case was reported from Mahendergarh district, where a sub-inspector of the Border security force (BSF) demanded either a Creta or a Harrier car from the bride’s family.The bride and her brother recorded the phone call in which the sub-inspector purportedly complained about the furniture given by her family in lagan (days ahead of the wedding).The groom allegedly scolded the bride over the phone stating that he receives a monthly salary of ₹70,000 and despite that “the quality of bed, sofa set and furniture given by the family is poor”.“Your father has given ₹1 in dowry. I had asked for either a Creta or a Harrier car. I don’t need any small car,” he added.Later, the girl’s family and locals held a panchayat and decided to cancel the wedding, which was scheduled to be solemnised on November 22.On the girl’s complaint, the groom, his father and mother were arrested by the Mahendergarh police for seeking dowry and later released on bail.In the second incident, the Karnal police on December 7, booked a groom, his father and uncle for allegedly demanding ₹20 lakh cash and a Fortuner during a marriage on December 6.In her complaint, the bride, who is a legal advisor with the Haryana government’s education department in Panchkula, had alleged that the groom, of Jind, who is a scientist and employed in the Union government, allegedly demanded an SUV and ₹20 lakh cash when the wedding ceremony was going on.After high drama, the marriage was not solemnised and both parties filed complaints against each other at Karnal’s Civil lines police station.Karnal city DSP Abhilaksh Joshi said the groom and the bride had approached the police and signed a compromise deed.“We are investigating the case thoroughly and will see how both the parties react,” he added.Haryana women commission’s officiating chairperson Preeti Bhardwaj Dalal said they have taken suo moto in both the cases and she is personally monitoring the probe.“Police probe is on and we are yet to receive a report. It is encouraging that girls are fighting against dowry. The state government has already asked government employees to file in writing about their marriage and dowry-related details,” Dalal said.“In the Karnal case, I had visited the girl’s family. The groom has apologised to the bride and her family. He has also urged people not to take dowry,” she added.Meham Chaubisi president Tulsi Grewal said the khaps are organising seminars asking people not to give or accept dowry.“After witnessing the recent cases of dowry in which girls have showed exemplary courage, we have decided to educate our elders and the daughters on the issue. Police should take strict action against those demanding dowry,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/setting-an-example-two-haryana-brides-cancel-wedding-after-dowry-demands-101639942704026.html
20-12-2021||Delhi||CAQM may ease construction curbs for NCR||The Commission for Air Quality Management (CAQM) on Sunday said it could announce lifting of some more restrictions in the construction sector on Monday, following an improvement in air quality across NCR over the last three days.Delhi’s overall air quality index (AQI) returned to the ‘poor’ category on Saturday, with the Central Pollution Control Board’s daily 4 pm bulletin recording a reading of 291. It improved even further on Sunday, dropping down to a reading of 271 (poor) at 4 pm. In comparison, Delhi’s AQI was 368 (very poor) on Thursday and 329 (very poor) on Friday – the day the CAQM announced for the ban on construction activities to continue across NCR.However, in its order, the Commission had announced for some more exemptions to be added to the existing lift of exemptions in the construction sector. These included exemptions for hospitals, nursing homes and healthcare facilities; linear public projects such as highways, roads and flyover and sanitation and public utility projects such as sewage treatment plants and water pumping stations.“In view of the significant improvement in air quality in NCR over last three days, a decision to further liberalise restrictions in the construction sector could be taken as early as Monday,” said the central air quality panel in a statement on Sunday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/caqm-may-ease-construction-curbs-for-ncr-101639942468371.html
20-12-2021||Chandigarh||Army capable of protecting borders along China: Ex-army chief Deepak Kapoor||Former army chief General Deepak Kapoor (retd) said the army is capable of dealing with any threat and protect the country’s borders along China.“In the past 70 years, we have been dealing with them and we have a good understanding of the Salami Slicing tactics of China as it tried to expand its borders. The Indian Army is fully alert and capable of protecting our borders along the LAC whether it is eastern Ladakh or Arunachal Pradesh. The army will do a good job in ensuring territorial integrity of the country,” he said during his visit to Karnal on Sunday.Gen Kapoor was in Karnal to attend the Old Boys Meet at the Sainik School Kunjpura (SSK) on Sunday. He hailed the contributions of country’s first CDS late General Bipin Rawat saying Gen Rawat played an important role in the army and has given a great leadership to the services.Responding to a question related to the relationship of the ‘jawans’ and ‘kisans’, he said both the communities are deeply linked with each other and in serving the country. While farmers help in growth of the country, soldiers contribute towards its protection.He said it is a coincidence that the SSK is celebrating its diamond jubilee this year as the school started in 1961 and he was among the students of the first batch.The ex-army chief said the main objective of sainik schools is to produce good and responsible citizens so that they can serve the country and contribute to the progress of the country. He said the schools have played an important role in developing leadership quality in people of different fields, besides the army.Principal Col Vijay Rana said the school has organised the Old Boys Meet and invited around 300 old students who had studied in the school. The visitors paid tributes to the old students who had sacrificed their lives for the country.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/army-capable-of-protecting-borders-along-china-ex-army-chief-deepak-kapoor-101639941924046.html
20-12-2021||Chandigarh||Panipat police forms SIT to probe minor murder||Having failed to trace the accused in the murder of a seven-year-old girl, the Panipat police have formed a special investigation team (SIT) to investigate the case.As per an official communication issued by the office of superintendent of police (SP) Shashank Kumar Sawan, an SIT was formed under SSP Pooja Vashishtha. DSP (crime against women) Pradeep Kumar and SHO Samalkha will be members of the SIT.The SP has increased the amount of cash reward for information on the accused from ₹50,000 to ₹2 lakh.Taking serious note of police failure in arresting the accused, Karnal inspector general of police (Karnal range) Mamta Singh also visited Panipat. She reached the spot of the crime along with the Panipat SP. She said strict instructions have been issued to the SIT and the culprit will soon be behind the bars.As per the complaint filed by father of the deceased child, his daughter had gone to a community kitchen organised in the village last Sunday and had not returned home.Last Tuesday, her mutilated body was recovered. Police had registered an FIR under Sections 365 and 302 of the IPC, and later Sections of the POCSO Act were added.As per investigators, unnatural sex attempts were also confirmed in the postmortem report of the girl and there were injuries around her neck due to strangulation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/panipat-police-forms-sit-to-probe-minor-murder-101639941744002.html
20-12-2021||Mumbai||BMC’s 48 inspection teams to conduct surprise checks for Covid-19 appropriate behaviour||Mumbai: The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) has decided to form a total of 48 inspection teams - two teams in each of the 24 administrative wards in the city, to conduct surprise inspections at marriage halls, malls, multiplexes and restaurants, and ensure that citizens and establishments are following covid-19 appropriate behaviour. This comes owing to the rise in the number of Omicron cases in the city, and after the civic body on Saturday urged Mumbaiites to avoid gathering or organising parties for Christmas or New Year’s Eve.These surprise inspections will take place only at public commercial places, and not for private gatherings or parties, the civic body said on Sunday. Suresh Kakani, additional municipal commissioner in-charge of BMC’s public health department said, “At the ward level, the civic body will contact marriage halls, commercial open spaces, and take down a list of dates from that are booked for private gatherings. Wards have been instructed to conduct these surprise inspections and check if everyone is adhering to covid-19 appropriate behaviour. Restaurants will be the last places we will check, even though they will not be ignored, as citizens visit restaurants to eat, so their masks are going to be off. However, we will check if they are operating at the allowed capacity during our inspections”Owing to increasing Omicron cases, BMC on Saturday appealed to citizens to avoid gathering or organising parties for Christmas or new year celebrations. The BMC in a statement appealed to citizens to follow the existing rule of 50% capacity in marriage halls and 25% capacity in the open lawn. However, in case of more than 1,000 guests, permission will have to be taken from local district administration, said the BMC. Currently, restaurants, bars and nightclubs are allowed to remain open till 12.30 am at 50% capacity.Action to be taken against those flouting covid-19 guidelines will be based on the magnitude of the violation, Kakani said. If quests are found to be without masks, then they will be fined ₹200 each for not wearing masks. If the organisers have not ensured social distancing, a warning will be given to the organisers. However, the organisers of events will also be booked by the BMC in case the situation is very serious, Kakani said. “If we find that the premises are operating at full capacity and not adhering to our guidelines, punitive action will be taken against the organisers.”According to BMC officials, the state government has empowered the BMC to levy a ₹10,000 fine on individuals or establishments for violating norms.Mumbai on Sunday reported four more Covid-19 cases infected with the Omicron variant, taking the total number of Omicron tally of patients in the city to 22. However, the four Omicron patients reported on Sunday were detected during screening at the Mumbai international airport. Out of the 22 cases in Mumbai detected with the Omicron variant, two are from Karnataka, and one each from Chhattisgarh, Kerala, Jalgaon, and Aurangabad.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/bmcs-48-inspection-teams-to-conduct-surprise-checks-for-covid-19-appropriate-behaviour-101639939883109.html
20-12-2021||Mumbai||BMC plans smart traffic signals at 70 junctions across 12 roads||MUMBAI: The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) will conduct a detailed survey of 70 traffic junctions in the city to upgrade conventional traffic signals to an intelligent traffic signal system.A total 12 roads have been selected for this project across which 70 traffic junctions have been identified by the civic body. Some of the prominent roads include B A road, Senapati Bapat road, Belassis road, R A Kidwai road, Sir J J road, P D’mello road and Shahid Bhagat Singh road.A topographical study of the junctions will be carried out, including road width, traffic signal poles, footpaths, trees, pedestrian crossings, chamber ducts and utility crossings; building boundaries and entrances; traffic count, pedestrian count, impact on journey time, parking areas nearby and vending areas nearby. Based on the data collected and the outcomes, a feasibility study for the intelligent traffic system will be carried out. The BMC will appoint a consultant for the project, who will be required to monitor the air quality of the area as well.The study is expected to help the BMC identify existing problems with traffic management at each of these junctions and draw up a resolution for these problems. The data will be used to prepare an adaptive real-time system, with construction designs for footpaths, road width, street lights, manholes, traffic management and pedestrian movement management systems. The consultant will also prepare a traffic regulation design that will include recommendations for all traffic regulations which will apply within at least 150 m from the centre of a junction. A synchronised timing plan for the signals will also be prepared.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/bmc-plans-smart-traffic-signals-at-70-junctions-across-12-roads-101639939765490.html
20-12-2021||Mumbai||MVA parties harden stance against Karnataka CM Bommai||MUMBAI/BENGALURU: Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA) parties on Sunday hardened their stand against the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) government in Karnataka over the alleged desecration of Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj’s statue in Bengaluru. While the Shiv Sena protested across Mumbai, with Lok Sabha MP and spokesperson Arvind Sawant asking the BJP to clarify its position, Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) activists performed a ‘milk abhishek’ of the warrior-king’s statues in the state. The Congress has questioned if the BJP will ask Karnataka Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai to quit. Bommai, meanwhile, reiterated that vandals will be dealt with sternly as tensions remain high in Belagavi, a border town over that Maharashtra claims for itself on linguistic grounds. The city has reported several incidents of arson and defacing of statues over what appears to be the reviving of the Kannada-Marathi language and border row between two of India’s most industrialised states. “Our government will not tolerate any acts of violence,” Bommai said on Sunday. “Vandals would be dealt with sternly. We have arrested 27 persons in Belagavi and three in Bengaluru in connection with cases of vandalising the statues of Shivaji and Sangolli Rayanna.” The statements came after some protesters went on the rampage in Belagavi on Friday night, leading to clashes with the police. In Maharashtra, Shiv Sena activists forced hotels and other establishments owned by Kannadigas to shut down in neighbouring Kolhapur. MVA parties attacked the Karnataka government for what they called its “unjust handling of the protests by Marathi speakers in Belagavi” and other parts of the state’s border with Maharashtra; groups that are seeking the inclusion of the region in Maharashtra due to their linguistic majority. The BJP claimed that one of those arrested for the desecration is a Congress worker. Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray on Saturday had sought the intervention of Prime Minister Narendra Modi. Shiv Sena MP Arvind Sawant, who led a protest in Mumbai’s Lalbaug area on Sunday, said, “During the 2014 elections, the BJP had coined a slogan seeking votes in the name of Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj. But the statue was desecrated in a state ruled by them and their chief minister called it a trivial incident. This shows their attitude. The BJP just wants to use Shivaji Maharaj for their politics. Immediate action must be taken against those responsible for this incident.” Sawant also referred to Modi invoking Shivaji Maharaj while inaugurating the Kashi Vishweshwar corridor last week. Sawant said Kannadigas in Maharashtra were living happily and should tell their brethren in Karnataka that that they should not perpetrate any injustice against Marathi speakers. “They (Kannadigas in Maharashtra) must condemn the atrocities against Maharashtrians in Karnataka… they must remember what happened in 1969 (when the Shiv Sena rioted in Mumbai over the Belagavi issue),” he said. State minister and NCP spokesperson Nawab Malik said that the “hatred of Marathi and the hatred of Maharashtrians in Karnataka had morphed into a hatred of (Shivaji) Maharaj,” and that this caused the incident. He said he condemned Bommai’s attempts to “trivialise the issue” and called for “a stop to the injustice against the Marathi-speakers in Belagavi and other border areas.” On Saturday, leader of opposition and former chief minister Devendra Fadnavis of the BJP had tweeted that Shivaji Maharaj was an icon not just for Maharashtra, but India as well, and condemned the incident. He also referred to how Bommai had also condemned the desecration, and that some of those allegedly involved in the case had been arrested by the police. Prohibitory orders are in place in Belagavi after members of what is believed to be a pro-Marathi group defaced the statue of Sangolli Rayanna, a celebrated figure and general of Rani Chennamma of Kittur, who had taken on the British East India Company in 1824 over attempts to take control of her kingdom under the doctrine of lapse. Rayanna is also a figurehead of the influential Kuruba community in Karnataka, which counts former chief minister Siddaramaiah and incumbent cabinet minister KS Eshwarappa as its members. “Shivaji Maharaj, Kitturu Rani Chennamma and Sangolli Rayanna are great patriots. They should be respected,” Bommai said. “Nobody should indulge in spreading false news and incite people. The incidents are being propagated in different shades to mislead the people. This is far from the truth. I have immense respect and pride for the patriots. People should not get swayed by rumours.” Pro-Kannada groups had blackened the face of Deepal Dalwi, the president of the separatist Maharashtra Ekikaran Samithi (MES), on December 13 at the start of the winter session of the Karnataka legislature in Belagavi as a show of strength and protest against holding the legislature session in a region which the Samithi considers should rightly be a part of Maharashtra. Several areas of erstwhile Mumbai-Karnataka, now renamed as Kittur Karnataka, are part of the regions that were included into the southern state in the 1956 reorganisation of states. While Karnataka celebrates Kannada Rajyotsava on November 1, the MES observes it a black day as they claim to have been forcibly separated from their parent state 66 years ago during the reorganisation exercise. In 2012, the Karnataka government inaugurated in Belagavi the Suvarana Vidhana Soudha, a replica of the Vidhana Soudha in Bengaluru, where it holds the winter session of the state legislature to further thwart any claims of territory by the neighbouring state. However, the region still has Marathi-speaking residents, who continue to raise the inclusion of Belagavi and surrounding regions into Maharashtra and often clash with pro-Kannada organisations in the border district. Araga Jnanendra, Karnataka’s home minister, said all precautions have been taken in Belagavi to prevent any untoward incidents. He said the home department was in touch with the police over the incidents in Belagavi and Bengaluru. “I have asked for all necessary action to be taken to maintain peace and order,” Jnanendra said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mva-parties-harden-stance-against-karnataka-cm-bommai-101639939527868.html
20-12-2021||Mumbai||Cause of concern: Ragging incidents go up in 2021||Mumbai: Cases of ragging on campus have been a matter of concern in higher education institutes for years now and while the pandemic brought such cases in control last year after colleges were pushed online, 2021 witnessed double the number of cases compared to 2020. Experts have highlighted that while the total complaints registered this year is still only 50% of what was registered before the pandemic, the fact that maximum of these cases are of online harassment makes this a bigger problem. According to statistics revealed by UGC’s www.antiragging.in as well as the Aman Satya Kachroo Trust—reachable through the national anti-ragging helpline number 1800-180-5522—a total of 511 cases were registered across the country this year compared to 219 registered in 2020. The cases reported in 2019 and 2018 were 1,070 and 1,016 respectively. “There was a case in the college where a male student was passing unsolicited comments against a female classmate, either during class or on WhatsApp groups, and this happened more than once. The female student brought this to our notice and we immediately took this matter to the institute’s anti-ragging cell that resolved the matter,” said the principal of a suburban college. The male student was not allowed to appear for his end of semester exams. After the initial days of lockdown, colleges first reopened for virtual classes in July-August 2020. Several colleges in the city as well as state received complaints of online harassment and while in some cases it became difficult to find the perpetrator, strict action was taken against the perpetrators in several cases. Mumbai’s St Xavier’s College had suspended three of their students for sharing the login ID and password of their lecture with outsiders, who in turn joined the class and disrupted the lecture. Similarly, four female students of the Narsee Monjee Institute of Management Studies (NMIMS) reported harassment at the hands of exam proctors who were reported to have passed comments about the way these students looked during the exam and sent messages to these students’ personal mobile numbers. All four proctors were fired and a case of sexual harassment was registered against all four perpetrators. While most higher education institutes have been conducting lectures online for the past 20 months, medical institutes had started in-person classes earlier this year, which has accounted for maximum complaints of ragging once again this year. As per information shared by the UGC, 181 of the total cases of ragging reported this year came from medical colleges alone. “Before the pandemic, ragging was always prevalent in residential institutes, majorly in the medical and engineering institutes while cyber bullying would be considered online ragging. With classes going online, more cases are being reported from several colleges and sadly the line between ragging and sexual harassment is diminishing,” said Meera Kaura Patel, advocate, Supreme Court and Honorary Legal Head, Society Against Violence in Education (SAVE), a non-profit organisation focusing exclusively on protection of lives and dignity of students in education institutes. Recently, a college in Mumbai registered a case with their anti-ragging cell when a student was accused of sharing obscene drawings in the middle of a class presentation. While no First Information Report (FIR) was lodged, the perpetrator was suspended. “The anti-ragging regulations have been crafted in a way where the primary responsibility to prevent such cases falls on the head of the institute, and most education institutes end up keeping the case covered in a bid to save their own reputation. This has, more often than not, led to lenient punishment against perpetrators,” added Patel. She said in some cases, victims have also been coaxed to drop their charges. “Need of the hour is for state governments to make ragging a cognisable offense and as the same time, for colleges to ensure violence free education to students. Only then can ragging be solved.” 
20-12-2021||Lucknow||Lucknow: CBSE to add new disciplines under skill education||Lucknow Joint secretary of skill education department, Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE), RP Singh, on Sunday said that the CBSE was aiming to introduce more disciplines like photography and digital printing under the skill education as part of the New Education policy (NEP), to help students find jobs. Singh was speaking at the Innovations and Leaders Conclave organised by the Maharishi University of Information Technology in Lucknow. He said, “School principals may send their proposals and get their teachers trained for the new subject modules. The school heads may publicise it among students and teachers by tracking them on CBSE website for further details.” Singh exuded confidence that skill education would act as game changer and the country would benefit from the skilled man power. Vishnu Kant Pandey, additional director secondary education, UP, said, “Covid pandemic has increased the burden of teachers as well as school principals. They are required to teach in hybrid mode which is very difficult.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/lucknow-cbse-to-add-new-disciplines-under-skill-education-101639939163069.html
20-12-2021||Noida||Police hold meet with senior residents in Noida, assure them ‘full support’||The Noida police organised a meeting with nearly 40 senior residents of the city under the ‘Savera Yojana’ — an initiative launched by the Uttar Pradesh police in 2019, with an aim to provide the elderly people with emotional support and also help them with their daily needs — in Sector 11 on Saturday, said officials on Sunday. It was organised following the directions of the police commissioner of Gautam Budh Nagar, Alok Singh, they added.“We met nearly 40 senior residents of the city at a community hall in Noida Sector 11 on Saturday and asked about their well-being. We exchanged cellphone numbers, and assured them full support... A few of them told us that they often feel lonely, so we have directed the local police check post in-charge, Manoj Kumar, to visit them from time to time. We will also send volunteers to help them in buying medicines, vegetables, food items among others,” said Rajneesh Verma, assistant commissioner of police (ACP), Noida.The police queried about the well-being of the elderly people, and issues faced by them. The Noida police has been taking measures like setting up barricades and improving patrolling in the areas among others, to improve the safety of the senior residents of the city, the officials added.The police team also educated the attendees about cyber fraud . “We asked them not to share their personal information with unknown callers... they may get cheated by them... We had a fruitful meeting, and we will work on the feedback and take required measures to improve their lifestyle,” Verma said.Anjana Bhagi, general secretary of Sector 11 residents’ welfare association, said that there are nearly 500 houses in the area, and the elderly people live in at least 100 of these houses. “They face different problems... loneliness, psychological issues among others. During the meeting, they had told the police that heavy vehicles ply on the roads, which create a nuisance. So, police put up barricades and stopped entry of heavy vehicles there from Sunday, and also increased their presence across the sector,” Bhagi said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/police-hold-meet-with-senior-residents-in-noida-assure-them-full-support-101639939103912.html
20-12-2021||Noida||Two men arrested in road rage case in Noida Sector 119, main suspect absconding||The police on Saturday night arrested two people in connection with an incident of road rage case in Noida’s Sector 119.The suspects were Amit Kumar (26) and his brother Vikas Kumar (28) — both residents of Parthala village in Noida. Vivek Trivedi, station house officer (SHO), Phase 3 police station, said that a 32-year-old woman, a resident of Eldeco Aamantran Noida Sector 119, was going to her office in her car on Saturday morning. “The woman got into a heated argument with a 62-year-old man, Devendra Kumar, who collided his motorcycle with the woman’s car near The Millennium School in Sector 119,” Trivedi said. The woman, in her complaint, said that Devendra abused and slapped her during the spar, and also called the arrested suspects (Devendra’s sons) — Amit and Vikas — to reach the spot. On calling, the woman’s husband also reached the spot along with a friend (details not provided by the police).“Devendra and his two sons to reach the spot. The Kumars hit the friend of the victim’s husband in the head with a rod, and he received a fracture in his head. He was admitted to a nearby private hospital and is undergoing treatment,” the victim said, adding that the three suspects escaped after committing the crime. A case was registered against the suspects under Indian Penal Code (IPC) sections 279 (rash driving), 308 (attempt to commit culpable homicide), 354 (assault of criminal force to woman with intent to outrage her modesty), 504 (intentional insult) and 506 (criminal intimidation) at the Phase 3 police station on Saturday.“We launched a search and arrested the Kumar brothers — Amit and Vikas — from Parthala village. They were produced before a court and sent to judicial custody on Saturday. We are trying to nab Devendra, who is absconding,” SHO Trivedi said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/two-men-arrested-in-road-rage-case-in-noida-sector-119-main-suspect-absconding-101639939045332.html
20-12-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai emerges state’s most vaccine-efficient city||MUMBAI: The city tops the state in vaccine use efficiency with -6.33% wastage, according to data released by the Maharashtra health department to Hindustan Times under the Right to Information (RTI) Act. The state’s capital is followed by Ratnagiri (-4.29%), Palghar (-4.03%), Akola (-3.87%) and Wardha (-3.81%). The data is as of December 14, 2021, and pertains to Covishield, which accounts for 89% of the total doses administered. Negative wastage implies that vaccination centres managed to inoculate more than the expected number of beneficiaries per vial, a state health department official said. Vaccines doses have to be administered within a certain time limit after a vial is opened, or else it loses its potency. Manufacturers anticipate this, and they usually add more doses per vial. However, if there are not enough people to be inoculated within that time limit the vial is disposed of, and the vaccine is considered as wasted. Vaccine wastage can also occur due to heat and non-utilisation beyond the expiry date. Earlier this year, in the middle of the second wave of Covid-19, the Central government had set a target of reducing wastage to less than 1%. Districts in the state that exceeded the 1% wastage target include Gadchiroli (2.04%), Pune (1.94%) and Yavatmal (1.21%). Mumbai also tops in the number of doses administered so far, accounting for 15.03% of the state’s total. Until Sunday evening, Mumbai had administered 17,413,662 doses, including inoculating 9,839,928 people for their first doses and 7,573,734 citizens for their second doses. Maharashtra’s eligible population for the vaccine is 92,365,46. According to Suresh Kakani, additional commissioner (health), BMC, “We ensured that at least 10 people are at the booth while opening a new vial meant for 10 doses. Towards the end of the daily session, booths coordinate among themselves to ensure adequate number of beneficiaries is available. By using additional doses in the vial, we ensured more people are inoculated. The government expects wastage of between 1% and 2% wastage, but with the efficient use of the doses, we could achieve this feat. We have so far inoculated at least 100,000 more than expected.” Kakani said BMC’s strategy to exhaust the stock rather than staggering its use during the shortage earlier this year helped them to use the inventory effectively and maintain high rate of vaccination. Until Sunday evening, the state had administered 127,774,101 doses, of which 78,792,696 were first doses and 48,941,239 were the second dose. As on Saturday, nearly 12.69 million or about 13.88% of 91.44 million eligible people had not taken even the first dose. The state’s percentage of the first dose is 72.3%, with 21 districts averaging below this and nine districts below 55%, as per a health department presentation on December 15. Fully vaccinated people amount to 32.97% of the eligible population. As many as 23 districts have not achieved this figure. A health department official said, “We have more than five million unused doses vaccines in the state. People are not coming forward for vaccination. The fear of a potential third wave, and the rising threat of the Omicron variant has helped us plug this gap a bit in the last two months.” He said the rural response to vaccination is poor on account of significantly fewer cases in the last few months and also because of strongly held beliefs in certain communities. We are taking due step to overcome them.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-emerges-state-s-most-vaccine-efficient-city-101639938987129.html
20-12-2021||Gurugram||Three held with goods stolen from factory in Manesar||Three men were arrested on Saturday for allegedly stealing goods and heavy motors from a factory in Manesar. Police said they have recovered some stolen goods worth ₹4 lakh from the suspects, one of whom worked at the factory. The suspects were identified as Praveen Kumar from Delhi, Chotu Kumar, a native of Bihar, and Vijaypal alias Pradeep, a native of Uttar Pradesh, police said, adding that Vijaypal worked at the factory which manufactures auto parts. “The burglary took place on the intervening night of December 8 and 9. The three broke into the factory and made off with iron channels, copper cables, and heavy Japanese motors of 60 horsepower, among other items,” said Preet Pal Sangwan, assistant commissioner of police (crime). Police said the suspects were identified with the help of CCTV footage from the cameras installed at the entrance and the halls. “Vijaypal is an employee of the company and he can be seen in the footage. When he did not turn up for work the next day, the company management informed the IMT Manesar police. Subsequently, raids were conducted and the suspects were arrested from different parts of the city,” said Sangwan. Police have also recovered two knives from the possession of the suspects. Sangwan said the suspects who had been committing thefts for the past eight months used to sell the stolen items to scrap dealers. “One of the scrap dealers asked the suspects for three days’ time to get the value of motors evaluated. He has a criminal history and has been booked in the past too. He is at large and raids are being conducted to arrest him,” said Sangwan. The suspects were produced before a magistrate who sent them to two-day police remand, said police.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/gurugram-three-held-with-goods-stolen-from-factory-in-manesar-101639938925009.html
20-12-2021||Noida||Noida authority to operate all parking facilities digitally by December-end||The Noida authority will operate all the car parking facilities in the city, including the multi-level car parking space, through a mobile application (yet to be named) to be launched by the end of December, said officials on Sunday.The authority wants to ensure transparency, and make the parking process easy for the users. After the app is operational, people will be able to book parking spaces through digital payment, which will save their time, according to the officials.“We are likely to start operations through the app at all major parking facilities in the city by December-end. We are in the final stage of launching the app. Once the app is operational, parking services will completely become digital and it will help in maintaining transparency,” said SP Singh, deputy general manager of Noida authority, who also heads the Noida traffic cell.Vehicle parking spaces at sectors 18 and 38A, and Film City, and underground parking facilities at sectors 1, 3 and 5 come under the Noida authority, along with at least 60 parking sites — run by different private contractors — across the city.Many times, people complain that parking attendants misbehave with them, and overcharge for the space. “When the app is operational, people would not face such issues. They can easily get the service through the app,” said Singh.The Noida authority will also open an escrow account, connected with the app, so that the collected revenue goes into that account and information about it is being saved from each parking site.The parking facility at Noida Film City has a capacity of accommodating 1,400 vehicles, and sectors 38A (7,000), 1 (534), 3 (565), and 5 (262). The remaining ones in the city are surface parking facilities.“The Noida authority keeps talking about transparency and users’ ease, but nothing like that has happened so far. We hope this service starts at the earliest, without a delay... Many private contractors for the service overcharge, and at times their behavior is also not appropriate,” said Kummu Joshi Bhatnagar, a social activist from Noida Sector 77.
20-12-2021||Noida||Only 23% of foreign returnees from ‘at-risk’ nations tested for Covid in Noida||Despite the threat of the Omicron variant of Covid-19 turning into a full-scale outbreak looming large, the Gautam Budh Nagar health department has tested just 23% of the travellers arriving from ‘at-risk’ nations. A total of 4,000 international travellers have been notified to the district authorities, of whom 1,700 people have arrived from ‘at risk’ countries. Of them, just about 400 travellers have been tested for Covid-19 . Overall, around 2,500 Covid tests are being conducted in the district daily, which is less than half the target of 5,500 tests mandated by the state. Officials said around 1,200 to 1,400 rapid antigen tests (RAT) and a same number of RT-PCR tests are being conducted every day. District officials said that many a times, the travellers provide wrong information, making it difficult for the teams to track the travellers.Often the contact details are either incorrect or not reachable and addresses given are also not correct. “It is not easy to track travellers if the contact details are not right. Besides, calling international numbers is also a time taking process,” said Dr Sunil Sharma, chief medical officer, Gautam Budh Nagar. District officials said no other international traveller has tested positive for Covid-19 apart from a couple and their five-year-old son , who returned from United Kingdom, and a woman and her five-year-old daughter, who came from Singapore. Health officials said the samples of the two adult travellers from UK were sent to the Institute of Liver and Biliary Sciences (ILBS) for genome sequencing and the reports showed that the couple tested negative for the Omicron variant. The samples of the couple’s son and the mother-daughter duo from Singapore were sent to the National Centre for Disease Control and the results of the genome sequencing are still awaited. Three new Covid cases in Noida Three fresh Covid-19 cases, all of whom are contacts of previously infected Covid patients, were reported in Noida on Sunday, taking the tally of active cases to 29. With reports of an Omicron infected elderly couple coming from Ghazia[bad, the health department has asked private hospitals to be ready if there is a surge in infections.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/only-23-of-foreign-returnees-from-at-risk-nations-tested-for-covid-in-noida-101639938863730.html
20-12-2021||Delhi||Man held for Rohini court blast tried to kill self: Cops||The scientist working with the Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO) who was arrested for planning and executing the blast in the Rohini court allegedly tried to take his life by consuming handwash liquid while in custody on Saturday, the police said on Sunday.The man is stable and is being treated at the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS).A senior police officer said the suspect, Bharat Bhushan Kataria, was being questioned by the Special Cell unit at its office on Friday and was arrested on the same day. He has been in custody at the office since then. According to the police, the suspect went to the washroom on Saturday night and allegedly consumed liquid handwash inside. He was found lying unconscious the police said. He was then taken to Baba Saheb Ambedkar hospital, from where he was referred to AIIMS. “When police personnel went to check on him at the hospital, he said he didn’t consume anything out of the ordinary. But doctors said he drank handwash liquid,” a police officer said.“A senior doctor will check on him on Monday. He is expected to be discharged and will be interrogated soon,” the officer added.The 47-year-old scientist was arrested for triggering a bomb in a Rohini court on December 9.Kataria wanted to kill his former neighbour Amit Vashisht, a lawyer with whom he was locked in “protracted legal battles” for nearly a decade, police said. The scientist planned the bombing with an improvised explosive device (IED) for nearly a month, they said.The senior officer added that Kataria was evading questioning.“He is misleading and manipulating the investigating team by evading questioning. He is uncooperative and using all the studied the system to avoid interrogation,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/rohini-court-blast-accused-scientist-attempts-suicide-101639938743745.html
20-12-2021||Chandigarh||Paddy sale above fixed yield: 30K farmer accounts under lens in Punjab||Around 30,000 farmers’ accounts in Punjab are under the scanner of the food and civil supplies for purportedly booking paddy for sale to the state’s procurement agencies higher than the average per acre yield of 34 quintal fixed by the department. The kharif (paddy) procurement ended on November 30, and after that the state’s four procurement agencies — Pungrain, Punsup, Markfed and warehousing corporation — besides the food department and Mandi board, which manages the grain market operations, are busy settling the accounts. For the first time in the state, paddy stocks were procured by fixing the per acre yield, as the Centre has made it mandatory to link crop payment with land records. Initially, there were 5.2 lakh accounts of 9 lakh farmers under the scanner, and even though most have been settled, there are still 30,000 accounts that show sale of paddy more than the average. The ceiling was fixed to check bogus billing and to end the malpractice of mixing rice and paddy of the previous crop seasons to the fresh crop. The crops are mixed to earn on the difference of price at which the crop of past seasons is procured and the higher minimum support price (MSP) offered in the prevailing season. The practice is adopted by a section of arhtiyas (commission agents) by manipulating the farmers’ accounts. “We have made red entries on all farmers’ accounts that show sale of crop more than the average, and are in the process of verifying their antecedents. The farmers and arhtiyas found guilty of selling more than the average yield will face action. These accounts could even be frozen or a penalty could be imposed,” said state food and civil supplies minister Bharat Bhushan Ashu. According to a senior official of the state department, it’s a tedious process to match purchase from each farmer’s account with land tilled by them. “This being the first season, we are facing many challenges to reconcile the records. We have formed committees at district level, with members of procurement agencies and the Mandi board, to verify the purchase,” said the official, who didn’t wish to be named. In the recent kharif season, 188 lakh tonne of paddy was procured by government agencies, against an all-time high of 203 lakh tonne in the previous season, for which paddy from outside the state and bogus billing were alleged to be the main contributors. Every year, the food department and procurement agencies face an uphill task to check the flow of old paddy from other states. This year, amid heightened vigil, a many trucks were seized at the state borders, or illegal stocks were found at godowns of rice shelling mills during physical verification. ‘Linking Aadhaar to land records a solution’The food department and Mandi board finds it impractical to device a method to verify the land owned by a farmer with the payment portal. “The only solution is connecting the land record to Aadhaar card, so that even if farmers have more than one farm in the state, all could get a unique ID by connecting it to the Aadhaar number of the owners,” suggested a Mandi board official, on the condition of anonymity. The Centre’s ministry of food and public distribution is pushing Punjab to implement the Aadhaar linking, but the process is facing delays. There are at least 45 lakh “khewat” (account) numbers in the name of 8.5 lakh farmers. “We have a plan to do the Aadhaar linking, but let’s see how and when it will be implemented,” said an officer of the food procurement agency. 
20-12-2021||Other||Gurugram: MCG panel to probe hiring of agency for C&D waste||The Municipal Corporation of Gurugram (MCG) has constituted a four-member committee to probe into the alleged irregularities in the hiring of a private contractor in February 2019 to collect and transport construction and demolition (C&D) waste as well as payments made to the agency for the work during the contract period, among others. The committee was formed by MCG commissioner Mukesh Kumar Ahuja on December 14 following directions from the directorate of urban local bodies (ULB), Haryana.The committee has an MCG joint commissioner, chief engineer, chief account officer, and district attorney as its members.As per Ahuja’s order, a copy of which is with HT, the committee has to investigate three key points: If the MCG had obtained approval from the Haryana government, as the competent authority, before awarding the contract to the private agency; if the agency performed its duties as per the three-year agreement signed with the MCG; and alleged irregularities in making payments to the contractor.Besides, the committee has to ascertain the reasons behind C&D waste lying scattered across the city other than the designated sites, according to the order. “References have been made by ULB, and MoEF, and some other issues are pending pertaining to payments to the bills submitted by (private contractor)... to the MCG and the C&D waste lying scattered at various locations in the MCG limits. It is hereby ordered detailed investigation... The committee shall examine all aspects of the matter and submit a detailed report within 10 days,” Ahuja’s office order read.According to the order, the MCG executive engineer for Swachh Bharat Mission has been directed to provide necessary documents and records to the committee.The ULB, in its October 6 order to Ahuja, had stated that Raman Sharma, an RTI activist and resident of Malibu Towne, has alleged that the then MCG commissioner and other civic body officials had committed a “large scale systematic and organised corruption of ₹50 crore” on the collection, transportation, and dumping of C&D waste during the “lockdown and Covid health emergency period,” and directed Ahuja to look into the matter and take the necessary action as per rule.Ahuja’s 52-page order regarding the constitution of the committee includes the ULB’s order sent to him on October 6, the Malibu Towne resident’s complaints, as well as copies of bills submitted by the contractor and the payments made by the MCG to it.Some of the important points raised by complainant Sharma indicate that as per the minutes of the meeting, chaired by the then MCG commissioner on February 6, 2020, he directed MCG officials to not enter any details or bills related to C&D work in the measurement book and that only bills/ invoices submitted by the private firm will be sufficient for payment purpose after due verification. Another point raised by the complainant was that bills were approved and payments were made to the contractor accordingly, within two days after submission.
20-12-2021||Delhi||Palwal: Muslim man beaten to death, family alleges hate crime||A 22-year-old Muslim man was allegedly beaten to death by his three friends over stealing a mobile phone of one of them in Palwal on December 15, even as the victim’s family have alleged that it was a communal hate crime, police said on Sunday.The Palwal police had registered a case of death in an accident soon after the matter was reported to them, but later added charges under section of murder after the post-mortem examination showed severe injury marks, and after a video was posted on the social media that showed the three suspects beating the man.All three suspects who the police identified as as Aakash alias Diljale, Vishal (who goes by single name), and Kalua -- all residents of Rasoolpur village in Palwal -- have been arrested, police said. They added that all suspects have been remanded into judicial custody.Ram Chandar Jakhar, station house officer (SHO) of Chand Hut police station in Palwal, said on December 15, they received information that a man, Rahul Khan, has died in accident. “We registered a case under sections 279 (rash driving), and 304A (causing death by negligence) of Indian Penal Code. But, the post-mortem report revealed assault injuries, and the victim’s family approached us with a purported video of the incident. Following this, we converted it into a murder case, and started conducting raids to arrest suspects,” he said.Jakhar said they have also recovered the mobile phone on which the purported video was shot. “Aakash had shot video and shared it on social media to prove that he was not involved in the case . He is apparently heard in the video, saying ‘Mat maro isko, jane do’(Don’t hit him, let him go). He thought it will help him escape the blame,” the SHO said.Khan, a resident of Rasoolpur, nearly 16 kilometres from the Palwal city, worked as a daily wage labourer, his family members said. His wife, Saina, said Khan went to attend a wedding function with three of his friends on December 14. “Kalua called us around 6pm that Rahul has met with an accident near Nangal Road canal. An unidentified vehicle hit him, and fled. He said they were taking him to a hospital and asked us to reach there,” she said.Saina said, before breathing his last in the hospital on December 15, Khan told her that five people, including Kalua, beat him with rods. She said they believed Kalua registered a case of accident to hide the crime. “On December 15, we received a video , in which Rahul can be seen pleading and being beaten mercilessly. The suspects were threatening him, and saying ‘Hum Hindu Hain Hindu, Tu Mulla Hai Mulla’ (We are Hindus, and you are a Muslim), she alleged.SHO Jakhar said they were yet to confirm it was a communal angle to the crime. “We are investigating the case and the mobile phone has also been seized. We will sent it to the (forensic) lab. If it was a hate crime, we will add charges under the relevant sections of the law,” he said.Police said Aakash, one of the suspects, has told them that he had shot the video, but did not assault Khan. “Kalua was agitated as Rahul had stolen his mobile phone, after drinking together at the wedding function. Kalua was enraged over this, and encouraged his friends to assault Rahul. They did not realise that he was severely injured and could die,” Jakhar said, quoting what Aakash said during the interrogation.Razia, the sister of victim, alleged that her father retired from Indian Railways in April this year. She alleged that the suspects were pressuring Khan to give money to them from the retirement funds of his father. “They (the suspects) are drug addicts, and were demanding money from my brother. Last month, my brother gave them ₹2,000, but they were demanding ₹5,000 more,” she said.The family claimed that Khan could never steal anything, and the suspects were cooking up the story to misleaded the police.Chhedi Khan, the father of the deceased, said all the suspects were his son’s friends. “I moved to this village after my retirement. was posted in Ballabhgarh. My son hardly worked. Despite my repeated attempts, he did not give up their company,” he said.
20-12-2021||Delhi||In digital era, coding a key skill for country’s students||With children getting acquainted with computers and electronic devices at an early age, educators are increasingly laying emphasis on inculcating computational thinking among children still in school. Often compared with learning a foreign language, students are being introduced to coding at a relatively younger age, driven by the idea that it’s easier to acquire logical thinking skills while they are still young and learning proactively. Coding can foster creativity and curiosity as it encourages students to understand the “how” and “why” behind the functioning of technology and its products, educators said. It drives computational thinking and encourages students to give shape to their ideas. Introducing students to coding while they are in school can pique their curiosity and aid the development of their analytical skills early on. Group coding projects such as HT Code-A-Thon also encourage teamwork and allow students to learn from each other. They can be great tools to encourage students to think of creative solutions to problems.To that end, Hindustan Times has kicked off the second edition of India’s biggest coding Olympiad, Hindustan Times Code-A-Thon. Launched on August 31, Code-A-Thon provides an opportunity to students in classes 4 to 9 to learn to code and boost algorithmic thinking, mathematical and computing skills, and analytical thinking to prepare them for careers of tomorrow in science and technology. The olympiad intends to highlight the importance of coding for the younger generation by helping them to improve their analytical reasoning, logical thinking, and problem-solving skills. HT Code-A-Thon will offer a platform to students to pick up the basics of coding, and showcase their code writing skills at a national level. The programme is divided into three rounds. The learning round is supposed to continue till the first week of January This will be followed by the qualifier round, which will take place in the second week of January and open the competition. The final, which holds the promise of a battle between whiz kids, is scheduled for the third week of January. The virtual felicitation ceremony will take place on January 20. Those interested to sign up for Code-A-Thon can visit https://htschool.hindustantimes.com/code-a-thon or scan the QR code below. After registering, participants can access their age-appropriate modules and course material. Students will be divided into three cohorts — classes 4 and 5 (app development), classes 6 to 8 (web development with HTML / CSS/ JavaScript), and classes 8 and 9 (dame development with Python). The top 100 students from each cohort will compete in the finale. Three winners from each cohort will be the winners of the HT Codeathon. All participants will receive mentorship from technical experts and certificates. Vinayak Garg, commissioner, Navodaya Vidyalaya Samiti (an autonomous body under the union ministry of education), said the programme will help students to develop algorithmic thinking, which will enable them to approach various challenges and problems using logic and computational thinking. “Vigyan Jyoti Programme, a flagship initiative of the department of science and technology, is running successfully in 100 Jawahar Navodaya Vidyalayas. The program aims to increase the representation of women in STEM and encourages and empowers meritorious girls of Class 9 to Class 12 to pursue STEM courses. Code-A-Thon, conducted by IBM in collaboration with Hindustan Times for Vigyan Jyoti Students will help in developing algorithmic thinking among students which will enable them to understand how to approach various challenges and problems using logic and computational thinking. Learning Programming language at school level will prepare our girl students for future career prospects in today’s world of hyper technology,” said Garg. For the coding Olympiad, HT has partnered with IBM and SpeedLabs, an AI-based practice and learning platform that boosts foundational concept-based learning. The competition was recently recognized as the “Best in South Asia” in the Global Media Awards hosted by the International News Media Association (INMA), which also had entrants such as The New York Times and The Wall Street Journal vying for the top spot. In December last year, more than two months after its launch, four winners and eight runners-up from two zones were chosen as winners of HT Code-A-Thon 2020. The event saw 10,000 schools and over 61,000 registrations. Around 400 finalists competed with each other by participating in tests..||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/ht-launches-2nd-edition-of-code-a-thon-to-help-students-learn-coding-101639938504012.html
20-12-2021||Delhi||Trees and robots in NCRPB plan to combat pollution||The National Capital Region Planning Board (NCRPB) in its draft Regional Plan-2041 for NCR envisages an environment plan that includes a mixture of greenery and technology to combat pollution in the region.The plan that has been put in the public domain seeking suggestions and objections suggests creating green corridors, green barriers along highways and a dense biodiversity park network, along with implementing technologies such as smog towers and floating water drones/robots to collect garbage and waste from the river to check rising pollution in the region.“Pollution mitigation technologies like smog towers, smog guns should be set up. Delhi has already initiated installing smog towers in 2020 and other urban areas in NCR should follow the same,” says the draft plan.The plan states each NCR district will have to mandatorily establish a continuous automatic weather monitoring station by 2024, with air quality monitoring equipments to be set up in each urban ward and village in a time-bound manner.“Green corridors/tree barriers should be developed wherever possible along roads to act as buffer and to reduce air pollution and noise pollution impacts. All highways shall have noise barriers/ tree corridors, especially when they are passing through or close to residential areas, hospitals, old age homes, educational institutions, courts, religious places and appropriate dense plantation should be done in such areas along roads,” the plan states.Delhi has seven existing biodiversity parks, and the plan envisage development of similar parks across NCR. It states that each NCR state should have at least one botanical garden and a zoo in each city and regional centres by 2030.To clean rivers in the region, it also asks for a revival and rejuvenation action plan to be prepared by the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) by 2022, which will ensure zero discharge of untreated sewage into rivers such as Yamuna, Hindon and Kali. It also calls for exploration of possibilities to revive the old Sahibi river, which would feed the Najafgarh lake.Use of technology has been suggested to trap waste from flowing into the rivers. “Autonomous drone technologies like waste-sharks/aqua drones which work similar to vacuum cleaners should be adopted by NCR states for cleaning of rivers, channels and water bodies to help in reducing water pollution,” says the plan.Dipankar Saha, former head of CPCB’s air laboratory, said the plan’s focus should be more on creating sufficient buffer zones for the region, an exercise which can commence from identifying and re-designing the correct land-use pattern. “We have to preserve our existing buffers and add more, wherever possible. Reliance on technology need not be as much as we look at creating more green pockets to provide fresh air. Technologies can only be adopted if there is some scientific backing,” he said, asking for more research before implementing air purifiers and smog towers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/ncrplanning-board-suggests-trees-and-robots-to-combat-air-pollution-101639938205480.html
20-12-2021||Delhi||Amit Shah likely to lift curtains on city’s 2nd ‘waste-to-art’ park this Friday||Work on the Bharat Darshan Park in Punjabi Bagh has been completed and is likely to be inaugurated by Union home minister Amit Shah later this week, said officials of the South Delhi Municipal Corporation (SDMC).This will be the second waste-to-art park in Delhi where replicas of monuments have been set up using scrap material. Officials said that the facility uses 350 tonnes of scrap to recreate 17 Indian monuments over 8.5 acres.Shah is likely to inaugurate the park on December 24.The park has been built for around Rs12 crore over the past two years, said a senior municipal official said.The first such installation in Sarai Kale Khan, called the Waste-To-Wonder Park, was thrown open to the public in 2019.The Bharat Darshan Park will feature replicas of monuments like the Konark temple (in Odisha), Qutub Minar, Taj Mahal (Agra, Uttar Pradesh), Sanchi Stupa (Madhya Pradesh) and Nalanda University (Bihar).Meanwhile on Sunday the Bharatiya Janata Party’s West Delhi MP Parvesh Singh Sahib and south Delhi mayor Mukesh Suryan inspected preparations at the park.“The construction of the park has seen some delays due to the pandemic, but all the work has been completed. The park is based on the concept of ‘waste-to-wealth’ where replicas of historical monuments are made. ‘Unity in Diversity’ is the theme of the park, where diversified culture and rich heritages of India is reflected through monuments. Like Waste to Wonder Park, Bharat Darshan Park will also become a popular tourist spot of Delhi,” Suryan remarked.Work on the park began in January 2020, but, like most infrastructure projects in the city, has been interrupted several times owing to the pandemic.SDMC commissioner Gyanesh Bharti said “These monuments have been constructed with waste material like old vehicles, fans, iron rods, nuts and bolts that were left at SDMC’s yards and stores.”The park will be powered by solar panels, said officials aware of the matter.The park also hosts a 1.5-km walking track, a specified children’s zone, and an amphitheatre.A separate zone has been earmarked to establish stalls to organise cultural programmes and, food courts. A senior official overseeing the project implementation said that the provision of audio tour and selfie points have been made in the park.The park has also seen controversies even before being opened up for the public. The Golden Temple replica was dismantled in June after objections from the Delhi Sikh Gurdwara Prabandhak Committee (DSGPC). The civic body replaced it with replicas of Char Dham — Badrinath, Jagannath Puri, Dwarkadhish and Rameshwaram — that have been placed at the four corners of the park.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/union-home-minister-amit-shah-to-inaugurate-bharat-darshan-park-101639937904764.html
20-12-2021||Delhi||Govt sets in motion plan to revamp Jama Masjid area||After the redevelopment of Chandni Chowk main road, the Delhi government has decided to give a facelift to the area around the Jama Masjid, and has appointed a consultant for preparing a detailed plan, a senior official aware of the development said.The consultant will also prepare the plan for the second phase of Chandni chowk redevelopment and creation of a heritage corridor between Delhi Gate and Kashmere Gate, the senior government official said.A government spokesperson said, “This will be developed as a heritage area. The scope of work of the consultant involves the development of Jama Masjid area, Netaji Subhash Marg as a heritage corridor, facade improvement and development of some internal roads of Chandni Chowk.”Revamp of Jama masjid surrounding areasThe redevelopment of areas around the Mughal-era mosque was conceived in 2004, but the project has remained on the drawing board. The government now intends to make the densely populated and congested area pedestrian-friendly, free of encroachment and upgrade the existing infrastructure.A senior PWD official, aware of the development, said the previous consultant (Pradeep Sachdeva Design Associates) prepared a detailed project last year report after an extensive survey of the area.PDSA, which carried out the Chandni Chowk redevelopment work, was also working on the Jama Masjid redevelopment project. But after the demise Pradeep Sachdeva, a renowned architect, last year, his firm pulled out of the projects, said a PWD official.“The consultant was appointed in November. We have asked the consultant to prepare the plan in continuation of the unapproved DPR. We have shared the report with them,” said the PWD official.The work to improve the road infrastructure on the Jama Masjid road will be taken up to clear it of any encroachment, make it pedestrian-friendly and take overhead cables underground etc.The PWD official said, “As per the report prepared by the previous consultant, we know the key problem areas such as encroachment, lack of parking, haphazard traffic movement etc. The plan is to streamline traffic movement while creating space for safe pedestrian movement. Currently, we are just focusing on the area outside the precinct. So far, no decision has been taken regarding the redevelopment of the precinct.”Historian Swapna Liddle said while planning the redevelopment of the area, the original design and the current use of the area should be kept in mind. “There are two important aspects: design and the usage. It is very important to see what was the original alignment between the Jama Masjid and the southern Gate of the Red Fort. The spirit of that alignment and the fact that this was an important public space, a cultural hub, should be kept in mind while planning for the area. The other aspect is about its current usage.”Mohammad Imran Khan, 45, who lives in the vicinity of Jama Masjid said drainage facilities in the area along with traffic management were messed up. Khan said roads and sanitation in the area were abysmal, and called for a inclusive, holistic development. Khan, who is also the head of the Meena Bazaar Street Hawkers Association, he said dedicated spaces are reserved for hawkers in any development proposal.“We are not against development but the government should also think about the hawkers here who are working hard to earn a living. We support beautification, but such efforts should not happen at the cost of the people who have their shops and establishments here. The area needs public toilets, sitting arrangements, and drinking water facilities. It is an international mosque but hawkers should also be given dedicated places for work and operations,” said Khan.Abu Sufiyan, a culture revivalist and old Delhi resident, said the development of the area surrounding the Jama Masjid should be done in a manner that allows the local residents to reclaim public spaces for community engagement. “In areas surrounding the Jama Masjid, there is a lot of encroachment by hawkers and shopkeepers in the market. Most of these people are not locals. Due to the lack of hygiene and cleanliness, local residents avoid going into these areas. If the government decides to redevelop these areas, the locals should be given a chance to reclaim the streets as is being done on the Chandni Chowk stretch from Red Fort to Fatehpuri Masjid,” said Sufiyan.He said if the area was developed with necessary public facilities, women and the elderly would be able to step out without challenges. Relocation of the motor market in the vicinity and other establishments that are encroaching on public streets should be regulated for local residents to claim public spaces, said Sufiyan. “Due to encroachments and increasing incidents of pick-pocketing, locals avoid stepping out in the market areas a lot. Chandni Chowk model can be implemented here with the purpose of community engagement,” he said.Chandni Chowk Phase-IIThe government has decided to take up the façade improvement of buildings along the 1.5km-long Chandni Chowk main market stretch and the improvement of six adjoining roads. The six roads are: Nai Sarak, Ballimaran Road, Gali Qasim Jaan, Road Grand, Farash Khana, Lal Kuan Main Road. The consultant for façade restoration was finalized in SeptemberOfficials from Shahjahanabad Redevelopment Corporation (SRDC), the nodal agency for the redevelopment project, had earlier told HT that façade restoration will be done keeping in mind the diverse architectural and heritage value of buildings in Shahjahanabad. “A uniform façade may not go with the heritage character of Shahjahanabad. We will come up with ideas and adopt the best possible practices for the preservation of the area’s heritage,” Garima Gupta, managing director, SRDC, told HT earlier.A senior PWD official said the government plans to develop a 3km-long heritage corridor on Netaji Subhas Marg between Delhi Gate and Kashmere gate. The project will involve streetscaping and dedicated lanes for non-motorised vehicles.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-govt-appoints-consultant-for-revamp-of-jama-masjid-area-101639937665249.html
20-12-2021||Delhi||Delhi Police hike reward for info on illegal guns trade||Last month, a team of Delhi police officers arrested two alleged criminals Shailesh Kumar and Mohammad Hanif, with seven country made pistols, one motorcycle, a machine and equipment used in making firearms. During interrogation, both the accused disclosed that they, along with their associates used to make illegal firearms and sold them in the national capital. In another case, police arrested a man, Sahil alias Vicky, who was involved in a robbery at Geeta Colony with a country made pistol and three live cartridges. In both the cases, the police teams were alerted by informers, mostly locals, who were helping the police in a special operation against the illegal arms. Police handed both a cash reward of ₹10,000. Under a new scheme to encourage people to come forward with information that may help the police bust illegal firearms, the Delhi Police have increased the reward money from Rs1,000-Rs5,000 to ₹10,000-Rs25,000. “In the last five months, over 25 people have been rewarded for information about illegal weapons. Till now, we have been giving ₹1,000 to 5,000 to the informers who shared information about such criminals. But now under the new scheme, they will get at least ₹10,000,” said a senior police officer involved with the operation while speaking on condition of anonymity. The police informer, who helped police arrest Shailesh and Hanif, said, “Many youngsters from our villages started going to Hanif’s house in the late evening and used to return home in the afternoon. A boy, who was my distant cousin, left his college for this vocation. If both of them had not been nabbed, dozens of youngsters from our village might have been trapped in the illegal business of gun making. This is why I thought of informing the police.” The police informer in the second case said the Sahil alias Vicky used to trap gullible youngsters of the village to make easy money. HT is not disclosing the identity of the informers for their safety. Senior police officers said the identity of such informers is kept secret, and their safety is ensured. The Delhi Police has also asking informers to use smartphones and spy cameras, in a bid to receive concrete information. Under the eyes and ears scheme of the police, citizens are encouraged to keep an eye on suspicious and illegal activities around them, and inform the police. Delhi Police commissioner Rakesh Asthana said the new initiative aims to bolster the information flow. “Policing boundaries are defined by law, but it should not mean that there is no scope for innovation and experimentation. The idea is to involve the public in information gathering. It is yielding positive results. Our beat policemen are sensitizing all the stakeholders such as watchmen, security guards, vegetable and fruit vendors, parking attendants, drivers, residents and traders’ welfare associations, so that they can keep their eyes on criminals in their areas and share information with us,” he said. “The identity of the informer will be kept secret. If someone wants to share the information directly with me, it can be sent as text or WhatsApp message, directly on my official number. These informers are paid secretly as secrecy is an important aspect in cracking crime,” Asthana said. Former Delhi Police chief Ajay Raj Sharma there are several citizens who want to help the “system” if their identity is protected. “It can really yield very good results in crackdown against the illegal arms, if the police offer cash rewards as an incentive. They are officially known as confidential human source (CHS), or criminal informants (CI) within the law enforcement world. In our efforts to combat crime, oftentimes we heavily rely upon statements of our secret informers as their communications have proven vital to the detection of criminal activities,” he said. It may be noted that at least 2,000 illegal country made pistols are seized every year in Delhi. The city’s criminals use illegals guns of different types such as country made, automatic and imported ones. In cases of weapons seized from city criminals, Delhi police have in these years pinned the source of country made pistols to illegal factories in places such as Meerut, Muzaffarnagar, Aligarh, Agra, Mathura, Ghaziabad in Uttar Pradesh. Police have also found that pistols were smuggled into Delhi from factories of Dhar, Khargone, Burhanpur, Indore, Gwalior and Sendwa in Madhya Pradesh, and also Khagaria and Munger in Bihar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-police-hike-reward-for-info-on-illegal-guns-trade-101639937423722.html
20-12-2021||Delhi||AAP, BJP tussle as MCDs ask central govt for funds||As the national Capital approaches the crucial municipal elections that are due in April next year, a war of words has ensued over the BJP-ruled MCDs approaching the Centre for financial assistance to tide over the severe financial crisis that the three civic bodies are going through.Having failed to pay salaries to their staff, who have gone on repeated strikes in protest, the civic body leaders approached the Union finance ministry two weeks ago, seeking financial assistance that the Centre extends to municipalities in all states. However, the request has been denied with the finance ministry clarifying that the stipulated fund of Rs488 per person per annum is given to the municipal bodies in states, and not the union territories.The Aam Aadmi Party, which is the main opposition in all three corporations, has targeted the BJP, saying if the civic bodies in Ghaziabad and Gurugram can get the funds, the Centre should not ignore Delhi and Chandigarh.A senior finance ministry officer who asked not to be named said there was no provision to allocate financial assistance to the municipal bodies in the union territories. “Every year, we release these funds to all the state governments for the development of municipal bodies there. But since the municipal bodies in the union territories are not eligible, we can’t allocate unless the eligibility conditions are amended,” he said.Senior AAP leader and the party’s MCD in-charge, Durgesh Pathak, said the MCD office-bearers must ask the Centre that how the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) – the civic body of Mumbai – is different from those in the national capital. “The BJP leaders in Delhi lack conviction and determination. Whenever they get an opportunity to interact with union ministers belonging to their party, they just want to please them instead of telling them about the financial distress the municipal bodies are facing. The fact is that Centre has never given a single penny of financial assistance to the MCDs. Besides, the central bodies owe thousand of crores in due to the civic bodies such as the Delhi Development Authority (DDA) has to pay ₹1,300 crore to South MCD, and ₹2,800 crore to North MCD,” he said.Pathak alleged that the BJP has turned the civic bodies “a white elephant”. “There are a number of areas in which the BJP-ruled MCDs have failed to deliver. The heaps of garbage and mountain-like landfills are common sights in the national capital. In the past few years, the Kejriwal government has proved that it can provide better facilities to Delhiites as it has given free electricity and water to one and all. Even the unauthorised colonies have been given the basic amenities. On the other hand, the employees and pensioners in the three MCDs have to protest for their salaries and dues. The BJP has no roadmap to bring MCDs out of bankruptcy,” he said.Delhi BJP chief Adesh Gupta countered that the AAP should ask its Delhi government about the dues that it owes the MCDs, instead of targeting the Centre. “If the AAP says that the Centre is not giving financial assistance to the MCDs, they should better ask this question to the Kejriwal government as such funds are given through the state government,” he said, adding that no requisition for this fund has been made by the Delhi government.BK Oberoi, chairman of the standing committee in South MCD, said municipalities do not believe in “hoodwinking the people by offering freebies”. “We are exploring avenues to meet our expenses. As far as getting dues from DDA or paying rent to North MCD are concerned, everything is being done in accordance with the law,” he said.The Congress, which has only 31 members of the total 215 councillors in the three corporations, accused both the ruling BJP and AAP, for the sorry state of affairs in the municipal bodies.Delhi Congress vice-president and SDMC councilor, Abhishek Dutt, said both the parties are the two sides of same coin. “Both these parties have never taken such issues on priority for discussion in the House. As a result of this blame game between the two parties, the employees as well as the common people have stayed at the receiving end,” he said.The three civic bodies have been in a financial mess ever since the MCD was trifurcated, and have struggled to implement new projects and pay salaries to their staff leading to strikes. In the build-up to the 2022 municipal elections, the BJP, which has been ruling the three civic bodies for the past 15 years, has come under severe attack from the opposition which has blamed the crisis on the mismanagement and rampant corruption in the civic bodies.The municipal corporation elections in Delhi are crucial for all the three main contenders -- for the BJP, it will be a big test if it could manage to hold on to power despite a huge anti-incumbency; for the AAP, it will be the last frontier in its bid for complete administrative control over Delhi after having humbled its political opponents in two consecutive assembly polls; and for the Congress it will be yet another elections where it has to fight to regain whatever space it could that it has ceded to rivals in 2013.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-political-war-of-words-over-mcds-seeking-central-funds-101639937064649.html
20-12-2021||Other||In Goa, more than half of legislators switched sides since 2017||On Friday, when independent legislator Rohan Khaunte resigned and joined the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), he became the 21st legislator to switch sides since 2017, a sort of record in itself. More than 50% of Goa’s 40-legislators find themselves in a different political party from which they were elected in the last assembly polls 2017.The biggest beneficiary of these defections has been the BJP which saw its numbers grow from 13 -- its lowest tally in an assembly poll since 1999 when it won ten seats -- to 27 at the time it persuaded ten legislators from the Congress and two from the MGP to switch sides to the BJP.In recent months, three legislators -- one each from the Congress, the Goa Forward and an independent - have resigned and switched to the BJP with the expectation that they will be offered the party’s tickets for the upcoming polls.The BJP has lost only one -- its Cortalim MLA Alina Saldanha to the Aam Aadmi Party.The biggest loser has been the congress whose strength in the Goa Legislative Assembly currently stands at three with the only upside being the party’s expected alliance with the Goa Forward Party that has also been able to bring independent legislator Prasad Gaonkar on board. Added to the mix is the Trinamool Congress (TMC) which has within its ranks two legislators who were elected in 2017.“This is a normal scenario in Goa. There are very few people like me who have not changed political parties and we are stuck where we are. This is happening because the public wants their MLA to be in power and every MLA runs where he presumes power will be there. This essentially happens because everybody expects their MLA to be in power that’s why everybody is shifting sides,” former MLA and member of the now nearly defunct United Goans Democratic Party Radharao Gracias, said.Gracias, known for his cynical view on politics, referred to Goa’s tumultuous past in the 1990s when the state saw 13 chief ministers assume the chair between 1990 and 2002 - the shortest being Churchill Alemao who was the chief minister for a mere 18 days - and legislators frequently changed sides the pulled the run under each other’s feet and various political formations were formed and dissipated.One would think the situation changed especially since it is more than 15 years since Goa was last brought under president’s rule (back in 2005) but Digambar Kamat of the Congress, who was chief minister between 2007 and 2012, remains the only chief minister in the history of Goa as a state to complete a full five-year term as Chief Minister.Gracias admits the current system has left the voter bewildered. “People are moving from anywhere to anywhere. People are joining and moving away from all parties. So probably sometime will have to pass before we can know at least what will happen because we do not know who will be with whom, when,” Gracias said.Political commentator Adv Cleofato Almeida Coutinho struck a more sombre tone cautioning that, if allowed to continue, the very system of partisan politics will cease to have any meaning.“When the Congress lost 10 MLAs to the BJP, people were saying that the Congress should put an end to this menace (of defections bereft of ideology) and opt for loyal faces. Today, those same people are saying that the Congress is not playing it smart,” Coutinho said.“If this is allowed to continue, then the very system of partisan politics should be under threat. The Election Commission should step in to ensure that a candidate is allowed to represent a party only if he has spent a certain amount of time in the party -- three years or more,” he added.The Congress for its part has assured that it has once and for all shut its door on those who have deserted the party in favour of the BJP assuring that they will not take them back even if they wished to come back.Former Goa chief minister Laxmikant Parsekar of the BJP, who has indicated that he is keen to protect not just his political turf but his ‘ideology’ from his local political rival Dayanand Sopte who joined the BJP from the Congress said that the “voter is wise enough to see through what’s going on.”Asked if we have now entered an era where ideology no longer matters in politics, Parsekar said that this question would be better answered by those who are “swearing at the BJP one day and joining the party the next.”Political analysts fear that the practice of frequent party jumping will lead to disenchantment among voters and possibly a lower voter turnout for a state that has been regularly crossing the 80% voting percentage mark.“I fail to understand how these MLAs jump from one party to another even after bad-mouthing the party they jump to. How and why do they even think of becoming ministers if they want to mess around with the people of Goa,” Gabel Mascarenhas, a working professional said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/in-goa-more-than-half-of-legislators-switched-sides-since-2017-101639911142880.html
