21-12-2021||Noida||12 farmers launch fast unto death to make Noida authority accept their demands||A group of 12 farmers camping outside the main administrative building of the Noida authority in Sector 6 has launched a fast unto death to press their demand for better compensation and other benefits in lieu of the land they have given to the authority for development.Farmers have been protesting against the Noida authority since September 1. Around 200 farmers are camping outside the main administrative building of the authority. The crowd of farmers outside the authority’s main office swells after 10am daily and thins out in the evening, as some of them return home. However, now most farmers stay during the night extend support to those who have been fasting since Monday. Former Uttar Pradesh chief minister Akhilesh Yadav, who is also the chief of Samajwadi Party, called farmers and threw his weight behind the agitation. Aam Aadmi Party MP for Rajya Sabha Sanjay Singh also attended the protest on Monday. After SP chief’s call, 10 farmers announced to observe an indefinite fast to push their demands. Later, two more farmers joined the fasting farmers on Tuesday.“Our fast unto death will not end till the authority accepts our demands on our terms. If the authority does not accept our demands and continues to fool us, our protest will grow stronger in future. We are in a mood to fight till the end now,” said Sukhbir Yadav, founder president of Bhartiya Kisan Parishad, who is leading the protest.Farmers want 10% of residential land against total land acquired by the authority for development, 64% more compensation to what they have received so far, old Abadi settlement in villages, unregulated construction in villages among other demands.Farmers from 80 villages are extending support to this agitation and also attending the protest in large numbers.“The support for the agitation is growing in the villages because of the atrocities meted out to farmers by the Noida authority. The authority has destroyed our livelihood. It is now refusing to give additional compensation. It has refused to give us residential plots citing land shortage but it is allotting land to developers and industrial companies,” said Rinku Chauhan, a farmer from Nagli Wazidpur, who attends the protest daily.CEO of Noida authority Ritu Maheshwari said, “We have discussed the farmers’ issues in the past and are ready to sit with them in future also to sort their issues. We are ready to accept their demands but cannot agree to those, which are outside the ambit of law.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/12-farmers-launch-fast-unto-death-to-make-noida-authority-accept-their-demands-101640111193404.html
21-12-2021||Noida||Ghaziabad falls short of its daily coronavirus testing target||Ghaziabad is failing to meet its daily target of collecting 7,400 samples per day as has been mandated by the state authorities, despite Covid cases increasing in the month of December, which has so far recorded 39 cases, the highest since August when the district recorded 26 cases. Official data shows the district has been collecting 4,700-5,000 samples per day. According to official data, the district collected 149,513 samples at an average of 4,985 samples per day in September while 135,237 samples were collected in October at an average of about 4,508 samples per day.In November, 79,792 samples were collectedat an average of 2,660 samples per day. This month, till December 21, the district collected 100,153 samples at an average of 4,769 samples per day. Health experts said with Covid cases rising in December, authorities should conduct anything between 6,000-7,000 samples per day and increase sampling if there is a further rise in cases.“Though most patients have remained asymptomatic, they could pass on the infection to others who may suffer symptoms. Hence, it is vital that the daily sampling be increased in order to trace more Covid cases. If there is early detection and treatment, the spread of the infection can be checked,” said Dr Ashish Aggarwal, former president of Indian Medical Association (Ghaziabad). “The sampling is less as the spread of infection is less. We have started collecting samples at our 28 urban primary health centres while 14 booths were already running for the same. Apart from this, we are also conducting samples of people in the out patient department of our facilities, at railway stations, at bus depots and also at the civil airport in Hindon,” said Dr Rakesh Gupta, district surveillance officer. The health department is planning to provide near-to-home sampling centres for the convenience of residents as and when Covid cases begin to rise. “We will rope in vans, in which our teams will go to the locations where Covid cases emerge. These vans will also be used for making public announcements. The staff in the vans will also carry sampling kits and test the residents,” Dr Gupta added. One more Covid case, tally for Dec 39A 30-year-old woman, who is employed in Germany and arrived in Ghaziabad on December 12, tested positive for Covid-19 on Tuesday, taking the tally of cases in the month of December to 39, of which 23 are active cases. Officials said the woman is in home isolation and has no symptoms. She has received both doses of the Astrazeneca vaccine.Her sample has been sent for genome sequencing and the results are awaited. 
21-12-2021||Pune||Constable helps candidate in exam using mobile concealed inside face mask, held||PUNE: A police constable posted at Aurangabad police headquarters was remanded to seven days in police custody for trying to help a candidate appearing for police recruitment exam in Pune on November 19. The candidate, who fled from the spot on the day of the examination, was also arrested by the police. The arrested policeman was identified as Rahul Uttam Gaikwad, 33, while the candidate was identified as Ganesh Rambhau Vaidya, 25, according to the police. The two were remanded to police custody till December 27 by the court of Judicial Magistrate First Class SG Dolare with public prosecutor Vijaysinh Jadhav and defence lawyer Anup Kumar. Investigation officer police sub-inspector MB Gadhave was present in the court as well. The accused had tried to use a white face mask used for protection from Covid infection and attached it with a battery and a SIM card which turned it into a makeshift concealed mobile phone. The men had connected a battery with a charging cable which was connected with a slot that had a device carrying a SIM card in it. The set-up was attached to a mic and a button. One of the two men who were first arrested were found with a micro Bluetooth device that was small enough to be concealed inside the ears. Two others arrested in the case earlier were identified as Nitin Jagannath Misal, 24, and Rameshwar Dadasaheb Shinde, 25, both residents of Aurangabad. “The earlier accused were arrested and produced before court in connection with this case and released on December 10 and December 14,” said advocate Kumar. During their custody interrogation, the two men arrested earlier revealed that Vaidya had used the device set-up for Nashik police recruitment exam on August 28. Upon investigation, the police found involvement of Gaikwad as the person on the other side of the phone line to have helped Vaidya. “I (Gaikwad) am a police official and present on duty. I was arrested while I was on duty. I was not served with notice under Section 41(a) of CrPC to explain why I was being arrested. There is also no chance of me absconding since I’m a serving official and there is no recovery from me,” said advocate Kumar while asking for judicial custody instead of police custody for Gaikwad. However, prosecutor Jadhav said, “They have cheated in an exam where one appeared and the other told answers from outside. Plus, Gaikwad’s father-in-law runs an academy for police exam. There is enough proof of malpractice against him.” They were arrested in a case registered at Hinjewadi police station under Sections 7 of Maharashtra Prevention of Malpractices at University, Board and other specified Examinations Act and Sections 188, 420, 511, and 120(b) of Indian Penal Code.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/constable-helps-candidate-in-exam-using-mobile-concealed-inside-face-mask-held-101640110893207.html
21-12-2021||Noida||Five fresh coronavirus cases in Gautam Budh Nagar, total tally reaches 63||Five fresh Covid-19 cases were reported in Gautam Budh Nagar on Tuesday, taking the tally of cases reported so far in the month of December to 63, of which 27 are active cases. While there are still 10 days left in the month, the Covid cases reported so far in December are already higher than the number of cases reported in the last five months since August. There was a steady decline in Covid cases in the district, though gradually.While 51 Covid cases were reported in August, the case tally fell to 48 in September, 43 in October and marginally increased to 61 in November. Few cases reported earlier every month have been taken off from the total tally since duplicate IDs were generated if a person underwent a Covid test a second time. The ICU incharge of Sharada hospital in Gautam Budh Nagar is among the five positive cases identified in the district on Tuesday. Three others are symptomatic patients, who got tested after visiting doctors while one more tested positive during random sampling. “The doctor is doing fine and is in home isolation. We are informing and testing all his primary contacts at the hospital and checking on anyone with related symptoms,” said Ajit Kumar, spokesperson for Sharada hospital. Meanwhile, all the five international travellers, who tested positive for Covid-19 and were admitted to Noida Covid Hospital, have been discharged. The genome sequencing test results show none of them have tested positive for the Omicron variant. Over 2000 travelers from ‘at-risk’ countries have come to Noida so far, who are being gradually tested. “We have ramped up testing and have prepared the necessary infrastructure if there is a spike in cases,” said Dr Sunil Sharma, chief medical officer. Meanwhile, vaccinations have also increased in the district with over 1.9 million first doses and 1.26 million second doses administered in the district. A total of 3,178,168 doses have been given in Noida. The estimated population over 18 years of age is about 1.57 million. While more than 300,000 extra first doses have been given in Noida, a similar number of beneficiaries is left to take the second dose. The state has set a deadline of December 31 for the district to achieve 100% vaccination of both doses. However, with about 6,000-8,000 doses being given daily on average, it seems unlikely that the target for the second dose will be met. The health department has called a meeting on Wednesday with all private facilities to discuss the vaccination scenario and steps to ramp up inoculation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/five-fresh-coronavirus-cases-in-gautam-budh-nagar-total-tally-reaches-63-101640110717781.html
21-12-2021||Noida||As cases rise four private hospitals in Ghaziabad roped in as Covid centres||The district health department has empanelled four private hospitals in Kaushambi, Vaishali, Vasundhara and Nehru Nagar as Covid-19 care facilities with the rates fixed by the Uttar Pradesh government in April 2020, officials said on Tuesday.The move came in the wake of an increase in the number Covid-19 cases reported in the district during December.“The four private hospitals have been directed to dedicate one Covid-19 wing for the purpose, even for one coronavirus infected patient. These hospitals have been asked to adhere to the rates ranging between ₹8,000 and ₹18,000, already fixed by the state government for the treatment of Covid-19 patients,” said Dr Sunil Tyagi, additional chief medical officer (ACMO), Ghaziabad.In April, the Uttar Pradesh government capped the maximum charges for treating a Covid-19 in ‘A’ category cities, including Ghaziabad and Gautam Budh Nagar. According to the order, the maximum charges for isolation beds (for moderate sickness) in National Accreditation Board for Hospitals and Healthcare Providers (NABH) accredited hospitals was capped at ₹10,000 per day (PD) and non-NABH at ₹8,000 PD; for intensive care unit (ICU) beds without ventilators (severe sickness) in NABH accredited hospitals at ₹15,000 PD and non-NABH at ₹13,000 PD; and for ICU beds with ventilators in NABH accredited hospitals at ₹18,000 PD and non-NABH at ₹15,000.All the charges include cost of personal protective equipment (PPE) kits, and any kind of extra charges on consultancy fees, nursing care, monitoring, and visits among others were punishable under the Epidemic Act, according to the order.The chief medical officer (CMO) of Ghaziabad, Bhavtosh Shankhdhar, did not comment on the matter despite repeated calls.The four private hospitals selected for empanelment have a total of 54 beds for Covid-19 patients. The district health department has already dedicated two Covid-19 wards of 20 beds, each at Santosh Medical Hospital and Sanjay Nagar Combined District Hospital.“The four private hospitals empanelled as Covid-19 care facilities and Sanjay Nagar Combined District Hospital will be operated as L2 category facilities, and Santosh Medical College will act as L3 facility. We have also kept in mind that all the private hospitals getting rolled in for Covid treatment should have ample oxygen supply,” Tyagi said.Under the Uttar Pradesh government’s three-tier Covid care structure, L1 hospitals are for Covid patients with mild symptoms, L2 hospitals for patients with moderate symptoms, and L3 hospitals for tertiary care.After facing a huge crisis of oxygen supply during the peak of the second wave of Covid-19 in March this year, the district set up 11 oxygen plants — all operational — at different government facilities to ease any possible wave in the future, said the officials.Experts, meanwhile, said that the empanelment process for Covid care facilities has been initiated.“Since many complained that several private hospitals overcharged patients during the second wave of Covid-19, now we ensure that all the hospitals act responsibly and in accordance with the guidelines issued by the state government,” said Dr Ashish Aaggarwal, former president of Indian Medical Association, Ghaziabad chapter.The district operated 58 different Covid care facilities, including 48 private hospitals (L2 hospitals) on a paid basis during the second wave of Covid-19.According to official figures as of Tuesday, nearly 19,368 patients have been treated for Covid-19 infections at different facilities in Ghaziabad, since the Covid outbreak in March 2020.
21-12-2021||Pune||Pune techie duped of ₹9.25 lakh in matrimonial website fraud||PUNE: A 36-year-old IT engineer from Pune was duped of ₹9.25 lakh by a woman he contacted on an online matrimonial platform. A resident of Bundgarden area of Pune, the man matched with the woman in May with a profile that allegedly had fake information about her. The two got talking and the accused allegedly gained the complainant’s confidence and lured him with acceptance of his marriage proposal before she started asking for money. The man made multiple transactions to the accused’s account for various reasons cited by the accused, including lawyer’s fees for transfer of property in her name, expenses for a severe medical condition she claimed to be suffering from and court case. However, the man realised after four months that he was being duped and approached the police. “He works at an IT company in Kharadi. He met her online and they developed a relationship online. He has never met this person. When she started asking for even higher amount of money, he got suspicious and lodged a complaint,” said senior inspector Vinayak Vetal of Koregaon Park police station. A case under Sections 406 (criminal breach of trust), 419 (personation), 420 (cheating) of Indian Penal Code along with Sections 66(c) and 66(d) of Information Technology Act 2000 was registered at Koregaon Park police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pune-techie-duped-of-rs-9-25-lakh-in-matrimonial-website-fraud-101640110353230.html
21-12-2021||Lucknow||PM Modi to lay Banas dairy foundation in Kashi tomorrow||VARANASI Prime Minister Narendra Modi will lay the foundation stone of Banas Dairy Kashi Sankul at Karkhiyaon here on December 23. The objective of this project is to empower the farmers and milk producers of Purvanchal region and provide good quality products at affordable prices, as per a government statement. The PM would also digitally transfer Rs. 35.19 crores to bank accounts of around 1,75,000 milk farmers as year-end dividend for 2020-21, the statement added. In July 2021, Banas Dairy provided 100 cows of the best indigenous breeds to farmer families in Varanasi for model dairy farming. These farmers were given training in cattle rearing and dairy farm management and arrangements were made for continuous guidance for animal husbandry, added the statement. Presently, more than 25,000 litres of milk is procured on a daily basis from 111 places in Varanasi. Banas dairy is now setting up its third plant in Varanasi after Lucknow and Kanpur. It will have a capacity of 5 lakh litres per day, which can be expanded up to 10 lakh litres per day and will be built on 30 acres of land with an estimated cost of ₹475 crores. The plant will also produce 50,000 litres of ice cream, 20 tonnes of paneer, 75,000 litres of butter milk, 50 tonnes of curd, 15,000 litres of lassi and 10,000 kg of Amul sweets per day. The plant will also have a bakery unit and will include a take home ration plant to produce nutritional supplements for women and children. This project will benefit the local farmers of 1,000 neighbouring villages of Purvanchal region like Varanasi, Jaunpur, Machchlishahr, Chandauli, Bhadohi, Ghazipur, Mirzapur and Azamgarh and they will get Rs.8,000-10,000 for their milk per month. Customers will also get high quality products at affordable prices. This project is expected to provide direct employment to 750 people in the plant, about 2,350 people in allied works and about 1,00,000 people in villages, as per the statement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/pm-modi-to-lay-banas-dairy-foundation-in-kashi-tomorrow-101640110053076.html
21-12-2021||Delhi||Delhi HC orders social disability audit within six weeks||New Delhi: The Delhi high court has ordered the city government to conduct a social disability audit, preferably within six weeks, noting that non-availability of enabling infrastructure is glaring and apparent throughout the city.Hearing a petition filed by a wheelchair-bound young school girl, Justice Najmi Waziri said on December 16 that the “freedom of movement has to be honoured and assured in every way possible” and “it cannot be restrained by lack of civic amenities”. The court said that the Delhi government can seek assistance of the School of Planning and Architecture for the audit. The judge also said that each agency including North Delhi Municipal Corporation, Public Works Department, DISCOM, Delhi Police, Delhi Traffic Police, Delhi Transport Corporation, Delhi Metro Rail Corporation, New Delhi Municipal Council as well as such other agencies, will appoint a senior officer not below the rank of the executive engineer to assist and coordinate with the nodal officer appointed by the Delhi government, for provision of due facilities to persons with disabilities.The court also said that all agencies in Delhi, who provide facilities to the public, including road maintaining authorities, DTC, DMRC, Railways, airports authority, etc, shall assist and coordinate with a designated officer of the Delhi government, so that the objectives of Right to Disability Act as soon as possible. It noted that any compensation to the girl would be meaningless if the public infrastructure in the city limits her movement.“It is hoped that in three months streets not less than two kilometres each in the South, East, North, West and Central regions will be identified, and made ready, in terms of the social disability audit, and as may be advised by the SPA,” the court said.The matter would be heard on February 22.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-hc-orders-social-disability-audit-within-six-weeks-101640109933408.html
21-12-2021||Pune||NCP, Cong, Sena oppose Metro work at Deccan||PUNE: Even after deputy chief minister and Pune guardian minister Ajit Pawar asked the Maha-Metro (Maharashtra Metro Rail Corporation Limited) to restart the work of installing viaduct at Sambhaji bridge at Deccan under police cover, the three Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) partners now want it to be stalled. The Congress, Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) and Shiv Sena on Tuesday created ruckus at the general body meeting of Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) demanding not to restart the work near Sambhaji bridge, popularly known as Lakdi pul. The three political parties said that since some Ganesh mandals have expressed opposition, work should not be started. The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) termed opposition from three parties as political ahead of the civic polls. In a letter to Pune police, Maha-Metro has sought police protection to restart the work with plan to begin it on Tuesday night. However, with the NCP, Congress and Sena opposing the move, Maha-Metro may not restart it immediately. During the general body meeting, Congress members were opposing the plan to restart the work citing that the Metro bridge on Lakdi Pul will create hurdle for Ganesh immersion procession. Soon, NCP and Sena members too joined the ruckus and stalled the meeting. As the opposition continued the agitation, ruling BJP adjourned the general body meeting. Pune mayor Murlidhar Mohol said, “After concerns raised by Ganesh mandals and opposition parties, I had ordered stay on the work. The metro studied various proposals and technical aspects and rejected the original proposal to increase the height of the viaduct. We held three meetings to consider demand of Ganesh mandals but as work was getting delayed and Maha-Metro’s technical committee suggested any other option will increase the cost and delay project, I asked Maha-Metro to restart the work.” According to the mayor, earlier on December 13, Ajit Pawar held meeting with Maha-Metro and asked the officials to restart work in police presence. Meanwhile opposition parties also approached Pawar, who heard both Metro officials and Ganesh mandals. Pawar asked PMC to discuss with mandal workers and after discussion restart the work. Mayor said, “We have also been associated with Ganesh mandals. But while carrying out development work, we need to take some decisions. Considering this, I had instructed the Maha-Metro to restart the work.” As PMC already discussed with mandals, civic officials too instructed Maha-Metro to take police protection and resume work. Maha-Metro officials later met the police and shared action plan to carry the work. It was decided that the Metro work would resume on December 21 at night, but the opposition parties raised the issue again.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/ncp-cong-sena-oppose-metro-work-at-deccan-101640109873988.html
21-12-2021||Pune||New pipelines to address water supply in Ambegaon, Katraj||PUNE: To address the water supply issue, the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) on Tuesday has approved ₹13 lakh to lay pipelines from the highway at Ambegaon and Santoshnagar. Hence, the new tanks will be filled up and residents will get water. Though PMC constructed four new water pipelines under the 24x7 water project, it was not laid to cross the highway between Navale bridge and Katraj. PMC standing committee chairman Hemant Rasne said, “The new lines would cross the road near Potdar School and Santoshnagar. It would help to fill up water tanks and distribute water to Ambegaon and Katraj areas.” As PMC would cross the lines from highway, it will need to pay fees to the National Highways Authority of India. Recently, PMC paid similar fees for shifting utility lines as the widening work is carried out by NHAI.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/new-pipelines-to-address-water-supply-in-ambegaon-katraj-101640109633292.html
21-12-2021||Lucknow||Ensure vacant posts in med colleges are timely advertised, filled: Allahabad HC to UP govt||Taking serious note of vacant posts in state medical colleges, the Allahabad high court has directed the Uttar Pradesh (UP) government to make sincere efforts to ensure that senior level faculty posts are timely advertised in all medical colleges and vacancies are filled expeditiously as it directly affects teaching of students.Disposing of a writ petition filed by Dr Yasmeen Usmani, Justice Alok Mathur further directed that a copy of this order shall be communicated to the principal secretary, medical education, UP by the chief standing counsel, representing the state government.Petitioner Dr Yasmeen Usmani is a professor in the radio diagnosis department and is presently posted at Shaikh-Ul-Hind Maulana Mahmood Hasan Medical College, Saharanpur. By an order dated August 24, 2021, passed by the state government, she was directed to perform duties for four days a week at the medical college, Meerut, and in Saharanpur for the remaining two days.She challenged the said order before the high court where her counsel submitted that the piquant situation had arisen on account to the fact that between both the medical colleges, the petitioner is only the professor in the radio diagnosis department and consequently due to acute shortage of vacancy of specialist in the field of radio diagnosis department, the services of the petitioner had been divided in the two medical colleges.It was submitted that being a woman commuting 150km twice a week was burdensome for the petitioner and consequently requested that she may be permitted to resume and continue with her services at medical college, Meerut.However, the state counsel supported the aforesaid order stating that the same had been passed in the public interest as well as in the interest of the patients and consequently she was the only professor in the radio diagnosis department, hence she had been asked to perform the duties for four days in a week at Meerut and two days at Saharanpur.Disposing of the petition, the court directed the petitioner to make a fresh representation before principal secretary, medical education, government of UP, Lucknow, within two weeks which shall be considered and decided in accordance with law expeditiously within a period of four weeks thereafter and communicate the decision to the petitioner.While passing the above directives in its order dated December 20 (Monday), the court observed, “This court has an opportunity to notice the present situation where at such senior level in two medical colleges, there is acute shortage of senior staff including post of Professor in the Radio-Diagnosis Department, which has led to passing of the aforesaid order. It also transpires that the said situation is in existence since at least 2018 and for the last two years not much efforts have been made to make fresh appointments to the post of Professor in the Radio-Diagnosis Department and even in case the efforts have been made, they have not been successful in filling the vacancy.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/ensure-vacant-posts-in-med-colleges-are-timely-advertised-filled-allahabad-hc-to-up-govt-101640109573054.html
21-12-2021||Delhi||No congregation possible at Nizamuddin Markaz, Delhi HC told||New Delhi: The Delhi high court has been informed that the three portions of the Markaz building, which was sealed after the Tablighi Jamaat gathering in 2020, are well defined and separated from each other such that no religious congregation can take place there. The information was given in an inspection report conducted jointly by the city police and Delhi Waqf Board, nearly a month after the court ordered to demarcate the areas and see if they can be opened in adherence to Covid-19 norms and the guidelines issued by the Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA). On November 16, the high court directed five members of the city police and the same number of representatives from the Delhi Waqf Board to conduct a joint inspection at the Markaz building.The report, which HT has seen, said that the Markaz building has three portions -- Masjid Bangley Wali (the mosque), Madrasa Kashif-ul-Uloom and an attached hostel. It said that except the mosque and the hall of the madrasa, there is no other place where people can gather to perform prayers. “That on the spot, madrasa, masjid and the hostel are already well defined and separated from each other. The construction of madrasa and hostel, except the hall of madrasa, is such that no religious congregation or assemblies can take place in any of those two portions,” the document, filed on December 11, said.The report, accessed by HT, also says that in the Masjid, there are two portions-- one meant for prayers and another for other religious assemblies—which are demarcated by a green strip on each floor.The directions for conducting an inspection came when the court was hearing a plea by the Delhi Waqf Board seeking to de-seal the Markaz building, where a Tablighi Jamaat congregation was held amid the Covid-19 pandemic in March 2020.The report was filed by the standing counsel of the Delhi Waqf Board along with the signatures of five police officials, who were a part of the joint inspection.The matter will be heard next on January 12, 2022.The board, in its plea filed through advocate Wajeeh Shafiq, contended that even after Unlock guidelines permitted religious places outside containment zones to be opened, the Markaz complex continued to be locked up.It further contended that even if the premises are part of any criminal investigation or trial, keeping it “under lock and out of bounds” was a “primitive method” of the inquiry process.On April 15, the court allowed 50 people to offer namaz five times a day at the Nizamuddin Markaz during Ramzan, saying there is no direction from the DDMA to close down places of worship.The court allowed namaz to be performed on “the first floor above the basement” of the mosque, making clear that it has to be opened “strictly in accordance” with the DDMA’s April 10 notification and other standard operating protocols.
21-12-2021||Lucknow||UP polls: BSP finalises candidates for 100 seats||Lucknow: Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) chief Mayawati has finalized party candidates on 100 seats in Uttar Pradesh for the 2022 assembly elections. The names of the selected candidates are being announced in public meetings organized by the party leaders in various districts. The candidates have been made in charge of the assembly segments from which they will contest the coming election. The BSP plans to finalize the candidates on the remaining 300 seats by mid- January next year. After the Election Commission announces the assembly election schedule, the BSP chief would launch the campaign with public meetings in various districts, said a BSP leader. The top leaders of Bharatiya Janata Party, Samajwadi Party and Congress have launched aggressive election campaigns across Uttar Pradesh. They accused Mayawati of shying away from the electoral battle field and limiting her activities within the walls of her residence or party state unit office, press statements and tweets. But the BSP chief had taken a lead over the rival parties with finalizing the candidates on over 100 assembly seats and mobilizing the party cadre for the crucial 2022 assembly election, the BSP leader said. National general secretary of BSP Satish Chandra Mishra said the BJP, SP and Congress were luring leaders with tickets for the assembly elections. The rival parties had promised tickets to 10 candidates on a single seat, but their tactics had been exposed as the prospective candidates were being pressurized to bring people to public meetings. Wary of rebellion, the rival parties were delaying the selection of candidates, he said. The BSP did not indulge in the politics of false promises to the people or the candidates. Party chief Mayawati had already announced that the party would not release an election manifesto. She was screening the candidates for all the assembly seats after names were forwarded by the party chief sector in charges. The BSP had announced candidates on 100 seats and those on remaining 303 seats would be announced soon, he said. The BSP had also made clear that it would go solo in the assembly elections, whereas the BJP, SP and Congress leaders were busy luring the smaller political parties that enjoyed influence over various communities and regional pockets in UP. The BSP did not need crutches to form government in UP and the selection of candidates was being done in a transparent manner, he said. The BSP was working on social engineering formula- ‘sarvajan hitay- sarvajan sukhay’ to win the elections. The members of all communities were being given adequate representation in distribution of tickets, Mishra said. Along with the 403 assembly seats in Uttar Pradesh, Mayawati is also screening and finalizing the candidates for the 70 assembly seats in neighbouring Uttarakhand (where the party will contest on its own strength) as well as Punjab where the BSP is contesting assembly election in alliance with Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD). “Out of the 20 seats in Punjab, the BSP has announced candidates on 17 seats”, said BSP Punjab unit president Jasvir Singh Garhi. BSP Uttarkhand unit president Sish Pal Singh said, “The party has finalized the candidates on seven seats. BSP chief Mayawati is screening the candidates and the names for the remaining 63 seats will be announced in early January.” Candidates for 7 Lko seats The Bahujan Samaj Party has finalized candidates on seven assembly seats out of the nine seats in Lucknow district. To win the support of the minority community, Mayawati has fielded Muslim candidates on four assembly seats- Lucknow North, Lucknow West, Bakshi Ka Talab and Sarojini Nagar. BSP district unit president Akhilesh Ambedkar said the party had finalized ticket of Salauddin Siddiqui from Bakshi Ka Talab, Jaleel Khan from Sarojini Nagar, Qayam Raza Khan from Lucknow West and Sarwar Mullick from Lucknow North assembly seat. The party had decided to field Devendra Pasi from Mohanlalganj, Anil Pandey from Lucknow Cantonment and Ashish Chandra from Lucknow Central assembly seat. The candidates on Malihabad and Lucknow East would be announced soon, he said. The BSP had failed to open its account in Lucknow district in the 2017 assembly election. The BJP had bagged eight seats while the SP secured victory on one seat. Union defence minister Rajnath represents Lucknow seat in the Lok Sabha. 
21-12-2021||Delhi||Delhi Police busts interstate gun racket, seizes 15 pistols||Police on Tuesday said they had busted an interstate gang of gunrunners that supplied over 400 illegal firearms to criminals in Delhi-NCR in the last two years. The special cell arrested two members of the gangon Monday and recovered 15 illegal pistols and 30 cartridges from them, the police said.“Since the arrested men are members of an organised syndicate, we have booked them under the stringent provisions of the amended Arms Act, which has the provision of a 10-year sentence that can be extended upto life imprisonment,” said deputy commissioner of police (special cell) Jasmeet Singh.Senior police officers said that in the recent past, several illegal firearm syndicates involved in the supply of illegal arms and ammunition to criminals in Delhi-NCR and adjoining states after procuring them from Madhya Pradesh have been identified .On December 20 (Monday), the special cell’s southern range team learnt that two members of a syndicate would reach Dhaula Kuan to deliver a consignment of illegal weapons to their contact between 9pm and 10pm. Accordingly, the team laid a trap and caught the suspects after a brief scuffle during which the suspects whipped out their pistols and threatened to open fire at the police. They had arrived in a Tiago car from which the police recovered two bags containing arms and ammunition.“Eight pistols and 10 bullets were seized from a bag that belonged to Chhote Kumar,34, while a bag that was with his associate, Dinesh (known by his first name), 32, contained seven pistols and 20 bullets. They used the car in trafficking of the firearms. Hence, the car was also confiscated,” said the DCP.Interrogation of the arrested men, the police said, revealed that the two had procured the firearms and ammunition from an illegal manufacturer and supplier of firearms in Khargone in Madhya Pradesh. The two confessed to have supplied nearly 400 firearms to criminals in Delhi-NCR in the last two years.“They purchased one semi-automatic pistol for ₹7,000 and sold it for ₹25,000. A single shot pistol cost them ₹1,000 and they sold it for ₹4,000. Kumar was previously involved in nine cases, including murder, attempt to murder, extortion, robbery and firing on police party. In 2013, Kumar and his associates had shot dead one Pappu in Aligarh to avenge the murder of his brother, Jawahar Singh. He was last arrested in 2015 by the special cell and released a while later,” said DCP Singh, adding that Dinesh had three cases registered against him.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-police-busts-interstate-gun-racket-seizes-15-pistols-101640109333213.html
21-12-2021||Pune||Pune district reports 206 new Covid cases, 4 deaths||Pune: As per the state health authorities, Pune district reported 206 more Covid-19 positive cases and four deaths due to the infection in 24 hours. One patient was tested positive for the Omicron variant from Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC), along with 10 others from Maharashtra. As of now, a total of 22 patients have tested positive for Omicron from Pune district. Of the Covid deaths, two were reported from Pune rural and two from Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) in the last 24 hours. As per the department officials, PMC has so far reported 524,718 Covid cases and 9,236 deaths till Tuesday. PCMC has reported 270,647 cases and 3,518 deaths due to Covid. Pune rural has reported 369,095 total cases and 7,015 deaths due to the virus. In Pune district, there are a total of 1,164,460 Covid cases. Of this, 1,142,487 patients have recovered. There has been a total of 20,119 deaths in the district. And at present, there are 1,854 active cases in Pune district. As per the state health department, 792 patients were discharged on Tuesday in Maharashtra taking the total to 6,498,807 in the state. The recovery rate in the state is 97.71%. Across Maharashtra, 825 new cases of Covid were diagnosed on Tuesday and 14 Covid deaths were reported on Tuesday. The case fatality rate in the state is 2.12%. The state health department stated that of 67,883,061 laboratory samples, 6,650,965 have been tested positive till Tuesday. That is 9.8% of patients till Tuesday. Currently, 73,053 people are in home quarantine and 864 in institutional quarantine.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pune-district-reports-206-new-covid-cases-4-deaths-101640109214643.html
21-12-2021||Lucknow||Lucknow reports two fresh Covid-19 cases||Lucknow reports two new Covid-19 casesTwo cases of Covid-19 were reported in the state capital on Tuesday, while one patient recovered from the infection, said district surveillance officer Dr Milind Wardhan. Presently, there are 41 active corona cases in the city. He said, “Both patients are women, one is from Alambagh and the other is from Hazratganj. The woman from Alambagh was found positive after she went for a test to get treatment at KGMU. The other one has come back from another city and the health officials are tracing their travel history. Both the samples would be sent for genome sequencing.” Till now samples of as many as 50 contacts of new patients were taken for testing. In all, 2651 people have lost their lives due to corona in Lucknow so far.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/lucknow-reports-two-fresh-covid-19-cases-101640109153755.html
21-12-2021||Lucknow||Gangster’s encounter: Allahabad HC quashes CJM court’s order for FIR against IPS officer, others||The Lucknow bench of the Allahabad high court on Tuesday quashed the chief judicial magistrate (CJM) court’s order to lodge a First Information Report (FIR) against an IPS officer, an inspector and other cops in the Girdhari Vishwakarma encounter case. A single judge bench of Justice Rajeev Singh quashed the CJM court’s order to lodge an FIR against the cops allegedly involved in the encounter of gangster Girdhari Vishwakarma after listening to the arguments of the state government and the petitioner’s counsel. Additional advocate general Vinod Kumar Shahi appeared on behalf of the state government. To recall, CJM Suman Kumari had on February 25, 2021, had issued orders to lodge an FIR at Hazratganj police station against DCP (East) Sanjeev Suman; inspector, Vibhuti Khand police station, Chandrashekhar Singh and other police officials involved in the encounter. The CJM had also issued orders to submit a copy of the FIR in the court within seven days and directed that a senior cop must probe the encounter. Gangster Girdhari Vishwakarma ‘Kanhaiya’ was gunned down in a police encounter on February 14, 2021, at Kathauta crossing in Lucknow’s Vibhuti Khand police station limits when he tried to allegedly escape from custody during his three-day custody remand. The Delhi police had arrested Girdhari from New Delhi on January 11 last. Girdhari, who had a long criminal record, was the key accused in the murder of mafioso-turned-MLA Mukhtar Ansari’s aide Ajit Singh who was killed in Lucknow on January 6, 2021. The high court on March 2, 2021, had stayed the CJM’s order on a petition filed by the state government challenging the FIR order.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/gangsters-encounter-allahabad-hc-quashes-cjm-court-s-order-for-fir-against-ips-officer-others-101640109093047.html
21-12-2021||Delhi||Ugandan national held with heroin worth ₹14 crore at Delhi airport||A woman from Uganda was arrested at Delhi’s Indira Gandhi International (IGI) Airport on Tuesday by the customs department after she was found carrying heroin worth ₹14.14 crore in her luggage. Customs officials say the woman arrived from Dubai and was taken for a detailed baggage examination, based on a tip-off. “We recovered a white powdery substance concealed inside the bag. The powder was later tested and turned out to be heroin,” said an official who requested anonymity, adding they recovered a total of 2020 grams of the substance. “The woman has been booked under the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act and the drugs have been seized,” the customs department added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/ugandan-national-held-with-heroin-worth-14-crore-at-delhi-airport-101640109033065.html
21-12-2021||Lucknow||Caste census within 3 months if voted to power: Akhilesh Yadav||Agra Samajwadi Party national Akhilesh Yadav on Tuesday promised a caste census within three months if his Samajwadi Party was voted to power in Uttar Pradesh, to give people their rights according to their share in the population. He alleged that the income tax department, Enforcement Directorate (ED) and Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) were more of organizational cells for the Bhartiya Janata Party and got active in states going for elections. Akhilesh was in Mainpuri on Tuesday to begin the eighth phase of his Vijay Yatra and addressed a public meeting on Christian College ground before flagging off the yatra for Etah, where another meet was scheduled. “We are committed to caste-based census and will get it done within three months of coming to power in Uttar Pradesh so that the deserving can get rights according to their share in population,” said Akhilesh. Caste-based census has been an issue, specially in UP and Bihar. Recently, Bihar chief minister Nitish Yadav had led a delegation to meet the Prime Minister in Delhi. There is a belief that a caste census would lead to an increase in the quote for Other Backward Classes (OBC) in government jobs and educational institutions. “Once we got into alliance with ‘Chacha ki party’ (Pragatisheel Samajwadi Party headed by uncle Shivpal Yadav), there began a series of raids in the state” he said, referring to income tax raids on those close to the SP. “More such visits would be made by the BJP ‘prakoshth’ (organizational cells) in Delhi. The CBI, ED and income tax department are behaving more like organizations cells of BJP. They got active in Maharashtra, West Bengal and are now active in UP. However they will not be able to avert the historic defeat of the BJP in Uttar Pradesh as in other states,” said Akhilesh. ‘Samajwadi Party will face all such tactics by BJP,” Akhilesh aid, adding ‘jo dar gaya, so mar gaya’. “Law and order is at its worst and crimes against women are rising but the UP government only changed the number of Dial 100 service to 112. The six ‘Jan Vishwas Yatras’ of the BJP are proving a flop and in contrast lakhs are coming on their own to be part of the Samajwadi Party’s Vijay Yatra,” he claimed. Pleased by the huge turnout of followers in Mainpuri and on way to Etah, the SP president had awkward moments when the media asked him about absence of his ‘chacha’ (uncle) Shivpal Yadav in hs home constituency of Mainpuri. There were expectations of Shivpals presence but he was not there. “This event is of Samajwadi Party and thus its party leaders and followers are here. We are in alliance with regional parties who organize events of their party in their respective region and I attend them on being invited. I have attended rally organized by the party of Rajbhar, Sanjay Chauhan and by leaders of Mahaan Dal and would do so with the party of uncle (Shivpal Yadav) with which we might have a joint programme in future,” said Akhilesh. Akhilesh and Shivpal had parted ways and Shivpal Yadav had created a new party named Pragatisheel Samajwadi Party which fought in 2019 parliament election but with no success. 
21-12-2021||Delhi||3 held for murdering IAS aspirant over petty dispute in Delhi||A week after a 20-year-old IAS aspirant was stabbed to death and his friend was injured in outer Delhi’s Mangolpuri, the police on Tuesday said that they have arrested three men and claimed that the suspects allegedly launched the attack over a minor issue of brushing against one of their shoulders.Police said the three suspects, who had been on the run since the crime took place on the night of December 14, were arrested from the city.While one of them, Rohit (22), was arrested three days after the murder, the other two had absconded after reading in the newspaper the next day that one of the victims died.“The two suspects, Mukesh (22) and Raunak (19), were hiding in a vacant jhuggi near railways tracks in Mangolpuri. As the two only had ₹1,500 with them, they were surviving on bread and milk since the day they had absconded. They wanted to avoid arrest for as long as possible but had only limited money to spend,” said Parvinder Singh, deputy commissioner of police (outer).DCP Singh said police were informed about the stabbing at N-block in Mangolpuri around 8.30pm on December 14. A police team reached the spot and found two injured men, identified as Amardeep (20) and his friend Sagar (20), and rushed them to a nearby hospital where the former was declared brought dead. Sagar told police that his friend was preparing for civil services and gave private tuitions to children in his neighbourhood to earn money for his expenses.Sagar told police that they were walking towards another friend’s house when the three suspects picked a fight with them after their shoulder brushed against one of the suspect’s.According to police, the suspects initially left but soon returned with knives and allegedly attacked them.“We registered a case of murder and scanned nearly 350 CCTV cameras around the crime scene and the routes leading to it. The first breakthrough came when our team caught Rohit. His interrogation led to the identification of the other two suspects, Mukesh and Raunak. The two were caught on Monday,” said DCP Singh, adding that all three work as daily wagers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/3-held-for-murdering-ias-aspirant-over-petty-dispute-in-delhi-101640108853672.html
21-12-2021||Lucknow||Security on Ram Janmabhoomi campus in Ayodhya reviewed||A committee on the security of Ram Janmabhoomi reviewed security on the campus in Ayodhya and issued necessary directives to the authorities concerned, on Tuesday.In a meeting convened on Tuesday, senior superintendent of police, Ayodhya, Shailesh Kumar Pandey, made a presentation on existing security measures in place at Ram Janmabhoomi. Additional director general of police, security, Vinod Kumar Singh, inspector general of police, Ayodhya, KP Singh, DIG, CRPF, Sanjeev Rao and regional director of IB, Ramakant Gupta, were present. District magistrate, Ayodhya, Nitish Kumar, and member of Sri Ram Janmabhoomi Tirath Kshetra Trust, Anil Mishra, were also present. Five terrorists had attacked Ram Janmabhoomi on July 5, 2005. All five were killed in the ensuing gun battle with the CRPF. Two civilians were also killed in the firing. The state government had constituted a committee to oversee security on Ram Janmabhoomi campus before the construction of the Ram Mandir began.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/security-on-ram-janmabhoomi-campus-in-ayodhya-reviewed-101640108673114.html
21-12-2021||Delhi||Delhi’s east civic body to participate in early warning system for dengue prevention||The East Delhi Municipal Corporation (EDMC) will participate in the Early Warning and Response System (EWARS) for dengue prevention and share the required data to help forecast dengue outbreaks.Under the National Programme on Climate Change and Human Health (NPCCHH) of Central government’s National Center for Disease Control (NCDC), a pilot project on EWARS against dengue is being readied through the WHO-TDR (Tropical Disease Research). EDMC commissioner Vikas Anand said that civic body will provide weekly data for the last five years of Shahdara (north) and Shahdara (south) zones under the EWARS. “The EWARS tool will utilise the past years’ weekly dengue data in analysing the various reasons of outbreak. Meteorological data (rainfall, humidity and temperature) will be also provided by the India Meteorological Department as the EWARS tool to help forecast dengue outbreaks. On the basis of the forecast, we’ll be able to make better preparations for dengue prevention and control. It’ll also help mitigate any chance of dengue outbreaks,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhis-east-civic-body-to-participate-in-early-warning-system-for-dengue-prevention-101640108614364.html
21-12-2021||Lucknow||UP ATS takes custody of key accused of Int’l human trafficking racket||The Anti-Terrorism Squad (ATS) of Uttar Pradesh police on Tuesday took the custody of Ratan Mandal, the key accused in international human trafficking racket involved in sending Bangladesh and Myanmar nationals to European, Gulf and South-east Asian countries on Indian identities, to interrogate him about the entire nexus involved in it, said senior police officials.The Lucknow ATS court has granted 12 days’ custody remand of Ratan Mandal, who was arrested from Nadia, West Bengal, on last Thursday and brought to Lucknow. The role of Ratan Mandal, a tour and travels agency operator, surfaced in the racket after the arrest of his brother Mithun Mandal from Varanasi on October 26 when he was taking along two Bangladeshi nationals to Delhi.A senior ATS official said the investigators believed that Ratan Mandal was the most important among the 20 people arrested so far in connection with their involvement in the racket. He said Mandal could reveal the identity of other key persons involved in the racket, including some people associated with airlines and other agencies related to immigration.The official said Mandal was the person who was in direct touch with a Bangladeshi national Saeed who is settled in South Africa and suspected to be kingpin of the racket. He said Ratan used to work and arrange things at the behest of Saeed. He said Saeed’s close aide Jahangir, who is also a Bangladeshi national, used to help illegal immigrants in crossing India-Bangladesh border illegally and Ratan used to prepare their Indian documents through his contacts in West Bengal. He said the traffickers helped Bangladeshi nationals get Hindu names and Indian passports by preparing their fake address proofs like Aadhaar and voter ID cards. He said the Bangladeshi nationals were later sent to different countries as Indian nationals.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/up-ats-takes-custody-of-key-accused-of-int-l-human-trafficking-racket-101640108613151.html
21-12-2021||Jaipur||Rajasthan BJP urges govt to compensate farmers facing crop loss amid cold wave||BJP Rajasthan president Satish Poonia has demanded compensation to farmers after assessment of damage to crops due to severe cold conditions in the state.Poonia wrote a letter to chief minister Ashok Gehlot in this regard.Due to severe cold conditions, farmers have suffered heavy losses due to damage of crops across the state, Poonia said.He urged the chief minister to conduct early girdawari for assessment of damage caused to the crops due to severe winter conditions, so that the farmers can get financial support at the time of crisis.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jaipur-news/rajasthan-bjp-urges-govt-to-compensate-farmers-facing-crop-loss-amid-cold-wave-101640108089400.html
21-12-2021||Lucknow||Teachers must contribute to growth of univs: UP Governor||Expressing concern over the downfall in research work at universities, governor Anandiben Patel said teachers who had been teaching at universities for 30 years or so could neither bring about any change nor contributed to the growth of universities. Besides, she also advocated more transparency in appointments and promotions in interest of students.“There are faculty members who have been at universities for last 30 years but have no attachment with the institutions they teach at. Most of the colleges are lagging behind in rankings and accreditation, including that by NAAC,” said the governor, who is also the chancellor of state universities, while addressing the 86th convocation of Dr Bhimrao Ambedkar University of Agra on Tuesday. She was also critical of delay in awarding of degrees and other problems faced by university students.“Why are so many degrees lying pending. Fake degrees are being traced and matter is sub judice for 5000 fake degrees. All this should stop and university officials should take a pledge that there will be no fake degrees at all,” the governor further said and ordered that no money should be charged from students for providing them their degrees. Warning those involved in unlawful activities, she said those found guilty will be punished. The governor also expressed concern over delay in accounting for day-to-day affairs. She said there were numerous files with her about similar complaints of irregularity. “Let there be committees constituted to avoid irregularities and responsibility be fixed of the one signing last and guilty should not be spared,” the governor said. She also favoured having happiness centres at colleges affiliated to universities where healthy dialogues could be held between students and teachers. “Students should have a positive mindset. Students today are more aware about technology and can be included along with teachers and officials in the committees constituted for university task. Universities should also explore methods of women empowerment as women are now performing well in all fields” the governor said.“Universities need to take up social issues and in Agra students can lend a day for cleanliness drive at Yamuna or for plantation once a month. University and colleges should adopt villages and assist in their growth and development. We need to cater to the requirements prescribed in new education policy for betterment of the society,” she added. Earlier, officiating vice chancellor of the university prof Alok Kumar Rai along with executive and academic councils welcomed the governor. Unlike in the past, this year the convocation functionb was held at JP auditorium on Khandari premises of Dr Bhimrao Ambedkar University of Agra.Deputy chief minister Dinesh Sharma, who is also the minister for higher education, was also there to welcome the governor. However, he did not attend the convocation as he had some other engagements. 
21-12-2021||Delhi||Delhi airport records lowest carbon emissions: Study||Delhi airport records the lowest carbon dioxide (CO2) emission among airports handling over 60 million passengers per year across the world, a study has found.The study by ‘Airport Tracker’, a new online tool by non-profit organisations International Council on Clean Transportation, Overseas Development Institute, and Transport & Environment, showed that Delhi airport releases 5.53 million tonnes of CO2 annually, which is nearly half of the emissions at Singapore’s Changi airport, South Korea’s Incheon Airport, and the Frankfurt and Hong Kong airports, each of which produce over 10 million tonnes of CO2 per annum.Delhi airport is followed by the Kuala Lumpur airport (5.83 million tonnes), Tokyo’s Haneda Airport (6.53 million tonnes) and Dallas’s Fort Worth airport (7 million tonnes).The study analysed CO2 emissions by aircraft and passenger-related movements at 1,300 largest global airports that account for over 99% of the global airline traffic.The airport operator, Delhi International Airport Limited (DIAL), said the airport has adopted the globally recognised Airport Council International’s (ACI) Airport Carbon Accreditation framework which helps airports to manage their greenhouse gases effectively. Among the measures taken to reduce CO2 emissions include the use of renewable energy through its 7.84 MW solar plant on the airside, usage of green building concepts, using low emission technologies and electric vehicles, among other. More recently, the airport has adopted a green taxiing device – the Taxibot -- which allows aircraft to be taken for taxiing without switching on the plane.As part of its expansion, Terminal-1 of the airport, which is being redeveloped, is also being built as per LEED green building standards -- a green rating system -- which includes efficient lighting systems and a double glassed façade. It is also developing an elevated Eastern Cross Taxiway (ECT), which will connect runway 29/11 to Terminal 1 for aircraft movement through a much shorter route, thereby reducing 55,000 tonnes of CO2 annually. DIAL had recently announced that the airport has set a target of achieving ‘net zero carbon emission’ by 2030.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-airport-records-lowest-carbon-emissionsstudy-101640107773140.html
21-12-2021||Mumbai||Fisherfolk occupy sea for the 11th time, refuse to allow Coastal Road work||Mumbai: Despite being warned of penal action by the Worli police on Monday, the protesting fisherfolk from Worli-Koliwada on Tuesday disrupted the construction of the Coastal Road project for the 11th time since September 20. Fisherfolk have previously stopped the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation’s (BMC) contractor from carrying out work on an interchange to connect the Coastal Road (CR) with the southern end of the Bandra-Worli Sea Link on September 20, October 14, 21, 29, November 1, 7, 20 and December 7.The Worli Police on Monday issued a notice to the protesting fisherfolk from Worli-Koliwada, under Section 49 of the Criminal Procedure Code, instructing them to “stop interfering” with the ongoing CR construction work being carried out by BMC.Tuesday’s standoff, which began around 8:30am, lasted until about 3:30pm when the police and contractor’s vessels left the construction site. Fisherfolk say they will continue to disrupt work if any attempts at resumption are made.Addressed to Nitesh Patil, secretary of the Worli-Koliwada Matsyavyavsay Sahakari Sangathan (a registered fish worker’s society), the notice read, “You and your colleagues are frequently disrupting the ongoing work of the coastal road project by carrying out fishing activities near Cleveland Bunder in violation of orders. In future, if you and your colleagues reunite and disrupt the work of the Coastal Road project and create law and order problems, you will be held fully responsible and will be prosecuted.”Notwithstanding these directions, however, at least 16 fishing boats and over two dozen fishermen on Tuesday morning once again convened at the site of the proposed construction and prevented BMC’s contractor from resuming their work on the interchange, which fishers say will permanently cut them off from their traditional fishing grounds. They were met with five tug boats and one passenger vessel belonging to the BMC contractor, and two boats belonging to the coastal police, which attempted to persuade them into allowing work to continue.Fisherfolk refused, however, saying that they will not accept any outcome to the conflict other than a redesign of the interchange. As per current design specifications, BMC has proposed to leave a gap of 60 metres between the interchange’s pillars. Maintaining that this distance is too little to allow safe passage for their boats, fishers have instead demanded a span of 200 metres under the structure. Nitesh Patil said that fisheries minister Aslam Sheikh had come to meet them last month and heard their problems. According to Patil, Sheikh had promised them a meeting with the chief minister and environment minister. “On this assurance, we stopped protesting and went back to our business. But now, without any sign of this meeting, we have received a police notice asking us to stop interfering with a government project due to law-and-order concerns. How else are we expected to voice our demands when no authority will acknowledge our concerns,” Patil said.Fisheries minister Aslam Sheikh could not be reached on Tuesday despite attempts. Iqbal Chahal, BMC commissioner, did not respond to our request for comment. However, an official in the BMC’s coastal roads department, anonymously said, “We will have to refer the matter to the state government and let them decide on the future course of action. The cost of just the construction equipment required for the interchange comes to about ₹4 crore every month. That’s a minimum loss of ₹8 crore that we have incurred due to these protests.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/fisherfolk-occupy-sea-for-the-11th-time-refuse-to-allow-coastal-road-work-101640106633138.html
21-12-2021||Lucknow||Students who missed exams due to pandemic can re-appear: AMU||Aligarh Muslim University (AMU) undergraduate and postgraduate students who missed their terminal semester examinations and graduating exams in the 2020-21 session due to the Covid pandemic can appear in their exams by submitting enclosed proforma applications at examination.coe@amuonline.ac.in by December 27, 2021.“This is a one-time opportunity in the wake of the Covid outbreak. The examination schedule will be announced in due course of time on the official website and the conditions for appearing in the graduating exams, as applicable in any particular course, will remain the same,” stated the notice of the office of the Controller of Examinations.It categorically added, “Students who have appeared, but failed to clear the examinations are not eligible”. Meanwhile, the dates for the registration for the 3rd-semester students admitted in the 2020-21 session has been extended till December 31, 2021.“Students can register on the university portal, www.oeps.amucontrollerexams.com. There is no need to submit the printout of the registration forms at university offices,” mentioned the official notice.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/students-who-missed-exams-due-to-pandemic-can-re-appear-amu-101640106393040.html
21-12-2021||Mumbai||HC asks state to specify statutory regime for cab aggregators||MUMBAI The Bombay high court (HC) on Monday directed the state government to file an affidavit specifying the statutory regime to be followed by application-based cab service providers such as Uber, along with the terms and conditions applicable to licenses issued under the Motor Vehicles Act, 1988, to such service providers. The HC also noted that the application of the Maharashtra City Taxi Rules, 2017 – that were framed to regulate app-based cab service providers – had been deferred and hence, the issue of securing licenses was pending.A division bench of chief justice Dipankar Datta and justice Makarand Karnik was hearing the public interest litigation (PIL) filed by advocate Savina Crasto, seeking directions to the state government to ensure that app-based cab service providers did not resort to harassing commuters and that there was a mechanism to address complaints against them.In her petition, Crasto submitted that while travelling in a cab booked through an app-based service provider in November 2020, the driver of the said cab stopped the vehicle in the middle of the journey claiming that there was a problem in the car and that she should cancel the trip. She did not want to be alone and in the middle of nowhere at night so she booked another vehicle and ended up paying more than what she did for the first vehicle. She could not even lodge a complaint in the matter as there was no mechanism to do so.On Monday, when the bench sought to know from the state the rules and regulations and licensing regimen in place for such service providers, additional government pleader Jyoti Chavan submitted that the rules had been framed in 2017 but after the service providers approached the HC, the state issued a statement that till the Khatua committee recommendations are considered, no coercive action will be taken against the service providers.Observing that in such a situation, the state would not be in a position to act against an aggregator even if he does not obtain a license although getting a license is mandatory under the 2017 Rules, the court directed the state to file an affidavit and also directed the respondents to file affidavits stating whether they had the requisite licenses. It posted hearing of the PIL to January 10.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/hc-asks-state-to-specify-statutory-regime-for-cab-aggregators-101640105912982.html
21-12-2021||Other||Ahead of panchayat polls, CM announces house-repair sops for rural Odisha||Rolling out a slew of sops to the electorate ahead of panchayat polls in Odisha, chief minister Naveen Patnaik on Tuesday announced financial assistance of ₹3,000 to every beneficiary of the Biju Pucca Ghar Yojana while ₹5000 would be given to people who have been left out the Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojana.“In view of the problems being faced by the poor, the state cabinet has taken a historic decision to provide an assistance of ₹3000 to the beneficiaries of Biju Pucca Ghar Yojana, Nirman Shramik Pucca Ghar Yojana and Pucca Ghar Yojana (Mining) for house repair. The cabinet has also decided to provide an assistance of ₹5000 for house repair to those who have failed to get a house under the Central housing scheme and are facing difficulties,” said Patnaik.“A house is an identity of a family and every person dreams of owning a house. Odisha is ravaged by cyclonic storms almost every year, hence, it has become pertinent for people to own a pucca shelter. Biju Babu had dreamt of a proper roof over every head in the state. To fulfil this dream of his, the first cabinet meeting in 2014 took the decision to convert every kutch house into a pucca one. BPGY was a step in this direction,” he said.Similarly, ₹5000 would be given to families who have applied for Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojana but are yet to be selected. The state government will spend around ₹1444 crore for the sops that would benefit 30 lakh families.The Biju Pucca Ghar Yojana was launched by the Odisha government in 2014-15 with a view to achieving the objective of converting all the kutcha houses to pucca ones. Like the Pradhan Manti Awas Yojana-Grameen, the beneficiaries of BPGY get ₹1.2 lakh and ₹1-3 lakh for non-Maoist and Maoist-affected areas.On Tuesday, the state government announced cash assistance of ₹1000 for the beneficiaries of the National Food Security Act and the State Food Security Scheme. The state government would spend ₹350 crore for the same. The government also announced raising the scholarship of Divyang students under Banishree Yojana. While Divyang students in classes 1-5 would get ₹400 as a scholarship, those in classes 6-10 would get ₹500.Panchayat polls are likely to be held in February next year and a determined BJD has pulled out all stops to woo the electorate. Since August it has started distributing Biju Swasthya Kalyan Yojana smart cards to over 95 lakh families in which the cardholders would get free medical treatment in private hospitals up to ₹5 lakh while the women would get free treatment up to ₹10 lakh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ahead-of-panchayat-polls-cm-announces-house-repair-sops-for-rural-odisha-101640105554296.html
21-12-2021||Mumbai||Job offers up by 40-45% across IITs, average salaries higher||Mumbai The pandemic pushed several sectors towards digitisation at a faster rate and hiring experts have touted this as one of the main reasons for an increase in the hiring of fresh talent, especially in the technology industry.The first phase of placements across the Indian Institutes of Technology (IITs) ended last week and most IITs have recorded a 40-45% increase in job offers received this year compared to last.In most cases, the total job offers received are higher than pre-pandemic years as well. At IIT Bombay, the first phase of placements ended on December 15 with 1,723 jobs offered to the batch. This is nearly 42% higher than the 1,128 job offers made last year and nearly 26.5% higher than job offers received in 2019. “This is an all-time high record of a number of offers in Phase-I of Placements at IIT Bombay. We are expecting some more offers in the coming days. Of the 1,723 offers received, 1,382 jobs have been accepted,” said a spokesperson for the placement cell of the institute. The highest salary for an international post offered to a student of IIT Bombay stands at USD 2.87 lakh (roughly ₹2.05 crores), whereas, the highest package for a domestic role stood at ₹1.68 crores per annum. Of the 1,500 students registered for placements at IIT Madras this year, 1,316 students received job offers (including pre-placement offers) in the first phase that ended on December 10—the institute stated that never before has 73% of the batch received job offers in the first phase. “This also includes 45 international offers that were received in phase one of placements, which is a record on its own. The quality of academic training and the overall development of students during the program are reflected in the first phase of placements,” said Prof C S Shankar Ram, Advisor (placement), IIT Madras.At IIT Delhi, the graduating batch has received 1,250 job offers this year, the highest ever. “The average compensation offered on campus this year has shown over 20% increase. Around 80% of the students who showed interest in availing of placement facilities in this phase have been recruited up to now. While the quantity of offers and hence the number of unique selections is at a record high, there has been over 45% increase in the number of offers received by the campus during this period over last year,” said a statement released by the institute recently.Similarly, IIT Roorkee received 1,243 job offers this year, the highest ever, of which 1,000 job offers were received in the first 84 hours itself. “We had received 1,000 offers in 84 hours and 1,200 offers in 12 days which earlier was achieved in two-and-a-half months. A total of 32 international job offers have been received this year out of which 31 were received in the first three days itself,” said a spokesperson for the institute’s placement team. Experts have pointed at a demand momentum accelerated by the digitisation of businesses as the main reason for this upward trend. “The current demand for technical talent is massive and we have never seen this kind of demand momentum—it is at an all-time high with customers rapidly accelerating their adoption of digital business model. This situation has led to a buoyant market with multiple opportunities for fresh talent,” said Girish Nandimath, Head HR, Talent Acquisition, Tata Consultancy Services, and added that TCS alone hired over 40,000 fresh graduates in the 2021 financial year and plans to hire another 35,000 by March 2022. Once again, high job offers came from core engineering sectors across campuses, followed by Information Technology, Analytics and Consulting sectors. The average salary also stayed above ₹25-28 lakh this year, especially in the IT, Finance and R& D sectors. “We welcomed recruiters hiring in new-age domains like artificial intelligence, big data and cloud solutions, design development for high volume manufacturing, machine learning, robotics etc. across core sectors in addition to the traditional profiles and this has pushed the overall job offers received this year,” said Anishya Madan, head (Office of Career Services), IIT Delhi.
21-12-2021||Lucknow||Markets in Lucknow light up for Christmas||Mouth-watering Awadhi cuisines are not the only thing that the old city serves it also serves as a one-stop destination for Christmas revellers hunting for fancy goodies and unique gifts for their loved ones. People who hail from the place say kababs, chats, Kashmiri chai and biryani is not the only USP of the old city as it is also famous for its seasonal markets. This year too, the markets here are decked up with Christmas decor and goodies.Despite the heavy losses, which the traders suffered last year due to the Covid pandemic, they are all ready to greet the Christmas revellers.Of the many markets, Mumtaz market tops the list. Though the market is located in the old city, it is new. People here said the market came into existence in 1975 and has fast emerged as one of the best places when it comes to the sale of Christmas decors. A few traders also claimed it to be at par with the famous Mohammed Ali Road in Mumbai and Sadar Bazaar in Delhi. “Our market is a blend of both the markets, as a few traders buy goods from Mumbai, while others source them from Delhi. Hence, our market serves bests of both the markets,” said AM Siddiqui, a trader, who owns a gift item shop at Mumtaz market.The market deals in king-size Christmas goods which include, six feet tall musical Santa, 12 feet high Christmas tree, massive paper stars, glass balls, plastic reindeers, candles and other items. The market is also famous for artificial flowers and artificial ornamental plants which are selling like hotcakes this season.It is followed by Gadbad Jhala market. There was a time when Gadbad Jhala — one of the oldest markets in the city, used to deal in imitation jewellery. Perhaps this is the reason which fetched the market its peculiar name as Gadbad Jhala more or less means all that glitters is not gold. But the market traders, over the years, have switched over to the Christmas decor business also, making the market the most sought out one during this season. Shops here are decked with glittering Christmas goodies, displayed well to attract customers. It hosts a wide range of paper made stars and an array of decorative items to suit the occasion. “We deal in small decorative items, from stars to frills, toffees and beautifully wrapped designer chocolates. It’s one of the best markets in town, and shops here start selling Christmas goods from December 10 onwards,” a shopkeeper said.Gunga Nawab Park is next in line. Unlike Mumtaz market and Gadbad Jhala, Gunga Nawab Park is best known among the lower budgeted revellers as the shops here deals more in small decorative items. It includes decorative flags and crapes, balloons and other goods. It deals in a good range of toffees, chocolates, decorative baskets and handbags. The traders here said the market is a seasonal market, which starts dealing in Christmas goods from December onwards. “Ours is a seasonal market, we sell Christmas goods only in December. After this, we will start dealing in Republic Day goods, followed by Holi,” said Muhammed Nasir, a show owner. He said the shops here generally cater to the schools and colleges which are willing to distribute merry goods among the students.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/markets-in-lucknow-light-up-for-christmas-101640104781112.html
21-12-2021||Other||Gorakhpur’s 200-year-old church a masterpiece of British Architecture||Gorakhpur: The bright yellow building of the 200-year-old Christ Church, close to the busy Collectorate, in the heart of Gorakhpur city, is a masterpiece of British Architecture. Due to its strong construction, it has rarely seen renovations since its inception in 1820 by then commissioner RM Bird.While the hall with a seating capacity of 200 people, looks majestic with thick, 22-foot-high pillars standing on each side, 15-foot-high wooden doors on each side, the pews, and pictures of Jesus Christ including a rare Belgium-made glass painting showing Christ carrying children in his arms, adds to the beauty of the well-ventilated Church. The central cylindrical shaped dome with a large cross atop it and a portico attracts visitors.Also, there used to be a big British-era mechanical clock fitted on the front of the dome, which later became dysfunctional and was replaced with a portrait of Christ.The two-acre campus with greenery all around and flowering plants makes the Church campus vibrant. The marble plaque inside the Church has an illustration of RM Bird who established it between 1820 and 1830 and Daniel Wilson, Bishop of Calcutta and metropolitan of India, who consecrated it on March 1, 1841. The plaque describes the theme of the church as ‘The rich and poor meet together. The Lord is the maker of them all.’ Moreover, the location of Church is believed to be an added advantage as this part of the city never experiences floods due to its comparative higher elevation.Those who are associated with the church claim that the building rarely underwent reconstruction since its inception 200 years ago and it is still so strong to last another 200 years. They say three parts of Church, hall, dome and portico were built in phases.“The Nawab of Oudh transferred this region to the East India Company in the 18 Century. The British built this church for their military officers and after independence it was opened to common people,” said Rev DR Lal, priest in-charge at the Church. He adds that Christ Church was the first church of Gorakhpur commissionery. The church is being run by the Church of North India (CNI).The Church is currently witnessing a week-long Christmas celebration programme under the supervision of the priest in-charge, treasurer Dr SK Lawrance and secretary Amar Joy Singh.- Abdul Jadid||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/gorakhpurs-200-year-old-church-a-masterpiece-of-british-architecture-101640104598667.html
21-12-2021||Pune||Ahead of assembly session, BJP gets aggressive on paper leak nexus||PUNE With Pune police exposing malpractices in the Teachers’ Eligibility Test (TET) after arresting two more persons, Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government has gone on the back foot amid the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) raising the pitch a day before the Maharashtra winter assembly session is to start in Mumbai from today (Wednesday).With the fresh arrest, the recruitment examination nexus in TET and other exams are getting thicker amid allegations from BJP that the links are much wider.On Tuesday, the leader of opposition Devendra Fadnavis said his party will raise the issue of malpractices in various exams including TET, health department and Maharashtra Housing & Area Development Authority (Mhada) as the links are much deeper. Fadnavis also reiterated the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) probe to investigate the racket.The BJP also questioned why GA Software Private Limited, a firm entrusted in 2021 to conduct TET and Mhada exams, was appointed even as it was previously blacklisted by the Fadnavis government. At the same time, Nyasa Communications, which was given the responsibility to hold a health department exam, was empanelled in April 2021 by the MVA government.“All these malpractices in various exams could not have been possible without the help of those sitting in government. We are going to expose this in the state assembly session starting Wednesday,” said BJP spokesperson Keshav Upadhye.The deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar, however, said police are probing the cases impartially and everything will be revealed. “There is no need for a CBI probe. The state police are probing the cases impartially and the truth will emerge,” said Pawar.The Pune police, probing malpractices in all three exams, have so far arrested 25 persons including Maharashtra state council of examination (MSCE) commissioner Tukaram Supe and ex-commissioner Sukhdev Dere. The police have also arrested officials of GA software.Following the arrest, state education department suspended Supe and has ordered inquiry headed by additional principal secretary to probe irregularities.The malpractices have shocked the aspirants appearing for these exams.Talking about the issue one of the senior officials from the state education department on anonymity said, “Currently, all the senior officials from across the departments in education are in fear as most of them are involved in some or the other recruitment or exams related corrupt practices. They are trying to disconnect themselves from any of the recruitment exam related works from the last few days, and if the investigation goes deeper then more names will come out in it.”The Pune cyber police were investigating the alleged Mhada recruitment exam paper leakage case when during the investigation the malpractices involved in the TET exams came to light. Accordingly, Supe was called for inquiry initially and after a day-long questioning, he was arrested in the night. Till now six people have been arrested in the case and investigation is still going on.Similarly, the other two cases of state public health department and Mhada recruitment exam paper leakage are going on parallel to this investigation. In both the recruitment examinations, the exams were been cancelled at the eleventh hour when it was suspected that the paper has been leaked before the examination. The Pune cyber police have lodged a first information report (FIR) in the state public health department case and its investigation is underway.“There has been a major disappointment among the aspirants who are preparing for various state recruitment examinations from last many years and now it is revealed that recruitment is done only through corrupt practices. We have repeatedly raised the issue, earlier no one was listening to us during the state health department exam paper leakage issue and now when all these scams are opening up the state government should take the moral responsibility and reconduct the entire exams,” said Rahul Kawthekar, an aspirant who had given a written complaint with some of the proofs about state public health department recruitment exam paper leakage to the Pune cyber police.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/ahead-of-assembly-session-bjp-gets-aggressive-on-paper-leak-nexus-101640104592868.html
21-12-2021||Lucknow||Prayagraj: MNNIT inks MoU with Bengaluru’s ITI Ltd||A memorandum of understanding (MoU) has been signed between Motilal Nehru National Institute of Technology (MNNIT), Allahabad, and ITI Limited, Bengaluru, on Tuesday in the presence of MNNIT director Prof Rajeev Tripathi and GM-HR MD Dwivedi of ITI Ltd. The ceremony was held online. The MoU objectives include undertaking joint collaborative research projects in cutting edge technology, organising international workshops, conferences, training programmes, FDPs and certification-based courses etc, informed Prof Tripathi. There will be an exchange of faculty members, students, research scholars, with students of MNNIT getting an opportunity for an internship at ITI Ltd, he added. “Both, MNNIT and ITI Ltd will share their expertise and resources to carry out research and development in the emerging areas of technologies like 5G, IoT, AI, Robotics and optical communication systems. Also, a centre of excellence will be established for collaborative work and to train the trainers of ITI Ltd internal resource persons,” said the MNNIT director. The exchange of MoU was attended by MNNIT’s Prof Geetika, dean (RGIA), Prof Rakesh Narain, Prof In-charge, training and placement, Prof RK Singh, dean Academics, Prof RK Nagaria, head, electronics and communication engineering department, Prof Rajesh Gupta, head, electrical engineering department and Prof Shivesh Sharma, officiating Registrar and Arun Prakash, nodal officer, MoU. Those from ITI Ltd included Brig (retd) Girish Suri, GM-HR, Prakash Chandra Basak, AGM-HR, Harihar Singh, DGM-HR (Corporate)], Shashikant Pawar, DGM-HR (Corporate) among others.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/prayagraj-mnnit-inks-mou-with-bengaluru-s-iti-ltd-101640104533458.html
21-12-2021||Lucknow||UP pushes for cleaner rivers through drain-tapping||The Uttar Pradesh (UP) government has initiated a major purification of Yamuna river, Jal Nigam officials said. According to them, 20 drains have been tapped in Mathura, at a cost of ₹460.45 crore. They said a new sewage treatment plant (STP) of 30 MLD (million litres daily) has been set up. “Along with rejuvenating the rivers, the problem of sewerage falling in them is being solved with a state-of-the-art method,” an official said. Not just Mathura, but across the state, in places like Moradabad, Kasganj and Mirzapur too, various efforts have been initiated in this regard, officials said. “The state government is constructing sewage treatment plants with state-of-the-art methods. Solar energy is being used with minimum consumption of electricity. At the same time, the use of new methods of sewer treatment has proved effective,” said Anurag Srivastava, principal secretary, Namami Gange and Rural Water Supply department. He said the Ramganga sewerage scheme in Moradabad has brought a big change under the Namami Gange project. “There (Moradabad) 13 drains have been stopped from falling into the river at a cost of ₹330.05 crore and an STP of 58 MLD has been set up. Faecal Sludge Treatment Plant (FSTP) of 10 KLD (kilolitres per day) has been made at Chunar Nagar of Mirzapur at a cost of ₹2.70 crore. In Firozabad, two big drains have been tapped at a cost of Rs.51.06 crore. In Kasganj, at a cost of ₹76.73 crore, construction of 58 MLD STPs has been completed along with tapping of 2 drains,” Srivastava said. He also mentioned that the sewage from these treatment plants is discharged into the rivers after being purified. Due to this, the amount of pollution in the rivers has been reduced. The work of cleaning silt in the rivers with machines and boats is also being done at a fast pace.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/up-pushes-for-cleaner-rivers-through-draintapping-101640104052792.html
21-12-2021||Other||Unidentified animal injures another villager, Lakhimpur residents alert||A day after the killing of a two-year-old girl, Roma, in Chakdaha village, in Dhaurahra forest range of the Dudhwa buffer zone, on Sunday night, the unidentified wild animal attacked another villager in the same village on Monday night and injured his face, while he was sleeping.When Nanhku raised an alarm and shouted for help, the wild animal fled the spot and targeted another villager, Jaykishan. However, owing to the alert family and a burning fire, the carnivore ran into the neighbouring fields.On Sunday night, a wild animal had attacked and killed two-year-old Roma in Chakdaha village when she was sleeping with her mother.The unidentified animal dragged away the girl into the neighbouring fields. Her mutilated body was later recovered.It is yet to be ascertained if it was the same wild animal that attacked villagers on Monday night which had killed the girl or some other animal. However, forest authorities have ruled out the animal to be a leopard as described by the villagers, given the nature of attacks. They suspect the animal to be a wolf.Forest teams have been deployed to monitor the movements of wild animals while villagers have been advised to be on an alert.Deputy director, Dudhwa buffer zone and DFO North Kheri, Sundaresha, who confirmed the killing of the child by some wild animal on Sunday night, said, “the identity of the errant carnivore was yet to be ascertained.”“Owing to heavy human movement on the spot and the fields, the animal could not be identified by its pugmarks, however, the nature of attack and circumstances indicate the animal to be a wolf,” he added.He said “reports from the range officer had been called and appropriate relief will be awarded to the aggrieved family.”Incidentally, the area where the incident took place is close to Katarniaghat sanctuary forests and movement of leopards, wolves and other wild animals here is frequently reported.- Deo Kant Pandey||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/unidentified-animal-injures-another-villager-lakhimpur-residents-alert-101640103454125.html
21-12-2021||Chandigarh||Have a way with words? Must be a cruciverbalist||A friend called me up one morning and said at the outset, “I’ve come across a new word: Cruciverbalist. I couldn’t get it, so she repeated, “It is cruci and verbalist, and that is you!” “Cruciverbalist? Never heard of it before. And what has it to do with me?” I wondered. Before she could explain it, my mind was running fast, ‘cruci’ is generally associated with crucifying or crucifixion and verbalist stands for a person who uses words skilfully. Does she mean I crucify or irritate people with my verbal skills or verbosity? I tried to deconstruct the word myself. “It means a crossword aficionado, and that is you,” she said with a laugh. Oh my God! I felt like being honoured with a great title. Such a grandiloquent word for such a simple activity. Yes, I am a die-hard cruciverbalist. When and how I got obsessed with words, I can’t recollect; but it has stayed with me for decades now. Perhaps, while preparing for competitive exams in my younger days, solving anagrams and other word puzzles for mental ability tests, I caught this fever, chronic and incurable, and highly contagious, which got stronger with every passing day. Now nothing can miss my eye which has even a semblance of a crossword puzzle or a word game, and in any form whether it’s in a newspaper or magazine or on an online app. The very sight of the crossword gives me the itch to lay my hands on it as soon as possible. Equipped with my weaponry, a pencil, an eraser, and a sharpener that occupies a permanent place in the handbag as well as at my bedside, I take it head-on, like a bull by its horns. My day starts with the morning cuppa and the two newspapers that we subscribe to. After finishing with my favourite articles; the next half an hour is booked for the crossword puzzles before I can think of breakfast for the family! If my hosts find their newspaper assaulted, tampered with, and marked with pencil, they should take it as a part of the price they have to pay for having me as their guest. Once, doing the crossword while travelling in a bus, a young college boy sitting next to me peeped over the newspaper, thought for some time, scribbled something in his notebook, counted on his fingers, and said very politely, “Auntie, I think 5-across should be ‘chopper’ for helicopter.” See! This is how it gets contagious. But one can’t be 100% successful in solving these puzzles. Let me confess that as mobiles are so handy these days, sometimes I do check the right words online. I may not come out as an honest player, but I come across so many new words, some of which I had never heard before. Am I sounding like a cruci-verbalist? No....no, I’m just a cruciverbalist! njkaur1953@gmail.com The writer is a Patiala-based retired associate professor in English||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/have-a-way-with-words-must-be-a-cruciverbalist-101640103452712.html
21-12-2021||Pune||Recruitment scams give nightmare to job aspirants, many return to villages||PUNE Professor Ganesh Pise’s dream of getting a job shattered when he was made aware of the Teachers Eligibility Test (TET) scam. He had also appeared for other recruitment exams. Like Pise, thousands of aspirants are demoralised and have lost faith in the recruitment process. While some students have lost hope and stopped preparing for such exams, there are others who have left Pune and gone back to their villages.Pise who hails from Satara said, “I have been preparing for TET and other state government exams for the past five years. I reappeared for exams in which I failed to qualify. With all these malpractices coming into picture, I have lost trust and will look for a job opportunity in a private firm.”Another aspirant Mandar Tikone who applied for the Maharashtra Housing and Area Development Authority (MHADA) recruitment exam which got cancelled said, “Students are either involved in leaking the paper or other malpractices, all we want is a transparent procedure. The unearthing of these malpractices is disappointing. We come from small villages with a big dream of a secure government job. Some have even committed suicide after going through depression as they have not been selected in these exams,”Talking about the students’ depression and ongoing recruitment exam scams, Kuldeep Ambekar president of the Students Helping Hand organisation said, “The daily new revelations in the recruitment scams and crores of rupees been looted by these government officials is disturbing as a student and we have repeatedly demanded to have CID inquiry of these cases. Students are depressed and many of them have started returning back to their home towns.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/recruitment-scams-give-nightmare-to-job-aspirants-many-return-to-villages-101640103392977.html
21-12-2021||Pune||How officers and private firm manipulated results of 500 candidates in Teacher eligibility test exam||PUNE The Pune police have allegedly uncovered manipulation of results and exam sheets of 550-600 teaching position aspirants who could not clear the Teacher eligibility test (TET) that was held on July 15, 2018 and advertised in 2017. According to Police officials, the manipulation was done in exchange of ₹50,000-60,000 from each candidate and has garnered around ₹5 crore, said officials.  Therefore, a fourth case was registered in the ongoing uncovering of malpractices in the state government examination process and former Maharashtra state council of examination (MSCE) commissioner Sukhdev Dere, 61, a resident of Gunjalwadi in Sangamner area of Ahmednagar, along with former project manager of GA Software Ashwin Kumar, 41, a resident of Harbour Layout, Kalyan Nagar in Bengaluru were arrested. They were remanded to seven days in police custody by Judicial Magistrate First Class SG Dolare with Public prosecutor Vijaysinh Jadhav and Defence lawyer Pranay Lanjile appearing for both the accused. “The people from inside the department as well as GA software and agents were involved. The OMR sheets were manipulated. If they were not able to manipulate OMR sheets, they would ask the candidates who paid to keep the sheet blank and then filled it out later. So far, we believe 500 sheets were manipulated but investigation is on. Prima facie the financial involvement of ₹5 crore is estimated,” said Amitabh Gupta, commissioner of Pune police. “The Pune police acted on a fresh complaint and arrested two persons. There may be an involvement of more and police are investigating it,” Gupta added.“I (Dere) retired in August 31, 2018. The exam result was declared after my retirement. How can I possibly interfere once I had retired? There is no recovery done from me and I have not absconded. If I had done anything wrong, I could have run away when the first case was registered,” said Advocate Lanjile while seeking magisterial custody, instead of police custody, for Dere in court. However, prosecutor claimed that Dere was retained as a consultant by GA Software which allowed him enough access to manipulate the result.A case under Sections 406, 409, 420, 465, 467, 468, and 34 of Indian Penal Code along with Section 66(d) of Information Technology Act, and Sections 7 and 8 has been registered.“There was a complaint regarding this in 2018 as well. And one candidate had also lodged a case but it did not reach a logical conclusion back then. But we are investigating every possible angle now,” said Commissioner Gupta. While Supe is involved in the manipulation of TET 2019-20, Dere is involved in the manipulation of TET 2018. However, GA Software company is common in both the incidents even though the director of the company changed. Therefore, it is pertinent to note that it is not only TET but multiple other exams including Class 5 and Class 8 teacher grant exam, typing and shorthand exam, ECB scholarship exam, interdepartmental recruitment exam, DLED and multiple such exams by the education department are conducted by outsourced companies. “First, TET is conducted. Those who qualify are granted a certificate which allows them to appear for Teacher Aptitude and Intelligence Test (TAIT). GA Software was in the process of getting the contract for TAIT exam as well. The manipulation was in the TET exam. In the 2018 exam, some unqualified candidates have already been issued the certificates. In the 2020 case, the certificates have not been issued yet,” said Bhagyashree Navatake, deputy commissioner of police, cyber-crime and economic offence wing of Pune police. “The software companies are same and so are the officials. It is the agents who enable the process. So far, the Harkal brothers have turned out to be the agents who were at the forefront,” said Commissioner Gupta. Subsequently, the candidates who made the list based on merit suffered. Moreover, there were candidates who paid the money and did not get into the manipulated list either. “At least 17-18 students have approached us so far,” said DCP Navatake.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/how-officers-and-private-firm-manipulated-results-of-500-candidates-in-teacher-eligibility-test-exam-101640103157045.html
21-12-2021||Patna||Cold wave prevails in Bihar, Gaya records 5°C||Residents are unlikely to get any respite from chilly winter as cold wave condition is likely to prevail in the state for the next 24 hours, said officials of Patna Meteorological Centre on Tuesday.Several places in the state observed cold wave conditions as the mercury plunged to below 10°C for two consecutive days.As per the daily bulletin issued on Tuesday, Gaya remained the coldest in the state with the lowest minimum temperature of 5.2°C, which was 4 degrees below the corresponding normal. Patna recorded a minimum temperature of 7.6°C, Bhagalpur 9.5°C, Purnea 9.7°C and Darbhanga 9.6°C. The MeT Centre has predicted for cold day and cold wave condition for Wednesday.Explaining meteorological mechanism, weatherman Zeeshan Ansari, said, “A cyclonic circulation over Bihar and adjoining East Uttar Pradesh is 1.5 km to 3.1 km above mean sea level. Besides, north-westerly and northerly winds are prevailing over the state up to 0.9km above mean sea level.”“Shallow to moderate fog is likely to prevail in the state. No significant change in night temperature is expected in the coming days. However, gradual rise in temperature by 2°C to 3°C is expected after three days.” The MeT Centre has issued a yellow-colour warning for cold wave conditions which is likely to prevail at one or two places over Buxar, Kaimur, Aurangabad, Gaya and Nawada in the next 24 hours while cold day condition which is likely over Purnea, Kishanganj, Madhubani and Darbhanga.As per India Meteorological Department (IMD), a cold wave in plains is declared when the minimum temperature is 10°C or below and/or is 4.5 degrees lesser than the season’s normal for two consecutive days while a cold day is declared when the minimum temperature falls under 10°C or there is a departure of 4.5°C to 6.4°C in maximum temperature.Meanwhile, Patna District Magistrate Chandra Shekhar Singh inspected night shelters and distributed blankets among the poor.“We are arranged for public bonfires at 74 places in Patna and adjoining areas. Divisional officers have been asked to distribute blankets among needy and arrange for public bonfires as per need”, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/cold-wave-prevails-in-bihar-gaya-records-5c-101640102674903.html
21-12-2021||Ranchi||Jharkhand assembly clears Bill against mob lynching||The Jharkhand assembly on Tuesday cleared the Prevention of Mob Violence and Mob Lynching Bill, 2021, which provides for jail terms ranging from three years to life imprisonment and monetary fine up to ₹25 lakh against those involved in mob lynching that could lead to injury or death of any individual.The Bill, which was opposed by the opposition Bhartiya Janata Party (BJP) in its present form with demand to send it to the select committee, also provides for punishment for “conspiracy or abetment or attempt to lynch”; “obstructing legal process”; “dissemination of offensive material” and “enforcing a hostile environment”, besides compensation for the victims as per existing scheme of the state government.With passage of the Bill, Jharkhand becomes the third state after West Bengal and Rajasthan, to have put in place such a law against the crime. A law to this effect was an electoral promise of all three constituents of the ruling JMM-Congress-RJD combine in 2019 assembly polls. Mob lynching was a major poll issue in wake of a series of such incidents in Jharkhand over the past few years.In the incident on June 17, 2019, which made national headlines, 24-year-old Tabrez Ansari was allegedly tied to a pole and beaten mercilessly by a mob at Dhatkidih village in Seraikela Kharsawan district on suspicion of theft. Ansari was purportedly seen in a video being forced to chant “Jai Shri Ram” and “Jai Hanuman”. On June 22, he had succumbed to injuries in the judicial custody.“The law has been made to ensure people live in peace, harmony and brotherhood. It will now ensure people live and work in the state without any sense of fear,” chief minister Hemant Soren told reporters after the Bill was passed in the assembly.In total, 12 amendments were moved by legislators, with maximum of nine coming from BJP members, one each from AJSU Party, CPI (ML) and one independent legislator. However, all of these were turned down during discussion on the Bill with a voice vote. BJP legislators walked out of the House in protest after their proposed amendments were turned down.BJP legislator Amit Mandal, who moved five amendments, said the government seems to have brought the Bill in haste. “Officials who have framed the draft of the Bill seemed to have invented new definition of mob. They describe mob as group of two or more persons. They should check the definition of mob in Oxford dictionary. Also, immense arbitrary power is being given to the police and district magistrate that could be misused even for trivial issues even against political opponents,” Mandal said in the House, while demanding the Bill be sent to the select committee for ironing out the draft.Another BJP legislator Anant Ojha, who too brought an amendment motion, said the law has been made for appeasement of a particular community. “The way the Bill was brought and passed in the House, it is clear that it has been done as per this government’s appeasement policy. The law has been brought to divert attention of this government from its failures,” said Ojha. Parliamentary affairs minister Alamgir Alam, however, defended the provisions saying the Bill has been brought in light of the Supreme Court direction over the issue.Major lynching cases September 19, 2019: A septuagenarian man was beaten to death by a mob on suspicion of being child lifter in Sahibganj district.July 22, 2019: Four people in their 60s, including two women, were killed by a mob for alleged “witchcraft” at Siskari in Gumla district.June 17, 2019: An alleged thief, Tabrez Ansari, was beaten by a mob in Saraiela-Kharsawan district, Four days later, he died in hospital. April 10, 2019: A tribal man was lynched to death and three others were injured after they were beaten by a mob in the state’s Gumla district.June 29, 2017: A mob lynched a trader accused of transporting beef in his vehicle in Ramgarh district.March 18, 2016: Killing of two Muslim men herding cattle to a local market and hanging from a tree in Jharkhand’s Latehar district.
21-12-2021||Patna||Govt issues fresh schedule for recruitment of 91,000 teachers||Bihar’s education department has issued fresh counselling dates for the recruitment of teachers for the third stage of the sixth phase, officials said.The government had earlier postponed the school teachers’ recruitment schedule, by issuing a notification on July 29, till further orders in view of the panchayat elections. Now, with the mukhiya and panchayat samiti heads scheduled to take their oaths on January 3, the department has issued the fresh dates.While thethird stagecounseling under urban bodies will be held on January 17, 18, and 19, counselling at the block level will be held on December 22 , 23 and 25. The counselling at the panchayat level will be held on January 28. The merit list will be uploaded on the concerned district’s web portal of the National informatics Centre (NIC). Two phases had already been completed prior to the panchayat polls.The department has clearly stated that in case of complaints of any irregularities, it will be the responsibility of the district Education officer to report it to the concerned district magistrate, recommend cancellation of counselling within 24 hours, and action against the recruiting agency by the competent authority.Earlier, the department had to postpone counselling in 400 recruiting agencies at the panchayat level following detection of irregularities in preparation of merit lists in connivance with members of the counselling units and locals, and FIRs were registered in Gayaghat and Paru blocks of Muzaffarpur. Education minister Vijay Kumar Choudhary has directed the department officials for a detailed inquiry against those involved in irregularities and take strong action so that transparency could be fully maintained in the counselling and recruitment process.The government has to carry out around 91,000 recruitments in elementary schools and after that, another 30,000 plus teachers would be appointed in secondary and higher schools. All the documents will be verified before issuing appointment letters to avoid past mistakes when appointments landed in the Patna high court over alleged forgery of documents.The government has already issued notification for the appointment of physical training teachers on a fixed salary of ₹8,000 on 8,386 posts in elementary schools. After clearance of the reservation roster, the schedule for recruitment will be released by the directorate of primary education. All schools having more than 100 students will get one physical training teacher. Over 3,500 candidates who had qualified for the competitive exam organised by the Bihar school examination board in 2019 are still awaiting their appointment. Education minister Vijay Kumar Choudhary said that the seventh phase of recruitment would commence after the sixth, as it would also add the carry forward vacancies of the sixth. “For the sixth phase, all the appointment letters will be issued together after verification to remove the controversy over seniority once and for all,” he added.
21-12-2021||Other||Cabinet meet at Valmikinagar clears pvt investment of ₹447 cr||In a bid to boost industrialisation in the state, Bihar’s cabinet on Tuesday approved private investments worth ₹447.27 crore, officials said. These decisions were taken at the meeting of cabinet, headed by chief minister Nitish Kumar, held at Valmikinagar, a tourist destination located about 330 km north of state capital Patna. A total of 13 agenda items were approved by the cabinet.Among the projects approved is a plant for carbonated soft drinks, juice, fruit beverages and packaged drinking water and units for ethanol animal feed and Cogen power plants. “The two investments are expected to generate employment for 597 skilled and unskilled labourers,” said officials. Meanwhile,contrary to the expectations, the cabinet skipped taking call on long anticipated demand of locals for separate district status for Bagaha.Earlier in the day, chief minister Nitish Kumar, who reached Valmikinagar for the last cabinet meeting of the year, inaugurated the boat safari and enjoyed sailing along with his cabinet colleagues in the old Triveni canal.He also inspected the site of the proposed conventional centre, to be constructed at a cost of ₹121 crore over about 25 acres of land with a provision for meeting hall (capacity of 500 seats) and a guest house of 102 rooms.“We are confident that the place, with beautiful view of the water, forest and mountains, would attract tourists. With the construction of convention centre, the tourism will receive a further boost. While professional groups can hold meeting, the convention centre would offer accommodation to those visiting the place on a personal trip,” the chief minister told reporters after the inspection of proposed convention centre.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/cabinet-meet-at-valmikinagar-clears-pvt-investment-of-rs-447-cr-101640101952956.html
21-12-2021||Patna||Bihar govt set to auction six sick industrial units in Jharkhand||The Bihar State Credit and Investment Corporation (BICICO), a state government undertaking, has decided to auction the assets of the six companies located in Jharkhand in “as is where is” basis for their failure to repay loans, official said.The interested parties or individuals have been asked to bid for the companies by January 11 next year. These companies had taken loans from the state government before the bifurcation of Bihar in 2000 but failed to pay back the amount.BICICO managing director Dilip Kumar said that the companies had turned sick and refused to pay the loan despite repeated reminders, forcing the corporation to auction their properties. “The Bihar government had to keep the assets and liabilities of these companies, as Jharkhand declined to take the ownership of the amount,” Kumar said.The companies to be auctioned are M/S Mineral Associated Industries (Private) Limited at Godda, Narsingh Cement Company at Giridih, Rishi Cement Company at Ramgarh, Vam Engineers (Pvt) Ltd at Jasidih, Singhwahini Cement (P) Ltd, Ramgarh, and M/s Micro Metal Sen & Company (P) Ltd, Jasidih. These companies together have the liability of ₹212 crore from different financial institutions of the Bihar government.Officials of the BICICO said that they could get somewhere around ₹117 crore by auctioning assets of these companies. Three of the firms — Narsingh Cement Company, Rishi Cement Company, and Singhwahini Cement (P) Ltd — were engaged in cement production, while Micro Metal Sen & Company was an ancillary to the steel factory and Vam Engineers was set up to build the LPG cylinders.BICICO has also decided to auction the assets of an Aurangabad-based firm, Magadh Small Coking Coal Ltd, which used to produce smokeless coal.Rishi Cement company had 10 acres of freehold land while Singhwahini Cement had a campus of 3.57 acres. Other firms have the premises ranging from 1 to 5 acre leased land.
21-12-2021||Mumbai||11 new Omicron cases in state take tally to 65||MUMBAI Maharashtra reported 11 new cases of Omicron on Tuesday, taking the state’s tally to 65.Of these 11 cases, four were detected at Mumbai airport surveillance screening, while one each was reported in Pimpri Chinchwad, Osmanabad and Navi Mumbai area.Of the eight people found at Mumbai airport, one each is from Kerala, Gujarat and Thane while the rest five are Mumbai residents. There are two children below the age of 18 years in this group. All the patients except the two children are vaccinated and either asymptomatic or mildly symptomatic.34 infected patients have been discharged following negative RT-PCR tests.State surveillance officer Dr Pradeep Awate said, “We are studying the Omicron cases in South Africa as well as in United Kingdom (UK) and reached the conclusion that the virus is less virulent in nature. Even here, a majority of the 65 cases detected are asymptomatic or mildly symptomatic.”According to a report issued by the state government, Mumbai now has the most number of Omicron cases in the state with 30 followed by Pimpri-Chinchwad with 12, Pune with 10. The rest of the cases are three each in Satara and Osmanabad, two in Kalyan-Dombivli and one each in Buldhana, Nagpur, Latur and Vasai-Virar.On Tuesday, Maharashtra added 825 new Covid-19 cases, taking its tally to 66,50,965. It also reported 14 fatalities due to Covid-19, pushing the death toll to 1,41,367. The active cases in the state stood at 7,111 in which Mumbai leads with 2,159 active cases followed by Pune and Thane at 1,854 and 1,020 respectively. The death toll stood at 1,41,367 with Pune leading with 19,769 followed by Mumbai with 16,366 and Thane with 11,587.Mumbai added 312 new Covid cases and one death, taking its tally to 7,67,553 and death toll to 16,366.The weekly positivity rate of the Covid-19 cases of seven districts in Maharashtra is above the state average of 0.82 %. These include Pune (1.75%), Sangli (1.19%), Solapur (1.17%), Palghar (1.16%), Satara (1.13%), Nashik (1.06%) and Ahmednagar (1.03%).
21-12-2021||Dehradun||Dehradun couple suspected of Omicron after coming in contact with variant positive relatives in Delhi||Dehradun district magistrate R Rajesh Kumar said the couple's apartment has been declared a micro-containment zone and their samples have been sent for genome sequencing as well.As many as two people in Uttarakhand's capital Dehradun are suspected to have been infected with the Omicron variant of the coronavirus, district magistrate R Rajesh Kumar told news agency ANI on Tuesday.The couple from the northern hill state came in contact with their relatives in Delhi, who have tested positive for the Omicron variant.“A Covid-positive couple in Dehradun is Omicron suspected, after returning from meeting their Omicron positive relatives in Delhi with a travel history to Qatar,” Kumar was quoted as saying by ANI.Also Read | Delhi sees yet another Covid-19 death, logs 102 new cases as Omicron spreadsKumar said the samples of the Dehradun couple have been sent for genome sequencing and the apartment where they live has been declared a micro-containment zone.India's Omicron tally climbed to 213 on Tuesday, after Odisha and Maharashtra reported fresh cases of the new coronavirus variant. Two men in Odisha, who recently returned from Nigeria and Qatar respectively, tested positive for the latest strain.Meanwhile, as many as 11 more cases have been detected in Maharashtra, taking the western state's tally to 65.With 54 infections detected so far, Delhi follows Maharashtra in leading the cumulative tally of India's Omicron cases. Karnataka, Rajasthan and Telangana are the three other states that fall in the category of top five states and UTs most hit by the Omicron variant.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/dehradun-news/couple-suspected-of-omicron-after-meeting-variant-positive-relatives-in-delhi-101640095067340.html
21-12-2021||Pune||Parents’ association welcome decision on payment of DFRC members||PUNE In a government resolution (GR) issued on Tuesday, the payment structure for members of the District Fee Resolution Committee (DFRC) has been decided. The committee is responsible for dealing with the grievances of parents. Several parents over the year have registered their grievances related to fee hikes in private schools. Even though the move is appreciated by the parents’ association, they have questioned why the government has been delaying the smooth functioning of DFRC so far.According to the GR, a review committee was established as per the notification issued on February 20 this year and followed by that DFRC committee was established as per the notification of June 7, 2021.In the resolution, the payment for chairman and non-governmental members has been mentioned.“Review committee should focus on resolving each matter in a maximum of two meetings. Whereas the DFRC should resolve each matter in a maximum of three meetings,” states the GR.Speaking about the GR, Jayshree Deshpande, president of Pune division of All India Parents, Students and Teachers Association (AIPSTA), said that why it took the government so many months to publish the GR.“This shows that the government is not serious about the grievances of parents. There should be more awareness about DFRC among parents who have wards in private schools. Many parents face the issues of fee hikes but they don’t know whom to approach for grievances. The government should spread awareness about DFRC and its function,” said Deshpande.Sharing a similar concern, Prashant Khande, national president of AIPSTA, said that the government has taken three months to decide the payment of DFRC members.“If the government takes so long, then where should parents go if meetings are not held by DFRC. There are parents from two to three schools who are going to the DFRC and their issues are pending. For the last three months, the meeting was not taken. There are 147 parents from one Pune-based school who have approached with their grievances in September this year. And so far, we have not received any other date. Such incidents should not happen as parents are suffering for so many days,” said Khande.Get in touch*The DFRC is functional at five out of eight divisions that include Mumbai, Pune, Nashik, Nagpur and Aurangabad. A state-level review committee will also be located in Mumbai.*For Pune, the DFRC will be located at the office of the Deputy Director of Education in Camp. Parents and schools can reach at dydepune@gmail.com as well.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/parents-association-welcome-decision-on-payment-of-dfrc-members-101640099252885.html
21-12-2021||Lucknow||UP’s daughters won’t let previous govts come back to power: Modi||PRAYAGRAJ Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday asserted that the daughters of Uttar Pradesh had decided not to let the previous governments come back to power and said he was confident that “nothing could drag the new UP back to darkness.” The PM was addressing around 2.73 lakh women beneficiaries of various government schemes during a programme at Prayagraj’s Parade ground where he transferred ₹1,000 crore to the beneficiaries of Kanya Sumangala, BC-Sakhi and Antyodaya schemes. The event was aimed at empowering women at the grassroots level by providing them necessary skills, incentives and resources. “Five years back, roads of UP had mafiaraj and criminals even held sway in the government. Due to this, women of UP were the biggest sufferers. Mothers and daughters were unable to move around freely, including going to schools or colleges,” said Modi.“They could not even report crimes at police stations or say anything as there were phone calls in favour of criminals. However, the government of Yogi Adityanath has sent these criminals to their rightful place (read jails),” the PM emphasised. The PM said: “Now, UP is secure and full of opportunities. I am confident that when we have the blessings of our mothers and daughters, no one can push UP back into darkness. Let us take a pledge from the sacred land of Prayagraj that our state will move ahead and touch new heights,” he added. Highlighting the works done for the uplift of women, the PM stated that the Union cabinet had taken a decision to increase the age of marriage of women from 18 years to 21 years. “We are making efforts to make this happen as the women want that they should get time to pursue their studies, to get equal opportunities. But some people are troubled by this decision,” he said in a veiled attack on the opposition. Meanwhile, Union cabinet minister for women and child development Smriti Irani on Tuesday introduced the Prohibition of Child Marriage (Amendment) Bill, 2021 in Lok Sabha. The Bill seeks to raise the age of marriage of women from 18 years to 21 years. Earlier, two Samajwadi Party MPs, ST Hasan and Shafiqur Rahman Barq, had slammed the government for bringing the bill to increase the marriage age for women.During the event, the PM transferred ₹1,000 crore online into the accounts of 1.60 lakh women self-help groups (SHGs), which benefitted over 16 lakh rural women of UP, helping them to be self-reliant and financially independent. This transfer included funds under the Deendayal Antyodaya Yojana, with 80,000 SHGs receiving community investment fund (CIF) of ₹1.10 lakh per SHG and 60,000 SHGs receiving revolving fund of ₹15,000 per SHG. The PM also remotely made an online transfer of ₹4,000 into the accounts of 20,000 banking correspondent-Sakhis (BC-Sakhis) as the first month’s stipend. When BC-Sakhis commence work as providers of doorstep financial services at the grassroots level, they are paid a stipend of ₹4,000 for six months, so that they get stabilised in their work and then start earning through commission on transactions. Besides, Modi transferred an amount of over ₹20 crore to more than 1 lakh beneficiaries under the Mukhya Mantri Kanya Sumangala Scheme. The scheme provides conditional cash transfer to a girl child at different stages of life. The total transfer is ₹15,000 per beneficiary. He said most of the beneficiaries of welfare schemes were those girls who didn’t even have accounts until some time ago. “But now, they have the power of digital banking. The daughters of UP have decided that they won’t let the previous governments come back to power,” added the PM. The central government had launched the ‘Beti Bachao, Beti Padhao’ campaign to end female foeticide in the country. As a result of this, the number of daughters increased in many states, said Modi. The PM also laid the foundation stone for 202 supplementary nutrition (take home ration) manufacturing units in 43 districts of UP. Funded by self-help groups, these units would be constructed at a cost of approximately ₹1 crore per unit. Under the Integrated Child Development Scheme (ICDS), these units will supply supplementary nutrition to pregnant women, lactating mothers, adolescent girls and children in 600 development blocks of UP. Rural women will be employed at these plants (each plant will supply 70 metric tonnes of nutritious food every month)Before coming to the dais, the Prime Minister, along with UP CM Yogi Adityanath, interacted with the women beneficiaries of welfare schemes, self help groups (SHGs) including banking correspondent-sakhis. Others present at the event included Union minister of state (ministry of consumer affairs, food and public distribution) Sadhvi Niranjan Jyoti, Union minister of state (ministry of commerce and industry) Anupriya Patel besides UP deputy CM Keshav Prasad Maurya, UP cabinet ministers Rajendra Pratap Singh, Sidharth Nath Singh, Nand Gopal Gupta, Mahendra Singh and others. Double engine govt working to empower daughters: YogiUP chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Tuesday said that the double engine government was working relentlessly to empower daughters of the state, without any discrimination.He said the honour that the country’s women were waiting for since independence was given to them after 2014. “The UP government has done the work of giving respect to every woman of the state. The result of the work done by PM Modi to change the attitude towards half the population is seen by all,” he said. 
21-12-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra reports 11 new Omicron cases, 8 from Mumbai||Maharashtra detected 11 new cases of the Omicron variant of the coronavirus on Tuesday, which have now taken the state’s tally to 65, according to health officials.With the latest Omicron cases in Maharashtra, India’s tally of such infections has gone up to 213.Eight Omicron patients were found at the Mumbai airport during surveillance and one each from Pimpri Chinchwad, Osmanabad and Navi Mumbai areas, officials said.They also said that out of the 65 Omicron patients, 34 have been discharged after a negative RT-PCR report.Also read | Do existing Covid-19 vaccines work on Omicron? Govt's replyThe cases of the Omicron variant of coronavirus have been detected across 13 states and UTs in India so far out of which 77 patients have recovered or migrated, the Union ministry of health and family welfare said earlier on Tuesday. Among other regions, Delhi has recorded 54 cases of Omicron variant, Telangana registered 20, Karnataka 19, Rajasthan 18, Kerala 15 and Gujarat 14 cases, the health ministry said.Also read | 'All of us have a date with Omicron': Scientists predict what happens next with the new coronavirus variantMeanwhile, the Centre asked state governments to be proactive and on the lookout for surges of the Omicron variant after cases.Also watch| 'Cancel events NOT life...': How WHO chief warned against festive fervorUnion health secretary Rajesh Bhushan said in his letter to states that they could take containment measures, including night curfews and allow fewer people at offices and on public transport, if a surge is reported.States have been allowed to impose restrictions if the rate of new infections reached 10 per cent or higher in a week or 40 per cent of oxygen or ICU beds were occupied. Bhushan told states to impose such measures even if the surge was not that high given the increased transmissibility of the Omicron variant."Keeping in mind the higher transmissibility of Omicron, States/UTs (Union territories) can take containment measures and restrictions even before these thresholds are reached," he said in his letter to state governments.Also read | EXPLAINER: Booster shots key to fight Omicron variant, lot still to learn"Kindly activate the War rooms/EOCs (Emergency Operation Centre) and keep analysing all trends and surges, no matter how small and keep taking proactive action at the district/local level,” he added.There have been no Omicron deaths reported so far and data shows patients either fully recovered or were discharged in less than 40% of cases.Union health minister Mansukh Mandaviya told Parliament on Monday that 80 per cent of Omicron cases were asymptomatic. "We are keeping an eye on the variant and in coming days, we will monitor its effects," Mandaviya said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-reports-11-new-omicron-cases-8-from-mumbai-101640096986984.html
21-12-2021||Mumbai||Vashi teen Omicron positive, travelled from Hyd to Mumbai via road to avoid quarantine||Navi Mumbai A 19-year-old Vashi resident, who returned from Kenya, one of the high-risk countries in mid-December and landed at Hyderabad airport, tested positive with the Omicron variant on December 20. He travelled to Mumbai via road to avoid quarantine at the Mumbai airport, as per the civic officials. The patient is asymptomatic and is at present admitted to MGM Hospital in Sanpada. The Navi Mumbai Municipal Corporation is testing all the residents in his societies and tracing his journey from Hyderabad to Mumbai. The state till Monday had 54 Omicron cases, out of which two were from Kalyan Dombivli Municipal Corporation in Thane district. Dr Pramod Patil, medical health officer, said, “The patient is a 19-year-old, who had travelled from Kenya to Hyderabad. His RT-PCR was done at Hyderabad airport, however, he travelled to Mumbai by road in a cab instead of taking a flight. His report came positive on the 18th. He went to Nanavati Hospital and gave a repeat swab. On Sunday, his mother got a call from Hyderabad authorities that he is Omicron positive,” The antigen test of all his close contacts is negative and the RT-PCR report of the same is awaited. His mother and brother are isolated as well in seperate rooms. A separate isolation ward has been made in MGM, Sanpada for the Omicron patients. The four-storeyed building where he resides has four flats on each floor at Sector 14, Vashi, it has been sealed for ten days. Around 450 people reside in the society of the patient and till now around 350 have been tested and all are negative. People who were out for work would be tested once back later in the evening, informed NMMC officials. “Neither Hyderabad officials informed the corporation nor did the patient himself. The patient then in order to cross-check, went to Nanavati Hospital and took a test wherein he was found to be positive again. On December 20, Hyderabad officials got in touch with the patient’s family and informed that he was Omicron positive. Somehow the news was leaked in the area and someone informed the corporation over an anonymous call,” one of the officials from health department of NMMC, said. “The Hyderabad officials said they had no idea where the patient was and got through him after three days of trying to get in touch with him. They then sent us his Omicron report and then we immediately isolated him and his family members. We are now also trying trace the places which he visited in these many days while travelling to Navi Mumbai by alerting the respective states,” the officer added. Meanwhile, a spokesperson from GMR Hyderabad International Airport Ltd, from where the patient left without the notice of the airport authorities said, “Airport’s responsibility is only to provide the space to conduct the tests. The whole procedure of testing, isolation is the responsibility of the government. Till December 18, the protocol was to let go of people after their RT-PCR test and later inform the result on phone. Now, the protocol is changed and the person tested is not allowed to go home till the results are out. While all the people from high-risk countries are tested. People from other countries are randomly selected by the testing authorities.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/vashi-teen-omicron-positive-travelled-from-hyd-to-mumbai-via-road-to-avoid-quarantine-101640096912355.html
21-12-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai wakes up to its coldest morning of the season||Mumbai At 18.6 degrees Celsius, Mumbai woke up to its coldest morning of the season on Tuesday. Down from 19.2 degrees Celsius, a day prior. The city’s lowest minimum temperature of the month was recorded on December 14, when the mercury dipped to 18.9 degrees Celsius. The lowest minimum in November stood at 19.8 degrees. Officials, however, said that prevailing temperatures are still warmer than usual in the city. Meteorologist with the India Meteorological Department’s (IMD) regional forecasting centre in Mumbai informed, “Minimum temperature on Tuesday was still one degree more than normal. It has been a warmer December overall this year. Now that proper cold wave conditions have set in the north and central India, we will see cooler temperatures in Mumbai as well.” Mumbai’s lowest minimum temperature recorded in December 2020 was 15 degrees Celsius, on the 29th of the month. As per IMD’s seven-day forecast for Mumbai, the minimum nighttime temperature over the next week is expected to fall further, to about 18 degrees Celsius by December 25. The daytime maximum temperature is also expected to fall, touching 31 degrees Celsius around the same time. This may be followed by slight warming before the month ends, as cold wave-like conditions in central India abate. The city’s air quality index (AQI), meanwhile, remained in the ‘poor’ category at 262, as per the System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting And Research (SAFAR)’s network of monitoring stations. Officials cautioned that pollution levels will spike again as temperatures fall. “It is unlikely that the AQI will show sustained improvement for the next couple of weeks. Strong winds may result in temporary relief, but as the northerly winds bring down the temperature there will be more fog, and accumulation of pollutants particularly during the early morning hours,” explained Dr Gufran Beig, project director, SAFAR.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-wakes-up-to-its-coldest-morning-of-the-season-101640094571685.html
21-12-2021||Mumbai||Dharavi reports zero cases 14 times till December 20, 57% of eligible population vaccinated||Mumbai Dharavi, one of the biggest slum clusters in India, has reported zero Covid cases 14 times in the month of December and continuously for six days between December 15 and 20, according to the data available with Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC). On Tuesday, Dharavi reported just one case taking the tally to 7,179. Due to the looming Omicron threat, the BMC has started conducting random tests at Dharavi. According to the data, Dharavi last reported four cases on December 14 and thereafter, it reported zero cases from December 15 to December 20. Between December 1 to 20, Dharavi reported zero cases for a total of 14 times. Kiran Dighavkar, the assistant municipal commissioner of the BMC’s G North ward, under which Dharavi falls, said, “When one Omicron case was detected there were only two contacts who were tested but they turned negative. That was a testing period for us and we are certain that even if there is a surge, we will be able to handle it.”According to BMC officials, there are a few things that helped them keep cases down in Dharavi that include sanitisation of public toilets and aggressive testing followed by vaccination. The BMC officials said that they have also received a good response via Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) to ensure vaccination of more and more people in Dharavi. Dighavkar added, “The main challenge in Dharavi is knowing its exact population considering there is a lot of floating population and many residents are not documented as residents of Dharavi due to the presence of unorganised sector on a large scale, the exact population can only be guessed. But as per census data, 57% of the eligible population is fully vaccinated.”According to the data of BMC, Dharavi has reported 7,179 cases of Covid since April 2020 and over 400 deaths. There are currently 11 active cases in Dharavi. There is a total of nine free testing centres and on average 1,000 citizens from Dharavi are vaccinated daily.Meanwhile, BMC officials added that in the coming days, they are working on a lucrative initiative in which citizens from Dharavi will get certain benefits for getting vaccinated.Box:Zero cases daily from December 15 to December 20.Dharavi reported zero cases 14 times between December 1 and 20.Dharavi’s population as per census 2011: 0.625 millionEligible for vaccination: 0.487 million57% of the eligible population is fully vaccinatedTotal cases of Covid-19 reported since April 2020: 7,179Deaths: Over 400Active cases: 11||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/dharavi-reports-zero-cases-14-times-till-december-20-57-of-eligible-population-vaccinated-101640093972237.html
21-12-2021||Delhi||Delhi sees yet another Covid-19 death, logs 102 new cases as Omicron spreads||Delhi continued to maintain its spike in daily cases of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) after reporting 102 fresh infections on Tuesday, which have taken its cumulative tally to 14,42,390, according to the health bulletin data.Tuesday's figures are slightly higher than Monday's when the city logged 91 Covid-19 cases. On Sunday, Delhi recorded the biggest single-day jump in coronavirus infections in six months after 107 people tested positive, the health bulletin data showed.Though Tuesday's single-day count of Covid-19 cases may have dropped marginally from Sunday, with yet another fatality due to the infection, the national capital's death toll rose to 25,102. This was the fourth death due to Covid-19 reported in December in the national capital.Meanwhile, with as many as 75 fresh recoveries, the total number of patients who recovered from the virus in Delhi has gone up to 14,16,731, the health bulletin data also showed. On Monday, 100 new recoveries were logged, which was double the number recorded on Sunday.Also Read | Omicron could be behind Delhi's Covid cases spike; Feb, March ‘convenient’ for virus: AIIMS professorAs far as vaccination against coronavirus disease is concerned, the national capital has so far administered jabs to 2,49,91,475, of which, 1,31,180 were inoculated in the last 24 hours.The consistent surge in daily Covid-19 cases in Delhi is concerning given the city, along with Maharashtra, accounts for the most number of Omicron infections in India. With 54 cases each detected in Delhi and Maharashtra, India's overall tally of the new variant of concern on Tuesday reached 202.As many as 13 states and Union territories (UTs) have confirmed cases of the new variant of the coronavirus in India so far. Odisha became the latest entry in the list after two men, who recently returned from Nigeria and Qatar respectively, tested positive for the strain.On Monday, Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal said all fresh Covid-19 cases in the city will be sent for genome sequencing. Kejriwal said his government would strengthen the home isolation system as in a majority of the new Covid-19 cases, patients may not “require hospitalisation.”He also urged the Centre to allow the administration of Covid-19 vaccine booster jabs in Delhi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-sees-yet-another-covid-19-death-logs-102-new-cases-as-omicron-spreads-101640090279421.html
21-12-2021||Mumbai||Antilia explosive scare: HC says nothing to show Naresh Gor was aware of conspiracy||There is nothing on record to show that Naresh Gor was aware of the conspiracy to park an explosive-laden vehicle on Carmichael Road, near industrialist Mukesh Ambani’s residence, the Bombay high court observed on Tuesday while paving the way for his release on bail. “There is nothing to show that Respondent No.1 (Gor) was aware or had knowledge of the conspiracy to park the explosive-laden vehicle on Carmichael road,” said the division bench of justice Nitin Jamdar and justice Sarang Kotwal while rejecting the appeal filed by National Investigation Agency (NIA) challenging the November 20 order of the special court, granting him bail. “He only knew that Sachin Vaze demanded five SIM cards through his employer. This information also was provided to him by his employer himself,” the bench said further, adding that there was “no connection” between Gor and the prime accused Sachin Vaze. On February 25, a Mahindra Scorpio was found abandoned near Antilia, the South Mumbai residence of industrialist Mukesh Ambani, with 20 loose gelatine sticks and a threatening note. Vaze, originally in charge of the investigation of the case, was removed after reports emerged of his links with Hiran, the owner of the vehicle who was in possession of the SUV and had reported it stolen on February 17, 2021. Hiran was found dead in a creek on March 5. The NIA took over the explosives case on March 8 and the murder case on March 24. Vaze was named the main accused in both and was arrested by the NIA on March 13. However, Gor was already under arrest by then. The Maharashtra Anti-Terrorism Squad (ATS), which initially investigated the case, arrested him on March 21, alleging that the cricket bookie and employee of a South Mumbai club had provided five SIM cards – procured on the basis of fake documents - to Vaze for executing his nefarious designs. One of the SIM cards was used by arrested police inspector Sunil Mane to make a WhatsApp call to Hiran on March 4. According to the NIA, Hiran was smothered and his body was dumped in a creek after he stepped out of his Thane residence to meet Mane at a spot on Ghodbunder Road. On November 20, a special NIA court granted Gor bail after noticing that there was no evidence to suggest he had knowledge of the conspiracy hatched by Vaze. The NIA had, however, carried the matter in appeal before the high court claiming that the very fact that Gor illegally procured SIM cards for Vaze, itself indicated that he was part of the larger conspiracy. Regarding Hiran’s murder, the high court said even according to the NIA, the plan was hatched by Vaze when the Thane-based trader refused to own up the responsibility of planting the explosive-laden SUV outside Antilia. “The prosecution case itself is that the conspiracy to commit murder of Mansukh Hiran was hatched after Sachin Vaze realized that he was not willing to co-operate with him,” said the court. “Thus, when the SIM cards were procured by Respondent No.1 on 20th February 2021 and were handed over to Vinayak Shinde on 21st February 2021, the plan to commit murder of Mansukh Hiran was not even hatched by Sachin Vaze and, therefore, it would be far fetched to attribute knowledge of this plan to Respondent No.1 when he procured these SIM cards.”...||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/antilia-explosive-scare-hc-says-nothing-to-show-naresh-gor-was-aware-of-conspiracy-101640093433111.html
21-12-2021||Mumbai||BMC nod must for any gatherings of more than 200 people||Mumbai Ahead of Christmas and New Year celebrations, Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) has tightened rules regarding gatherings, parties, weddings, and other get-togethers in commercial and public places. In an order issued on Monday, BMC has now made it mandatory for organisers or owners of commercial premises hosting gatherings to take prior written permission from the respective ward officers for any gatherings of more than 200 people.BMC will also take action as per the Disaster Management Act 2005, and the Indian Penal Code, 1860, in case these rules are violated. These rules come into effect on December 20, 2021. As per the Maharashtra government notification of November 27, permission from the local authorities is required in case of gatherings of over 1,000 people.The order states, “I, Dr IS Chahal, Commissioner of Municipal Corporation of Greater Mumbai, am satisfied that Greater Mumbai continues to be threatened by the spread of Covid-19 virus (especially the Omicron variant) and it is imperative to continue with the measures to prevent and contain the spread of the virus, with a view to prevent danger to human life, health or safety, and to break the chain of transmission of the virus effectively.” According to this BMC order, any programmes, functions, gatherings, weddings, parties, or meetings that may be social, political, or religious in nature, people up to 50% of the capacity of the place are allowed to gather in case of enclosed spaces, and people up to 25% of capacity are allowed to gather in case of open to air spaces. This is on the condition that a 6ft by 6ft distance is maintained among every individual gathered.However, “if any owner, organiser, hotelier, claim the space can accommodate over 200 people, at either 50% capacity for enclosed spaces, or 25% capacity for open to air spaces, even after maintaining the mandatory 6 ft distance, then prior written permission from the assistant commissioner should be taken for the event,” BMC said on Tuesday.If the total number of people present at any gathering exceeds 200, the assistant commissioner of the local ward will send representatives to supervise - as observers - the gatherings to ensure Covid-appropriate behaviour is followed.According to the penalties prescribed by the government of Maharashtra, individuals not following Covid-appropriate behaviour (CAB) will be fined ₹500 for each instance. If a default of CAB is found on the part of any individual on the premises of an organisation, that is supposed to impose CAB, the organisations will also be fined ₹10,000 along with the individual fine. If organisations are noted to be repeat defaulters, then they will be closed till the notification of Covid as a disaster remains in force. If any organisation itself fails to follow CAB, it will be fined ₹50,000 per instance and will be asked to remain closed if they are repeat defaulters.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/bmc-nod-must-for-any-gatherings-of-more-than-200-people-101640091992177.html
21-12-2021||Mumbai||Citizens oppose de-reservation of green spaces for Thane-Borivali twin-tunnels||Mumbai Twice over the last week, citizens have written to the Thane Municipal Corporation (TMC) objecting to the de-reservation of 25 hectares of parks and green spaces, for the purpose of constructing the Thane-Borivali twin-tunnels. TMC had, on November 22, issued a public notice seeking comments and objections to the same. The project, being executed by the Mumbai Metropolitan Region Development Authority (MMRDA), is expected to commence construction work in March 2022.As per TMC’s public notice, three land parcels measuring 17 hectares, 6ha and 2.6 ha, are proposed to be removed from the categories of ‘green zone’, ‘zoological park’ and ‘residential park’ respectively, and included in the Thane city development plan under a modified land-use category of ‘Twin Tunnel (underground)’.The move has drawn the ire of environmentalists and groups. In a representation to the Thane municipal commissioner on Monday, activist Zoru Bhatena wrote, “The very purpose of an underground tunnel is to protect the environment at ground/surface level; and constructing an underground tunnel can never affect the land use at ground level. This proposal seeking change in the land reservation (at the surface) for an underground tunnel has been issued with the complete non-application of mind.”“If you fail to reject this proposal for modification (deletion) of 25.60 Ha of parks & green ones, we shall have no option but to take this matter before the Hon’ble Courts and show the malafide conduct of the Thane Municipal Corporation in deserving parks and green zones for completely fallacious reasons,” Bhatena’s letter continues.In a similar representation on December 17, Mumbai-based NGO Conservation Action Trust (CAT) recommended carrying out a comprehensive environmental and traffic study for the project and putting the details out in public domain before sanctioning any modifications in the Thane development plan for the same.“We request you not to consider the proposed modification in DP for the tunnel. Sanjay Gandhi National Park is a unique protected area in Mumbai city. The forest land of SGNP is being lost at a rapid pace. Construction of new roads will lead to induced road traffic. Instead of proposing new roads, the authorities need to strengthen the existing road system and improvise on the public transport system. The proposed project needs to be rejected at this stage itself.”Prasad Khale, senior conservation officer, CAT, also wrote that the necessity of this project is “highly questionable” given the multiple development pressures on the ecology of Sanjay Gandhi National Park. “In addition to this tunnel, there is a 4.7km tunnel proposed from Film City, Goregaon to Amar Nagar, Goregaon, Construction of elevated road and widening of Ghodbunder Road, Thane, Cable Car ropeway from Thane to Borivali, Proposed Delhi Mumbai Freight Corridor passing between National Park and Tungareshwar Wildlife Sanctuary, Metro Car shed, and Diversion of Forest land for creating parking lot,” Khale wrote.Hindustan Times has reached out Dr Vipin Sharma, Thane municipal commissioner, for a comment. This story will be updated when he responds.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/citizens-oppose-de-reservation-of-green-spaces-for-thane-borivali-twintunnels-101640091453503.html
21-12-2021||Patna||Bihar Health Minister launches E-clinic for the first time in the state||On Saturday, Health Minister Mangal Pandey launched ZiffyHealth's E-Clinic to improve health services in the state.As per the innovative start-up's plan, they will be initially having 100 E-clinics. Following that, its number will be gradually increased over the next 18 months. With the help of E-clinics, one crore citizens' electronic health records will be collected over the next year (Health Kiosks). ZiffyHealth introduced this cutting-edge technology and innovations to Bihar.The Health Minister said at the launch ceremony that this is an amazing initiative. Natives of Bihar are earning fame all over the world. But what makes this story unique is that after achieving fame, they want to work for the development of their motherland. Such individuals are making commendable efforts to improve Bihar's healthcare system. Bihar is abode to ZiffyHealth's CEO and Founders.This organisation has also set a goal of creating Electronic Health Records (EHR) for people. I was surprised to learn that doctors, thousands of kilometres away would be able to hear and see in real-time the heartbeat, blood pressure, sugar level, and oxygen level of patients living in Bihar districts. People will no longer need to travel to major cities for medical treatment as a result of this. ZiffyHealth has my best wishes. We will help wherever we are needed.Captain Indira Jha, Chief Executive Officer of ZiffyHealth and a resident of Jhanjharpur, Madhubani, welcomed all guests to the programme. He stated that he belongs to Bihar and will leave no stone unturned to improve the Healthcare situation in the state. One of his brothers died as a result of mild diarrhoea. Since then, he has wanted to do something to improve Bihar's healthcare system. There is one doctor for every 28 thousand people in Bihar, compared to one doctor for every 11 thousand people nationally. Only 20% of the population is served by 80% of the doctors. With E-clinics and health kiosks, this ratio will improve. People will be able to access high-quality healthcare close to their homes.Kasturi Jha, Yogesh Thakur (Co-founders), Dr Ajay Kumar (Bihar President, IMA), Anand Kishor, Chairman, Smart City Patna, Balmurgan D, CEO of Jeevika, Vijay Prakash, CEO of Atal Innovation Mission, and Prof. NK Arora, AIIMS were all present at the launching ceremony.The Start-up's aim is to leverage the technology to deliver Effective Digital Healthcare for city dwellers, as its IoT integrated solution entirely bridges the gap between online and offline consulting. It also offers a three-way video consultation feature, which is beneficial to our younger generation who want to look after their parents who live in different cities.To aid the patient or the doctor, a third person may be introduced into the session. The stay-at-home arrangement during COVID forced parents to be separated from their children who worked or studied in various places. With the help of ZiffyHealth, either the patient's parent or guardian can tune in to the consultation and learn about their loved one's health difficulties.The goal is to offer each person inexpensive and reliable healthcare and deliver a superior customer journey through optimizing the time and cost. Live Q-management, Voice Clinical Note, Integrated Diagnostic and Pharmacy with OPD management are a few tools, which are the key differentiating features for ZiffyHealth.The E-clinic processCaptain Indira Jha stated that there will be multiple E-clinics in each district at affiliated pharmacy shops. At the e-clinic, a health kiosk will be installed. The patient will take a seat in front of the medical kiosk. Specialist doctors sitting far away will be able to know a patient's heartbeat, oxygen level, blood pressure, sugar levels, and other vital signs in real-time thanks to sophisticated equipment.If the doctor believes that additional diagnostics are required, the associated laboratory will collect the patient's sample and, after examination, will send the report to the doctor. The doctor will prescribe the medication based on the results of the tests, which will be made available to the pharmacy. The patient will then go to the pharmacy and purchase the medication. In this manner, the patient will receive treatment from renowned doctors close to his home.ZiffyTech is a Big Data-Hadoop-based disruptive force healthcare start-up that has been incubated and is being accelerated at Atal Innovation Mission-Pinnacle (An offshoot of NITI Ayog). It is dedicated to making healthcare more accessible and affordable by deploying cutting-edge technology and AI-powered innovative processes.ZiffyHealth has developed a customised, comprehensive, and secure EHR in accordance with international standards (HL-7; according to the Indian Health Ministry Gazette), which is technologically sophisticated enough to provide trend analysis and is automatically made available to doctors once an appointment is scheduled.The ZiffyHealth Platform converts all vitals and lab test results into an HL7 format Electronic Health Record. The main goal of EHR adoption is to improve treatment quality by reducing medical errors, providing an effective communication channel, sharing information among healthcare practitioners, and collecting health data for educational and research purposes.For Healthcare Innovation, it was featured in the NITI Aayog Coffee Table magazine. This organisation has advanced to the semi-finals of the Ayushman Bharat Grand Challenge. The company's Co-founder has been named one of the top 100 finalists for the "Women Transforming Award".||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/bihar-health-minister-launches-e-clinic-for-the-first-time-in-the-state-101640087129856.html
21-12-2021||Bhopal||Bill to recover public property damages from rioters to be tabled in MP assembly||Madhya Pradesh government will introduce a Bill in the State Assembly, which allows the recovery of damages to public and private properties during strikes, protests, communal riots, or any congregation of people, from perpetrators, informed the state's Home Minister Narottam Mishra.The Bill is likely to be tabled today or tomorrow during the winter session of the Madhya Pradesh Assembly that commenced today."The Bill that seeks to recover from protestors and rioters the damages caused to public properties during violent protests, strikes and communal riots, would be introduced in the Assembly either on December 21 or December 22," Mishra told ANI.The Bill was approved by the Madhya Pradesh cabinet last week in a meeting chaired by chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan where it gave its nod to the proposed draft of Madhya Pradesh Lok Evam Niji Sampati Ka Nuksan Nivaran Evam Nusksani Ki Vasuli (Redressal and Recovery of Damages to Public and Private Properties) Bill 2021.The Bill is likely to be on the same lines as 'Uttar Pradesh Recovery of Damages to Public and Private Property Ordinance, 2020'.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bhopal-news/bill-to-recover-public-property-damages-from-rioters-to-be-tabled-in-mp-assembly-101640087901468.html
21-12-2021||Ranchi||Jharkhand petrol pumps demand VAT reduction, observe strike||Around 1,400 petrol pumps across Jharkhand remained closed on Tuesday, demanding reduction in Value Added Tax (VAT), their association said.The strike evoked an overwhelming response as all the petrol pumps in the state remained shut since morning, said Jharkhand Petroleum Dealers' Association (JPDA) general secretary Sharad Dudani."We were left with no option but to go on strike as our demand to reduce VAT from current 22 per cent to 17 per cent on petrol and diesel, as well as clearance of outstanding dues of government institutions fell on deaf ears," he told PTI.Several petrol pumps in the state, particularly those located along the national highways, were incurring losses as diesel and petrol were costlier in Jharkhand as compared to neighbouring Bihar, Odisha, West Bengal and UP, he said.Truckers and other customers were buying fuel from pumps situated in the border areas of neighbouring states due to lower prices, which was causing revenue losses to the state exchequer and also affecting the business of pumps in Jharkhand, Dudani said.He alleged that the government was not willing to talk to the dealers over the issues.Besides, around ₹15 crore is yet to be cleared by the government for fuel purchases, he said.The strike inconvenienced the people of the state as all the petrol pumps were shut. Many motorists who visited the pumps to fill tanks had to return empty-handed, affecting normal lives. PTI CORR SOM SOM||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ranchi-news/jharkhand-petrol-pumps-demand-vat-reduction-observe-strike-101640087810910.html
21-12-2021||Bangalore||Belagavi job fair: TCS, Wipro Byjus among others to take part||TCS, Wipro, HCL, Byjus and Toyota would be among more than 40 companies to take part in a job fair at a college here on December 23, which would be inaugurated by Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai, a Karnataka Minister said.The Minister for Higher Education, IT-BT and Skill Development Dr C N Ashwath Narayan said candidates who have completed BE, B Tech., M Tech., Diploma and ITI can participate in the fair. They should have Aadhaar card, educational certificate, marks card (both original and photocopy), two passport size photographs and a minimum of five resumes with them. There would be no entry fee. HP, Narayana Group, UTL, Ola, Tata Communications, Tata Business Hub Ltd, Jasmin Infotech, would be among the companies that would participate in the fair, he said. For those selected on Dec 23, the second round of interviews will be conducted on Dec 24 and for those not selected, suitable training on imparting skill sets will be planned, the minister said. He also also said interested candidates should register on https:killconnect.kaushalakar.com/app/jobfair and upload their bio-data to ksdc.recruitment@gmail.com. For further information, candidates can contact 82778 95931.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/belagavi-job-fair-tcs-wipro-byjus-among-others-to-take-part-101640086912474.html
21-12-2021||Bangalore||No New Year celebration in public, only jabbed can visit clubs: Karnataka widens virus curbs||Karnataka chief minister Basavaraj Bommai on Tuesday said curbs will be in place on public celebrations ahead of New Year.Bommai said only celebrations at clubs and restaurants will be permitted with 50 per cent seating capacity, but special features such as disc-jockeying (DJ) events will not be allowed.“Full vaccination is mandatory. These restrictions will be in effect from December 30, 2021, and January 2, 2022,” he was quoted as saying by news agency ANI.
21-12-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra constitutes SIT to probe land grab of religious places||After a series of complaints of the land grab of religious places, the Maharashtra government has constituted a Special Investigation Team (SIT) to probe these cases, officials said.The state has also instructed the SIT to lodge complaints against the accused involved in such malpractices.Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) leader and Maharashtra minister Nawab Malik, cited a land scam in Beed district in central Maharashtra where 300 acres of temple land was allegedly grabbed with the connivance of the local BJP leaders.“This scan is happening from 2017, hence we have constituted an SIT to probe such matters,” said Malik. “We have received complaints from across the state and an SIT will probe such cases to stop this land grab,” he added.In the case of Beed, he said that 300 acres of land in seven temples have been grabbed with the active connivance of BJP leaders like Suresh Dhas and Bhimrao Dhonde along with deputy collectors.He said that the scam pertained to 513 acres of religious land of which 300 acres belonged to the temples while the remaining 215 acres belonged to Maszids.“The BJP claims to uphold Hindu cause but here we are seeing their leaders grabbing land belonging to the temples of Lord Ram and Lord Vithal. This only exposes their hypocrisy.” “Both BJP leaders like Suresh Dhas and Bhimrao Dhonde are involved in this scam,” alleged Malik.“We have also written to the Enforcement Directorate (ED) as it is a classic case of money laundering,” he added.Suresh Dhas dismissed the allegation as unfortunate and warned of a defamation case against Malik. “I have assets worth ₹4 crore only and am ready to give it entirely to Malik. It is unfortunate that a senior minister like Nawab Malik is indulging in such mudslinging. He has a history of levelling baseless allegations against people. I will answer these allegations by filing a defamation case against him,” said Dhas.Dhonde’s reaction is awaited.
21-12-2021||Kolkata||Mamata Banerjee’s TMC pulls off landslide win in Kolkata municipal elections||KOLKATA: West Bengal’s ruling Trinamool Congress (TMC) swept the Kolkata Municipal Corporation (KMC) polls by winning 134 out of 144 wards on Tuesday. The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) finished second with three seats. The Congress and the Left won two wards each.The BJP, which earlier held five wards, lost control over two. The TMC secured a vote share of 92.36%.Independent candidate Rubina Naaz, who won from ward number 135 and is the wife of a local TMC leader, declared she will join TMC immediately. Two other independent candidates, Purbasha Naskar and Ayesha Kaniz, said they too were willing to join the TMC. “We can work more for the people if we are with the ruling party,” said Kaniz, who is the wife of TMC’s dissident leader Irfan Ali Taaj.Transport minister Firhad Hakim said they have accepted Naaz’s appeal to join TMC. “I have not talked to the other two independent winners till now.”Amid speculation that Hakim may become the mayor again, chief minister Mamata Banerjee left everyone guessing. “Our party will meet in Kolkata at 2pm on December 23 and select the mayor,” said Banerjee before leaving for Guwahati, where she offered prayers at the Kamakshya Temple. Her party leaders described the trip as private. Banerjee was scheduled to return to Kolkata by the evening flight.Banerjee said the BJP and Left have been washed away. “The Congress has been sandwiched between these two losers. This reflects on national politics as well. ...Bengal and Kolkata will show the path to the people of India,” said Mamata Banerjee as the TMC is trying to make inroads into poll-bound Goa and other states.The TMC swept back to power in the state this summer by winning 213 seats in the 294-member West Bengal assembly.In a tweet, Banerjee said: “Heartiest congratulations to all candidates for your victory in the KMC elections. Remember to serve people with utmost diligence and gratitude! I wholeheartedly thank every single resident of KMC for putting their faith on us, once again.”Also Read: Mamata Banerjee praises people as TMC is headed for landslide win in civic pollsThe BJP got a vote share of around 2% while the Left and Congress secured 1.39% each. The Left came second in 65 seats and Congress in 15. The BJP emerged as the runner-up in 54 seats.“People of Kolkata have once again proven that politics of HATE & VIOLENCE have NO PLACE in BENGAL! I thank everyone for blessing us with such a huge mandate. We are truly humbled and shall always remain committed in our goals towards YOUR BETTERMENT! Thank you Kolkata,” tweeted TMC national general secretary Abhishek Banerjee.Security was tightened at the counting centres, and parts of Kolkata after the incidents of violence on the polling day. Three people were injured in a crude bomb explosion in northeast Kolkata. Over a dozen clashes were reported and 70 arrests were made. Five candidates, including one from the TMC, were injured.The BJP and the CPI(M) have filed separate petitions before the Calcutta high court alleging violence and rigging. The petitions, which demanded re-polling, will be heard on December 23.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/mamata-banerjee-s-tmc-pulls-off-landslide-win-in-kolkata-municipal-elections-101640086531830.html
21-12-2021||Pune||BIMSTEC nations stood by each other in trying times: Rajnath Singh||PUNE Defence Minister Rajnath Singh on Tuesday said the BIMSTEC countries have stood by each other under trying circumstances, like cyclones, Tsunamis, earthquakes and floods.He was addressing a military gathering at the PANEX-21, a trans-national, multi-agency exercise organised at the College of Military Engineering in Pune, where he witnessed a live demonstration related to a natural disaster scenario in the time of Covid-19 pandemic and the response of humanitarian aid and disaster management. The multinational exercise aims to foster jointness and develop capabilities in disaster management aspects for the BIMSTEC (Bay of Bengal Initiative for Multi-Sectoral Technical and Economic Cooperation) nations. The BIMSTEC regional organisation comprises Bangladesh, Bhutan, Myanmar, Nepal, Sri Lanka and Thailand, besides India. “During such adverse conditions that the depth of understanding and friendship can be gauged. And I have no hesitation in acknowledging that our countries have stood by each other under such trying circumstances,” the Defence Minister said. Singh said it will remain India’s endeavour to facilitate, support and assist in all possible ways and develop measures that aid in regional cooperation, which benefit all the member states, in the Bay of Bengal region,” the defence minister said. He further said that during recent decades , the country has witnessed a series of calamities like cyclones, Tsunamis, earthquakes and floods, that caused large scale deaths and destruction but the jointsmanship brought greater cooperation amongst the BIMSTEC nations. BOXPANEX-21 at PunePANEX-21, a multi-national - multi-agency exercise is being organised at Pune from December 20-22 with a focused aim to foster common and develop capabilities in disaster management aspects for the BIMSTEC nations. The exercise, is being attended by delegates and subject matter experts from India, Bangladesh, Nepal, Bhutan, Myanmar, Sri Lanka and Thailand.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/bimstec-nations-stood-by-each-other-in-trying-times-rajnath-singh-101640086231835.html
21-12-2021||Pune||TET exam manipulation: Former commissioner of MSCE arrested by Pune police||The former commissioner of Maharashtra state council of examination (MSCE) was arrested by the Pune police cyber crime cell in the case of Teacher’s eligibility test (TET) result manipulation case late on Monday night, officials said.Identified as Sukhdev Dere, the accused served as the commissioner of MSCE before Tukaram Supe took over in 2017. Supe is also in police custody in the case. After arresting Supe last week, police have recovered gold and cash from him worth ₹2.5 crore. Dere had faced departmental inquiry and action in 2016 when he served as the regional head in Aurangabad. He allegedly appointed school teachers without following due procedure.He was arrested along with former director of GA Software Private Limited company Ashwin Kumar. The current director of the company, Piyush Deshmukh, is also in police custody in the case.The cyber police have registered three separate cases of malpractices in three examinations held by the state department - health department, Maharashtra Housing & Area Development Authority (MHADA), and TET. The links of MHADA paper leak were found from accused in health department paper leak case, and the accused in TET exam were found from information extracted during in the investigation of MHADA case accused.So far, a total of 24 people have been arrested in the three cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/tet-exam-manipulation-former-commissioner-of-msce-arrested-by-pune-police-101640085693195.html
21-12-2021||Jaipur||Gayatri Devi’s grandchildren get Jaipur’s Jai Mahal Palace hotel as row ends||A Supreme Court-appointed panel has resolved the protracted legal battle involving members of Jaipur’s erstwhile royal family over the ownership of luxury heritage hotels Jai Mahal and Rambagh Palace. Late Maharani Gayatri Devi’s grandchildren, Devraj and Lalitya, have got the Jai Mahal Palace in Jaipur, and their step uncles got Rambagh Palace as part of the settlement.Former judge Kurian Joseph, the mediator in the case, on September 7 submitted his report on the amicable settlement of the dispute to the court.Advocate Abhishek Kumar Rao of law firm Prime Legal India LLP cited the deed and told PTI: “Devraj and Rajkumari Lalitya, the grandchildren of Gayatri Devi, will get back the luxurious heritage hotel Jai Mahal Palace from their step uncles as per the amicable settlement.”Rao said he has been representing Devraj and Lalitya in their court cases.Also Read: These are the coldest places in Rajasthan. Some recorded sub-zero temperaturesA bench comprising Justices R Subhash Reddy and Hrishikesh Roy noted the submissions of the parties that Joseph has successfully concluded the mediation. It added the original Memorandum of Settlement signed by the parties has been sent to the court, which was taken on record on December 15.“In view of the settlement arrived at between the parties, learned counsels on both sides made a request to dispose of these appeals in terms of the settlement. In view of the request made, these appeals are disposed of with a direction that all the parties concerned shall abide by the terms of the settlement. The order impugned stands modified, in terms of the Memorandum of Settlement dated 15.12.2021,” said the court.Devraj and Lalitya filed two separate appeals last year against the 2018 orders of the National Company Law Appellate Tribunal with respect to ownership and shareholding in the hotels. In the appeals, Jai Singh and Vijit Singh were the respondents.“Erstwhile members of the royal family, Jai Singh, and Vijit Singh agreed to hand over the Jai Mahal Palace to our clients (Devraj and Lalitya) under an amicable settlement arrived between them all on December 15, 2021,” Rao said. Simultaneously, Devraj and Lalitya Kumari will also leave some of their rights in other property, he said.The erstwhile royal family refused to comment on the settlement saying it was an internal family issue.(With inputs from PTI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jaipur-news/gayatri-devi-s-grandchildren-get-jaipur-s-jai-mahal-palace-hotel-as-row-ends-101640084852216.html
21-12-2021||Pune||Civic Sanskriti: Pune could be torchbearer for climate action mission||It’s a month since the UN climate conference of parties. A good time to think about Pune’s role in climate change. Prof Amitav Mallik, founder of Climate Collective Pune, suggests that the wording “phase down coal use by 2070” used by India at COP26 should not give us the idea that we need to act in the distant future. Instead, we the public, civil society organisations, institutions, industry, and local and state governments must actively and urgently apply ourselves to climate action right now. Pune is in a good position to show what cities can do on many fronts to reduce the carbon footprint. The collective, which started as a loose-knit coalition of civil society organisations and individuals, has mooted the idea of “carbon neutrality” by 2030 in the Pune metropolitan region. Our carbon footprint As urban dwellers, most of us have a large “carbon footprint”. It includes the carbon dioxide and other greenhouse gases released from coal-based power plants that generate the electricity we use at our homes and factories, in food production, from petrol or diesel vehicles used for transporting the materials and goods we use, and for personal mobility. Each of us in India on average cause the release of at least 1700 to 1800 kg of CO2 into the atmosphere every year. We who live in Pune or other cities have a much larger carbon footprint than folks in rural areas. Here are some handprint ideas to reduce our collective and individual carbon footprint. Electricity from renewables Pune Municipal Corporation’s (PMC) Environment Status Report (ESR) shows several achievements – 1.89 lakh LED streetlights that are more energy efficient than the earlier lamps, solar panels on several municipal buildings, and establishment of a 1.25-megawatt solar power plant. Transport utility Pune Mahanagar Parivahan Mahamandal Limited (PMPML) has set up wind turbines at its Swargate workshop. The public has also contributed as about 50000 solar water heaters in Pune may have saved 1.82 crore units of electricity last year. These admirable actions should spur our ambition. Rooftop solar and wind energy systems for small and medium industry, and homes must increase manifold. Awareness drives about renewable energy products, services, and financial support would help. Prof Mallik suggests that in a few years, the aim in Pune should be to have multiple smart microgrids using renewable energy to meet electricity needs locally and avoid additional coal-based plants. Other experts suggest that for now, it may be optimal to have renewables integrated with the main grid. Building energy efficiency Buildings are a major consumer of energy. Since Pune is experiencing fast urbanisation, a lot of construction is likely in the next few years. The state government has the crucial role of making the Energy Conservation Building Code for commercial buildings mandatory so that all new buildings would be more energy efficient. EVs and sustainable mobility PMC has set up a cell for electric vehicles and there is much excitement about new age, sleek looking bikes and cars and charging infrastructure. It would be a missed opportunity if the PMC only facilitates electric vehicles and not the shift from private motorised vehicles to walking, cycling, shared and public transport. PMC’s recent initiative to organise a Pedestrians’ Day was commendable. It’s important we go beyond the one-day initiative towards sustainable mobility in the core city (and elsewhere). Such a shift would reduce the carbon footprint and help address traffic congestion, road crashes, and air and noise pollution. Avoid waste and recover energy Waste management helps reduce the carbon footprint in at least three ways. First, we can avoid overconsuming as individuals. PMC already has several biogas plants. Good maintenance of existing plants, increasing facilities for biogas, and strengthening the recovery of recyclables with SWaCH’s doorstep collection services are ways to reduce the city’s energy and material use. The water and energy link It is expected that the new 24x7 water supply system PMC is currently constructing will have more energy efficient water pumping and supply and will avoid water leakages. Yet, we will still draw water from a hundred kilometres away. Pune should protect rainwater recharge zones in the hills and other areas already mapped by NGO Advanced Center for Water Resources Development and Management (Acwadam) and the Groundwater Survey and Development Agency, and ban destruction of the aquifers, that is the rock layers that hold groundwater. Groundwater is right here so lesser energy is needed for extraction and use. Carbon capture To be “carbon neutral” we must not only reduce our CO2 emissions but also capture the remaining amount of CO2 and prevent it from getting back into the atmosphere where it would increase global warming. Planting trees helps as the carbon is stored in the body of the tree. Pune’s grasslands on hill tops and hill slopes can also help retain large quantities of carbon in soils and need to be conserved. Biochar from organic waste, coconut shells and garden wastes can trap carbon and enrich soil. Innovations are needed to enable the economics, collection and conversion of organics to biochar and its use. Finally, we need platforms where the government, institutions, industry, and the public can learn and act collaboratively. Climate action can bring together many benefits, such as air quality, water management, mobility, road safety, equity, livelihoods, and jobs enhancement. Let’s seize the opportunity, for our own sake. Sanskriti Menon is senior programme director, Centre for Environment Education. She writes on urban sustainability and participatory governance. Views are personal. She can be reached at civic.sanskriti@gmail.com||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/civic-sanskriti-pune-could-be-torchbearer-for-climate-action-mission-101640084071944.html
21-12-2021||Mumbai||Chandiwal commission imposes ₹50k fine on Anil Deshmukh||Justice (retired) KU Chandiwal commission on Tuesday imposed a fine of Rs. 50,000 on former Maharashtra home minister Anil Deshmukh, as his counsel failed to attend the proceedings before it today. Justice Chandiwal has directed Deshmukh to deposit the amount in the chief minister’s Covid-19 Relief Fund. On Tuesday, the commission posted the matter for cross-examination of dismissed assistant police inspector Sachin Vaze, by Deshmukh’s lawyer. On orders of the commission, both, Vaze and Deshmukh were produced before the commission on Tuesday. Both of them are presently in judicial custody. While Vaze has been arrested by the National Investigation Agency (NIA) in connection with the Antilia explosives scare and connected murder of Thane trader Mansukh Hiran, the 72-year-old NCP leader is arrested by the enforcement directorate (ED) in the money laundering case against him. The commission has now adjourned the proceedings to Wednesday when Vaze will be further cross-examined by Deshmukh’s lawyers. ﻿Chandiwal Commission is set up by the Maharashtra government to probe into the allegations of corruption made by former Mumbai police commissioner Param Bir Singh, who claimed that the then home minister had instructed some Mumbai police officers, including Vaze, to collect for him ₹100 crore every month from hotels and bars in Mumbai.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/chandiwal-commission-imposes-rs-50k-fine-on-anil-deshmukh-101640084012660.html
21-12-2021||Mumbai||Bombay HC upholds MPT’s Covid-19 test mandate for unvaccinated employees||The Bombay high court on Tuesday upheld a Mumbai Port Trust (MPT) circular making it compulsory for unvaccinated employees to produce negative RT-PCR test results every 10 days. It said people deliberately avoiding Covid-19 vaccination are at a greater risk of contracting or transmitting the coronavirus disease.A division bench of justices SJ Kathawalla and Abhay Ahuja said while the petitioners’ decision not to get vaccinated is well respected, it does not mean that they are entitled to the same treatment that the MPT gives to vaccinated persons. “...it is reasonable for a large organisation such as the MPT to require a higher degree of checking and monitoring of the Covid-19 status of unvaccinated persons,” said the bench. It called the requirement of periodically producing negative RT-PCR test reports as “a reasonable restriction on fundamental rights of the Petitioners to carry out their occupation or trade.”The employees moved the court in August challenging the circular issued two months earlier. The circular said from June 16, unvaccinated employees will not be permitted to attend work without producing RT-PCR test reports, which will be valid for 10 days.Seven MPT employees challenged the circular saying it discriminated between vaccinated and unvaccinated employees and therefore was violative of their fundamental rights.Also Read: United States reports first death due to Omicron variant of Covid-19Their lawyer, Aditi Saxena, argued that no meaningful distinction can be made between vaccinated and unvaccinated persons and that both stand on the same footing in terms of their likelihood to transmit Covid-19.The petitioners maintained they cannot be compelled to get vaccinated and cited health ministry response under the Right to Information in March that Covid-19 vaccination was voluntary.The MPT’s lawyer, Rajul Jain, opposed the petition saying vaccination provides strong protection against infection and transmission of Covid-19. He added that the MPT provided free vaccinations to its employees and the vast majority of them have got vaccinated.Jain said vaccination is voluntary and therefore the MPT was not compelling employees to get vaccinated. He added as an alternative, unvaccinated employees must periodically produce test results, certifying they are free of Covid-19.The court said there was no evidence that vaccinated persons cannot be carriers of Covid-19. It rejected the petitioner’s plea against their employers’ move to charge them for RT-PCR tests and treatment for Covid-19.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/bombay-hc-upholds-mpt-s-covid-19-test-mandate-for-unvaccinated-employees-101640080891687.html
21-12-2021||Chandigarh||'Hang them in public', Sidhu demands public execution for sacrilege accused||Reacting to the alleged sacrilege attempt at Golden Temple in Amritsar, Punjab Congress chief Navjot Singh Sidhu has demanded public execution for those accused of desecrating religious texts.Addressing a rally in Malerkotla on Sunday, Sidhu alleged that a conspiracy is being hatched to disrupt peace in Punjab ahead of Assembly polls, scheduled to be held early next year."Conspiracy going on to disrupt Punjab's peace. Wherever sacrilege takes place, be it of Quran Sharif or Bhagavad Gita or Guru Granth Sahib, they (guilty) should be hanged in public and given biggest Constitutional punishment," Sidhu said.A man was beaten to death in an altercation by angry devotees after he allegedly attempted to commit sacrilege at the Golden Temple in Amritsar, earlier on December 18.The incident took place during evening prayers when the man jumped over the metal railing around the Guru Granth Sahib and allegedly attempted to desecrate the Holy Book of the Sikhs with a sword.Meanwhile, an unidentified man was allegedly beaten to death by locals at Nizampur in Punjab's Kapurthala district on Sunday for allegedly disrespecting the 'Nishan Sahib' at the village Gurudwara.A video of people beating up the man who allegedly attempted sacrilege with the Nishan Sahib has gone viral on the Internet. He was later handed over to the police but some people reportedly insisted that the man be questioned in front of them and the man was allegedly beaten to death in an ensuing scuffle.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/hang-them-in-public-sidhu-demands-public-execution-for-sacrilege-accused-101640080257755.html
21-12-2021||Gurugram||17-year-old football player kills self day before Class 12 exam: Police||A 17-year-old state-level football player allegedly killed herself by jumping in front of a train here, with police saying a purported suicide note suggested that she took the extreme step as she was not prepared for her class 12 exam.However, the girl's father claimed that she was accidentally hit by the train.The incident took place near Chauma railway crossing here on Friday night.According to the police, the student had gone to borrow a book from her classmate for her economics exam scheduled for Saturday.Around 8.30 pm, the station master got information about the incident, following which GRP personnel reached the spot and found the girl who had suffered serious injuries on her head and legs.A suicide note was recovered in which the student stated that she was not well prepared for an exam and hence, decided to kill herself, the police said."My daughter was also a good football player. She died after being accidentally hit by a train when she was returning from her friend's home," the father of the girl said."We are investigating as a suicide note was recovered from her. We handed over the body to the family after postmortem today and a case under 174 Crpc has been registered," Sub Inspector Pawan Kumar said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/17yearold-football-player-kills-self-day-before-class-12-exam-police-101640077438255.html
21-12-2021||Ranchi||Ganja worth ₹40 lakh seized from truck on Ranchi-Patna highway, 2 held||More than 390 kg of ganja was seized and two suspected drug peddlers were arrested in Jharkhand's Ramgarh district during a vehicle checking drive on Monday, a senior police officer said.The incident happened on Ranchi-Patna NH-33 under the jurisdiction of the Kuju police outpost of the district.The seized ganja is estimated to be valued at around ₹40 lakh, the police officer said.Acting on a tip-off, the police team intercepted a truck bearing an Andhra Pradesh registration number, recovered the contraband from it and arrested the two occupants of the vehicle, Ramgarh SP Prabhat Kumar saidThe truck was on its way to Patna from Andhra Pradesh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ranchi-news/ganja-worth-rs-40-lakh-seized-from-truck-on-ranchi-patna-highway-2-held-101640073830049.html
21-12-2021||Indore||MP: 6 international flyers test Covid-19 positive in Indore||Six more international travellers have tested positive for COVID-19 upon arrival in Madhya Pradesh's Indore, taking the total number of such foreign returnees to 12 in the city since December 1.The samples of those who tested positive have been sent for genome sequencing.Indore Chief Medical Health Officer (CMHO) Dr Bhure Singh Setia on Monday told ANI, "Six more international travellers have tested positive for COVID-19 upon arrival in Indore, taking the total number of such foreign returnees to 12 in the city since December 1."Of these, two passengers came from Tanzania, two from the USA, one from UAE and one passenger was from Ghana, Setia informed."All these foreign returnees are being treated. Before this, there were six international travellers who were found positive, out of which two children from Nigeria have been discharged post-recovery," he added.The samples of the 12 passengers have been sent to the testing lab in Delhi for genome sequencing, however, Setia added, the reports are yet to come.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/indore-news/mp-6-international-flyers-test-covid-19-positive-in-indore-101640073792042.html
21-12-2021||Noida||Farmers start hunger strike against Noida Authority over unraised issues||A group of farmers here launched an indefinite hunger strike on Monday as part of their protest against the Noida Authority over a host of demands, including hiked compensation for their land acquired in the past.Rajya Sabha MP and Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) leader Sanjay Singh reached the protest site during the day, and assured them of raising their issue in Parliament.The Samajwadi Party (SP) also extended support to the protesting farmers, who have been staging demonstrations for the last four months.Bharatiya Kisan Parishad (BKP) leader Sukhwir Pehelwan, alias Sukhwir Khalifa, said that for the last few months, residents of 81 villages of Noida have been knocking on the doors of the Noida Authority with their demands but nothing has happened so far."As a result, 10 people, including myself, have started this indefinite hunger strike today. Our fight will continue till our demands are met," Pehelwan told PTI.The protestors include residents of Sadarpur, Bahlolpur, Gejha, Barola, Sorkha, and Sarfabad among other villages in Noida.They said the ongoing protest is to demand increased compensation for their land acquired by the Noida Authority over the past several years and a plot of 10 per cent size of their land, among others.Meanwhile, Sanjay Singh, along with party supporters and local functionaries, reached the protest site during the day and extended support to them, AAP spokesperson Sanjeev Nigam said."Singh, who is also AAP's in-charge of Uttar Pradesh, assured the farmers and villagers of Noida that he will raise their issue in Parliament," Nigam said.BKP's Sukhwir Pehelwan said the protestors got a phone call from former chief minister and Samajwadi Party president Akhilesh Yadav, who has assured them of his party's support.There was no official response from the Noida Authority over the issue.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/farmers-start-hunger-strike-against-noida-authority-over-unraised-issues-101640072954986.html
21-12-2021||Kolkata||Mamata Banerjee praises people as TMC is headed for landslide win in civic polls||KOLKATA: West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee thanked the people on Tuesday as the ruling Trinamool Congress (TMC) was headed for a landslide victory in the Kolkata Municipal Corporation (KMC) elections held on Sunday amid allegations of violence and rigging in some areas. Around Tuesday noon, the TMC was leading in 130 out of 144 wards. The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) was ahead in the five wards that it controlled earlier and the Communist Party of India (Marxist) or CPI (M) in two.“This is people’s victory. We are grateful to the people of Bengal. We will work more for the people and be humbler. We are proud of Kolkata and Bengal. BJP, Congress, and CPI(M) have been defeated by the people. This mandate will help us work for development and for the people,” Banerjee said.The trend was not unexpected, said TMC state general secretary Kunal Ghosh. “Neither the BJP nor the Left parties have any support base in Kolkata.”Also Read: Goa MLA Aleixo Reginaldo joins TMC day after resigning from CongressSecurity was tightened at the counting centres, and parts of Kolkata after the incidents of violence on the polling day. Three people were injured in a crude bomb explosion in northeast Kolkata. Over a dozen clashes were reported and 70 arrests were made. Five candidates, including one from the TMC, were injured.The BJP and the CPI(M) have filed separate petitions before the Calcutta high court alleging violence and rigging. The petitions, which demanded repolling, will be heard on December 23.BJP leader Samik Bhattacharya said it is surprising that Opposition parties are ahead in a handful of wards. “The TMC should have won all 144 wards. Even when violence was on in some polling stations on Sunday, a joint commissioner of police said that polls were held peacefully. That proved how this election was held,” said Bhattacharya.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/mamata-banerjee-praises-people-as-tmc-is-headed-for-landslide-win-in-civic-polls-101640073330975.html
21-12-2021||Patna||Man sentenced in Bihar for torturing parents in inebriated condition||A court in Bihar’s Ara on Monday sentenced a man to five-year imprisonment and fined him ₹one lakh for torturing his parents in an inebriated condition. This is the first such case conviction in Bihar, where prohibition was imposed in April 2016.Aditya Raj, the convict, was booked on his mother’s complaint. The mother also testified against her son in the Ara court.Special public prosecutor Rajesh Kumar said that the mother, in her complaint, said in June this year that Raj assaulted her and her husband, locked them up in a room in a drunken state, and snatched ₹5000 from them. Kumar said that three witnesses testified against Raj.Police said that Raj’s mother made every effort to ensure her son gives up drugs and drinking. “She also took him to a doctor. Despite this, her son’s addiction to alcohol could not be stopped,” said a police officer.The public prosecutor said three witnesses were presented on behalf of the prosecution. No one came forward from the defence in favor of the drunken son. Even his friends did not support him, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/man-sentenced-in-bihar-for-torturing-parents-in-inebriated-condition-101640066070466.html
21-12-2021||Mumbai||Covid-19 pandemic: First Omicron variant case detected in Navi Mumbai||The first case of the Omicron variant of the coronavirus in Maharashtra’s Navi Mumbai was detected in Vashi on Monday. A 19-year-old, who had travelled to Kenya, tested positive on December 18. He is asymptomatic.Maharashtra till Monday had 54 Omicron variant cases.“The Vashi patient is a 19-year-old, who was in Kenya for work. He travelled from Kenya to Hyderabad last week. His RT-PCR was done at the Hyderabad airport. However, he travelled to Mumbai by road in a cab instead of taking a flight. His report came positive on the 18th after which he went to Nanavati hospital and gave a repeat swab. Yesterday, his mother got a call from Hyderabad that he is omicron positive,” said medical health officer Pramod Patil.The 19-year-old resides in a four-storey building with four flats on each floor. The building has been sealed for 10 days. The antigen tests of all his close contacts is negative and their RT-PCR reports are awaited. All the society members too will be tested, said Patil.The patient has been isolated at a hospital in Navi Mumbai, where a separate isolation ward has been created for Omicron patients.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/covid19-pandemic-first-omicron-variant-case-detected-in-navi-mumbai-101640064450607.html
21-12-2021||Other||Maharashtra nagar panchayat polls: Voting in 105 local body seats today||A total of 105 nagar panchayat seats and two zilla parishads in 32 districts of Maharashtra went to polls on Tuesday keeping in mind Covid-19 protocols as per the guidelines of the state election commission.The seats include 81 nagar panchayats whose term ended between April 2020 and May 2021, and 18 whose term will end in December 2021. Apart from these, there are also six newly formed panchayats.“The election programme should be carried out by following the Covid-19 norms set by the Central and state governments. In this regard, instructions have been given to the District Collectors concerned to take action as per the guidelines issued by the State Election Commission,” state election commissioner UPS Madan had informed earlier.Meanwhile, elections to the local bodies from other backward class (OBC) constituencies will be held on January 18 and the seats will be converted into general category based on the Supreme Court ruling.The apex court had on December 15 ordered Maharashtra State Election Commission to issue a fresh notification to treat 27 per cent seats reserved for OBC as a general category for local body polls and commence the election process.The counting of votes for today’s polls will be held December 22.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/maharashtra-nagar-panchayat-polls-voting-in-105-local-body-seats-today-101640059786865.html
21-12-2021||Delhi||Another cold morning for Delhi, temperature falls to 4 degrees Celsius||Delhi woke up to another cold morning on Tuesday, with the temperature at the city’s base observatory in Safdarjung plunging to four degrees Celsius, news agency ANI reported. The news agency quoted data from the India Meteorological Department (IMD) recorded at 8.30am this morning.When maximum is minimum: Explaining Delhi’s winter chillThe national capital has been reeling under cold wave for the last few days. On Monday, the Safdarjung observatory recorded a low of 3.2°C, and Lodhi Road recorded a minimum of 3.1°C - around five notches below normal for this time of the season.Also Read | Rain likely in Gurugram over weekend, says IMDMonday was the coldest morning of the season so far. Prior to Monday, the lowest minimum temperature at Safdarjung was 4.6°C recorded on Sunday morning.The IMD has said in its forecast that some relief is expected from Wednesday due to active western disturbances. The temperature is expected to rise to 8°C by Christmas Day. The IMD has also lifted the yellow alert for severe cold.“Two back-to-back western disturbances and the resultant slowing down of cold northwesterly winds from Tuesday night will push the minimum temperature up,” said R K Jenamani, a senior scientist at the IMD.The weather department has predicted cold wave to severe cold wave conditions in entire northwest India till Tuesday night."Cold wave to severe cold wave conditions are very likely to continue in some parts of Punjab, Haryana, Delhi, Rajasthan and Madhya Pradesh during the next 24 hours and cold wave conditions are very likely at isolated pockets for the subsequent 24 hours," the IMD said in a bulletin on Monday evening.Visuals posted by news agency ANI on Twitter showed Amritsar in Punjab engulfed by a blanket of fog.The IMD declares a cold wave if the minimum temperature dips to 4 degrees Celsius. A cold wave is also declared when the minimum temperature is 10 degrees Celsius or below and is 4.5 notches less than normal.(With inputs from agencies)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/another-cold-morning-for-delhi-temperature-falls-to-4-degrees-celsius-101640057880462.html
21-12-2021||Patna||BJP leader announces ₹11 lakh reward for cutting off Manjhi’s tongue||MADHUBANI: Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader Gajendra Jha on Monday announced ₹11 lakh reward for cutting off former Bihar chief minister Jitan Ram Manjhi’s tongue for allegedly making disparaging remarks against priests.Jha accused Manjhi of deliberately making repeated remarks against Sanatan dharma. “Manjhi should convert if he does not believe in Hindu Sanatan Dharma. Whosoever son of the Brahmin would chop off Manjhi’s tongue for making a disparaging remark against the community would be presented with a cash reward of ₹11 lakh,” said Jha.Manjhi’s Hindustan Awami Morcha (HAM) is a constituent of Bihar’s ruling National Democratic Alliance, which includes the BJP.HAM spokesman Danish Rizwan dared Jha and said no one has the courage to attack Manjhi. “The BJP leadership should handle its leaders, otherwise the results will be bad,” he said. “When Manjhi has already expressed his regret, then it is not right to rake up this issue.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/bjp-leader-announces-rs-11-lakh-reward-for-cutting-off-manjhi-s-tongue-101640056589997.html
21-12-2021||Delhi||Delhi to see shallow fog; Capital’s air quality in ‘very poor’ zone||NEW DELHI: Delhi is likely to see shallow fog on Tuesday, according to the India Meteorological Department’s (IMD) forecast, while the Capital’s air quality was in the “very poor” zone. The minimum temperature on Tuesday is likely to be 8 degrees Celsius, while maximum is predicted to reach 21 degrees Celsius. The minimum temperature on Monday was 7 degrees Celsius, while the maximum was 22 degrees Celsius. On the pollution front, data from the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) showed that the hourly air quality index (AQI) at 7am was 363. On Monday, the average 24-hour AQI was 332, which is in the middle of the “very poor” category. The CPCB classifies an AQI of zero to 50 as “good”, 51-100 as “satisfactory”, 101-200 as “moderate”, 201-300 as “poor”, 301-400 as “very poor” and above 401 as “severe”. On Tuesday, the Union ministry of earth science’s air quality monitoring centre, System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting and Research (SAFAR), said, “The AQI today indicates ‘very poor’ air quality. It will degrade further but remain in ‘very poor’ category due to cold wave conditions and moderate wind speed.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-to-see-shallow-fog-capital-s-air-quality-in-very-poor-zone-101640055689923.html
21-12-2021||Chandigarh||Cong sarpanch’s husband held for faking death in Ludhiana||The husband of a Congress sarpanch was arrested for faking his own death on Sunday. The accused, Joga Singh, was booked on the complaint of his cousin, Joginder Singh. The complainant said that he had leant his cousin ₹1 lakh. However, when he asked the accused to return the money he threatened to implicate him in an abetment to suicide case. He alleged that Joga Singh had faked his own death, embezzled panchayat funds, and also duped a Chandigarh resident of ₹1.5 lakh.Sub-inspector Santokh Singh, who is investigating the case, said an FIR was registered under Sections 182 (false information), 120B (criminal conspiracy) and 194 (fabricating evidence ) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) was lodged against the accused on October 21, after the police found him alive. Joga Singh had recorded a video message using his mobile phone on July 24 near the Sirhind Canal saying that he was going to end his life by jumping into Sirhind Canal over monetary issues with two villagers. He had sent the video to his wife, the sarpanch of Burj Pawat village of Machhiwara, and other relatives.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/cong-sarpanch-s-husband-held-for-faking-death-in-ludhiana-101640043389095.html
21-12-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana | Kidnapping victim stages protest outside police station over inaction||Ludhiana A victim of kidnapping and assault, along with his family members and supporters, on Monday staged a protest outside Daresi police station, alleging police inaction in his case.The victim, Naresh Pal, a 42-year-old resident of the Ganpati Colony, Noorwala road, had on November 13 filed a complaint detailing his kidnapping and assault, allegedly orchestrated by his business partner.The police had booked the accused, Ranvir Singh and Gagan, but as per Pal, no efforts were made to arrest the accused.“I am forced to take the rounds of the police station daily requesting the police to arrest the accused. The police personnel told him that they cannot conduct the raids as they do not have enough police force in the police station,” Pa; alleged.“So, we brought the locks with us to mark the protest. If they have no force to protect the city residents and to arrest the accused, they should shut down the police stations,” he added.The protesters brought locks to mark their protest, asking the police to shut down the police station. The protest ended in the evening following assurance from senior police officials.Inspector Amrit Pal, Station Head Officer of the Daresi police station, refuted the allegations, saying the police had conducted at least four raids for the arrest of the accused, but they were on the run. The SHO also claimed that the complainant never met him.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/kidnapping-victim-stages-protest-outside-police-station-over-inaction-101640043270858.html
21-12-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana | Retired co-operative society secretary wanted for ₹12.57-crore embezzlement declared PO||A retired secretary of Butahari co-operative agriculture multipurpose society has been declared proclaimed offender by the court for embezzlement of ₹12.57 crore.The accused Jagdev Singh of Butahari village was booked by Dehlon police on December 19, 2020 under Section 409 (Criminal breach of trust by public servant) of Indian Penal Code (IPC) and section of Prevention of Corruption Act. An FIR was lodged following the statement of Sangram Singh, assistant registrar of the society. Sangram said Jagdev Singh had retired from the society on April 30, 2019. After his retirement, when inspector of co-operative society Harjinder Singh had scanned the record, he found that the accused had not made entries for fertilizers bought and distributed among the farmers from April 1, 2018. On investigating themselves they found that the accused had embezzled ₹12.57 croreHead constable Gurjot Singh, who is investigating the case, said the accused had fled after being booked in the criminal case. He was never arrested and the court had declared him proclaimed offender on November 2. Following the court orders the police have lodged another FIR against him under Section 174-A (failure to appear at specified place) of IPC.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-retired-co-operative-society-secretary-wanted-for-12-57-crore-embezzlement-declared-po-101640043269088.html
21-12-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana mayor postpones MC General House meeting||Ludhiana Mayor Balkar Sandhu on Monday announced that the Municipal Corporation’s (MC) General House meeting, which was scheduled to be held on Wednesday, has been postponed till next week. As per the information, the meeting had been called amid mounting pressure from the ruling party MLAs citing the delay in getting the projects approved under Punjab Nirman Programme ahead of assembly elections. The state government had approved funds for taking up development works in every constituency under the programme. The mayor is now expected to first conduct a meeting of the civic body’s Finance and Contracts Committee (F and CC) this week approving different projects including taking over maintenance of 18 GLADA colonies, making building plans mandatory for availing power connection, revising annual budget of the MC, and waiving off water-sewer charges.The approved resolutions are then expected to be tabled in the House meeting.BJP to corner Congress at House meetMeanwhile, Pushpinder Singal, district president of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), conducted a meeting with party councillors ahead of the House meeting.Singh revealed that the BJP will gherao the mayor and Congress party councillors over the deteriorating solid-waste management in the city and rising corruption within the civic body.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-mayor-postpones-mc-general-house-meeting-101640043149163.html
21-12-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana | MLA Surinder Dawar launches project to cover sewer drains||Ludhiana Surinder Dawar, MLA from the Ludhiana central constituency, on Monday launched the ₹9.5 crore-project to cover the internal drain (nullah) between Shingar cinema road and Gaughat cremation ground. The project is expected to solve the sewer water problem for the residents of Dharampura, Dhokka Mohalla and surrounding areas including Ward No 56 and 57. Complaints about unhygienic conditions and foul smell were common in the areas, with the dumping of garbage at one side of the drain adding to the woes. Accidents wherein two wheelers would skid into the drain due to absence of boundary wall have also been in the past.Ram, a resident of Dharampura, said “It is even difficult to step into the area when the city witnesses heavy rainfall due to water accumulation. The sewer water overflows into the street and residents have been demanding a solution for the problem for a long time.”Dawar said that a promise was made to the residents that the drain will be covered and they have initiated the work now. Authorities have covered the drain between from Shagun Palace to Gurdwara Dukhniwaran Sahib (the Ganda Nala) at the cost of ₹40 crore, with a road being constructed over the same. Over 70% of the work to cover another drain in Shivaji Nagar has also been completed, Dawar later claimed. Sham Sundar Malhotra, senior deputy mayor, was also present on the occasion.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-mla-surinder-dawar-launches-project-to-cover-sewer-drains-101640043088516.html
21-12-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana | Fog-induced train cancellations leave porters in dire straits||Already weighed down by mortgaged houses, debts and the daily struggle to arrange two square meals for their families, the fog-induced cancellation of 25 long-route trains has come as yet another setback for porters at the Ludhiana railway station. Though Northern Railways cancels trains each winter in anticipation of dense fog in the region, this year’s cancellation, which comes on the heals of lockdowns and other unforeseen disruptions, has exacerbated porters’ financial troubles. Officials say the long-route trains will remain off the tracks till February 28. “Trains had finally started plying, and we were making ₹500 a day when the cancellations were announced. Now, we are struggling to meet our daily expenses,” says Jai Bhagwan, one of the 55 registered porters at the station. “Now, we are dependant on the weekly trains that bring migrant labourers from Bihar and Uttar Pradesh. The trains arrive on Wednesday and Friday, and most workers have heavy luggage with them,” says Bhagwan. The porters work according to their numbers and wait their turn to attend to passengers. Each porter gets around three chances a day. However, passengers’ prejudices sometimes get in the way of porters getting equal work. Storming yet another male bastion are two women porters – Maya of Ludhiana and Lajjowanti of Rajasthan. Though the women work as efficiently as their male counterparts, few passengers agree to handover their luggage to them, which translates into lower earnings even on a good day. With the footfall at the station decreasing, the women are getting even lesser work than usual. “As I am a woman, travellers often refuse to hand over their luggage to me, though I can easily lift heavy loads. I don’t earn as much as other coolies. I have even requested the railway authorities for a job, but they have fallen on deaf ears,” says Lajjowanti.The porters say they have been overlooked by the government. “We could not earn during the lockdown, but the government did not compensate us. The only thing we receive from the government is our uniforms and a free travel pass,” says Deepak, one of the porters. “My mother died of blood cancer. I had to mortgage my land and gold for her treatment. I have taken a loan of around ₹5 lakh, but have not been able to keep up with payments. I had to withdraw my daughters from school as I could not pay their fee, “ he says, adding, “The government’s promises are just lip-services.”
21-12-2021||Chandigarh||Waste management: Consultants give inputs to MC commissioner on detailed project report||With the municipal corporation struggling with solid waste management, mayor Balkar Sandhu and municipal corporation commissioner Pardeep Sabharwal invited consultants to deliver a presentation on preparing a detailed project report on waste management, which is needed for hiring a new contractor. The civic body has been facing the ire of the National Green Tribunal for shoddy waste management, especially after A2Z Company, which used to manage the waste, self-terminated its contract. The MC has made a stop-gap arrangement by roping in a third party for shifting of garbage collected from houses to the main dump site. However, no waste is being processed at the main dump site. An official, requesting anonymity, said the process to hire a new contractor or firm was delayed as the MC officials prepared a DPR for hiring a new contractor on their own. After a DPR was prepared, the local bodies department asked them to rope in a consultant to avoid anomalies and mistakes. Efforts will also be made to get the DPR, prepared by MC, approved from the consultants. Mayor Balkar Sandhu said the company has delivered a presentation, but which firm will prepare the DPR is yet to be finalised.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/waste-management-consultants-give-inputs-to-mc-commissioner-on-detailed-project-report-101640042969288.html
21-12-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana| Truck driver held with 10kg opium, 20kg poppy husk||The police arrested a truck driver with 10kg opium and 20kg poppy husk near Sahnewal on Monday. The accused, Gurjinder Singh of Lohatbaddi village of Raikot, was coming from Mandi Gobindgarh side, when he was arrested. The owner of the truck, Pavittar Singh, of Lohatbaddi village of Raikot has also been arrested. Commissioner of police Gurpreet Singh Bhullar said the accused had been smuggling in contraband for the past two years for Pavittar Singh. Gurjinder said they would purchase opium and poppy husk from Jharkhand and sell it in Jagraon at exorbitant rates.Pavittar Singh is already facing trial in drug peddling cases lodged against him in Ludhiana and Sangrur.Deputy commissioner of police (DCP, investigation) Varinder Singh Brar said teams have been formed to arrest Pavitar Singh and a case has been registered under the NDPS Act.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-truck-driver-held-with-10kg-opium-20kg-poppy-husk-101640042909193.html
21-12-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana | NGO initiates weekly protests to enforce plastic bag ban||Slamming the municipal corporation for failing to enforce the ban on plastic carry bags, which was imposed across the state five years ago, a Jalandhar-based NGO staged a protest outside the MC’s Zone D office on Monday. The NGO, Action Group Against Plastic Pollution (AGAPP), will be holding demonstrations in the city every week on Monday. Hoping to launch a mass movement against plastic use, founder member Navneet Bhullar said, “A weekly protest is already being staged in Jalandhar since November 9. We will soon be moving to other cities as well. We urge the public to support our movement as it is the first step towards saving the environment.” Bhullar, who is a US-based doctor, said, “Plastic is not just hurting the environment, but also affecting residents’ health. We have submitted several memorandums to the local bodies departments, and local authorities in Ludhiana and Jalandhar, but to no avail. In October, we also wrote to the chief minister’s office, but have received no response.” The protesters, who raised slogans such as ‘kisan morcha jitt gaye, asi vee jittangey’ and ‘polythene hatao, dharti, jeevan bachao’, succeeded in getting an audience with the MC commissioner, Pardeep Sabharwal, who reached the office during the protest. “Teams have been formed to check use and sale of plastic bags.” The MC has been struggling to impose the ban, which was imposed in April 2016, due to political interference, especially ahead of the elections, and the drives organised by MC in the past have been a damp squib.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-ngo-initiates-weekly-protests-to-enforce-plastic-bag-ban-101640042849156.html
21-12-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana | Burglars break into electronic store, decamp with goods worth ₹1.25 lakh||Burglars broke into an electronic store and decamped with ₹5,000 and goods worth ₹1.25 lakh on Monday morning. The complainant, Ravinder Singh, owner of Anand Electrics, says he had drawn the shutter at around 9pm on Sunday. The next morning, a neighbour alerted him about the break-in at the store. “The burglars bent the shutter to enter the store. I incurred a loss of around ₹1.25 lakh,” he said. Assistant sub-inspector (ASI) Sukhwinder Singh, who is investigating the case, said there were no CCTVs (closed-circuit televisions) at the store. “The owner of a dairy saw four men in a Maruti Suzuki Alto near the store around 4am. They were most likely the burglars. A case has been registered against unidentified persons and a probe is underway.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-burglars-break-into-electronic-store-decamp-with-goods-worth-1-25-lakh-101640042789201.html
21-12-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana | Gurmat sangeet legend Kartar Singh receives Padma Shri||Deputy commissioner Varinder Kumar Sharma handed over the Padma Shri, the fourth-highest civilian award, to gurmat sangeet legend Kartar Singh on Monday. The DC handed the award on behalf of the President as Kartar Singh is at present admitted at the Hero DMC Heart Institute and could not attend the ceremony owing to his frail health. Kartar Singh’s family members – daughters Manjit Kaur and Sukhbir Kaur, sons Amarjit Singh and Amritpal Singh, daughter-in-law Amarjit Kaur, and his grandchildren – were also present on the occasion.Congratulating the legend, the DC said, “Kartar Singh has been practising gurmat sangeet since the age of 13 and specialises in tanti saaz.”Kartar Singh, who pursued a career in teaching, as a professor, is also the recipient of the Sangeet Natak Akademi Award and Tagore Ratna Award. He has also been awarded the Punjab government’s Shiromani Ragi Award, and Punjabi University’s Gurmat sangeet senior fellowship. He was also conferred Sikh Lifetime Achievement Award in London (UK) on October 9, 2011, and was nominated to be among the top 100 global Sikhs by the Sikh Directory in the UK.Singh also penned five books on ‘Gurmat sangeet’, which have been published by the Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee, while two books are under publication. Born at Ghummanke village in Lahore (Pakistan) on April 3, 1928, Singh studied at the Panjab University, Chandigarh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-gurmat-sangeet-legend-kartar-singh-receives-padma-shri-101640042669202.html
21-12-2021||Chandigarh||Ban on bathing in water bodies as mercury plummets in Ludhiana||Ludhiana With a cold wave sweeping through the district, a ban was imposed on diving, swimming and bathing in the Sidhwan Canal, Sutlej Club and other water bodies in the city on Monday. Deputy commissioner of police (DCP) Simratpal Singh Dhindsa, who has additional charge of joint commissioner of police (JCP, headquarters), said the order will be effective for two months and legal action would be taken against violators.The JCP also extended the ban on using VIP tags or writing “police” or “army”on vehicles and the ban on carrying sand in uncovered vehicles, and ferrying people in goods’ vehicles.To check the illegal hookah bars operating in the city, the JCP also extended the ban on serving hookah. He said that any hotel, bar, or parlour found serving hookahs will be dealt with strictly, and cases will be registered against the owners.The consumption of alcohol in the open at rehris, dhabas, shops, and public places was also outlawed, as was the use of footpaths to install rehris and makeshift stalls.The JCP said that the ownership of second-hand vehicles should be transferred in the name of buyers within 30 days of purchase. “Criminals often buy old vehicles, and do not get them transferred in their name, and later use them to execute crimes.” Calling it dangerous for animals and humans, the JCP also baned the use of black films on vehicle windows, sale of sub-standard helmets and plastic kite strings under Section 144 of Code of Criminal Procedure (CrPC),. Guest, purchase registers mandatoryAs per orders, hotels, guest houses and other service apartment owners must maintain a record of visitors. Similarly, it is mandatory for shopkeepers to keep a record of buyers of army print clothes and uniforms under Section 144 of the CrPC. Shopkeepers were ordered to keep copies of identity proofs, and phone numbers of the buyers and a record of the stock, all of which is to be submitted at the police stations concerned at regular intervals.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ban-on-bathing-in-water-bodies-as-mercury-plummets-in-ludhiana-101640042429144.html
21-12-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana | Cops review security arrangements at places of worship||With repeated incidents of sacrilege sending the Punjab Police into a tizzy, cops on Monday advised the local management committees of different places of worship to install CCTV cameras and increase security on the premises. The cops asked the management committees to ensure the presence of a member of the committee or a priest in the sanctum sanctorum at all times. The committees were asked to handover any suspects to the police rather than assaulting them. Police patrolling teams have also been directed to keep vigil outside religious places.An official, requesting anonymity, said that the police have inputs which suggest that anti-social elements are trying to disturb the law and order situation in Punjab. Additional deputy commissioner of police (ADCP) Rupinder Kaur Sra said, “Over the last two days, we have checked all religious places in the district. Most places of worship already have CCTV cameras, others were asked to install them at the earliest.” “In rural areas, we asked villagers to organise ‘theekri pehras’ (community patrolling) outside religious places in their respective areas. We also conducted meetings with sarpanchs and panchayats of the villages,”said Sra.“Station house officers (SHOs) have also been asked to hold meetings with the management committees of religious places from time to time and to check if the CCTVs are working properly,” the ADCP added.Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (SGPC) member Charan Singh Alamgir said, “We have also asked all gurdwara committee members to be alert at all times. Most gurdwaras have already installed CCTVs, and are planning to increase the number of cameras.” Gurdwara Dukh Nivaran Sahib, Jagraon Bridge, managing committee president Pritpal Singh also said that CCTVs have been installed on the premises. 
21-12-2021||Chandigarh||MC polls: Kanhaiya rakes up Chandigarh’s poor show in Swachh Survekshan||Congress leader Kanhaiya Kumar, who was in Chandigarh on Monday to campaign for the party candidates ahead of the municipal corporation elections in the city, raked up the city’s poor show in the recent Swachh Survekshan rankings.While addressing a public rally at Bapu Dham Colony, Kumar said after Chandigarh came into existence, it used to be at the top spot in cleanliness, but it was now at the 66th position. “This is the reality and people have to realise it. While many are trying to deviate the attention of the public from real issues,” he said, adding that it was the dream city of Jawahar Lal Nehru and the country’s first planned city.He said, “Whenever the air quality deteriorated in Delhi, people there used to say let’s visit Chandigarh and enjoy the fresh air. Now, the air quality here has also started worsening.”On people’s questions over the Congress’ performance, he said, “Congress created Chandigarh and took it to the top spot, but the city has plunged to 66th spot in the last five years.”While appealing to people to realise their real issues, Kumar said, “The election process, be it on a small or large scale, is the only democratic tool by which people can create pressure on the governments.” He also said the Congress party represented the basic ideas of the Constitution, which were equality and unity.Later, Kanhaiya also attended a public meeting in Sector 47-C, where he said people wanted change and were fed up with the policies of the BJP. “I feel very happy to be in Chandigarh. It is my appeal that by voting in favour of the Congress candidates, strengthen the process of change and cooperate in creating an atmosphere of peace,” he said.Mohali MLA Balbir Singh Sidhu, Mohali mayor Amarjit Singh Sidhu, Sujanpur MLA Rajinder Rana, former councillor Jatinder Bhatia and other Congress leaders also addressed the gathering.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/mcpollskanhaiya-rakes-up-chandigarh-s-poor-show-in-swachh-survekshan-101640040630775.html
21-12-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh reels under biting cold||The cold wave continued in the city for the second consecutive day on Monday, with the minimum temperature staying at 3.3°C, only slightly higher than 3.2°C on Sunday and three notches below normal. At 18.9°C, the maximum temperature also rose marginally from 18.7°C on Sunday, but was still two degrees below normal. According to the India Meteorological Department (IMD), due to clear skies and no fog, the temperature stayed low on the intervening night of Sunday and Monday. A cold wave is declared in the plains when the minimum temperature goes below 4°C. It is also declared when the minimum temperature is 10°C or below and also 4.5 notches lesser than the season’s normal for two consecutive days.Meanwhile, the city may get some rain later this week with two western disturbances expected from Wednesday.“Two western disturbances will affect the city one after the other from Wednesday onwards. While some rain is likely in the region, it’s too early to say if Chandigarh will see any precipitation. But the cloud cover will help increase the night temperature. Fog formation can also be expected in the morning from Thursday onwards,” said an IMD official.Over the next three days, the day temperature may rise to 20°C, while the minimum temperature will remain between 4°C and 7°C.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-reels-under-biting-cold-101640040629401.html
21-12-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh tricity’s Covid tally remained over 100 for second straight week||For the second consecutive week, the weekly Covid-19 tally crossed the 100-mark in the Chandigarh tricity area, with as many as 136 fresh infections surfacing between December 13 and 19. The weekly tally is also the highest since the second wave started ebbing away in the area in July.Among the three jurisdictions, only Chandigarh registered a spike in cases this week, which medical experts believe is the result of MC elections’ campaigning, crowded marriage events and people’s apathy towards Covid-19 appropriate behaviour.UT’s cases increased drastically from last week’s 48 to 70 cases this week. In Mohali, the tally dropped from 48 to 35 in the same period, while Panchkula logged near-about same infections – 31 this week against 30 last week.In the previous week, tricity had reported 126 cases, besides one fatality in Mohali. This week, the number of deaths rose to two, with Panchkula and Chandigarh confirming one each. At the peak of the second wave in May, the tricity had clocked 46,245 cases and 790 deaths in just one month. Since then, the figures started winding downwards and weekly cases began fluctuating. However, the weekly tally never crossed the 100 mark until the week ending on November 29, which saw 109 infections. In its following week, the case count saw a 15% dip with 93 infections, but then spiked again at 126 in the previous week.‘Positivity rate below 1%’Though the weekly cases started showing an upward trend after mid-November, the positivity rate in all three jurisdictions continues to remain below 1%. In the week ending on December 19, Chandigarh had tested as many as 9,227 people for Covid-19, of which 70 turned out positive, a positivity rate of 0.75%. In the same period, Mohali tested 11,942 people and found 35 infected (0.29%). At 0.37%, the positivity rate in Panchkula was also low with only 31 people testing positive out of the 8,242 sampled.‘Not too late to avert another surge’UT director, health services, Dr Suman Singh said, “The cases are rising simply due to people’s apathy towards Covid-appropriate behaviour. At crowded election rallies, public gatherings, markets and marriage events, social distancing and face masks are not given priority. Since the positivity, hospitalisation and fatality rates are currently under control, we can still work on averting another surge.” “Within a month, Chandigarh’s active cases have doubled, which is a cause of worry. Though we don’t have immediate evidence, Omicron can be the reason behind the Covid surge across the country. Therefore, people must follow safety guidelines and precautions to prevent another wave,” said Dr Sanjeev Palta, the nodal officer of ICU management at Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH), Sector 32. Dr Mukta Kumar, chief medical officer, Panchkula, said, “People must exercise caution at election gatherings, as negligence will cause the pandemic numbers to increase. This is a known fact and has been seen in the past as well.”Mohali civil surgeon Dr Adarsh Pal Kaur said, “The surge is the result of election rallies and crowded events. The situation can be controlled if people pay due importance to vaccination and adherence to safety protocols.”Two succumb to Covid in tricity, 17 test positiveCovid-19 snuffed out two more lives in the tricity, with Mohali and Chandigarh reporting one fatality each on Monday.In Chandigarh, an assistant professor of Panjab University succumbed to the virus at Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER) on Sunday night. The latest fatality in Mohali was a 65-year-old woman from Phase 4, who was admitted at Mayo Hospital in Sector 69. Chandigarh had last reported a death on December 18 and Mohali on December 7.Meanwhile, after rising steadily, tricity’s daily Covid cases saw a drop. Against 28 infections the day before, 17 new cases surfaced on Monday. Chandigarh was the biggest contributor to the daily tally with 14 cases, followed by two cases from Panchkula and one from Mohali.With this, Chandigarh’s active cases reached 100, a first since July 10. As many as 42 patients are still infected in Mohali and 34 in Panchkula.Since the pandemic broke out, Chandigarh has logged 65,717 cases and lost 1,078 patients to the virus. Mohali’s cases and deaths have reached 69,174 and 1,074, respectively. In Panchkula, 30,905 people have been infected so far and 381 have died.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-tricity-s-covid-tally-remained-over-100-for-second-straight-week-101640040583140.html
21-12-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh MC polls: Sood, Chawla play blame game at meeting called by FOSWAC||After sharing smiles, city Congress president Subhash Chawla and city BJP president Arun Sood turned to trading barbs over each other’s parties’ shortcomings, at a meeting called by the Federation of Sector Welfare Association Chandigarh (FOSWAC) on Monday.The meeting was scheduled for the RWAs to discuss their problems with the parties in the build-up to the municipal corporation (MC) elections. Sood and Chawla were in attendance, along with AAP president Prem Garg.Speaking before Sood, Chawla said the BJP kept putting the blame for all problems on their predecessors: “Even if there were any shortcomings from our side, what has the BJP done to make things better since they got elected the last time?”. “The Congress has made a charge sheet of the pre-poll promises that the BJP failed to keep. Despite being in power at the Centre, the grant-in-aid money was 50% of what the BJP-led MC should have got,” Chawla said.In response, Sood said during BJP’s term, the grant-in-aid money had doubled and MC was getting funds from the government through other grants as well. Sood claimed that they had also prepared a 28-page report card of all projects started and finished by them, while the Congress was not in a position to list any major projects during their tenure.Many residents raised issues with the garbage collection system of the city, while FOSWAC chairman Baljinder Bittu termed it a complete failure. For this, naming previous MC commissioner KK Yadav, Sood said his high-headedness had led to these issues and the high water bills, which they were now solving. He also spoke about how upcoming projects like the 24/7 water supply and the new CCTV camera system under the Smart City Mission will benefit the people.AAP president Prem Garg stressed on not taking more funds from people as taxes. “We have enough funds, we just need to utilise them more efficiently. As a chartered accountant this is what I do,” he said. Pradeep Chopra of the Sector 21 RWA complained about hike in parking charges, calling it a tool to harass residents, to which Garg agreed and said AAP will work towards curbing such charges and taxes, which only existed to trouble the average resident. When he said he wanted to bring the Delhi model to Chandigarh, the other party presidents shut him down, saying that Delhi could rather do with the Chandigarh model after the recent problems that Delhi was facing.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-mc-polls-sood-chawla-play-blame-game-at-meeting-called-by-foswac-101640040580988.html
21-12-2021||Chandigarh||Mohali man found carrying 270gm heroin gets 15-year rigorous imprisonment||A 51-year-old Mohali resident has been awarded 15 years of rigorous imprisonment for smuggling 270gm heroin into the district. The court of additional district and session judge Harreet Kaur Kaleka also imposed a fine of ₹1.5 lakh on the convict, Balwinder Singh.He will have to undergo extended sentence of one more year if the fine is not paid. The special task force (STF) of Mohali police had nabbed Balwinder in October 2018 after he was found in possession of 270gm heroin. The police had received secret information that a drug runner was coming to Mohali to supply heroin to a client in a Maruti Swift car, following which a team led by ASI Malkit Singh laid a trap and arrested Balwinder. According to police, he used to buy heroin from a Nigerian in Delhi and supply it to clients in Mohali.Kullu man caught with 4.4kg charas awarded 10-year RI
21-12-2021||Chandigarh||28-year-old man found poisoned in Mohali’s Zirakpur||The local police have launched an investigation after a 28-year-old man was found poisoned to death at his rented accommodation in a housing society in Zirakpur. According to police, the deceased, who was a native of Hansi in Hisar, Haryana, was married and had a minor daughter, but was living here in a live-in relationship with a woman. While police suspect it is a case of suicide, the deceased’s father alleged that his son had been poisoned by the woman he was living with. Investigating officer ASI Gurnam Singh said they had initiated inquest proceedings under Section 174 of the Code of Criminal Procedure (CrPC) and recorded the statement of the deceased’s father. The body was handed over to the family members after autopsy, whose report is awaited. Police said the incident came to light when the youth was rushed to a local hospital by neighbours, where he was declared brought dead by doctors.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/28yearold-man-found-poisoned-in-mohali-s-zirakpur-101640040578623.html
21-12-2021||Chandigarh||Penalty-happy GMADA tops list of property tax defaulters in Mohali||The Greater Mohali Area Development Authority (GMADA), that levies heavy penal interest on people unable to pay dues, is unabashedly the biggest property tax defaulter among government agencies in Mohali.Ever since the tax was introduced in 2014-15, GMADA has not paid any dues, which have piled up to a whopping ₹6 crore.“We have sent them several letters, but there has been no action from GMADA. Now, we plan to take up the issue with higher authorities to get the dues,” said Kamal Kumar Garg, the Mohali municipal corporation commissioner.GMADA owes the property tax for its warehouse in Phase 11, old bus stand and Tibet Market land in Phase 8, old Deputy Commissioner Office in Phase 1, Hockey Stadium in Phase 9, all sports complexes, liquor vends, and commercial booths in various phases and sectors. The Mohali police are placed second in the list of biggest defaulters. The department has not paid a single penny to the civic body since the tax’s introduction, leading to dues worth ₹3 crore. Its several buildings include police stations, cybercrime office and women cell, among others. The District Administrative Complex in Sector 76 also owes MC ₹30 lakh in property tax for the past three years, excise and taxation department ₹5 lakh and Labour Bhawan in Phase 10 ₹3 lakh.A civic body official said they had written several letters to the defaulters, but in vain: “We will take strict action after one final notice.”According to MC records, Mohali has 52,678 properties, including 41,082 residential, 4,929 commercial, 1,683 industrial and 4,984 vacant plots – of which 24,406 are taxable.The last date to pay property tax for the current fiscal with 10% rebate was September 30. So far, MC has collected ₹18 crore against the target of ₹27 crore. Now, a 10% penalty will be levied on the outstanding tax.
21-12-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh MC polls: Garbage takes centre stage as campaigning nears end||Garbage collection and waste-processing problems have emerged as the main civic poll issue as the election campaign nears its end on 5pm, December 21. The city goes to poll on December 24. The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) and the Congress are also raking up other issues like inflation, water tariff hike, taxes and corruption, and BJP’s main poll plank is “development”, but it is the city’s garbage problems on which all three are gunning against each other the hardest. Garbage management also prominently appears in the manifestoes of the parties. Both the Congress and the AAP are promising to make “Chandigarh No.1” again, while the BJP is assuring complete removal of garbage from the Dadumajra dumping ground and even promising collection of waste from all floors. From the “illegalities” in the setting up of the solid waste processing plant in Sector 25 to repeated fires at the Dadumajra dumping site to “highly expensive” contract for clearing the towering legacy waste, all have become campaign talking points for the parties. Poor show in cleanliness surveyJust a month back, the city had fared poorly in the Swachh Survekshan national rankings 2021 due to poor waste collection and disposal system. The City Beautiful slipped to 66th position in the country on the cleanliness front. Announced so close to the impending Chandigarh municipal corporation (MC) elections, the rankings had immediately triggered slugfest between the Congress and the BJP. The Congress castigated the BJP for its six years of “inaction” on the issue, worsening the problem manifold. The BJP in turn asserted the problem as the legacy of Congress’ “misrule and corrupt decision-making”. The AAP, though hammering both rival parties for the garbage dump mess, itself has been getting cornered by the Congress and the BJP for its own “failure” to clean-up garbage “mountains” in Delhi, where AAP has been in power for nearly six years. All guns blazingUnder attack from both the AAP and the BJP, the Congress raised the stakes on the garbage issue after it held a press conference at the dumping site on December 18. Former MP Pawan Kumar Bansal and AICC general secretary Randeep Singh Surjewala addressed the media with the Dadumajra garbage dump in the background. “If there was no exit clause, how did MC take over the plant. If the running of plant by the private company was so bad, why the BJP-ruled MC didn’t serve it any notice in all these years,” questioned the Congress leaders. The AAP, too, had failed in Delhi on the garbage management front, contended Congress leaders, so how could they solve it here. Solving the city’s garbage problem was the first promise the AAP supremo and Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal made at his campaign rally in Sector 43 on December 19. “We will make Chandigarh No. 1 city in Asia,” he assured. BJP leaders have maintained that Congress signed the agreement with the firm to set up the solid waste processing plant without an “exit clause” and with “poor technology”. Defending itself, BJP claims it is nearing a solution to both the legacy waste problem and upgrade of the solid waste processing plant, as nearly half of the legacy waste has been removed and remaining work has been sped up.Congress set up a dysfunctional solid waste processing plant: AAPChandigarh The chairman of Aam Aadmi Party’s election campaign committee, Chander Mukhi Sharma, on Monday blamed the Congress for setting up a “dysfunctional” solid waste processing plant in Sector 25. Addressing a press conference here on Monday, Sharma alleged that former member of Parliament (MP) Pawan Kumar Bansal batted for a private firm for establishing the solid waste processing plant during an MC debate. “Later, the contract was given to the same firm,” said Sharma, while quoting minutes of the MC House debate, when the statement was allegedly made. HT couldn’t verify the authenticity of the documents. The controversial solid waste processing plant was taken over by MC in 2020 over the firm’s failure to perform and violation of contract terms. Sharma claimed that an inquiry committee headed by him had found that the firm did not install machines it promised for the project under its detailed project report (DPR). “This was the reason that the firm couldn’t process the promised quantity of garbage,” he said. The committee was constituted in 2009 to examine the setting up of the plant and its working. Sharma also attacked the BJP for not acting on the findings of the inquiry committee. “They are only exploiting the issue now for their aggrandisement and didn’t act on it for the last six years when they were in power,” said Sharma. Bansal couldn’t be contacted for his comments.
21-12-2021||Chandigarh||Gharuan village gets nagar panchayat status||Two months after Punjab chief minister (CM) Charanjit Singh Channi announced to upgrade the historic Gharuan village as a nagar panchayat, the state government issued a notification to this effect on Monday. For now, the nagar panchayat will function from the Kharar municipal council office. Kharar MC executive officer (EO) Rajesh Sharma has been given the additional charge of Gharuan EO and Baldev Raj Verma has been appointed as the executive engineer of the new civic body.EO Sharma said they will be looking for a building for the nagar panchayat’s functioning near the village itself for the convenience of Gharuan residents, and hope to shift it by January next year. In his announcement, the chief minister had said that in view of the historical importance of the village, it will be upgraded to the status of a nagar panchayat to ensure unhindered progress, which would also be beneficial to the nearby villages. While announcing ₹3.25 crore for the renovation of the sarovar in the village, Channi had said all efforts will be made to beautify and develop the village as a tourist spot.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/gharuan-village-gets-nagar-panchayat-status-101640040572900.html
21-12-2021||Chandigarh||Track guests with international travel history, Chandigarh admn tells hotels||The UT administration has directed the owners, managers and care-takers of hotels, guesthouses and sarais to ascertain the international travel history of their guests for last 15 days. The order issued by district magistrate Vinay Pratap Singh said the Union ministry of health and family welfare had issued Covid-19-related guidelines for international arrivals that travellers from specified countries will be tested on arrival at airport and if tested negative, they will follow home quarantine for seven days. Re-test will be conducted on the eighth day of arrival in India and if negative, further self-monitoring of their health for next seven days will be followed. “There is apprehension that international travellers arriving in Chandigarh may breach the guidelines, thus posing danger to human life, health and safety,” he said. Therefore, all owners, managers and care-takers of hotels, guest houses and sarais must ascertain international travel history of their guests for the past 15 days at the time of their check-in, and prohibit their stay if above guidelines are not followed. The order will come into force with effect from zero hour on December 21, 2021, and will remain in effect up to and including February 18, 2022.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/track-guests-with-international-travel-history-chandigarh-admn-tells-hotels-101640040571536.html
21-12-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh MC polls: UT declares holiday for govt employees on December 24||The UT administration has declared December 24 as a public holiday in all government offices, corporations, institutions and industrial establishments under it on account of the municipal corporation elections.A UT spokesperson said, “This will also be a paid holiday in industrial shops, commercial establishments and for daily wage employees.”The Haryana government employees working in various departments, boards, corporations and public undertakings of the state government, who are registered voters in Chandigarh, will also be eligible to take a short leave on December 24 to exercise their franchise, an official spokesperson said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-mc-polls-ut-declares-holiday-for-govt-employees-on-december-24-101640040569104.html
21-12-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh MC polls: Tiwari trains guns at Kejriwal, roots for BJP candidates||“Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal is that politician who converted hundreds of lies into one truth, making people believe him,” Delhi member of Parliament Manoj Tiwari said on Monday.Tiwari was canvassing for BJP candidates in the city for the second time this week, ahead of the upcoming municipal corporation elections on December 24.Tiwari campaigned for Dalip Sharma (ward no. 3) at Bapu Dham colony, Davesh Moudgil (ward no. 4) at Faidan village, Rashi Bhasin (ward no. 10) in Sector 29, Kanwaljit Singh Rana (ward no. 33) at Burail, Ravinder Pathania (ward no. 29) in Sector 56 and Bharat Kumar ( ward no. 31) in Kajheri.While briefing a press conference, Tiwari brought up Kejriwal’s claims to end the mountains of Garbage in Dadumajra, and said, “Kejriwal should first clear the massive piles of garbage at the Gateway of Delhi. The AAP government is accused of embezzling ₹60,000 crore from the Delhi Jal Board. Due to the promptness of the BJP, the ₹13,000 crore scam regarding the construction of a hospital was exposed even before its conclusion.”“AAP, which has promised free water in Chandigarh, is selling water at manifold rates through marking slabs in Delhi, while 80% people are paying three times more electricity bill. He should detail how many electric buses are running in Delhi in his tenure,” Tiwari said, adding that “mohalla clinic” was a big flop during his reign, and health services in Delhi are completely poor.Tiwari also brought up the Delhi CM stopping pensions in Delhi, while appreciating the increase in old age and other pensions in BJP’s manifesto.SAD candidate returns to BJPThe election campaign of BJP candidate and mayor Ravikant Sharma, who is contesting from ward number 17, got a boost when Kulmeet Singh Sodhi, the party candidate contesting from this ward on Akali Dal ticket, withdrew his name in support of BJP.Sodhi, who was in BJP earlier as well, returned to the Saffron Party with the efforts of former BJP state president Sanjay Tandon. He said the interests of all sections have been kept in mind in the manifesto released recently by the BJP, which prompted his return. Speaking on the occasion, Tandon said that the BJP is marching towards victory by becoming stronger in the city.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-mc-polls-tiwari-trains-guns-at-kejriwal-roots-for-bjp-candidates-101640036250467.html
21-12-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh MC elections: Bansal promises pothole-free roads in 6 months||Pawan Bansal, former Union Minister, while addressing a public meeting in Sector 32, lambasted the BJP for hurting the pride of the people of the city by lowering the status of Chandigarh in all areas. He reiterated the resolve of the Chandigarh Congress to bring back the past glory of the city.The former minister further stated that the number one status of Chandigarh in terms of cleanliness, hygiene and sanitation shall be brought back. The city was once known the world over for its well planned and exquisite roads, but are now languishing in deplorable conditions. The city roads shall be made pothole free within six months, he added.Among those who spoke on the occasion were Manpreet Badal, Raj Kumar Verka, Fateh Jang Bajwa and Mohinder Singh Kaypee.“BJP has been falsely claiming that it has made the city worth living in by improving basic amenities and law and order situation, but the real situation is exactly the opposite. One can see piles of garbage, broken pavements and roads in poor state all over the city. In the past six years, BJP has brought down the city’s ranking from top to 66th in Swachh Survekshan. Presently, residents of the city are being crushed under the heavy burden of various taxes and water bills,” he asserted.General secretary of All India Congress Committee, Harish Chaudhary, while speaking on the occasion, said, “We will win the corporation elections with thumping majority and after coming in power, we will increase revenue from Centre as well as from other sources to minimise the burden on residents.” He further stated that Chandigarh shall develop an alternate mechanism for processing of 500 tonnes of garbage being generated in the city daily. As a result, the garbage dump at Dadumajra shall stop receiving the garbage. Thereafter, steps will be taken to slowly remove the legacy waste there.Cong promises to get rid of inflation“If you want to get rid of inflation, vote for Congress. Today, during BJP misrule, every commodity is getting costlier including diesel, petrol, cooking gas and groceries. Every common man in the country is badly affected financially due to the anti-people policies of the BJP-led government,” said Bhupinder Singh Hooda, former Haryana chief minister.While addressing a gathering in Sector 41 for Congress candidate Atinder Singh Robbi, Hooda said that when Pawan Kumar Bansal was member of Parliament from Chandigarh, he fought for the people of the city and for its development, but today, no one is raising a voice for the UT. The city has seen no adequate fund coming from the Centre, which shows the attitude of the people in power, he added .Among others , Pawan Kumar Bansal former Union minister; Amarjeet Singh Jeeti Sidhu, Mohali mayor and Bhupinder Singh Badheri were also present on the occasion.BJP trying to influence voters: Congress to ECThe Chandigarh Congress has complained to State Election Commission against BJP for influencing the voters while flouting rules. In a letter on Monday, Rajesh Sharma, the spokesperson of Chandigarh Congress, has brought into the commission’s notice that the BJP took out a procession of dozens of cars and motorcycles carrying the party’s flags in Sector 20 On December 19 to influence the voters.The letter further stated that almost all the bikers were without helmets and they had been raising slogans and creating ruckus on the roads, even causing inconvenience to the general public.A video grab has also been attached with a letter. The video and photos of the vehicle rally, aforementioned, is also shared by many BJP leaders on social media platforms, which is a matter of record, asserted Sharma.Loss in HP by-polls made BJP repeal farm laws: RathoreKuldeep Singh Rathore, president of the Himachal Pradesh Congress Committee, on Monday said that the fear of recent losses in Himachal Pradesh made the BJP Government repeal the farm laws, after not responding to a year of farmers’ protests and over 700 casualties. He was addressing a press conference at Congress Bhawan on Monday. Rathore added that the Modi government was forced to reduce excise duty on petrol and diesel after their resounding defeat in HP by-elections.Rathore, who has lived in Chandigarh for many years, lamented the miserable civic conditions in the city due to rampant corruption that prevailed in the corporation during the last six years.Reacting to the BJP leader and Union minister Anurag Thakur’s statement on the benefits of a double engine government , Rathore said, “The engine was running so fast that it was crushing people, and we mention in Himachal that this engine needed to have its brakes pulled. And we pulled the brakes.”He appealed to the Himachalis residing in Chandigarh to do the same thing they did in their home state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-mc-elections-bansal-promises-pothole-free-roads-in-6-months-101640035770575.html
21-12-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh Urban Festival to be organised from February 22-27||The Chandigarh Urban Festival will be organised in the city from February 20 to 27, 2022.The Chandigarh administration will support the RWAs, educational institutes, corporates, NGOs and regional, cultural and sports clubs to organise the festival.The theme of the week-long festival is “apna shehar, apna jashan” and aims to celebrate togetherness and love for City Beautiful. through various cultural and sports activities that reflect the true nature of Chandigarhians and represent the soul of the Chandigarh Tricity.This year, it has been decided that the festival will coincide with Azadi ka Amrut Mahotsav, to add to a nationalistic fervour and also with the annual rose festival to add colour to the vibrant atmosphere all across the city. There will be performances, competitions, exhibitions, food, music, art, theatre and sports as well as commercial stalls.Individuals as well as groups from tricity have been asked to submit their ideas and entries by January 20. After all the entries are received, a final calendar for the events selected and finalised will be prepared. Accordingly, further rehearsals and coordination with the selected event organisers will be undertaken. They have to be sent to urbanfestivalchandigarh@gmail.com.Prizes will be given away for various competitions during the festival week and also for carnival performances, tableaus and synchronised sky-lantern events on the finale on February 27. Certificates will be provided to all participants.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-urban-festival-to-be-organised-from-february-2227-101640035530658.html
21-12-2021||Chandigarh||UGC pay scales row: PU teachers start boycott of meetings||Continuing their strike over non-implementation of revised UGC pay scales by the Punjab government as per the seventh pay commission, teachers of Panjab University (PU) have started boycotting scheduled meetings as a mark of protest.The meeting of a panel regarding digitisation of the official records of the university, which was scheduled on Monday, was not held after members declined to attend amid ongoing suspension of academic activities by teachers in universities and colleges of Punjab and Chandigarh.Another meeting of a committee, which is scheduled to be held on Tuesday regarding implementation of reservation for persons with disabilities in house allotment, is also likely to get cancelled.According to the sources, Panjab University Teachers Association (PUTA) has conveyed to the dean university instruction (DUI) to cancel all meetings till December 25. PUTA president Mritunjay Kumar, said, “This is a part of the ongoing academic boycott announced by PFUCTO to press for the legitimate demands of teachers.”Last week, PUTA had asked teachers to suspend all meetings and exams. Protests by university and college teachers have already disrupted academic activities and semester exams of PU also had to be postponed.Teachers across five universities, 48 colleges and 145 aided colleges in Chandigarh and Punjab, under the banner of Punjab Federation of University and College Teachers Organisations (PFUCTO), had declared an indefinite protest on December 1 to demand immediate implementation of the revised scales as per the seventh pay commission and withdrawal of Punjab government’s decision to delink the pay scales from UGC.Teachers to intensify protestContinuing with their daily protests, PUTA held a dharna at the varsity campus on Monday as well, where teachers were asked to remain united and peaceful till the demands are met. Meanwhile, PFUCTO has also conveyed to the teachers’ bodies that they will intensify their agitation after December 24 if their demands are not met by then.
21-12-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: More people turning up at night shelters amid dip in mercury||With temperatures dipping in the city, people who find themselves without a roof on cold winter nights have started turning to the free night shelters which have been set up by the municipal corporation (MC).Ten night shelters have been set up at the same locations as last year including PGIMER and Sectors 16, 22, 32 and 43. They started coming up around a week back, and initially, only five or 10 people turned up every night. Now, the numbers have significantly gone up, as around 75 people stayed at the shelter in front of PGIMER on the intervening night of Saturday and Sunday.The enclosure here is the biggest and has been made by combining three tents together, with one only for men, one for families and one for women. Uttam Singh who works as a security guard here, said that due to the recent cold spell. more people are turning to these enclosures. “Most people who come here are either themselves getting treated at PGIMER or the family members of patients. They don’t stay the whole night, but come and go as they are called to the hospital. During the first day of dense fog in the city on Friday, we had 50 people turn up here.”Bandu Shah from Bijnore in Uttar Pradesh, who has been staying here since Friday, said this a great initiative by the authorities. “Earlier, I was getting a room in Nayagaon for over ₹200 and with the transport costs it would have been really expensive for me, but this will take care of all my problems.” said Shah, who is seeking treatment for mouth cancer.To sleep at the night shelter, people need to fill in their details like name, address and mobile phone number. A copy of the Aadhar Card is also needed, but the security officers said that if a person is able to provide the other details and isn’t intoxicated, they usually let them stay.Surjit Singh, who is the caretaker here at the shelter outside Government Medical College and Hospital in Sector 32, says that around 70 people can be accommodated at the facility with Covid protocols in place. “We provide facilities for sleeping along with blankets and the shelter is heated as well. We provide water and there are shops nearby where people can buy a little to eat which stay open during the day. A mobile toilet facility has also been provided next to the shelter and through the night a PCR vehicle also stays nearby.”MC officials who are in-charge of the project, said, “The 10 enclosures were made for ₹1.82 crores. While the tents were set up days in advance anticipating the cold weather, separate enclosures inside the shelter were made around Friday.” They added that these will run for the next couple of months till night temperatures stay low.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-more-people-turning-up-at-night-shelters-amid-dip-in-mercury-101640035172064.html
21-12-2021||Chandigarh||Panchkula: Despite tall promises, stray cattle menace persists||In the ongoing attempt to make Panchkula free of stray cattle, mayor Kulbhushan Goyal on Monday announced that the municipal corporation will purchase two cattle catchers worth ₹43.71 lakh and construct one more cow shelter to house 1,500 cattle.These are just some of the multiple solutions that have been proposed over the years to make Panchkula free of stray cattle and dogs, but the residents are still suffering. In fact, on some days, police can be seen managing stray cattle on highways rather than vehicles.In December, while contesting the elections, Goyal had promised to resolve the issue within six months of being voted into power. He had said a gaushala and dog home has already been established in Sundershanpur and will be inaugurated in January 2021. Also, making Panchkula free of stray cattle and dogs by March 31 was one of the 21 agendas cleared in one go at the General House meeting of the MC in January . But, the residents are still being bitten by stray dogs and reeling under the menace of stray cattle. SK Nayar, president of the Citizens’ Welfare Association, Panchkula, said, “Goyal had earlier assured the residents that the city will be made free of stray cattle by March 2021, but people are struggling with the problem. Nothing has been done to keep a check on stray dogs. Last week, a Sector 4 resident was brutally bitten by a stray dog as he was on his way to the market. The mayor should fulfil his promise as made in the election manifesto,” the association said.Speaking on the issue, Goyal said, “The process to acquire the cattle catchers has already started. With the help of these, the MC teams will take catch the cattle, which will then be sent to different cow shelters. Soon, a shelter for bulls will also be set up.”“This year, 1,170 stray cattle have been captured and sent to cow shelters. In January, the work of constructing another cow-shelter over eight acres will be started. It will have the capacity to keep 1,500 animals,” he added. Goyal also said that they are trying to make the dog pound functional.
21-12-2021||Chandigarh||Ambala: Five development projects worth ₹261 crore stuck in limbo||Five development projects worth ₹261 crore, all allotted to the same contractor by the public works department (B and R), have missed multiple deadlines, primarily due to shortage of labour.The FIFA-approved International Football Stadium project that started in April 2017 was expected to be completed in 2019 at a cost of ₹48.57 crore, but has missed several deadlines. Officials said that the project got delayed due to change in specifications and designs and is expected to get completed by January next year. The sports facility with a capacity of around 3,500 spectators is coming in place of the existing War Heroes Stadium and is being upgraded for ₹115 crore.Upgrading of the civil hospital from an existing 100-bed to 200 bed is also among projects that have been delayed. Being constructed behind the hospital, the estimated cost of the project is ₹28.81 crores and civil work is still incomplete. The project started in August 2019 with a date of completion within two years.Just next to this sub-divisional hospital, PWD is also constructing residential accommodation for doctors and paramedical staff at ₹25 crore. A visit to the site revealed that the foundation work of a few of the buildings remains partially incomplete, even as the deadline of completion – June 2021, has passed.The foundation work of the state’s first homoeopathy hospital and college in Chandpura village that started in early 2019 is still incomplete, despite a time limit of 36 months. During a site visit last week, not even a single labourer was found engaged in construction work. The estimated cost of the project is ₹55.85 croreThe regional science centre at Aryabhatta Vigyan Kendra next to the 1857 war memorial on NH-44, the foundation stone of which was laid by Haryana home minister Anil Vij in June 2019, is also among the delayed projects. A team of officials that visited the site last month had said that the project worth ₹36 crore is just 25% complete and is expected to be completed by June 2022, despite a time limit of 18 months.Sources said that the construction work of projects under the PWD like the 1857 war memorial, bank square and mini secretariat are moving at a faster pace, while these projects are running late despite missing several deadlines and notices by the administration.“Projects under other departments like multi-level parking, stormwater drainage, modernisation of Nicholson Road and all-weather swimming pool were stuck too, but have now gathered pace despite change in the specification in a few of them,” one of the persons quoted above, said.During a survey of the projects, a few labourers engaged at the sites highlighted that the work was halted in the recent past because they were not paid for the last two months.Deputy commissioner Vikram said that he is aware of the delay that arose due to labour issues with the contractor and they’ve already been given a notice to speed up the work.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ambala-five-development-projects-worth-261-crore-stuck-in-limbo-101640034755189.html
21-12-2021||Chandigarh||Ambala prison radio: Now, six women to work as RJs||Almost ten months after the prison radio of Ambala Central Jail started with six male inmates working as radio jockeys (RJs), the facility will soon have an equal number of female inmates taking up the role.Officials said that inspired by the content and the state of happiness emerging from the radio, the women inmates expressed their desire to be trained as RJs.Jail superintendent Lakbir Singh Brar said that the authorities have received a positive response from the inmates about the prison radio in the past few months. “Earlier, six inmates including a 65-year-old doctor and two brothers were engaged in its functioning since its inception in February. In the meantime, three were released. It is now time to open this platform for women too, who will be trained in the second phase along with six more male inmates,” Brar added.These inmates will be trained by Vartika Nanda, founder of the Tinka Tinka Foundation and head of the department of journalism at Lady Shri Ram College, Delhi University. Brar further said that the prison radio was helped inmates beat stress in the absence of visitors during the pandemic.Presently, the jail radio runs for three hours daily, offering a mix of self-created content and religious music. “Aap ki Farmaish” is the most popular programme, where the RJs take requests from the inmates and play songs of their choice.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ambala-prison-radio-now-six-women-to-work-as-rjs-101640034328620.html
21-12-2021||Chandigarh||Junior tennis tournament: Top seed Vansh enters second round||Top seed Vansh Nanda outplayed Hardil Khanduja 6-2,6-1 in the first round of the AITA National Ranking Championship for U-16 at the Roots Tennis Academy on Monday. In other matches, Hiren Malik overpowered Tanishq Jood 6-2,6-1; Robin Premchandani beat Arnav Chaudhary 6-3,6-1 and Anant Mudgil defeated Sahil Godara 6-1,6-1 to enter the second round. In the U-16 girls’ first round matches, Jannat Dudeja prevailed over Naisha Garg 6-4,6-3 and Rasha Dhaliwal beat Ayushi Prajapat 6-2, 6-1.U-16 first roundBoys: Vansh Nandal (1) [HR] bt Hardhik Khanduja [PB] 6-2,6-1; Hiren Malik [HR] bt Tanishq Jood [HR] 6-2,6-1; Robin Premchandani [CG] bt Arnav Chaudhary [TS] 6-3,6-1; Anant Mudgil [DL] bt Sahil Godara [RJ] 6-1,6-1; Fateh Singh [HR] bt Haarlem Singh [CH] 6-0,6-1; Svarmanya Singh [MH] bt Atharva Raj Balani [CG] 6-1,3-6,6-4; Akshat Dhull [HR] bt Priyansh Bathwal [UP] 6-3,6-2; Deepak Malik [DL] bt Uday Singh Batra 6-0,6-1; Krish Ajay Tyagi [KA] bt Anirudh Sangra [CH] 6-3,7-5; Satvik Singla [CH] bt Mehraab Singh [PB] 1-6,6-3,7-6(3); Keshav Dangi [CH] bt Arntya Ohlyan [HR] 3-6,6-2,6-1; Kartikya Tyagi [UP] bt Pragun Pragun Thakur [CH] 7-6(3),6-3; Siddhant Kishore [HR] bt Aniruddh Mukherjee [UP] 6-0,6-1; Armaan Walia [PB] bt Ranveer Chaudhary [HP] 6-1,6-2;Girls: Jannat Dudeja [CH] bt Naisha Garg [HR] 6-4,6-3; Rasha Dhaliwal [PB] bt Ayushi Prajapat [CH] 6-2, 6-1.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/junior-tennis-tournament-top-seed-vansh-enters-second-round-101640034088854.html
21-12-2021||Chandigarh||Delimitation commission serving interests of BJP: Jammu and Kashmir leaders||Leaders of various political parties in Jammu and Kashmir on Monday blamed Delimitation Commission for serving interests of the BJP and termed the draft report unacceptable and disappointing.After the meeting with Lok Sabha MP’s of J&K including NC president Farooq Abdullah, in Delhi, the Delimitation Commission in its draft has proposed six new seats for Jammu and one of Kashmir division.After the proposal of the commission will be accepted then Jammu province will have 43 assembly seats while Kashmir will have 47. The commission has asked associate members to submit their suggestions by December 31.This draft proposal by the delimitation commission has evoked a sharp response from the leaders of mainstream parties in J&K.“My apprehensions about the Delimitation Commission weren’t misplaced. They want to pitch people against each other by ignoring the population census and proposing six seats for one region and only one for Kashmir,” Former J&K chief minister and the PDP president Mehbooba Mufti said in a tweet.She blamed the Commission for serving interests of the BJP. People’s Conference chairman Sajjad Lone termed the recommendation of the commission unacceptable.“The recommendations of the delimitation commission are totally unacceptable. They reek of bias. What a shock for those who believe in democracy,” Sajjad Lone said in a tweet.“Misrepresenting and distorting the facts with malicious intention! Very misleading statement. We have clearly expressed our resentment over the draft of the Delimitation Commission, the biased process of seat sharing. The party will not be a signatory to this report,” NC said in a tweet.NC vice president Omar Abdullah also termed the recommendations as unacceptable and disappointing.“The draft recommendation of the J&K delimitation commission is unacceptable. The distribution of newly created assembly constituencies with 6 going to Jammu & only 1 to Kashmir is not justified by the data of the 2011 census,” tweeted Omar Abdullah.J&K Apni Party while rejecting the proposal of the delimitation commission sought intervention of centre government.“This is outrightly unacceptable to us. Apni Party demands a fair delimitation exercise without any bias, taking population and districts as the base. We strongly demand the intervention from the Centre,” said Apni Party president Altaf Bukhari. JK’s former jaw secretary, Mohammad Ashraf Mir said that one constituency has been carved out for 1,25,082 people in Jammu Division. “For Kashmir Division, the same constituency has been established for 1,46,563 people. In effect, 10,09,621 people of the Valley have been disenfranchised.”The Home Minister Amit Shah has already made it clear that after the process of delimitation will be completed, elections could be held in UT.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/delimitation-commission-serving-interests-of-bjp-jammu-and-kashmir-leaders-101640033670676.html
21-12-2021||Chandigarh||Kashmir’s Hangul’s population shows marginal increase: Census||The biennial population census of the unique Kashmiri royal stag, vernacularly known as the Hangul, has shown a marginal increase in its population, but has indicated a skewed male-female and fawn-female ratio.Hangul once ruled the Valley but has become a critically endangered species with sightings mostly reported in the Srinagar’s Dachigam National Park.The results of population monitoring exercise conducted in April this year show a marginal increase in population from 2019 estimates - 237 in 2019 to 261 in 2021.“However, there is no considerable increase in population numbers. The basic demographic ratios of male: female and fawn: female ratios are skewed,” the latest census published last month by the department of wildlife protection said.The last viable population of Hangul (cervus hanglu hanglu) in the Indian sub-continent exists only in the protected Dachigam National Park, a vast mountainous 141 sq km sanctuary on the outskirts of Srinagar, where Hangul grazed in hordes before the start of militancy in 1989. Lately, there have been a few sightings in connected areas outside the park in south Kashmir but their number is believed to be negligible.The species has been placed in the ‘critically endangered’ category by the International Union for Conservation of Nature (IUCN), a Schedule I Species in Indian Wildlife Protection Act 1972 and is the only survivor of the red deer group in the Indian sub-continent. A population census is conducted every two years.Officials said that the present population monitoring exercise was carried out in the first week of April 2021.The census revealed that the number of Hangul’s males per 100 females was 12.6 in 2021 down from 15.3 in 2019. The number of fawns per 100 females has increased to 13.4 in 2021 from 9 in 2019.The ratios ideally should have been 40-50 males/100 females and above 60 fawns/100 females.“The recent scientific studies on the current Hangul population trend have indicated that the species could go extinct if serious management and conservation interventions are not made immediately. The studies indicate that besides biotic interferences, some of the major ecological issues, concerning the decline in the population and long-term conservation and survival of the Hangul are low breeding and disturbed viability,” the census report said.In the past decade, the population appears to have mostly stabilised but not improved. It was 218 in 2011, 183 in 2015 and 214 in 2017 which has improved to 237 in 2019 and now to 261 in 2021.“Hangul population is stable but there is no considerable improvement in population because of the various concerns,” the census report said and pointed out factors like habitat fragmentation and poaching, livestock grazing, predation, ecological threats and disturbed corridors and landscapes as its reasons.Poached for its meat, antlers and skin, the deer’s population dropped below 200 in the early 1990s from 800-900 in 1988 after insurgency paralysed the state administration. It had a thriving population of 3,000-5,000 in the 1900s.However, the poachers were forced out when militancy reached its peak in the mid-1990s and militants and the army battled each other deep in the forests, the natural abode of the shy animal.However, wildlife experts are concerned as to why their numbers are not increasing despite three decades of conservation efforts.The census report mentions that a conservation action plan (CAP), aimed at connecting the erstwhile habitat areas of Hangul, has been formulated and needs to be approved.“Landscape-level planning needs to be strengthened further to connect the erstwhile habitats of Hangul on the northern side i.e. Gurez and Tulel. The aim of the plan is to stop the disturbed trends of population of the species,” it said.The aspect of increasing the spread of Hangul to outside Dachigam holds some promise.“The recent sightings of Hangul based on camera trap evidence in Tral Wildlife Sanctuary (in south Kashmir) is encouraging, 12 individuals were camera trapped in the recent winter season,” the report said.“Likewise, the photographic evidence captured by the oﬀicials of the department of wildlife protection in the Wangat Conservation Reserve also shows that the habitats outside the Dachigam National Park can be promising to hold a contiguous population of Hangul,” the report said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/kashmirs-hangul-s-population-shows-marginal-increase-census-101640033669124.html
21-12-2021||Chandigarh||Two JeM militant associates arrested in Jammu and Kashmir’s Pulwama||Police on Monday claimed to have arrested two terrorist associates in Pulwama along with arms and ammunition.Police said the arrested militant associates were affiliated with Jaish-e-Mohammad militant group.Police spokesman said that on specific input, police along with the 55RR and 182BN CRPF apprehended terrorist associates Umer Ramzan of Brabandina and Javid Ah Mala of Khelan along with incriminating materials, including ammunition were recovered from their possession.“During the preliminary investigation, it was revealed that both the arrested terrorist associates were in touch with JeM commanders and were involved in the transportation of arms and ammunition. Besides, they were providing shelter and other logistic support to the active terrorists operating in Awantipora and Tral areas,” the spokesman said.He said a case under relevant sections of law has been registered in Police Station Litter and further investigation has been taken up.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/two-jem-militant-associates-arrested-in-jammu-and-kashmir-s-pulwama-101640033610971.html
21-12-2021||Chandigarh||Jammu and Kashmir admn, Centre face criticism over power privatisation move||The administration in Jammu and Kashmir and the Central government is facing increasing criticism for the decision of privatisation of the power sector and calling of the army following the strike of power development department (PDD) employees since Friday night plunged major areas of the union territory into darkness.Mainstream as well as separatist organisations have castigated government’s decision to privatise the PDD department’s assets and proposal to merge JKPDD into the Power Grid Corporation of India. The employees’ strike and the administration’s intransigence have put thousands of J&K residents to extreme hardships amid bone-chilling temperatures and Covid-19 pandemic as hundreds of patients are struggling to keep on to their oxygen concentrators.People’s Democratic Party president Mehbooba Mufti connected the issue with the Government of India’s decision of revocation of Article 370.“Bringing the Army into such matters has further exposed their fake good governance narrative and ensure that people here live in perpetual fear of the jackboot. Such hare-brained tactics and policies will only deepen the sense of alienation and suffocation that people of J&K feel,” Mufti said in a tweet.The administration in Jammu on Sunday sought the army’s help in the restoration of the essential services by provisioning manpower to man critical electricity stations and water supply sources.National Conference vice-president Omar Abdullah said it was the failure of the government in J&K.“The army has been called to operate the power infrastructure in the Jammu division of J&K. There no bigger admission of failure for a civilian administration than to call upon the army, it means a total breakdown of governance has been accepted by the J&K government,” he said late on Sunday night.On Monday he took on Union power minister RK Singh’s claims that only 15-20% of feeders are affected in Jammu and there is no situation of blackout.“Mantriji, J&K stretches beyond Jammu city and the plains of Jammu. Can you please find out what is happening in the far-flung areas of Jammu? J&K also includes Kashmir and things are not nearly as rosy as your answer would suggest,” Abdullah said on Twitter.The All Parties Hurriyat Conference led by Mirwaiz Umar Farooq expressed serious concern at the J&K authority’s decision to privatise assets of the power Department J&K and merge it with the Power Grid Corporation of India.“At no other place in India has such kind of a merger taken place as the authorities are doing here. In this manner it becomes obvious that the policy of seizure of natural resources of J&K by the Government of India continues, naturally leading to anxiety and unease among people and fear for the loss of their resources,” the Hurriyat said in a statement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/jammu-and-kashmir-admn-centre-face-criticism-over-power-privatisation-move-101640033550065.html
21-12-2021||Chandigarh||Gupkar group to hold meet at Farooq Abdullah’s Jammu residence to discuss ‘expansion plans’||The People’s Alliance for Gupkar Declaration (PAGD) will be holding an important meeting in Jammu to discuss the “expansion plans” of the alliance in UT’s winter capital.The meeting also comes in the backdrop of the NC’s decision to participate in the meeting of the delimitation commission. The NC has decided to take part in the meeting of the delimitation commission that will pave the way for the holding of elections in the UT after the process will be completed.The meeting is being held at the Jammu residence of NC president Farooq Abdullah on Tuesday and will be attended by all the top leaders of the alliance, including the PDP president Mehbooba Mufti.PAGD spokesman Mohammad Yusuf Tarigami said the meeting is part of a the programme to discuss the expansion of the alliance in the Jammu region. “This is the second time when the PAGD is meeting in Jammu. Though we don’t have any special invitee, the PAGD will seriously think to initiate dialogue with people of all three regions - Jammu, Kashmir and Ladakh,” he said.Tarigami said they have to initiate dialogue with all stakeholders, including civil society. The PAGD had already held meetings in Ladakh as well as in Jammu last year, however, the fresh meeting is aimed to test the response of political groups in the Jammu region. In the last few weeks, NC, PDP and senior Congress leader Ghulam Nabi Azad held a series of successfully rallies in the Jammu region which has given the PAGD leadership a ‘hope’ that they can bring several groups of the region on board in its fight against the restoration of the Article 370. Several alliance leaders say that even people in Jammu as well as Ladakh have now realised the importance of Article 370 and the special status.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/gupkar-group-to-hold-meet-at-farooq-abdullah-s-jammu-residence-to-discuss-expansion-plans-101640033548785.html
21-12-2021||Chandigarh||High court judge should probe Golden Temple sacrilege: Sukhbir Badal||Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) president Sukhbir Singh Badal on Monday demanded a judicial inquiry into the recent incident of the sacrilege attempt at Harmandar Sahib in Amritsar. Sukhbir, who was in Fazilka district’s Jalalabad, said the Congress government was playing politics on a sensitive issue of desecration, giving little importance to unravel the conspiracy behind the incident. “Instead of a police probe, the state government should have got the matter investigated by a sitting high court judge. There is need to get to the bottom of the conspiracy,” he said. “The Congress government has not made any conclusive efforts to bring justice in the earlier sacrilege cases. Repetition of similar incidents is happening since the perpetrators of the previous cases were not identified. The Congress leadership has not learnt any lesson from the past,” said the SAD chief. SAD chief to contest from Jalalabad Sukhbir, who represents the Ferozepur Lok Sabha seat, said he will contest the forthcoming assembly elections from Jalalabad seat, which he had represented thrice, including in the 2009 bypoll. “On winning the Jalalabad elections, I will vacate the Ferozepur seat and a Rai Sikh leader will be fielded from the Parliament constituency,” said Sukhbir. Rai Sikh, a Scheduled Caste community, has a sizeable presence in the Jalalabad segment that is a part of the Ferozepur Lok Sabha constituency. After winning the 2019 Ferozepur seat, Sukhbir had vacated Jalalabad. In the bypoll for Jalalabad seat two years ago, the SAD had fielded Raj Singh Dibbipura but he lost by over 16,000 votes to Congress candidate Raminder Awla.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/high-court-judge-should-probe-golden-temple-sacrilege-sukhbir-badal-101640033493310.html
21-12-2021||Chandigarh||Panjab University chancellor notifies 35 members to senate||The Vice-President of India, who is also the chancellor of Panjab University, has notified 35 members to the varsity senate, including two members nominated from the Punjab legislative assembly.Fifteen members, who were elected from the registered graduate constituency, have also been notified. A gazette notification with the list of members was issued on Monday. The term of the notified members is until October 31, 2024. Although the senate polls ended in October, the notification was still awaited. The notification for the 36 nominated members was issued in September.The notification issued, however, does not carry the names of six members elected from the constituency of faculties and the eight members elected from the constituency of the teachers of affiliated arts colleges.Among the notified members from registered graduate constituency are Balbir Chand Josan, Dayal Partap Singh Randhawa, Harjodh Singh, Jagwant Singh, Kapil Sharma, Lajwant Singh Virk, Manish Wayyar, Mukesh Kumar Arora, Naresh Gaur, Prabhjit Singh, Ravinder Singh, Sandeep Singh, Sanjeev Kumar Bandlish, Simranjit Singh Dhillon and Varinder Singh.From the constituency of professors of university teaching departments, professor Jatinder Grover and professor Rajat Sandhir have been notified, while Dr Dinesh Kumar and Dr Parveen Goyal have been notified from the constituency of associate and assistant professors of university teaching departments.Three members have been notified from the constituency of principals of technical and professional colleges and three from staff of technical and professional colleges. Moreover, eight members from the constituency of heads of affiliated arts colleges have also been notified.
21-12-2021||Other||Gurugram: One dead as bus rams scooter in Farrukhnagar||A 45-year-old man was killed when a speeding bus allegedly rammed a scooter he was riding in Farrukhnagar on Sunday evening. According to police, the collision took place around 5.15pm near Sultanpur National Park, 15km from the city on Gurugram-Farrukhnagar Road, when the victim was on the way to Gurugram from Farrukhnagar. The bus driver was speeding and coming from Gurugram towards Sultanpur, police said, adding that the bus driver fled the spot as soon as people started gathering. The victim, identified as Satbir Singh of Silani village in Jhajjar, was rushed to Shree Guru Gobind Singh Tricentenary Hospital in Farrukhnagar by the passersby, where he died while undergoing treatment, police said. Police said that the victim lived with his wife and mother in Farrukhnagar in a rented accommodation and used to make bamboo chicks and partitions. He was going to collect payment from a client when the accident took place, they said. Preet Pal Sangwan, assistant commissioner of police (crime), said some passersby who had stopped to help noted down the registration number of the bus. “The bus driver fled the spot soon after the incident. We are trying to identify him with the help of the vehicle’s registration number,” he said. Ram Kumar, one of the eyewitnesses, said that the bus driver lost control as he was talking over phone. “The bus driver was speeding. Before he could take control of the vehicle, it rammed the scooter,” he said. A case under Indian Penal Code sections 279 (rash driving) and 304A (causing death by negligence) was registered at Farrukhnagar police station on Monday, said police.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/gurugram-one-dead-as-bus-rams-scooter-in-farrukhnagar-101640032108515.html
21-12-2021||Chandigarh||Justice delivered on spot since people have lost faith in the system: Sidhu on sacrilege lynching||Punjab Congress president Navjot Singh Sidhu has said that attempts are being made to disrupt the communal harmony of Punjab under a political strategy to create fear in the mind of one community for vote politics. He said that had those behind the 2015 sacrilege of Guru Granth Sahib been punished, no one would have dared to repeat at Darbar Sahib or anywhere else. Sidhu reached Behbal Kalan village in Faridkot district on Monday and joined Sukhraj Singh, son of 2015 Behbal Kalan police firing victim Bhagwan Krishan Singh, who is sitting on an indefinite protest against the delay in delivery of justice. “In the recent sacrilege attempt, people delivered justice on the spot. This shows people have lost faith in the system. If exemplary punishment was given to behind the 2015 sacrilege incidents, no one would have dared to repeat,” he said. Sidhu said he will raise with the government the issue of job to Ajit Singh who had sustained bullet injuries in the Kotkapura firing incident on October 14, 2015. “No one is more suitable for job on compassionate ground. But, unfortunately, jobs were given to sons of powerful people and not to Ajit,” he added. 
21-12-2021||Chandigarh||68k migratory birds descend on Kangra’s Pong dam wetland for winter sojourn||Even as winters are yet to peak in northwest India, more than 68,000 birds are already roosting and nesting at the Maharana Pratap Sagar or Pong Dam Wetland, in the picturesque Kangra valley of Himachal Pradesh.The number of winged visitors from Central Asia and the Trans-Himalayan region has almost doubled since mid-November when over 34,000 birds were recorded at the wetland.As per the fortnightly estimation conducted by the wildlife wing of the state forest department, a total of 68,188 birds of at least 88 species have flocked to the swamps around the lake.Fifteen teams of forest officials and volunteers were deployed to conduct the census. The annual census to estimate the total number is conducted in January-end when winters are on peak.“The bar-headed goose, the world’s highest-flying bird, is keeping its date with the Pong Lake with their number reaching 27,139 which is almost 40% of the total count,” said divisional forest officer (wildlife), Hamirpur, Rahul Rohane.Among other species recorded in large number were common coot (12,867), northern pintail (5,291), common teal (4,445), common pochard (4,229), little cormorant (3,339), ruddy shelduck (1,654) and gadwall (1,118).Spot-billed duck (948), northern shoveler (423), common moorhen (420), tern (341), Eurasian wigeon (594), black-winged stilt (209), brown-headed gull (185), river lapwing (269), little grebe (253), great cormorant (268), purple moorhen (370) and barn swallow (425) have a considerable number which is expected to rise as the season advances.The number of migratory birds crosses the 1 lakh-mark at the peak of the winter.The birds return in March to their native land such as Siberia, China, Tibet, Mongolia and Iraq.More than 1, 08,578 birds of 96 species were counted last year at the Pong Dam Lake Wildlife Sanctuary.Of them, water-dependent migratory birds were 1,01,431 of 51 species and water-dependent resident birds were 6,433 of 29 species. As many as 714 birds of 16 other species were also recorded.Pong Dam Lake, created after a dam was built on the Beas River, is spread in an area of 24,529 hectares (60,610 acres) of which 15,662 hectares (38,700 acres) is the wetland.It was declared a wildlife sanctuary by the state government in 1986 and the Central Ministry of Environment declared it as a national wetland in 1994. It got a status of Ramsar Site in 2002.Ramsar site is a wetland designated to be of international importance under the Ramsar Convention international treaty of 1971.
21-12-2021||Chandigarh||Himachal cabinet approves new pay scales for government employees||The Himachal Pradesh cabinet on Monday decided to grant revised pay scales to state government employees, which are about 2 lakh in numbers, with effect from January 1, 2016.The employees would get the salary of January 2022 payable in February 2022 in the revised pay scale.This would put an additional burden of about ₹4,000 crore annually on the state exchequer. The state government has already provided interim relief of about ₹5000 crore to the employees as part of the arrears. After the revised pay scales due to higher fixation of pay of about 1.05 lakh New Pension Scheme (NPS) employees, ₹ 260 crore would be spent as government contribution as 6 years arrears under NPS. The decision was also taken to increase the salary of contract employees.The cabinet further gave its nod to promulgate Himachal Pradesh Swarn Jayanti (Legacy Cases Resolution) Scheme, 2021, for settlement of arrears of tax, fee, interest, penalty, pending for recovery or are pending in the appellate forums or may accrue in future as a result of the disposal of pending tax assessment under the various enactments.This would also address the tax dues trapped in the cases that have not been assessed so far as well as those cases where arrears have been declared under the Himachal Pradesh Land Revenue Act, 1954. This would help in the redressal of over 1.68 lakh cases.It also provided it’s in-principle approval for establishing Drone Flying Training School at Government ITI, Shahpur, in Kangra district and authorised the Department of Technical Education to finalise the terms of engagement with Indira Gandhi Rashtriya Uran Akademi for signing an MoU.It gave its nod to set up a separate Kidney/renal transplantation cell under the department of general surgery at Dr Rajendra Prasad Government Medical College, Tanda, in Kangra district along with the creation of requisite posts.The Cabinet gave its approval to create and fill up several posts of different categories in Trauma Centre at Shri Lal Bahadur Shastri Government Medical College and Hospital, Ner Chowk in Mandi district.It gave its consent to fill up five posts of the Himachal Pradesh Administrative Services through Himachal Pradesh Joint Competitive Examinations-2021 on regular basis.It also gave its nod to issue a letter of intent in favour of M/s Mayur Industries Village Neri in Sundernagar tehsil of Mandi district for setting up of fruit-based wine and cider factory.The Cabinet gave its consent to the draft of ‘Swarn Jayanti Gram Swarojgar (Parivahan) Yojana’ to allow unemployed youth to ply 18-seater vehicles various routes in rural at concessional tax rates, which would help strengthen the transportation services.Cabinet also decided to sub-Tehsil Holi in Chamba district to Tehsil in Chamba district.The Cabinet gave its consent to create six new patwar circles in Manali tehsil of Kullu district by reorganizing the existing patwar circles.It also gave its nod to transfer 0-76-79 hectares of land at Palauhra in Jawali tehsil of Kangra district in favour of Ministry of Defence, Government of India, for construction of ECHS Polyclinic at free of cost by charging ₹1 as token money.
21-12-2021||Chandigarh||AAP to contest all seats in Shimla MC poll: State party chief||The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) will contest all seats in the upcoming Shimla Municipal Corporation (SMC) elections, party’s state chief Anoop Kesari said in a press conference held in the state capital. Kesari also said that the AAP will contest all the 68 seats in the assembly elections slated at the end of next year.“We are all geared up for the civic body polls in Shimla and for this, the party also has launched a membership drive,” he said, adding that AAP was continuously raising the issue of unemployment, inflation and other problems being faced by the common masses.He said if the AAP forms a government in the state, free electricity units, water and health facilities will be provided to the people of the state on the analogy of Delhi.Slamming the state BJP government, Kesari claimed that the Jai Ram Thakur regime was trying to scuttle the voices of opponents and the lathicharge on AAP workers during a peaceful protest at Dharamshala during the winter session of the assembly was just an example of it.He said that during the winter session of the state assembly on December 13, the AAP workers were protesting peacefully near the Vidhan Sabha on the issue related to people.However, the BJP government lathicharged the protesters, in which several AAP workers were injured, he alleged.He also said that the Himachal government has failed to live up to the expectations of the people and pushed the state into a debt trap.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/aap-to-contest-all-seats-in-shimla-mc-poll-state-party-chief-101640031689781.html
21-12-2021||Chandigarh||Jai Ram Thakur meets PM Modi, invites him to celebrations over 4 years of BJP rule in Himachal||Amidst speculations of changes in government, chief minister Jai Ram Thakur met Prime Minister Narendra Modi in New Delhi and extended him an invite for the public meetings and other functions being organised to mark the completion of his four years’ rule in Himachal Pradesh on December 27. Jai Ram flew to Delhi straight from Mandi and returned back to the state capital. He along with party office-bearers had held a meeting in Mandi before he flew to Delhi on Sunday. “Nothing much inference should be drawn from my visit to Delhi. I had gone to formally extend my invite for functions planned for four years’ celebrations of the BJP rule in Himachal Pradesh,” said Jai Ram. He said Modi will preside over the meeting in Mandi besides attending two different functions proposed in Mandi. He will lay the foundation stone of the ₹6,946 crore Renuka dam and ₹1,600 crore Sawra Kuddu hydel project will be inaugurated. The Prime Minister will lay the foundation and inaugurate projects worth ₹11,000 crore,” he said. This is Jai Ram Thakur’s second meeting with the Prime Minister.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/jai-ram-thakur-meets-pm-modi-invites-him-to-celebrations-over-4-years-of-bjp-rule-in-himachal-101640031688520.html
21-12-2021||Chandigarh||RSS chief Mohan Bhagwat meets Dalai Lama in McLeodganj||Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) chief Mohan Bhagwat had an audience with Tibetan spiritual leader the Dalai Lama at the latter’s residence in McLeodganj on Monday morning.Bhagwat was accompanied by senior RSS functionary Indresh Kumar.After the audience with the Dalai Lama, the visiting RSS leaders also met Sikyong (president) Penpa Tsering, ministers of the 16th Kashag (cabinet) of exile government and, speaker of exile parliament Khenpo Sonam Tenphel.During the meeting, Sikyong expressed gratitude to the Indian government and the people of India for their hospitality and support to the Dalai Lama and the Tibetan people.Interacting with the media after the meeting, Tsering said it was natural that when Mohan Bhagwat is in Dharamshala, he meets the Dalai Lama.“RSS chief Mohan Bhagwat’s visit indeed came about after His Holiness started granting in-person meetings since December 15,” he said.The Sikyong said that though the conversation between the Dalai Lama and the RSS delegates was not disclosed, it could be about various issues concerning the world peace and welfare of mankind.Meanwhile, Indresh Kumar said that the Dalai Lama told them that India was the model of religious harmony and that India should make it known to the world.He added that Bhagwat also expressed India’s support to Tibet.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/rss-chief-mohan-bhagwat-meets-dalai-lama-in-mcleodganj-101640031568989.html
21-12-2021||Other||Gurugram: Cab driver found dead with bullet wound in Sector 38||A 30-year-old cab driver was found dead with a gunshot wound to his head in a vacant plot in Sector 38 on Monday morning, police said. The deceased was identified as Hari Om, a resident of Barani village in Jhajjar who lived in a rented room in Islampur village for the last two years, police said.Aman Yadav, assistant commissioner of police (Sadar), said that after getting information about the body, a team from Sadar police station was sent to the spot. The deceased’s brother Manmohan Singh, who filed a complaint at Sadar police station, told police that his brother was in an estranged relationship with his wife and they lived separately. “We are conducting an investigation and scanning CCTV footage from the area to identify the movement of deceased and suspects. The motive behind the murder is not ascertained yet,” said Yadav, adding that teams have been formed to trace the suspects. Police said they will also question the victim’s wife and in-laws and will check their location to confirm if they were in the city and around the spot at the time of the incident. “The mobile phone of the deceased will be scanned to know about the last person he had contacted. Then there will be some clarity in the case,” said Yadav. A case under Section 302 (murder) of Indian Penal Code and relevant sections of the Arms Act was registered at Sadar police station on Monday evening. The body was handed over to the family members after the post mortem which revealed that he died due to excessive internal bleeding, police said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/gurugram-cab-driver-found-dead-with-bullet-wound-in-sector-38-101640031508648.html
21-12-2021||Other||Punjab exempts 40,000 outstanding VAT, CST cases||Chandigarh The Punjab government on Monday decided to exempt around 40,000 statutory form-related outstanding cases under central sales tax/value added tax (VAT), of over 48,000 cases for financial years 2014-15, 2015-16 and 2016-17. Chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi had announced the decision at the Progressive Punjab Investors Summit in Ludhiana in November. A spokesperson of the state taxation department said the department had completed assessment in the remaining 8,500-odd cases for FY 2014-15 and initiated the process to settle these cases by asking traders to deposit just 30% of the tax liability. Giving more relief, they will only have to deposit 20% of the tax liability during the current fiscal and the balance 80% by the end of next financial year. The spokesperson added that taxation department had also initiated a process for faceless administration of the GST and the VAT, under which traders and industrialists do not have to be physically present before taxation officers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/punjab-exempts-40-000-outstanding-vat-cst-cases-101640030908527.html
21-12-2021||Other||Rain likely in Gurugram over weekend, cold wave to continue: IMD||The city may witness light rain at isolated places over the weekend as an impact of western disturbances in the Himalayan region, the India Meteorological Department predicted on Monday, adding that cold wave conditions will continue on Tuesday. A weather bulletin issued on Monday by the Meteorological Centre Chandigarh, a regional centre of IMD, said that two western disturbances will occur in quick succession, first from December 22 and second from December 24, and are very likely to affect northwest India.“Due to the western disturbances, there is probability of rain in the plains at isolated places during the weekend. Dense fog is predicted from December 23-26 in the south Haryana region which includes Gurugram and Faridabad as there will be high moisture content in the air due to the western disturbances. For the next 48 hours, there would be no large change in the minimum temperatures, but a gradual rise by three to five degrees Celsius is expected thereafter as winds would be easterly, which are usually warmer,” said Manmohan Singh, director of Meteorological Centre Chandigarh. A western disturbance is a wind originating over the Mediterranean region, which carries moisture in the form of rainfall or snowfall, while travelling up to northern regions. According to IMD, on Monday, Gurugram recorded a maximum temperature of 21.4°C, which was one degree below normal. The minimum temperature in the city was 7°C, which is normal for this time of the season. The cold wave conditions will continue for another 24 hours, IMD said, adding that ground frost conditions in the morning hours in isolated pockets are very likely over Punjab and Haryana during the next two days. According to the officials, cold wave conditions happen when minimum temperature is either 10 degrees or below or when the difference between the normal range of minimum temperature and the actual recorded temperature is 4°C.According to the weekly forecast of IMD, the minimum temperature over the next two days will remain around 8°C and is likely increase up to 12°C by December 26. The maximum temperature in the city is likely to increase to 25°C by December 25, but on December 26, the maximum temperature may drop and will be around 20°C, the IMD said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/rain-likely-in-gurugram-over-weekend-cold-wave-to-continue-imd-101640030788511.html
21-12-2021||Other||Had Cong govt punished Bargari accused, sacrilege will have stopped||Hoshiarpur: Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) leader Bhagwant Mann said that had the Congress government punished the Bargari sacrilege accused, incidents of desecration at the Golden Temple and in the Kapurthala village would not have happened.“Had the accused been prosecuted, no one would have dared indulge in such heinous activities,” he said while addressing a rally in Mukerian on Monday.He added that tha incidents of sacrilege took place due to political ill will. Stating that no one could escape God’s judgment, he said that former chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh fell from grace because he had taken a false oath on Gutka Sahib. The Badal clan would meet the same fate for misusing religion for their vested interests, he added.“The Guru does not need a saviour as, he is himself the savior. His ways are silent, but he will definitely do the justice”, he stated. Mann said the Badals took shelter in religion whenever they faced a threat to their authority.“Just as a squirrel hides behind a photo frame on the wall during the day and comes out at night to feed on insects, Badals hide behind the veil of religion after committing wrongs and come out at favourable time,” he alleged.He alleged that due to the connivance of Captain Amarinder Singh and Badals, the guilty of Bargari case could not be brought to book. He said the formation of a special investigation team (SIT) to probe Bargari sacrilege and related incidents was just an eyewash.He appealed to the people to vote for AAP in the coming elections if they wanted a clean and empathetic government.Taking a jibe at SAD patriarch, he said, “Parkash Singh Badal, 94, is seeking another chance to serve. I advise him to take rest, play cards with his age group and let the new generation serve people.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/had-cong-govt-punished-bargari-accused-sacrilege-will-have-stopped-101640030548577.html
21-12-2021||Chandigarh||2015 sacrilege cases: Ready to probe dera follower’s murder in Nabha jail: CBI to HC||The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) has told the high court that it is ready to take over the probe into the murder of Dera Sacha Sauda follower Mohinder Pal Singh Bittu in Nabha jail in June 2019. Responding to the plea from his wife Santosh Kumari, the CBI has said that in view of sensitivity of the matter, particularly allegations against politicians and senior police functionaries, if high court is pleased to entrust further investigation, the same will be done by it. The CBI has further told the court that Bittu during the investigation of three sacrilege cases stated before the agency that he was forced by the Punjab Police to make confessional statement. During the investigation, his complicity has not come on record. He was arrested in July 2018 and interrogated. He denied his complicity and said that he and his family members were tortured by the Punjab Police, the CBI has said. The response came to the plea from Santosh who had alleged that senior Punjab Police officers were involved in the conspiracy of her husband’s murder that was not probed. Bittu, who was booked in the 2015 sacrilege cases and arrested three years later, was killed by two inmates Maninder Singh and Gursewak Singh, both serving life terms for murder, on June 22, 2019, with iron rods. On September 5 that year, the police had filed a charge sheet against four people, including the attackers. Thereafter, a Patiala court framed charges against them and the trial is underway. She had submitted that Bittu was brutally killed in a larger conspiracy using judicial tools when he was lodged in the Nabha jail and the murder was committed in collusion between cops and politicians who were named by Bittu in the note, she had submitted, demanding that further investigation into his murder be conducted by the CBI.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/2015-sacrilege-cases-ready-to-probe-dera-follower-s-murder-in-nabha-jail-cbi-to-hc-101640030308417.html
21-12-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab Police register FIR in ADGP Asthana’s letter leak episode||Punjab Police on Monday registered an FIR in connection with the leak of a letter purportedly written by Bureau of Investigation (BoI) chief ADGP SK Asthana to then Punjab officiating DGP Iqbal Preet Singh Sahota wherein he reportedly had expressed his inability to register a case against former Akali minister Bikram Majithia in a drug case. Facing embarrassment over the leak, chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi last week had announced that a case will be registered.The FIR was registered under Section 409 (criminal breach of trust by public servant) of the IPC and 72 of IT Act, 2020, against unidentified person(s) on the complaint of BoI’s assistant inspector general at the cyber crime police station in Mohali.In the letter, Asthana had taken a stand against booking senior Shiromani Akali Dal leader and former minister Bikram Singh Majithia on the basis of a 2018 special task force (STF) report lying in a sealed cover with the high court. The four pages of the December 11 letter addressed to the DGP were shared with the media from a foreign telephone number. The letter was sent to various media houses and also posted on Twitter under an account named ‘Hawk Mark’.Asthana wrote to the DGP before availing two-day medical leave and two days later he was admitted to a Mohali hospital amid reports of pressure on him to give nod for action against Majithia.Asthana had sought clarity if it would be legally tenable to act upon the report of the STF head when the same lies in sealed cover with the high court.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-police-register-fir-in-adgp-asthana-s-letter-leak-episode-101640029888463.html
21-12-2021||Other||{Punjab DGP appointment} UPSC meeting today, confusion as state seeks change in cut-off date||Chandigarh On the eve of the crucial meeting of the Union Public Service Commission (UPSC) in New Delhi on Tuesday on the appointment of a regular Punjab director general of police (DGP), confusion prevails on the cut-off date to be considered for the selection of names of police officers on the panel. Even though, the state and the UPSC had mutually agreed on the date as October 4, the state government wrote to the UPSC last week (December 18) asking that the cut-off date be consider as September 30. It is not clear whether the UPSC will consider this request or not. Punjab chief secretary will be part of the meeting, after which the UPSC will select three candidates and send this panel to the state government to appoint one of them as the DGP. The cut-off date of October 4 was agreed upon as the vacancy was created on this date with the removal of then DGP Dinkar Gupta, after the Charanjit Singh Channi led dispensation took over. Sources claimed that now, the date of September 30 has been requested, after Sidhararth Chattopadhyaya was made the officiating DGP in a midnight decision. Chattopadhaya is scheduled to retire on March 31, and considering October 4 as the cut-off date takes him out of the regular DGP race, as he will be left with less than six month of service, one of the major guidelines for appointment to the post. A senior government admitted that the request for the revised cut-off date of September 30 was sent on Saturday.“Once the date was fixed, only then was the meeting called for December 21. The state has also admitted to considering October 4 as the cut-off date due to the vacancy arising on this date,” a senior UPSC functionary said. A senior state government official also confirmed that it was only after fixing October 4 as the cut-off date that the revised list of seven officers was sent to the UPSC. The seven officers on the list were 1987-batch Dinkar Gupta; BK Bhawra; Parbodh Kumar and Iqbal Preet Singh Sahota (1988-batch); Sanjeev Kalra and Parag Jain (1989-batch) and BK Uppal (1991-batch). In the initial panel, based on September 30 cut-off, names of Chattopadhyaya, Rohit Chaudhary (1988 batch) and MK Tiwari were also on the list. 
21-12-2021||Lucknow||Azadi Ka Amrit Mahotsav: Tech meets history as 500 drones take to sky||The ruins of the Residency came alive on Monday as some 500 whirring-drones mounted with powerful lights, hovered around during the country’s biggest drone light show, jointly organised by the ministry of culture and the department of tourism and culture, UP, as part of ‘Azadi Ka Amrit Mahotsav’ celebrations.The Lucknow Residency had been a silent witness to the First War of Independence.Chief minister Yogi Adityanath was the chief guest at the show based on the theme--freedom struggle, especially the revolt of 1857. Union minister of state for culture, Meenakshi Lekhi, was also present on the occasion.While addressing the gathering at the Residency, chief minister Yogi Adityanath, said, “UP was the main centre during the 1st War of Independence in 1857. We are fortunate ones to have assembled here to witness the celebrations of 75 years of independence but this independence was not achieved in a day. Chauri Chaura, Kakori Train Incident and many similar incidents eventually led to independence.”The CM hailed the selfless contributions of freedom fighters and said that they should be admired for what they did for the country.The CM while calling the present Covid-19 management system the most effective one, also compared it to the pandemic that broke out in the 19 Century.“A similar situation was also witnessed in the 19th Century in which many people died but the then government didn’t pay any heed. Our present Covid-19 management system is not only effective but is also being admired by the other countries. It’s our Prime Minister who made it all possible,” the CM said.He said that it’s the PM who made many impossible things, including the construction of Ram temple in Ayodhya, possible, and this is new India.Of the many formations which the drones performed, the one in which the drones formed the face of Indian soldier Mangal Pandey – the first to launch a protest against the British regime leading to the First War of Independence in 1857 – lit up the sky.The story of the first Indian freedom struggle from 1857 to 1947 was beautifully presented through the drones, to the accompaniment of music, laser lights and colourful drone acrobatics. The drones were being handled by a special team brought from Russia and a special team of drone engineers.Another attraction at the event was the mesmerising light and sound show where 3D lights were focused on the ruins, using it as a canvas.Not just nearby, people even from far off and also from neighbouring districts thronged in to be a part of a grand event to which entry was free.“It was certainly the most beautiful thing we witnessed. Thanks to the UP Government for making our day memorable,” said Izzat Hussain, a resident of Hussainabad, who visited Residency to be a part of the event.Sandeep Singh, who visited the Residency from Mahanagar along with his family, said, “I especially came to witness the event along with my children. It was such a treat watching this grand drone show followed by a mesmerising light and sound show, highlighting our history. It is tough to put it into words.”This was the largest drone show in the country. Earlier, in 2020, in Mumbai, 250 drones had performed in a show, and 100 drones had participated in a show held in Prayagraj, said officials with the tourism department.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/azadi-ka-amrit-mahotsav-tech-meets-history-as-500-drones-take-to-sky-over-residency-101640029108833.html
21-12-2021||Other||Fiction writer, art critic Madhur Kapila passes away||Chandigarh Madhur Kapila, a well-regarded fiction writer in Hindi, and an art critic, passed away on Sunday morning after a cardiac arrest. She was 79 and is survived by daughters Kriti and Shruti, and son Ashish. Born in Jalandhar, she was an early starter having penned a novel when she was just 12, based on the unhappy sights of Partition which she saw in her neighbourhood. She contributed regularly to Jalandhar newspapers and after her marriage to late journalist Ramesh Kapila, she made her home in Chandigarh, where she had been settled 1977. It was here that she blossomed as a music and art critic writer for leading Hindi newspapers. Music was her passion, having been initiated into listening to the best of Hindustani classical music, at the Harvallabh Sangeet Sammelan, as a child.Her short fiction in Hindi was regularly published in literary journals like ‘Naya Gyanudaya’, ‘Vartmaan Sahitya’, ‘Hatha Kram’ and Vaagarth to name a few.Her first novel Bhatke Rahi dealt with the identity of a woman in a post-Partition family (Prabhat Prakashan, 1964), and the last published novel “Samne ka Asmaan” portrays the lives of three individuals, bringing forth the untold stories of different social strata working in a theatre group in the city. It was published by Bharaiya Jnanpith in 2010. She has to her credit three collections of short stories, which were translated into several languages.She was a member of the Chandigarh Sangeet Natak Akademi for over three decades. In 2011, Kapila was presented with a Chandigarh Sahitya Akademi award for her outstanding contribution to literature.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/fiction-writer-art-critic-madhur-kapila-passes-away-101640028868724.html
21-12-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab govt overrules suspension of Patiala mayor||The state government has told the high court that the Patiala municipal corporation (MC) resolution on the suspension of mayor Sanjeev Sharma Bittu could not have been passed as it was “in contravention of and in excess of the powers” conferred by the Punjab Municipal Corporation Act, 1976.It was on November 25 when Bittu failed to prove majority in a high-voltage meeting held in the presence of former chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh and his bete noire cabinet minister Brahm Mohindra. Bittu faced a stiff rebellion from fellow councillors over his proximity to Capt Amarinder, who has floated a new party after parting ways with the Congress. Stating that the resolution has been suspended, the state government on Monday told the Punjab and Haryana high court that the Patiala MC House may further take up a supplementary agenda regarding the no-confidence motion, if again moved in writing by the councillors who made the requisition under Section 39 of the Act that deals with the mayor’s removal.Thereon, the HC disposed of the plea wherein Bittu had demanded that record pertaining to the House proceedings on November 25 be summoned and the MC’s communication to the government about resolution on his removal be quashed. The development has come as a setback to Punjab local government minister Brahm Mohindra, whose own department had to admit that Bittu was removed from the post in an “erroneous” manner. It has also given Captain Amarinder Singh a shot in the arm in his home constituency of Patiala Urban. Reacting to the development, Bittu said the government has finally admitted that an unfair process was followed in his removal. “The allegations levelled by me against my opponents also stand vindicated. I will take this matter to its logical conclusion,” he said.What had happenedDuring the floor test against Bittu, 62 persons were present. While 25 cast their vote expressing faith in him, 36 expressed lack of faith. The resolution was passed without the required two-thirds majority (under Section 39), and it was further recorded that during this period Bittu will be treated as “deemed suspended”. The government had sought the advocate general’s advice on the issue, who had stated that the MC “erred” in suspending the mayor as the agenda for his removal failed to meet the condition under Section 39 of the 1976 Act. The resolution cannot be said to have been passed under Section 61 (1) of the 1976 Act as there is specific provision for removal of the mayor under Section 39, it was stated.The government response stated that the mayor upon receiving requisition of the councillors seeking his removal tabled an agenda item for obtaining the vote of confidence. Subsequently, he put out a supplementary agenda on the no-confidence motion. The House considered the first agenda item and failed to prove majority. Thereafter, the House did not take up the supplementary agenda on the no-confidence motion, the response stated. Hence, the proposal sent to the government was in contravention of the 1976 Act.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-govt-overrules-suspension-of-patiala-mayor-101640028693544.html
21-12-2021||Chandigarh||SGPC chief says govt failure in sacrilege cases led to lynching at Golden Temple||Two days after a sacrilege bid at the Golden Temple in Amritsar, the Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (SGPC) on Monday convened an assembly of various Sikh organisations, in which the religious leaders strongly condemned such incidents and pledged to unite to fight the “anti-Panth forces”.SGPC president Harjinder Singh Dhami, who presided over the assembly, castigated the successive governments for failing to deliver justice in sacrilege cases in Punjab. Commenting on the lynching of the sacrilege accused, he said the punishment meted out to him by the Sikh Panth was due to their hurt religious sentiments and the government’s failure. “If the intentions of the government were clear, then the culprits could never commit such crimes,” he said, echoing the sentiments of those present at the assembly.The SGPC chief also questioned the government on the alleged sacrilege and lynching at Kapurthala. He alleged that the granthi and his family were being deliberately involved in the case, and warned the government against any “arbitrary” action.The assembly also passed a few resolutions, through which the community members were urged to recognise their duty of exposing all plots hatched by “anti-Sikh powers” and strengthen Panthic unity and harmony. Meanwhile, the Akal Takht jathedar was urged to issue guidelines to the Sangat in view of the sacrilege incidents.Jathedar responds to Singhvi’s tweetResponding to Congress Rajya Sabha MP Abhishek Singhvi’s Twitter post on the lynching of the sacrilege bid accused, Akal Takht acting jathedar Giani Harpreet Singh posted on Facebook: “When rule of law has failed to deliver justice to the Sikhs by punishing the culprits of sacrilege incidents, what else should be done by the heart-broken Sikhs?” In the tweet, Singhvi had said: “Sacrilege is horrendous but lynching in a civilised country is no less horrendous. I request the authorities to take strict action against all who took law into their own hand and make an example out of them.”In the reply shared on his FB page along with a screenshot of Singhvi’s tweet, the jathedar said: “The Congress MP is saying that strict action should be taken against those who killed the sacrilege culprit. However, we would like to tell that attacks were launched on Sikh maryada, Sikh religious places, Sikh history and Guru Granth Sahib after 1947 to instigate religious sentiments of Sikhs. However, instead of punishing the culprits, efforts were made to save the assailants and culprits under the state patronage, that has given mental pain to the Sikh community.”In a video released later, Giani Harpreet Singh said: “A meeting of Panj Singh Sahib (five Sikh clergymen) has been called at the Akal Takht on December 25 to discuss about the incidents. In the meeting, we will try to give a message to the community in consultation with the Sikh thinkers and intellectuals.”
21-12-2021||Chandigarh||Fatehgarh Sahib: Uphill task for AAP, SAD to breach Congress bastion||All three assembly segments in Fatehgarh Sahib district are represented by the Congress. Even as the AAP wave swept the constituency when Harinder Singh Khalsa registered a thumping win in the 2014 Lok Sabha elections, it later returned under the Congress influence with Khalsa leaving the AAP. Meanwhile, the SAD is in an experimental mode in an attempt to breach the Congress bastion in the upcoming Punjab polls, reports Navrajdeep Singh Fatehgarh Sahib: Nagra banks on his clean imageFatehgarh Sahib holds great historical and religious importance for Sikhs, but its politics hardly revolves around it. Though it has sent Sikh faces to the Vidhan Sabha for the past three terms, a Hindu leader — Harbans Lal — also represented this segment for three consecutive terms from 1992 to 2007.The two-time sitting MLA Kuljit Singh Nagra, who was also elevated as the state Congress working president, is banking upon his clean image and assertive style of working since his days in student politics. SAD last won an election here in 2007, but infighting between MLA Didar Singh Bhatti and senior leader Prem Singh Chandumajra dented the party prospects thereon. Jagdeep Singh Cheema is the party nominee this time. The AAP has several leaders, including Lakhvir Singh Rai, who contested the elections unsuccessfully in 2017, staking their claim to the party ticket. As for voters, better rail connectivity, repair of dilapidated roads and streets and the sewerage system upgrade are key issues.Bassi Pathana: No clear favourite in this segmentCarved out in 2012, the Bassi Pathana assembly segment has turned into an experimental field for political outfits. Voters have given a chance to both SAD (Justice Nirmal Singh, 2012) and Congress (Gurpreet Singh, 2017) from the segment, which is predominantly rural and is reserved for SC category.While MLA Gurpreet Singh has nurtured this assembly segment in the past five years, chief minister’s brother Dr Manohar Singh has also stepped into active politics after resigning from the post of senior medical officer and is vying the Congress ticket from here. As far as the SAD is concerned, it has again experimented by giving the seat to its coalition partner BSP, which has a negligible political base and could poll only 819 votes in 2017. Even the SAD ended on the third spot in the last election, as AAP’s Santokh Singh secured 37,132 votes. Santokh along with another AAP leader, Rashpinder Singh, are claiming the party ticket for the upcoming elections. The lack of employment opportunities sources and slow development are among the key local issues.Amloh: Cong stronghold for two decadesWith a mix of rural and urban vote bank, the Amloh assembly segment has become a Congress bastion, as the party has won four back-to-back elections since 2002. Randeep Singh, a four-time MLA who has won twice from here and was promoted to the rank of a cabinet minister, is likely to retain the party ticket.When it comes to the SAD, infighting has cost it the elections in the past. This time, the party has fielded youth leader Gurpreet Singh Raju Khanna, while his competitor Jagdeep Singh Cheema has been shifted to Fatehgarh Sahib.For the AAP, young leader Gurinder Singh Garry Biring is actively holding meetings and was recently announced the party in-charge in the segment.Poll sops involving industries usually set the mood of voters in this belt, as Punjab’s industrial hub Mandi Gobindgarh falls under Amloh. As for local issues, poor health facilities in Amloh town and pending construction of a railway overbridge in Mandi Gobindgarh are the key ones.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/fatehgarh-sahib-uphill-task-for-aap-sad-to-breach-congress-bastion-101640028691006.html
21-12-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab deputy CM writes to Shah, pushes for life term in sacrilege cases||Punjab deputy chief minister Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa on Monday wrote to Union home minister Amit Shah for pushing the state’s case for Presidential assent to two Bills that proposed life sentence for sacrilege of religious texts. Randhawa, who holds the home portfolio, said the existing provisions under Sections 295 and 295A of the Indian Penal Code (IPC), which provide for punishment of up to three years, are inadequate to deal with sacrilege cases. The Punjab assembly on March 21, 2016, passed the IPC (Punjab Amendment) Bill to insert Section 295A, which proposed life imprisonment for the sacrilege of Guru Granth Sahib, and amend Section 295 to enhance punishment from two years to 10 years for injuring or defiling a place of worship with intent to insult the religion of any class. The two bills got the governor’s assent on April 28, 2016, and were sent for the Presidential assent as they involved amendment to Central Acts. However, the Union home ministry sent back the Bills on March 16, 2017, saying that the exclusion of other religious texts would violate the principle of secularism and the sentence of life imprisonment was “excessive in law”. After the Congress took over the state’s reins from the Shiromani Akali Dal, the then advocate general, Atul Nanda, on May 12, 2017, advised that the Capt Amarinder Singh government may move a proposal for amendment of Section 295 with an increase in the term of imprisonment from two to 10 years, which had already been accepted by the Government of India. “The proposed Section 295AA may be dropped given that a sacred book such as the Guru Granth Sahib already stands covered under Section 295, or alternatively an amendment may be proposed for all/any religious books which would then be in consonance with the principles of secularism and would not be in violation with Article 14 of the Constitution of India,” he opined. In 2018, the Bills were passed in the Vidhan Sabha, with provision of punishment up to life imprisonment for causing injury, damage or sacrilege to Guru Granth Sahib, Bhagwat Gita , Quran and Bible with the intention to hurt religious feelings. These bills got the governor’s assent on October 12, 2018, but are pending for the President’s assent. “For Punjab being a border state, it is extremely necessary to maintain communal harmony here. For this, deterrent punishment is a must for those (who) disturb communal harmony by indulging in sacrilege. I request that the Presidential assent for the said Bills may kindly be obtained and conveyed to the state at the earliest possible,” Randhawa wrote to Shah on Monday. 
21-12-2021||Chandigarh||Covid:One patient succumbs, 27 new cases surface in Punjab||Punjab on Monday registered 27 fresh cases of Covid-19 and one death due to the virus in the past 24 hours. The state’s positivity rate for the day remained 0.15%, according to a medical bulletin. With fresh cases, Punjab’s total tally of positive cases has reached 6,03,986. The number of active cases is 298. Among the fresh cases, maximum 10 were detected in Jalandhar, followed by six in Pathankot. With 44 persons recovering from the infection, the number of those cured has reached 5,87,058, stated the bulletin. Till now, 16,630 people have succumbed to the virus in Punjab. Meanwhile, 17,744 people were tested for Covid-19, and as many as 55,531 doses of vaccine were administered on Monday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/covidone-patient-succumbs-27-new-cases-surface-in-punjab-101640028688407.html
21-12-2021||Lucknow||Mercury falling: 5.5 degrees Celsius in Lucknow, to get colder||The minimum temperature in the state capital dipped to the 5.5-degree Celsius mark, on Monday: the minimum this season, and which was three degrees below normal. The temperature reflected a drop of 5 degrees within one week.“Recent snowfall in the Himalayas and the cold Westerly winds moving from west to east are the primary reason for the marked drop in temperatures across UP. The minimum temperature is expected to drop further in the coming days by around two degrees,” said JP Gupta, director, Uttar Pradesh MeT Department.According to the forecast issued by the Indian Meteorological Department (IMD), the minimum temperature across UP is expected to drop by three degrees by this week. Lucknow, as per the forecast, will experience a minimum temperature of 6 degrees Celsius on Tuesday, accompanied by cold wind. The MeT department has also warned of the presence of heavy fog in the morning, across the state.Considering the forecast, the state MeT department has alerted district authorities about the adverse weather conditions suggesting that they make appropriate arrangements to fight the cold.The minimum temperature in other important cities of the state also plunged on Monday. While Meerut recorded a minimum temperature of 3.3 degrees Celsius, mercury dropped to 5.2 degrees Celsius in Varanasi and Prayagraj. Agra recorded a minimum temperature of 5.1 degrees Celsius.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/mercury-falling-5-5-degrees-celsius-in-lucknow-to-get-colder-101640028628548.html
21-12-2021||Chandigarh||Adjournment motion on recruitment scam: Congress seeks dismissal of HPSC chairman||The Opposition MLAs in Haryana assembly on Monday sought dismissal of the Haryana Public Service Commission (HPSC) chairman for his “inability to check grave irregularities and corrupt practices” in recruitment process of dental surgeons and Haryana Civil Services (HCS) officers.The Opposition also demanded that the investigation in the HPSC recruitment scam should be handed over to the CBI and a high court judge should monitor the probe.Speaking during an adjournment motion on corruption in the HPSC and the Haryana Staff Selection Commission (HSSC), leader of the Opposition Bhupinder Singh Hooda said former HPSC secretary Anil Nagar, who was allegedly caught red-handed by the vigilance bureau for taking bribe and later dismissed from service, was a small fry in the entire episode.“It’s not a one-man job. It is a deep-rooted conspiracy and the truth can emerge only if the case is handed over to the CBI,” Hooda said.Discussion on the motion went on for three hours on Monday. The former chief minister said the HPSC chairman cannot be absolved of his responsibilities and is equally responsible for the mess in the Commission. “The clean chit given to the HPSC chairman by the chief minister will not help. It was the chairman’s responsibility (to ensure corruption-free selection process) and he should own up to the lapses,” Hooda said.Citing an unverified transcript of a conversation between two persons doing rounds on social media platforms, the leader of Opposition said it needs to be investigated as there are indications of exchange of money and manipulation in recruitments.Rohtak MLA BB Batra said HPSC chairman was found wanting in fulfilling his duties and should be removed. “Corruption was happening right under his nose. What was he doing all this while? He is equally responsible for the situation. In fact, he should tender his papers on moral grounds,” said Batra, a former HPSC chairman himself.Tosham MLA Kiran Choudhry said while this issue is of great public importance as corruption and manipulations in recruitments were detected by the vigilance bureau, the response of the state government so far has been too little, too late. “It seems the effort is to net the small fish and save big crocodiles,” she said.INLD’s lone MLA Abhay Singh Chautala said the person appointed as HPSC chairman was an aide de camp (ADC) to the chief minister before his appointment and comes from Madhya Pradesh. “Why could you not find a suitable person from Haryana for appointment as the HPSC chairman?” Abhay asked the chief minister.No one will be spared, let VB complete probe: KhattarChief minister Manohar Lal Khattar, in his response, told the House that since he has complete trust in the state investigation agencies probing the corrupt practices in the HPSC recruitments, they should be allowed to conduct the investigation.“I can assure the House that those who indulged in corruption in recruitments will not be spared. An independent and impartial investigation is underway. If the Opposition has any information related to discrepancies in the competitive examinations, they should communicate it to the vigilance bureau or the court,” Khattar said.The CM said investigations have so far not revealed whether the accused in the HPSC recruitment scam have been able to manipulate the HCS preliminary examination conducted and any other examination other than the dental surgeon examination.The CM said the secret work of various recruitments has been assigned from time to time to the previously posted deputy secretaries.The confidential work related to the recruitment of HCS and other allied services 2021 and dental surgeon 2021 was entrusted to the then deputy secretary as the secretary had recused because his family members were appearing for HCS exams.Khattar said, “M/s Safedot E-Solutions Pvt Ltd was not enlisted for inviting applications for HCS preliminary examination and dental surgeon examination. Earlier, the commission had allotted work related to inviting online application form to Safedot E-Solution Pvt Ltd on April 25, 2013.”“Thereafter, vide a letter dated September 3, 2019, the services of the said company were terminated on the ground that its work is not satisfactory and it causes delay in urgent works. The confidential work of the 10 posts whose candidates were called for document verification from December 21, 2021 to December 27, 2021 was not handed over to the then deputy secretary. The record of these 10 posts was also not with the deputy secretary,” he told the House.The decision regarding blacklisting the scanning agency and the two written examinations will be taken by the Commission after receiving the report from the vigilance bureau.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/adjournment-motion-on-recruitment-scam-congress-seeks-dismissal-of-hpsc-chairman-101640028569194.html
21-12-2021||Lucknow||Preparing for 3rd wave: Mohalla Nigrani Samitis revived in Lucknow||The Lucknow Municipal Corporation (LMC) has decided to revive Mohalla Nigrani Samitis in Lucknow to stop the spread of Covid cases, especially Omicron. These samitis will keep tabs on Covid-19 cases in localities and maintain records of people coming from other cities, states and countries, along with patients in home quarantine.Ajay Dwivedi, municipal commissioner, said, “The area corporator leads the Samitis which have around 10 members who are prominent citizens of the area, sanitation workers and Asha workers, having influence over the common man. However, corporators play a major role in identifying areas where special attention like disinfection with sodium hypochlorite or special sanitation drive is required.”This time, the Mohalla Nigrani Samitis will also be supposed to motivate people to get vaccinated. They will also prepare a list of residents who are yet to get the first dose of the vaccine.During the second Covid wave, the 110 wards of LMC constituted about 140 Mohalla Nigrani Samitis for better surveillance of patients. These samitis acted as a bridge between the LMC, district administration, health department and locals. In the shadow of Omicron, these samitis will have a crucial role to play, feel LMC officials.During the second wave, Mohala Nigrani Samitis played an important role in motivating patients to get admitted to hospitals, or getting them medicines, food at their doorstep, said Shravan Nayak, corporator of Shri Guru Govind Singh and Sardar Patel Ward.“Our Nigrani Samitis perfectly coordinated with surveillance teams and helped them contact tracing, mapping areas, marking houses, coordinating with sanitisation staff to sanitise patients’ houses along with barricading houses where patients were found. Not only that, we used to create awareness about the importance of barricading wherever the residents opposed barricading of houses. This time too Omicron is a super spreader; it multiplies several times faster than the delta variant so barricading will be required despite opposition,” said Shravan Nayak.He added, “This time too, we are ready to work along with authorities to save people from Coronavirus.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/preparing-for-3rd-wave-mohalla-nigrani-samitis-revived-in-lucknow-101640028209738.html
21-12-2021||Chandigarh||KU to conduct research to make paddy waste useful for industries||The department of biotechnology of the Kurukshetra University is set to conduct research to make paddy straw useful for industries and generate additional income for farmers.The department has received a grant of ₹14 lakh from the Haryana State Council of Science and Technology for the research and development project on production of microbial silicase for resolution of silica in rice straw for value addition for a period of three years.The move, if successful, will prove a big breakthrough and will help to get rid of the problem of stubble burning by finding out a cost-effective and environment-friendly approach to tackle the issue.Project in-charge Dr Sunita Dalal said high silica content is the biggest problem in the paddy waste and the prime objective of this research is to find out a formulation to dissolve silica in an environment-friendly way so that it could be used as potential material for industries.She said crop residue burning generates pollutants affecting human health by polluting the air and environment. Since the farmers do not find paddy straw as nutritious animal fodder due to its high silica content, it caused the indigestibility of livestock.The protecting effect of silica layer inhibits the commercial application as well that stakes it as a potential feedstock for different industries such as paper, fibre board, bio-fuels, bio-ethanol, dietary fibre and bio-char.“Under stressful conditions, some bacteria tend to release silicase enzymes, which will be isolated and standardised to be potentially pre-treatment protocols on rice straw. This will increase accessibility of hydrolytic enzymes towards value-added products as well,” she said, adding that the project is likely to have wide-reaching positive effects on the environment, energy, and agricultural sectors along with economic symbiotic partnership among farmers and industries.She said an appropriate pre-treatment technique for silica reduction is to find its suitability as a feedstock is need of the hour as harsh and expensive physical and chemical methods of dissolving silica from rice straw are available, but they prove to be a burden on the environment.Stubble burning is a major issue in the paddy-growing belts of Haryana. Even the state government has provided subsidies up to 80% on the purchase of machines for the management of crop waste but achieving zero stubble burning still remains a challenge as the state has reported 6,987 incidents of farm fires during the kharif harvesting season ending on November 30, against 9,898 reported last kharif harvesting season from September 15 to November 30.Farmers allege that due to restrictions on early transplantation of paddy, they do not get enough time for management of crop waste after paddy harvesting as they have to prepare fields for the next crop.“If the paddy waste becomes useful for the industries, it will not only help farmers get rid of the crop waste but they will get additional income by selling it to the industries,” said Karam Chand, deputy director agriculture of Kaithal district.
21-12-2021||Chandigarh||Four held for running racket to help aspirants of govt recruitment exams||The crime investigation team of the Kaithal police have busted a gang allegedly involved in helping the aspirants of recruitment exams for government appointments with the arrest of four people.Police said he used to run a racket to help the aspirants of recruitment exams by replacing the genuine candidates with their own candidates in the written exams.According to police, the arrested accused have been identified as Sanjay Singh, of Chattar village who was posted as head clerk in Burail jail (Chandigarh) and he was staying in Bhaini Majra of Kaithal, Sandeep, of Chattar village in Jind, Rahul, of Ballabgarh, and Ashwani, of Sarai Paryag in Uttar Pradesh.The investigators said in the recent exam for recruitment of male constables in the Haryana Police, aspirant Sandeep, of Jind, had contacted Sanjay who replaced him with Rahul in the written exam held on October 31 by preparing fake admit cards.Police said he had helped another candidate Gopal Singh, of Narwana in Jind, by replacing him with Ashwani Pratap in the written exam. Sandeep cleared the exam and on Monday, he had come to give money to Sanjay and they were arrested by the police.The SP said police have recovered ₹7 lakh cash, 11 admit cards and five mobile phones from his possession. During the interrogation, they told the police that Sanjay, Rahul and Ashwani have so far helped 17 candidates in many recruitment exams conducted by the central and state governments.The SP said the accused have been booked under Sections 419, 420, 467, 468, 471 and 120B of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and under the Haryana Public Examination (Prevention of Unfair Means) Act, 2021.They will be produced in court and police will seek their remand for further interrogation, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/four-held-for-running-racket-to-help-aspirants-of-govt-recruitment-exams-101640027968368.html
21-12-2021||Chandigarh||Man kills wife, three kids before ending life in Hisar||A 38-year-old man allegedly killed his wife and three teenage children with a sharp-edged weapon before committing suicide by jumping in front of a speeding vehicle on the outskirts of Hisar’s Nangthala village in the wee hours of Monday.Police said villagers found the body of Ramesh Kumar on Barwala road on Nangthala’s outskirts. Police recovered a suicide note from the accused’s pocket in which he confessed to killing his wife Savita, 38, and children Anushka, 14, Deepika, 12, and Keshav, 11.In his complaint, Ramesh’s younger brother Sunil said his brother was a painter, besides running a shop of printing wedding cards in Agroha town of Hisar.“Some locals informed me in the morning that Ramesh was hit by an unknown vehicle and rushed to a medical college in Agroha. When I went there, the doctors told me that he succumbed. I found a suicide note from his pocket in which he mentioned that he was fed up with his life and had killed his family,” he said.“On going to Ramesh’s house, we found my sister-in-law and their children dead. There were injury marks on their heads and other parts of the bodies,” the complainant added.Hisar DIG Balwan Singh Rana said they have handed over the bodies of Ramesh, his wife and children to his family after conducting postmortem.“Prima facie it seems that Ramesh had mixed some intoxicants in the food and served the same to the family. Later, he killed his family before ending his life. We have assessed the suicide note and registered a case of murder against Ramesh,” the DIG added.“In the suicide note he said he was trying to end his family for the last three days and had no regrets about killing his wife and children,” the cop added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/man-kills-wife-three-kids-before-ending-life-in-hisar-101640027788559.html
21-12-2021||Chandigarh||No permanent teacher in model schools of Mewat||Haryana education minister Kanwar Pal on Monday admitted in the Vidhan Sabha that there are no permanent teachers working at the five Aarohi Model Schools and five Kasturba Gandhi Schools of Mewat district.According to a written reply the education minister submitted during the second sitting of the winter session in response to a question of Congress MLA Aftab Ahmed, there are 22 temporary teachers posted in Aarohi Model Schools while the number of students in the schools is 863. And four schools do not have a principal.Similarly, four Kasturba Gandhi schools are without a principal and there are 21 temporary teachers for 1,061 students.On the opening day of the winter session, the minister had informed the Vidhan Sabha that at least 49% posts of regular teachers, including 64% of trained graduate teachers (TGTs), are lying vacant in the Muslim-dominated Mewat region of Haryana.Two written tests cancelledMeanwhile, the Haryana government on Monday informed the Vidhan Sabha that the Haryana Staff Selection Commission (HSSC) had advertised 9,954 posts between November 2019 and December 2021 and written examinations for the post of gram sachiv and male constables were cancelled.In a written reply to a question of Congress MLA Bharat Bhushan Batra, who had sought details of cancelled competitive exams after paper leaks, the state government submitted that the written examination for the post of gram sachiv and male constables were cancelled on January 16 and August 7, respectively.The state government stated that the HSSC conducted written examinations for 21,802 posts between November 2019 and December 2021.“Investigations regarding candidates leaving OMR sheets blank and paper leaks of male constable are underway,” the government said.The state government further said in the Haryana Public Service Commission (HPSC) no case of paper leak or leaving the OMR sheet blank was noticed from November 2019 to December 2021. However, at the Vigilance Bureau (VB) police station in Panchkula, a case under the prevention of unfair means was registered.The state government also informed the House that the VB has sought information from the HPSC regarding written test of dental surgeons held on September 26 and the HCS and other allied services preliminary examinations held on September 12.Jobs to kin of freedom fightersSince 2014, the Haryana government has given Class-B-C-D jobs to at least 175 successors of freedom fighters. In a written reply to a question of Varun Chaudhary, the state government said the HPSC has appointed one person in group-B, while the HSSC has appointed 17 people in Group-B, 139 in Group-C, and 18 in Group-D posts.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/no-permanent-teacher-in-model-schools-of-mewat-101640027668444.html
21-12-2021||Chandigarh||Rail track building: Panel to probe if houses were demolished in Rohtak||Haryana urban local bodies minister Anil Vij on Monday announced to set up a three-member panel to ascertain if houses were demolished in Rohtak while constructing an elevated railway track after Haryana Congress MLA Bharat Bhushan Batra accused the state government of giving a misleading reply in the assembly.Batra had sought details of persons whose houses were demolished by the government while constructing Rohtak-Gohana-Panipat elevated railway track and whether the government has formulated a scheme to rehabilitate those whose shops and houses were demolished.However, in a written reply, Vij answered three questions of Batra in negative. “No houses/shops have been demolished while constructing the Rohtak-Gohana-Panipat elevated railway track,” Vij said, prompting Batra to launch the offense.“People have been displaced, houses and shops have been demolished and the government is giving a misleading reply,” Batra said, urging speaker Gian Chand Gupta that a committee should be set up to look into the issue even as Vij stuck to his stand.Vij repeatedly said that his reply is based on information received from the railways. Finally, Vij announced that a team consisting of director urban local bodies, deputy commissioner (Rohtak) and one officer of engineering wing ( PWD) will be constituted to look into the issue.Haryana Private Universities (Amendment) Bill passedMeanwhile, the Haryana Vidhan Sabha passed the Haryana Private Universities (Amendment) Bill, 2021 on Monday.Three other bills were also tabled in the House on Monday including the Haryana Pond and Waste Water Management Authority (Amendment) Bill, 2021, the Haryana Scheduled Roads and Controlled Areas Restriction of Unregulated Development (Amendment and Validation) Bill, 2021, and the Panchkula Metropolitan Development Authority (Amendment) Bill, 2021. These bills will be taken up for discussion later.An official spokesperson said the Haryana Private Universities Act, 2006 has been brought essentially to rope in private sector to supplement the initiative of government in expanding the capacity in higher education and up scaling its standards.Besides this, to achieve the objectives enshrined in the Act, a proposal has been made to setup a Geeta University in Panipat.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/rail-track-building-panel-to-probe-if-houses-were-demolished-in-rohtak-101640027488493.html
21-12-2021||Other||Punjab goes slow on law amendment, ₹1,090 cr RDF stuck with Centre||Chandigarh The Punjab government is sitting on the file related to amendments in the rural development act, due to which release of ₹1,091 crore from the Centre over rural development fund (RDF) accruals has been held up. The state charges 3% RDF on the minimum support price (MSP) paid to the farmers on procurement of foodgrain; paddy in kharif and wheat in rabi seasons. The rural development act, which provides for the charge of RDF was framed by the state assembly, and amendments to it had to be done during the Vidhan Sabha. With state polls round the corner, the government may have to bring an ordinance, however, there is no such proposal mooted by the government, so far. The next cabinet meeting is scheduled on December 23 (Thursday). The state government has formed a sub-committee of cabinet ministers from finance, food and civil supplies, agriculture, and rural development and panchayats. “The matter was raised in the last meeting of the council of ministers. Let us see how soon the amendments are done,” said a cabinet minister on the request of anonymity. As per the provisional cost-sheet for the paddy procurement than ended in November, the RDF could be recovered from the Centre before December 31, otherwise the Centre might reject the release. Sources added that the present dispensation in the state is not keen to close the matter and wants to take beyond the upcoming polls. In February, the Centre’s food and public distribution system ministry had asked the state to amend the act and make it specific to the usage other than populist schemes such as debt waiver and releasing funds for sangat darshan programmes run by the former CM Parkash Singh Badal. An amount of ₹4,610 crore was given in debt waiver to the farmers, as a pre-poll promise that former Capt Amarinder Singh had promised, ahead of 2017 elections in Punjab. “Instead, the RDF could be used to check distress sale among farmers and upgrade of the procurement system,” February’s communication from the Centre had suggested to Punjab. The Centre wants that as the RDF comes from its consolidated fund, it should go into the consolidated fund of the state government and be made part of the budget. To the contrary, the fund is kept-off budget. The department has also sought its audit. 
21-12-2021||Chandigarh||Ranjit Singh murder case: HC admits Ram Rahim’s appeal||The Punjab and Haryana high court on Monday admitted the appeal of Sirsa-based Dera Sacha Sauda head Gurmeet Rahim Singh, awarded life sentence in the murder case of one Ranjit Singh in 2002.The high court bench of justice AG Masih and justice Sandeep Moudgil, while admitting the appeal, ordered that recovery of 50% of the fine will remain suspended during the pendency of appeal as the remaining 50% is to be paid as compensation to the legal heirs of Ranjit Singh.On October 18, a special CBI court in Panchkula had awarded life sentence to Ram Rahim and four others. The four others convicted in the case are Jasbir Singh, a follower; Krishan Lal, a dera manager; Sabdil, gunman of the dera head; and Avtar Singh, a dera functionary.Besides life term, Ram Rahim was fined with ₹31 lakh. Ram Rahim is lodged in Sunaria jail of Rohtak since August 2017 after his conviction in two rape cases of female disciples in 2002.He has also been awarded life sentence in another murder of 2002, of journalist Ram Chander Chhatrapati.Ranjit Singh, a former follower of Ram Rahim, was shot dead by four assailants on July 10, 2002 at his native Khanpur Kolian village in Kurukshetra. According to CBI, Ranjit Singh was murdered as Ram Rahim suspected that he was behind the circulation of an anonymous letter that revealed the sexual exploitation of woman followers at the dera.In the appeal filed, Ram Rahim said the trial court erred in not considering the inherent inconsistencies and glaring contradiction in the story of the prosecution for which the benefit of doubt ought to have been extended.“The testimonies of prosecution witnesses have significant contradictions with each other,” it claims, adding that the prosecution has failed to establish facts beyond reasonable doubts by which motive was sought to be attributed upon Ram Rahim.“Conspiracy can be proved by direct or circumstantial evidence. The prosecution in the present case has sought to prove the alleged conspiracy by leading direct evidence by way of testimony of one, Khatta Singh and by way of circumstantial evidence. There is no cogent evidence,” the plea argues.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ranjit-singh-murder-case-hc-admits-ram-rahim-s-appeal-101640027248793.html
