22-12-2021||Ranchi||Six-fold rise in registered unemployed people in J'khand in last 2 years: Govt||The number of registered unemployed people in Jharkhand has increased by almost six times in the last two years during the COVID-19 pandemic, the state government informed the assembly on Wednesday.Neither have the 6,45,844 jobless people registered with 43 employment offices in the 24 districts got jobs nor are they receiving any unemployment allowance as of now, labour and employment minister Satyanand Bhokta said in response to a query by Bokaro's BJP MLA Biranchi Narayan.The minister said that Jharkhand also has the highest joblessness among the five neighbouring states, and stands fourth in the country in unemployment rate."In the last 23 months, there has been a spike of 638 per cent in applications by jobless youths in employment exchanges as compared to 2019."In 2019, there were 85,122 registered unemployed people in the state, to which 5,60,722 were added between January 2020 and June 2021," the minister said.The administration is taking steps to fill up the 3,29,860 vacant positions in state government jobs, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ranchi-news/sixfold-rise-in-registered-unemployed-people-in-j-khand-in-last-2-years-govt-101640196102416.html
22-12-2021||Mumbai||Covid: At 1,201, Maharashtra sees highest fresh daily tally since November 17||Maharashtra on Wednesday registered a sharp rise in Covid-19 cases with 1,201 new infections being recorded in the last 24 hours.With this, the state’s tally crossed the 1,000-mark for the first time since November 17. The government’s updated health bulletin said the test positivity rate is at 0.98 per cent with 1,23,261 samples tested during the period. The last time Maharashtra touched 1 per cent positivity rate was on November 9.Its capital Mumbai also reported 490 new coronavirus positive cases, a jump of more than 160 from the previous day, but did not record any fatality from the infection.Also read | After Omicron's arrival, Delhi reports biggest daily rise in infections in 6 monthsThe state is also one of the top contributors in the country’s tally of Omicron cases, the highly transmissible variant of the Covid-19. According to last available figures, Maharashtra has detected at least 65 cases of the B.1.1.529 variant, 11 of which were confirmed on Tuesday.Meanwhile, the state registered eight more deaths taking the fatality tally to 1,41,375. As many as 953 people recovered from the disease pushing the tally to 64,99,760.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/covid-at-1-201-maharashtra-sees-highest-fresh-daily-tally-since-november-17-101640186819690.html
22-12-2021||Lucknow||With 49 offers above ₹1 cr, IIT-Kanpur ends phase I of placement season on a high||IIT Kanpur ended its phase I of placement season 2021-22 on December 15 on a high with the institute receiving a total of 1300 offers of which 1100 were accepted. This includes the 156 pre-placement offers (PPOs) out of 207 that were already accepted.The phase 1 of the placement started virtually on December 1.The institute received an impressive 47 international offers that was a jump of 150% from last year’s 19 international offers. The highest annual packages so far are USD 287,550 for international and ₹1.2 crore for domestic. In total, 49 offers above Rs. 1 crore have been received, making it the highest the institute has received so far.IIT Kanpur has pulled in top recruiters like Axtria, EXL, Graviton, Goldman Sachs, ICICI Bank, Intel, Microsoft, OLA, Rubrik, Samsung, Quadeye, Uber, Tiger Analytics among others this season.IIT Kanpur director Prof Abhay Karandikar said, “IIT Kanpur has been consistently and rigorously contributing to the holistic research and innovation sector of the nation. The resourcefulness and expertise IIT Kanpur possess is reflected in the trust the recruiters are bestowing upon us with such high number of offers across all sectors.”“This is also a positive indication of the steady revival of the economy and the increase in core sector jobs. I congratulate the students who are placed in the phase I and am quite hopeful that we’d continue the run in the same spirit in the second phase as well,” he said.At the end of Phase I, more than 80% students have been placed, out of which, about 69% are undergraduates and about 31% are postgraduates. The institute will kick start the second phase of the placement season in January.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/with-49-offers-above-rs-1-cr-iit-kanpur-ends-phase-i-of-placement-season-on-a-high-101640182742872.html
22-12-2021||Lucknow||Yogi launches projects worth over ₹500 cr, lays foundation of medical college in Sonbhadra||VARANASI Chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Wednesday launched 79 development projects worth over ₹500 crore in Sonbhadra district (foundation laying and inauguration) and laid the foundation stone of a 500-bed medical college, which would be built at a cost of ₹300 crore. Accusing the non-BJP governments of depriving Sonbhdra of basic facilities, Adityanath said the BJP government was ensuring development and equipping the district with facilities for locals. “Sonbhadra district is full of natural resources, but the previous government kept locals deprived of basic facilities. Before 2017, the district, which supplies electricity to the entire state, used to remain in darkness itself,” said the chief minister, welcoming the Jan Vishwas Yatra in Sonbhadra. The Jan Vishwas Yatra is being taken out in UP, covering all assembly constituencies, to apprise people of various schemes started by the BJP government at the centre and in the state. While addressing a public meeting, Adityanath said, “This yatra has brought the gift of a medical college to Sonbhadra so that locals get quality treatment here. Foundation for a medical college has been laid and now poor people of the district will not have to go elsewhere to avail medical treatment.”“‘The Har Ghar Nal Yojana’ has already been launched to make drinking water available in every village. By 2022, potable water supply to every house in each village of Sonbhadra and surrounding districts will be ensured under this scheme,” he added. The previous government used to ban Kanwar Yatra, but Modiji gave the gift of Vishwanath Dham, said Adityanath, adding that his government ensured action against mafias (mining and land mafias) and sent them to jail.The CM said his government also took a number of steps for the welfare of the poor.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/yogi-launches-projects-worth-over-rs-500-cr-lays-foundation-of-medical-college-in-sonbhadra-101640182383156.html
22-12-2021||Lucknow||Chhattisgarh model, not the Gujarat one, will suit people of Uttar Pradesh: Bhupesh Baghel||Chhattisgarh chief minister Bhupesh Baghel on Wednesday said the Chhattisgarh model of governance, not the Gujarat one, would suit the interests of Uttar Pradesh. Baghel said people now knew the reality of the Gujarat model.Baghel, who is a senior observer of the Congress for the Uttar Pradesh polls, was speaking at the party’s Pratigya rally at Kevalpurwa village in Nakha block, about 14 km from the Lakhimpur Kheri district headquarters.He accused the BJP governments at the Centre and in Uttar Pradesh of shielding Union minister of state for home Ajay Kumar Mishra Teni in the Lakhimpur Kheri violence case, in which eight people, including four farmers and a journalist, were killed on October 3.The minister’s son Ashish Mishra, the main accused in the case, was arrested on October 9 and has been in jail since then.Baghel alleged that the party rally in Nakha was allowed on the condition that silence would be observed on the case.However, he added that he called on the kin of the victims of violence and raised the issue. He asked officials to discharge their duties as per the constitution.Elaborating on the Chhattisgarh model while attacking the Yogi government, Bhupesh Baghel said after coming to power in Chhattisgarh in 2018, he waived farmers’ loans worth ₹18000 crore.“In UP, farmers were demanding minimum support price while in Chhattisgarh, farmers were given ₹2500 per quintal for their paddy and wheat crops,” he added.He said UP farmers faced stray cattle menace while in Chhattisgarh, his government had built 8000 “gau-sadans” ( cow shelters) and purchased cow dung at ₹2 per kg.Urging the people to be cautious during the upcoming Uttar Pradesh assembly polls, Bhupesh Baghel said, “In UP, one party has resorted to the politics of religion while others of caste.”“It is the Congress which was doing politics for development, employment to youths, empowerment of women and uplift of farmers,” Bhupesh Baghel said. Uttar Pradesh Congress president Ajay Kumar Lallu was with Baghel at the rally. He sharply attacked the BJP governments for the “plight of UP farmers”.The state Congress chief said farmers relied upon their crop income for their livelihood, education and marriage of their children, but the BJP government, which had claimed it would double farmers income by 2022, had failed to pay them even the cost incurred on the crops. Lallu said farmers had the power to change the scenario.In Lakhimpur, cane farmers had agitated over their dues which forced the government and mill owners to come to an agreement, he said.Once in power in UP, the Congress would ensure permanent jobs to youths in place of contract services, scholarships and scooties to girl students, besides promoting indigenous cottage industries like brass, carpet and Lucknow’s chikankari, Ajay Kumar Lallu said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/chhattisgarh-model-not-the-gujarat-one-will-suit-people-of-uttar-pradesh-bhupesh-baghel-101640181767594.html
22-12-2021||Lucknow||PM invites suggestions for his speech at IIT-K convocation ceremony on Dec 28||LUCKNOW Prime Minister Narendra Modi will be addressing the convocation ceremony of IIT-Kanpur on December 28. He called upon students of this institution, other IITs and the vast IIT alumni network spread globally to share ideas for his speech.“I look forward to being at IIT-Kanpur on the 28th of this month to address the convocation ceremony. This is a vibrant institution, which has made pioneering contributions towards science and innovation. I invite everyone to share suggestions,” the PM tweeted on Wednesday.According to NaMo app, PM Modi may incorporate some of the suggestions in his address. “One may recall that PM Modi has addressed convocation ceremonies of various IITs in the past as well. You can share your ideas in the comments section below. The forum will be active till December 27,” it reads.Earlier in the day, IIT-Kanpur director Prof Abhay Karandikar posted on social media, “I am delighted to share that Hon’ble Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi Ji has kindly accepted to be the chief guest for the 54th convocation of @IITKanpur. The convocation will be held on Tuesday, Dec 28, 2021. Join us to be part of this momentous day. Stay tuned for more details.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/pm-invites-suggestions-for-his-speech-at-iit-k-convocation-ceremony-on-dec-28-101640181707507.html
22-12-2021||Chandigarh||A visit that opened our eyes, moved us, left us speechless||Mid-career conferences are normally mundane affairs, but certain meets leave long-lasting impressions. In May 2001, a regional conference to update certain aspects of disability evaluation and newer standard operating guidelines to take care of persons who were challenged physically, visually, mentally or hearing impaired was organised by the Rehabilitation Council of India at the Government Medical College and Hospital, Chandigarh. The conference was attended by 100-odd participants, comprising doctors and administrators of the region. The first two days were reserved for lectures on the theme of the conference, while the third and final day was reserved for a field visit. On the final day, our first stop was at the institute of the visually challenged, where we were received and ushered in by the principal. The students were being imparted vocational training so as to learn requisite skills to become self-sufficient. Their skilful mastery over Braille impressed one and all. The visit ended with a musical rendition by the students. As we were walking out, I was overwhelmed by the grit of the ‘enlightened’ minds. For them, life was all black but it was not dark as they had ‘illuminated’ it by cultivating ‘extra’ sensory perceptions and skills to pave the way for their day to day living. Instead of getting discouraged by their difficulties, they had triumphed over it with hope and determination. After that we were taken to the Nevedac Prosthetic Centre, where the physically challenged, amputees or post poliotic patients were being rehabilitated. There were two youngsters who had recently lost their limbs in accidents and were being tested with prosthetic fits. Their world had come crashing down on their ‘feet’ literally. They were to gather all their determination to overcome the loss and be up and about. The centre had employees who were physically challenged and they were contributing in their own limited way and getting remuneration in return, to have some financial independence. The next stop was at the institute of the hearing impaired. The conversation there was with sign language and that singular acquisition was now giving direction to the lives of the inmates there. Finally, at the valedictory function in the evening, representatives of sub groups were to speak and they went on to cite the content of the lectures to arrangements to logistics etc. Our sub group representative’s turn came last and his brief remarks were, “Today’s visit to various centres opened our eyes, moved us and left us speechless.” This was received with pin drop silence for a minute after he had finished as everyone felt thankful to the Almighty. The single-day experience of myriad emotions taught us to be kind, empathetic and to have an attitude of gratitude. We hardly count our blessings and constantly complain about what we don’t possess. US radio host Woodrow M Kroll rightly said: “Concentrate on counting your blessings and you’ll have little time to count anything else.” The Covid-19 pandemic has literally brought us to our knees and has re-emphasised that every breath is a blessing and we need to stay optimistic. We can complain because rose bushes have thorns, or rejoice because thorns have roses. The choice is ours. narin58@gmail.com The writer is a Panchkula-based freelance contributor||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/a-visit-that-opened-our-eyes-moved-us-left-us-speechless-101640180927571.html
22-12-2021||Lucknow||Prayagraj police ‘Pahal’ bears fruit, large number of CCTVs installed in rural areas||Prayagraj police’s initiative ‘Pahal’ has started bearing results with several traders and individuals in rural areas showing keen interest in installing CCTV cameras at their establishments to keep a tab on crime incidents.To note that besides installation of CCTV cameras under Smart City project, majority of traders and a large number of individuals have already installed CCTV cameras at their showrooms, shops and homes across the city areas.The focus is laid on installation of CCTV cameras at customer service centres of different banks which operate at village bazars and town areas that are often targeted by miscreants and many incidents of loots with bank franchise managers have been frequently reported, said SSP Sarvshrestha Tripathi, the architect of the drive. Tripathi said police have received massive help in identifying culprits and miscreants and cracking even blind cases due to available footages. “However, markets and shops in rural areas still lack adequate numbers of CCTV cameras due to which police often remains clueless about cracking cases,” he said. To solve this issue, the initiative ‘pahal’ was launched a few months back and after extensive campaigning over 150 traders in rural areas of trans-Yamuna and trans-Ganga have installed CCTV cameras with help of local cops.On Wednesday, Industrial Area police helped installation of CCTV cameras at customer service centre at Rampur while on Tuesday such gadgets were installed at two bank franchise in Manda area. Moreover, during the last few days many CCTV cameras were installed at hospitals, garment showrooms and even small business establishments in Koraon, Khiri, Tharwai and other areas of the district. Tripathi said with people showing interest in installation of CCTV cameras in rural areas, police is receiving immense help in identifying suspects and miscreants who create trouble. “Installation of CCTVs in rural areas will help in maintaining law and order and identification of trouble makers during upcoming assembly polls. The target of the drive is installation of maximum number of CCTV cameras in the district. The CCTV installation will help in evidence based policing and prosecution of culprits,” the SSP added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/prayagraj-police-pahal-bears-fruit-large-number-of-cctvs-installed-in-rural-areas-101640180807826.html
22-12-2021||Pune||Events in Pune buzzing again... with Covid norms the casualty||PUNE From past one week several exhibitions and year-end public gatherings have been organised in Pune. On Wednesday, the folk and tribal art and food festival-cum-fair Bhimthadi Jatra was held with over 200 exhibitors. Similarly in various areas, local corporators have organised huge exhibitions. However, residents sounded the alarm, cautioning about a possible surge in Covid cases on the backdrop of the new Omicron variant, due to large crowds gathering. People do not wear masks, no social distancing and organisers do not seem to be taking all the safety precautions, allege the citizens’ association.Atul Namekar, secretary of Sinhgad road-Warje residents’ association said, “We are already under the fear of new Covid-19 Omicron variant and daily cases of this variant are coming up in Pune. With the municipal elections nearing, several corporators and other party aspirants are organising fun fairs and exhibitions.With large crowds gathering at these events, Covid cases will certainly rise. The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) should take strict action against the organisers of these events for the safety of people and to stop the spread of virus.”As per the state Covid guidelines, currently to organise any event the minimum capacity of the public should be 50 per cent of the total capacity of the hall or the space available. Also the other Covid-19 basic rules like keeping social distancing, compulsory wearing of face masks, giving sanitisers should be followed strictly. However, some Punekars have gotten over the Covid fear. Seema Kalantri a resident said, “It is time to celebrate the new year and now even the Covid cases have gone down, so we have nothing to worry about. We have taken both doses of Covid vaccines and we are aware of our own safety. Celebrations give positive energy to people and we are going to enjoy the events,”While talking about these events and action taken on the violators, one of the PMC’s senior officials on anonymity said, “Currently we are not taking much action on the events or programs organised for public, as Covid cases are low and its time for year-end celebrations. But if needed and where there is large crowd gathering, PMC workers will go and penalise the organisers,”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/events-in-pune-buzzing-again-with-covid-norms-the-casualty-101640180447709.html
22-12-2021||Lucknow||Seven new exchange nodes to bolster Internet ecosystem in UP||LUCKNOW Seven new Internet exchange nodes will be launched in poll-bound Uttar Pradesh (UP) on Thursday to strengthen the internet ecosystem in the state. Located in Meerut, Agra, Kanpur, Lucknow, Prayagraj, Varanasi and Gorakhpur, these nodes will be launched from Agra. People from the other six locations will be able to connect virtually to the inauguration ceremony. Till date, only one internet exchange node was operating in UP in Gautam Buddha Nagar. These exchanges help improve Internet speed for consumers, ensure better resilience, stability, efficiency and quality of service at a lower cost, stated a government release. “Setting up of internet exchange is a part of PM Modi’s Digital India vision of connecting all Indians with open, safe and trusted internet,” IT minister Chandrasekhar had said at an event recently. According to an estimate, broadband users had increased from 250 million to approximately 840 million over the last couple of years and data consumption saw an increase of 189 times (from 62.9 peta bytes to 11,924 petabytes). A government release claimed that government policies resulted in increase of Internet Service Providers from nearly 221 to approximately 1,556 (a 7-fold increase) over the last 7 years since 2014.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/seven-new-exchange-nodes-to-bolster-internet-ecosystem-in-up-101640179127171.html
22-12-2021||Lucknow||IIM-L, Apollo Medskills launch executive programme in healthcare management||The Indian Institute of Management, Lucknow (IIM-L) in collaboration with Apollo Medskills Limited have launched Executive Programme in Healthcare Management (EPHM) that will help in developing appropriate managerial capacity among the youth in the fast growing health sector in India. “The programme will commence in March 2022. It is designed by taking necessary inputs from both public and private health sectors of India and similar economies in the region. We strongly believe that this programme will add value and capacity building in Indian healthcare sector,” said Prof S Venkataramanaiah of IIM-L while addressing a press conference in Lucknow on Wednesday.The programme duration is 250 learning hours with a recommended schedule of 5-6 hours/week.He said the uniqueness of this programme is the experiential learning that every participant receives by way of attending the immersion programme. “All participants will have the opportunity to experience the concepts they have been acquainted with in the classroom in a real time campus immersion at IIM Lucknow and an industrial visit at Apollo hospitals. This enhances the students’ understanding of the value chain while being present in the relevant environment,” he added.Speaking on the occasion, Dr Srinivasa Rao Pulijala, CEO, Apollo MedSkills Limited and the EPHM director, said: “The on-going developments in India’s healthcare industry is paving way for creating millions of jobs in the sector. This executive programme will definitely nurture and shape the career of hundreds of youth who aspire to take the leadership roles in the health industry. Students will benefit with learning from the industry experts from both management and healthcare sectors.” “During the pandemic period, we are witnessing a sharp rise in number of hospitals, clinics, diagnostic centres, rehabilitation centres across urban, semi-urban and in some pockets of rural India. These health facilities are on the look-out for those talented people who are capable of running them effectively and efficiently. This unique industry is in urgent need of highly skilled people,” Pulijala added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/iiml-apollo-medskills-launch-executive-programme-in-healthcare-management-101640178227248.html
22-12-2021||Lucknow||Former SP MP Dimple Yadav and daughter Tina test positive for Covid-19||Dimple Yadav, former MP and wife of Samajwadi Party (SP) chief Akhilesh Yadav, and their daughter Tina have tested positive for the coronavirus disease (Covid-19).Deputy chief medical officer (CMO) Milind Vardhan said the mother and daughter have isolated themselves at their home where they are undergoing necessary treatment.Vardhan said Tina got herself tested for Covid-19 after she developed fever and Dimple's sample was collected on the basis of contact-tracing protocol.Taking to Twitter on Wednesday, Dimple, a former two-time member of parliament (MP) of the Samajwadi Party, said she contracted the virus despite being “fully vaccinated” and is not “showing any symptom” yet.
22-12-2021||Lucknow||Ace mountaineer Toolika Rani to spread voter awareness in Lucknow||Squadron leader Toolika Rani, who is the first woman from Uttar Pradesh to climb Mt Everest, has been appointed as SVEEP (systematic voter education and electoral participation) Ambassador for Lucknow to spread voter awareness and increase voter participation in the upcoming Uttar Pradesh assembly polls 2022.SVEEP is the flagship programme of Election Commission of India started in 2009 under which voters are made aware of their right to vote, its power to strengthen democracy and about the general process of voting. As SVEEP Ambassador, Toolika would participate in various activities organised by the state administration in educational institutions, women institutions and among general public to create awareness among students, women and people in general to encourage and enable them to exercise their right to vote actively and judiciously. A letter to this regard has been issued by CDO (chief development officer) Ashwini Kumar Pandey and has been sent to district magistrate, assistant district election commissioner, basic education officer, assistant information commissioner, district panchayat raj officer etc.Toolika has not only scaled Mount Everest but also has to her credit 23 mountaineering and trekking expeditions in India, Russia, Nepal, Africa and Iran. Besides, she is the first Indian woman to climb Asia’s highest volcano Mt. Damavand in Iran. While serving in Indian Air Force for ten years she has trained hundreds of future officers in military training, including India’s first three women fighter pilots. She has been felicitated with 14 awards, including Rani Laxmi Bai Veerta Puruskar by Uttar Pradesh government. As a motivational speaker, she has delivered over 130 talks and interviews in India, USA, UK, Bulgaria and Italy. Her recently published book, ‘Beyond That Wall: Redemption on Everest’ has been awarded ‘Sahitya Shree’ Award by Rubaru Foundation, Lucknow.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/ace-mountaineer-toolika-rani-to-spread-voter-awareness-in-lucknow-101640177686819.html
22-12-2021||Pune||Traffic diversions for Metro work on Baner-Pashan road from today||PUNE As the work on the flyover of Metro (Hinjewadi to Baner route) will commence from Thursday vehicular movement will be diverted on Baner-Pashan road to keep the traffic moving at the Savitribai Phule Pune University (SPPU) chowk.The barricades will be placed on Thursday to create a rotary movement at Abhimaanshree Society to travel to Pashan and Baner, as per traffic police officials.“We have created a rotary route for people travelling to Pashan and Baner with one route going from Chaturshringi, Modern College towards Pashan, where people who wish to go to Baner will turn to Abhimanshree Society and then left towards Baner for those wishing to go towards SPPU. The same will apply for people travelling from Pashan to SPPU chowk, thus making sure there is no standstill and chaos,” said deputy commissioner of police (DCP) traffic Rahul Shrirame.“Once we barricade the entire stretch of the Baner road, Abhimanshree Society till SPPU chowk will be one lane. We will also study the experience of the commuters regarding the traffic corrections if needed, but the rotary one way will be a permanent for the next three to four years,” added Shrirame.He further added that following a discussion with the Pune Metropolitan Region Development Authority (PMRDA) and Pune municipal commissioner, there will be an additional 200 wardens deployed with the 100 wardens starting from Thursday.“It’s a good decision to ease the traffic and I appreciate that the traffic police have planned it in advance. It is not a long detour so it will not be inconvenient for the residents of Baner, Balewadi, Mahalunge,” said Sangeetha Baheti, a resident of Baner.The traffic from Aundh Bremen chowk to Raj Bhavan road will not be hampered, but the traffic police have made the road leading to Bhosale nagar from Cosmos Bank as one way for traffic. Heavy vehicles have been banned from coming on to Baner chowk to Abhimanshree Society from 7 am to 11 pm and no parking and no halting will be allowed on both sides of the Raj Bhavan road starting from Rajiv Gandhi bridge to SPPU chowk.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/traffic-diversions-for-metro-work-on-baner-pashan-road-from-today-101640177626898.html
22-12-2021||Lucknow||Azadi Ka Amrit Mahotsav shows importance of sacrifices made for independence: Yogi||Chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Wednesday said the Azadi Ka Amrit Mahotsav was meant to enable the present and future generations to remember the importance of the sacrifices made to attain independence.Yogi Adityanath was speaking at an event organised at KD Singh Babu Stadium of Lucknow on Wednesday.“We didn’t get freedom just by asking. We had to undertake a long struggle and make several sacrifices to get freedom. The Azadi ka Amrit Mahotsav is meant for our present and future generations to remember the importance of the sacrifices made to attain independence,” Yogi said.The event was part of the ongoing Azadi Ka Amrit Mahotsav celebrations.“The revolt of 1857 was an essential element struggle for freedom and was centered in Uttar Pradesh. It remained so till we finally got our independence from the British rule,” Yogi said.The chief minister also mentioned the surgical strikes, stating that India has now become a country that is capable to give a befitting response to any attack by its enemies. He also referred to how the challenges posed by Covid were overcome.“Going forward, we are becoming a self-reliant nation. When Covid broke out, we were battling shortage of PPE kits and sanitizers but now we are exporting them to other countries in the world. Vaccines made in India are saving lives of people across the globe,” Yogi Adityanath said.The event was attended by children from various schools of the state capital and their parents. Chief minister Yogi Adityanath honoured Prahlad Prasad Prajapati, 95, a freedom fighter. Army veterans, gallantry award winners and family members of martyrs were also felicitated by the chief minister.Sporting colourful caps, the students were present on the ground while others found place on the stands around it. According to the information department, over 51,000 people attended the event. Lucknow mayor Sanyukta Bhatia was also present at the event along with local BJP leaders||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/azadi-ka-amrit-mahotsav-shows-importance-of-sacrifices-made-for-independence-yogi-101640177206830.html
22-12-2021||Pune||Pune Metro on the way, but roadblocks remain as Dec 2021 deadline ends||PUNE First mooted in 2002, the foundation stone of the much-delayed Pune Metro project was laid five years ago on December 18, 2016, by Prime Minister Narendra Modi. But since then, the project has had a few hurdles while trying to navigate its various routes. Five years on, the two lines of the metro is nowhere near completion as the December 2021 deadline approaches. Covid-induced restrictions which led to a massive exodus of workers, delayed the work, said officials. From politicking among parties to land acquisition problems, the project has been on and off the track often. The latest to be added to the long list of hurdles is the work being halted at Sambhaji bridge also known as Lakdi Pul. The three Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) partners- the Congress, Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) and Shiv Sena have opposed the height of the viaduct at Lakdi pul as it will obstruct Ganesh emersion process.  Maha-Metro (Maharashtra Metro Rail Corporation Limited) executive director Atul Gadgil said, “The of Sambhaji bridge is five-ana-a-half metres, which is same throughout Karve road. All PMC flyovers are also at the same level. We have asked for police protection to restart the work of installing viaduct at Sambhaji bridge at Deccan. Once the bandobast is confirmed, we will execute the work within a night.”The Maha-Metro is executing two metro corridors -Vanaz to Ramwadi and Pimpri-Chinchwad to Swargate. The first hurdle was that of elevated or underground metro, it was only when union minister Nitin Gadkari got involved, that the authorities reached the conclusion of an elevated metro. Another hurdle was the Pataleshwar caves on JM road, while there was demand to construct it parallel to city area, the metro was diverted from Karve road to riverside road instead of JM road. Later the project was challenged at the National Green Tribunal (NGT), but the project managed to get a green signal.The metro route was challenged yet again at Aga Khan Palace, considering it as a monument, the court ordered Maha-Metro to change the route,and then the corridor was shifted to Kalyaninagar. A controversy for land acquisation also emerged at Kamgar Putala and Budhear peth.Mayor Murlidhar Mohol said, “The metro is not the issue only related to Pune Municipal Corporation but various organisations are related to it. We appealed the opposition parties that we will meet urban Development minister Eknath Shinde for it. PMC has already spoken with Ganesh mandals. But Maha-Metro has ruled out hydraulic option for Sambhaji bridge due to technical things, and we need to accept it.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pune-metro-on-the-way-but-roadblocks-remain-as-dec-2021-deadline-ends-101640175646692.html
22-12-2021||Delhi||After Omicron's arrival, Delhi reports biggest daily rise in infections in 6 months||Delhi on Wednesday reported 125 new coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases in the last 24 hours, the biggest single-day surge in six months. With 63,313 Covid tests, the national capital recorded a positivity rate of 0.20 per cent and didn't register any virus-related deaths. Delhi has so far reported 14,42,515 Covid cases and 25,102 related deaths, with a case fatality rate of 1.74 per cent. The active Covid cases currently stand at 624, according to the daily health bulletin. The national capital has detected the highest number of Omicron infections across the country, prompting the authorities to tighten the social distancing measures and announce fresh Covid protocols.Delhi bans Christmas, New Year gatherings as Omicron cases riseOn Wednesday, the Delhi Disaster Management Authority ordered a ban on all gatherings for Christmas and New Year celebrations in the national capital in view of rising Covid cases and the emergence of the Omicron variant. "All DMs and District DCPs shall ensure that no cultural event/gatherings/congregation/take place for celebrating Christmas or New Year in NCT of Delhi," the order reads.The DDMA said that the mask mandate and restrictions are not being strictly followed, directing district magistrates to conduct surprise checks and take strict penal action against violators as per the law.India has so far reported 214 cases of Omicron variant, with Delhi leading the new variant of concern tally. Delhi has reported 57 Omicron cases, followed by Maharashtra (54), Telangana (24), Karnataka (19), Rajasthan (18), Kerala (15), and Gujarat (14). Jammu and Kashmir has reported three Omicron cases, while Odisha, Andhra Pradesh and Uttar Pradesh have two cases each.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/after-omicron-s-arrival-delhi-reports-biggest-daily-rise-in-infections-in-6-months-101640174581196.html
22-12-2021||Lucknow||Prime Minister to gift ₹2095 crore projects, schemes to Varanasi today||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will gift projects and schemes worth over ₹2095 crore to Varanasi on Thursday, an official statement said. This includes laying the foundation of projects worth ₹1225 crore.It would be PM’s second visit to his Lok Sabha constituency in 10 days. Before this, he was in Varanasi on December 13 when he inaugurated the Kashi Vishwanath Corridor. He also attended a conclave of chief ministers the next day.Among the projects, he would lay the foundation stone of the Banas Dairy Kashi Sankul (complex) at the UP State Industrial Development Authority Food Park in Karkhiyaon area of Varanasi on Thursday, said the Bharatiya Janata Party’s Kashi region spokesperson Navratan Rathi on Wednesday.Rathi said the dairy project will empower the farmers and milk producers of eastern UP region, besides providing customers good quality products at affordable prices.Spread over 30 acres, the dairy will be built at a cost of about ₹475 crore and will have the capacity to process five lakh litre of milk per day.The Prime Minister will also digitally transfer about ₹35 crore bonus to the bank accounts of more than 1.7 lakh (170,000) milk producers associated with Banas Dairy, officials said.Modi will also lay the foundation stone for a biogas-based electricity generation plant for the Milk Producers’ Cooperative Union Plant at Ramnagar, Varanasi to make it energy self-sufficient.He will also launch a portal and logo dedicated to the Conformity Assessment Scheme of milk products, developed by the Bureau of Indian Standards (BIS) with the help of National Dairy Development Board (NDDB). The unified logo, featuring logos of both BIS and NDDB quality mark, will simplify the certification process for the dairy sector and will reassure the public about dairy product quality, said a Press Information Bureau statement.In another effort to reduce the land ownership issues at the grassroot level, the Prime Minister will virtually distribute the rural residential rights record “Gharauni” under the Swamitva scheme of the Union ministry of panchayati raj, to over 20 lakh residents of Uttar Pradesh.Multiple urban development projects, including six projects for the redevelopment of Old Kashi wards, a parking and surface park at Beniabagh, beautification of two ponds, a sewage treatment plant at Ramna village and advanced surveillance cameras at 720 locations under Smart City Mission will be inaugurated.The Union education ministry’s Inter University Centre for Teachers Education, built at a cost of around ₹107 crore and a Teachers’ Education Centre at Central Institute of Higher Tibetan Studies, built at a cost of over ₹7 crore will also be inaugurated. Further, Modi will inaugurate residential flats and staff quarters at BHU and ITI Karaundi.In the health sector, he will inaugurate a project comprising doctors’ hostel, a nurses’ hostel and shelter home amounting to ₹130 crore, at the Mahamana Pandit Madan Mohan Malviya Cancer Centre. He will open a 50-bed Integrated Ayush Hospital at Bhadrasi. The Prime Minister will also lay the foundation of the ₹49 Cr Government Homoeopathic Medical College in Pindra tehsil under the Ayush Mission.In the road sector, the Prime Minister will lay the foundation stones of two “4 to 6 lane” road widening projects for Prayagraj and Bhadohi. This will improve connectivity to Varanasi and be a step towards resolving the problem of the city’s traffic congestion.Modi will also inaugurate Phase-1 of a tourism development project related to Ravidas temple at Seer Govardhan, Varanasi.Rathi said that all the preparations for the PM Modi’s programme have been completed.Banas DairyIn July 2021, Banas Dairy provided 100 cows of the best indigenous breeds to farmer families in Varanasi for model dairy farming. These farmers were given training in cattle rearing and dairy farm management and arrangements have been made for continuous guidance for animal husbandry, the statement said.Currently, over 25,000 litres of milk is procured on a daily basis from 111 places in Varanasi.Banas Dairy is setting up its third plant in Varanasi, Uttar Pradesh, after Lucknow and Kanpur. Its capacity can be expanded up to 10 lakh litres per day and will be built on 30 acres of land with an estimated cost of ₹475 crore. The plant will also produce 50,000 litres of ice cream, 20 tons of paneer, 75,000 litres of butter milk, 50 tons of curd, 15,000 litres of lassi and 10,000 kg of Amul sweets per day. The plant will also have a bakery unit. It will also include a take home ration plant to produce nutritional supplements for women and children.This project will benefit the local farmers of 1,000 neighbouring villages of Purvanchal region like Varanasi, Jaunpur, Machhlishahr, Chandauli, Bhadohi, Ghazipur, Mirzapur and Azamgarh. They will get ₹8,000-10,000 for their milk per month. This project is expected to provide direct employment to 750 people in the plant, about 2,350 people in allied works and about 1,00,000 people in villages, the statement added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/prime-minister-to-launch-870-crore-projects-in-varanasi-101640173606607.html
22-12-2021||Mumbai||Policy on travel on local train restriction as per Constitution: State tells HC||Mumbai: While responding to a query of the Bombay high court (HC) on the discriminatory policy of allowing only fully vaccinated persons to use public transport like trains, the state government has stated in its affidavit that such preventive measures were necessary to ward off the likelihood of the third wave of Covid. The affidavit states that it has done reasonable classification and imposed reasonable restrictions as per the Articles of the Constitution of India for non-vaccinated persons so that they do not endanger their own lives and of their families as well as those who are vaccinated while commuting on public transport. In light of the above, the challenge of the petitioners to the notification which restricts public transport usage by non-vaccinated persons was not valid and hence the public interest litigations should be dismissed. The division bench of chief justice Dipankar Datta and justice Makarand Karnik while hearing the PILs filed by activists Yohan Tengra and Firoze Mithiborewala was informed that the travel restrictions through public transport for non-vaccinated persons imposed by the state government was unconstitutional and violated the rights of the citizens. The court in the previous hearing last week had asked the state government to justify its stand on such discriminatory practices. In response, the state filed and submitted an affidavit on Wednesday. The affidavit filed by Debashish Chakrabarty, chief secretary, the government of Maharashtra states that the claim of the petitioners of their fundamental rights being violated was not valid. The affidavit states that as per article 14 (a) the distinction between vaccinated and non-vaccinated persons was ‘reasonable classification’ as there is a rational nexus to the objective to be achieved, the objective being protection of concerned persons. The affidavit further stated that article 19 (1) (d) of the Constitution permits ‘reasonable restriction’ in the interest of the general public. An unvaccinated person will endanger his own life and that of his family as well as others hence the notification restraining non-vaccinated persons from using any form of public transport was valid. The affidavit also adds under article 21 the right to life and liberty was not an absolute right so as to endanger his life or the life of others by non-vaccination. The affidavit concludes that as vaccines are easily available and nearly 7.9 crore citizens have taken one dose and 4.9 crore two doses the petitioners should not raise objections on behalf of others and the PILs should be dismissed. Another affidavit filed by the health department through Dr Sadhana Tayade, director of Health Services states that the Covid cases have reduced in the state due to vaccination and there is some evidence that vaccinated persons are less likely to transmit the same. In light of this, the affidavit stated that by not allowing usage of public transport for non-vaccinated persons is only to secure the right to life of vaccinated people. After the petitioners informed the bench that they wanted to file responses to the affidavits, the court posted a hearing of the PIL’s to January 3.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/policy-on-travel-on-local-train-restriction-as-per-constitution-state-tells-hc-101640173486336.html
22-12-2021||Pune||Indigenously developed armoured engineer reconnaissance vehicle inducted into Indian Army||PUNE The first set of indigenously developed next-generation armoured engineer reconnaissance vehicle was inducted into the Corps of Engineers of Indian Army during a function attended by General MM Naravane, Chief of Army Staff, at Pune, on Tuesday.The system has been designed by Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO) and manufactured by Ordnance Factory Medak and Bharat Electronics Limited, Pune, according to a press release issued by the Defence ministry.Despite the various restrictions imposed by the Covid-19 pandemic since the last one year, the supply of the vehicle to the Indian Army has been on schedule.The vehicle is capable of carrying out reconnaissance of water obstacles and boggy patches for the execution of engineer tasks with capabilities to carry out reconnaissance and provide a real-time update to force commanders, the Defence ministry press release stated.The system will enhance the existing engineer reconnaissance capabilities of the Indian Army and would be a major game-changer in support of mechanised operations in future conflicts.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/indigenously-developed-armoured-engineer-reconnaissance-vehicle-inducted-into-indian-army-101640172586133.html
22-12-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab politics: Stand vindicated, says Sidhu after Majithia booked||A day after Akali MLA and former Punjab revenue minister Bikram Singh Majithia was booked in a drug case, Navjot Singh Sidhu said his decision to step down as the state Congress chief to protest the continuation of then DGP Iqbal Preet Singh Sahota was vindicated. Also read: Lookout notice for former Punjab minister Majithia in drugs case“Those who didn’t understand two months ago why I resigned, are now getting it,” Sidhu said at a press conference at his Amritsar residence on Wednesday. Sidhu had resigned as the Punjab Congress chief in September, demanding the removal of the then DGP Sahota and then advocate general APS Deol besides seeking justice in the drug case and 2015 sacrilege incidents. The Amritsar-East MLA said he hoped for a bigger role so that “everything can be changed with a roadmap. I will support Rahul Gandhi and Priyanka Gandhi for life and will not budge from my word. I’ll stay loyal to Punjab. I don’t believe in lollipops or false promises to attain power. I’ll fight for Punjab’s revival.” Criticising former chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh, he said, “We (Congress) had 70 MLAs, but a Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) chief minister (Captain) was running the government. Forty MLAs were demanding action against the drug mafia, but he (Captain) did nothing. Punjab could have been a surplus state, but the money of the state is in the pocket of a few. The politics of the mafia should end.” Targeting the Shiromani Akali Dal leadership of the Badals, Sidhu said, “I’ve been fighting against the partnership of the Captain and the Badals. Both have been protecting each other’s interests. The people of Punjab should understand that if they vote for the Badals, their vote will go to Captain, and if they vote for Captain, their vote will go to the Badals. Both are together. They have no moral authority.” Terming the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) statement that the drug case against Majithia was an election stunt, Sidhu said, “(AAP national convener Arvind) Kejriwal had started his campaign against drugs but he had himself sought an apology from the accused (Majithia). This is the same man who allows Badals to run their buses to Delhi airport.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-politics-stand-vindicated-says-sidhu-after-majithia-booked-101640172466072.html
22-12-2021||Bhopal||‘Most unsafe’ hospital, says Cong as MP govt gives grim details of infant deaths||BHOPAL: As many as 37 infants, on average, died daily at the Special Neonatal Care Unit (SNCU) of Bhopal’s Hamidia Hospital over the last five years, Madhya Prades health minister Prabhuram Chaudhary told the state assembly on Tuesday.“In the past five years, 500,996 infants have been admitted to [the] SNCU and 68301 died. The highest deaths were reported in 2019-20... 14,759,” Chaudhary said in response to Congress lawmaker Jitu Patwari’s question.Patwari said the hospital’s SNCU is most unsafe in Madhya Pradesh. “The state government should fix responsibility for deaths of infants because deaths of 13% of infants are really a matter of concern. The condition of health facilities is getting worse by the day, but the Bharatiya Janata Party-led state government has not shown any concern over it.”According to the Sample Registration Survey of 2018, the infant mortality rate in Madhya Pradesh was the highest in India with 48 per 1,000 live births.Chaudhary maintained most of the infants referred to the Hamidia Hospital’s SNCU are in serious condition. “Prematurely born are also admitted to the Hamidia Hospital. I cannot say survival rate is good but doctors do their best to save infants.”In November, 40 infants were admitted to the hospital when a fire broke out and claimed four lives. Later, 10 infants also died within 48 hours.
22-12-2021||Pune||Sutradhara’s Tales: 12 men of Barbhai conspiracy safeguard the Maratha empire||Murder of Narayanrao Peshwa was a particularly difficult episode in the reign of Maratha Empire, second only to the Panipat debacle. All the diplomats and powerful noblemen and ministers in Pune were perplexed at sheer cruelty and blatancy of the gruesome incidence. As a safe position, all of them accepted the authority of Raghunathrao Peshwa as acting peshwa till he was reinstated by Chhatrapati. But, the doubt about Raghobadada’s involvement in Narayanrao’s murder had taken root in everyone’s mind. This eventually led to the great conspiracy by “Barbhai” (12 brothers!) in the efforts to save the Maratha state from moral and political downfall. There existed two camps in Peshwa courts, one belonging to old timers such as Purandare, Rajebahaddar, Vinchurkar, Gangadhar Chandrachud and Chinto Vitthal Rayarikar headed by Sakharam Bapu Bokil. All these ministers had old association with peshwas and some acted in capacity of their money lenders. Sakharam Bapu had played crucial roles in dealing with neighbours such as Hyder, Nizam, Karvirkar and Nagpurkar Bhonsales. Other camp was led by relatively new but able finance minister of Marathas, Nana Phadnis! Sardar families such as Patwardhans, Rastes, Pethes, Phadkes who had risen to a level under guidance of Madhavrao Peshwa I and were part of newer camp under Nana. Nana Phadnis had important forts such as Sinhagad, Lohagad, Purandare in his custody and was looking after Peshwa family’s private affairs. He was known for carrying out the operations of Maratha state from Satara, too. Political heavyweights and able commanders such as Mahadji Scindia and Holkars were more favourable towards Nana than Sakharam Bapur Bokil. However, both the camps were in agreement about sacking Raghoba from Peshwa position. They fear utter loss of control and damage to pride and moral foundation of Maratha state caused by this gruesome act. Each of them was hesitant before but finally Sakharam Bapu Bokil took the lead to bring all the ministers together. Ramshastri Prabhune had already pronounced Raghobadada guilty of the crime, thereby taking away his moral authority of occupying Peshwa position for Marathas. “Barbhai” gathered under Sakharam Bapu Bokil and Nana Phadnis to take pledge to oppose Raghunathrao’s appointment and give their best to displace him. When Narayanrao was murdered, his wife Gangabai was pregnant with one and a half month old child. Many conspiracies were hatched to kill her or at least miscarry her unborn child, who could have been the heir to the Peshwa position, by Anandibai Peshwa, wife of Raghunathrao Peshwa. These actions further angered the ministers of Barbhai conspiracy. All of them consented to saving the Narayanrao’s unborn child. If it would have been a boy, he would automatically inherit the Peshwa robes. If it was not the case, Gangabai would adopt and the collective of ministers would act as heir regent till the son comes of age. It was mutually agreed that Sakharam Bapu would work as primary incharge while Nana Phadnis would occupy second position and execute the plans. The opportunity to act in this direction presented itself in a short period. Raghobadada aka Raghunathrao Peshwa launched a campaign towards Nagpur in the 1773 to support Mudhoji Bhosale against his brother Sabaji Bhosale who were undergoing a family feud over inheritance of commanding position. Sabaji Bhonsale was a close confidant of Hyderabad Nizam. Raghobadada envisaged a grand plan of subjugating Sabaji and Nizam, demanding ransom from Nizam and then to attack Arkot Nawab Mohammad Ali and Madras under British with Nizam’s military assistance. This grand plan would have been successfully with generous aid, exemplary bravery and sharp intellect. Raghobadada did not lack in commandership, but definitely felt short of finances and wisdom. He was heavily dependent on his subordinates for crucial decision-making who only presented him false impressions of his capabilities. Sakharam Bapu and Nana left the marching camp under pretext of illness and returned to Pune. From Pune, Nana dispatched several letters to form secret political alliance against Raghobadada. Patwardhan, Raste, Pethe, Dhaygude and Purandare who were part of the marching camp were intimated about execution of the plan. Nizam and Sabaji Bhosale happily participated in the grand conspiracy! As Raghobadada divided troops ordering sardar Trimbak Pethe to attack Sabaji at Nagpur, he took the remaining troops to tackle Nizam and later attack Hyder Ali in Karnataka. As soon as Raghobadada turned his back, Pethe, Sabaji and Nizam joined hands thus, cornering Raghobadada from all sides. Raghoba quickly entered into “Kalyandurg treaty” where territory worth revenue of ₹1 crore was given to Hyder Ali. Meanwhile in Pune, the plot to hurt Gangabai was uncovered and she was quickly shifted to fort Purandar under supervision of sardar Haripant Phadke for safety. The Peshwa administration for a while was, hence, shifted to fort Purandar and was conducted under name of Gangabai and deceased Narayanrao. Trimbak Pethe died fighting Raghobadada at Pandharpur and was replaced by Haripant Phadke, a close associate of Nana Phadnis. To escape Barbhai joint front, Nizam and Sabaji, Raghobadada sought shelter in north with Mahadji Scindia and Holkars. Scindias and Holkar were hesitant to take direct action against Raghobadada and suggested dialogue. Haripant Phadke entered dialogue with Raghobadada which only dragged as the time passed. Meanwhile, Sawai Madhavrao Peshwa was born at Purandar on April 18, 1774 and was officially gifted with “Peshwa robes” on 40th day of his birth. It was mutually agreed and Nana Phadnis was appointed as chief regent. Ministers such as Moroba Dada Phadnis who were not involved in the “Barbhai” conspiracy were bitter and planned unsuccessful attack on the newly born child and Gangabai which was luckily throttled. The negotiations of Barbhai and Raghobadada did not bear fruit and suffering neglect from Scindias and Holkars, Raghobadada went to plead support with British at Surat to support his claim to Peshwa hood. In return, he promised the British island of Salsette and Vasai and Thane territory worth ₹19 lakh revenue and ₹1 lakh for the military expense on March 6, 1775. Sly British company was not ready for a full-fledged war with Marathas, ended up signing Purandar treaty in 1776. This treaty helped in losing Company’s support for Raghobadada. But, it brought the cunning British East India Company to doorstep of Maratha centre. Raghobadada could never return to Pune. Nana Phadnis and “Barbhai’ collective brought the poetic justice to widow and legitimate heir of Narayanrao Peshwa by acting judiciously in face of imminent threat! Saili Palande-Datar is an indologist, environmentalist, history researcher and farmer. She can be reached @ sailikdatar@gmail.com||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/sutradharas-tales-12-men-of-barbhai-conspiracy-safeguard-the-maratha-empire-101640169525854.html
22-12-2021||Kolkata||BSF guns down alleged Bangladeshi smuggler in West Bengal’s Malda||BERHAMPORE: Border Security Force (BSF) personnel shot dead an alleged Bangladeshi smuggler at Kaliachak in West Bengal’s Malda district on Wednesday, people aware of the matter said.The alleged smuggler and his 20-odd associates attacked the BSF personnel with sharp weapons when they were intercepted on their way to Bangladesh, an officer posted in the region said. After being shot, the alleged smuggler identified himself as Ibrahim Sheikh, 24, a resident of Dhulipara village in Shibganj. Sheikh was declared dead at a local hospital, where he was rushed to.The BSF officer said the gang was trying to return to Bangladesh with bottles of cough syrup. “Our troopers tried to stop them by using stun grenades. But the tactics did not work. The smugglers kept running towards the Bangladesh border. Some of them turned back and attacked us. The troopers had to fire one round in self-defence and a man was hit. The others managed to escape,” said the officer, who did not want to be named.The BSF seized a mobile phone, two sickles and 197 bottles of cough syrup from the spot. It has sent a note to the Border Guards Bangladesh (BGB), saying Sheikh lived around six kilometres from the international border and was found 1,200 metres inside the Indian territory. The letter urged the BGB to be more vigilant.Ruling Trinamool Congress leader Moajjem Hossain said they do not know the circumstances under which the BSF opened fire. “If the troopers had caught the smuggler alive, he might have given valuable information.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/bsf-guns-down-alleged-bangladeshi-smuggler-in-west-bengal-s-malda-101640168685681.html
22-12-2021||Mumbai||‘Maharashtra CM ailing, should hand over charge to someone else’: BJP on Uddhav Thackeray||Chandrakant Patil, the chief of the opposition Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) in Maharashtra, said on Wednesday that chief minister Uddhav Thackeray, a former ally of the party, should hand over the charge to ‘someone else’ if, due to his own ill health, he cannot physically attend the winter session of the state legislature assembly.Also Read | CM Uddhav Thackeray discharged after spine surgery“It is natural for the CM to be absent as he is ill. Therefore, he should hand over the charge to somebody else without any hesitation,” Patil said, speaking to the media ahead of the commencement of the winter session.This ‘someone else’ should preferably be a person from the Thackeray-headed Shiv Sena, or the chief minister's own son, state tourism minister Aaditya Thackeray, the Maharashtra BJP president further said. “This is because there is a possibility that the CM doesn't trust the Congress and the NCP,” Patil remarked. मुख्यमंत्री आजारी असल्याने गैरहजर असणे स्वाभाविक आहे. त्यामुळे मुख्यमंत्र्यांनी उगाच हट्ट न करता चार्ज दुसऱ्या कुणाकडेतरी द्यायला हवा. काँग्रेस आणि राष्ट्रवादी काँग्रेसकडून चार्ज परत मिळणार नाही, अशी शक्यता असल्याने किमान आदित्य ठाकरेंकडे तरी तो चार्ज द्यावा. pic.twitter.com/MYrVFSWzEcThe Shiv Sena, Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) and Congress together govern the western state as constituents of the ruling Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA).Patil, meanwhile, also said that the BJP ‘will not accept’ Thackeray's absence from the legislature session.However, responding to the BJP leader, state water resources minister and NCP leader Jayant Patil said that the chief minister is in 'good health,' and can come to the legislature anytime, though he is currently working from home.The BJP and the Sena together governed Maharashtra from 2014 to 2019, and were victorious in the assembly elections held in November two years ago. The two went separate ways after an impasse over the chief minister's post, with the Sena joining hands with the NCP and Congress to form the MVA.Recently, Union home minister Amit Shah described the MVA as a ‘punctured autorickshaw,’ adding that the alliance represents the culture of ‘dealer, broker and transfer.’Last month, Union minister Narayan Rane said that by March next year, the BJP will have regained power in Maharashtra.(with PTI inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-cm-ailing-should-hand-over-charge-to-someone-else-bjp-on-uddhav-thackeray-101640165491419.html
22-12-2021||Mumbai||‘Reasonable restriction’: Maharashtra defends public transport bar on unvaccinated||The Maharashtra government on Wednesday defended the policy of disallowing unvaccinated people from using public transport, saying preventive measures were necessary amid the likelihood of a third Covid-19 wave. In an affidavit filed in the Bombay high court, it cited reasonable restrictions as per the Constitution and said the restriction has been imposed to ensure unvaccinated people do not endanger their lives, those of their families as well as vaccinated people while commuting.The Maharashtra government late last month issued Covid-related guidelines saying only fully vaccinated people would be allowed to access public transport. In the affidavit, it called the challenge to its notification in this regard invalid and urged the court to dismiss public interest litigations filed against it.The petitioners, activists Yohan Tengra and Firoze Mithiborewala, argued the travel restrictions were unconstitutional and violated the people’s rights.Also Read: Maharashtra to spend bulk of clean air funds on electrifying public transportThe court last week asked the state government to justify its stand on such discriminatory practices.In response, Debashish Chakrabarty, chief secretary, filed the affidavit citing the Constitution and added the distinction between vaccinated and unvaccinated persons was “reasonable classification” to protect people. It referred to Constitution’s Article 19 (1) (d) and said it permits “reasonable restriction” in the interest of the public.The affidavit said Constitution’s Article 21, which relates to the right to life and liberty, was not absolute so as to endanger lives. It added vaccines are easily available and over 70 million citizens have taken one dose and over 40 million two doses.In a separate affidavit, the state health department said the Covid-19 cases dipped in the state due to vaccination. It cited evidence that vaccinated people are less likely to transmit the virus. The affidavit said by preventing unvaccinated people from using public transport, the right to life of vaccinated people was being secured.The court has posted the hearing in the matter next on January 3.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/reasonable-restriction-maharashtra-defends-public-transport-bar-on-unvaccinated-101640167605614.html
22-12-2021||Delhi||Delhiites, is there enough alcohol for your Christmas dessert?||It’s the time to order plum cakes, puddings, ginger breads, stollens, and everything Christmassy. But, just when it’s time for the home bakers in the Capital to bake these treats, it’s also time for them to struggle with procuring a crucial ingredient for Xmas baking, that is alcohol. The liquor shortage in Delhi seems to have found its way to the shops of home bakers who are ruing about the hard times they are facing to find wine, brandy and rum to make Christmas desserts. Some are sourcing it from areas around Delhi, some are opting for expensive variants to be able to stick to their original recipes, and some are altering their recipes to make do with whatever is available. So will your Christmas cake and desserts be enough gooey this year? Rum, wine and whineGaurri Gupta from As Simple As Pie says that she faced a major issue in sourcing rum, and had to bring some changes in her recipe to avoid using alcohol. “This liquor shortage in Delhi is a big problem. A few days back, I could not find something as normal as one specific brand of rum, and ultimately had to alter my recipes. In fact, it became so bad that I was forced to turn back customers who came with high hopes to indulge in delicacies. With wine there’s a similar,” she says.Gurugram, Noida come to the rescue!With empty shelves at liquor shops in almost every part of the city, home bakers have started exploring shops outside the city, to meet the high demand for bakes at this time of the year. “Be it rum, brandy or red wine, nothing is available readily for professional bakers like us in Delhi. In fact, I couldn’t just sit and do nothing so at one point decided to source my stock from Gurugram. But that too was possible with great difficulty. It’s quite a challenge to bake to perfection the Christmas delights, if an important ingredient is missing,” says Shikha Sachdeva from The Culinary Courtyard.Supply low, Price highWith only a few selective brands available in the liquor shops, some home bakers are being forced to use high end, expensive brands to bake the Christmas cakes. “We use the regular rum, which is not available at all. Only the gold version is available, which gets expensive when we need it in higher quantity. And we can’t increase the cost of the desserts we make since the market is already so competitive,” shares Sachdeva. And Deeksha Dhingra, from Zana Patisserie, adds, “Being a small home baker it’s really difficult for me to manage this because it’s costing me double of what it was earlier! Sometimes I have to bear the excess cost because when I confirm an order for a cake, I have to quote the price to them at that very moment. And having already quoted the price, I can’t change it later else people will feat cheated. And I have tried to increase the price as well, but it has only lead to some cancellations, which is sad. It’s a tricky situation to be in.”The essence of it allWith limited quantity of alcohol available, using rum essence is another option that some home bakers have taken to exploring, in the need to deliver their Christmas orders in time. Ritu Dutt from Essenzaa, says, “For the rum cakes, I am using essence. A lot of other home bakers are also doing this to deal with this crises. So, either you use a less quantity of rum and use these essences instead or you could also just use the essence; like how we do it for those customers who don’t want alcohol in their cake. It gives a flavour of the rum cake without the rum. We are of course informing the customer that we are not using rum or using less quantity. But this has an automatical impact on the prices as well, and decreases them.”Author tweets @anjuriFollow more stories on Facebook and Twitter||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhiites-is-there-enough-alcohol-for-your-christmas-dessert-101640165925582.html
22-12-2021||Chandigarh||Lookout notice for former Punjab minister Majithia in drugs case||A day after Punjab Police booked Shiromani Akali Dal MLA and former Punjab minister Bikram Singh Majithia in a drugs case, the Union home ministry issued a lookout circular against him on the request of the state police. Also read: AIIMS director Dr Randeep Guleria’s fresh warning amid Omicron rise in IndiaThe lookout notice was issued on Tuesday by the Bureau of Immigration, a wing of the Union home ministry, on the request of Punjab Police that is trying to arrest the 46-year-old Majitha MLA booked under the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act on Monday following a report submitted by the special task force (STF) chief and additional director general of police Harpreet Singh Sidhu. The Bureau of Immigration has sent the copy of the notice to the additional director general of police (ADGP), counter intelligence. “The lookout circular shall remain in force until and unless a deletion request is received by the Bureau of Immigration from the originator itself,” the notice said. The lookout circular is a letter used by the authorities to check if a travelling person is wanted by the police. According to the 49-page FIR registered at the State Crime Police Station in Mohali, Majithia has been booked for cognisable offences under Sections 25 (Punishment for allowing premises, etc. to be used for commission of an offence), 27 (A) ( whoever is financing any activities indulging in production, manufacture, possession, sale, purchase, transportation, use or consumption, import and export or deal in any activities pertaining to narcotic drugs) and 29 (party to a criminal conspiracy to commit an offence) of NDPS Act. These sections have the provision of imprisonment up to 10 years along with a fine as decided by the court. Sufficient evidence against Majithia: FIR “According to the findings of the STF report, prima facie there is sufficient evidence to further investigate the role of Majithia as regards the allegations made in application under scrutiny,” the FIR read, mentioning the STF chief’s report prepared on the basis of analysis of investigation done by the Enforcement Directorate (ED) in the Jagdish Bhola drug case. In 2018, the STF chief was given the task to analyse the former Akali minister’s role. His report, based on the statements of drug case accused Jagjit Singh Chahal and Maninder Singh Bittu Aulakh to the ED, has been made part of the FIR. The drug case revolving around Arjuna awardee wrestler and dismissed DSP Jagdish Bhola involved a drug network that was busted by Punjab Police in 2013. On February 1, 2018, the STF had submitted its status report in the Punjab and Haryana high court, which later sought comments from the Punjab DGP and then home secretary. Since then, the report is lying in a sealed cover in the court. AG pushed for action on STF chief’s report The FIR also mentions Punjab’s advocate general DS Patwalia’s legal opinion which has strongly pushed for action on the STF chief’s report. “In my considered opinion which has been formed after having gone through the proceedings of the court, there is no impediment/embargo for the STF or any state agency to act upon the report submitted in the court. In fact, the court has made it categorically clear that law enforcement agencies must act upon the said reports in accordance with the law.” Patwalia’s opinion is different from that of his predecessor who advised against acting on the report without the consent of the high court. The process to register the case was initiated after DGP Sidharth Chattopadhyaya wrote to the director, Bureau of Investigation (BoI), on December 20, two days after he took charge as officiating Punjab DGP. The FIR has been registered on the complaint of the station house officer (SHO), state crime police station, inspector Kailash Bahadur. A special investigation team (SIT) has been constituted to investigate the case. The act invited immediate accusations that the ruling Congress in Punjab is trying to settle political scores ahead of assembly elections early next year. Majithia, the brother of former Union minister and Bathinda MP Harsimrat Kaur Badal, is a high-profile Akali leader. 
22-12-2021||Ranchi||Bihar chief minister Nitish Kumar starts Samaj Sudhar Yatra from Champaran today||PATNA: Bihar chief minister Nitish Kumar will on Wednesday begin his Samaj Sudhar Yatra (social reform tour) from East Champaran, where Mahatma Gandhi launched his Satyagraha against the British in 1917, on Wednesday. He will criss-cross the state before concluding the tour at Nalanda on January 15. This will be Kumar’s 13th yatra since he first became the chief minister in 2005.Kumar has said he seeks to create awareness, particularly among the women about social ills such as those related to liquor, and to inspect the implementation of development works during the tour. The yatra is seen as part of his efforts to ensure strict implementation of the prohibition, widely considered as one reason for Kumar’s popularity among women voters.Also Read: Bihar is alert and ready to counter Omicron, says Nitish KumarNitish Kumar is also expected to focus on raising awareness against child marriages, dowry, the Jal-Jeevan Haryali scheme related to water and greenery, and get feedback on the implementation of piped water programme. He will also address public meetings during the outreach.Leaders of the ruling Janata Dal (United) or JD (U) said the yatra will also help revitalise the party’s workers and gauge the people’s mood. JD (U) leader Ajay Alok said Kumar’s yatras have always started from Champaran, which is associated with Gandhi. “This has been a land of change. Kumar is greatly influenced by Mahatma Gandhi and that is why he too prefers to start all his yatras from Champaran.”Also Read: ‘Who let the booze in’, asks Tejashwi; alleges Nitish’s ‘liquor mafia nexus’In June 2005, Kumar first organised Nyaya Yatra and toured the state to seek people’s support after the Centre imposed President’s rule in the state. He organised the Vikas Yatra in January 2009 and Sewa Yatra in 2011 after getting re-elected. A Dhanyavad Yatra was also undertaken to thank people. In 2013, he undertook Adhikar Yatra to press for Bihar’s special status. His Sampark Yatra in 2014 sought to energise his party cadres after he briefly ended his alliance with the BJP. Jal Jeevan Haryali Yatra was his last in 2019.
22-12-2021||Bhopal||Indian made foreign liquor consumption in MP up by 23% in one decade: Govt||The annual intake of the Indian made foreign liquor (IMFL) in Madhya Pradesh has increased by 23 per cent in the past one decade, while the consumption of beer has gone up by 14 per cent, Madhya Pradesh excise minister Jagdish Devda said in the state assembly. He submitted a written reply in the House on Tuesday to a question raised by Congress legislator Jitu Patwari, who had asked about the status of liquor consumption in Madhya Pradesh between 2010-11 and 2020-21. In the reply, the minister stated that the annual intake of IMFL rose to 420.65 lakh proof litres in 2020-21, registering an increase of 23.05 per cent, as compared to 341.86 lakh proof litres in 2010-11. The intake of country liquor during this period (decade) went up by 8.52 per cent to 899.16 lakh proof litres from 828.59 lakh proof litres in 2010-11, he said. Also, the consumption of beer in the state went up by 14.19 per cent to 840.77 lakh bulk litres in 2020-21 from 736.27 lakh bulk litres in 2010-11, the minister informed. During the decade, the highest consumption of country liquor was recorded in 2015-16 at 1,170.52 lakh proof litres, he said in the reply. The highest intake of IMFL was recorded in 2019-20, when 583.48 lakh proof litres were sold. In the same year, the beer intake was the highest at 1,099.67 lakh bulk litres during this decade, he added. The minister also informed that there was no liquor ban proposal pending before the state government.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bhopal-news/indian-made-foreign-liquor-consumption-in-mp-up-by-23-in-one-decade-govt-101640158445474.html
22-12-2021||Mumbai||Omicron scare: Maharashtra govt may close schools if cases rise, says education minister||With cases of Omicron (B.1.1.529) variant on the rise, Maharashtra school education minister Varsha Gaikwad said on Wednesday that schools in the state may be shut down if the number of patients in the state, infected with the latest strain, continue to increase.Schools in Maharashtra reopened fully only on December 1.Also Read | Maharashtra Schools Reopening: Classes 1 to 7 to reopen from December 1“If Omicron cases continue to rise, we may take a call to shut the schools again. We're monitoring the situation,” Gaikwad said, according to news agency ANI.Maharashtra | If Omicron cases continue to rise, we may take a call to shut the schools again. We are monitoring the situation: School Education minister Prof. Varsha Eknath Gaikwad to ANI(file photo) pic.twitter.com/9EDsOuAnw3Physical classes for schools in the western state resumed from the first day of the month for standards 1-7 in the urban areas and 1-4 in the rural areas. This followed resumption of physical lectures, on October 4, for students in classes 8-12 in the urban regions, and classes 4-12 in the rural ones.Maharashtra has, till, now detected at least 65 cases of the B.1.1.529 variant, 11 of which were confirmed on Tuesday. Of the fresh infections, four were found at the Mumbai airport during surveillance screening. The city has the highest number of Omicron cases in the state, at 30, followed by Pimpri-Chinchwad (12) and Pune (10). Also Read | 11 new Omicron cases in state take tally to 65The remaining patients, meanwhile, were found in Satara and Osmanabad (three each), Kalyan-Dombivli (2) and one each in Buldhana, Nagpur, Latur and Vasai-Virar.Nationally, at least 213 cases of the Omicron variant has been reported thus far, the Union health ministry said on Wednesday.  These have been reported from 15 states and Union territories.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/omicron-scare-maharashtra-govt-may-close-schools-says-education-minister-101640153055571.html
22-12-2021||Delhi||Delhi records AQI close to severe category amid dip in mercury||Delhi recorded an Air Quality Index (AQI) of 399 (very poor) at 8am on Wednesday as the mercury plunged to 4.2 degrees Celsius. The AQI is classified as “severe” when it crosses the 400-mark. The city recorded “severe” air quality on Tuesday for the first time since December 2.Delhi’s air quality is expected to remain in a similar range for the next three days because of calm winds. There will be a slight improvement as the temperatures begin to rise later this week. Very calm winds, low boundary layer height, and very low temperatures are leading to such a condition and this will continue, said the System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting And Research.Safdarjung, Delhi’s base station, recorded a minimum temperature of 4.4 degrees Celsius on Wednesday morning, while it was 4.2 degrees at the Lodhi Road station, compared to 4 degrees Celsius on Tuesday, as the cold wave continued.Also Read: Rainfall expected in parts of northwest India; minimum temperatures may riseA cold wave is declared when the minimum temperature is 4.5 degrees or more below the normal, or it falls to 4 degrees or lower in an area.The India Meteorological Department (IMD) said the cold wave conditions will abate in the region from Wednesday onwards and the mercury is expected to rise to around 6-7 degrees Celsius by Thursday because of an active western disturbance.RK Jenamani, an IMD scientist, said while the western disturbance will be feeble, it will still lead to a cloudy day and increase in both day and night time temperatures by around 2 degrees.The IMD has said another western disturbance will impact Delhi from Friday onwards. A third western disturbance is likely to later bring rain to Delhi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-records-aqi-close-to-severe-category-amid-dip-in-mercury-101640150143153.html
22-12-2021||Ranchi||Jharkhand to issue caste certificates in schools, says Hemant Soren||RANCHI: The Jharkhand government will soon hold camps in all schools to issue caste certificates to students across all classes as part of a special drive, chief minster Hemant Soren said on Tuesday.“The government has taken cognisance of the problems arising in issuance of caste certificates. After December 29, a special drive will be conducted to issue caste certificates to students across private and public schools. Going beyond this, the government will soon also start issuing caste certificate at birth itself,” Soren told the Jharkhand assembly on Tuesday. He was responding to complaints that people including tribal groups and backward groups such as Lohar, Lohra and Baraik are facing problem in getting caste certificate.“This government claims to be well wisher of tribals. However, these groups are facing problem in even getting a caste certificate issued. On the other hand, minority (religious) groups are allowed to claim their entitlements just by providing self-declared documents. I have nothing against the community, but there are chances that in guise of minority, even Bangladeshi infiltrators could get the benefits,” said former minister and BJP legislator Neelkanth Singh Munda.The chief minister objected to the BJP lawmaker bringing in religion of people into this. “The opposition BJP always tries to disturb peace. Everyone knows that our government works for all citizens of the state including tribals, dalits and minorities. We too are not working for Bangladeshis or Pakistanis but for 3.25 crore people of Jharkhand,” Soren said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ranchi-news/jharkhand-to-issue-caste-certificates-in-schools-says-hemant-soren-101640146302609.html
22-12-2021||Bangalore||Earthquake strikes near Bengaluru, normal life not affected||A 3.3-magnitude earthquake struck near Bengaluru on Wednesday morning, the National Centre for Seismology (NCS) reported on Twitter. Normal life was not affected by the quake.The NCS said on Twitter that the quake struck at 7:14am, at a depth of 23 kilometres.Earthquake of Magnitude:3.3, Occurred on 22-12-2021, 07:14:32 IST, Lat: 13.55 & Long: 77.76, Depth: 23 Km ,Location: 66km NNE of Bengaluru, Karnataka, India for more information download the BhooKamp App https://t.co/iax6vbE3wO pic.twitter.com/irvoaQmaMFThe epicentre was reported to be 66 kilometres away from the Karnataka capital. A few months ago, several districts in Karnataka recorded earthquakes, which were later believed to be caused by a phenomenon called hydro-seismicity. The quakes were recorded in Karnataka’s Bidar, Kalaburagi and Vijayapura districts. Some of them had a magnitude of 4.0.A study by National Geophysical Research Institute (NGRI), commissioner by Karnataka State Disaster Management Authority (KSDMA), revealed in October that the tremors recorded in the northern part of the state normally occur post monsoon.At least 15 instances of earthquakes and tremors were recorded in the state till October this year.The similar phenomenon related to the occurrence of micro tremors originating from shallow depths associated with subterranean sounds was experienced in the past during 2006-2009 at Hasargundgi, Yelakapalli, Yempalli, Chimanchod of Chincholi Taluk, Kalaburgi District.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/earthquake-strikes-near-bengaluru-normal-life-not-affected-101640145476786.html
22-12-2021||Patna||Bihar: BJP leader expelled over provocative statement targeting former CM Manjhi||MADHUBANI: Bharatiya Janta Party (BJP) leader Gajendra Jha was on Tuesday expelled from the party a day after he issued a controversial statement targeting former Bihar chief minister Jitan Ram Manjhi for having allegedly made disparaging remarks about priests.The BJP’s Madhubani district unit chief Shankar Jha wrote to Gajendra Jha about the party’s decision to oust him. “Your unbecoming statement has damaged the party. You are hereby expelled from the party with immediate effect,” Shankar Jha wrote.Gajendra Jha has also been asked to submit an explanation of his remarks to the district office of the BJP in a fortnight’s time.The expulsion from the party came after Gajendra Jha had publicly said he will present a cash reward of ₹11 lakh to anyone who chops off former CM Manjhi’s tongue.Incidentally, Manjhi’s Hindustan Awami Morcha (HAM) is part of Bihar’s ruling National Democratic Alliance that includes the BJP.On December 18, while addressing an event of the Dalit community in Patna, Manjhi had allegedly made disparaging remarks about priests, which apparently sparked Gajendra Jha’s provocative statement.Manjhi, however, had later retracted his comments about priests, insisting that he didn’t target the Brahmin community as critics alleged.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/bihar-bjp-leader-expelled-over-provocative-statement-targeting-former-cm-manjhi-101640143302096.html
22-12-2021||Bangalore||Karnataka govt wants to damage certain sections: HD Kumaraswamy on anti-conversion bill||Former Karnataka chief minister HD Kumaraswamy said that his Janata Dal (Secular) would oppose the controversial anti-conversion bill brought in by the state government.Addressing the reporters in Belagavi, Kumaraswamy said on Tuesday that the Karnataka government wants to damage certain sections by bringing in the bill.“We are going to oppose the anti-conversion bill. By presenting this bill in the House, it will not be useful to anybody. According to me, the government's responsibility is to look after the down-trodden people,” Kumaraswamy said, according to news agency ANI.The former chief minister also pointed out that the bill will not be helpful for anybody.On Tuesday, the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)-led Karnataka government tabled the 'Karnataka Protection of Right to Freedom of Religion Bill, 2021' in the ongoing winter session of the state assembly, prompting strong criticism from the opposition Congress party.The bill was tabled by home minister Araga Jnanendra after permission from the speaker. It will be taken up for discussion on Wednesday.Also Read| Karnataka: DK Shivakumar tears copy of anti-conversion bill, Cong walks outThe Congress staged a walkout from the assembly in opposition and its state unit chief DK Shivakumar even tore a copy of the bill.Before the Congress' walkout, the leader of opposition in the assembly Siddaramaiah said that the party would not allow such a draconian law in this house.The anti-conversion bill provides for the protection of the right to freedom of religion and prohibition of unlawful conversion from one religion to another by misrepresentation, force, undue influence, coercion, allurement or by any fraudulent means. The violators will face up to 3-10 years of jail time and a fine of ₹1,00,000.The bill was first proposed during the monsoon session of the assembly in September.It comes at a time of a series of attacks against the Christian community across Karnataka for its alleged involvement in conversions.The ruling BJP has alleged that mass conversions have been taking place by force across the state, which was a threat to the country's culture, Hindustan Times reported on Tuesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/state-govt-wants-to-damage-certain-sections-kumaraswamy-on-anti-conversion-bill-101640137405809.html
22-12-2021||Chandigarh||Congress will make Chandigarh safe for women: Netta D’Souza||Netta D’Souza, acting president of the All India Mahila Congress, on Tuesday called upon women in Chandigarh to put the city in safe hands by voting for Congress in the upcoming municipal corporation elections.While addressing a press conference at Congress Bhawan in Sector 35, she said that Chandigarh, which used to be known for its beautiful landscape and learned populace, is now leading the country in crime against women. “As per National Crime Record Bureau (NCRB) data, the crime rate against women has gone up disturbingly in recent years, with NCRB-2020 report stating that Chandigarh has the highest number of rape cases in the country, with 75% victims being minors,” she said.She also said that a victory for Congress will lead to reduction in taxes. “Residents of the city are reeling under heavy burden of taxes, with water taxes having increased three-fold. After winning the MC polls, the party will provide relief of about ₹150 crore.”Subhash Chawla, president of Chandigarh Congress, said that if Congress wins MC elections, the party will give 100% relief in water tariff and property tax charged from them during the entire duration of lockdown. “The relief applies to all sections of Chandigarh residents. The amount charged during the lockdown shall be adjusted in the next bill and a resolution to this effect shall be passed in the very first meeting of the next corporation,” he said.Selja slams BJP for ‘pro-rich policies’“Congress has always prioritised interests and welfare of the people, especially the lower strata of the society. It was the Congress party who bestowed ownership rights to thousands of people living in slum areas, as a result of which they are living in safe and beautiful houses in Chandigarh,” Himachal Pradesh Congress committee chief Kumari Selja said on Tuesday.Selja was canvassing for Congress candidate of ward number 16, Sonia, at a rally in Sector 25, ahead of the upcoming municipal corporation elections on December 24.Slamming the BJP for unleashing high inflation on the people of the country, she said that the pro-rich policies of the central government have ruined the economy. “BJP is on its mission to sell the country to big business houses, but Congress will not allow it and keep fighting for rights of the common people. Residents should elect a young leader like Sonia, who has passion and dedication to serve residents,” She added.Congress alleges model code of conduct violations by BJP, AAPThe Chandigarh Congress has filed a written complaint to the State Election Commission, alleging violation of the model code of conduct by the BJP and the AAP.The complaint filed by Congress spokesperson Rajesh Sharma said despite clear directions to stop election campaigning by 5pm on Tuesday, banners and posters seeking votes in favour of the respective political parties were still in place at many public toilets in markets and cycle stands, a clear violation of the model code of conduct.The complaint requested that such illegal boards or materials be immediately removed, the expenses borne on such publicity material be added in the election expenses of the individual candidates and appropriate criminal legal action be taken.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/congress-will-make-chandigarh-safe-for-women-netta-dsouza-101640122056735.html
22-12-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh MC elections: BJP leaders confident of regaining all 35 seats||On the last day of campaigning for the Chandigarh municipal corporation elections, Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leaders on Tuesday announced that they are confident of retaining power this year too.While addressing a press conference, state president Arun Sood, said, “The people of Chandigarh only want development. However, Congress mayors and MPs indulged in scams and scandals during their tenures.”Sood added that a total of 12 star campaigners, through their 56 public rallies, canvassed for the party candidates. Apart from Congress councillor Sheela Phool Singh, an Akali Dal candidate and many top leaders hailing from different parties joined the BJP during this campaign, he added.Former BJP president and co-in charge of Himachal Pradesh, Sanjay Tandon said, “BJP is fighting this election with utmost seriousness, with between 700-800 indoor meetings being held involving candidates, supporters and party high command. With the PM at the apex and MP also belonging to the Saffron Party, “triple engine” governance will further boost the developmental projects in Chandigarh after BJP comes into power again.”Speaking on the occasion, mayor Ravikant Sharma said that almost all candidates of BJP have issued manifestos of their respective wards. “BJP has financially strengthened the municipal corporation during his tenure”, he said, while claiming they will win all 35 seats.Also present on the occasion, former MP and additional solicitor general Satya Pal Jain, said that during this election, some people have falsely campaigned to hand over Chandigarh to Punjab. Jain added that these schemes have been made during the tenure of Congress. BJP has increased the pride of Chandigarh by giving it a different identity by implementing development schemes, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-mc-elections-bjp-leaders-confident-of-regaining-all-35-seats-101640121815805.html
22-12-2021||Chandigarh||U-16 tennis championship: Krish ousts Savtvik to enter pre-quarterfinals||Krish Ajay Tyagi outplayed Savtvik Singla 6-1,6-0 while Ronit Gupta beat Arnav Yadav 4-6,6-3,6-4 on Day 1 of the AITA National Ranking Championship for U-16 at the Roots Tennis Academy on Tuesday. In other matches, Agnivesh Bharadwaj defeated Yasharth Chadha 6-0,6-1; Akshat Dhull beat Deepam Malik 1-6,7-5,6-2 and Kartikeya Tyagi pipped Keshav Dangi 6-7, 6-3,7-5 to enter pre-quarterfinals.Under 16 second round resultsBoys: Krish Ajay Tyagi [KA] bt Savtvik Singla [CH] 6-1,6-0, Ronit Gupta [DL] bt Arnav Yadav [UK] 4-6,6-3,6-4, Ekamjeet Singh [PB] bt Harwin Singh [PB] 6-3,6-2, Hitesh Chauhan (3) [PB) Gurbaaz singh [PB] 6-1,6-0, Arjun Rathi [HR] bt Aryan Chauhan [HR] 3-6,6-2,6-4, Agnivesh Bharadwaj [HR] bt Yasharth Chadha [UP] 6-0,6-1, Akshat Dhull [HR) bt Deepam Malik [DL] 1-6,7-5,6-2, Kartikeya Tyagi [UP] bt Keshav Dangi [CH] 6-7, 6-3,7-5, Siddhant Kishore sharma [HR] bt Aryan Jolly [HR] 6-1,6-0, Tejas Ahuja [HR] bt Devansh Parajuli [PB] 6-1,6-1, Satvik Sharma [Dl] bt Armaan Walia [PB] 6-1,6-2, Fateh singh [HR] bt Svarmanyu singh [MH] 7-5,6-2, Anahat Mudgil [DL] bt Rohin Premchandani [CG] 6-3,6-1, Vansh Nandal (1) [HR] bt Hiren Malik [HR] 6-1,6-3;||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/u16-tennis-championship-krish-ousts-savtvik-to-enter-prequarterfinals-101640121454163.html
22-12-2021||Chandigarh||Untreated sewage in N-Choe: PPCB to summon GMADA for not replying to notice||Acting on GMADA’s failure to reply to a show-cause notice over discharge of untreated sewage into the N-Choe passing through IT City, near Airport Road, the Punjab Pollution Control Board (PPCB) has decided to issue a summons to the development authority.In October this year, the pollution board had issued a notice to GMADA, asking them to file a reply within two weeks. The notice was issued under Section 25/26 of the Water (Prevention and Control of Pollution) Act, under which no industry, operator process or any treatment and disposal system can be established without the previous consent of the state pollution board, and no industry or process can discharge sewage or trade effluent into a stream, well, sewer or land in excess of the standards.Violation of any order under the Water Act, for which no penalty has been provided elsewhere in its framework, is punishable with imprisonment up to three months with/or fine of up to ₹10,000. “As per our records, GMADA never applied for a no-objection certificate (NOC) or even PPCB’s consent before setting up IT City. They only have environment clearance for the project,” said Kuldeep Singh, executive engineer, PPCB. PPCB superintending engineer Paramjeet Singh said, “We will be summoning GMADA as they failed to file a reply to our notice. The file for the summoning date is with the chairman for approval.” When contacted, GMADA’s executive engineer Ranjiv Mankatalasaid, “I need to check the record for whether we filed a reply or not. Also, work on the STP will start soon.”In September, Hindustan Times had highlighted how despite the directions of the Union ministry of environment, forest and climate change, GMADA had not constructed two sewage treatment plants (STPs) with 10 million litres per day (MLD) capacity. As a result, untreated sewage is being discharged into the N-Choe passing through IT City. In 2019, the development authority had built a portable STP of 500 KLD, but it has been lying defunct since then.A seasonal stream, N-Choe originates in the north of Chandigarh and runs across the city, before meeting the Jagatpura drain at Manauli village in Mohali. The water finally drains into Ghaggar river.Residents allege that untreated sewage in the water is leading to harmful waterborne pathogens and bacteria, which pose high risk to human and animal health. IT City is spread over 1,722 acres across Sectors 66B, 82A, 83A and 101A near the Airport Road, and has major IT companies, industrial and commercial units, residential areas and a private school, besides campuses of two major private universities. The first housing scheme in IT City was launched in February 2014 with 325 residential plots, the second scheme in July 2016 with 750 plots, and the last scheme in April 2018.
22-12-2021||Chandigarh||MC polls: Help bring back Chandigarh’s lost glory, Kanhaiya appeals to voters||Continuing his campaign for the party candidates for the second day, Congress leader Kanhaiya Kumar on Tuesday appealed to residents to vote for the Congress and bring back the lost glory of Chandigarh.While addressing poll rallies in the city, Kumar lambasted the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) for trying to undermine the constitutional values and the spirit of democracy in the country. He said, “The only expertise the BJP has is to divide the people of the country on various grounds and divert the attention of the people from real issues.”He said the poor, already society’s most vulnerable section, were being harmed further by the pro-rich policies of the NDA government. “The high rate of inflation in the country is a direct consequence of the policies of the BJP. Today the inflation is rising at more than 14%. Such high inflation was not seen by the country in the last 30 years,” he said.While campaigning on the Panjab University (PU) campus for party candidate Sachin Galav, Kumar appealed to residents and stakeholders of the university to support the young candidates of the party.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/mcpollshelp-bring-back-chandigarh-s-lost-glory-kanhaiya-appeals-to-voters-101640121035333.html
22-12-2021||Chandigarh||Mohali: Vigilance arrests PSPCL JE, aide for taking ₹90,000 bribe||The Punjab Vigilance Bureau on Monday arrested a junior engineer (JE) of the Punjab State Power Corporation Limited and his aide for accepting ₹90,000 bribe from a Dera Bassi resident.The accused, Malkiat Singh, a JE posted in the Dera Bassi area, and his aide, Pardeep Kumar, were arrested on the complaint of Kushalpal Singh, a resident of Khelan village, Dera Bassi.Deputy superintendent of police (DSP), Vigilance, Ajay Kumar said Kushalpal ran a flour mill in Handesra area in Dera Bassi, where Malkiat conducted a check and found a loose wire. Accusing Kushaldeep of electricity theft, he demanded ₹3 lakh to settle the matter.Pardeep collected ₹2 lakh of the amount on behalf the JE, following which Kushalpal lodged a complaint with the Vigilance Bureau.On Monday, Pardeep met the complainant again to collect the final instalment of ₹1 lakh. As Kushalpal handed him ₹90,000, a vigilance team arrested him red-handed. On his disclosure, Malkiat was also arrested.Both were booked under the Prevention of Corruption Act and produced before a court, that sent them to two-day police remand.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/mohalivigilance-arrests-pspcl-je-aide-for-taking-90-000-bribe-101640121034055.html
22-12-2021||Chandigarh||Doctor couple booked for using restricted drug at Zirakpur hospital||Giving restricted tramadol injections to dengue and Covid-19 patients has landed a Zirakpur-based doctor couple in trouble.Police have booked Dr Vinod Barwal and Dr Pragati Barwal under Sections 20, 61 and 85 of the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act, following a report by Dera Bassi sub-divisional magistrate (SDM) Kuldeep Bawa.On October 14, the district administration, health department and police had conducted a surprise check at the couple’s Swastik Hospital on Ghazipur Road, Zirakpur, and sealed it after finding major irregularities. During the raid they found an attendant treating patients as a qualified doctor. The teams also found restricted tramadol injections being used to treat Covid and dengue patients. Following these discoveries, the administration recommended an FIR against the hospital management and necessary action to the Mohali civil surgeon.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/doctor-couple-booked-for-using-restricted-drug-at-zirakpur-hospital-101640120980067.html
22-12-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh MC polls: Curtains on campaigning, stage set for three-cornered contest||The pulsating campaign for the 2021 Chandigarh municipal corporation elections ended on Tuesday, making way for the 72-hour “silence period”, which will end at 5pm on December 24.Voting is scheduled for December 24 and results will be out on December 27. The State Election Commission will complete the election process by December 30.In a departure from previously established two-party battle between the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and the Congress, Chandigarh is set to see a three-cornered contest, with the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) also entering the fray from all 35 wards. While the AAP was first off the blocks by announcing a slew of “guarantees”, the BJP closely followed up with the release of its “achievements” list. The Congress, which entered the campaign mode rather slowly, made good of the lost ground quickly as the canvassing window neared its end.The last day saw the candidates taking out “padyatras” and door-to-door campaigning, though a few also organised public rallies.With no major untoward incident or grave personal mudslinging, the one-month campaign went off peacefully.But despite the election commission setting strict Covid guidelines in place, most candidates flouted the safety protocols unabashedly.Even in the backdrop of rising Covid cases in the city, political parties continued to gather large crowds as they went for show of strength over public health.Issues-based campaignThe BJP, striving to retain the MC House majority, made “development” and its “achievements” in the last six years as its main campaign planks. The grand old party, having lost three successive elections to the BJP, based its campaign on anti-incumbency factors, stressing how the saffron party “failed” the City Beautiful.Meanwhile, the AAP, after getting a drubbing in the 2019 Lok Sabha elections and contesting its first MC polls in Chandigarh, centered its campaign around the “Delhi Model”.The bluntest attack on the ruling party came on the issue of the city slipping sharply in the Swachh Survekshan rankings. Both the Congress and the AAP targeted the BJP for not resolving the issue of Dadumajra dumping ground, poor running of solid waste processing plant and ill-managed door-to-door garbage collection in the city. In turn, the BJP blamed the Congress for the city’s garbage woes, particularly, the dysfunctional garbage processing plant. It also questioned AAP’s track record in cleaning up Delhi’s garbage mounds.General inflation, hike in water tariff and “high” garbage collection charges were other issues that opposition parties prominently raised.On Congress’s poll promise of “no new taxes”, the BJP countered stating that “such financial indiscipline by the Congress during its multiple terms” led to MC financial issues and forced it to hike some levies. The AAP was attacked on the freebies it announced. Both the Congress and the BJP dismissed these as either unworkable or unsubstantial. For instance, on AAP’s guarantee of “free water supply up to 20,000 litres per month”, the parties contended that this cost only around ₹40 per bill cycle in the city. “In Delhi after the free slab, the next slab is ₹24 per kilo litre,” claimed leaders of both the parties.After AAP supremo Arvind Kejriwal’s rally, Congress and BJP’s attack on the “Delhi Model” and “guarantees” became shriller.Big guns for big pushAll three parties roped in “star campaigners” during the last one month.AAP’s campaign was kick-started with Delhi deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia’s interaction with city residents and peaked with Kejriwal’s public rally in Sector 43. Party’s Punjab chief and MP Bhagwant Mann, Rajya Sabha MP Sanjay Singh and eight party MLAs also campaigned for it.Congress’s star campaigners included Kanhaiya Kumar, Bhupinder Singh Hooda, Kumari Selja and Randeep Singh Surjewala. Manpreet Badal, Raj Kumar Verka and Mohinder Singh Kaypee were party’s prominent Punjab faces who pushed its campaign in the city. Delhi’s Alka Lamba and Himachal Pradesh’s Rajinder Rana also played key roles in campaigning.Twelve star campaigners through their 56 public rallies canvassed for the BJP candidates, in addition to door-to-door campaigns. Union ministers, including Som Prakash, Piyush Goyal, Ajay Bhatt, Nityanand Rai and Anurag Thakur held multiple public rallies. Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar, Himachal chief minister Jai Ram Thakur and Delhi MP Manoj Tiwari were also in the city to back the saffron fold’s candidates.
22-12-2021||Chandigarh||At 188, Chandigarh tricity’s active cases highest since July||With 19 fresh Covid-19 cases on Tuesday, tricity’s active cases rose to 188, highest since July 13.As many as 104 of these infected patients are in Chandigarh alone, while in Mohali and Panchkula, 42 people each are recuperating. At nine, Chandigarh was also the biggest contributor to Tuesday’s case tally of 19. As many as eight patients tested positive in Panchkula and two in Mohali.However, no Covid-related fatality was reported in the tricity on Tuesday after two deaths on Monday.Mohali’s both cases came from Kharar. Chandigarh’s infections were reported from Sectors 19, 45 and 63, Dadumajra, Dhanas, Maloya and Manimajra.With this, Chandigarh’s caseload has climbed to 65,726, which includes 64,544 recoveries and 1,078 deaths.Mohali has recorded 69,069 cases till date, among which 67,953 patients have recovered and 1,074 have died. Panchkula has logged 30,913 cases so far, including 30,490 recoveries and 381 deaths.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/at-188-chandigarh-tricity-s-active-cases-highest-since-july-101640120976541.html
22-12-2021||Chandigarh||Respite for Chandigarh as cold wave subsides||After reeling under cold wave for two days, the city got some respite on Tuesday with both the day and night temperature going up.The maximum temperature of the city rose from 18.9°C on Monday to 22.4°C on Tuesday, going 1.3°C above normal.The minimum temperature also increased from 3.3°C to 5.7°C. However, it was still 1.1 degrees below normal.According to the India Meteorological Department (IMD), gradual rise of 3-5 degrees in the temperature is expected over the next five days. A cold wave is declared in the plains when the minimum temperature goes below 4°C. It is also declared when the minimum temperature is 10°C or below and also 4.5 notches lesser than the season’s normal for two consecutive days.Fog on the cardsWhile two western disturbances will affect northern Punjab one after the other from Wednesday evening onwards, rain is unlikely in Chandigarh. But, they may bring along moderate to dense fog in the early morning hours between December 23 and 26.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/respite-for-chandigarh-as-cold-wave-subsides-101640120975309.html
22-12-2021||Chandigarh||Mohali: Truckers demanding revival of unions gherao former Punjab CM||Members of the All-India Truck Ekta Union, who have been protesting since December 6 over their demand for revival of truck unions, gheroed former chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh for almost 45 minutes at Chhat light point on Airport Road on Tuesday. Captain, who was coming from the Patiala side, got out of of his car and assured them that the unions will be revived after he comes into power following the assembly polls. Union district vice-president Amandeep Singh, said, “After the 2017 assembly elections, all truck unions in the state were dissolved by Amarinder Singh-led Congress government. As Charanjit Singh Channi is at the helm now, we demand that he should revive them. We also demand that transportion rates be increased, as truck operators are suffering from an economic downturn.” Addressing mediapersons here, leaders of the union including Sukhwinder Singh Brar, Amritpal Singh Kaleke, Amandeep Singh Gill and Gurinderpal Singh said that the Punjab government should formulate a transportation policy to revive the truck unions. They said that the transportation of wheat and paddy should be given directly to the truck unions instead of contractors. Also, truck operators are forced to overload by contractors, which is in violation of the law, they added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/mohali-truckers-demanding-revival-of-unions-gherao-former-punjab-cm-101640120974051.html
22-12-2021||Chandigarh||PU yet to grant extension of affiliation to colleges||Amid delays caused by the pandemic, Panjab University (PU) is yet to grant extension of affiliation to colleges for 2021-22 academic session, with almost half of the session already over.Although inspections have been conducted by the varsity’s committees at around 60 affiliated colleges this year, the matter is yet to be taken up for approval. PU has more than 190 affiliated colleges and nearly half of them are granted temporary affiliation every year. Usually, the inspection committees visit the colleges in April and May, following which reports are submitted.The reports, which may include the discrepancies pointed out by the committees and the compliance reports of the colleges, are taken up by the affiliation committee. The committee is constituted by the syndicate and in absence of the syndicate, it hasn’t been formed so far. Usually, the extension of affiliation is granted till September.The then syndicate in its meeting in May last year, had resolved that since physical inspections were not possible during the pandemic, information from the colleges will be sought online. Last year, no such visits were conducted. However, due to the improved situation, physical checks were carried out this time.As per sources, the varsity is in the process of forming a committee, which will take up extension of affiliation to the colleges for approval. A proposal in this regard has been submitted by the college branch to the varsity. Anju Suri, who has recently taken charge as the dean college development council (DCDC), said, “The inspections are almost over and they will be taken up by the approval committee shortly. We are doing our doing our best for the fast disposal of all colleges related matters.”
22-12-2021||Chandigarh||Jammu got its rightful share for the first time, says BJP on delimitation proposal||Even as Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leaders have welcomed the draft proposal of the delimitation commission, granting six of the seven additional assembly seats in the union territory to Jammu, leaders of other political parties have termed it as an unbalanced act which will further aggravate divisions among the people of J&K.The commission redrawing poll constituencies in Jammu and Kashmir had on Monday proposed adding six assembly seats in the Jammu region and one in Kashmir. The three-member delimitation commission also proposed reserving nine seats for scheduled tribes and seven for scheduled castes, a first in the Union Territory. The panel presented the draft to five associate members, who belong to the Bharatiya Janata Party and the National Conference, and asked for their responses by December 31. If the proposal is cleared, the total number of poll constituencies will rise from 83 to 90, with 43 in the Jammu region and 47 in Kashmir. 24 seats will be kept aside for Pakistan-occupied Kashmir. In the current state House, Jammu has 37 members and Kashmir has 46.Former J&K deputy chief minister and senior BJP leader Kavinder Gupta said draft proposal of the delimitation commission has done justice with the people of Jammu division. “Our region (Jammu) has more area and population. This is for the first time that people of Jammu have got their due share. The 2011 census was manipulated by those in power; now all wrong things have been set right by the delimitation commission. We are happy with the creation of new seats in the UT.”J&K state Congress president Raman Bhalla said they have asked for the draft of the proposal issued by the delimitation commission. “Only after going through the draft can we express our views. But one thing is clear; this will create divisions within the people of the two provinces. BJP is doing this to just satisfy its ego. Otherwise, there are proper guidelines on how such things should be done.”National Panthers Party chairman Harsh Dev Singh said the delimitation commission is working at the behest of BJP. “They just want to create a misunderstanding between the people of J&K. This delimitation should be done on merit. The aim of the delimitation commission is only to give BJP an opportunity for proxy rule in J&K. The commission should have told all the associate members which seats and regions they are carving out fresh in J&K. So, they (commission) has failed to accomplish anything during these 21 months. They want people to fight with each other so that elections get delayed and the BJP gets to rule J&K through its proxies.”Labha Gandhi, president, West Pakistan Refugee Action Committee, said that delimitation should be done as per the population and census criteria. “People in Kashmir are protesting because they think that by giving more seats to Jammu, the region will have closer seats to Kashmir.” Gandhi said after decades, they got the voting rights and the Commission should reserve some seats for West Pakistan refugees.PAGD spokesman and CPI(M) general secretary, Mohammad Yusuf Tarigami, said on Monday night that a draft recommendation of the Delimitation Commission is divisive, and unacceptable. “It is another step to further disempower Kashmiris politically. It will increase gaps between regions and communities.”He said the constitution of Delimitation Commission under J&K Reorganisation Act-2019 in itself is questionable as the Reorganisation Act has been challenged in the Supreme Court. “The constitution of Delimitation Commission was akin to contempt of the court as how can the government of India do so when the matter is sub-judice.”He said they will continue with their legal and political fight against the arbitrary, unconstitutional and undemocratic decisions of the BJP government.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/jammu-got-its-rightful-share-for-the-first-time-says-bjp-on-delimitation-proposal-101640120614118.html
22-12-2021||Chandigarh||Mohali: Traffic comes to standstill on crucial Kharar highway amid protest for regular jobs||Thousands of commuters were stuck on Tuesday as members of the Anganwadi Employees Union, Punjab, and contractual teachers blocked the Kharar highway while protesting against the Punjab government over their demand for regular jobs.The highway is critically important as it connects Chandigarh and Mohali to parts of Punjab, besides Jammu and Kashmir and Himachal Pradesh. Commuters were left harried as they remained stuck in serpentine queues since morning and even the heavy police force deployed at the spot failed to clear the gridlock. Earlier, the protesters had planned to gherao chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi’s residence in Kharar, but when they were stopped, they blocked the highway.Sanjeev Kumar, who was stuck for over three hours, said, “I am travelling with my family, including my young children. Such protests against the government always lead to harassment for the general public.” The traffic coming from Ropar was diverted towards New Chandigarh (Mullanpur) to Chandigarh; traffic from Ludhiana was diverted from Morinda towards Chunni-Landran-Chandigarh. Traffic coming from Chandigarh was diverted towards Mohali and back to Chandigarh to follow way to Mullanpur Kurali. The protest was still on at the time of filing of this report.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/mohali-traffic-comes-to-standstill-on-crucial-kharar-highway-amid-protest-for-regular-jobs-101640120494428.html
22-12-2021||Chandigarh||104 fresh Covid cases, one death in Jammu and Kashmir||Jammu and Kashmir reported one death and 104 fresh Covid-19 infections on Tuesday, an official health bulletin said. Of the total cases, 78 cases were reported in Kashmir valley and while the Jammu division saw 26 infections and a death. The union territory reported the highest 40 cases in summer capital Srinagar followed by 18 cases in Jammu and 15 in Kupwara. As many as 17 districts saw single digit or zero cases.Srinagar has the highest number of active cases at 492 followed by Jammu and Baramulla districts with 204 and 159 active cases respectively.The number of patients who were cured in the UT was 139 with active positive cases reaching 1,327.The government’s daily health bulletin also said that 64,343 vaccine doses were administered on the day, taking overall doses administered in the UT to 1.772 crore.The overall number of people who have recovered reached 3,34,195, prompting the recovery rate to reach 98.28%.Since the pandemic started, the overall cases in J&K have reached 3,40,036 and the death toll has reached 4,514.Officials said that 46,173 tests were conducted in the past 24 hours in the UT.Jammu district has the highest number of 1,155 fatalities followed by Srinagar with 879 deaths.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/104-fresh-covid-cases-one-death-in-jammu-and-kashmir-101640120014106.html
22-12-2021||Chandigarh||Former Punjab DGP Sumedh Singh Saini gets Delhi court warning after he attends virtual hearing lying on bed||A Delhi court has warned after former Punjab director general of police Sumedh Singh Saini, accused in the alleged abduction of three Ludhiana men in 1994, after he showed up at the virtual hearing, lying on his bed.Taking note of this, special CBI judge Sanjeev Aggarwal cautioned Saini to be careful in future with his demeanour and maintain the decorum of the court, while attending the proceedings through video conferencing.The judge also noted that even though Saini said he was unwell and down with fever, no medical certificate in this regard was given.“Accused no 1 Sumedh Kumar Saini has joined the proceedings through VC. However, it is observed that he has joined the VC proceedings while lying on the bed. On being asked, he submits that he is unwell and is down with fever. However, no medical certificate in this regard has been furnished or filed on record. Accused no 1 is, accordingly, warned to be careful in future with his demeanour and maintain the decorum of the court, while attending the proceedings/court through VC,” the judge said in his order.Saini and three other policemen are accused of kidnapping and murder by the CBI in the 1994 case. On March 15, 1994, Ludhiana-based businessmen Vinod Kumar, his brother-in-law Ashok Kumar and their driver, Mukhtiar Singh, were abducted and illegally detained, allegedly with the involvement of then Ludhiana SSP Saini. Their families believe that the trio was eliminated, though the bodies were never found. The families had claimed that their kin were abducted at Saini’s behest.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/former-punjab-dgp-sumedh-singh-saini-gets-delhi-court-warning-after-he-attends-virtual-hearing-lying-on-bed-101640119834020.html
22-12-2021||Chandigarh||Four JeM associates held in Awantipora||Police on Tuesday claimed to have arrested four militant associates in Awantipora.A police spokesperson said that the four militant associates are linked with Jaish-e-Mohammed (JeM) and incriminating materials, including arms and ammunition, were recovered from their possession.Police identified the accused as Zubair Gul, Adil Fayaz Ganie, Basit Ali, all residents of Samboora and Shahid Nabi l of Konibal Pampore. “Incriminating materials, arms and ammunition, including pistol and hand grenade, were also recovered from their possession,” said the police spokesperson.The spokesperson said that during preliminary investigation, it was revealed that the arrested associates were in touch with JeM commanders and involved in transportation of arms and ammunition.“Besides, they were providing shelter and other logistic support to the active terrorists operating in Samboora and Pampore areas of Awantipora,” the official said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/four-jem-associates-held-in-awantipora-101640119653927.html
22-12-2021||Chandigarh||PAGD dubs delimitation panel’s move as ‘divisive’, plans protest||The Peoples’ Alliance for Gupkar Declaration (PAGD) is set to hold a protest in Srinagar on January 1, against the draft proposal of delimitation commission.PAGD held a meeting at the Jammu residence of NC president Farooq Abdullah on Tuesday to discuss the draft proposal. The meeting was chaired by Farooq Abdullah and attended by PDP president Mehbooba Mufti, CPI (M) general secretary Mohammad Yusuf Tarigami, Awami National Conference vice-president Muzuffar Shah and other political leaders of alliance constituents.Later, the PAGD leadership held a press conference in which they rejected the draft proposal of the delimitation commission and termed the proposal an act to divide people on the basis of religion and groups.“The Alliance leadership wants peace and not confrontation. For the legitimate rights of people, we will be raising our voice peacefully. On January 1, we will be holding peaceful protest in Srinagar against the proposal of delimitation commission which is unacceptable to all of us and all people and all communities,” said PAGD spokesman, Mohammad Yusuf Tarigami who was flanked by top leaders of alliance.“The proposals of delimitation commission, as reported by the press, in our view is divisive and not in the interests of people of Jammu and Kashmir,” said Tarigami. He said several organisations or individuals have challenged the Reorganisation Act in the Supreme Court under which this delimitation Commission was constituted.PAGD spokesman further said that delimitation should have happened along with the entire country, as per fresh census, but the BJP’s plan is to divide people on religion and regional lines.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/pagd-dubs-delimitation-panel-s-move-as-divisive-plans-protest-101640119414361.html
22-12-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab polls: Congress campaign head Jakhar calls meeting of panel in Delhi today||Punjab Congress campaign committee chairman Sunil Jakhar has convened a meeting of the 21-member panel, including state unit president Navjot Singh Sidhu and chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi, in Delhi on Wednesday. Besides Sidhu and Channi, the committee has Punjab affairs in-charge Harish Chaudhary, AICC secretaries Chetan Chauhan, Harshwardhan Sapkal, Gurkirat Kotli and Raminder Awla, Punjab Congress general secretary Pargat Singh and former Punjab Youth Congress chief Amarpreet Singh Lally as members, according to the notification for the meeting. Its other members include MPs Gurjit Singh Aujla, Jasbir Singh Dimpa, Santokh Singh, Manish Tewari, Ravneet Singh Bittu, Amar Singh, Mohammad Sadique, Partap Singh Bajwa, Ambika Soni and Shamsher Singh Dullo as members. The panel members are likely to be assigned districts to monitor and coordinate the election campaign of the party. Also, similar campaign committees in districts are expected to be announced shortly.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-polls-congress-campaign-head-jakhar-calls-meeting-of-panel-in-delhi-today-101640119173950.html
22-12-2021||Chandigarh||Bone chilling Chilai Kalan period starts in Kashmir||Chilai Kalan, Kashmir’s harshest 40-day winter period, started on Tuesday amid predictions of an approaching weather system which may bring snow and mild showers in the coming days.Overcast sky conditions improved night temperatures across the union territory of Jammu and Kashmir and Ladakh with summer capital Srinagar recording -2.8°C on the intervening night of Monday and Tuesday up from -5.8°C on the previous night.“There was a significant improvement in minimum temperatures in both the union territories. Owing to an approaching feeble Western Disturbance, expect gradual rise in minimum temperatures in the coming days,” said director of meteorological department of J&K and Ladakh, Sonam Lotus.Western Disturbance is a weather system or winds blowing from the Mediterranean which brings precipitation.Lotus said fair to partly cloudy conditions can be expected in both UTs and similar conditions are likely to continue till tomorrow. “Due to a feeble Western Disturbance, weather is most likely to remain generally cloudy in both UTs with chances of light snowfall at scattered places of Kashmir, (over higher reaches) Kargil district (Zojila-Drass, Parkachik- Penzila) and over hilly areas of Jammu region during December 23rd and 24th,” said Lotus.The coldest weather observatory was the ski resort of Gulmarg in north Kashmir where mercury plunged to -5°C during the night.In south Kashmir, the mountain resort of Pahalgam recorded a night temperature of -3.7°C.Lotus said a snow spell of greater intensity was most likely during December 26 to 28.He said with the rise in minimum temperatures by 2-3°C in J&K and 4-5°C in Ladakh, the cold wave has abated in both UTs and will remain so till December 28.“Overall, there’s no forecast of any significant weather till 26,” he said.Sub-zero temperatures were recorded in all of the weather stations of Kashmir while Jammu saw higher temperatures. It was -4.5 °C in Konibal, - 3.8°C in Kupwara, and -2.6°C in Qazigund.Jammu’s Banihal and Bhaderwah recorded minimum night temperatures of 2.4°C and 2.6°C respectively.In the union territory of Ladakh, Drass recorded bone chilling -11.1°C while it was -8.2°C in Leh during the night.Kashmir’s winter pans out in three stages starting with the 40-day harsh period of Chillai Kalan which brings most of the snowfall and sub-zero temperatures during the season followed by 20 more days which are less intense (called Chillai Khurd) and then 10 days of mild cold (Chille Bache) in the end.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/bone-chilling-chilai-kalan-period-starts-in-kashmir-101640118814458.html
22-12-2021||Other||SKM should not take a political plunge, says Darshan Pal||Ludhiana With the Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM), the organisation of 32 farm unions, presenting a guarded view on whether it will foray into politics by contesting the Punjab assembly elections, a farm leader associated with it has expressed his reservations against taking the plunge. Krantikari Kisan Union leader Darshan Pal said, “In my personal opinion, the SKM should not take a plunge into politics as it would be injustice with the sentiments of farmers who supported the agitation for over a year.” Pal and Balbir Rajewal, among others, were honoured by students and employees of the Punjab Agricultural University (PAU) in the university campus on Tuesday.Pal added, “Each farm leader and union has the right to take the path of their choice, but in my opinion, the SKM should not take a plunge into politics. The farmer across the country have faith in SKM that the Morcha will fight for betterment of the farming in the country as there are many other issues including debt waiver etc. Also, the agitation against the Union government has not ended, but has only been suspended. If the SKM leaders got involved in politics, then it will be injustice with the farmers.”Pal also thanked the students and faculty of PAU for imparting them the skill needed to find out the flaws in the now revoked farm laws. During his visit to the city on Monday, Rajewal had stated that SKM has not yet taken any decision regarding participation in politics.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/skmshould-not-take-a-political-plunge-says-darshan-pal-101640118753887.html
22-12-2021||Chandigarh||BJP policies are always anti-farmer, Himachal Congress president Kuldeep Rathore||Himachal Pradesh Congress president Kuldeep Singh Rathore on Tuesday slammed the state BJP government for being indifferent towards the farmers, who were facing problem due to unavailability of insecticides, fungicides and fertilisers.He was speaking while leading Jan-Jagaran march against the rising inflation in Kumarsain of Theog assembly segment.Terming the state and central governments “anti-farmer and anti-horticulturist”, Rathore said that the BJP regime has failed on every front.“It has failed to control the rising inflation and unemployment,” he said, adding that BJP government’s policies are always anti-farmer.He said that the Modi-led centre government was selling off big enterprises of the country when lakhs of people are employed. “It is trying to hand over the country’s economy to a handful of PM’s crony friends,” said Rathore.He said the country is not safe today and the control is slowly going into the hands of the capitalists.Rathore called upon the people to unite and come forward against the anti-people policies of the BJP. He said the main objective of Congress’ Jan Chetna Yatra is also to make people aware of these anti-people policies of BJP.Taking a dig at the Jai Ram Thakur-led state government, Rathore said that time was drawing closer when the people of the state will throw hopeless regime out of power in next assembly elections.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/bjp-policies-are-always-anti-farmer-himachal-congress-president-kuldeep-rathore-101640118213656.html
22-12-2021||Gurugram||Auto driver tries to ‘kidnap’ woman in Gurugram’s Sector 22||An autorickshaw driver allegedly tried to ‘kidnap’ a woman, who was on her way home from the Sector 22 market on Sunday, forcing the woman to jump off the vehicle, which led to a minor injury, police said. The incident came to light after the woman, a resident of Sector 22, took to Twitter on Monday to explain her ordeal. Instead of driving the woman home, the auto driver allegedly drove in another direction and paid no heed to her requests, said the woman in the her tweet. After sharing her horrific experience on social media, Gurugram police took notice and approached her. Police said the woman, a communication specialist, took an auto from the auto stand of Sector 22 market around 12.20pm on Sunday for her home, which was just seven minutes away from the market. “I told the auto driver that I will pay through digital platform as I don’t have cash and looking at his setup which looked like he drives for cab aggregator, I thought he will be pretty much okay with that. He agreed and I sat in the auto. He was listening to devotional music at a reasonable volume,” said the woman in her tweet. After reaching the T-point from where the auto was supposed to take a right to reach the woman’s residence, the auto driver took left and started going in the opposite direction. “I asked him why he is taking a left. He didn’t listen, instead he started shouting,” she tweeted. The auto driver allegedly ignored her request and kept on blurting religious names. The woman hit the auto driver several times on his shoulder but he continued to drive. “The only thought that came to my mind was to jump out. The speed was between 35-40 km/Ph before he sped up, jumping out was the only option. I thought broken bones are better than getting lost. And I jumped out of the moving auto. I don’t know how I got that courage,” she said. After jumping from the auto, the woman started walking towards her home and kept on looking back to check if the auto driver was following her. She boarded an e-rickshaw on the way and reached her home safely. She was not able to note down the registration number of the auto. “I was in a different zone at the time of the incident and not able to note down the registration number,” she said. The woman tweeted about the incident on Twitter, where people reacted and asked her to approach police. She visited Palam Vihar police station on Tuesday. Meanwhile, police had approached her after coming across her tweet. “Visited Palam Vihar police station. Police assured me to trace the person,” she said adding that she hopes police will track the suspect. The woman has filed a complaint but refused to file an FIR and requested police to counsel the suspected auto driver. Inspector Jitender Yadav, station house officer (SHO) of Palam Vihar police station, said they have approached the woman and recorded her statement. “We are scanning the CCTV footage of the area to track the auto driver,” said the SHO.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/auto-driver-tries-to-kidnap-woman-in-gurugram-s-sector-22-101640118034954.html
22-12-2021||Other||Govt college guest faculty start sit-in outside Pargat’s residence||Patiala Fearing job loss, hundreds of guest faculty, working as assistant professors in government colleges across Punjab, have intensified their protest against the state government by camping outside the residence of higher education minister Pargat Singh in Jalandhar. The teachers have been on strike for the past 49 days, after the government started recruitment process of assistant professors on a regular basis. Harminder Singh, president, Punjab Guest Faculty Assistant Professors’ Association, said, “The Punjab government is not serious about their demands. It is just wasting time by making lame assurances that our demand of regularisation is under consideration.”“In case, the government fails to fulfil our demand, we are going to launch door-to-door campaign against the Congress, asking people not to vote for them in upcoming assembly elections,” he said, adding that they had not even been allowed to pitch up tents for the protest, citing security reasons. “We have been left to brave the chilly weather,” he claimed. The state has 1,873 sanctioned posts of lecturers, of which 1,292 are vacant. Government colleges have 581 regular lecturers only. To deal with staff shortage, 882 guest faculty members and 251 part-time lecturers have been providing their services for nearly 20 years.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/govt-college-guest-faculty-start-sit-in-outside-pargat-s-residence-101640118033773.html
22-12-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab: How BoI built its case for FIR against Akali leader Majithia||The Bureau of Investigation (BoI) built the case against former Shiromani Akali Dal minister Bikram Singh Majithia keeping as base the report prepared by ADGP Harpreet Singh Sidhu, chief of the special task force (STF) against drugs. The FIR was finally registered on the directions of Punjab DGP Sidharth Chattopadhyaya, after getting the backing of the advocate general’s opinion on December 1.The report by the STF chief which till now was in “sealed cover” has been made part of the FIR and is officially in public domain now. Earlier, there was confusion whether the government could act on it as the probe was done on the directions of Punjab and Haryana high court.The report reveals that while analysing the record given by the enforcement directorate, the STF chief had identified four issues: Whether Majithia had an association with drug accused Satpreet Satta, Maninder Singh Bittu Aulakh, Parminder Singh Pindi and Jagjit Chahal? Whether Satta, Chahal, Aulakh, Pindi and Laddi were involved in drug trade? Whether Majithia played a role in supply of pseudoephedrine to Satta and others? Whether there are any links regarding monetary transaction between Majithia and others?Association with SattaThe STF chief’s report says that as Majithia told the ED that Satta may have stayed with him a few times, the allegations of providing vehicles and security to Satta and Satta’s involvement in Majithia’s elections are believable. “On this, the report has recommended that Pindi and Laddi be questioned by the investigating agency,” the report said. Involvement in drug tradeOn involvement of Satta, Pindi, Laddi, Aulakh, and Chahal in the drug trade, the STF chief said as per the statements recorded by the ED, it is clear that all are allegedly involved in offences relating to smuggling of drugs and money laundering related to profits from drugs. Supply of pseudoephedrineOn allegations of Majithia’s role in supply of pseudoephedrine to Satta and others, the report says: “Analysing all statements (by Chahal and Aulakh), it is evident that Majithia had a role in facilitating supply of pseudoephedrine to Satta and Pindi.”It further states that knowledge and intention on the part of Majithia to facilitate supply of pseudoephedrine to Satta and Pindi is clear. “However, as Majithia has denied these allegations, the degree and support and facilitation provided by Majithia and consideration for which such support was provided is to be clarified by further investigation of parties involved,” reads the report. Monetary transactionsOn Majithia’s monetary transactions with other accused, the STF chief had relied on Chahal’s statement to the ED claiming that a payment of ₹35 lakh was allegedly made to the then minister in about seven to eight instalments between 2007 and 2012. “At this time, Chahal was allegedly involved in manufacturing/supply of illegal drugs. As Majithia has denied receiving any funds from Chahal, they need to be investigated further,” reads the report. The investigation will involve examining financial transactions made by persons who are close associates and partners of family members of all those involved in the case to uncover whether their assets and investments generated from genuine earnings or are from “benami,” the report said. “It is based on the these findings that the report concluded that prima facie there is sufficient evidence on record to further investigated the role of Majithia as regards the allegations made in the application under inquiry,” the STF chief concluded. Majithia has repeatedly termed STF chief biasedMajithia, however, has repeatedly termed findings by the STF chief as biased, claiming that Harpreet Singh Sidhu was his estranged cousin and has a personal family grudges. When this report was leaked in a section of media in 2018, Majithia had accusedthe STF chief of colluding with Congress leader Navjot Singh Sidhu against him. Even BoI head SK Asthana has raised doubt over the STF chief’s probe. “In all fairness, Sidhu should have recused himself from carrying out any probe against Majithia, which less submit his opinion-cum-status report before the high court,” Asthana had written. The letter of the Punjab DGP, which is also part of the FIR, reveals that the orders over invoking sections of the NDPS Act were also directed by the DGP office to the BoI. “On the basis of the STF status report and opinion of AG, a cognisable offence is made out and therefore a case be registered,” stated the DGP in the letter. In cases mentioned in the report and associated cases of drug trafficking, it is essential that offences under Section 24, 27A and 29 of the NDPS Act, apart from additional offences which are indicated or emerge later, need to be investigated, stated the letter.Notable, the ED has not taken any action against Majithia even after statements of Aulakh and Chahal. Even Asthana had pointed it out in the leaked letter that when the agency that originally probed the case did not file any challan against Majithia, how could the Punjab Police do so. Bikram Singh Majithia: He became a minister in the SAD government in 2007 after getting elected for the first time from Majithia constituency, and won in 2012 and 2017 too. Brother-in-law of SAD chief Sukhbir Singh Badal, he overshadowed many senior leaders, but found himself in the eye of controversy after drug lord Jagdish Bhola pointed to his involvement in the illegal trade in Punjab. Jagdish Bhola: A former international wrestler and sacked DSP, he was the kingpin of drug racket that was busted by Punjab Police in 2013. An Arjuna awardee, Bhola has properties worth crores. He was the first one to name Bikram Singh Majithia in the drug case, before the media while being produced in court in Mohali in January 2014. He was convicted in 2018. Jagjit Singh Chahal: A pharmaceutical businessman based in Amritsar, he was named by Bhola as the drug supplier. Police made huge recoveries from his firms in Baddi in 2013. He alleged involvement of three NRIs — Satpreet Satta, Pindi, Laddi — and told ED that Satta used to stay at Majithia’s official residence. He has been convicted. The three NRIs have not been apprehended yet. Maninder Singh Bittu Aulakh: An Amritsar-based Akali leader, who is into tyres business, he was arrested for supplying drugs in 2013. He told the ED in 2015 that Satta, Pindi and Laddi were doing business dealings with Chahal, which was in Majithia’s knowledge. In 2018, he got bail from the Punjab and Haryana high court. KNOW THE RACKET BUSTERS Niranjan Singh: Former deputy director in the enforcement directorate, Niranjan questioned Majithia, ex-minister Sarwan Singh Phillaur and other politicians in the case. He alleged political pressure a number of times, and was transferred to Kolkata in the middle of investigation, but it was stayed by the high court. He retired in June this year. Harpreet Singh Sidhu: A 1992-batch IPS officer, he was serving on deputation in CRPF before being brought back by chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh to head the special task force against drugs in 2017. Due to his aggressive style, the ADGP locked horns with senior police functionaries. He was tasked with analysing the ED probe on Majithia and give the status report. Navkiran Singh: A Chandigarh-based lawyer and general secretary of Lawyers For Human Rights International, he got associated with the drugs case in 2014 as an “intervener” and has followed it up since then. He filed fresh application seeking opening of 2018 sealed reports of STF in April this year. He has doggedly pursued the legal battle on the drug issue. TIMELINE: DRUG CASES IN HC AND PROBE AGAINST MAJITHIA Sept 16, 2013: HC takes suo motu note of retired IPS officer Shashi Kant’s letter on drug menace December 26, 2014: Majithia appears before ED Jalandhar office to record his statement on money laundering allegations. January 21, 2015: HC stays transfer of then ED officer Niranjan Singh, who had quizzed Majithia in drugs case April 30, 2015: HC asks Niranjan Singh to prepare note on “role” of Majithia May 6, 2015: Niranjan Singh shares the note October 7, 2015: HC rejects CBI probe demand made by accused persons who alleged Majithia’s involvement. A supervisory committee of three IPS officers formed to relook into all drug cases November 28, 2017: The HC asks special task force led by HS Sidhu to file a status report on allegations against Majithia and other high-profile persons December 15, 2017: HC ropes in Chattopadhyaya to probe role of police officers in drugs cases February 1, 2018: STF submits report; HC asks Punjab government to examine and take action on the report March 15, 2018: Chattopadhyaya alleges that he was being “implicated” in a suicide case due to his investigation; HC stays probe against him May 8, 2018: Two reports filed in HC by Chattopadhyaya. One report deals with the “role” of then DGP Suresh Arora and DGP Dinkar Gupta May 23, 2018: Punjab government panel submits its opinion on a report prepared by STF on alleged involvement of Majithia and others. HC takes all reports on record, says all need to be examined in conjunction August 6, 2021: Navkiran Singh approaches HC seeks opening of sealed cover reports October 13, 2021: Punjab tells HC it has no objection to opening of reports, also demands reports submitted by Chattopadhyaya be opened. November 18, 2021: Majithia approaches HC demanding that he be made a party in drugs PIL as his image is being tarnished by political opponents December 6, 2021: Punjab AG tells HC that there is no embargo from court to proceed on sealed cover reports. Court also says there was no restrain order 
22-12-2021||Other||Gurugram resident duped of car, ₹21,500 in online fraud||A 38-year-old resident was allegedly duped of ₹21,500 and his car by crooks on the pretext of transporting the vehicle from Gurugram to Madurai in Tamil Nadu on November 11, police said. According to police, complainant K Jeykumar, a resident of South City 2, found a logistics company online to send his Hyundai i10 car. After paying the transport charges, the car was picked up by an “employee” of the fake company but it was not delivered to Madurai address, they said. A case was registered at Sector 50 police station under sections 406 (breach of trust) and 384 (extortion) of Indian Penal Code on Tuesday. Jeykumar alleged that despite paying the transport fees to send his car, it has not been delivered yet. “After discussion with the suspect, I paid a total amount of 21,500 in two transactions to the company. After successful payment from my end, they sent a person to my house to pick the car. After handing over my car, I received a call from one Lalit Sharma and he started demanding more money to transport the vehicle.”Police said when they contacted the suspects, they assured to return the car and money, but later switched off their mobile phones. KK Rao, commissioner of police, said that a few gangs are running a fake transport firm impersonating as a leading packers and movers company and have allegedly duped several people on the pretext of providing low-cost services. “The gang lures customers offering low rates and then flee with their cars,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/gurugram-resident-duped-of-car-21-500-in-online-fraud-101640117556089.html
22-12-2021||Chandigarh||After bypoll defeat, BJP trying to regain its lost ground in Himachal with PM Modi rally||In a bid to reconsolidate its position in the hill state after a major drubbing in the recently conducted bypolls, the Himachal government, led by chief minister Jai Ram Thakur, has marked mega celebrations, which include a rally by the Prime Minister (PM) Narendra Modi, to mark the completion of Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)’s four-year rule in the state. The PM will address a rally in Mandi’s Paddal ground on December 27. He is also scheduled to lay foundation stones and inaugurate different developmental projects to the tune of ₹11,279 crore. This is the PM’s first visit to Himachal after the party’s debacle in the bypolls. Recently, the party’s national president Jagat Parkash Nadda had visited Bilaspur to inaugurate the outpatient department of All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS). Modi will lay the foundation stone of the ₹6,946-crore Multipurpose Renuka Dam to be constructed on a tributary of Yamuna river. It is meant to supply 23 cusecs of water to Delhi and also generate 40 MW of electricity for Himachal Pradesh. The project will also supply water to Haryana, Uttar Pradesh, Rajasthan, and Uttarakhand. “The proposed dam will be built across the Giri tributary of Yamuna. He will also inaugurate Sawra-Kuddu Hydle project and lay the foundation stone for ₹210 megawatt Luhri stage and Dhaulasidh hydel power project,” said chief minister Jai Ram Thakur while briefing the media on the four-year celebration. Thakur admitted that the party’s defeat in the bypoll was a learning experience for him. He had been laying low after his party loss in the three assemblies, Arki, Fatehpur, Jubbal and Kotkhai, and the prestigious Mandi Lok Sabha seat. Party claimed that the sympathy wave after former chief minister Virbhadra Singh’s death worked in his widow Pratibha Singh’s favour.“The defeat in the byelection will lead to the door of victory in the 2022 assembly polls as BJP has been alerted by the defeat. The public doesn’t vote in the name of tribute, and the sympathy factor doesn’t always work. The situation will be altogether different in 2022, and BJP will repeat the government.” BJP had organised a rally to mark its first-year rule in Dharamshala and Union home minister Amit Shah and national President Jagat Parkash Nadda had attended its second year’s celebration on a historic ridge in Shimla. Responding to claims of the CM not having a grip on the bureaucracy of the state, Thakur said, “Even CMs who supposedly had a grip on the bureaucracy could not repeat their government in Himachal Pradesh.” He added that he did not work with the motive of vendetta or vengeance and has made efforts to rise above the politics of regionalism to ensure the equal development of state.
22-12-2021||Chandigarh||Political action should not be taken to satisfy ego: Punjab BJP chief on Majithia drug case||Political action should not be taken to satisfy one’s ego or for political vendetta, Bharatiya Janata Party’s Punjab chief Ashwani Sharma said on Tuesday while reacting to a drug case registered against former cabinet minister and senior Akali leader Bikram Singh Majithia.“The guilty should be punished at all costs... However, questions will be raised on the timing, as to why action is being taken after over four-and-a-half years,” said Sharma, questioning the Congress government’s failure to “work seriously” towards making Punjab a drug-free state.“The BJP has a clear stand that action should not be taken with political motive, but the drug accused should not be spared, whether one is a big man or anyone else. Eventually, the court will decide who is guilty,” said the BJP leader, who was in Sangrur to hold a meeting with party workers ahead of the assembly elections.Sharma said the BJP has given the slogan of “Nawa Punjab” (New Punjab), as the Congress and Akali governments had failed to address decades old issues of corruption, drug and illegal mining. “We will make a corruption-free and drug-free Punjab. Those who want to be part of this journey will be welcomed,” he said.Questioned about some tainted Congress leaders joining the saffron party, he said: “The BJP is working with its philosophy. Every person who believes in the party’s ideology and has a clean image will be inducted.”
22-12-2021||Other||Punjab to file status report on probe in sacrilege cases by Jan 21||Chandigarh The Punjab government on Tuesday told the Punjab and Haryana high court that it would file a status report on probe into sacrilege cases of 2015, by January 21. The submissions was made during the resumed hearing of a plea from Dera Sacha Sauda head, Gurmeet Ram Rahim, who has approached the HC, seeking that Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) should be asked to continue with the probe into sacrilege FIRs of 2015. The plea was filed on December 13 and seeks quashing of the notification of September 6, 2018 by Punjab government wide which the consent given to CBI to investigate three FIRs of sacrilege cases has been withdrawn. It has also sought directions that CBI be tasked with to continue the probe into these FIRs. It also prays that the probe by the special investigation team (SIT) of Punjab police be stayed. Ram Rahim is lodged in the Sunaria jail in Rohtak following his conviction in two rape cases and two murder cases, all of 2002. Punjab Police have questioned him twice this year, in its probe into sacrilege cases. Recently, many other dera functionaries have also been quizzed by the SIT. According to the Punjab Police, the dera head has emerged as a main “conspirator”. As per the dera head, the statement which is being cited as basis for launching this probe against him was obtained in July 2020. But now suddenly, SIT has swung into action. The SIT probe is for the sole purpose of “implicating” the petitioner and members of the Dera Sacha Sauda and gain electoral benefit in February 2022 polls in Punjab, he claims. The plea also says that Vidhan Sabha has no power to enter into working of the executive and the resolution of August 2018 on withdrawal of cases from the CBI and entrusting it to state police SIT is hit by the separation of powers between legislators and executive.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/punjab-to-file-status-report-on-probe-in-sacrilege-cases-by-jan-21-101640117501891.html
22-12-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab AAP on drug case: Also book those who shielded Majithia||Aam Aadmi Party leader Bhagwant Mann on Tuesday blamed Shiromani Akali Dal chief Sukhbir Singh Badal and former chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh for the “mess” created by drugs and sacrilege incidents in Punjab.Addressing political rallies at Jandiala Guru and Bholath assembly segments in Amritsar and Kapurthala districts, respectively, the Punjab AAP chief and Sangrur MP said that the Charanjit Singh Channi government should not just register a drug case against Akali leader Bikram Singh Majithia but also against those who had been “protecting” him for four-and-a-half years. “During the SAD-BJP government, many youths had succumbed to drug addiction and the situation continued even during the Congress government. The Congress has not done anything against Bikram Majithia in the drug case for the last five years, and has now registered an FIR. But who is responsible for drug-related deaths during the last five years?” said Mann. Mann said that after forming the Congress government, Amarinder had sworn on Gutka Sahib that he would wipe out the drug problem and provide employment to every household, but he “continued to rest at his palace in Siswan”. Criticising the present government, Mann said chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi, Punjab Congress chief Navjot Sidhu and other leaders were always fighting among themselves. He said the CM should have a vision or a policy for his people and baseless announcements will not suffice. “People of Punjab had sought resolution of all their issues from the Congress and Akalis for 70 years, but the diseases of debt, corruption, unemployment and drug addiction had not been cured. It is time to change the regime,” said Mann, adding that AAP supremo and Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal had proved that everything can be improved when the common man comes to power. ‘An election stunt’Meanwhile, AAP’s Punjab co-in-charge Raghav Chadha termed the FIR against Majithia an “election stunt” of the ruling Congress. Chadha said the Channi government had only one week left as the election code of conduct would be implemented by the end of December. “The Congress government is trying to make fool out of the people of Punjab by doing the drama of FIR,” he claimed at a press conference here. Chadha said the Congress government did not take any action or conduct any major investigation for almost five years, but had now registered the FIR with just days left for the elections. “If the Congress government really wanted to bring justice to the people in the drug case, then why no major investigation or action has been taken since March 16, 2017, the day the Congress came in power in the state,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-aap-on-drug-case-also-book-those-who-shielded-majithia-101640117500431.html
22-12-2021||Chandigarh||Drug case against Majithia an act of vendetta, abuse of power: Badals||Reacting to the registration of a drug case against former Shiromani Akali Dal minister Bikram Singh Majithia, party patriarch Parkash Singh Badal said on Tuesday that he was apprehending such an action by the Congress government in Punjab. Talking to media persons at his native village Badal in Muktsar, the former chief minister called the case “false, shameful and an act of vendetta”. Badal alleged that the government had transferred three directors general of police as “none was willing to register a false case”. “Generally, DGPs are not transferred in a quick succession. Finally, the government deputed him (S. Chattopadhyaya) to send the Badals and Majithia into the jail,” said Badal. Asking the state government to stop making futile efforts, Badal said that he was ready to face arrest and would reach wherever the government asks him to. “Congress governments have always tried to weaken Punjab and Akali Dal. However, when I was the chief minister, I never troubled any Congress leader. Because when in government, parties work for the entire state,” said Badal.Sukhbir warns those ‘abusing official positions’Meanwhile, SAD president Sukhbir Singh Badal, who was in Amritsar on Tuesday, lashed out the Congress government for ”falsely implicating” his brother-in-law in the drug case and warned “those abusing their official positions and playing havoc with the rule of law to be ready to face legal consequences”.“The case has long been decided by competent courts and the guilty are already serving terms of the sentence. The Congress government and its hand-picked instruments have flouted all legal and administrative norms and thrown the rule of law to the winds just to play politics on one of the most sensitive issues facing Punjab today,” said Sukhbir. ‘Trying to divert attention from sacrilege cases’The party also held a press conference in Chandigarh, where leaders Prem Singh Chandumajra, Maheshinder Singh Grewal and Daljit Singh Cheema said that at a time when the state wants peace and harmony, the Congress government had filed a “fabricated” case against Majithia after failing to implicate top Akali leadership in sacrilege cases. Terming the Congress government move “an unsuccessful attempt to divert attention from its failure in taking action in the case of Golden Temple sacrilege, Grewal said the FIR in the drug case relates to an incident that had occurred in 2004 during a time when the Congress was in power in the state. “The report of the special task force (STF) led by Harpreet Sidhu has been reproduced in the FIR. The Congress government should explain how it has reproduced a report which is lying in a sealed envelope in the high court in the FIR,” Grewal added. He also asked the state government to disclose the contents of the report of the two-member committee of the ACS and the state DGP, which superseded the report of the STF, and was also kept in a sealed envelope with Punjab and Haryana high court.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/drug-case-against-majithia-an-act-of-vendetta-abuse-of-power-badals-101640117498860.html
22-12-2021||Chandigarh||UPSC meeting to appoint regular Punjab DGP postponed||The much-awaited meeting of the Union Public Service Commission (UPSC) for the appointment of a regular Punjab director general of police (DGP) was postponed on Tuesday, reportedly because of confusion over the cut-off date. The meeting scheduled at 10:30 am was postponed even as the Punjab chief secretary had reached the national capital to attend it.According to a senior Punjab government functionary the meeting was postponed as after fixing of the interview, the state government on December 18 again wrote to the UPSC to change October 5 as the cut-off date for considering the name for selection of three officials. Now, Punjab wants to fix September 30 as the cut-off date for the selection of the officers for the top job in order to ensure that present officiating DGP Sidharth Chattopadhyaya gets the chance. There is no communication about the next date from the UPSC side, it is learnt.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/upsc-meeting-to-appoint-regular-punjab-dgp-postponed-101640117497659.html
22-12-2021||Chandigarh||PSPCL: Baldev Singh Sran back as CMD||The state government has appointed Baldev Singh Sran as the chief managing director (CMD) of the Punjab State Power Corporation Limited (PSPCL) for the second time.His term is for a period of one year and can be extended by another year. Earlier, a screening-cum-selection committee headed by the chief secretary had shortlisted five candidates for the post.Sran had retired as the CMD PSPCL on June 6,2020, after completing his two-year tenure. He is well conversant with the nitty-gritty of power purchase agreements and is expected to take these to a conclusion with active political support.During his earlier tenure of two years, all-around improvement was visible in the Punjab power sector. There was a policy of zero tolerance to power theft and corruption. For the first time, power was sold during summer, and the PSPCL gained over ₹1,183 crore with a profit margin of Rs453 crore during his first tenure.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/pspcl-baldev-singh-sran-back-as-cmd-101640117495100.html
22-12-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab CM promises to resolve nurses’ issues||Chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi on Tuesday assured striking nurses of early resolution of their demands. Channi gave the assurance to a delegation of Punjab and UT Nursing Joint Action Committee that met him at his official residence.He also appealed to them to shun the path of agitation, and directed senior officers of health and medical education departments to get these issues thoroughly examined and resolved to the nurses’ satisfaction within 10 days, according to an official release.Panel to identify new voters in PunjabPunjab chief electoral officer Dr S Karuna Raju on Tuesday constituted a three-member committee to identify new voters in the state. The CEO was chairing a meeting of various departments, including health, education and birth and death departments, at his office here. The three-member committee headed by SVEEP coordinator Dr Navneet Walia has superintendent Rakesh Khanna and data administrator Charanjit Singh as members.Guv reviews govt schemes at HoshiarpurPunjab governor Banwari Lal Purohit on Tuesday reviewed implementation of various government schemes and ongoing vaccination drive in Hoshiarpur district. He held a meeting with administrative officials and took stock of benefits being disbursed to beneficiaries. Deputy commissioner Apneet Riyait informed the governor that the health department was working diligently to administer 100% vaccine jabs to people in the district.Two gangsters held in KapurthalaTwo members of the Badonga Gang, whose kingpin had murdered a BSP worker in broad daylight in Phillaur in September 2019, were arrested in Kapurthala on Tuesday. The two have been identified as Jasvir Singh of Kapurthala and Pardeep Singh of SBS Nagar, who were wanted in multiple criminal cases. Police also recovered two pistols and nine cartridges from their possession.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-cm-to-resolve-nurses-issues-101640117493907.html
22-12-2021||Other||Gurugram: Executive lured with ₹25L KBC lottery, duped of ₹51k||A 38-year-old executive of a private firm has allegedly been duped of ₹51,000 by fraudsters, who claimed they were calling from Kaun Banega Crorepati (KBC) and told him that he had won a lottery of ₹25 lakh but had to pay charges to claim the amount. The victim paid the processing fees and taxes and later realised that he was duped, police said. The victim, Shiv Chander Kumar, a native of Bihar who works in Manesar, lives in a rented accommodation in the area with his family. Police said the victim approached the cyber crime police station in April and after investigation, a case of fraud was registered at Manesar police station on Tuesday. An investigation is underway in the case, they said.Kumar said that on April 13, he received a call from an unknown number. The caller identified himself as Pratap Singh from KBC, and told him he had won a lottery of ₹25 lakh, Kumar said, adding that the caller gave him a phone number to process the lottery amount. Pankaj Singh, station house officer of Manesar police station, said that more than five calls were received and they asked him to pay money at different stages to claim the lottery money. “When the complainant called the given number, another person picked up and asked him to pay ₹51,000 as processing fee. He was made to call another person who demanded more money for processing the cheque,” he said.  Singh said fraudsters these days are making WhatsApp calls and are using the KBC to dupe people. The fraudsters are believed to be based in foreign countries and are enticing Indians with a ₹25 lakh lottery, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/gurugram-executive-lured-with-25l-kbc-lottery-duped-of-51k-101640117254065.html
22-12-2021||Chandigarh||Himachal cop caught taking bribe tries to run over vigilance sleuths||A Himachal Pradesh police officer allegedly attempted to run over a team of the state vigilance and anti-corruption bureau, who caught him red-handed while accepting bribe, in Nadaun of Hamirpur district on Tuesday.The accused has been identified as Neeraj Rana, the station house officer (SHO) of Nadaun police station. He sped away in his car after the incident, even as the vigilance team had a narrow escape. Though the private car has now been recovered, the accused continues to be on the run. Superintendent of police (SP, vigilance), north range, Rahul Nath said the accused cop had demanded ₹25,000 bribe from a person in lieu of allowing him to take some cattle to Pathankot, Punjab.The aggrieved person then approached the vigilance bureau and also alleged that the SHO in question had threatened to implicate him in a false case if his demand for money is not met.After receiving the complaint, a team from bureau’s Hamirpur police station laid a trap. The complainant was directed to ask the accused to come to an agreed place to receive the money. Rana arrived in his private car and accepted the bribe. However, when he came to know about the presence of vigilance sleuths, Rana took off in his car in a clear attempt to run over them.He has booked under Section 302 (murder) of the Indian Penal Code and sections of the Prevention of Corruption Act.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/himachal-cop-caught-taking-bribe-tries-to-run-over-vigilance-sleuths-101640117073718.html
22-12-2021||Other||Farm protest continues; gates of 13 administrative complexes blocked||Sangrur/Hoshiarpur Farmers under the banner of Bhartiya Kisan Union (Ekta-Ugrahan) intensified agitation against the state government on the second consecutive day, by blocking gates of the district administrative complexes in 13 districts to highlight the unfulfilled promises of the Congress government on Tuesday. Thousands of farmers, including women in massive numbers, are on five-day protest till December 24.The organisation is demanding ₹17,000 per acre compensation to farmers for crops loss, hiked price of ₹360 per quintal for sugarcane from sugar mills, ₹3 lakh compensation, a government job and debt waiver for family members of farmers and farm labourers, who committed suicide. The farm leaders added that the state government should quash all FIRs against farmers registered during the agitation against agricultural laws and give ₹5 lakh compensation and a government job to the kin of those who died during the struggle.68-YEAR-OLD DIES AT KISAN MAZDOOR PROTEST SITE In Hoshiarpur, a 68-year-old farmer died due to cold at the protest site of Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Committee (KMSC) near the Tanda railway station on Tuesday. He has been identified as Rattan Singh, of Ladhubhana village, in Gurdaspur. Rattan had reportedly joined the protest on Monday and slept in a vehicle, along with other protesters. In the morning, he was found dead.The farmers had kept his body at the railway track and held a demonstration against the government. Farm leader Savinder Singh Chutala said the farmer had died due to government’s apathy, and demanded a compensation of ₹10 lakh for the deceased’s kin. Dasuya SDM Randip Singh Heer visited the site and appealed to farmers to hand over the body to a family, who had also arrived there to claim it. Farmers, however, claimed that they would not allow the last rites till the government announced compensation and a job to a member of the deceased’s family.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/farm-protest-continues-gates-of-13-administrative-complexes-blocked-101640116837395.html
22-12-2021||Gurugram||663 acres HSVP land encroached in Gurugram, state assembly told||The state government on Tuesday said officials of the Haryana Shahari Vikas Pradhikaran (HSVP) would be held responsible if any land owned by the authority is found to be encroached upon. During the winter session of the state assembly on Tuesday, agriculture minister J P Dalal said around 663.05 acre land owned by HSVP is encroached in Gurugram. Of this, around 466.29 acre of land is under litigation in various courts and steps are being taken to resolve the legal issues while the authority is taking efforts to get the remaining 196.76 acre of land cleared. Replying to a question in the state assembly, Dalal said that if there is any encroachment in any area supervised by an officer of the HSVP, the responsibility of the concerned officer will then be fixed. “For this, the concerned officer will have to submit report every month... that no encroachment has taken place in the area,” he said. Dalal also said that during the auction from June to December 7 this year,property worth ₹5,761 crore was auctioned and the authority received a total of ₹1,075.42 crore from buyers.  Meanwhile, HSVP officials said that to clear the encroachments in the city, they have started anti-encroachment drives in both estate office one and estate office two. Sandeep Lot, junior engineer, HSVP, said on Tuesday itself, around eight acres of encroached land owned by the authority in Sector 52 was cleared. “We are carrying out such drives since last three months and large chunks of land have been cleared. We have removed obstructions on roads and cleared land in a number of sectors. Despite opposition from encroachers, the drive has been continuing and all the land owned by authority will be cleared, “ he said. Lot said illegal constructions, shops, hutments were cleared on Tuesday during the drive in Sector 52.
22-12-2021||Lucknow||Cloud kitchens, home bakers make Christmas celebrations much sweeter||Age-old traditional bakeries at Lalbagh locality in the state capital have been the hub of festive sweet delights, some good old Christmas cakes and more. Plush modern bakeries too have made their strong presence felt on the festive occasions but now home bakers and cloud kitchens have certainly added new dimension to the festivities by offering new and customized services. Giving a peek into old traditions as well as new trends, Vandana Newton, a teacher at St Domnic Savio School, says, “Elders in Christian families stick to tradition of preparing ingredients much before, getting dry fruits, berries and taking the material to get their cakes baked. Those who cannot, for any reason, get them from modern bakeries while the younger lot is experimenting with donuts, pies, brownies, Nutella breads, brittles, truffles and what not from these innovative cloud kitchens and home bakers!” Chef Shambhavi Gupta has been running Sugar Frolic Bakery since last three years on cloud-kitchen model. “From gifting corporate who give us customized orders to dedicated retail clients; we consider Diwali and Christmas-New Year as the best period. We are eggless bakery and people trust us for products. They love our rum cakes and other variants. Besides gift hampers people love Christmas crinkle cookies, dark chocolate disk, choco-hazelnut bar, heart bomb, cinnamon buns, almond brittle, brownies and savoury snacks,” says the young baker. Cloud kitchen have added a completely new range to celebrate festivities. Like The Rolling Pin is offering French baguette, muffin cup-cakes, croissant, ciabatta bread, focaccia, dessert jars, pretzels and lot more besides their variety of Christmas cakes to make the festival special. At Bhavya’s Amazin Glazing, a young baker says, “Traditional cakes you get everywhere but people come us they have customized needs in mind. Modern touch with tradition is what people want these days. People now very well know what kind of quality stuff we use and what our creative level is. We are busy preparing orders both rum-cakes and other bakery stuff.” Vikas Malik of Danbro by Mr Brown, which runs multiple bakeries in the city, says, “The market is growing and there is enough room for everyone. Like, we have authentic plum cakes and best of the modern bakery items under a roof. Tradition and new-age things will surely co-exist.” With international items and new products been introduced by young experimental bakers it’s a win-win situation for everyone, says Chef Bhasker Mishra.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/cloud-kitchens-home-bakers-make-christmas-celebrations-much-sweeter-101640116834414.html
22-12-2021||Chandigarh||Himachal all set for a white Christmas||Himachal Pradesh is all set for a white Christmas as the Met department has forecast a spell of snow and rain from December 24, as a fresh Western Disturbance is set to activate over the region.Two Western Disturbances will likely affect Northwest India -- one on December 24 and another on December 26 --in quick succession. This will cause a fresh spell of snow in the higher reaches and rains in the middle hills, said Surender Paul, head of Shimla MeT Centre.The weather will be relatively dry in the plains, he said.He said the weather was dry across the state on Tuesday. Minimum temperatures have increased by 1-2°C. Keylong, the administrative headquarters of tribal Lahaul-Spiti district, was the coldest with minimum temperature at -6.3°C—a rise of about four degrees as compared to Monday’s low of -10.2° C.Kalpa in another tribal district of Kinnaur saw a low of -1.6°C. State capital Shimla recorded night temperature of 5.4°C and the hill resort of Manali shivered at 0.8°C. Tourist destination Kufri and Dalhousie recorded a low of 1.4°C and 3.4°C respectively.Palampur’s night temperature was 3.5°C and that of Dharamshala was 3.4°C.The snow forecast has also brought cheers to the hospitality industry as the tourist towns of Shimla, Manali and Dalhousie gear up for Christmas celebrations.Shimla hotel and restaurant association vice-president Prince Kukreza said it was after a gap of two years that there will be grand celebrations on Christmas Eve.He said hotels in cities were offering concession on packages to attract the tourists besides 10-20% discount on advance bookings.The packages ranging from ₹4,500 to ₹22,000, include DG parties, meals and sightseeing. The Himachal Pradesh Tourism Development Corporation (HPTDC) is also organising dance and dine parties in its units. The tourists will be served the special cuisines, said HPTDC authorities.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/himachal-all-set-for-a-white-christmas-101640116593861.html
22-12-2021||Other||At 4.8 degrees, Gurugram records season’s lowest temperature||With 4.8 degrees Celsius, Gurugram on Tuesday recorded the lowest temperature this season, which was two degrees below normal, according to the India Meteorological Department. However, over the next four days, the minimum temperature is likely to rise and will be around 8°C, the IMD said.On Monday, the city had reported a minimum temperature of 7°C. The maximum temperature on Tuesday was recorded at 21.4°C in Gurugram, which was one degree below normal, the IMD said. “Over the next four days, a gradual rise in minimum temperature by 3-5°C is very likely over most parts of Punjab and Haryana, and no significant change thereafter. On December 23-24, dense fog is likely in the districts of south and south-east Haryana which include Gurugram and Faridabad. A yellow alert asking authorities to be prepared has been issued for these two days,” said Manmohan Singh, director of Meteorological Centre Chandigarh, a regional centre of IMD. According to the weekly forecast of the IMD, the city will witness partly cloudy sky till December 26 and there is a possibility of rain or thunderstorm on December 27. Over the next four days, the maximum temperature will be around 22°C, the forecast said. Weather experts said that temperatures will rise over the next few days due to the impact of two back-to-back western disturbances in the Himalayan region, which will increase humidity and moisture in the plains. Mahesh Palawat, vice-president (meteorology and climate change), Skymet, a private weather forecasting agency, said, “On Tuesday, Gurugram recorded a sharp drop in minimum temperature, which was the result of dry and cold northerly winds. But from Wednesday, we are expecting that temperatures will increase and the prevailing cold wave conditions will cease. This is because with western disturbance, the northernly flow of icy cold winds get obstructed and wind direction changes to south-easterly, which is relatively warmer and humid.” He further said with increase in temperature and high moisture content in the air, pollution levels will also start increasing due to comparatively lesser wind speed which is unfavourable for dispersion of pollutants. Meanwhile, on Tuesday, Gurugram recorded ‘very poor’ quality of air with an air quality index of 314, according to the Central Pollution Control Board’s 4pm bulletin. On Monday, the city had recorded an AQI of 284 which was in the ‘poor’ category. According to the weather bulletin issued on Tuesday by the Air Quality Early Warning System for Delhi-NCR, the air quality over the national capital territory is likely to remain in ‘very poor’ category on Wednesday and Thursday also owing to slow or calm winds and poor ventilation conditions. The air quality is likely to remain in ‘very poor’ category till December 25 and improve thereafter and significant improvement may be seen from December 27 onwards, the weather bulletin said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/at-4-8-degrees-gurugram-records-season-s-lowest-temperature-101640116474977.html
22-12-2021||Other||Punjab DGP shielding sexual harassment accused: Ferozepur MLA||Bathinda Congress MLA from Ferozepur Parminder Singh Pinky on Tuesday accused the state police chief Siddharth Chattopadhyaya of shielding an accused of sexual harassment “The accused is wanted by the police in a serious offence. The DGP, however, is accessible to the offender and has been unfair to a victim of a sexual harassment,” Pinky alleged, adding that we would meet chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi and would request him to scrutinise call detail records (CDR) of the Punjab DGP to check if he was in constant touch with the accused, Varinder Pal Singh, a businessman from Ferozepur City.“Chattopadhyaya should be removed from the top post for trying to influence the investigation,” the MLA added, addressing reporters after meeting the Ferozepur SSP Harmandeep Singh Hans on Tuesday. The victim was by his side. In October last year, a case was registered against Varinder Pal at the Kulgarhi police station, on the intervention of the Punjab State Women Commission. He was charged under Section 67A (publishing or transmitting of material containing the sexually explicit act) of the Information Technology Act, 354 (to outrage modesty), 304-A (physical contact and advances involving unwelcome and explicit sexual overtures) and other sections of the IPC. Varinder Pal has not been arrested yet.The victim alleged that the police had been trying to hush up her complaint of sexual harassment since Chattopadhyaya took charge as the state DGP. Chattopadhyaya did not respond to HT’s repeated calls and messages to get his comment on the MLA’s allegations.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/punjab-dgp-shielding-sexual-harassment-accused-ferozepur-mla-101640116473684.html
22-12-2021||Other||Gurugram vaccinates 100% of its target population, first in Haryana||Gurugram has become the first district in Haryana to complete 100% Covid vaccination of its eligible population with both doses, said officials from the district health department on Tuesday. On Tuesday, 7,723 people were vaccinated in the district, according to data shared by the health department. Till now, over 4.13 million doses of Covid-19 vaccine have been administered in Gurugram. “Gurugram has become the first district in Haryana, and perhaps in the National Capital Region also, to successfully vaccinate 100% of its eligible population with both doses of vaccine against Covid-19. This is a milestone for us, as Gurugram was one of the worst affected districts during the second wave of the pandemic. But our focus will still remain on vaccinating more people. More than 128% of the eligible population have been given the first dose while second dose coverage stood at around 101% as of Tuesday,” said Dr Virender Yadav, chief medical officer (CMO) of Gurugram while addressing the media. In Gurugram, 1,803,656 people were eligible for Covid-19 vaccination. The officials said that the first-dose vaccination coverage crossed way above 100% as several people from other districts and a migrating population have also been vaccinated in the district.Since January this year when the vaccination campaign was started in Gurugram, over 40,400 inoculation sessions have been conducted across the district, the data shows. Over 697,000 houses have been covered as part of the ‘har ghar dastak’ campaign with over 253,357 people being vaccinated through this campaign which started on November 3, the officials said, adding that over 8,400 pregnant women have been vaccinated in the district through the dedicated vaccination sessions. What helped achieve 100% vaccinationYadav further said that different initiatives -- drive-through vaccination sessions in malls, special vaccination camps for the third gender and specially abled, vaccination camps on the 9th of every month for pregnant women, vaccination at religious places, offices, and condominiums -- helped achieve this feat within 11 months, since the vaccination campaign was rolled out in the country on January 16. What’s next The district health department has decided to start conducting surveys of 1,000 people at random in different localities and identify those who are yet to take either dose of vaccine and then vaccinate them. “We will be conducting surveys in different localities, both rural and urban, where 1,000 people at random will be identified who are yet to take their Covid-19 vaccine. This will help in planning how to proceed with the vaccination campaign further. We have not decided when this survey will start,” said the CMO. The officials also said that the data of children between 0 to 6 years and 6 to 18 years of age is being collected. This will be used in future when guidelines are issued to start vaccination among children, they said. Gurugram reports highest single-day cases since June Meanwhile, with 23 fresh Covid-19 cases, Gurugram on Tuesday reported the highest number of positive cases in a single day in the past six months, said the officials, adding that 10 recoveries were also reported from the district on Tuesday. The officials said that it was a day in June when the district had reported 21 cases of Covid-19. With the new cases on Tuesday, the tally of active cases now stands at 112 in Gurugram, of which 108 are in home isolation while four patients are hospitalised, the officials said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/gurugram-vaccinates-100-of-its-target-population-first-in-haryana-101640116053753.html
22-12-2021||Other||Two docs sentenced to 10-year jail in 2002 Amritsar kidney racket||Amritsar The court of additional district and sessions judge Darbari Lal on Tuesday awarded ten-year rigorous imprisonment to two doctors in the Amritsar kidney racket of 2002, besides imposing a fine of ₹35,000.In 2002, it came to light that a trade in human organs was on in Amritsar. Poor and innocent persons were induced into parting with their kidneys for a pittance, and was transplanted or sold to rich patients at a hefty profit. Doctors, in connivance with mediators and touts was running the scam, it was alleged. In 2003, Mulkh Raj Goel, whose kidneys had failed, contacted ‘Kakkar Hospital’ at Amritsar, where a deal was stuck for providing a kidney to him for ₹2.5 lakh of a donor, Sudesh Kumar, a labourer. The transplant was done, but Kumar was allegedly not provided post-extraction treatment, leading to his death. The convicts, Dr Bhushan Aggarwal and Dr Bhupinder Singh, were booked in Amritsar in two separate cases registered in 2002 and 2003, respectively. Over two dozen persons were also made the accused. Special public prosecutor Rajesh Salwan said, “Both the accused were awarded 10-year punishment under Section 304 Part-2 (culpable homicide) of the (IPC) which was invoked during the investigation of the 2003 FIR. The judge has also imposed ₹20,000 fine in this case.”He added that both the accused have been given 5-year imprisonment under Section 120-B (criminal conspiracy) of the IPC and Sections 18-19-20 of the The Indian Transplantation of Human Organs Act (THOA) invoked in the 2002 FIR. The 2003 FIR was registered during the investigation of the 2002 FIR. Salwan said 36 persons were made accused. “Some of them have died while some were declared proclaimed offenders. The trial ran against eight accused and six of them have been acquitted,” he said.Among the accused was also Gurdial Ram, personal security officer (PSO) of a then IG. Ram later died. The middlemen in the scam would look for vulnerable persons at public places. They would identify those from the economically weaker sections of society and in need of money. At time, they were abducted, intimidated and even confined till the suitable time for kidney transplant. Depending upon the profile of recipient, an amount ranging between ₹5 lakh and ₹18 lakh was charged.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/two-docs-sentenced-to-10-year-jail-in-2002-amritsar-kidney-racket-101640115993788.html
22-12-2021||Other||Badal skips hearing in SAD constitution forgery case||Hoshiarpur Hoshiarpur additional chief judicial magistrate Rupinder Singh has asked former chief minister Parkash Singh Badal to appear before his court on January 18, 2022, in connection with the Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) constitution forgery case. The SAD patriarch had been asked to appear on December 21, but his counsel submitted before the court that he could not come due to ill-health. In the same case, SAD president Sukhbir Singh Badal and Daljit Singh Cheema have already appeared in court. The senior Badal has neither presented himself in the court nor applied for bail, informed complainant Balwant Singh Khera’s counsel, Hitesh Puri. Khera had complained that the SAD possessed two constitutions – one that it had submitted with the Gurdwara Election Commission and the other with the Election Commission of India (ECI) to seek recognition as a political outfit. He alleged that the SAD had given a false undertaking to the ECI that it had amended its constitution to incorporate the principles of socialism and secularism, whereas it continued its activities as a ‘panthic’ party and openly participated in gurdwara elections||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/badal-skips-hearing-in-sad-constitution-forgery-case-101640115513610.html
22-12-2021||Chandigarh||Converting prayer meetings into show-of-strength is not good, says Khattar||Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar on Tuesday said it is “inappropriate” to hold Friday prayers in open public spaces as a ‘show of strength’, while advising every community to avoid organising such routine religious programmes in public places.“No member of any community should hold regular religious programmes in open public spaces,” Khattar said in the Vidhan Sabha after Congress’ Nuh assembly segment MLA Aftab Ahmed raised the issue of Hindu groups opposing Friday prayers in open public places in Gurugram.Khattar said whenever people want to organise such routine religious activities, they should hold them at temples, mosques, churches and gurdwaras.“Displaying a show of strength is not good as it provokes the sentiments of other communities,” Khattar said even as Congress MLA Ahmed reminded the CM that he is a custodian of the state and protector of people of every faith.The issue echoed in the House for the second time on Tuesday after the current winter session of the Vidhan Sabha began last Friday. Earlier, Congress MLA Mamman Khan (Ferozepur Jhirka), of Nuh district, had also raised the matter, objecting to Khattar’s recent remarks over ‘namaaz’ being held in public places.Both Ahmed and Khan demanded that the CM should withdraw his statement.However, the CM said it is the responsibility of all to ensure there is no social confrontation and a peaceful atmosphere is maintained. He said people of all faiths hold prayers at designated religious places such as temples, mosques, churches and gurdwaras and that permissions are given to organise big festivals and programmes in the open.“Gurugram is a symbol of development. What message is being sent out from Gurugram when one cannot offer prayers as per one’s choice?” the Congress MLA said, adding some elements are repeatedly disrupting Friday prayers.“The Constitution gives the right to practice one’s religion. No one has the right to disrupt prayers,” the Congress legislator said.On the other hand, Khattar said people have agreed to hold Friday prayers at certain places in Gurugram till new arrangements are made. “The good thing is that some places have been identified as per a consensus till new arrangements are made. When consensus is breached and some people hold prayers outside the agreed upon spots, it leads to confrontation,” Khattar said, advising the Opposition MLAs not to flare up this issue as this can spoil communal harmony.Khattar said there are annual events of all faiths be it Dussehra, Ram Lila, Urs, and these are held with due permission.“But in routine, daily or weekly (prayers), there are designated places,” he said, even as Ahmed demanded that ‘eidgahs’ and mosques should be freed from illegal encroachments in Gurugram so that Muslims are not forced to offer prayers in open.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/converting-prayer-meetings-into-show-of-strength-is-not-good-says-khattar-101640115454088.html
22-12-2021||Chandigarh||Haryana Vidhan Sabha: Congress stages walkout over MSP issue||The principal Opposition party, the Congress, walked out of the House after its calling attention notice seeking legal guarantee to farmers’ demand of minimum support price (MSP) was not accepted for discussion in the Haryana Vidhan Sabha.Speaker Gian Chand Gupta said the issue falls in the ambit of the Centre, evoking strong reaction from the Congress.In its notice sent to the Vidhan Sabha secretariat, the Congress had urged that the House adopt this resolution on making MSP legally enforceable to mitigate the “misery and distress of farmers”.“To address farmers’ concerns and make agriculture a viable proposition, it is imperative that the sale of farmers’ crops at MSP is made a legally-enforceable right,” the Congress had said in its notice.After the speaker announced that the notice has been rejected, Congress MLAs trooped to the well of the House shouting slogans. After a brief protest, Congress legislators staged a walkout and rejoined the House proceedings.Unanimity over naming Hisar airportHaryana Vidhan Sabha on Tuesday unanimously agreed to name the airport in Hisar as Maharaja Agrasen Airport.Haryana deputy chief minister Dushyant Singh Chautala moved a resolution in the assembly in this connection which the members present in the House backed unanimously. As per the resolution, the Union ministry of civil aviation will be requested to designate the civil airport of Hisar as Maharaja Agrasen Airport, Hisar.Meanwhile, the deputy CM informed the House that a 9km-long elevated road will be constructed in Hisar on the main Delhi road.He said a detailed project report (DPR) of the proposed elevated road is being prepared and the work will start as soon as the DPR is finalised in 2022.Encroachment on HSVP landAbout 663 acre land of the Haryana Shahri Vikas Pradhikaran (HSVP) in different sectors of Gurugram is under encroachment, agriculture and farmers’ welfare minister JP Dalal informed the House on Tuesday.As Dalal was responding to a question of Rakesh Daultabad about HSVP land encroached upon in Gurugram, speaker Gian Chand Gupta said he is also aware of how the encroachment on the HSVP land has been on the rise and asked the minister to take some effective steps.Dalal said the responsibility of the officer concerned will be fixed if there is encroachment in the area under his supervision. The officer concerned will have to submit a report every month that no encroachment has taken place in the area, Dalal said.The minister said of the total 663 acre encroached land of the HSVP in Gurugram, cases are pending in various courts related to 466 acre while the remaining 197 acre has been encroached upon.He said so far, 172 acre land has been freed from encroachment. He said after removing all encroachments, the HSVP will prepare a plan to auction that land.Covid vaccinationHaryana health minister Anil Vij said till December 16, at least 92% people (above 60 years) have received the first dose, while 69% have received both the doses.In the 45-60 year age bracket, 88% people were administered the first dose and 61% both the shots.He said 90% population between 18 to 44 years have been administered the first dose and 49% second dose as well.‘False propaganda regarding shifting of milk plant’Haryana cooperation minister Banwari Lal said a false propaganda is being circulated regarding shifting of a milk plant from Ballabhgarh to Bawal. He said neither the plant nor the staff working in it will be shifted from Ballabhgarh.The matter of shifting this plant out of the city on demand of people is under consideration and in future, if the land is identified around Ballabhgarh then that proposal will be considered, he said. As far as the matter of setting up of Bawal milk plant is concerned, it is under consideration, said an official spokesperson quoting the minister.The minister reiterated that there is no proposal regarding shifting Ballabhgarh milk plant to Bawal or Rewari.‘Over 25 lakh students are studying in govt schools’Haryana education minister Kanwar Pal said at present, 53,68,539 students are studying in schools across state. While 25,30,868 students are studying in government schools, 28,37,671 are in private schools.He said there are 24,867 schools in state (14,473 government and 10,394 private) including 137 Sanskriti Senior Secondary Schools.The minister assured the House that the students will not have to suffer academically due to shortage of teachers and that the vacant posts will be filled at the earliest.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/haryana-vidhan-sabha-congress-stages-walkout-over-msp-issue-101640115273694.html
22-12-2021||Chandigarh||Opposition draws attention towards fertiliser shortage in Haryana||The Opposition in Haryana assembly on Tuesday drew attention of the state government towards the shortage of di-ammonium phosphate (DAP), a kind of fertiliser, and urea which is affecting rabi-sowing in the state.Speaking on a calling-attention notice on the third day of the winter session, Congress MLA Jagbir Singh Malik said while the government keeps on insisting that there is no shortage of DAP and urea yet, it is surprising that the fertiliser is distributed with the help of cops and through police stations.Tosham MLA Kiran Choudhry said farmers can be seen queued up since morning to get DAP supplies. The government is in denial over shortage of DAP.Congress’ Kalanwali MLA Shishpal Singh Keharwala said the government is denying DAP shortage the same way it denied oxygen shortage during the second wave of the Covid-19 pandemic.Responding to the notice, state agriculture minister JP Dalal said there is no shortage of fertilisers in state. “For sowing of wheat and mustard, the state government has sufficient quantity of fertilisers available. Till now, about 6.93 lakh metric tonne (MT) urea, 2.82 lakh metric tonne DAP, more than 1 lakh tonne SSP, and more than 41,000 NPK is available, of which, 6.24 lakh MT urea, 2.60 lakh MT DAP, 79,000 MT SSP, and 38,661 MT NPK have been provided to farmers,” Dalal said.The minister said strict action has been taken against black marketing of fertilisers. He said in 22 districts, 61 complaints were received, 157 show-cause notices were issued, 88 licenses were suspended, and 20 FIRs were registered. Besides this, 1,685 teams have conducted continuous raids to curb black marketing.Dalal said consumption of DAP in the last rabi season was 2.58 lakh MT whereas during the current season, 2.57 lakh MT has been made available up to December 15, which is at par with last year’s consumption.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/opposition-draws-attention-towards-fertiliser-shortage-in-haryana-101640115033611.html
22-12-2021||Other||Case against Majithia not tenable in court: Capt||Rajpura Former Punjab chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh has said that the drugs case registered against Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) leader Bikram Singh Majithia, would not stand legal scrutiny, as the government had not followed the due process of law. To a pointed query, he retorted by saying that it was not clear that on what basis had the government registered the case against Majithia, since the report on drug trafficking was still lying with the Punjab and Haryana high court in a sealed cover.“After all, there is rule of law in the country and I am sure it will not stand legal scrutiny in a court of law,” he said, adding, “Just because you don’t like someone, you can’t put him behind bars.”‘No justification for lynching’On the lynching incidents that followed the two sacrilege bids, the former CM condemned the killings. “The accused should have been handed over to the police,” he said, in town to attend a meeting of his party, the Punjab Lok Congress. At the meeting, senior Congress leader Jagdish Kumar Jagga joined Amarinder’s party. “No civilised society can and should approve of such killings,” he added, when asked for his view on the lynching incidents, adding, “Overall, there is no justification for mob lynching, whatsoever.”On the issue of people’s anger boiling over due to the delay in justice in Behbal Kalan sacrilege case, Capt said, “My government had pursued the case from Day 1. First, the state had to fight a long legal battle to get back the inquiry from the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI). Investigation then began and 22 persons, including police officials and civilians, were arrested. They are out on bail now.”He added that national security and the welfare of Punjab was on the top of his priorities, and hoped that next PLC-BJP government will be voted to power and set thins right. Amarinder also thanked the BJP leadership, Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Union home minister Amit Shah, in particular, for their whole-hearted support for Punjab. On complaints of harassment, arm-twisting, intimidation and registration of false cases at the behest of the local MLA, Capt Amarinder said, he will ensure that he (the MLA) was held accountable soon. “My first priority is national security and good governance,” he added. 
22-12-2021||Chandigarh||Yamunanagar teacher dies a day after villagers tag him a drunkard||A day after a few residents of Silli Kalan village of Yamunanagar’s Radaur block protested against the headmaster of an elementary middle school, claiming him to be a drunkard, the teacher, Vikram Kumar, was reported dead on Tuesday.In the medical examination conducted in the presence of police, no alcohol consumption was detected. His death was confirmed by block education officer (BEO) of Radaur, Dharmender Singh.“We received a message from his father in the morning that he had died due to heart failure after reaching his home in Kurukshetra. We are yet to receive anything in writing from the family and will proceed based on the response,” Singh said.The deceased’s family could not be reached for a comment.On Monday, high drama erupted in the school after a group of villagers gathered and allegedly got involved into a scuffle with the teacher.Later, police and education department officials reached to calm the situation and Vikram was taken for medical test and further investigation, as demanded by the villagers.Radaur police station in-charge, sub-inspector Sukhwinder Singh said, “There was no alcohol consumption found in the medical reports received in the evening and he was let go. We have not received any intimation about his death so far.”“An alumnus of the school had gone to Vikram seeking a certificate, on which the teacher had asked him to come after a few days as it will take some time to find it in the old records. Following this, some villagers gathered and the teacher was tortured. He must have taken the insult to heart,” a villager said, not wishing to be named.District elementary education officer Ramdiya Gagat said he will gather information on the incident.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/yamunanagar-teacher-dies-a-day-after-villagers-tag-him-a-drunkard-101640114613544.html
22-12-2021||Chandigarh||Panipat man held for minor murder||A week after the mutilated body of a seven-year-old girl was recovered from a deserted place in her village, police have arrested the accused.Panipat superintendent of police (SP) Shashank Kumar Sawan said accused Praveen belonged to the victim’s village and during interrogation, he admitted to murder of the seven-year-old on December 12.The SP said the accused had lured the girl on pretext of buying sweets and taken her to a deserted place on the outskirts of the village.The accused tried to rape her but the girl started screaming so, he hit her on the head with a brick and strangled her. He dumped her body and fled, the SP said.The SP had announced a reward of ₹50,000 for any information on the accused and later increased it to ₹2 lakh. The SP had also formed a special investigation team under ASP Samalkha Pooja Vashisht and the accused was arrested.Police said the accused was booked for murder, attempt to rape and kidnapping under the IPC and under the POCSO Act. He will be produced in court for stringent punishment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/panipat-man-held-for-minor-murder-101640114435179.html
22-12-2021||Lucknow||Omicron scare: Christmas, New Year eve events to be curtailed at many places in Lucknow||LUCKNOW With just a few days to go for Christmas and New Year, the scare of Covid’s Omicron variant has cast a shadow on celebrations.While many churches in the city have restricted the midnight mass for invitees only, Christmas celebrations have been called off at other public places to avoid mass gatherings. Most of the clubs and hotels have also decided not to organise New Year bash, said officials. However, malls and a few hotels will to go ahead with restricted celebrations in compliance with Covid protocols.“In view of the situation, a limited number of people, mainly the Parish members, will participate in the Midnight Holy Mass and also in the day services on December 25,” said Fr Donald HR De Souza, chancellor and spokesperson, Catholic Diocese of Lucknow.He said, “At St Joseph’s Cathedral, passes were issued to members for the mass, which will be held in staggered timings to restrict the numbers. A few churches are encouraging people to attend virtual prayer services.”Sandeep Das, honorary secretary, Lucknow Golf Club, said: “Kids are yet to be vaccinated, so we have decided to call off Christmas and New Year celebrations keeping in mind the safety of members and their families.”“No public event will be organised on Christmas and New Year eve. We cannot take chances with our health,” said Pramod Chaturvedi of Hotel Clarks Avadh.“We have decided to give importance to the health and safety of people. That’s why we are not going to organize any programmes on Christmas and New Year eve this year,” said Shabahat Hussain of Hotel Taj. Bagwati Pant, general manager, The Centrum, “No large scale celebrations have been planned for Christmas and New Year. It will be a miniscule gathering only in our restaurant. Covid protocols will be followed. We will limit the number of guests, as per the directives from the government and allow entry of guests after thorough screening at various check points.”Lucknow commissioner of police (CP) DK Thakur said police officials had been issued stern directives to curb Christmas and New Year revelry. “Anyone violating Covid protocol would be penalised. Check posts and barricades will be set up on roads, especially near bars, clubs and lounges, to check people who may be driving in an inebriated state.” He said security at malls and other crowded places would be tightened to avert untoward incidents.The CP said extra police force will be deployed in the east and the north regions of the city that house the maximum number of clubs, lounges and malls. “The situation is being monitored round the clock to ensure Covid appropriate behaviour on important days like Christmas and New Year eve. We have also deputed a team of doctors and other staff at Integrated Covid Control and Command Centre to keep a watch over the situation. Red zones have been marked to ensure better implementation of Covid guidelines. The administration will issue orders accordingly, in case of any untoward situation. As of now, previous advisories of the state government would be followed at public and private places. People are requested to follow strict Covid guidelines and maintain social distancing,” said divisional commissioner Ranjan Kumar.Senior centre director, Phoenix group, Sanjeev Sarin said, “We believe in safety first mantra for our customers and hence have invested in latest technology adoptions like artificial Intelligence through camera to check crowd density inside the mall, UV rays-enabled baggage scanners at all entry and exit points to disinfect bags and accessories of visitors, automated sanitiser dispensers and Covid warriors team to ensure all Covid guidelines are followed in the mall,”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/omicron-scare-christmas-new-year-eve-events-to-be-curtailed-at-many-places-in-lucknow-101640114433927.html
22-12-2021||Chandigarh||Inmates of Kurukshetra jail to run in-house radio station||A group of inmates of the Kurukshetra district jail will be given training as radio jockey to run an in-house radio station from the jail premises.As per information, the jail authorities, in collaboration with ‘Tinka Tinka Foundation’, has launched the Tinka Jail Radio project. Now, an audition of the interested inmates will be done to identify the group to run the radio station.According to jail superintendent Somnath Jagat, the decision to set up a radio station in the jail has been taken and the audition of inmates will start soon.He said there are 670 inmates in the jail, including 32 women. A group of inmates will be finalised by founder of ‘Tinka Tinka Foundation’ Dr Vartika Nanda. She said besides some RJs, they will also require some technical experts to run the studio and after audition, selected inmates will be given proper training.She said the radio station will be made operational in January next year. About the content of the programmes, she said every jail has a different atmosphere as Kurukshetra has historical importance and also known as the land of Gita, the content of the radio programmes will also aware the inmates about the historical importance of Kurukshetra.Panipat district jail had become the first jail in state to have a radio station operated by inmates for inmates in January this year. Later, the radio stations were also set up in six more district jails.Officials said each jail barrack will have one speaker and the radio will be broadcasted for one hour every day. Nanda said Tihar jail was the first to start such a radio station in 2013 and later, the foundation had started a station in Agra jail in July 2019.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/inmates-of-kurukshetra-jail-to-run-in-house-radio-station-101640114373733.html
22-12-2021||Other||3 dead, at least 40 injured in fire at IOC refinery in West Bengal’s Haldia||(PLAYBACK) HT Correspondent KolkataThree Indian Oil Corporation (IOC) employees were killed and at least 40 were injured on Tuesday afternoon when a pipeline inside the company’s refinery at Haldia in Bengal’s East Midnapore district caught fire. The incident happened after the successful completion of a drill, an IOC official said on condition of anonymity. “An official inquiry will be conducted to ascertain the cause of the fire,” he added.The injured employees were admitted to local hospitals from where 16 men were rushed to a hospital in Kolkata on Tuesday evening. The state police set up a green corridor so that the ambulances could reach Kolkata without having to stop at traffic signals along the 118-kilometre route. West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee expressed anguish over the incident.“Deeply anguished by the fire in IOC, Haldia. Three precious lives were lost and my thoughts are with the bereaved families in this hour of grief. Those injured are being brought to Kolkata through a green corridor. GoWB will extend all assistance to ensure their speedy recovery,” Banerjee tweeted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/3-dead-at-least-40-injured-in-fire-at-ioc-refinery-in-west-bengal-s-haldia-101640114194024.html
22-12-2021||Chandigarh||HPSC officer agrees to give voice sample||The then Haryana Public Service Commission (HPSC) deputy secretary Anil Nagar, who was arrested for allegedly tampering with marks of candidates of dental surgeon exam, has agreed to give voice samples.During the last hearing, the other two accused, Naveen and Ashwani, had stated that they have no objection in giving their voice samples.However, counsel for accused Anil Naggar had requested adjournment for filing reply to the applications for taking specimen signatures and voice samples of the accused.On Tuesday, the accused has agreed to give samples. The case is now listed for December 24. The officer has been dismissed from the services over corruption charges.Nagar, along with two others, was arrested for tampering with marks of candidates of dental surgeon exam. The others arrested are Ashwani Sharma, of Jhajjar, and Naveen Kumar, of Bhiwani. The vigilance has made recoveries of ₹3.60 crore in the case.The vigilance team had seized 22 original exam sheets of the preliminary HCS exam, 2021, its carbon copies and 14 original examination sheets of dental surgeon examination, 2021. The investigation so far points to Nagar’s involvement in both exams.Nagar is a 2016-batch officer, who was posted as the HPSC deputy secretary in March 2021. Earlier, he was posted as joint director, administration, secondary education, Haryana, and deputy secretary to the government, Haryana, school education department.The FIR was registered on November 17, after Naveen Kumar, a government employee, was caught red-handed while accepting ₹20 lakh.Based on his confession and other evidence, the vigilance team had arrested Ashwani Sharma and seized ₹1.07 crore during a search at his house.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/hpsc-officer-agrees-to-give-voice-sample-101640114133330.html
22-12-2021||Chandigarh||Rice fortification: Procurement agencies asks food and supplies dept to follow central guidelines||Two Haryana government agencies involvement in the procurement of fortified rice kernels (FRK) have raised a red flag citing delays by five companies empanelled by the Haryana food, civil supplies and consumer affairs department in supplying the fortified rice kernels.This comes close on the heels of allegations of anomalies and cartelisation in allotment of tenders for supply of FRK to three Maharashtra-based companies. The allegations were levelled by Haryana FRK Manufacturers’ Association.Under the central government’s fortification drive, rice fortified with micronutrients will be made available at ration shops for mid-day meal and every scheme by 2024. Rice fortification, a process of adding micronutrients such as iron, folic acid and Vitamin B12, is aimed at combating anaemia due to malnutrition and is regarded as an effective and preventive measure to address the nutrition problem.The two state agencies – HAFED and Haryana State Warehousing Corporation (HSWC), while quoting the guidelines of the central government have written to the director general of Haryana food, civil supplies and consumer affairs department, asking it to allow rice millers to take FRK from all FRK manufacturers holding Food Safety and Standards Authority of India (FSSAI) license instead of restricting them to obtain supply from of FRK from empanelled manufacturers.Director general of Haryana food, civil supplies and consumer affairs department, Vijay Dahiya, however, said HAFED has been supplied about 600 metric tonne (MT) FRK and HSWC has been supplied about 380 MT.“Further, 13,093 MT fortified CMR has been supplied by the millers of our department, HAFED and HSWC till date. We are taking up the matter with HAFED,” he said.‘Non-delivery viewed seriously by Centre’However, a December 20 communication from HAFED said most district managers have informed that the shortlisted firms for the supply of FRK have not supplied even a single bag of FRK to rice mills allotted to HAFED due to which delivery of custom milled rice (CMR) is suffering badly.The Haryana State Warehousing Corporation (HSWC), in a December 17 communication to the food, civil supplies and consumer affairs department, said the central government is very particular regarding procurement of fortified rice in a time-bound manner to meet the requirement of targeted customers.“The present status of non-delivery of fortified rice has been viewed seriously by the Union ministry of consumer affairs, food and public distribution. The Union ministry had, on November 16, clarified that there is no need to separately empanel FRK manufacturers by the state government. Instead, all FSSAI license holders should be asked for FRK supplies,” the communication said.‘Delay by empanelled manufacturers hampering delivery’The HSWC further said five FRK manufacturers empanelled by the Haryana food, civil supplies and consumer affairs department for supply of FRK to all procuring agencies in the state were not supplying FRK to the state warehousing corporation as per its requirement.“This has seriously hampered the delivery of fortified rice to the Food Corporation of India (FCI). There is a possibility of not achieving the target of FRK delivery within the given time frame,” the HSWC said.The corporation also wrote that non-supply by empanelled manufacturers is causing severe resentment among the rice millers as they will not be able to achieve the month-wise schedule of the CMR delivery and may have to pay holding charges due to the delays.“Under the circumstances, rice millers should be given liberty to take FRK from all FSSAI licensed manufacturers at the rate of their choice but not above ₹59.85 per kg plus taxes finalised by the Haryana food, civil supplies and consumer affairs department so that pace of supply is accelerated and the target of delivery of 3.78 lakh metric tonne is achieved by the HSWC within the given time frame,” the communication said.
22-12-2021||Other||Kejriwal promises to get Goa rid of ‘3rd class politicians’||The Aam Aadmi Party will offer a clean government and put an end to the politics of defections in Goa, AAP national chief and Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal announced in Goa on Tuesday. Addressing his first public rally in the state at the capital city of Panaji, Kejriwal said, “Goa is a first-class state with 3rd class politicians” and deserves much better. “Goa deserves much better politicians. Goa got liberation in 1961 in the last 60 years, 27 years were ruled by Congress, 15 by BJP and 15 by MGP. Besides corruption, have they given you anything? Did they build hospitals and schools? They are jumping from party to party. After winning, they are selling candidates and they will come back and sit back in the market to sell MLAs. In five years we did a miracle in Delhi. Do you want to change this or not?” Kejriwal asked the gathering. The AAP is making its second attempt at contesting elections in the state having failed to win any seats the previous time in 2017. The party has brought in several other leaders including most recently a BJP MLA Alina Saldanha who resigned from the BJP and joined the AAP. “I don’t understand politics and Goa’s politics I don’t understand at all. Yesterday I went out and boarded a plane. Congress had three MLAs. When I got down there were two. One went away,” he said. “I’m not here to do politics. I’m here with a plan for the development of Goa. Goa model of development. I have met the people of Goa and brought a plan based on this,” he added. The Delhi chief minister also reiterated his promises of free, uninterrupted electricity, free water, doles for the unemployed and the mining-affected and free pilgrimages.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/kejriwal-promises-to-get-goa-rid-of-3rd-class-politicians-101640113714091.html
22-12-2021||Lucknow||Lucknow: Two arrested for kidnap and murder of property dealer||Lucknow With the arrest of two persons, Lucknow police on Tuesday claimed to have solved the murder of a local BJP leader’s brother whose body was found in a pit alongside the under-construction outer ring road near Harikanshgadi village under Mohanlalganj police station limits on last Friday. The murder was a fallout of a monetary dispute with the two accused, police officials said. The deceased Mukesh Singh, who is younger brother of BJP leader from Mohanlalganj Vinod Singh, had gone missing on Thursday when he left his home on a motorcycle to pick his son from school in Gopalkheda village and later his body was found on Friday. Mukesh Singh’s another brother Subodh Singh had lodged an FIR of murder and kidnapping against unidentified persons with Mohanlalganj police station on Saturday. Sharing further details, Lucknow joint commissioner of police (JCP), crime, Neelabja Chowdhury informed media that two persons were identified as Heera Singh and Ankur Pal, both residents of Gopal Kheda from where the victim had gone missing. He said the duo was zeroed in on the basis of their mobile call details and location, and interrogation about the incident. In a press note, the Lucknow police stated that the two accused revealed during interrogation that they murdered Mukesh Singh over ₹3.99 lakh loan that the latter had to pay to them. The two accused kidnapped Mukesh in a car and strangulated him using a clutch wire. They later fled after dumping his body on a deserted stretch near outer ring road, it added. Police said that they had recovered the clutch wire and the car used in the crime and carrying out its forensic examination. “The two accused have been sent to jail after producing them in a competent court under charges of murder, kidnapping and concealment of crime,” the police official said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/lucknow-two-arrested-for-kidnap-and-murder-of-property-dealer-101640113475963.html
22-12-2021||Other||Highways, ‘i’ ways to create more opportunities for youths in UP: Union minister Chandrashekhar||VARANASI Union minister of state for electronics and IT, skill development and entrepreneurship, Rajiv Chandrashekhar, on Tuesday said many companies are now ready to invest in Uttar Pradesh and the state is moving fast in the field of technology. Chandrashekhar was speaking after the inauguration of an Aadhaar Seva Kendra (ASK) in Varanasi through video conferencing. This centre has the capacity to provide Aadhaar related services to 500 residents per day. “Due to the improvements in the overall law and order, infrastructure, including road and air connectivity with new highways and airports coming up, UP is becoming a preferred destination for investments. Vast opportunity lies ahead for the youth as Digital Uttar Pradesh looks to expand internet coverage giving impetus to its Digital Economy,” the Union minister said. “The combination of highways and ‘i’ ways will create tremendous opportunities for the youth of Uttar Pradesh turning the state into an investment Hub,” he added. He congratulated everyone and assured that more such ASKs would be opened in UP in the near future to ensure ease of living to the residents. With 4 more Aadhaar Seva Kendras opening today at Gonda, Varanasi, Saharanpur and Moradbad, Rajeev Chandrasekhar assured the citizens of UP that the march towards Digital Uttar Pradesh would be swifter than before. “Our Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s dream is to make the lives of common people easier through the use of technology and Aadhaar is an important step in this direction. Due to the use of Aadhaar, Direct Benefit Transfer (DBT) has become corruption-free,” the minister said.Talking about the Digital India campaign, Chandrashekhar said, at the time of Corona pandemic, people’s lives could have been very difficult if we had not developed in the field of technology. On the occasion, Ajay Prakash Sawhney, secretary, ministry of electronics and information technology, said that till now 63 Aadhaar Seva Kendras had been established and started functioning in the state. He said that as of now more than 57,000 Aadhaar centers were functioning across the country. Saurabh Garg, CEO, Unique Identification Authority of India said, “The authority is moving towards making Aadhaar services easy for citizens under which we are focusing on online Aadhaar updation services, where residents can update their Aadhaar, using the mobile app and also avail the service on UIDAI’s self-service update portal. The facility of Aadhaar enrollment of children is also being provided in hospitals.”Mayor of Varanasi Mridula Jaiswal said that all the facilities related to Aadhaar were available at the Aadhaar Seva Kendra. With agency inputs||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/highways-i-ways-to-create-more-opportunities-for-youths-in-up-union-minister-chandrashekhar-101640112993485.html
22-12-2021||Lucknow||Life of all school buses in UP to be capped at 15 yrs||Lucknow: The life of all school buses in Uttar Pradesh may be capped at 15 years in a move that may come as a relief to transporters who are plying buses to ferry school children, as per people in the know of things. The state government, according to them, is all set to make an amendment in this regard, besides making some other amendments to the School Bus Rules, 2019 very soon for greater safety of school children who travel by buses. “The proposed amendments will be put before the Cabinet within a week or two,” they said. One amendment proposal seeks to fix the age limit for all school buses at 15 years after which they would not be deemed fit to ply on the road. The present rules cap life of buses owned and operated by schools (educational institutions) at 15 years and those that are owned by individuals/private operators and used to transport school children on a contract permit, at 10 years. “The idea behind keeping lower age limit for school buses owned by those other than school managements was that such buses become unfit sooner because they ply more than school-owned buses that operate only for the limited purpose of ferrying children,” said a senior transport official. “But transporters had been demanding an increase in the school bus age limit for long,” he added. The second amendment proposal is for increasing the number of fire extinguisher cylinders to two from one in school buses. Under the current rules, each school bus is supposed to have one 5kg cylinder installed inside it. “There is a proposal for installing two such cylinders of 2 kg each at two different places in every school bus for greater safety,” the official said. The government will also adopt Automotive Industry Standards (AIS) for windows and gates of school buses through yet another amendment and also insert a fresh provision, allowing school buses to carry children one and a half time their seating capacity . “As per a Supreme Court ruling, a school bus can ferry children up to one and a half times its seating capacity, considering the fact that many children travelling in a school bus may be less than 12 years and now we are putting this provision in school bus rules also for clarity,” the official said. He said school buses rules were framed and notified in 2019 and some amendments were being made after a lot of discussion with stakeholders. 
22-12-2021||Other||Dance teacher held for raping, blackmailing minor girls in Kanpur||Kanpur: A dance teacher was arrested here on Tuesday on charges of allegedly raping minor girls and extorting money from them by threatening to make their objectionable videos viral on the internet, said police officials. “We have found objectionable videos of 14 girls and thousands of photographs of other girls from his mobile phone and computer, which have been seized. All the girls whose videos were found were students of a leading dance school in Kanpur,” said a police official. Station house officer (SHO) of Govind Nagar, Rohit Tiwari said, “The accused Aryan Soni, a resident of F Block Dabauli, used to rape the minor and teenage girls, and make videos of the criminal act to blackmail them. He was arrested after one 14-year-old rape victim transferred ₹19,000 from the bank account of her mother to the account of the instructor’s friend.” The victim’s mother had filed a fraud case with the cyber cell of Kanpur police and the investigation led the police to the instructor and his criminal act. An FIR against him for rape and fraud under relevant sections of the IT Act were added later. Two other girls, who were also raped by the dance teacher, told police that they were sexually exploited almost on a daily basis in the dance school. “When some girls tried to quit, they were threatened that their recorded videos will be made viral on the internet,” said the police. Deputy Commissioner of Police (DCP), Kanpur South, Raveena Tyagi said, “The police are investigating the matter and more cases will be filed if the victims or their families come forward with their complaints.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/dance-teacher-held-for-raping-blackmailing-minor-girls-in-kanpur-101640112213435.html
22-12-2021||Other||‘Partners’ of home services company protest outside its gate in Gurugram||Over 50 ‘partners’ of Urban Company, the web-based platform that provides home services, are protesting outside the company headquarters in Udyog Vihar Phase 3 for the past two days against its proposed subscription system which, they claim, will adversely impact their income and working hours. The protesters, majority of whom are women who work as beauticians, said that they came on Monday to discuss the matter with the company but their concerns were not heard by the management. So, they decided to sit on indefinite protest till the matter is resolved, the protesters said. Sitting outside the company gate on a freezing evening, Seema Singh, a Delhi resident who has been working with the company for the past four years, said that the web-based platform is planning to introduce a subscription system whereby ₹3,000 will be charged from prime partners and ₹2,000 will be charged from classic partners under the garb of ‘minimum guarantee’ plan. “Why should we be forced to pay money to the company to get work. We closed our salons and shops to work flexibly and now we are being asked to pay for getting the same work. We want the previous system with no such subscriptions,” said Singh, who also got a legal notice from the company on Tuesday. The protesters claimed that workers from across Delhi-NCR are supporting them. “All the workers want is a fair relationship, with both sides making money, but this is not happening. The things are getting worse, particularly after the Covid-19 pandemic,” said a protester, who wished anonymity. Gunjan Choudhary, another partner, said that this entire subscription model is skewed heavily in favour of the company and would make life very difficult for the salon partners. “We are paying 25 to 30% of our earnings as commission to the company. We are buying products from the company, despite that the management is not ready to listen to our problems,” she said. The protesting women also said that workers in ‘Flexi’ category are denied work from Monday to Thursday. Rikta Kumaraswamy, NCR coordinator, All India Gig Workers Union, said that the company is also asking better performing partners to provide 10% discount from their own income to customers. “The partners use their skills to earn, spend on commuting, and buy products of the company, but they are being fleeced. This matter must be probed by the labour department,” she said. Usha Saroha, a city-based trade union activist, alleged that women on protest were denied access to washrooms by the company on Tuesday and they were also being intimidated. “We are with the workers and will continue the protest till justice is meted out,” she said.Representatives of the Urban Company did not reply to phone calls, messages and emails from HT seeking a response on the matter. The protesting partners also revealed that the company management has issued a legal notice to four employees. The notice, a copy of which is with HT, states “That the plaintiff premises in Gurugram are under threat of violence and the plaintiff is deeply concerned that once again a mass mob may gather. Given the extent of illegal activities by the defendants and other unknown accomplices this may result in riots at the premises and in other parts of Gurugram.”In view of the emerging situation, the company has also sought appropriate directions from the court seeking police assistance to disperse the protesters from the premises. “We have received this legal notice and we will take appropriate steps,” said Singh. 
22-12-2021||Lucknow||Beneficiaries tell PM how govt schemes changed their lives||PRAYAGRAJ Around two dozen women beneficiaries interacted with Prime Minister Narendra Modi during the Mahila Sashaktikaran Sammelan at Parade Ground in Prayagraj on Tuesday and conveyed their experiences about how their lives changed after becoming members of self-help groups in their villages under various welfare schemes launched by the government. “I was honoured when Modiji approached us. He not only asked us about our experiences but also motivated us to do better in our lives and also make efforts to change lives of those around us,” said Yashoda of Sultanpur, a newly appointed banking correspondent-Sakhi. “Earlier, people in the village knew me because of my husband and father-in-law. But now I have an identity of my own. I told Modiji how I feel empowered and how people approach me for help,” said Reema Maurya, BC-Sakhi of Pratapagrah. Poonam of Gautam Buddh Nagar, who is also a BC Sakhi, said people in her village now call her ‘Bank Didi’. Under the BC Sakhi scheme, the government had decided to deploy banking correspondent women in rural areas so that people of rural areas do not face any problem in doing money transactions and at the same time these women could also get certain employment.“The scheme is bringing a lot of change in our lives. Not only women, men also approach us for their work. Though the commission is less than expected, we are getting the honour that we deserved,” shared Poonam. Beneficiaries of Kanya Sumangala Yojna also shared similar views. Among others who got a chance to meet the PM was Ishika Verma, 14, one of the beneficiaries of Kanya Sumangala Yojna, who lost her father a few years ago and had come to attend the event with her mother. “I had a chance to meet the PM and even got photographs clicked with him and the chief minister,” said Palak Mishra, 13, of Pratapgarh. “The PM asked how I was doing in studies and if I was facing any difficulties. He even asked about my family,” said Shreya Tripathi, a student from Govindpur locality.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/beneficiaries-tell-pm-how-govt-schemes-changed-their-lives-101640111853507.html
22-12-2021||Noida||Yeida changes rules for new industrial plot allotments to maintain ‘transparency’||The Yamuna Expressway industrial development authority (Yeida) has changed the rules for new industrial plot allotments, in a bid to maintain transparency, said officials on Tuesday.On December 15 this year, the Yeida launched an industrial plot scheme (not named), for which the allotment process is scheduled to begin around February next year, after interested parties submit their applications till the process begins.Arun Vir Singh, chief executive officer (CEO) of Yeida, has decided to carry out the allotment process through a lucky draw, rather than holding an interview, with an aim to maintain full accountability and transparency, said the officials.“We have decided to allot these plots through a lucky draw so that the job can be done with full accountability and transparency, leaving no scope for discretion. We have decided to organise the lucky draw and live telecast the procedures... After Prime Minister Narendra Modi laid the foundation stone of the Noida international airport in Jewar, the demand for these plots have increased manifold,” said Singh.The Yeida has 67 plots within the range of ₹4,000 square metres, and six plots for a cost of above ₹4,000 square metres... The old rule for allotting smaller plots within the range of ₹4,000 square metres through a lucky draw is still in place, but that of allotting bigger sized industrial plots through a lucky draw has changed after the increase in the number of applications against one plot.“There were hardly one or two applicants for bigger sized plots earlier. It was easy to take an interview of the applicant(s), after scrutinising the documents. But now, inquiries against these six plots for a cost of above ₹4,000 square metres are such that we are expecting a large number of applicants, and selecting one out of all the applicants would not be easy. A lucky draw will be the best way to end discretion in decision making,” said Singh.The Yeida said that lucky draws for allotment of bigger plots will continue in the future, too. It is likely to bring another industrial plot scheme in Sector 10, just near the airport, where the plots will be allotted through a lucky draw. 
22-12-2021||Noida||Action against Gautam Budh Nagar education officer accused of harassing teachers||The basic education department of the Uttar Pradesh government has ordered disciplinary proceedings against basic education officer (BSA) of Gautam Budh Nagar Dharmendra Saxena following complaints from government school teachers in the district, who have accused him of mental harassment. According to the order dated December 13, following serious complaints of financial and mental harassment faced by government school teachers working in the district, a committee was constituted under the basic education department in September and a preliminary inquiry report was submitted to the government on October 12. “The inquiry report revealed that the BSA first rejected the child care leave of a female teacher without any reason and approved it later. Saxena has also been found guilty of mentally harassing teachers in name of surprise inspection,” the order states. It further says that in view of being found guilty of irregularities and inappropriate behaviour, disciplinary proceedings have been initiated against the BSA. “It has been decided to designate the Divisional Joint Director of Education, Meerut Division, as ex-officio inquiry officer for the completion of the said disciplinary proceedings,” said the order by the secretary of the basic education department, Anamika Singh. The BSA has been ordered to cooperate with the investigation, so that if found guilty, appropriate action can be taken at the earliest.Saxena refuted the allegations. “All allegations levelled against me are baseless. In the investigation that was carried out between September and October this year, I had cooperated with the officials and also proved the allegations wrong. Still, I have been found guilty. This is a conspiracy of the teachers against me. I am sure the inquiry report will acquit me from the allegations,” said the basic education officer. 
22-12-2021||Delhi||Delhi: Man found dead at GK-1 home was not murdered, say police||A day after a 36-year-old man was found dead at his Greater Kailash flat, police said that according to the autopsy surgeon, he was not smothered to death. They added the possible reason for his death could be 70-80% heart blockage, which may have been caused by substance abuse.The deceased man, identified as Rahul Thakur, was found dead at home by his landlord, who informed the police. Soon after, a police team rushed to the spot and took the man to the hospital, where he was formally declared dead on arrival.“After the post-mortem examination, the autopsy surgeon informed us verbally that there was no evidence of smothering. Further, the possible reason for death could be due to 70-80% heart blockage, which could have been due to substance abuse. The final report is expected in two or three days. No arrests have been made yet. There is no official confirmation from doctors about the post-mortem examination. All things will be clear once the report is received. All the people the deceased was in touch with are being interrogated to get clarity about the possible sequence of events on that day,” DCP (south) Benita Mary Jaiker said.Thakur had been living at the GK house with his mother, but she was not home at the time of the incident, police said. Police said Thakur was from Jammu & Kashmir and worked at the Delhi Haat Art Gallery. “He had rented the house just one month ago and his mother had gone to their hometown in J&K a few days ago. We found three mobile phones in the house as well. We are enquiring into the matter,” the DCP said on Monday.Another police officer, who did not wish to be named, said that they scanned CCTV camera footage from the vicinity and saw a person entering Thakur’s house with him and leaving after some time. He was also one of the few people questioned after the incident. Police said on Monday that they registered a case of murder after the incident was reported.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-man-found-dead-at-gk-1-home-was-not-murdered-say-police-101640110233085.html
22-12-2021||Delhi||Cold wave persists in Delhi, but IMD says mercury may rise soon||Parts of the national capital recorded cold wave conditions for the third consecutive day on Tuesday, with Safdarjung, Delhi’s base observatory, recording a minimum of 4 degrees Celsius (°C) – four notches below normal. Mercury dipped even further at Ayanagar and Lodhi Road weather stations, dropping down to 3.8°C and 3.7°C, respectively. Delhi had recorded its coldest morning of the season so far on Monday, when Safdarjung recorded a low of 3.2°C. According to the India Meteorological Department (IMD), the impact of three successive active western disturbances may cause cold wave conditions to abate across northern India from Wednesday onwards, with the minimum temperature expected to rise to 7°C in Delhi by Thursday. IMD has also forecast a spell of rain on December 27. “We had been forecasting that the spell between December 18 and 21 will be the most severe so far this winter season and cold wave conditions will come to an end due to a series of western disturbances. The western disturbance on December 22 will be feeble and may raise minimum and maximum temperatures by a degree or so. We will then see another weak western disturbance from December 24 onwards which could lead to cloudy skies over Delhi. However, a third western disturbance from December 26 onwards will be the most active and is likely to bring rain to Delhi on December 27,” said R.K Jenamani, scientist at IMD. On Tuesday, Delhi’s saw a maximum temperature of 22.4°C, a degree above normal. This is expected to touch 23°C by Wednesday and 24°C on Thursday, but Jenamani said it could drop sharply from December 26-28. “The minimum temperature will start rising and could touch 10°C by December 27, but rain and cloudy conditions could lead to a cold day. The third western disturbance is likely to influence Delhi-NCR from December 26-29,” he addedThe weather department declares a cold day if the maximum temperature is 4.5 degrees below normal. It announces a cold wave if the day’s low is either 4.5 degrees below normal, or below 4°C . IMD said the criteria for a cold wave was satisfied at Lodhi road, Safdarjung and Ayanagar stations on Tuesday as per the IMD. IMD has predicted shallow fog in the early hours of Wednesday, with the minimum and maximum temperatures hovering between 5°C and 23°C. Last December, the lowest minimum recorded during the month was 3.3°C -- recorded on the last day of the month. In 2019, it fell down to 2.4°C on December 28, while in 2018, it fell down to 2.6°C on December 29.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/cold-wave-persists-in-delhi-but-imd-says-mercury-may-rise-soon-101640109875335.html
22-12-2021||Delhi||Delhi air turns ‘severe’ day after easing of pollution curbs||A day after the Commission of Air Quality Management (CAQM) in Delhi-NCR and adjoining areas lifted the ban on construction and demolition activities in the region, and the ban on entry of petrol and diesel trucks into Delhi citing an improvement in air quality, the Capital’s pollution levels spiked into the severe range again. The Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) recording showed that on Tuesday the overall Air Quality Index (AQI) reading of Delhi deteriorated to 402, in the severe zone. On Monday, the Capital’s average AQI reading was 332, considered very poor on CPCB’s air quality scale. An AQI reading between 201 and 300 is considered poor, 301 and 400 very poor, and 401 and 500 severe.Senior India Meteorological Department (IMD) scientists said that with a western disturbance expected to impact Delhi and its neighbouring states from December 22, the wind speeds on Tuesday slowed down, causing pollutants to get trapped closer to the surface. The cold, frigid conditions all across north India, further led to pollution particles becoming heavier, making dispersion all the more difficult. A western disturbance refers to an area of “disturbed” or reduced air pressure, moving from the west to the east, carrying with it moisture associated with rainfall, snowfall and fog in northern India.“The winds were largely calm on Tuesday, which caused pollution to accumulate. From Tuesday night, Delhi will start receiving easterly winds because of a passing western disturbance. The wind speed will be around 4-6kmph on December 22 and December 23. By December 24-25, the wind speed will improve to around 10-15kmph,” said a senior Met official. After recording the worst pollution for the month of November since 2015, with 11 “severe” air days as opposed to the 10 “severe” days recorded in 2016, the national Capital this December recorded two “severe” air days. Before Tuesday, the AQI had peaked to the “severe” category on December 2, with a reading of 429. Considering the unprecedented pollution levels last month, on the directions of the Supreme Court, the CAQM on November 16 imposed a series of restrictions, including a ban on construction and demolition activities in Delhi-NCR, scheduled operations for thermal power plants, and allowed only those industrial units that have switched to piped natural gas (PNG) to operate, and banned the entry of trucks carrying non-essential items into Delhi. Over the last one week, the commission has lifted these restrictions in a phased manner.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-air-turns-severe-day-after-easing-of-pollution-curbs-101640109693242.html
22-12-2021||Delhi||NCR resolved 50% pollution-related complaints: CPCB||Nearly half of the pollution-related complaints made to the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) or logged by its monitoring teams across the National Capital Region (NCR) between October 15 and December 19 are yet to be resolved, with data from the pollution watchdog showing that only 1,100 of the 2,207 complaints have been addressed so far.However, among the NCR states, Delhi is faring best, having resolved nearly 63% (761) of the 1,214 complaints filed during this period.In comparison, UP (134 of 370 complaints) and Haryana (184 of 509 complaints) have resolved 36% complaints, and Rajasthan (nine of 53 complaints) resolved only 17% complaints.A senior CPCB official, on the condition of anonymity, said most complaints were related to dust violations, construction and demolition waste and instances of open waste burning. “Data is collected each day from each agency and is being updated in real time. Agencies have been asked to ensure no complaints remain pending and are being asked to prioritise those complaints in particular which can be dealt with quickly,” the official said.CPCB data showed that in Delhi, most complaints (403) were recorded in areas under the jurisdiction of North Delhi Municipal Corporation but the civic body has addressed only 189 complaints (47%).South MCD received 359 complaints and resolved 232 (65%), whereas East MCD got 87 complaints, of which they have resolved 79 (91%).In comparison, other agencies with a high pendency rate include the Delhi government’s flood control department, which has only resolved four of its 17 complaints (24%), and the Delhi Police, which has addressed only 10 of its 24 complaints (42%).The Delhi Metro Rail Corporation (DMRC), the Delhi Cantonment Board and the Delhi transport department have meanwhile resolved all the complaints received so far.Among agencies in NCR which failed to solve a single complaint are the Central Public Works Department (56 complaints), Gurugram Metropolitan Development Authority (40 complaints), Haryana Urban Development Authority (21 complaints) and the UP state pollution control board (56 complaints).Anumita Roychowdhury, executive director, research and advocacy at the Centre for Science and Environment (CSE), said it is important to act swiftly on all such complaints during the winter to somewhat halt the spike in air pollution. “In winters, you cannot carry out infrastructure-based intervention and therefore strict enforcement is essential. The CPCB may also need to carry out a system audit and assign accountability to agencies failing to solve complaints,” she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/ncr-resolved-50-pollution-related-complaints-cpcb-101640109094538.html
22-12-2021||Delhi||Holding namaz as show of strength wrong, says Haryana CM Khattar||Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar on Tuesday said it was “inappropriate” to hold Friday prayers in open spaces as a “show of strength”, advising all communities to avoid organising such routine religious programmes in public places.“No member of any community should hold regular religious programmes in open public spaces,” Khattar said in the Vidhan Sabha after Congress member from Nuh assembly Aftab Ahmed raised the issue of Hindu groups opposing Friday prayers in open places in Gurugram.The chief minister said whenever people want to organise such routine religious activities, they should hold them in temples, mosques, churches and gurdwaras,“Displaying a show of strength is not good as this provokes the sentiments of another community,” Khattar said even as the Congress MLA reminded the chief minister that latter was the custodian of the state, and the protector of the people of all faiths.This was the second time that the issue was raised in the House after the winter session of the Vidhan Sabha began last Friday. Earlier, Congress MLA Mamman Khan from Ferozepur Jhirka of Nuh district also raised the matter, objecting to Khattar’s recent remarks over namaaz being held in public places. Both Ahmed and Khan demanded that chief minister should withdraw his statement.However, the chief minister said it was the responsibility of all to ensure that there was no social confrontation and the peace was maintained. He said people of all faiths hold prayers at designated religious places such as temples, mosques, churches and gurdwaras, and that permissions are given to organise big festivals and programmes in open public places.“Gurugram is a symbol of development. What message is being sent out from Gurugram when one cannot offer prayers as per one’s choice?,” the Congress MLA said, adding that “some elements” were repeatedly disrupting Friday prayers.“The Constitution gives the right to practise one’s religion. No one has the right to disrupt prayers,” the Congress legislator said.The chief minister said people have agreed to hold Friday prayers at certain places in Gurugram, till new arrangements are made. “The good thing is that some places have been identified as per a consensus till new arrangements are made. When consensus is breached and some people hold prayers outside the agreed upon spots, it leads to confrontation,” Khattar said, advising the opposition MLAs not to flare up this issue as this can breach communal harmony.In a press statement on Tuesday, the Gurgaon Muslim Council, that is leading the demand for namaz sites, said, “Muslims of Gurugram are extremely pained to hear that our CM in Haryana Assembly has said that Muslims offering their obligatory weekly prayers is a show of strength. Instead of stopping such horrifying attacks on Muslims by far-right wing groups, CM has put the blame squarely on us.”On December 10, Khattar, when he was in Gurugram, said that performing namaz in open spaces cannot be tolerated, and asked the Hindu and Muslim groups and the district administration to discuss and resolve the issue. Following Khattar’s remarks the district administration withdrew permission for Friday prayers at 20 designated sites. Fresh sites were yet to be assigned.Hindu right-wing groups have been protesting against Friday namaz in open public spaces in Gurugram for the last three years. In 2018, the administration designated 37 sites for Muslims to perform the Friday prayers. However, the number of sites were cut down to 20 in November after members of the right-wing groups and locals continued to protest and disrupt prayers. Muslims have maintained that they were forced to use public spaces since there were not enough number of mosques in the city.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/holding-namaz-as-show-of-strength-wrong-says-haryana-cm-khattar-101640108855111.html
22-12-2021||Delhi||Centre spent so much on Covid shots, unfair to ask for funds: SDMC||The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)-ruled South Delhi Municipal Corporation (SDMC) on Tuesday countered the opposition attack over the three civic bodies not being provided central funds, saying since the BJP-ruled Union government has spent “crores on Covid vaccination in MCD areas”, it will not be fair to demand more money. The BJP was responding to allegations by the opposition that instead of seeking funds from the Delhi government, the MCDs should seek funds from the party ruled Centre, and the dues that the central agencies owe to the municipalities. “Since the AAP government in Delhi has always released funds less than our allotment, their leaders have no job other than to raise insignificant issues. The Centre has always extended its best possible help to all the MCDs. It has spent many crore of rupees for Covid-19 vaccination in the MCD areas. Therefore, it will not be fair to ask for more financial aid from them,” South MCD mayor Mukesh Suryan said on Tuesday.When asked whether the municipal bodies have sent a requisition to the Centre seeking funds, SDMC standing committee chairman BK Oberoi said the aid is extended only to municipalities in states, and not to those in Union territories such as Delhi.Delhi deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia on Monday said the Delhi government owes no dues to the three municipal corporations, and added that despite the government disbursing ₹2,588 crore this year, the civic bodies failed to pay salaries to their employees, many of whom are currently either protesting or on a strike demanding their wages. Addressing a digital press briefing, Sisodia, who is also Delhi’s finance minister, said since chief minister Arvind Kejriwal took charge of the government in Delhi, the administration has not only given MCDs their share of the budget, but also a loan of ₹6,889 crore. “The Delhi government is supposed to provide ₹3,488 crore to the MCDs in the fiscal 2021-22, according to the budget. So far, the Delhi government has given the MCDs 75% of the funds in three instalments, totalling ₹2,588 crore. In addition, the remaining 25% will be disbursed in January. Despite knowing this well, BJP leaders ruling the MCD are crying that the Delhi government did not give money to us. The question that must be asked is, where did all of this money go.” The SDMC mayor on Tuesday, however, said the Delhi government was yet to clear over Rs2,000 crore pending under the 2016-17 budget, and alleged that the AAP was trying to malign their image. “The Kejriwal-led Delhi government has no other business but to spread lies to malign our image. The fact is that Delhi government was yet not clear outstanding dues of ₹1,482.19 crore in plan head, and ₹708.63 crore in non-plan head, from fiscal 2016-17 fiscal,” he said. Oberoi, who supervises the financial matters of the South corporation, alleged the AAP government was trying paralyse the functioning of the three civic bodies in Delhi. “Can the opposition name a single municipal body in UTs, which is getting this (central) fund? And, moreover it’s credited to the state government’s exchequer and doesn’t come directly to us. At present, all the three MCDs are facing a financial crunch and are not in a position to pay salaries to their employees. The Delhi government is trying to paralyse us,” he said. A senior Union finance ministry official explained that the Centre extends an aid of Rs488 per person of the population to municipal corporations in states “But, there are few exceptions such as Chandigarh and Puducherry also. The fund goes to the account of state or UT governments, but the requisition has to come from the municipal bodies. After that, we discuss the feasibility of allotment, and then the funds are released to the governments concerned,” he said asking not to be named. Senior AAP leader and party’s MCD in-charge Durgesh Pathak said the BJP-ruled MCDs have no other business than to accuse the AAP for their failures. “Who will write the letter to the Centre on their behalf? Why can’t they raise these pertinent questions with the Centre. If it (Centre) can extend support to municipal bodies in Arunachal Pradesh, Mizoram and Jammu, how it can ignore Delhi,” Pathak said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/centre-spent-so-much-on-covid-shots-unfair-to-ask-for-funds-sdmc-101640107532976.html
22-12-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab elections: Rana Gurmit Sodhi quits Congress to join BJP||In a setback to the ruling Congress, senior Punjab leader and former minister Rana Gurmit Singh Sodhi quit the party and joined the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) on Tuesday with just weeks to go for the assembly elections in the state. The four-time legislator joined the BJP in the presence of central ministers Bhupender Yadav, Gajendra Singh Shekhawat, who is also the party’s Punjab election in-charge, and Som Prakash, and state affairs in-charge Dushyant Gautam at a press conference at the national headquarters of the party in Delhi. Before joining the BJP, Sodhi shot off a letter to the Congress to resign from all posts and primary membership of the party with immediate effect. “I am deeply hurt by the bickering and infighting within the Punjab Congress. This is harming the party and causing serious problems for the state and the government. I feel suffocated and helpless in the present situation, especially when the party has put the state’s security and communal harmony at stake,” he wrote. He said that rather than taking action to restore peace in Punjab, the senior Congress leadership was hell bent on destroying the border state for its personal gains. The former minister also wrote that he was handpicked by Congress leader Rajiv Gandhi to contest his first election in 1985. Known to be close to former chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh, Sodhi was a minister in his government. He was dropped from the cabinet by the new chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi after the Congress effected the change of guard in the state in September. After his unceremonious replacement, Capt Amarinder Singh quit the Congress to float his separate political party, the Punjab Lok Congress, and announced a pre-poll alliance with the BJP. Sodhi is the first sitting MLA to quit the Congress since the two-time former chief minister’s exit from the party. Shekhawat, while welcoming the Guru Harsahai MLA into the party, said his joining the BJP will help the party in its endeavour for a new Punjab. Sodhi said the BJP was needed to save Punjab from heading into a dangerous situation. “I was in the Congress for 40 years, starting from the Youth Congress. The party was known for secularism, but not any longer as they are playing divisive politics for votes,” the former international trap shooter said, hitting out at his former party. Sodhi has won four consecutive elections from the Guru Harsahai assembly seat since 2002.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-elections-rana-gurmit-sodhi-quits-congress-to-join-bjp-101640078851433.html
