23-12-2021||Mumbai||23 new Omicron cases, state restricts Christmas festivities||Mumbai Maharashtra on Thursday reported 23 new Omicron cases, taking the state’s tally to 88. The surge in Covid cases continued as the state reported 1,179 new cases. This is the second day in a row that the state saw more than 1,000 new infections, raising concerns over the spike in the epidemic. On this background, the state government on Thursday announced curbs on celebrations of Christmas, appealing to citizens not to crowd at any public places and follow Covid-appropriate behaviour. Out of the 23 new Omicron cases reported on Thursday, 13 were found in Pune, five in Mumbai, two in Osmanabad and one each in Thane, Nagpur and Mira-Bhayandar. Of these 23 infected persons, 16 had international travel history, while the rest seven were high-risk contacts of the infected.These include four children below 18 years of age and two senior citizens above 60 years of age. Of the 23 infected persons, 18 were fully vaccinated while one was unvaccinated. The rest were below 18 years of age and hence not eligible for vaccination, according to information by the state health department. Of the 88 Omicron patients in the state, 42 have tested negative so far, according to the health department. According to a report issued by the state government, Mumbai now has the most number of Omicron cases in the state with 35 followed by Pimpri-Chinchwad with 19, Pune with 16. The rest of the cases are five in Osmanabad, three each in Satara, two in Kalyan-Dombivli and Nagpur and one each in Buldhana, Latur, Navi Mumbai, Thane, Mira-Bhayander and Vasai-Virar.Meanwhile, the state government on Thursday issued guidelines for Christmas festivities. It has mandated that churches should allow just 50% people of the sitting capacity and there should be strictly social distancing between them. It also said there should be less number of choir singers and even the mikes should be different. It also disallowed putting up stalls outside the churches as well as gathering outside the churches and banned bursting of crackers.Late in the evening, a meeting of the state task force on Covid was convened to discuss the rising number of cases, the threat of Omicron and the possibility of a third wave in the coming days.On Thursday, Maharashtra added 1,179 new Covid cases, taking its tally to 66,53,345. It also reported 17 fatalities due to Covid, pushing the death toll to 1,41,392. The active cases in the state stood at 7,897 in which Mumbai leads with 2,813 active cases followed by Pune and Thane at 1,859 and 1,051 respectively. The death toll stood at 1,41,392 with Pune leading with 19,776 followed by Mumbai with 16,367 and Thane with 11,587.
23-12-2021||Pune||General body approves roads at Bibvewadi and Sangamwadi||PUNE The ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) on Thursday gave a nod for the road at Bibvewadi and Sangamwadi under the rule of 205 as these roads are not marked in the Development Plan.However, opposition parties raised their voice against it and demanded detailed information. The BJP avoided the discussion on the proposal, and did not allow the administration to give detailed information.Shiv Sena leader Prithviraj Sutar and Congress leader Aba Bagul demanded to information of the proposal, but the ruling party took a stand that if there is opposition, then they can call for a vote sans the information. The uproar brought the general body meeting to standstill. Later, the BJP called in for a vote and the proposal was accepted, said officials.For another road at Sangamwadi, NCP joined hands with the BJP and approved it.As per 205 rule of the Bombay Provincial Municipal Corporation Act 1949, municipal corporations can plan new roads though it is not mentioned in the Development Plan.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/general-body-approves-roads-at-bibvewadi-and-sangamwadi-101640282837514.html
23-12-2021||Noida||Two sharpshooters held after gunfight with cops in Greater Noida||Two sharpshooters of a criminal gang carrying a reward on their arrest were arrested in Greater Noida after a gunfight with the police that left them injured, officials said on Thursday.The gunfight broke out late Wednesday night when the duo was intercepted by officials of Beta 2 police station during a routine check, they said."There were two persons on a motorcycle who looked suspicious. They were gestured to stop for inquiry but instead they opened fire on the police party at the checkpoint, leading to a counter-fire in which the duo got injured and was held," a police spokesperson said.They were later identified as Kaushendra Gurjar (35) and Sumit Pandit (40), both sharpshooters of the regional Manoj Mangariya gang with a bounty of ₹25,000 declared on their arrest, the official said.The duo was then taken to a hospital for treatment, the spokesperson said, adding that an FIR has been lodged against them.The police have impounded their motorcycle, which appears to have been stolen by them, and seized two pistols along with some ammunition from their possession.The two accused persons have over a dozen FIRs lodged against them in various police stations, including cases of murder and attempted murder, the police said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/two-sharpshooters-held-after-gunfight-with-cops-in-greater-noida-101640282425198.html
23-12-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra assembly clears OBC reservation bill||Mumbai The Maharashtra assembly on Thursday cleared two bills to provide 27% reservation for the Other Backward Classes (OBC) community in rural and urban local bodies in Maharashtra. The bills convert the ordinances issued by the state government earlier into legislation and they will now be placed before the legislative council for approval. The legislation may not come into force as the Supreme Court (SC) has stayed the ordinances issued to this effect.The state government had promulgated two ordinances to this effect that were stayed by the SC in the first week of this month but the state government decided to go ahead with the legislative proceedings by moving the bills in the Lower House.“The OBC reservation has become a national issue as after Maharashtra, the SC stayed OBC reservation in local body polls in states such as Madhya Pradesh and Odisha. The state government is considering filing a review petition against the decision along with Madhya Pradesh. The central government too is considering a review petition in this case,” said Hasan Mushrif, state rural development minister during the discussion on the bills in the Lower House.On December 6, the SC stayed both ordinances and ordered the state to complete an empirical survey that would accurately identify the extent of the OBC community’s socio-economic backwardness before assigning political reservations to them.Consequently, polls on 1,533 seats of the local bodies in the state were held without OBC reservation in the state on December 21, while polling on the remaining 567 seats that were reserved under the OBC quota will take place on January 18 as open category seats. On September 23, the state promulgated an ordinance to amend two legislations — Maharashtra Zilla Parishads and Panchayat Samitis Act, 1961 and Maharashtra Village Panchayat Act for Zilla Parishads, Panchayat Samiti and Gram Panchayats — to ensure up to 27% reservation to OBC candidates. This was done after the top court struck down a legal provision that granted exactly 27% political reservation on the grounds that it exceeded the 50% ceiling when taken together with constitutionally guaranteed reservations provided to Scheduled Caste and Scheduled Tribes (SC, ST) candidates.On October 1, the state promulgated a second ordinance to amend three other laws — the Mumbai Municipal Corporation Act, Maharashtra Municipal Corporations Act and Maharashtra Municipal Councils, Nagar Panchayats and the Industrial Townships Act — which govern urban local bodies.Explaining the issue of state government going ahead with the passing of the bills even after the apex court stayed their implementation, Sachin Patil, the standing counsel of the Maharashtra government in the Supreme Court, said the legislative process can be completed as the implementation of the ordinance is stayed. Leader of opposition Devendra Fadnavis pressed for legislative intervention to resolve the matter. He said, “The state government can ask the state backward classes commission to give a report on the empirical inquiry into political backwardness of the OBC community, which will require not more than two months. In the meantime, the state should move for legislation to prevent the state election commission from holding local bodies’ elections otherwise the OBC community will be deprived of the rights in all the local bodies’ polls.”Chhagan Bhujbal, state food and civil supplies minister and an OBC leader, said that the state would not have to face this situation if the central government had provided socio-economic caste census (SECC) sought by them.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-assembly-clears-obc-reservation-bill-101640282540488.html
23-12-2021||Pune||Pune police arrest three for sodomising 12-year-old boy, filming it||PUNE: Three men were remanded to five days in police custody on Wednesday for sodomising a 12-year-old boy and recording it on a mobile phone in Haveli area of Pune. Those in custody were identified as Ishwar Ashok Shinde, 20; Nilesh Suryakant Netke, 21; and Kunal Rajesh Bhangre, 21, all residents of Haveli, according to the police. The remand was granted by SP Ponkshe with public prosecutor Shubhangi Deshmukh in case registered at Haveli police station under Sections 377, 506(2), and 34 of Indian Penal Code along with Sections 3, 4, 11(2), 12, 15, and 16 of Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (Pocso) act and Section 67(b) of Information Technology Act. “Shinde was found during patrolling on Taljai hill with a 14-year-old girl. Because the girl was minor, he was checked and upon browsing through his phone, the clip was found. It has not been shared with anyone else, we believe,” said senior inspector Sadashiv Shelar of Haveli police station. The police then tracked down the boy and his father. It was then that the child broke down and told his family members what had happened. According to the complaint in the matter, the boy told the police that the child had left his house on Lakshmipujan day to look for cardboard sheets to finish his school homework along with his friends. That is when Bhangre found him and told him that he had some cardboard and took him to one of their houses where the two others were called. The men sodomised him and used his T-shirt to gag him as they forced a 14-year-old boy to do the same to the survivor. The crime was filmed by Shinde on his phone. The men then threatened him as he started raising an alarm and sent him home.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pune-police-arrest-three-for-sodomising-12-year-old-boy-filming-it-101640282414214.html
23-12-2021||Pune||No drop in temperature for Christmas in Pune: IMD||Pune: Even though the day temperature has seen a drop in Pune city, mercury at night has not decreased much in December. As per the India Meteorological Department (IMD), Christmas festivities in Pune city may not witness much chill as temperature drop is unlikely. According to the weather department forecast, day temperature is likely to be around 31 degrees Celsius till Christmas. Pune on Thursday reported a minimum temperature at 12.8 degrees Celsius which has seen a gradual rise from 11.2 degrees in the last few days. The night temperature was two degrees warmer than normal. The day temperature in Shivajinagar on Thursday was reported to be 31.3 degrees Celsius which was two degrees warmer than normal. As per IMD data, Thursday was the warmest day in December with mercury crossing 30 degrees Celsius. On Wednesday, maximum temperature for Pune city was 30.4 degrees Celsius, the second warmest day in December. Anupam Kashyapi, head of weather forecasting department of IMD Pune, said mainly clear skies are expected till December 24 with haze in the morning hours. “From December 25, the skies may get cloudy but there is no forecast for rainfall in Pune city. Day temperature throughout the next few days is likely to be 31 degrees Celsius and night temperature will be around 13 degrees Celsius at various parts of the city,” said Kashyapi. Speaking about the weather across Maharashtra, Kashyapi said that till December 26, all four subdivisions of Maharashtra will witness dry weather. “Gradual rise in minimum temperatures by 2 to 4 degrees is very likely over most parts of northwest, east and central India till December 25 and no significant change thereafter,” said IMD officials. The coolest place in Maharashtra on Thursday was Jalgaon with the lowest minimum temperature reported at 9 degrees Celsius.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/no-drop-in-temperature-for-christmas-in-puneimd-101640282114032.html
23-12-2021||Other||Punjab transport minister lays foundation stone of Bhadaur, Nabha bus stands||Barnala Punjab transport minister Amrinder Singh Raja Warring laid the foundation stone of the ₹2.1 crore modernisation project of Bhadaur bus stand on Thursday. Warring added, “The work of modernisation will completed in six months, with residents getting access to the best of facilities.” He said that the modernisation entails five bays for streamlining of passenger entry into buses, an enquiry centre, canteen, drinking water and toilet facility for commuters. The bus stand is named after Sardar Gurdev Singh as he had donated the land for this bus stand. Warring also laid the foundation stone for a bus stand at Nabha in Patiala district. “This has been a long-pending demand of residents and the project will cost ₹4 crore.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/punjab-transport-minister-lays-foundation-stone-of-bhadaur-nabha-bus-stands-101640281933860.html
23-12-2021||Pune||PMC okays sanitary waste disposal project at Hadapsar||PUNE: Despite opposition from elected members of the area, Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) general body has cleared the proposal to set up sanitary waste disposal project at Hadapsar. Hadapsar elected members asked why PMC is setting up garbage waste projects in their locality and not executing plans like Metro. PMC general body gave its nod to the proposal by calling vote. PMC plans to erect the new sanitary waste programme at the cost of Rs25 crore at Hadapsar, a proposal put forth by municipal commissioner Vikram Kumar. As per the proposal, PMC would not give fees to the contractor for the first three years, later the standing committee will decide the fees. Former mayor Vaishali Bankar said, “Why the administration is not thinking about other areas for garbage projects. During the Swacch Bharat survey, PMC gave fake information about cleanliness. If the teams visited the garbage depo and our locality, PMC would get exposed.” NCP member Yogesh Sasane said, “PMC is claiming that the project is free and civic body would not need to pay fees. But PMC is giving land free of cost which is not mentioned in it.” Despite opposition from NCP and elected members from Hadapsar area, the proposal was approved with 72 votes in favour and 26 against it.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pmc-okays-sanitary-waste-disposal-project-at-hadapsar-101640281873805.html
23-12-2021||Pune||MSCE to scrutinise TET certificates issued since 2013||Pune: Following the arrest of Tukaram Supe, commissioner of Maharashtra State Council of Examination (MSCE), and other details emerging in the Teachers’ Eligibility Test (TET) recruitment exam case, MSCE has decided to scrutinise TET certificates issued since 2013 and accordingly instructions will be given to district’s education officers. Several organisations have sought to verify the certificates issued after the TET scam was uncovered. It is estimated that around 700 teachers in service across the state have been given TET certificates over the years by corrupt practices. The state government has appointed a committee to investigate the case, departmental inquiry of officials and staffers related to the case. Experts and senior officials from departments are worried that this is not the end, as more and more such recruitment-related scams will be unearthed if properly investigated. Till now, Pune police have recovered cash and gold jewelry worth ₹2 crore and ₹88 lakh in cash. “We are giving complete cooperation to the police investigation and as per the state government instructions, a committee is been formed to investigate the case on departmental level. Still to check and verify about how many such illegal TET certificates are been given to teachers who are in service as all the district’s education officers will be sent a letter soon. They need to submit the report after scrutiny of TET certificates issued since 2013 in their respective district,” said Harun Attar, deputy commissioner of MSCE.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/msce-to-scrutinise-tet-certificates-issued-since-2013-101640281513723.html
23-12-2021||Other||Historic Nabha jail to be renovated; inmates being shifted to Bathinda jail||Patiala Nabha’s historic and maximum-security jail, which has been a witness to history over a century now, is being vacated of inmates, with the Punjab prisons department deciding to renovate the building. Over 750 prisoners, including hardcore and dreaded criminals lodged here, are being shifted to Bathinda’s newly-built jail at Gobindpura village. The state government is ensuring that the inmates are shifted under high-security arrangements. According to the plan that the prisons department has mooted, the Nabha jail, a British era prison, where freedom fighters, including the country’s first Prime Minister Jawaharlal Nehru, were locked up in September 1923, will be renovated before September 2023. The project has a budget of ₹25 crore. The jail has 40 cells and barracks and can accommodate 450 inmates. It has been overcrowded for long and has been housing 750 prisoners. Punjab inspector general (IG) prisons Roop Kumar Arora said the shifting process had already begun as the under-trials had been shifted to other district jails. “The dreaded criminals and convicted ones have been transferred to Gobindpura jail in Bathinda district, which is going to start operations from December 27,” he added. “The jail will be equipped with modern and updated security features, post the renovation. The staff has also been shifted to Gobindpura and other jails,” Arora added. The department proposes to construct 60 new cells in place of the old barracks. The department has planned to construct a new prison at a cost of ₹125 crore, but finally the decision to renovate was given the nod. The jail had hogged limelight in November 2016, when armed men attacked it and freed six prisoners, including two terrorists and four gangsters.The newly-constructed Gobindpura jail, primarily for women, adjoining the Bathinda Central Jail has been lying vacant, after its completion five years ago. Spread on 29 acre, this jail for women has 13 blocks and can accommodate 1,500 inmates.
23-12-2021||Lucknow||Missing UP moneylender murdered, four held: Police||An illegal money-lending operator, who had been missing ever since he left his house in Qaiserbagh area in the state capital on December 14, was murdered, said police officials here on Thursday. They said four people involved in the murder and disposing of the body in Sharda canal in nearby Sitapur district had been arrested.The officials said the victim’s body had yet not been recovered but efforts were on in this regard. However, the iron rod used in the crime as well as a vehicle used in disposing of the body had been recovered from the arrested people, they added.In a press conference, additional deputy commissioner of police (ADCP), Lucknow west, Chiranjeev Nath Sinha said Mohd Shoaib Khan, 42, had gone missing when he left his house in Khandari Bazaar locality under Qaiserbagh police station limits on December 14 morning. He said the Shoaib’s brother Amir Hamza Khan reported his missing at the police station on December 15 after he failed to trace him as his phone number was also switched off.The ADCP said the investigation revealed that Shoaib was into illegal money lending business and had lent money to many people on interest. He said the probe further revealed that Shoaib was last spotted with a Hasanganj resident Naseem Ahmad alias Raja on a tea corner and his mobile’s last location was also traced to the same area.Sinha said Raja confessed to murdering Shoaib by hitting him with an iron road on the head with the help of his three other accomplices namely Shoaib Khan alias Topi, Mohd Aqeel and Shadab and thereafter disposing of the body in Sharda canal from Sariya bridge in Sitapur on December 14 itself.The ADCP said Raja revealed that he had borrowed ₹20 lakh from the victim and the latter had been continuously taking interest at an exorbitant rate from him for the past two years. He said the rate of interest was so high that Raja had to borrow money from other money lenders to pay it. He said another accused Topi had also borrowed ₹9 lakh from the victim. “Raja and Topi together hatched a conspiracy to eliminate the victim and get rid of paying back the borrowed money and its interest. They murdered him when the victim went to collect the interest amount from them at a deserted place in Hasanganj. Later, they took along the body in Shadab’s vehicle with the help of Mohd Aqeel,” Sinha said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/missing-up-moneylender-murdered-four-held-police-101640281453884.html
23-12-2021||Lucknow||‘Discrepancies’ in teachers’ recruitment: UP CM meets reserved category candidates||Chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Thursday met the reserved category candidates regarding the alleged discrepancy in the reservation in 69,000 assistant teachers’ recruitment for which thousands of candidates have been protesting for last several months.Taking cognisance of their protest and demand, the chief minister gave instructions to basic education department for a speedy and an equitable solution to the problem, according to a tweet from chief minister’s office.It took the state government two years to wrap up the appointment process of 69,000 assistant teachers in government primary and upper primary schools across UP. Posts were advertised in December 2018 and the state government could complete the appointment only in December 2020, after a long-drawn legal battle in the high court and the Supreme Court after some candidates filed a lawsuit.The chief minister had distributed appointment letters to select new recruits in October and December and even interacted with them while others received them from local MLAs, MPs and ministers in the Yogi government in their respective districts.Soon after that, hundreds of candidates who could not make into 69,000 teachers recruitment conducted by the state government staged demonstrations in the state capital alleging foul play by basic education department official as they did not adhere to reservation policy, protesters claimed.These candidates claimed the department gave only 3.86% reservations against 27% and in Scheduled Caste category 16.6% reservations were given against 21%. Likewise, in OBC category, against 18,598 candidates only 2,637 were selected. All this amounts to gross violation of reservation policy. They alleged that rules were violated in the teachers’ recruitment.The protesters recently took out a candle light march from 1090 Crossing to the chief minister’s residence. However, the police had resorted to lathicharge. The opposition parties had slammed the police lathicharge on the protesting aspiring teachers in the state capital when they started their candle light march and headed towards chief minister’s office at Kalidas Marg. Condemning the police act, Samajwadi Party chief Akhilesh Yadav had tweeted, “Bharatiya Janata party is on the course of becoming ‘Vishwa Guru’ (world leader) by charging cane on aspiring teachers. We are with 69,000 teacher aspirants’ demand.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/discrepancies-in-teachers-recruitment-up-cm-meets-reserved-category-candidates-101640280973712.html
23-12-2021||Lucknow||Akhilesh demands Bharat Ratna for Charan Singh, misses SP-RLD Aligarh rally||A day after some of his family members, including wife Dimple Yadav, tested positive for Covid, Samajwadi Party (SP) president Akhilesh Yadav in a tweet said he would not be attending any public events for three days as a precaution. As such, he did not attend the SP-Rashtriya Lok Dal (RLD) joint public rally held at Iglas town of Uttar Pradesh’s Aligarh district on Thursday. “After the family members testing positive for corona, we would not be attending public events for three days as a matter of precaution. I wish all the success for joint rally of SP-RLD at Iglas and appeal to the party workers to be active with full enthusiasm and spirit,” the SP president tweeted. Akhilesh, who has tested negative for Covid, also attached his RT-PCR report along with the tweet.The rally was all important as it was called in Jat-dominated belt of western Uttar Pradesh on birth anniversary of late PM Chaudhary Charan Singh (1902-1987), the grandfather of RLD president Jayant Chaudhary, celebrated as “Kisan Diwas”. Akhilesh Yadav, however, paid his tributes to Chaudhary Charan Singh and demanded the Bharat Ratna—the country’s top civilian award—for the former PM. “I offer hearty tributes to the most respected Chaudhary Charan Singh ji, as I remember him on his birth anniversary. Today, on the occasion of ‘Kisan Diwas,’ we strongly demand Bharat Ratna for Chaudhary Charan Singh ji, who dedicated his life for the farmers and the country,” he tweeted.Samajwadi Party workers, who had been working day and night for the success of Iglas rally, were disheartened due to the absence of their leader at the rally. For the 2022 UP assembly elections, SP chief Akhilesh Yadav has entered into an alliance with the Rashtriya Lok Dal (RLD) headed by Jayant Chaudhary.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/akhilesh-demands-bharat-ratna-for-charan-singh-misses-sp-rld-aligarh-rally-101640280374063.html
23-12-2021||Lucknow||Brief respite from chill before rain across Uttar Pradesh: IMD||The minimum temperatures across Uttar Pradesh rose by an average of two degrees Celsius providing relief from the chilly weather on Thursday. The weather will remain the same till Christmas, followed by rain showers, as per the latest forecast issued by the Indian Meteorological Department (IMD) on Thursday. The minimum temperature in the state capital was recorded at 7.2 degrees Celsius, 1.5 degrees more than Wednesday; however, it was still one degree below normal. “A shift in pressure zone created after the snowfall in the Himalayas and reduction in movement of the cold westerly winds are the primary reason for the slight increase in the minimum temperatures across UP. The minimum temperature is expected to stay constant for a couple of days,” said JP Gupta, Director of Uttar Pradesh Met Department. As per the forecast issued by Indian Meteorological Department (IMD), the minimum temperature across UP is expected to drop by less than a degree till Monday. “The conditions will lead to the creation of a low-pressure zone that will lead to rains across many parts of Uttar Pradesh. The state is expected to get an average of 10 mm of rainfall during the weekend,” said Gupta. The rain showers will be concentrated mostly in the districts of West and Central Uttar Pradesh with a few of the east UP districts experiencing brief rain showers. “The average temperature will plunge across the state post rain,” added Gupta. The MeT department has also warned of the presence of heavy fog during morning hours across the state. Considering the forecast the state Met department has also alerted district authorities about the adverse weather conditions suggesting them to make appropriate arrangements. Besides the state capital, other UP cities also recorded a jump in the minimum temperature.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/brief-respite-from-chill-before-rain-across-uttar-pradesh-imd-101640280017006.html
23-12-2021||Lucknow||Alert people against BJP, SP’s communal tint to polarise voters: Maya||Accusing the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and the Samajwadi Party (SP) of giving a Hindu-Muslim colour to electioneering to polarise voters in 2022 UP assembly polls, Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) chief Mayawati on Thursday instructed her party cadre to visit cities, towns and villages across the state to warn people against such designs.BSP chief called a meeting of the party leaders, office bearers, chief in-charges of party units in the 18 divisions and presidents of 75 district units in the party’s state unit office to review preparations all 403 assembly segments of the state. Addressing a press conference at the party state unit office, the BSP chief said, “Along with alerting the people about the plan of the BJP and the SP to polarise the voters on communal lines, the party office bearers and workers have been directed to create awareness among the masses about the anti-people policies of the BJP, the SP and the Congress governments as well as to highlight the development and welfare projects launched by the four BSP governments (1995, 1997, 2002 and 2007) in Uttar Pradesh.” “The party cadre should mobilise their resources to pave way for the formation of the BSP government in UP next year as they did during the 2007 assembly election. The people in UP want change and they have made up their mind to bring BSP to power in 2022 assembly election,” she said.“The BSP will seek support of people on the basis of the performance of its four governments in UP. Along with the rule of the Congress, the BJP and the SP, people have also seen the BSP government in power. I ask them which party government was the best on all the parameters of the government? The people and even the leaders of the opposition parties will tell that the BSP government was the best,” Mayawati said.She also called upon voters not to be carried away by the promises made by the rival parties or get driven by sentiments during the polls. “They should remember the good governance under the BSP rule. They should bring BSP to power. Uttar Pradesh needs a government that works for the development and welfare of the masses,” the BSP chief said. Rejecting the BJP’s claim of winning over 300 seats in the 2022 UP assembly election, Mayawati said, “Saffron brigade’s claim is baseless. Fearing defeat in the (upcoming) election, the BJP government is busy launching various projects. Union ministers and BJP central leaders have been sent for campaigning. The ministers in the state government and state unit leaders are visiting various districts several times. The BJP government is luring people and students with promises.”“The SP and other rival parties have also adopted same tactics. The rivals will not be able to trick the people. The BSP will come to power. I have faith in party workers and office bearers who are working on ground. They have strengthened the party organisation to the booth level and created awareness among the voters,” the former CM claimed.Mayawati said BSP office bearers had been given a week to complete the organisation work and that she will again review the election preparations in 403 assembly seats. When asked why she had not launched her election campaign whereas senior leaders of the BJP, the SP and the Congress were campaigning across UP, Mayawati replied that fearing defeat in the election, the rival parties’ leaders were moving from one area of the state to another whereas she was focused on strengthening the organisation and selecting candidates. Once she completed her ground work, she will start addressing public meetings, Mayawati said.
23-12-2021||Pune||Pune district reports 184 new Covid cases, 5 deaths||Pune: As per the state health authorities, Pune district has reported 184 fresh Covid positive cases and five deaths in 24 hours. Thirteen new patients were tested positive for the Omicron variant in Pune district which takes the total cases in Pune district to 35. Of these 13, three each were from Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) and Pune rural and seven patients were from Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC). A total of 23 patients tested positive for Omicron from Maharashtra on Thursday taking the tally to 88 in the state. Of five Covid deaths reported in Pune district in the last 24 hours, three were reported from Pune rural, one each from PCMC and PMC. PMC has so far reported 524,930 Covid cases and 9,238 deaths till Thursday. PCMC has reported 270,765 cases and 3,520 deaths due to Covid. Pune rural has reported 369,224 total cases and 7,018 deaths due to the infection. In Pune district, there are a total of 1,164,919 Covid cases. Of this, 1,142,934 patients have recovered. There has been a total of 20,126 deaths in the district. And at present, there are 1,859 active cases in Pune district. As per the state health department, 615 patients were discharged on Thursday in Maharashtra taking the total to 6,500,375 in the state. The recovery rate in the state is 97.7%. Across Maharashtra, 1,179 new cases of Covid were diagnosed on Thursday and 17 Covid deaths were reported on Thursday. The case fatality rate in the state is 2.12%. The state health department stated that of 68,117,319 laboratory samples, 6,653,345 have been tested positive till Thursday. That is 9.77% of patients till Thursday. Currently, 76,373 people are in home quarantine and 899 people are in institutional quarantine.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pune-district-reports-184-new-covid-cases-5-deaths-101640279953813.html
23-12-2021||Lucknow||PGI, IIT Kanpur inaugurate ‘Health ATM’ at IIT-K||The Indian Institute of Technology Kanpur (IIT-K) and Sanjay Gandhi Post Graduate Institute of Medical Sciences, Lucknow (PGI) jointly inaugurated a Health ATM at IIT-K on Thursday, IIT-K spokesperson Girish Pant said. The Health ATM integrates computer, biomedical diagnostics, point-of-care laboratory testing, and video conferencing systems, he added.Prof Abhay Karandikar, director of IIT-K, and Prof RK Dhiman, director, SGPGIMS Lucknow, inaugurated the system at the health centre of IIT, Kanpur. “Taking forward our collaboration with PGI Lucknow for developing solutions for affordable healthcare using telemedicine, I am happy to share that we have installed the first portable low cost, integrated platform- Health ATM (Telemedicine Kiosk), at the health centre here in IIT Kanpur,” said IIT-K director Prof Abhay Karandikar in a tweet.The benefit of telemedicine in giving access to healthcare services across geographical barriers or circumstances causing lack of physical contact with care providers has been realized by one and all during the recent Covid-19 pandemic, IIT-K spokesperson said.Pant further added that the rapid advancement of telecommunication technology and its deployment, in particular, offers a unique opportunity to deliver healthcare services over the internet using such a portable low-cost integrated platform.When operational, the system will create an electronic personal health record (PHR) for employees of the institution and their dependents. Furthermore, research on health data so generated using machine learning tools and technologies will open new avenues for predictive and personalized medicine, Pant said.The inauguration event was also attended by Prof Ganesh, deputy director at IIT-K, Prof Harish, DORD, IIT-K, head (EE) and Dr Mamta Vyas, CMO at the health centre of IIT-K, among others. Prof Laxmidhar Behera and Prof SK Mishra made a presentation about the health ATM and its use in preventive personalized health care for IIT-K residents.“A focus of our research would be to analyze the health data of all patients during recovery from Covid-19 infection to study its effects on respiratory, cardiovascular, and other body systems to identify at-risk patients and intervene at an appropriate time to prevent disastrous results,” IIT-K spokesperson, Girish Pant, said.“We are looking forward to venturing into these new areas as soon the Health ATM is operational and wish to thank SGPGI and the Government of Uttar Pradesh for its support,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/pgi-iit-kanpur-inaugurate-health-atm-at-iitk-101640279175422.html
23-12-2021||Pune||No requests of one-day licence for NY parties, say excise department||PUNE With Christmas and New Year nearing, the scare of Omicron hovers over the city’s party places. Usually, by December 15, many of the organisers announce the New Year parties around the city, but this year, the excise department has not received any requests for one-day licences from event organisers.“Unlike last year, where there were rules laid down by the state government, I am yet to receive any orders from them. We have had only some preliminary calls but nothing substantial enquiries for one-day licenses from event organisers,” said Santosh Zagade, state excise superintendent, Pune.Ajay Deshmukh, secretary Pune Wine Association said, “The uncertainty of the new variant and fear of growing numbers is keeping event planners at bay. These party organisers have to invest a lot of money for holding these New Year parties, and if the people don’t buy the passes or if government suddenly announces a ban, it will be a huge loss. The government has been unpredictable with their orders, which could be a reason for no parties this year.”However, people could opt for partying at home, with government’s decision to halve the duty on imported alcoholic products (from 300% to 150%) during the Christmas and New Year.Nita Kapoor, chief executive officer, ISWAI (International Spirits and Wines Association of India) said, “With the progressive policy announcement by the Maharashtra government slashing excise duty on imported foreign liquor by 50 per cent, it is legitimate access to better quality global brands. In a pandemic environment requiring social distancing and safeguard measures and the new threat of omicron, we may see an increase in at-home consumption replacing holidaying and large parties.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/no-requests-of-one-day-licence-for-ny-parties-say-excise-department-101640279173625.html
23-12-2021||Lucknow||BJP “Jan Vishwas Yatra” enters Prayagraj||Union minister Mahendra Nath Pandey along with UP deputy chief minister Keshav Prasad Maurya will hold a road show in Prayagraj on Friday. Pandey, who is coming to join the BJP’s ongoing “Jan Vishwas Yatra” that began from Ghazipur on December 19, along with Maurya will mobilise support in the district’s Allahabad North, Allahabad South and Allahabad West assembly constituencies during the 3km long road show, say BJP leaders aware of it.Confirming it, BJP Prayagraj city unit president Ganesh Kesarwani said earlier Union home minister Amit Shah was to come for the road show but owing to unavoidable reasons, he was unable to join. “As a result, now Union minister Mahendra Nath Pandey would lead the road show accompanied by state deputy CM Keshav Prasad Maurya,” he added.“Jan Vishwas Yatra”, a road show launched by the BJP, strives to extend party’s outreach among the public in the run-up to the state assembly polls scheduled next year. It was launched at six places across the state, including Bijnor, Mathura, Jhansi, Ghazipur, Ambedkar Nagar and Ballia on December 19.“The yatra is being held to showcase the achievements of the government during past four-and-a-half years. During it, the development that BJP government has made would be highlighted. As part of the yatra, our senior leaders are also interacting with locals,” said state BJP spokesperson Manish Shukla.The yatra, flagged off by Union minister for women and child development Smriti Irani from Ghazipur on December 19, entered Prayagraj’s trans-Yamuna region from Mirzapur late on Thursday evening and camped at Manda area for the night.On Friday, the yatra will tour Koraon, Bara and Karchhana assembly constituency areas and enter the Prayagraj city limits and tour Allahabad West, Allahabad North and Allahabad South assembly constituency areas. On December 25, the birth anniversary of former PM Atal Bihari Vajpayee being celebrated as “Good Governance Day” by the BJP, the yatra would pass through Phulpur, Handia, Pratappur, Soraon and Phaphamau assembly constituency areas. The yatra would then proceed to Kaushambi district followed by Pratapgarh district.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/bjp-jan-vishwas-yatra-enters-prayagraj-101640278994115.html
23-12-2021||Pune||Traffic changes at University square worsen at peak hour||PUNE The traffic through the Pune University Square and the connecting roads to Pashan, Baner and Ganeshkhind Road — which see some of heaviest traffic volumes in the city — was changed on experimental basis on Thursday for the proposed work on integrated project to construct a double storey flyover, grade separators and underpass.During the HT spot visit, we observed that the traffic diversions on the Savitribai Phule Pune Unīversity chowk began on a smooth note only to worsen during the peak hour returning traffic towards Baner and Pashan.Throughout the day, there was very limited stoppage of traffic except at the SPPU chowk where commuters who used to make a U –turn at the signal for going into SPPU or towards Ganeshkhind road, which led to confusion. The warden and police were on tenterhooks, managing the onslaught of one-way traffic from the now wide Baner road and dissuading the U-turn commuters, requesting them to drive further until the Millennium Gate of the University for turning.“Diversion of the traffic began at noon and initially, it was smooth flowing, but during the evening rush hour, we faced a slight problem with many of the commuters still trying to drive straight towards Baner. It will take time for commuters to get used to this one-way idea. We will be monitoring the chowk for the next few days,” said PSI Arvind Chavan, Chatuhshringi Traffic division.Traffic police Shivram Bamble who came on duty at 3pm said, “The traffic police have been pulled in from other parts of the city and they have been divided in two shifts, 7 am to 3 pm and 3 pm to 11 pm, we have a total of six police personnel along with wardens to help manage the traffic.”Many of the Baner and Balewadi residents had mixed reactions to the diversion. Vaishali Patkar, who commutes from Mhalunge said, “Usually to go to my office on Senapati Bapat road, it takes me two-three signal halts, but today because of the one way on Baner road, it was quick, but returning will be a problem as the roads are not wide at Abhimanshree society which is the connecting road to Pashan and Baner.”“Confusion about which barricaded route to follow led to traffic snarls at peak hours.The traffic coming from SB road merges together with those going towards Aundh, Baner and commuters are confused, Then there are those who are trying to make a U-turn and slowing traffic further,” said Sarang Wable.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/traffic-changes-at-university-square-worsen-at-peak-hour-101640278759280.html
23-12-2021||Bangalore||K’taka govt stands by anti-conversion bill aimed to favour the vulnerable: CM Bommai||Karnataka chief minister Basavaraj Bommai said on Thursday the anti-conversion bill that was passed in the Assembly has been framed according to the law and is meant to favour the vulnerable section. He said his government stands by the legislation, adding the bill is aimed at getting rid of the menace of religious conversion.“Vulnerable sections like SC, ST, OBC, poor people have been exploited through allurement. We want to stop that. The bill is as per the law and pro-vulnerable section. We stand by it,” Bommai told reporters.Also Read| Karnataka assembly passes contentious anti-conversion bill amid dinThe bill, titled Karnataka Protection of Right to Freedom of Religion Bill, 2021, was passed by the assembly earlier in the day amid uproar from the opposition.The bill provides for the protection of the right to freedom of religion and prohibition of unlawful conversion from one religion to another by misrepresentation, force, undue influence, coercion, allurement or by any fraudulent means. The violators will face up to three-ten years of jail time and a fine of ₹1,00,000.The Congress, which labelled the legislation as "anti-people", "inhuman", "anti-constitutional", "anti-poor" and "draconian", said it should not be passed for any reason and be withdrawn.However, the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) in Karnataka alleged that the anti-conversion bill was originally initiated by the former Congress government led by Siddaramaiah.Also Read| Karnataka minister defends anti-conversion bill, says Congress govt ordered its drafting in 2016Siddaramaiah, who is currently serving as the leader of the Opposition, first denied it, but after going through the records in the speaker's office, said that as the chief minister he had then only asked the draft bill be placed before the cabinet and no concrete decision was taken in this regard.As Siddaramaiah called the bill an agenda of the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS), Bommai said, “Certainly, there's nothing to hide. He (Siddaramaiah) himself had printed the bill and signed the draft. He's a part of it. He approved the RSS agenda in 2016 itself.”The Janata Dal (Secular) has also opposed the bill with party leader and former chief minister HD Kumaraswamy stating the state government wanted to damage certain sections by passing the bill.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/karnataka-govt-stands-by-anti-conversion-bill-aimed-to-favour-the-vulnerable-cm-101640274824954.html
23-12-2021||Pune||143 students apply for Class 11 admission post deadline||PUNE The state education department that extended the deadline for the Class 11 online admission process till December 2, has further extended the deadline to end of the year. Till Thursday, 143 students applied to get admission through the online admission process in the Pune region post the December 2 deadline. Accordingly, till now in Pune and Pimpri-Chinchwad a total of 90,821 students have registered out of which 74,193 students got admitted in 317 colleges. While 39,292 seats remained vacant out of the total 113,485 available seats.“Despite the deadline ending on December 2, we have received 143 request letters from students for allowing them to take admission in Class 11. As the deadline of the online admission process is over now, through special permission given by the head office in next week the online window for the online admission process will be done,” said Meena Shendkar, assistant director of education, Pune who is in-charge of this entire admission process.“Even after five rounds of admissions, students are giving various reasons for not being able to take admission; like someone passed away due to Covid, or was in the hometown and others cited financial issues,” added Shendkar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/143-students-apply-for-class-11-admission-post-deadline-101640278516158.html
23-12-2021||Lucknow||IIT-Kanpur to issue digital degrees at 54th convocation on December 28||The graduating students of the Indian Institute of Technology (IIT), Kanpur, will be issued digital degrees through an in-house blockchain-driven technology developed by the institute under the National Blockchain Project at the 54th convocation on December 28. Prime Minister Narendra Modi will be the chief guest at the convocation being held in a hybrid mode and will launch blockchain-based digital degrees. These digital degrees can be verified globally and are unforgeable.The same technology is being used to implement land records in some states. The distribution of the degrees in physical hard copy will be done by the respective departments later in the day in separate sessions.Governor Anandiben Patel, Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath and Union minister Dharmendra Pradhan will be the guests of honour. The ceremony will be presided over by K Radhakrishnan, chairman, board of governors, IIT, Kanpur.The graduating students will be conferred the degrees by the chairperson, senate, in the event. A total of 1723 students will be receiving their degrees comprising 183 PhD degrees; 11 MTech-PhD joint degrees; 545 postgraduate degrees (388 MTech; 50 MBA; 15 MDes; 56 MS-by Research; 36 PGPEX-VLFM); 136 Dual Degree; 157 MSc (2-Year); 27 Double Major; and 664 undergraduate degrees (560 BTech; 104 BS (4-Year)).In keeping with the flexibility that the IIT-Kanpur academic programme is known for, 233 minor degrees are being awarded in this convocation. Moreover, by spending one additional year at the institute 136, undergraduate students are graduating with a master’s degree along with their bachelors, while 27 of the undergraduate students are graduating with a second major.In addition to the degrees, 80 prizes and medals will be given in the second session of the convocation to be held later in the day. A total of 21 students will be awarded the Outstanding PhD Thesis Award in the second session of the convocation.Prof Abhay Karandikar, Director, IIT Kanpur said, “We’re glad to be able to bid adieu to the year with the convocation in the presence of invited dignitaries, including Prime Minister Narendra Modi. I wish that the outgoing students will take this moment as a threshold to enter into a world of selfless service to the nation at large.”Due to the COVID-19 pandemic, the 53rd convocation last year was held virtually for the first time in the history of IIT, Kanpur. This year, the event will be held in a hybrid mode. While about 880 students are expected to attend the convocation in-person on the campus, the remaining students will join the event remotely. The event will also be streamed live.Before his visit, Prime Minister Modi asked people to share their suggestions for his address at the convocation, in a tweet. “I look forward to being at IIT Kanpur on the 28th of this month to address the convocation ceremony. I invite everyone to share suggestions,” the Prime Minister tweeted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/iitkanpur-to-issue-digital-degrees-at-54th-convocation-on-december-28-101640278514004.html
23-12-2021||Pune||Metro work on Sambhaji bridge finally resumes||PUNE With Ganesh mandals in Pune making their stand clear about no opposition for metro work, and deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar ensuring police protection the Maharashtra Metro Rail Corporation Limited (Maha-Metro) resumed work of installing viaduct on Sambhaji bridge, popularly known as Lakdi pul in Deccan.Late on Wednesday, five Manache (most revered) Ganpati along with three other prominent Ganpati mandals held a meeting and issued a joint statement that they do not have any opposition to the height of metro rail viaduct, that some other mandals had opposed. The opposing mandals had cited lesser height as hurdle for the immersion procession. The manache mandals also released a joint statement stating that they never opposed the metro work but the message of the obstruction was passed in their name. “Now that Mandals have cleared their stand and deputy chief minister has given us police protection, we have resumed the work on Sambhaji bridge,” said Maha-Metro executive director Atul Gadgil. The Maha-Metro is executing two metro corridors -Vanaz to Ramwadi and Pimpri-Chinchwad to Swargate. The Congress and Nationalist Congress Party’s (NCP) local unit seemed isolated on the issue as they along with Shiv Sena members created ruckus in the PMC on Tuesday, stalling the work. The BJP has already made its stand clear that work should resume at Metro site. The BJP members highlighted that the NCP and Congress leaders were well aware about height of metro corridor five years before when the Detailed Project Report (DPR) was approved. “That time, Congress and NCP leaders had given nod for it. But when the work is at the last stage, they began protesting in the name of tradition,” noted another BJP member. A Congress member requesting anonymity said, “Many members are angry with the Party’s stand. The Congress unnecessarily raised the issue, even though they were well aware about the bridge height. The work was delayed because of this.” Another NCP senior leader on anonymity said, “Our party too unnecessarily supported the Congress on this issue. Ajit Pawar had very clearly instructed not to obstruct development works and indulge into politics over it. But our party protested. Now, the Ganesh mandals have stated that halting work at Sambhaji bridge was never their demand.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/metro-work-on-sambhaji-bridge-finally-resumes-101640278339011.html
23-12-2021||Pune||Paper leak nexus: Police custody of 5 accused extended||PUNE The Pune police were granted extension in the custody of Pritish Deshmukh of GA Software company, commissioner of Maharashtra State Council of Examination (MSCE) Tukaram Supe, two Harkal brothers (Ankush and Santosh) believed to be head of agents’ network, and a consultant working with the education department Abhishek Savrikar on Thursday.The extension was granted based on the email extracted from the devices seized from all the accused.While Deshmukh and Harkal brothers were arrested in the case of question paper leak of Maharashtra housing and area development authority (Mhada) recruitment examination, Supe and Savrikar were arrested for manipulating the answer sheets and results of the Teacher Eligibility Test (TET) for 2020-2018. Both the cases were heard in the court of judicial magistrate first class SJ Dolare.“One of the accused has defined the role of multiple agents in the case. Email extraction has given various links in the case. Multiple new arrests are expected as the scope of the case is increasing and they all need to be interrogated together,” said police inspector Ankush Chintaman of the cyber police station who is investigating the Mhada case.“The links of the 2018 TET case were found from the seized material and interrogation of these accused. Their further custody is necessary,” said public prosecutor Vijaysinh Jadhav.However, the defence lawyer for Deshmukh, advocate Vijaysinh Thombre said, “There has been no recovery from Deshmukh in 12 days of police custody. The devices like my laptop and phone are already seized. There is no need to keep me in police custody anymore.”Adding to his argument, advocate Pratibha Pawar, representing the Harkal brothers, said, “The only recovery form both my clients has been the laptop and phone. This is their third remand and no change has been made in the reasons for seeking remand. They are saying things for the sake of formality just to keep them in custody even though they have got sufficient opportunity for interrogation.”Deshmukh and Harkal brothers were remanded to further custody till December 25 by the court. Whereas Supe and Savrikar were remanded till December 30 by the court. Police inspector Kumar Ghadage is investigating the TET 2019-2020 case.During the hearing of the case TET 2019-2020, the defence lawyer advocate Harshad Nimbalkar claimed that the police do not need further custody of his clients - Supe and Savrikar.“The police have claimed recovery of ₹2.56 crore in cash and gold worth ₹68 lakh from Supe. Whereas in the beginning, they said that I received ₹1.75 crore,” said Nimbalkar. He further added that no recovery was made from Savrikar who was acting as a consultant and is not involved with either MSCE or GA Software companyDeshmukh is accused in at least two of the four cases registered by the cyber police of Pune. While there is no monetary recovery from him, he has been found in possession of e-documents relating to multiple exams during his arrest when he was sitting in a car with the Harkal brothers.Health department accused seeks bailSeven of the 18 arrested in the case for leaking question paper of health department group D, have applied for bail in the case as their police custody has ended. On Wednesday, three of them were denied bail by the court.Those who applied for bail have been identified as Vijay Murhade (29), Anil Gaikwad (31), Baban Mundhe (48), Sandeep Bhutekar (38), Sandeep Jagtap (28), Mahesh Botle (53), and Shyam Mhaske (38), according to public prosecutor Vijaysinh Jadhav.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/paper-leak-nexus-police-custody-of-5-accused-extended-101640278273733.html
23-12-2021||Lucknow||Last rites of soldier killed in Raj training exercise performed with state honours||The mortal remains of Havaldar Nandlal Yadav, who lost his life in an explosion during a training exercise in Suratgarh, Rajasthan, reached his native village Paharpur in Handia area of the district on Thursday. His last rites were performed with state honours. A guard of honour was also presented before the last rites.Thousands of people from the area gathered on the spot. Havaldar Nandlal belonged to the 12 Armoured Regiment and was posted at Suratgarh, Rajasthan. He is survived by two kids, including a son and a daughter, besides his wife. The deceased son Ansh, 14, lit the pyre. Along with senior officers of the Indian Army, district magistrate Sanjay Kumar Khatri, SSP Sarvshesh Tripathi and other senior officials of the district police and Bhadohi MP Ramesh Chand Bind were present to pay their last respects.Bind also gave an immediate relief of ₹10 lakh to the family of the deceased. Along with this, he announced the construction of a gate in Paharpur village in the name of Nandlal. A concrete road will also be constructed up to the house of the soldier.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/last-rites-of-soldier-killed-in-raj-training-exercise-performed-with-state-honours-101640278154225.html
23-12-2021||Lucknow||PM Modi’s vision has transformed Kashi: Yogi||Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Thursday said Prime Minister Narendra Modi ensured the physical development of Kashi while preserving its spiritual and cultural heritage. What PM Modi said about Kashi over seven years ago, he fulfilled it, the chief minister stated at a public meeting in Karakhiyaon after the PM gifted a host of projects to Varanasi.The fame of Kashi increased around the globe due to the grandeur of Kashi Vishwanath Corridor, which Prime Minister inaugurated on December 13, said Yogi Adityanath. Yogi said Kashi needed the Kashi Vishwanath Corridor for centuries, but this work couldn’t be done earlier due to lack of vision.“Now, Kashi has a grand and divine Kashi Vishwanath Dham. A huge crowd is emerging to see the Kashi Vishwanath Corridor,” Yogi said. Development works that were done in Kashi while maintaining its heritage have given a distinguished identity to Kashi and UP on the global stage, he said. All this happened because of PM Modi whose vision transformed Kashi, the chief minister added.Yogi said at the time of the inauguration of Kashi Vishwanath Dham, PM Modi had honoured the construction workers who had been engaged in the project.Today, the foundation stone of a new dairy has been laid in Varanasi it would benefit the milk producers and farmers, he added.The profit earned by Banas Dairy from the farmers is being returned by the PM in the form of bonus, he said, adding that along with this, Prime Minister Narendra Modi is giving a gift of nearly ₹2100 crore to the country and Varanasi. (PM inaugurated and laid foundation stones of projects worth ₹2095 in Varanasi on Thursday. He digitally transferred a bonus of about ₹35 crore to the bank accounts of more than 1.7 lakh milk producers.).Before the Prime Minister’s address, Yogi Adityanath expressed his gratitude to him.At the beginning of the programme, the chief minister welcomed the PM with an angavastram.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/pm-modi-s-vision-has-transformed-kashi-yogi-101640277615296.html
23-12-2021||Patna||Darbhanga rly station blast case: NIA files charge sheet||The National Investigation Agency (NIA) on Thursday filed the charge sheet in the case relating to the blast at Darbhanga railway station on June 17 this year.The low intensity blast had taken place in a parcel packet carrying a bundle of clothing booked in Secunderabad- Darbhanga express after the consignment was unloaded and was being shifted from platform number one to two.No one sustained injuries in the incident.A case was lodged at Darbhanga GRP station.The NIA took up the investigation of the case on June 26. “The probe revealed that LeT operatives had planned to set ablaze a moving long-distance train by placing incendiary Improvised Explosive Devices (IEDs)/parcel bomb in the train so that whole train catches fire and there is huge loss of life of innocent people & damage to property,” an NIA release said.The charge sheet filed in the special NIA court in Patna names five people — including brothers Mohd Nasir Malik and Imran Malik, Saleem Ahmed, Kafil Ahmad — all residents of Kairana in Shamli of Uttar Pradesh, and Iqbal Mohammed alias Kana, also a resident of Shamli and presently staying at Lahore in Pakistan. Likewise, Nasir and Imran were staying at Hyderabad in Telangana.The charge sheet was filed under relevant sections of the Indian Penal Code and the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act.“In order to execute the task, on directions of Pakistan based LeT operative Iqbal Kana, Nasir Khan and Imran Malik made IED using locally procured chemicals and placed the same in a parcel of clothes. The parcel was booked in Secunderabad-Darbhanga Express with an intention that on triggering of the Incendiary IED, the cloth parcel would ignite and further spread fire in other parcels booked in the van converting it into a large conflagration,” the NIA release said.According to charge sheet, Nasir had travelled to Pakistan and received training in espionage, handling of arms and ammunition and fabricating IEDs. He also received funds from Pakistan on various occasions. After the incident, the Pakistan-based handlers had tried to facilitate the escape of arrested accused to foreign country through Nepal, but they were apprehended before they could escape, according to release.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/darbhanga-rly-station-blast-case-nia-files-charge-sheet-101640276893533.html
23-12-2021||Patna||Brother duo held for RTI activist’s murder||BETTIAH Two brothers have been arrested in connection with the murder of a right to information (RTI) activist in East Champaran district in September this year, police said on Thursday. Addressing a press conference, superintendent of police (SP) Navin Chand Jha said the arrests were made on a tip-off about their presence in Raipatti Bhataha village under Sagauli police station limits. “The brothers were the main conspirators behind the murder of the RTI activist Vipin Agrawal,” Jha said. The duo have been identified as Ajay Singh (32) and Vijay Singh (35), sons of Jagat Singh, residents of Raipatti Bhataha village. Police saod a pistol and six live cartridges were seized from their possession. Agrawal, 46, who had exposed several cases of encroachment of government land, was shot dead by armed assailants at Harshidih in East Champaran district on September 24.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/brother-duo-held-for-rti-activist-s-murder-101640276837812.html
23-12-2021||Patna||No Omicron case in Bihar so far: Minister||Even as Bihar reported 17 positive cases of Covid-19 on Thursday, including three people who had landed in Patna from abroad, none of them are infected by the new variant Omicron, state’s health minister Mangal Pandey said. “No case of Omicron has been reported in Bihar so far. However, the government is on alert and is conducting 1.75 lakh Covid tests daily on an average. For genome sequencing, a lab has been set up at Indira Gandhi Institute of Medical Sciences,” Pandey said on Thursday.Bihar reported 86 active cases of Covid-19 in the last 24 hours. The health department said that though new cases are being reported, the recovery rate is stable. At present, the recovery rate in Bihar is at 98.32%. Bihar set to achieve 100 mn Covid vaccinations by Dec 31 According to the health department, over 95 million people in Bihar have received at least one dose of Covid-19 vaccine and the number is expected to reach the 100 million mark by the end of this month. With this figure, Bihar will be among the top five states to achieve this milestone. On Thursday, Bihar administered over 1,04,000 doses of the Covid-19 vaccine.Mansoon Mohanty, Patna district team lead of Care India, which has been engaged by the state government to drive its vaccination programme, said, “If the state achieves this mark, it will be good beginning to the New Year. Several initiatives have been taken to achieve this milestone. The government has been very actively working to drive people to the vaccination centres in several ways. The attractive offers, campaigns and lucky draw contests have encouraged many people to get vaccinated. Besides, the door-to-door vaccination drive has helped much in this initiative. Many people are also getting their shots because of the fear of the third wave.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/no-omicron-case-in-bihar-so-far-minister-101640276836328.html
23-12-2021||Patna||Engine scrap sale case: RPF recovers trucks; engineer still absconding||PURNIA: Five days after an FIR was lodged against seven people including a railway engineer for allegedly selling a vintage steam engine as ‘scrap’, the Railway Protection Force (RPF) on Wednesday recovered both the trucks, which had carried the scrap material, from Bakhtiyapur. “The scrap material, however, was missing,” said an RPF official. The accused engineer, Rajeev Rajan, is still absconding and the RPF has intensified its efforts to find him. “It appears that he has taken shelter in Nepal. We will soon arrest him along with six others against whom an FIR has been lodged,” said a person within the RPF, aware of the development. Banmankhi RPF inspector BP Mandal who is heading the investigation team said, “We have succeeded in recovering both the trucks, but the scrap material, drivers, and cleaners are still missing.” On December 14, scrap material of the vintage steam engine was lifted from Purnia court station on two trucks, allegedly at the behest of the engineer. When objected, he had shown a forged letter of a divisional mechanical engineer (DME) Samastipur. The matter came to the fore on Sunday when Purnia Court station outpost in-charge M M Rehman informed about the incident to Samastipur rail division. After an investigation, it was found that the letter shown by the engineer to lift the scrap was fake. Banmankhi RPF then lodged an FIR on December 18 against seven persons, namely, Rajeev Ranjan Jha (engineer), Sushil Kumar (helper), Md Akbar, Ram Janam Roy, Sanjeet Kumar, Manish Kumar, and driver of a pick-up van.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/engine-scrap-sale-case-rpf-recovers-trucks-engineer-still-absconding-101640276834947.html
23-12-2021||Patna||Manjhi’s party to contest in UP polls||The Hindustani Awam Morcha (Secular) led by former Bihar chief minister Jitan Ram Manjhi, which is a constituent of the ruling National Democratic Alliance (NDA) in the state, on Thursday announced its decision to contest the upcoming assembly polls in neighbouring Uttar Pradesh.Mukesh Sahni-led Vikasheel Insaan Party (VIP), also an NDA constituent in Bihar, has already announced its decision to contest UP poll, besides the Janata Dal (United) of chief minister Nitish Kumar.“We are going to contest the UP assembly polls. If we get a place in an alliance, it is fine. Else, we will contest alone,” Manjhi said.“The party office-bearers will meet any day after December 26 and take a decision on the number of seats to be contested in consultation with party’s office-bearers in UP,” said HAM-S spokesperson Danish Rizwan. HAM-S and VIP had contested on seven and 11 seats, respectively, in Bihar during 2020 assembly elections and won four each.Meanwhile, VIP has been allotted “Boat” as its election symbol by Election Commission, as it had sought for the UP elections. VIP chiefly relies on the support of fishermen and the symbol boat is synonymous with the fishermen community. Sahni, a minister in the Nitish Kumar government in Bihar, said, “We are demanding reservations for the Nishad community, as is the case in Delhi and West Bengal. My party will contest 165 seats in UP.”
23-12-2021||Lucknow||‘Prayagraj held a special place in heart of Capt Vikram Batra’||Parents of Param Vir Chakra (posthumous) awardee Captain Vikram Batra said Prayagraj always held a very special place in the heart of their son as he cleared the interview held at Services Selection Board, Prayagraj in 1996 to get into IMA Dehradun for his military training.Batra’s parents -- Girdhari Lal and Kamalkanta¬¬-- were in Prayagraj to take part in an event organised by a private educational institution of the city.The duo visited Bade Hanuman Temple on Wednesday night and met head of Baghambari Mutt Mahant Balbeer Giri and former vice-chancellor of Banaras Hindu University (BHU) Prof GC Tripathi at his residence on Thursday. Captain Batra was just 24-year-old when he made the supreme sacrifice fighting the enemy during Kargil war in 1999. An officer of the Indian Army, Batra became a household name for his valour and coining the slogan of ‘Dil Maange Mor’ during the Kargil war with Pakistan. In an informal interaction with media, the proud parents shared that on September 9, 1974, after two daughters (Seema and Nutan), two twin sons (Vikram and Vishal) were born in Palampur in Kangra district of Himachal Pradesh. Vikram got enrolled in MA English in 1996 after completing his BSc in 1995 from DAV College in Chandigarh. In 1996, he took the CDS exam and got selected by the Services Selection Board in Prayagraj. “So Prayagraj always had a special place in heart of my son,” said Girdhari Lal. Girdhari Lal has worked with Prof SM Prasad of the department of Botany, Allahabad University on some projects.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/prayagraj-held-a-special-place-in-heart-of-capt-vikram-batra-101640276594141.html
23-12-2021||Lucknow||Gadkari dedicates Meerut-Delhi Expressway to public||The second and fourth phases of Meerut-Delhi Expressway (MDE) was thrown open to public on Thursday by Union minister Nitin Gadkari. The expressway cuts the travel time between Delhi and Meerut to just 45 minutes from the earlier two-and-a-half hours.Prime Minister Narendra Modi had laid down the foundation stone of MDE in 2016 and its two phases (Sarai Kale Khan in Delhi to UP gate and Dasna to Hapur) were inaugurated earlier while the 2nd (UP gate to Dasna) and 4th phase (Dasna to Meerut) were thrown open to public on Thursday. The toll collection on the MDE would start from December 25.The Delhi-Meerut Expressway has a total length of 96km and comprises 14 lanes. The route has been divided into four phases; while the first phase connects Akshardham in the national capital to UP gate, the second is between UP gate and Dasna. The third and fourth are between Dasna and Hapur, and Dasna and Meerut, respectively.“The expressway would help in development of the area,” the road transport and highways minister said. The Union minister said Meerut was a land of bravehearts and he feels happy to visit the place. He also recalled the contribution of former Prime Minister Ch Charan Singh for farmers’ community and reiterated that soon farmers would be known as ‘Urjadaata’ as government was working on making ethanol as alternative fuel for vehicles which is produced from sugarcane and rice. Accompanied by Union minister Gen V K Singh and deputy chief minister Keshav Prasad Maurya, Gadkari also inaugurated country’s first automatic number plate reading system installed at Kashi toll plaza of MDE and intelligent traffic management system at Eastern Peripheral Expressway. This technique is being used first time in the country. The intelligent traffic management system is a revolutionary state-of-the-art technology that will help in minimizing traffic problems, prompting efficient infrastructure usage, enriching users with prior information about traffic and reducing travel time as well as enhancing safety and comfort of commuters.Addressing a gathering during a function organised at Subharti University ground here, Gadkari said “Construction of 1700 km roads in western UP was completed by spending ₹42,000 crore. Also, projects worth ₹1 lakh crore are at the stage of detailed project reports. We are currently doing work worth ₹4 lakh crore in UP hence will spent ₹5 lakh crore in UP in coming 5 years.” Earlier in the day, Gadkari along with Singh inspected under construction railway overbride at Chipiyana village in Ghaziabad and also made a brief stop at Kashi toll plaza.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/gadkari-dedicates-meerut-delhi-expressway-to-public-101640276233610.html
23-12-2021||Lucknow||UP’s active case count up to 236 as 31 more test positive||LUCKNOW As many as 31 fresh Covid cases took Uttar Pradesh’s active case tally to 236 on Thursday. Gautam Buddha Nagar reported the maximum (11) followed by Ghaziabad (7) and Lucknow (4). Varanasi, Prayagraj and Meerut reported two cases each while Agra, Kanpur and Rae Bareli accounted for one each, according to the state health department. Till now, UP had reported 1710796 Covid cases and 22,915 deaths. Among the 236 active cases, the maximum -48 were in Lucknow, 41 in Gautam Buddha Nagar and 28 in Ghaziabad. “Lucknow has seen a quick rise in the number of active cases. On December 1, there were 6 active cases and today there are 48,” said Dr Abhishek Shukla, secretary general, Association of International Doctors. Four people tested positive for Covid in Lucknow. These included a woman who returned from Kashmir recently. She had cold and cough, after which her samples were tested. Her samples will also be sent for genome sequencing. Another patient, who tested positive, had returned from Rajasthan. Of the total 48 active cases in Lucknow, two were admitted to hospital and the rest were in home isolation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/ups-active-case-count-up-to-236-as-31-more-test-positive-101640275753407.html
23-12-2021||Mumbai||Mother, son in Dombivli flee centre in Dombivli without vaccination against Covid||A Kalyan-Dombivli Municipal Corporation (KDMC) vaccination officer informed that a 29-year-old man and his mother who went for the second dose of vaccination at a centre in Dombivli allegedly fled the centre without taking the jab. The reason given was to attend nature’s call.As per the vaccination in-charge officer, Ganesh Doiphode, the man and his mother arrived at the vaccination centre near Nehru ground on Thursday morning.“They did all the formalities at the centre and before their turn arrived, they told the health workers of having to attend nature’s call. The health workers tried to convince them to get the jab done. However they fled the centre immediately. We are searching them through the contact details they have shared with us. Once we get in touch with them, we will visit their house and convince them to come to the centre and take the dose. Otherwise, we’ll give the dose at their home.”
23-12-2021||Jaipur||2 Rajasthan cops suspended for fraud, threatening female colleague||Two Rajasthan police personnel, one head constable and one constable, were terminated from service for their involvement in “immoral acts and crime”, an official said on Thursday.Director General (DG) Intelligence Umesh Mishra said head constable Praveen Godara and constable Motilal Vyas, posted in special branch, were terminated under Rajasthan civil services rules 1958 with immediate effect for “tarnishing the image of a sensitive branch like the state special branch”.Godara was involved in criminal cases including one for sending obscene messages and threatening a female police personnel in 2019.He was suspended and arrested, the police officer said.Godara remained absent for 234 days in 2020 and 300 days in 2021 without information. Another complaint against him was filed last month for threatening a woman, he said.Mishra said Vyas was dismissed from service for duping unemployed youths in the name of getting them recruitment.During his posting in Barmer, 12 cases were registered against him.After allegations of fraud involving ₹73.40 lakh were found to be true, he was terminated in December 2019 but was reinstated in the service in September 2020 on an appeal.However, he again got involved in cheating and two cases were registered in Jaipur and Barmer. Jaipur police arrested him on December 8 and sent him to judicial custody, said Mishra.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jaipur-news/2-rajasthan-cops-suspended-for-fraud-threatening-female-colleague-101640274048923.html
23-12-2021||Mumbai||With 577 cases, Mumbai reports highest numbers in 77 days||Mumbai The city reported 577 Covid cases on Thursday, the highest in around 77 days. On October 6, 624 cases were reported in the city. With this, the daily positivity rate has touched the 1.46%-mark. Though the daily positivity rate in the city has marginally increased, the data reveals that there is no significant increase in the bed occupancy rate or hospitalisation. There is only a slight increase when it comes to the occupancy rate of ventilators.The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) has maintained that the situation is under control and there is no reason to panic but need to remain vigilant.The new cases on Thursday took the toll to 768,610. The city also reported one death, pushing the toll to 16,367. The recovery rate is 97% with 746,872 recoveries and the mortality rate is at 2.12%, according to the state health department.The number of daily tests in the city has slightly gone up in the second half of December, with around 40,000 to 50,000 tests being conducted daily. However, with this, the daily positivity rate has also gone up. For example, the daily positivity rate on December 1 was 0.28%, on December 15 it was 0.54% followed by 1.08% on December 22 and 1.46% on December 23. In the same period, the number of active patients also rose marginally from around 1,900 active cases on December 1 to 2,159 on December 21.Despite these factors, there has been no significant rise or fall in the bed occupancy rate, according to BMC data. As per the data, last week the overall bed occupancy rate was 6.37% that has gone up to 6.70%, as of Wednesday.Further, when it comes to ICU beds and oxygen beds, the occupancy rate last week was 12% and 5% respectively, has remained the same on Wednesday. However, the occupancy rate in the case of ventilators has slightly gone up from 13.37% last week to 14.42%, as of Wednesday.The data of BMC further reveals that the age group of 20 to 49 years continues to remain the maximum affected. In nearly the last one week, a maximum of 698 cases were reported in the age group of 20-49.In the context of the most impacted age group, Dr Paritosh Baghel of SL Raheja Hospital in Mahim said, “Hospitalisation is across a mixed age group, mainly middle-aged people.”Further, doctors from private hospitals in the city claim that the maximum caseload is from among those individuals who are unvaccinated or not fully vaccinated.Dr Trupti Gilada, infectious disease specialist, Masina Hospital, Mumbai said, “The marginal rise in Covid cases has not reflected in the hospitals yet. The hospitalisations usually increase two to three weeks into the onset of a surge and the next few weeks will be critical.”Another doctor from a private hospital in the city said the same thing. Dr Rahul Pandit of Fortis Hospitals who is also a member of Maharashtra’s Covid taskforce, said, “Currently, the hospitalisation rate in patients who are testing positive is extremely low. It will be a couple of weeks before we can see a change in hospitalisation patterns, if at all.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/with-577-cases-mumbai-reports-highest-numbers-in-77-days-101640274073303.html
23-12-2021||Lucknow||ECI’s visit from Dec 28 to mark start of countdown to UP assembly polls||The full bench of the Election Commission of India (ECI) will begin its three-day visit to Uttar Pradesh on December 28, marking the start of the countdown to the announcement of the 2022 UP assembly polls.Chief election commissioner Sushil Chandra, election commissioners Rajiv Kumar and Anup Chandra Pandey, along with other senior officers of ECI, will review the preparations for the assembly elections in meetings with state government officers on December 28, 29 and 30. Chief electoral officer (Uttar Pradesh) Ajay Kumar Shukla said during the three-day visit, the Election Commission will review the preparations for the assembly election in a meeting with divisional commissioners, IGPs (Zone), DIGs (Range), district magistrates, superintendents of police of all the 75 districts in the state and returning officers of the 80 Lok Sabha constituencies. The ECI will also hold a meeting with the chief secretary, the director general of police and other top state government officers as well. Along with officials of the enforcement agencies, the commission will meet representatives of the various political parties.ECI will also review its instructions to the poll-bound state for the revision of electoral rolls, organisation of voter’s awareness campaign, posting of officers, drive against illegal arms and other poll related matters.The commission is likely to announce the assembly poll schedule around mid-January.During its visit, the commission will also asses the requirement of central para-military forces in the state for conducting free and fair polls in meetings with the state home department and state police officers. Like the 2017 assembly election, the 2022 assembly election in Uttar Pradesh will be held in seven phases, those in the know of things said. 
23-12-2021||Mumbai||Daily testing for Covid increases in Navi Mumbai by 12%||The average of daily testing in Navi Mumbai has been increased by 12% following which a rise in daily cases by 22% is also reported in the last one week.The weekly average cases this week were reported to be 33 as against 27 in the previous week.The average testing, too, was reported to be 10,430 as against 9,303 reported last week. The daily positivity rate is 0.14% while the overall positivity is 4.37%. Currently, the total active cases are 327 (0.30%). “There are days when the cases are above 40 but at the same time, there are days when cases are below 20. So, the conclusion that there is a surge cannot be made on the instances of a few days. If the cases remain stable at a higher number continuously, then we can call it a surge,” additional commissioner, Sanjay Kakade, said.Medical health officer, Pramod Patil, has observed that there seems to be a spread this month mainly due to the travel history and the marriage functions happening.“There definitely seems to be a spread this month. Decembers are the wedding seasons. Also, December is the month when people go for vacations. While looking at the various cases, it is found that most of them had a travel history, especially to Lonavala and Pune. The weekend trips is what is causing this spread. Because, most of the time, the mask protocol is not followed. The way the Navi Mumbai Municipal Corporation and the police in Navi Mumbai have been implementing the Covid protocols here, it is not done at other places.”Patil has, hence, notified the Urban Health Primary Centre (UHPC) heads to keep a tab of people in their vicinity who go out over the weekends and to test them after they come back.Dr Patil has also issued letters to hospitals in Navi Mumbai that promote medical tourism to inform the corporation every time they get an international patient. The corporate companies at MIDC have also been notified to inform them about the international corporates visiting them.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/daily-testing-for-covid-increases-in-navi-mumbai-by-12-101640273533121.html
23-12-2021||Mumbai||6 arrested for robbing two of Rs25L in Navi Mumbai||The Navi Mumbai crime branch Unit I has arrested six people, pretending to be police, accused of robbing two employees while transporting cash amounting to ₹25.32 lakh to their aluminium manufacturing industry in MIDC area on November 12.The police recovered ₹15.18 lakh cash along with a bike and a car used in the crime. The duo was on the way to Navi Mumbai via Airoli on a motorcycle when the accused forcefully took one of them to Eastern Express Highway and assaulted him.Immediately after the crime, five of the six accused were arrested but the main accused who had planned the crime and had the cash with him was absconding. The main accused, Imran Ismail Sidatar alias Imran Ghachi alias Shyambhai (43), was tracked when he finally thought the police were no more looking and returned to his Malad home.“One of the accused was a former driver of the owner of the aluminium firm and had given the tip to the accused. He was aware of the pattern of the work about the days when the employees collect the sales money from the clients,” Navi Mumbai Commissioner of Police, Bipin Kumar Singh, said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/6-arrested-for-robbing-two-of-rs25l-in-navi-mumbai-101640272693018.html
23-12-2021||Lucknow||UP EOW gets nod for extradition of Delhi couple from UK||LUCKNOW Nearly three years after the arrest of a Delhi businessman couple –Vir Karan Awasthy, 54, and Ritika Awasthy, 52, in London – the UP Police Economic Offences Wing (EOW) succeeded in getting the nod for their extradition from the UK in connection with multiple cases of fraud against them in Delhi and UP, said Swapnil Mamgain, SP, EOW, here on Thursday.They had allegedly duped farmers on the pretext of wheat and paddy purchase. A London court allowed the couple’s extradition after much persuasion by the EOW through the country’s nodal agency for extradition – Central Bureau of Investigation – and soon they will be brought to India to be prosecuted in cases registered against them here, he said.Central law enforcement agencies had managed extradition in several cases, but it was rare for state agencies to succeed in getting the accused extradited from abroad, said the SP.The couple was arrested in London in October 2019 in a case of cheating and criminal breach of trust lodged against them in UP’s Bulandshahr in October 2015, he said.The SP said the couple’s Delhi-based firm – Bush Foods Overseas Private Limited – had purchased wheat and paddy from a Bulandhshahr ‘Aarhtiya’ (jobber) Lokendra Singh between 2013 and 2015 without making payment of ₹1.76 crore to his firm Saurabh & Sons. Singh lodged an FIR against the couple and their firm under IPC sections 406 for criminal breach of trust and 420 for fraud on October 20, 2015.He said the couple managed to get a conditional stay on arrest from the Allahabad high court on November 11, 2015, on the condition that they deposit their passports and not leave the country. “In January 2016, the Supreme Court allowed the couple to visit London for the treatment of Vir Karan Awasthy on a personal surety of ₹86 lakh and they did not return since then,” he explained. “The court issued stern directives for the extradition of the couple when they did not return,” added the SP.The case was transferred to the EOW on March 22, 2016. The EOW was making efforts to extradite the couple since December 2016 after seeking arrest warrant from the chief judicial magistrate court of Bulandshahr. He said the red corner notice was issued for the couple’s arrest and finally they were held in October 2019 after a process of nearly three years.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/up-eow-gets-nod-for-extradition-of-delhi-couple-from-uk-101640272273153.html
23-12-2021||Mumbai||Dombivli man, 5 others arrested for stealing bikes||The Manpada police in Dombivli arrested a man who was involved in at least 46 vehicle thefts to give his wife a lavish life. The accused was newly married and sold the vehicles or sold them as scrap to earn some fast bucks. The police have also arrested five of his accomplices.According to Manpada police, the main accused, Deepak Salgare, a 30-year-old resident of Ambernath, got married during the lockdown. It was a love marriage and to make his wife happy and give her a lavish life, he started committing thefts. His accomplices – Rahul Dawre, Bablu Chauhan, Dharmdev Chauhan, Samsher Khan and Bhairavsingh Karvad – have been helping Salgare in stealing bikes and selling them as scrap or as new.Recently, there were several vehicle thefts reported in the Kalyan-Dombivli area after which Manpada police formed a team to nab the accused. Accordingly, the team started analysing CCTV footage and keeping an eye on different scrap dealers in the area. This week, police found CCTV footage of Palava area in Dombivli from which they could identify the accused while selling the bike. The team dug out all technical details and tried to reach the accused and finally arrested all six of them.DCP Sachin Gunjal said, “The accused have stolen the two-wheelers from Kalyan Bajarpeth, Bhiwandi, Manpada, Ulhasnagar, Ambernath and Daighar. Some of these bikes were sold at a lesser rate while the others were sold to scrap dealers. The accused have formed this group with Salgare as the leader to make easy money through selling these vehicles. We arrested all of them and recovered vehicles and other valuables worth ₹8.24 lakh.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/dombivli-man-5-others-arrested-for-stealing-bikes-101640270773456.html
23-12-2021||Lucknow||Some see politics of Uttar Pradesh through prism of caste, religion: PM Modi in Varanasi||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday attacked the Opposition parties and said the motto “sabka saath, sabka vikas” had never been part of the dictionary of the people who saw the politics of Uttar Pradesh only through the prism of caste, creed and religion.Instead, their dictionary contains “mafiavad” and “parivarvad”, he said.“For us, the priority is ‘sabka saath, sabka vikas,” PM Modi said.Modi also said, “Some people have heartburn when I talk about double power of double engine (BJP governments at Centre and in the state) and double development in Kashi and Uttar Pradesh. These are the people who saw the politics of Uttar Pradesh only through the prism of caste, creed, and religion. These people never wanted UP to develop, to have a modern identity. Schools, colleges, hospitals, roads, water, electricity, houses of the poor, gas connections, toilets, which have been built under sabka saath, sabka vikas, they do not consider these as development.”PM Modi also alleged that those thinking of selfish gains are not liking the development of the state.“They have an objection to the development of Purvanchal and works for Baba Vishwanath Dham. I have been told that last Sunday, 1.50 lakh pilgrims reached for darshan of Baba Vishwanath Dham,” PM Modi said.Those who pushed UP backward, their anger will further increase as people from all over the state are standing with the double engine government and giving their blessings, PM Modi said.The difference between what the people of UP got during the earlier governments and what the people of the state are getting from our government today is clear, he said.“We are also increasing the heritage in UP, we are developing the state,” PM Modi added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/some-see-politics-of-uttar-pradesh-through-prism-of-caste-religion-pm-modi-in-varanasi-101640270532958.html
23-12-2021||Mumbai||Navi Mumbai Municipal Corporation initiates plog run to spread message of cleanliness, health||The Navi Mumbai Municipal Corporation has initiated a ‘Plog Run’ in the city with the first being held in Vashi earlier this week.It is being organised to spread the message of cleanliness and health and to involve the participation of residents in Swachh Survekshan 2022. NMMC has also organised a short film and jingle contest for the same.The plog run, wherein residents picked up plastic waste from the streets and footpaths during the jog, was held in Sector 3 and 9 with over 200 participants. The 1km run fetched 210kg of plastic waste.NMMC commissioner, Abhijit Bangar, said, “While jogging is a good exercise, the participants have to sit, bend and resort to other such positions to pick up the plastic garbage. Such actions promote physical fitness and keep one healthy. We have planned a plog run in every node of the city, with at least one being held every week.”In the meantime, the short films for the contest have to be on any of the three topics – ‘My City – My Participation’, ‘Plastic-free Navi Mumbai’ and ‘3R (Reduce, Reuse, Recycle)’. The film has to be made in the NMMC jurisdiction area and should be of a two-to-five-minute duration with credits. The deadline for submission of the film is December 27 midnight with the screening planned on December 30.The jingle competition based on ‘Swachh – Sundar Navi Mumbai’ should be of one-to-three minute duration and in Marathi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/navi-mumbai-municipal-corporation-initiates-plog-run-to-spread-message-of-cleanliness-health-101640270112961.html
23-12-2021||Lucknow||Roadmap for trillion-dollar economy: 9 months on, UP govt yet to issue fresh bids to appoint consultant||LUCKNOW The Uttar Pradesh government has still not been able to appoint a consultant to work out a roadmap to make the state a trillion-dollar economy. After the task began in 2018, it floated international bids on June 19, 2019 to appoint a consultant and subsequently cancelled them on March 22, 2021, saying fresh bids will be issued soon. Nine months on, the state government has not been able to come out with fresh bids to appoint a consultant. “We have had a meeting at the chief secretary’s level. Fresh bids to appoint a consultant will be floated soon,” said a senior officer of state government. As two precious years of the five-year (2020-2025) timeline have already passed, the state government would have to come out with revised timelines to work out a roadmap to take UP’s GSDP to trillion dollars. “The target of making UP a trillion-dollar economy in five years (2020-2025) was too ambitious. Now, precious time has been lost in the bidding process. Revision of timeline will be required. Looking at the current growth trends in the state’s economy, this target can be achieved in about a decade from now,” said Professor Yashvir Tyagi, former head of department, economics, Lucknow University. Asked about UP’s economy by the end of the 2020-2025 timeline, Tyagi said: “As per my calculation, UP’s economy is likely to end up with a size of around 330 billion dollars in 2024-2025, taking into account the current size of GSDP and prevailing rupee-dollar exchange rate. It will be better if the state government chalks out a long term plan for sustainable development.” Prime Minister Narendra Modi had mooted the idea of making UP a trillion- dollar economy while inaugurating the UP Investors’ Summit in Lucknow on February 21, 2018. “Can Maharashtra and Uttar Pradesh compete with each other to become a trillion-dollar economy? Will UP government compete with other states? More the competition more will be the investment. This will result in creation of more jobs and strengthen the concept of cooperative federalism,” said Modi while inaugurating the summit. The PM’s observations had set the ball rolling for ‘trillion-dollar economy’ and the state government began holding discussions at various levels to work out a road map for its implementation. The Indian Institute of Management, Lucknow organised a programme ‘Manthan’, to impart lessons on good governance to all ministers and senior officers on September 8, 2019. Later, more learning lessons were organised at the chief minister’s residence. Subsequently, a decision to appoint a consultant to work out a roadmap to make the state a trillion-dollar economy was taken. The state government floated the bids on June 19, 2020. Following suggestions from bidders, a revised Request for Proposal (RFP) was provided with revised timelines and October 9, 2020 was set as the last date for submission of bids. The consultant to be selected was expected to work out a roadmap to make the state a trillion-dollar economy in a period of five years from 2020 to 2025. After opening of financial bids and zeroing down on selection of a bidder as consultant, the state government decided to cancel the bids vide notice dated March 22, 2021. 
23-12-2021||Lucknow||Cow is mother, sacred for us: PM Modi in Varanasi||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday said talking about cow has been made a matter of “sin” by some people but “it is mother and sacred for us”. The PM was addressing a rally in Varanasi after inaugurating and laying foundation stones of 27 projects worth ₹2095 crore, including the Banas Dairy Kashi Sankul at Uttar Pradesh State Industrial Development Authority Food Park, in Karkhiyaon, just months ahead of the assembly elections in Uttar Pradesh.He said those making fun of cows and buffaloes forget that the livelihood of eight crore families depends on “pashudhan” (livestock).“Talking about cow, talking about ‘gobardhan’ (cow dung) has been made a matter of ‘gunah’ (sin) by some people. Cow can be a sin for some people, for us it is mother, sacred (gaaye kuch logo ke liye gunah ho sakti hai, hamare liye gaaye, mata hai, poojniye hai),” Modi said.Alleging that previous governments ignored the dairy sector, Modi said strengthening and promoting this sector is one of the topmost priorities of his government. In this direction, the foundation of the Banas Dairy Kashi Sankul has been laid in Varanasi, he said.Spread across 30 acres, Banas Dairy Kashi Sankul will be built at a cost of about ₹475 crore and would process about 5 lakh litre milk per day. This is Modi’s second visit to his constituency in the past 10 days. Earlier, he had inaugurated the Kashi Vishwanath Corridor in the city on December 13.The Prime Minister digitally transferred a bonus of about ₹35 crore to the bank accounts of more than 1.7 lakh milk producers.“I firmly believe the dairy sector, animal husbandry, new energy in white revolution of the country can play a big role in changing the condition of farmers. There are many reasons for this belief. First, animal husbandry can become a huge source of additional income for the small farmers of the country, whose number is more than 100 million,” he said.“Second, India’s dairy products have a huge market abroad, in which we have a lot of potential to move forward. Third, animal husbandry is a great way for the economic uplift of women, to further their entrepreneurship. And the fourth is that our livestock is also a basis for biogas, organic farming and natural farming,” he said.Milk production in the country has increased by about 45% as compared to seven years ago, he said.“Today, India produces about 22% of the world’s milk. I am happy that today UP is not only the largest milk producing state in the country, it is also ahead in the expansion of the dairy sector,” he added.Modi also launched a portal and a logo dedicated to the Conformity Assessment Scheme of milk products developed by the Bureau of Indian Standards (BIS) with the help of the National Dairy Development Board (NDDB).An integrated logo featuring Kamdhenu cow has also been launched for certification, he said.When this proof, this logo is visible, it will be easy to identify purity and also increase the credibility of India’s milk products, he said.The PM also stressed on natural farming, saying it is the need of the hour.With the passage of time, the scope of natural farming was reduced and chemical farming became dominant, he said.“For the rejuvenation of the earth, to protect our soil and to secure the future of the coming generations, we must once again turn to natural farming,” he said. Modi also paid tribute to former Prime Minister Chaudhary Charan Singh on his birth anniversary which is celebrated as Kisan Diwas.The Prime Minister also laid foundation stones for a biogas-based electricity generation plant and a homeopathic medical college.About the projects in Varanasi, he said, “Varanasi is fast turning into a model of development. New projects are bringing unprecedented ease and convenience for the people of Varanasi.”In another effort to reduce the number of land ownership issues at the grassroots level, PM virtually distributed the rural residential rights record, “Gharauni”, under the Swamitva scheme of the Union Ministry of Panchayati Raj to over 20 lakh residents of the state.Modi also inaugurated multiple urban development projects, including six for the redevelopment of Old Kashi wards, a parking-and-surface park at Beniabag, beautification of two ponds, a sewage treatment plant and provisioning of advanced surveillance cameras at 720 locations under the Smart City Mission.Projects in the education sector inaugurated by the Prime Minister include the Union Education Ministry’s Inter University Centre for Teachers Education, built at a cost of around ₹107 crore, and a teachers’ education centre at the Central Institute of Higher Tibetan Studies, built at a cost of over ₹7 crore.He inaugurated a project comprising a doctors’ hostel, a nurses’ hostel and a shelter home, built at ₹130 crore, at Mahamana Pandit Madan Mohan Malviya Cancer Centre, a 50-bed Integrated Ayush Hospital at Bhadrasi.
23-12-2021||Pune||Pimple Gurav residents fume over MNGL gas leak cases||PUNE At least eight incidents of leakage in Maharashtra Natural Gas Limited (MNGL) gas pipelines has been reported in the Pimple Gurav area in 2021.On December 22, a tragedy was averted at the Ram Krishna chowk when a gas pipeline was damaged near parked vehicles. People came to know after the gas spread in the area which caused panic among the residents.“The gas leak incidents have become a regular affair in Pimple Gurav and when we complain to MNGL officials or Smart City officials – the blame game starts. The incidents which happened during the Ganesh festival and in July were the major ones,” said Devyani Bharambe, a resident of Shri Krishna chowk.Another resident, Vikas Gaikwad said, “Officials are not serious about issues as they have not learnt from the past mistakes. If such activities are not stopped then we are planning to raise the matter with police as we don’t get proper response from officials and gas company.”The work of the Smart City project has been going on for the last one and a half years, however, Covid-19 has severely impacted the work which is still moving at a snail’s pace. Pimple Saudagar, Pimple Gurav and Wakad have been included in the area-based development project of the Smart City. The estimated cost of the project is Rs344.54 crore.“We are not responsible for the damages which have occurred from the gas pipeline leakage in Pimple Gurav, the people who are digging roads have to remain alert as we have placed route markers at every location from where the gas line is passed. Such incidents happen due to the negligent attitude of workers who are doing these works,” said an official from MNGL at the request of anonymity.“Whenever a gas leakage incident happens, our mobile van makes sure that the pipeline is restored at the earliest. Our helpline contact number is written on the route marker,” added the official.A smart city official said, “Few incidents happened due to human errors. We are taking precautions and we will take details from the officials who are in charge during the incident.”“We are planning to put barricades near the MNGL gas route marker in advance before starting digging work so it will alert the workers,” added the official.Incidents of gas leak in Pimple Gurav (2021)May 11: Four wheelers caught fire after gas leakage in a pipeline in RamnagarJune 4: Due to ongoing work via JCB around 11pm in Shrusti chowk, gas pipeline leakage occurred, causing panic in the areaJune 10: While digging a road during concretisation work a gas line was damagedJuly 3: Near Narmada Garden, gas leakage occurredJuly 17: At Shri Krishna nagar fire sparks erupted after the gas leakageJuly 31: One injured, one vehicle got damaged due to a gas leakSeptember 14: Fifth day Ganpati immersion process was put on halt in Pimple Gurav, after gas spread in the surroundingsDecember 22: Big tragedy was averted at the Ram Krishna chowk when a gas pipeline got damaged near parked vehicles.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pimple-gurav-residents-fume-over-mngl-gas-leak-cases-101640267353044.html
23-12-2021||Pune||Travelling to Mundhwa-Keshavnagar? The tougher task is on the road||PUNE The Mundhwa-Keshavnagar stretch in east Pune has turned into a commuters nightmare. With traffic snarls and bumper-to-bumper traffic being reported all throughout the day, commuters are stuck for hours at the junction. Traffic jams happen daily between 8 am and 10 pm and sometimes stretch to 11.30 pm.Commuters are struggling to reach their destinations, both towards Ahmednagar road and also towards Hadapsar, Wanowrie, NIBM, Camp and other areas. According to civil society members , more than 10,000 two, four and other types of vehicles including trucks, trolleys and multi-axle vehicles pass through that road on a daily basis.The situation spirals out of control every day that residents who live in houses along the road have reported smoke flakes settling on the rooftops and inside the house early in the morning.A spot visit by HT revealed that Hadapsar-Kharadi bypass which passes through Mundhwa and the stretch from Mahatma Phule chowk till Lonkar School was overcrowded all throughout the day, with no or less enforcement by the traffic authorities.Residents of the area complained that traffic volume has gone up by more than 80 per cent during the past one year with no concrete steps being undertaken either by the PMC or the Pune Traffic branch to alleviate their sufferings. The residents complained of incessant honking and pollution affecting their health, with no check up being done by the PMC health department.Devidas Lonkar, an area resident said “ We have to take a one km long route to reach our house which is very troublesome. There is an urgent need to erect a grade separator or a flyover at Mahatma Phule chowk to decongest traffic. Also, the PMC must carry out free health checks for residents who are facing issues because of the faulty planning of the authorities.”Sagar Bhandari, another resident, pointed out that senior citizens, women and children were facing the worst ordeal due to PMCs inaction and lack of enforcement by the traffic authorities. “ The pollution levels are rising and authorities must carry out periodic checks and ensure that pollution levels are brought down at the earliest.”Amrita Sharma, a resident said, “Earlier there was space outside the house for children to play, now that has been taken over by the ever-expanding road. The rapid urbanisation undertaken by the PMC has resulted in a mess in Mundhwa.”DCP (Traffic) Rahul Srirame said, “We are in talks with the PMC and all the stakeholders including experts. We have taken a lot of follow ups with the authorities and will increase the number of policemen for managing traffic. Also, there are cases related to encroachments which need to be dealt with legally so that smooth flow of traffic is expected in the future.”BoxHead: For a smooth commute-Increase the number of traffic cops-CCTV surveillance-Adjusting timings of three vital signals on the stretch-Expansion of the road on Mula-Mutha river bridge-Construction of flyover or grade separator||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/travelling-to-mundhwa-keshavnagar-the-tougher-task-is-on-the-road-101640266752775.html
23-12-2021||Mumbai||May 2023 deadline set for start of Navi Mumbai’s first PG Medical College||The Navi Mumbai Municipal Corporation’s (NMMC) civic chief has set up a deadline to get its first PG Medical College by May 2023.The officials have been assigned to start the process of getting adequate faculty and infrastructure for the same phase wise.At a meeting, NMMC commissioner, Abhijit Bangar, emphasised to take necessary action to start the first batch of post-graduate (PG) course in the medical college in the academic session starting in May 2023. He directed to get the necessary government and health permits for the same and to build infrastructure, get adequate manpower and equipment for the hospital. The staff have been asked to work on the hostel and library facilities meant for the college students.“The college will not be just a provision for the students in the city but will also provide better quality healthcare to the citizens of Navi Mumbai,” Bangar added.A committee was set up under the chairmanship of additional commissioner, Dr Sanjay Kakade. The committee submitted a detailed project report to the commissioner. The meeting, which was held following the submission of the report, discussed in detail the launch of a planned medical college.“The plan is to start Medicine, Surgery, Orthopaedic, Gynecology and Paediatric branches in the first phase and other branches would be started in three phases. A separate place for the hostel will also have to be made,” Bangar added.In the first phase, medical college facilities would be started from Vashi and Airoli hospitals. The health department has been asked to take regular review meetings to keep a check on the work of the college launch.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/may-2023-deadline-set-for-start-of-navi-mumbai-s-first-pg-medical-college-101640266158104.html
23-12-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai cop assaults bar employee for refusing to serve food after 12 in the night||A video of a police officer in Mumbai abusing and assaulting an employee of a city bar for refusing to serve food early on Thursday is doing the rounds on social media.According to available reports, assistant police inspector Vikram Patil first called up the bar cashier, Ramdas Patil, asking that he be provided food when the latter informed him that the kitchen had closed for the night. A few minutes later, the policeman entered the bar, located close to the Vakola police station, and allegedly started abusing and repeatedly attacking the employee as others gathered to stop the senior officer.Maharashtra| An assistant police inspector allegedly abused& assaulted the cashier of a bar in Mumbai for refusing to serve him food: Mumbai PoliceCCTV footage of incident, which took place around 12.30am, went viral on social media platforms(Screengrab from the CCTV footage) pic.twitter.com/fubR3N7G1OAn NDTV report said other restaurant employees tried to drag the police officer away and held him back, but he still managed to land some more punches.The bar owner, Mahesh Shetty, lodged a complaint with the local police as the CCTV footage that showed the incident happened around 12.30am went viral on social media platforms."It was 12.30am when he asked for food. How can we open the establishment beyond the time limit? We have lodged a complaint against the API and will approach top officers to register an FIR," Shetty was quoted as saying by news agency PTI.A senior Mumbai Police officer said the incident took place after an argument between the cashier and the API over food. "We are verifying the facts and action will be taken against the police officer," he added.(With inputs from agencies)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-cop-assaults-bar-employee-for-refusing-food-after-12-in-the-night-101640265211471.html
23-12-2021||Chandigarh||Allahabadi Christmas cake blends creativity, cultures||A Punjabi relishing a British delight with an Awadhi twist! There couldn’t be a better tribute to the lip-smacking Allahabadi Christmas cake than this, I thought as I eyed the delectable spread on the dining table. I simply could not wait to sink my teeth into it. The aroma of Christmas cakes that lay in front of me was too hard to resist. After all Christmas, and the chance to savour the cakes, come only once a year. The Allahabadi Christmas cake is a perfect mélange of Indian and British culinary traditions and creativity, and thus, a symbol of bonhomie. The Awadhi twist granted to it by incorporating the famous ‘petha’ of Agra, is attributed to a Muslim baker and an Anglo lady of Allahabad. It is followed to a tee by the Christians possessing the recipe, which landed in my family residing in Amritsar, thanks to my maternal grandmother, who hailed from Allahabad, the city of Triveni Sangam. I fought the urge to steal a bite and waited patiently till after dinner and was rewarded with the first piece of the same. The first bite transported me into raptures of delight when my taste buds came in contact with the delicious mixture of fruit, peels, dry fruits and other ingredients marinated in rum for days. Meanwhile, my teeth romanced the ‘petha’. I have been relishing this experience for the past four decades. Yet, every Christmas season makes these cakes taste even tastier than ever before. There’s more to the Allahabadi Christmas cake than just the confluence of Anglo-Awadhi traditions. It’s a symbol of goodwill between families, friends and colleagues being a part of the process of gift-giving. I remember the time when my buddies and colleagues used to eagerly look forward to mine each Christmas. The cake, coupled with a cup of hot tea or coffee, helped us forge long-lasting ties and beautiful memories that we cherish to date. The uniqueness of the Allahabadi Christmas cake lies in the fact that it is something you simply cannot order or buy off the shelves on the spur of the moment. You have to have the proper recipe, buy, mix and prepare your ingredients as stipulated in it and get it baked at a bakery with ovens using coal furnaces to get that iconic taste. You can add your creative touch to make your confection unique. Besides, you have to book your slot and stick to it. That’s not much of an issue with the Christians of Amritsar, the food capital of India, where this Christmas tradition has received a fillip over the years. The gradually growing queues outside the few bakeries that bake these cakes, testify to people’s acceptance of this unique Christmas tradition. shaheen.parshad@gmail.com The writer is an Amritsar-based freelance contributor||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/allahabadi-christmas-cake-blends-creativity-cultures-101640264352490.html
23-12-2021||Kolkata||BJP, CPM talk more and work less, says Mamata at civic poll victory meet||Trinamool Congress (TMC) supremo and West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee on Thursday said the BJP and CPI-M leaders have a habit of “talking more and working less”.Addressing newly elected councilors of the Kolkata Municipal Corporation (KMC), Banerjee lauded the state election commission as well as the police department for peaceful conduct of polls on December 19.“The state election commission and police worked well in conducting peaceful elections,” she was quoted as saying by ANI.The chief minister also laid down a number of norms that will be followed in Kolkata for the development and upgradation of the city. Banerjee said the report card of the KMC will be prepared and evaluated after every six months and if a councilor is found not doing enough, the state government will take action against that individual.
23-12-2021||Mumbai||Traffic congestion in Kalyan, Dombivli to ease in 3-4 years: Civic chief||The traffic congestion in the twin cities of Kalyan and Dombivli will be eased in four years, claimed civic commissioner, Vijay Suryavanshi, at a joint meeting held between Kalyan-Dombivli Municipal Corporation (KDMC), Thane traffic police, Kalyan Regional Transport officials, auto union and passenger association representatives.The KDMC has undertaken major projects like SATIS at Kalyan station and installation of traffic signals and CCTVs under the smart city scheme. The work of all these projects is under way and is expected to be completed in three-four years.“With the completion of these projects, the traffic situation in the city will change to a large extent in three-four years. At the same time, all the stakeholders including KDMC, traffic and RTO have jointly decided to work to find solutions of traffic-related issues in KDMC limits,” said Suryavanshi.Some of the immediate solutions put up at the meeting were clearing the footpaths of hawkers, action against illegal parking, auto rickshaws to be parked only in auto stands, introducing one-way traffic flow and penalising violators through e-challan.Suryavanshi assured that these measures would be considered and implemented in a few months. Balasaheb Patil, DCP (traffic), Thane, said, “We have asked for traffic wardens. This will give people an idea on how difficult it is to manage traffic. An auto stand outside the Kalyan station was closed down by the Railway during the lockdown. We will approach them to reopen the same as it will help control the congestion on the station road caused by the three-wheelers.”The traffic police also have plans to impose one-ways in the city in the coming days for smooth flow of vehicles. The department also raised the need to have truck terminus in the city for heavy vehicles. The auto union representatives highlighted their demand for proper auto stands outside the railway station in the SATIS project.“There is a need to have proper stands for us in the city. At present, they are not there and that is the reason we park here and there. If a proper space is provided, we will park the auto accordingly,” said Santosh Navle, representative, Kalyan Auto Rickshaw Driver Owner Union.A passenger association representative from Dombivli, Sachin Gawli, raised the need to have more civic buses on the streets while expert Rajeev Thayshetye emphasised on clearing the footpaths and roads of encroachment.Following the demand of a dedicated auto lane for women auto drivers outside Kalyan station by the Aboli Women Rickshaw Association, the Kalyan RTO has agreed to give one in a week’s time.
23-12-2021||Mumbai||E-challan for traffic violators in Kalyan, Dombivli from January first week||From 2022, traffic violators in Kalyan-Dombivli will have to pay fines through e-challan. DCP Balasaheb Patil has informed that the department would implement the e-challan system in the twin cities from the first week of January.“The e –challan system is already used in Thane. It will help spot violators and control congestion caused by those who cut lanes or jump signals,” said Patil.The department has raised certain demands for marking the roads with stop lines wherever the signals are installed.“We have asked the civic body to mark the stop line and zebra crossing so that we can start penalising the violators. Presently, there is no marking on the roads where the signals are installed. The stop line is necessary to decide if a person has violated the traffic signal rule,” added Patil.As per the traffic police, the marking on the roads would be done in another eight to ten days.The Smart Kalyan Dombivli Corporation Limited (SKDCL) has installed traffic signals at five different locations out of the 20 locations decided as of now. The work on the installation of the remaining locations is under progress. Presently, these signals are functional. However, they are not activated for e-challan.“As per the requirement, the marking will be done soon at the five spots in a week’s time,” said an officer of SKDCL.
23-12-2021||Lucknow||Man in Lucknow gets life sentence for sexually assaulting autistic woman||LUCKNOW The special court (Ayurveda scam) on Thursday sentenced a man to life imprisonment and slapped a penalty of ₹50,000 on him after finding him guilty of sexually assaulting an autistic woman.The incident occurred three years ago when the man was 37 years old and the woman was aged 24. DNA sampling of the rape survivor’s 19-week foetus at that time and regular monitoring of the case by the prosecution helped in taking action against the accused, said Ashutosh Pandey, ADG, prosecution. He said the case was a bit different as the survivor had neurodevelopment disorder and was unable to express herself or identify the person.The convict, Khushal Singh, was the survivor’s trainer and he outraged her modesty at the training centre near Ram Ram Bank crossing in Madiaon, taking advantage of her disorder. The incident was reported to the police on November 26, 2018, after the survivor’s parents found her 19 weeks pregnant, said the ADG. Initially, investigators did not have any proper evidence against the accused as the survivor was unable to narrate the incident. The man was arrested on February 16, 2019, after his DNA sample was matched with the foetus, which was preserved after the victim’s pregnancy was terminated due to medical complications, said Pandey.He said Khushal Singh, along with his wife, runs Samarpan Day Care Foundation, in Madiaon, Lucknow. Earlier, the couple worked at different training centres for special children. The rape survivor was kept at a special children’s centre in Dehradun for 11 years as she was unable to speak and identify anyone because of her neuro-development disorder.The woman’s parents, who worked in Lucknow, brought her to the city during the summer vacation. She was kept her in the day care centre run by Khushal Singh for 10 days. After the incident, the woman, who has speech disability, could not tell her parents about it.The police first zeroed in on three suspects at the day care centre and collected blood samples to match them with the DNA sample of the foetus.“DNA sampling was done in two months’ time and it matched with that of Khushal Singh,” said the ADG, adding, “He later confessed to the crime when he was questioned. He said he raped the woman when his wife was not present at the day care centre.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/man-in-lucknow-gets-life-sentence-for-sexually-assaulting-autistic-woman-101640263692763.html
23-12-2021||Mumbai||Thane Police claim rise in conviction of cases; experts say otherwise||The Thane Police have claimed an increase in the number of convictions of cases that went for hearing in the Thane Sessions Court. However, lawyers and experts have claimed that there’s still a long way to go. The police record states that the conviction rate at present is 35% of the total cases that go for hearing. This was 25% in 2020 and 30% in 2019. The state average is 15% conviction rate in 2019 and 7.8% in 2020. The department claims the Thane rate is much more than this. Experts feel that with proper training to the police officials on evidence collection and recording statements, the rate can be much higher.In 2019, the Thane commissionerate saw conviction in 96 cases whereas in 2020 it was 24, less due to the pandemic lockdown, and in 2021, when the court had resumed only for important cases, the conviction again surged up to 107 cases in the Sessions Court of Thane. On the contrary, acquittal of cases has also increased slightly than earlier with 67 cases acquitted in 2019, 18 in 2020 and 70 this year. The conviction rate is steady despite several hurdles across the year, claimed the police. During the pandemic, most officers were infected with Covid while a few even lost their family members. Senior officials claimed that convictions are due to team efforts that involve investigation, collection of evidence, writing and documenting the evidence properly in the charge sheet, keeping an eye on the witnesses and victims to ensure they do not turn hostile, and efforts of the lawyers who fight the cases. Ashok Morale, additional commissioner of Thane police (crime), said, “Despite all odds during the pandemic, we have maintained a stable conviction of cases compared to the pre-pandemic year. One reason is the efforts of the police constables deputed to the court who are responsible for ensuring coordination between public prosecutors and investigating officers in a case. They work dedicatedly on each case assigned to them. They ensure the witnesses have received the summons and appear before the court on the scheduled date, help them in their statements, file evidence in court and complete all the needed paperwork on time.” These groups of court officers have a meeting once a month with senior officers of the police station to discuss errors and positives of the cases, he said. Morale added, “We regularly organise training sessions for these officers but due to the pandemic, these sessions were reduced. However, we ensure that the monthly meetings are held, the efforts of these officers are acknowledged and encouraged.” However, contrary to the police claims, lawyers have a different view and proper training of police officials is needed to increase convictions. Sangita Fad, a special public prosecutor with 100% convictions, said, “In my 20 years of experience, 80% to 90% acquittals are due to improper investigation. Cops need training in ensuring the FIR copy and the statement of the witnesses and victims are the same, the sections imposed and what evidence is needed to prove those sections, how the evidence should be bagged and presented. The cops also do not keep track of chemical analysis or other evidence of a case for years. There should be at least two law experts or knowledgeable officials in every police station.” Milind Mhaske, director of Praja Foundation, did a study on the pendency of court cases. He said that the police department needs more resources and manpower. “The responsibility of getting convictions lay equally with both the prosecution and the police. Our society is completely dependent on police for things like security, and also expects them to investigate. There is a huge disparity in the number of cases that are registered and the number of investigation officers we have. This has overburdened the police officer,” said Mhaske. He said that there was a talk of dividing the legal and investigation team but due to fewer resources, it did not take shape. “Secondly, prosecution and investigation officers both need training to coordinate and ideas to improve conviction rate. It is a team work and everyone is lacking in some things. The sole priority should be getting justice for the victim.” CASE STUDY – CONSTABLE PROTECTS SOLE EYE WITNESS Constable Gaurav Pachegaonkar, who works on the court cases, recently got conviction in two murders in Bhiwandi. He said, “In a case where a restaurant cook killed a waiter, the investigation officers were able to crack a young witness. My responsibility was to ensure the safety of this sole eye witness. With several approaches like arranging a different job for him, keeping him emotionally attached with the dead person’s memory and keeping regular checks on him, we got the accused convicted for life sentence.” Pachegaonkar himself was unwell at the time when the witness was called, but since the witness was attached to him, he went to support him.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/thane-police-claim-rise-in-conviction-of-cases-experts-say-otherwise-101640263332624.html
23-12-2021||Mumbai||Food for jab: BMC incentivises vaccination for ragpickers of Dharavi||Mumbai Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) has decided to distribute food grain packets as an incentive to ragpickers of Dharavi for getting vaccinated and has organised a special vaccination drive targeting this group of unorganised labour, on December 24 and 25. The food grain packets will be distributed after the ragpickers get inoculated at the vaccine centres, along with packets of hand wash, sanitisers, and masks.Approximately 2,500 rag pickers have already been identified by BMC’s G/North ward, which has jurisdiction over the Dharavi area. The civic solid waste management department started mobilisation work among ragpickers this week, with the help of local non-governmental organisations and other social groups working in Dharavi.Kiran Dighavkar, assistant commissioner of the G/North ward said, “We have identified approximately 2,000-2,500 ragpickers as beneficiaries for this drive. BMC has tied up with Clean up foundation for distribution of food grain packets.”The drive will take place at the Dharavi Pumping station, at Sant Rohidas Road, in Dharavi, between 9 am and 6 pm. To avoid crowding at the vaccination centre, BMC has distributed coupons with time slots to all rag pickers. A senior civic official said, “Each day, we plan to vaccinate 1000 beneficiaries.”“Most rag-pickers are reluctant to get health care, not just regarding Covid, but otherwise as well. They ignore their health. Covid vaccination requires registration on the Cowin portal and documentation. Ragpickers usually do not have access to devices for such registration, and may or may not have their documents in place. We already held counselling sessions with them for this. Civic officials and the NGO workers are taking care of the registration processes for each of these beneficiaries,” the officer added.Civic officials noticed that ragpickers were not keen to get vaccinated and some of them did not have sufficient information about the need and benefits of getting vaccinated. Hence, the civic body has decided to distribute food grains after the beneficiaries get their shots.Ragpickers also are most exposed to infections due to the nature of their work, and the exposure they have to their surrounding environment, civic authorities said. “To effectively break the chain of the spread of the virus, vaccination of this group is an important step,” the officer quoted above added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/food-for-jab-bmc-incentivises-vaccination-for-ragpickers-of-dharavi-101640262252260.html
23-12-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab elections: Veteran Akali leader Brahmpura, son return to SAD after 3 years||Old-time Akali leader Ranjit Singh Brahmpura, 84, who had left the Sukhbir Singh Badal-led Shiromani Akali Dal three years ago, was inducted back into the party by SAD patriarch and former chief minister Parkash Singh Badal in Chandigarh on Thursday. Also read: Punjab elections: Congress to follow one family, one ticket normBadal Senior, accompanied by his son Sukhbir and other SAD leaders, arrived at Brahmpura’s house in Chandigarh’s Sector 15 and welcomed him back into the party along with his son Ravinder Singh, a former MLA from Khadoor Sahib, Ujjagar Singh Wadali, a former minister, and Karnail Singh Peer Mohammad, a former president of the Sikh Students’ Federation. Sukhbir offered Brahmpura the number 2 post as vice-patron after Badal Senior, who is the patron. Brahmpura, however, declined the offer, saying he was not eyeing any post but wanted to strengthen the party in the run-up to the assembly elections early next year. Sukhbir said he respects Brahmpura just as he looks up to his father. “Both of them are like brothers and have fought many battles together,” he said. On Dhindsa, Sukhbir says everyone welcome backAddressing the gathering, Sukhbir said that in the past, the SAD has fought against attacks on the Panth and Punjab and would continue to do that. Answering a query on the prospects of Rajya Sabha MP Sukhdev Singh Dhindsa joining back, Sukhbir said that he welcomed everyone into the party with folded hands. He also thanked Akal Takht jathedar (head priest) Giani Harpreet Singh for calling upon all Panthic fronts to unite. Referring to the elections, Sukhbir said that the SAD was fighting the might of three governments, one in Delhi led by the Aam Aadmi Party; the Congress government in Punjab; and the BJP-led NDA government at the Centre. In reply to a query, Sukhbir reiterated that Bathinda SAD MP and his wife Harsimrat Kaur Badal will not be contesting the assembly elections. Speaking on the occasion, Badal Senior said that Brahmpura had played a vital role in his becoming the Punjab chief minister five times. He admitted shortcomings in the past that have been rectified now. “I’m happy with Brahmpura Saab’s joining Akali Dal. We are ek jaan ek maan and now there is a need to strengthen the party when it being attacked on all fronts be it religious, personal or political,” he said. He also appealed to the workers to stand united for the sake of the party and suggested Sukhbir consider the advice from Brahmpura as a ‘elahi farman’ (God’s word). Pardon to dera chief led to breakup Brahmpura had left the SAD in October 2018 after the party’s debacle in 2017, questioning the party’s leadership. He was upset with the leadership for deviating from the Panthic agenda and not taking the party members into confidence before pardoning Dera Sacha Sauda head Gurmeet Ram Rahim Singh. In March 2019, Brahmpura founded the SAD (Taksali), which he later merged with the SAD (Democratic) founded by Dhindsa, who had also resigned from SAD in 2018. Last year, both the leaders merged their outfits into a new party SAD (Sanyukt). Speaking on the occasion Brahmpura referred to Badal Senior as “Baba Bohar” whose footsteps he had followed in his entire political career. “I was on a holiday for some time and am back now. I call upon everyone to come back into the Akali Dal and contest the upcoming elections with full strength,” Brahmpura said, urging the cadre to unite. He accepted that he had committed a mistake by resigning the SAD. Party secretary general Balwinder Singh Bhundar, former MP Prem Singh Chandumajra and former ministers Mahesh Inder Singh Grewal, Sikandar Singh Maluka and Daljit Singh Cheema were also present.
23-12-2021||Delhi||Delhi police bust major fake currency racket; two persons arrested||The Delhi Police on Thursday said they have busted an international racket involved in smuggling fake Indian currency notes (FICN) into India and circulating them in Delhi and the National Capital Region (NCR). Two alleged members of the gang have been arrested with fake notes ( ₹8 lakh) in the denomination of ₹2,000. The currency was allegedly smuggled through the porous India-Bangladesh border in West Bengal. The arrested men have allegedly supplied fake notes ( ₹2 crore) in Delhi over two years.Deputy police commissioner Jasmeet Singh said the arrested men, Feroz Sheikh, 42, and Muffazul Sheikh, 52, belong to West Bengal’s Murshidabad and were arrested on Tuesday. He added in October, they received information regarding the circulation of fake notes. Singh said a team accordingly began collecting details about the persons involved and later identified two active members of the gang and kept a watch on their movements.On Tuesday, the team received inputs that Feroz Sheikh would deliver a consignment of fake notes to his associate. Accordingly, a trap was laid and the two were held.Police cited Feroz Sheikh’s Interrogation and added he procured the fake notes from one Salaam of Murshidabad. Salaam allegedly directed him to hand over the notes to Muffazul Sheikh in Delhi and their contacts in the city for circulation. The arrested accused have allegedly been circulating fake notes across the country for five years.“Feroz disclosed that Salaam used to receive the fake notes from Bangladesh. The two paid ₹30,000 in original currency notes to procure fake banknotes worth ₹1 lakh from Salaam. They further supplied that ₹1 lakh of fake notes to their contacts in Delhi-NCR and other parts of the country for ₹45,000. They confessed to having supplied FICN amounting to over ₹two crores in Delhi in the last two years,” said a second officer.Police said after the 2016 demonetisation of high-value notes, there was a pause in the circulation of FICN from Bangladesh and Pakistan for about a year. They added many syndicates have again started smuggling and circulating the FICN in India.Police said the notes seized from the two are of such fine quality that it is difficult to distinguish them from the original ones. The fake currency has almost similar security features such as texture, quality of paper, colour, security thread and watermarks.“From the investigation of various cases of big seizures of FICN in Kathmandu (Nepal), Bangladesh and in India after demonetisation, it has been strongly suspected that big consignments of FICNs are first brought into Nepal and Bangladesh from Pakistan through Gulf countries by air and from there they are smuggled into India through porous international borders of Nepal and Bangladesh,” said Singh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-police-bust-major-fake-currency-racket-two-persons-arrested-101640261052142.html
23-12-2021||Pune||Pune police arrest RTI activist Sudhir Alhat for demanding ₹50 lakh extortion money||PUNE Pune city police crime branch on Wednesday night arrested RTI activist Sudhir Alhat for allegedly demanding ₹50 lakh extortion money from a woman for taking back a complaint against a police sub-inspector who was earlier attached with Deccan Gymkhana police station. Based on the complaint from a 48-year-old woman from Kothrud, an FIR has been registered at Shivajinagar police station against RTI activist Sudhir Ramchandra Alhat and his accomplices Subhash Alias Anna Jeur, Nilesh Jagtap and Vivek Kondhave.The woman had approached Alhat after cases were registered against her husband between 2018 and 2020 at Deccan police station. Alhat had promised that he would get her some money for the harassment and said that he knew many police officers in the department. Alhat claimed to have contact with a top city police officer and even boasted about getting 32 officers suspended till date.Alhat forced the woman to file a complaint against PSI Sonawane on his letterhead and promised to get the money within eight days for harassing her. Alhat called her home and demanded ₹50 lakh to take the case back and later threatened to implicate her in the false case if his demand was not met. The woman then approached the police and lodged an FIR in connection with the incident. PSI Dattatreya Kale is investigating the case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pune-police-arrest-rti-activist-sudhir-alhat-for-demanding-rs-50-lakh-extortion-money-101640260812299.html
23-12-2021||Jaipur||Minimum temperatures rise in parts of Rajasthan||There was a spike in minimum temperatures in parts of Rajasthan on Thursday, with the mercury in Karauli setting at five degrees Celsius, the lowest in the state.Fatehpur, Chittorgarh, Churu, Dholpur, Bhilwara and Dabok recorded minimum temperatures of 5.4, 6.4, 6.6, 7.1, 7.2 and 7.4 degrees Celsius respectively.Weather officials said a western disturbance will be active in some parts of northwest India from December 24, while another will be active from December 26."Due to the effect of the system, there is a strong possibility of light to moderate rain with thundershowers at isolated places in the northern and adjoining areas of the state from December 26 to 28," a meteorological department official said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jaipur-news/minimum-temperatures-rise-in-parts-of-rajasthan-101640259353963.html
23-12-2021||Delhi||Covid-19: Stay at home, Delhi govt strengthening home isolation system, says CM Kejriwal||The Delhi government is prepared to handle about 1,00,000 Covid-19 cases a day and arrangements have been made accordingly.Addressing a press briefing on Thursday amid rise in Covid-19 cases along with the spread of the highly transmissible Omicron variant in the national capital, chief minister Arvind Kejriwal said that while there are fewer hospitalisations with the latest strain, tests have been ramped in the city state.Also Read| Delhi's religious places to remain open for prayers despite ban on celebrationsHe also reiterated his request to citizens to stay at home and not get hospitalised as long as their symptoms are mild. “If you have mild symptoms, we will treat you at the comfort of your home. We are strengthening our home isolation system. Such patients will receive a medical kit from health authorities and they will undergo tele-counseling for 10 days,” Kejriwal said.Stating that the Omicron variant spreads very quickly but has so far has had a mild effect on patients, Kejriwal said, “There are fewer hospitalisations and fewer deaths. Keeping this in mind, we have come up with a capacity to conduct 3,00,000 tests daily. Till now, we have been conducting 60,000 to 70,000 tests.”For the coming few months, the government is stocking medicines and increasing manpower, the chief minister said, adding that arrangements are being made for medical oxygen. Fifteen oxygen tankers will be delivered in the next three weeks, he said.Also Read| After Omicron's arrival, Delhi reports biggest rise in infections in 6 monthsSo far, Delhi has reported 64 cases of the Omicron variant, the second-highest tally across India. Also, 23 patients have already recovered from the variant.The government has converted four private hospitals in Delhi as dedicated Omicron-treatment centres and is sending all Covid-positive samples for genome sequencing.Meanwhile, a ban is in place on all cultural events and gatherings for Christmas and New Year. However, all religious places will remain open for prayers in adherence to Covid-19 protocols.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/stay-at-home-delhi-govt-strengthening-home-isolation-system-cm-kejriwal-101640255913003.html
23-12-2021||Delhi||Delhi's religious places to remain open for prayers despite ban on Christmas, NY celebrations||Religious places in the national capital will remain open for prayers despite restrictions on Christmas and New Year celebrations that have been imposed to check the spread of the highly transmissible Omicron variant of the coronavirus, the Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) said in an order on Thursday.Religious places will, however, have to ensure adherence to all Covid-19 related protocols such as wearing masks, maintaining social distance, hand washing and sanitisation, the DDMA said.Also Read| Delhi bans Christmas, New Year gatherings as Omicron cases rise“All religious places (temples, mosques, churches, gurudwaras etc) are already permitted to open for visitors/devotees to offer prayers/devotion/celebrations/ within such places subject to strict compliance of related SOPs issued from time to time and adherence of Covid appropriate behaviour viz. wearing of a mask, maintaining social distancing, regular hand washing and use of sanitiser etc.” the DDMA order read.#BREAKING Religious places in Delhi will remain open for prayers & visitors amid ban on New Year & Christmas celebrations, says DDMASocial distancing & Covid appropriate behavior mustIt will felicitate #Christmas celebrations with Covid protocols in churches @htTweets pic.twitter.com/tGU6gXMl3NThe order added that no separate permission is required for the above activities.On Wednesday, the DDMA banned all cultural events and gatherings for Christmas and New Year in Delhi given the gradual spread of the Omicron variant and a rise in daily tally of Covid-19 cases.Restaurants and bars have been allowed to remain open with 50 per cent seating capacity. Marriage-related gatherings are also permitted with a maximum of 200 people in attendance.Also Read| As Covid-19 cases rise, Delhi govt begins ramping up its home isolation infra"All social/political/cultural/religious/festival related gatherings are prohibited throughout NCT of Delhi... All district magistrates and DCPs shall ensure that no cultural event/gatherings/congregation takes place for celebrating Christmas or New Year in the NCT of Delhi," the DDMA had said in its order on Wednesday.Delhi is currently the second-highest contributor of Omicron cases in the country. As many as 64 people have been infected by the variant so far of whom 23 have been discharged.Meanwhile, the total number of Covid-19 cases in Delhi climbed to 14,42,515, including 25,102 deaths, 624 active cases and 14,16,789 recoveries. On Wednesday, 125 cases were reported, the highest single-day spike since June 22 while 58 patients recovered. No new deaths were reported.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhis-religious-places-to-remain-open-for-prayers-despite-ban-on-celebrations-101640253250645.html
23-12-2021||Pune||Taste of Life: Jagannath Shetty, harbinger of restaurant culture in Pune||A few years ago, I was talking with the late Charudutta Sarpotdar, the grand old man of Pune’s foodscape, when Mr Sankalp Thote, who owned a small manufacturing unit near Saswad happened to overhear our conversation. He was there to dine at Poona Guest House when Sarpotdar was recounting how Maharashtrian eateries in Pune shut down and were replaced by “Udupi hotels” like “Vaishali”. A day earlier, I had met Mr Jagannath Shetty, the man who owned the famous “Vaishali”, “Roopali”, and “Amrapali”. His eyes sparkled when he narrated how he came to Pune as a teenager with nothing in his pockets, and how he had to toil day and night to make the largely conservative people in Pune fall in love with his eateries. Thote too had fond memories of “Vaishali”. He was eight years old when he had idli with sambar at a friend’s house in 1982. It was his first time tasting the dish. He loved it and the next day demanded that his mother made it for him. Mrs Thote borrowed an “idli stand” and the recipe for sambar from a neighbour and proceeded to fulfil her son’s wish. But he was not satisfied with the dish. According to him, the idli-sambar his mother cooked came nowhere close to the one he had at the party. Upon further inquiries, it was revealed that idli-sambar at the party had been ordered from a restaurant named “Vaishali”. A few weeks later, Thote’s father took the entire family to the said restaurant. It was the family’s first time to dine in a restaurant. It was the first time that Thote’s mother had stepped inside a “posh” restaurant. Thote went there once a year with his parents to have his favourite idli-sambar. His love affair with “Vaishali” became serious once he enrolled in the Fergusson College. He had recently celebrated his son’s fifth birthday at the restaurant when I met him at Poona Guest House. Thote and thousands like him have fond memories associated with “Vaishali” and “Roopali”. Shetty’s restaurants have for years served as important, yet undervalued sites on which the relationship between Pune’s metropolitan culture and the wider world has prospered. Today, Pune seems to be perpetually engaged in eating. Go where you will between the hours of 7 in the morning and 10 in the night, and one is reminded that man is a cooking animal. Tables are always spread, odours from the kitchen are always rising, men (and sometimes, women) stand on pavements to eat. But apart from weddings and other religious ceremonies, there were very few public dining options available to Punekars, and Indians in general, till the middle of the last century. Before the First World War, restaurants in Pune were few and far between. Notions of “purity” and “impurity” ruled every aspect of living and eating out was taboo. The period before the First World War brought the first ripples of change in Pune. Several tea shops and “misal-joints” opened in the city. But they were looked down upon. They largely catered to students, small traders, and workers, who had no option but to eat out. Pune’s population growth after the Second World War was accompanied by an enlargement of the physical size of the city, and a concomitant increase in the distance between places of residence and places of employment. This rising population was accompanied by a slight increase in the number of restaurants. Pune had remained in a state of culinary insularity for most of the nineteenth and twentieth centuries. The slow emergence of the post-independence Indian middle-class signalled a new beginning for the city and its foodscape. This post-war culinary revolution in Pune was ably and successfully led by Jagannath Shetty and his restaurants. He made sure that public eating became an important aspect of the urban economy. Shetty was born on October 8, 1932, in a small village in the Udupi district in Karnataka. Like several men from the region, he too left for Mumbai to work in a restaurant. His uncle Shridhar Shetty ran a couple of restaurants in Kalyan and Pune. Jagannath Shetty was paid ₹3 per month. Men who ran the casual, café-style establishments in twentieth-century Mumbai and Pune often had begun as restaurant workers before deciding to go into business themselves. Typically located near colleges and markets, these eateries provided inexpensive “home cooking”, and served Maharashtrian dishes like “missal”, “thalipeeth”, and “ghavan”. Shetty followed in their footsteps. Four years later, he came to Pune and established “Madras Café” and “Madras Health Home”, later renamed as “Roopali” and “Vaishali” respectively. “Amrapali” was born a few years later. “Madras Café” and “Madras Health Home” served what was popularly known as “South Indian food”. In post-independence Mumbai, “South Indian food” was widely associated with migration and deemed culturally problematic. While the history of “South Indian” food’s rise to popularity in Mumbai reveals an uneasy coexistence between racism and exclusion and gradual development of appreciation, Pune embraced the first of the modern “South Indian” eateries with open arms. It was not a superficial or a cosmetic relationship, but a full acceptance of the cuisine. Restaurateurs like Gundi and Mijar were the pioneers of “South Indian food” in Poona. They served dosas and called them “ghavans” in the early twentieth century. A few eateries in Rasta Peth were the first to serve idlis in Pune. Shetty popularised these dishes. For many college students, both men and women, opportunities to eat out informally with friends at “Vaishali” and “Roopali” offered a means of shunning probing stares by the conservative society and home-cooked meals. The restaurants were approved by their parents who preferred those to the “non-veg” serving Irani restaurants. In the early restaurants of New York, London, and Calcutta, people gathered and exchanged information and ideas, and engaged in debate. In providing a space for these activities and a gathering place for information and news, these restaurants and coffeehouses also offered fertile ground for the questioning of authority, practices that were crucial to the development and survival of democracy. “Roopali” and “Vaishali” provided such space to actors, politicians, students, writers, painters, and most importantly, women, to talk and debate over dosa and coffee. Shetty’s restaurants combined the private world of the home and the public world of business, a feat very few could achieve. Elsewhere in post-independence India, the newly emergent social ritual of public dining was an overwhelmingly young, male, and working – or – middle-class phenomenon. Shetty’s restaurants made sure that they were inclusive. Women played a crucial role in the creation of this semipublic sphere, for it was their patronage that made these restaurants largely acceptable to the middle-class in Pune. Having become part of the everyday lives of many, Shetty’s restaurants have acquired a loyal mass following that had diversified to include families and a cross-class clientele. Some customers might have poked fun at the sambar served (they claimed it was not “authentic”), yet most patronised these establishments and enjoyed the cuisine on offer – regardless of it proclaimed “inauthenticity”. Even after eating houses proliferated throughout the city at the very end of the last century, “Vaishali” and “Roopali” have continued to enjoy the love and support of their customers. Jagannath Shetty’s biggest contribution to the food scene in Pune was to make public dining acceptable. His restaurants both reflected and helped to shape a new public culture in twentieth-century Pune. While the early restaurants catered mainly to the working class crowd seeking a cheap meal or snack, “Vaishali” and “Roopali” taught people to eat out for pleasure. And for this, we shall be forever grateful to him and his staff. Chinmay Damle is a research scientist and food enthusiast. He writes here on Pune’s food culture. He can be contacted at chinmay.damle@gmail.com||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/taste-of-life-jagannath-shetty-harbinger-of-restaurant-culture-in-pune-101640256431927.html
23-12-2021||Bangalore||Karnataka reports 12 new cases of Omicron, state's caseload rises to 31||12 new cases of the Omicron (B.1.1.529) variant have been detected in Karnataka, state health minister Dr K Sudhakar said on Thursday, adding that with these fresh infections, total 31 such cases have been found in the southern state thus far.Also Read | Covid-19: Nationwide caseload up by 7,495 cases; Omicron tally at 236“12 new cases of Omicron have been confirmed in Karnataka today taking the tally to 31,” the minister tweeted, sharing a list of new patients infected with the strain in the southern state. 12 new cases of Omicron have been confirmed in Karnataka today taking the tally to 31:1.20 yr female, Bengaluru2.56 yr male, Bengaluru3.54 yr female, Bengaluru4.27 yr male, Mangaluru (returning from from Ghana)1/3....#Omicron #COVID19 @BSBommai @mansukhmandviyaAmong the 12 new cases, 10 were reported from Bengaluru alone, of which seven were foreign returnees. Among those, five passengers arrived from the United Kingdom, while one each landed from Nigeria and Denmark. Also Read | Bengaluru Urban first Karnataka district to achieve 100% vaccination: MinisterOf the remaining two, Mangaluru and Mysuru reported one case each, both foreign arrivals (Ghana and Switzerland, respectively). The emergence of fresh Omicron infections in Karnataka, as well in other states, has prompted respective governments to introduce curbs ahead of the Christmas and New Year celebrations. For New Year events, the Karnataka government has made full vaccination mandatory, and permitted celebrations in clubs and restaurants, albeit at only 50 per cent of the total capacity.Also Read | No New Year celebration in public, only jabbed can visit clubs: Karnataka widens virus curbsThe restrictions will be in effect from December 30, 2021 till January 2, 2022.Later today, Prime Minister Narendra Modi will chair a meeting to review the overall Covid-19 situation in the country.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/karnataka-reports-12-new-cases-of-omicron-state-s-caseload-rises-to-31-101640254216319.html
23-12-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra panel backs longer jail terms, higher penalties in Shakti bill||Maharashtra legislature’s joint select committee (JSC) on a proposed law to prevent atrocities against women has recommended more stringent punishments than at present.For instance, under section 326A of the Indian Penal Code (IPC), the Shakti bill proposes to increase imprisonment for acid attack perpetrators from the current 10 years to life to a minimum of 15 years extendable to life along with a fine paid to the survivor.“The expenditure of plastic surgery and face reconstruction operations for the victim will be taken care of from the penalty to be charged from the accused,” state home minister Dilip Walse Patil said in the legislative assembly on Wednesday while tabling the changes recommended by the 21-member committee.The revised version of the Shakti bill is expected to be placed before the state legislature soon for approval.The state government had placed Maharashtra Shakti Criminal Law (Maharashtra Amendment) Act, 2020, and Maharashtra Exclusive Special Court (for certain offences against Women and Children under Shakti Law) in the state legislature in December 2020. It was then sent to the JSC for deliberations.The committee also recommended an increase in punishment under section 175A of the IPC for failure to share data or electronic record for the purpose of investigation by social media platforms, internet service providers to three months from one month and a fine up to ₹25 lakh from the ₹5 lakh proposed in the previous draft.The committee recommended increasing the punishment for false complaints.
23-12-2021||Other||MVA tables OBC reservation ordinances in Maharashtra assembly||MUMBAI: Weeks after the Supreme Court (SC) struck down two ordinances that permitted up to 27% reservation to other backward class (OBC) candidates in rural and urban local bodies, the Maharashtra government on Wednesday tabled both ordinances on the first day of the winter session of the state legislature. A discussion on the ordinances is expected to take place in both Houses, assembly and council, before they can be made into laws.State officials of the legal department said the government decided to table the ordinances as the SC stay did not imply that the legislative process — wherein an ordinance issued by the government has to be converted into legislation within six months before it lapsed — was also stayed.On September 23, the state promulgated an ordinance to amend two legislations — Maharashtra Zilla Parishads and Panchayat Samitis Act, 1961 and Maharashtra Village Panchayat Act for Zilla Parishads, Panchayat Samiti and Gram Panchayats — to ensure up to 27% reservation to OBC candidates. This was done after the top court struck down a legal provision that granted exactly 27% political reservation on the grounds that it exceeded the 50% ceiling when taken together with constitutionally guaranteed reservations provided to Scheduled Caste and Scheduled Tribes (SC, ST) candidates.On October 1, the state promulgated a second ordinance to amend three other laws — the Mumbai Municipal Corporation Act, Maharashtra Municipal Corporations Act and Maharashtra Municipal Councils, Nagar Panchayats and the Industrial Townships Act — which govern urban local bodies.Political reservation to OBC candidates in local body elections fall within the purview of five laws in Maharashtra; two govern rural local bodies and three govern urban local bodies. On December 6, the SC stayed both ordinances and ordered the state to complete an empirical survey that would accurately identify the extent of the OBC community’s socio-economic backwardness before assigning political reservation to them. “There was no stay imposed by the apex court on the ordinances. On December 6, it stayed the elections on seats reserved for OBC category in the local bodies while on December 13, it directed the state election commission to hold elections on the reserved seats by notifying them as general category seats,” Sachin Patel, standing counsel of the Maharashtra government in the Supreme Court, said. However, a senior official from the law and judiciary department clarified said that there was no stay on the legislative process that required an ordinance to be tabled before the state legislature within six months of promulgation. “Placing the ordinance before the state legislature is a legislative process. It has to be completed and ordinances will have to be converted as legislation otherwise they are going to be lapsed. However, no court can impose a stay on legislative process if even it has stayed the ordinances,” he said.Chief secretary Debashish Chakrabarty declined to comment on the matter.Leaders from the ruling Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA) parties said the move was also a political one, as the coalition wanted to have a discussion on the issue on the floor of the House. “We want to discuss the issue in detail which can help us counter the allegations being made against us that we were lax in the court battle,”said a senior MVA minister who did not want to be named. Meanwhile, the union ministry of social justice and empowerment in a statement issued on Monday said that it plans to file a review petition in the Supreme Court to allow political reservation of other backward classes (OBC) in local bodies and municipal corporations “for the time being” till the states meet the criteria set by the apex court.
23-12-2021||Mumbai||SIT to probe threats on social media, says Maha minister after Bengaluru arrest||MUMBAI: Maharashtra will set up a state-level special investigation team (SIT) to probe threats to politicians and activists, home minister Dilip Wasle Patil told the state assembly on Thursday after the arrest of a man for threatening Shiv Sena leader and environment minister Aaditya Thackeray.Dilip Wasle Patil also said the special team will look into measures that need to be taken to tackle the issue effectively. The minister’s announcement came in response to concerns expressed by legislators over threats being issued on social media.“Considering the sentiments and complaints of the members, a state-level SIT will be appointed to study this issue and probe incidents of threats and suggest measures for the future,” the home minister told the assembly after confirming that a man identified by the police as Jaisingh Rajput was arrested by the Mumbai crime branch’s cyber team in Karnataka capital Bengaluru, for threat messages over WhatsApp to Aaditya Thackeray.Dindoshi legislator Sunil Prabhu galuruunderscored the Karnataka connection to the threat message sent to Aaditya Thackeray. There was a Karnataka connection to the murder of social activists such as Dr Narendra Dabholkar, Govind Pansare and Gauri Lankesh as well, he said, asking if this was because it was a Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)-ruled state.Nationalist Congress Party leader and minister Nawab Malik suggested that a special team be set up to identify people behind such threats on social media, and the entities that have been funding them. The legislator, who alleged that ₹30 lakh was spent on social media campaign by an unidentified entity following the death of actor Sushant Singh Rajput, said he too has received threats and had informed the home minister about them,Picking up from where Malik left, food and civil supplies minister Chhagan Bhujbal demanded the Centre ban right-wing outfit Sanatan Sanstha which he said, have been allegedly linked to murders of rationalist Dabholkar and journalist Gauri Lankesh.Leader of opposition Devendra Fadnavis condemned the threats but questioned the effort to give it a political twist by ruling coalition lawmakers. His party colleague Sudhir Mungantiwar said that he had been given threats but rued that despite bringing this to the notice of the home minister, no security was provided.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/sit-to-probe-threats-on-social-media-says-maha-minister-after-bengaluru-arrest-101640253311580.html
23-12-2021||Chandigarh||Bikram Majithia moves Mohali court for anticipatory bail in drugs case; decision today||Mohali A day after the Union home ministry issued a lookout notice against him on the request of the Punjab Police, Shiromani Akali Dal MLA and former state minister Bikram Singh Majithia on Thursday moved a Mohali court for anticipatory bail in a drugs case registered on Monday. The court of additional district and sessions judge Sandeep Kumar Singla adjourned the case for December 24 (Friday), after the completion of arguments, and also summoned police records pertaining to the case. The plea of Majithia’s counsels Damanbir Singh Sobti and HS Dhanoa said, “The registration of the present FIR is nothing but an abuse of the process of law...in his public life, the applicant-petitioner has remained the MLA for three consecutive terms and has also had the privilege of serving as a cabinet minister in the state government, with important portfolios including Revenue, Renewable Energy, NRI Affairs etc.”It added, “There has been no allegation of any kind of misconduct in any of the decisions taken by the applicant-petitioner as a minister in any of the departments, even by the opposition. This only goes to show that the present case has been falsely and baselessly planted on the applicant-petitioner. Further none of the provisions of Sections 25, 27(a) and 29 of the NDPS Act are attracted to the facts and circumstances of the present case.”The plea added that petitioner may kindly be granted concession of anticipatory bail registered under Sections 25, 27(a) and 29 of the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act, 1985, Police Station Punjab State Crime, Mohali, in the interest of justice, equity and fair play. “The Bureau of Investigation has also seen three directors change. Police officers have been forced and coerced to falsely implicate the petitioner or face transfers, charge-sheets and dire consequences. Officers have also been induced with promotions and plum postings if they toe the line of the government,” the plea said, accusing Punjab Congress chief Navjot Singh Sidhu of indulging in “unwarranted propaganda” and deputy chief minister Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa demonstrating “intense hatred” towards him.The plea said that the previous acting DGP, Iqbal Preet Singh Sahota, was reluctant to falsely Majithia. Hence the present DGP, Siddharth Chattopadhyaya, was given the additional charge of the posy. “He was appointed only to act as a tool to advance the political interests of the present government,” Majithia claims in the plea. The plea said that the report of the special task force (STF), which is the basis of the FIR, was either superseded or merged with the subsequent report of a state government committee. But, this fact was ignored and the FIR was registered. The STF and government committee reports were only for the consumption of the high court and were mere opinion reports for the court’s own assistance. Moreover, in the entire lengthy FIR no fresh evidence has been collected or statement recorded. The plea added that in all the cases registered under the NDPS, trials have been concluded with the acquittal of some accused and the conviction of others. None of the accused made any reference to the petitioner, nor did the trial court invoke its powers to summon Majithia. The plea also referred to the controversy involving ADGP SK Asthana, claiming that he refused to investigate the matter and raised questions on whether the matter can be investigated, it being sealed before court; superseded by other reports and whether investigation can be initiated without the permission of the court.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/bikram-majithia-moves-mohali-court-for-anticipatory-bail-in-drugs-case-101640253131101.html
23-12-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab elections: Congress to follow one family, one ticket norm||The Congress has decided to follow “one family, one ticket” norm while selecting party candidates for the upcoming assembly elections in Punjab. Also read: Explosion inside Ludhiana district court complex; 2 dead, 5 injuredThe screening committee that the party’s national general secretary Ajay Maken heads took the decision to give the Congress ticket to only one member of a family at a meeting held in Delhi on Wednesday night. The two-and-a-half hour meeting of the committee tasked with the selection of candidates was attended Punjab Congress president Navjot Singh Sidhu, chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi, campaign committee chairman Sunil Jakhar, All India Congress Committee secretary in-charge of Punjab affairs Harish Chaudhary, secretary Chandan Yadav and joint secretary Krishna Allavaru. “The committee discussed all 117 assembly seats. A decision has been taken that not more than one ticket will be given to a family,” Chaudhary told journalists after the meeting, adding that the panel would meet again soon. The one family, one ticket rule is likely to dash the hopes of political families whose two or more members are eager to contest the polls on the Congress ticket. Channi’s younger brother Dr Manohar Singh, who was senior medical officer and has resigned from the service, is said to be eyeing the party ticket from Bassi Pathana assembly segment. The CM is a three-time MLA from the nearby Chamkaur Sahib segment. Similarly, brothers Partap Singh Bajwa and Fateh Jung Singh Bajwa, the sitting MLA, have staked claim over the Qadian assembly seat. Partap Bajwa, who is the Rajya Sabha member and heads the manifesto committee, is seeking to return to state politics. Fateh Jung, who has Sidhu’s backing, welcomed the decision of the screening committee, saying that being the sitting and winning candidate, he was sure the party leadership would stick by him. Cabinet ministers Tript Rajinder Singh Bajwa and Rana Gurjit Singh are also keen to push the candidature of their sons. A party leader said the committee held detailed discussions on 30-35 seats where the sitting legislators were either being considered shoo-ins or there were not many contenders for the party ticket. The screening committee is scheduled to meet again on Friday evening for another round of discussion. “The names of candidates will be announced only after they are approved by the party’s central election committee,” he added. Rival Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) and Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) have taken a headstart in announcing their candidates. The SAD has already named candidates for 87 of the 117 seats it is contesting in alliance with the BSP, which has been allocated the remaining 20, whereas the AAP has announced its candidates for 40 segments. In 2017, the Congress had got a near two-thirds majority, winning 77 seats. 
23-12-2021||Other||IAS, HAS officers to teach in govt schools of Himachal once a fortnight||The state government, in order to improve ‘standards of education in government schools, has directed the Indian Administrative Service (IAS) and Himachal Pradesh Administrative Service (HAS) officers to take classes in these schools in their jurisdiction at least once a fortnight.The instructions to this effect have been issued by chief secretary Ram Subhag Singh. The directorate of higher education has also issued a letter to all district education officers in this regard, directing them to contact the nearest administrative officers.During the review of work of the education department in August, the chief secretary had suggested administrative officers start a new initiative in the state. Administrative officers who will take classes will share their experiences with students and guide them to decide their careers.The idea is that if the administrative officers visit schools, it will help build parents’ trust in government schools. Besides, administrative officers will also get to know if there is any deficiency in the school infrastructure.“The schools will send regular reports of administrative officers’ visits which will be further submitted to the government,” said secretary education Rajiv Sharma.Meanwhile, teachers feel the initiative will have both negative and positive impact. “It is like undermining the teacher community when you say it is strengthening standard of education in government schools. Does it mean it is weak when teachers are teaching?” said a teacher on condition of anonymity.He said the government system is more to be blamed for poor results of government schools than the teachers.“The positive is that when an officer visits the school, he will come to know about the problems being faced by the teaching community and the burden of extra work they have to carry out apart from discharging their primary duty of teaching,” another teacher said.“Not many students in Himachal are opting for central and state services. Administrative officers visiting schools will definitely motivate students. It’s a good step, provided the government maintains consistency,” said Dr Mamraj Pundir, an academician.Number of IAS, IPS officers declining in tribal regionKinnaur district, which borders China, was granted tribal status in 1967 as 50% of the population there is tribal. Tribal region Kinnaur is also known as the supper achievers district. Difficult terrain, which makes life harsh, has forced people to opt for government jobs.Due to the tribal status, many officers from the region went on to become IAS, IPS officers and a large number of them availing benefits of job reservation made it to the central and other state services.“The district has produced three chief secretaries: TS Negi, BC Negi and VC Pharkha. However, now, with change in socioeconomic status, not many are opting for government jobs. The new generation has many job avenues now. In our time, it was limited. Horticulture has improved the economy,” said retired chief secretary VC Pharkha.The village of Tholang, with just 36 families in the snowbound tribal belt of Lahaul, boasts of having produced over 50 professionals — including IAS, IPS and HAS officers. Part of the Lahaul and Spiti (reserved for ST) assembly seat, the area was declared as a Scheduled Area under the fifth schedule of the Constitution as per Scheduled Areas (Himachal Pradesh) Order, 1975 (CO 102) dated November 21, 1975, which enables reservation in government jobs for residents.The village had produced its first IAS officer AN Vidyarthi in 1968, who went on to become the state’s chief secretary. However, the new generation in the tribal Lahaul and Spiti district are not opting much for government jobs.
23-12-2021||Other||Mumbai wakes up to its coolest morning of the season||MUMBAI: After recording minimum temperature at 18.6 degrees Celsius on Tuesday and Wednesday, Mumbai woke up to 17.9 degree Celsius on Thursday, marking the coolest morning of the season so far. Officials had earlier said that there will be a constant, gradual dip in the temperatures till at least December 31.“Now that some cold wave conditions have been felt in north India, and since northerly winds are blowing over Maharashtra, the north Konkan will see a slight reduction in temperatures every day. We have been waiting for good winter conditions to set in the north first,” said an official with the India Meteorological Department’s (IMD) regional forecasting centre in Mumbai.As per IMD’s seven-day forecast for Mumbai, the minimum night temperature over the next week is expected to fall to about 17 degree Celsius by December 26. The daytime maximum temperature is expected to hover between 30 and 31 degrees Celsius around the same time. This will be followed by slightly warmer conditions until early in the new year.The city’s air quality index (AQI), meanwhile, remained in the ‘poor’ category on Thursday morning at 276 (same as the day prior), as per SAFAR’s network of monitoring stations. Officials cautioned that pollution levels will spike again as temperatures fall. “It is unlikely that the AQI will show sustained improvement for the next couple of weeks. Strong winds may result in temporary relief, but as the northerly winds bring down the temperature there will be more fog, and accumulation of pollutants particularly during the early morning hours,” explained Dr Gufran Beig, project director, SAFAR.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/mumbai-wakes-up-to-its-coolest-morning-of-the-season-101640246231059.html
23-12-2021||Delhi||Rajnath Singh interacts with Indian students at Harvard||NEW DELHI: Defence minister Rajnath Singh interacted with a group of Indian students at Harvard Business School and Harvard Kennedy School in New Delhi on Wednesday. He called the students the country’s soft power, who are learning best management and governance practices at the top-class institutes in the United States, a defence ministry statement said.The statement added Singh told the students that they will play an important role in the country’s development by making the right use of their abilities, networks, and by sharing the latest best practices. He also hoped that the students will carry forward the Indian value system and act as ambassadors of the nation.The statement said that the students spoke about one of the largest vaccination drives in the fight against the Covid-19 pandemic in India, schemes such as Make in India as well as ease of doing business, and start-ups in the country.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/rajnath-singh-interacts-with-indian-students-at-harvard-101640245390879.html
23-12-2021||Noida||Noida's biggest market association opposes weekly shop closure order||Noida's Sector 18 market association on Wednesday opposed the Gautam Buddh Nagar administration's order for weekly closure of retail shops in the district.They said the closure will affect retail traders as opposed to outlets in shopping malls that are allowed to run throughout the week.District Magistrate Suhas L Y had on Monday invoked powers under the Uttar Pradesh Shops and Commercial Establishments Act, 1962, to pass an order, continuing with the once-a-week closure of retail shops and commercial establishments in Noida and Greater Noida.Different days of the week were allotted for closure in different areas and markets of the district, while multinational corporations and corporate offices were ordered to stay shut on Sunday.The market association of Sector 18, where shops have been ordered to remain shut on Tuesdays, however, opposed the direction, claiming losses to retails traders.“If this closure is implemented, it should be implemented on all shops, whether those in markets or in shopping malls. Otherwise, only the individual shop owners have to bear the losses incurred due to such closures,” Sector 18 market association president Sushil Kumar Jain said.“The district magistrate should reconsider his order so that our small traders do not have to suffer...,” Jain, also convenor of the NCR unit of Confederation of All India Traders (CAIT), said.He suggested that the administration should work out a plan so that the one-day closures are implemented across shops and commercial outlets in a given area, whether in open markets or in shopping malls.The Sector 18 market of Noida is one of the biggest revenue generators in Uttar Pradesh, housing hundreds of shops ranging from clothes, electronics, banking and finance to fast food outlets, with thousands of people thronging the area daily.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/noidas-biggest-market-association-opposes-weekly-shop-closure-order-101640240662909.html
23-12-2021||Ranchi||Jharkhand CM's sister-in-law sits on dharna at assembly gates against own govt||Jharkhand Mukti Morcha (JMM) supremo Shibu Soren's daughter-in-law and Chief Minister Hemant Soren's sister-in-law and party MLA Sita Soren on Wednesday sat on a dharna at the gates of the assembly against the policies of her own government, causing a huge embarrassment to the ruling dispensation.The Jama MLA said that she has not received satisfactory answers from the state government."I have come to the House seeking the protection of water, forest and land. In the Amrapali project of the Central Coalfields Limited, forest land is being encroached upon and coal is being illegally transported but the government is doing nothing to stop it," she said.Alleging that the state government was giving wrong answers, she demanded that the land encroached by CCL be freed.Another JMM MLA, Lobin Hembram, asked whether it was true that the Jharkhand government was planning to sell liquor."Shibu Soren speaks of prohibition but Hemant Soren is preparing to do the opposite. Nothing could be more shameful than this," the lawmaker added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ranchi-news/jharkhand-cm-s-sister-in-law-sits-on-dharna-at-assembly-gates-against-own-govt-101640235915235.html
23-12-2021||Patna||Bihar rolls out campaign to control tobacco consumption among schoolchildren||PATNA: Bihar’s education department launched a campaign on Wednesday to check tobacco consumption among school students. It held a one-day workshop with the support of Sustainable Environment and Ecological Development Society, an NGO, for making educational institutions tobacco-free. The department also nominated nodal officers from all 38 districts for monitoring the campaign at the district level.All private and government schools will have groups of students and a committee to spread awareness among students and ensure effective implementation of the campaign.Manoj Kumar, special secretary of the education department, said, “Tobacco use is injurious to health. Despite awareness of this fact, people are unable to overcome their addiction. Collective effort is required for spreading awareness.” He cited the Global Youth Tobacco Survey of 2019 and added 7.3% of the state’s youths consumed tobacco. “Of them, 6.6% were boys and 8% girls.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/bihar-rolls-out-campaign-to-control-tobacco-consumption-among-schoolchildren-101640236210372.html
23-12-2021||Kolkata||Kolkata to get its new mayor today after 19 months||West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee is likely to announce the name of the mayor of Kolkata on Thursday after a meeting with newly elected Trinamool Congress (TMC) councillors.The meeting is scheduled to take place at around 2pm. The TMC’s national general secretary Abhishek Banerjee, veteran leaders, and lawmakers are among those who will also attend it.The ruling TMC swept the Kolkata Municipal Corporation polls held on December 19 by winning 134 out of 144 wards. The Bharatiya Janata Party finished second with three seats. The Congress and the Left won two wards each.There has been speculation that minister Firhad Hakim may become the mayor again.TMC leaders said the new KMC board is likely to have some new faces and more women participation.“The chief minister and party leadership would decide on the issue. The rest is all speculation,” said a TMC leader.The civic body was being run by a board of administrators led by Hakim after the five-year tenure of the elected mayor-in-council ended in May 2020. The special arrangement was made as the civic elections could not be held due to the Covid-19 pandemic.Elections to over 100 other civic bodies across the state are also pending for over a year now. On December 6, the State Election Commission told the Calcutta high court that municipal elections in the remaining 22 districts will be held in six to eight phases by May 2022.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/kolkata-to-get-its-new-mayor-today-after-19-months-101640234950250.html
23-12-2021||Bangalore||Bengaluru Urban first Karnataka district to achieve 100% vaccination: Minister||Karnataka health minister K Sudhakar on Thursday said that Bengaluru Urban has become the first district in the state to achieve 100% coronavirus disease (Covid-19) vaccination coverage, meaning the entire population of the district has now been fully vaccinated with both doses of the Covid-19 shot. This vaccination milestone, however, is excluding the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) area in the Greater Bengaluru metropolitan zone.Taking to his official handle on Twitter, the Karnataka health minister posted, “Bengaluru Urban (excluding BBMP) has become the FIRST DISTRICT in Karnataka to achieve 100% SECOND DOSE COVERAGE! Congratulations to all the health workers and the district administration for this remarkable feat!”Sudhakar, the state health minister, also tagged Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Union health minister Mansukh Mandaviya, and Karnataka chief minister Basavaraj Bommai in his post.Bengaluru Urban (excluding BBMP) has become the FIRST DISTRICT in Karnataka to achieve 100% SECOND DOSE COVERAGE!Congratulations to all the health workers and the district administration for this remarkable feat! #COVID19 #vaccination @mansukhmandviya @BSBommai @narendramodi pic.twitter.com/y9jxuxDRZSEarlier this Tuesday, Bengaluru Urban district commissioner (DC) J Manjunath had predicted that the district was going to achieve 100% second dose vaccination coverage “in a day or two”. Speaking to reporters, the official had also allayed Omicron concerns in Karnataka by pointing out that the administration has ramped up testing while vaccination numbers remain as high as ever.“Omicron cases are rising but not at an alarming rate as we witnessed during the Delta outbreak,” the official was quoted as saying by the ANI news agency. “Nevertheless, the number of tests is going up and there is no need to panic.”Earlier on Tuesday, in view of the Omicron variant of Covid-19, Karnataka chief minister Basavaraj Bommai had said that the new year celebrations at public places will take place in a restricted manner, with celebrations allowed in restaurants and clubs with 50 per cent seating capacity and mandatory full vaccination.No special events, Disk Jockeys (DJ) will be allowed in the celebrations. The restrictions will be in effect from December 30 till January 2, Bommai had said.Meanwhile, pubs and restaurants operators in Bengaluru have urged the Karnataka government to reconsider restricting the occupancy, highlighting that the industry has been struggling for the past two years and this decision is going to hit it once again.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/bengaluru-urban-first-karnataka-district-to-achieve-100-vaccination-minister-101640231639788.html
23-12-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra to adopt e-Manas, mental healthcare software from Karnataka||Mumbai: Maharashtra is all set to adopt e-Manas, an online mental healthcare management system, that will consist of a statewide digital registry of mental health establishments, mental health professionals, persons with mental illnesses and their treatment records. Developed in collaboration with the National Institute of Mental Health and Neurosciences (NIMHANS) and the International Institute of Information Technology Bangalore (IIITB), the software is currently being used in Karnataka. A memorandum of understanding (MoU) has been drafted between NIMHANS, the Karnataka government and Maharashtra which is likely to be executed in January 2022. “Implementation of the e-Manas software will ease the access of patients to mental health facilities as well as professionals,” said Dr Kanchan Wanere, assistant director (mental health), Directorate of Health Services, Maharashtra.“It will take about two to three months to completely adapt and start working on the software,” she said. The software will be customised as per Maharashtra’s needs. The state has already sanctioned around ₹70 lakh for the customisation and technical manpower. Mandated under the Mental Healthcare Act of 2017, the e-Manas software has a clinical module for professionals, a mental healthcare directory module for registrations of facilities and professionals and a patient module where users can fill or download advanced directive applications, raise grievances in front of the Mental Health Review Board and access their treatment history. As per the Act, an individual shall have the right to make an advance directive that states how he wants to be treated if and when he suffers from a mental health issue. The individual can also nominate his representative in the advanced directive. Maharashtra has formed eight Mental Health Review Boards which will be linked to the e-Manas software. The boards will consist of the chief judicial magistrate and include other members such as a medical practitioner, a psychiatrist, two recovered psychiatric patients or caregivers and a representative of the district collector or district magistrate or deputy commissioner. Patients, caregivers or other parties can raise grievances on the software. “All practising professionals in the public and private sector will have to be registered on the software, making it easy for the patients and caregivers to choose well-qualified professionals. Records of all patients who require admission will be on this software and can be accessed or reviewed by doctors with their permission,” said Dr Wanere. Access to the patient data will be granted through one-time passwords authorised by patients. Thus, if a patient moves on to consult another doctor or migrates to another city within the state, his treatment history can be accessed by the new treating doctor. “The 2017 Act mainly pertains to in-patients, meaning those requiring admissions. All the patient data stored in the software will only be of those who have required admissions in a mental health facility or hospitals,” said Dr Vijay Maskar, a medical officer with the Directorate of Health Services. The Centre is also considering the possibility of eventually linking the software nationally so that treatment records can be accessed anywhere in the country with patients’ approval.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-to-adopt-e-manas-mental-healthcare-software-from-karnataka-101640231890137.html
23-12-2021||Mumbai||Ahead of civic elections, NGOs release ideal public health manifesto||Mumbai A real-time data system for the number of deaths, cause of deaths and prevalent diseases in the city, strengthening primary healthcare by increasing the number of dispensaries and their timings, third-party audits of the healthcare sector for better accountability are some of the points that an ideal Mumbai public health manifesto must contain, according to non-profits Mumbai First and Praja Foundation. The two organisations released their ideal manifesto on Wednesday, ahead of the civic elections in 2022. Researchers across the country, including Mumbai, have highlighted the need for real-time, granular data during the pandemic in order to understand the issues correctly and draft effective policies. “The Registration of Births and Deaths Act calls for real-time data on causes of deaths. But if we look at Mumbai, the data that is available is for 2019, even as we are a few days away from entering 2022,” said Dr Neville Mehta, chief executive officer of Mumbai First. “How will we know what’s ailing Mumbaikars if we don’t have the current data,” he said. The manifesto, prepared in consultation with nearly 20 NGOs that work in Mumbai, highlights that that city has only 199 dispensaries, even as the ideal number would be 858 given the city’s population. Of these, only 15 dispensaries remain open for 14 hours, which all the others shut at 4 pm. “How will the working-class benefit if the dispensaries shut by 4 pm, which is much before they return from work. Dispensaries should be accessible for the citizens till 10 pm,” said Mehta. The manifesto calls for private health data to be made available to the government for planning purposes, streamlining of duplication of data between various cells of the civic body such as tuberculosis cell, epidemiology cell, ward data etc. “The manifesto also recommends the incorporation of an outcome-based budget to ensure targeted development and increase in access to the primary healthcare sector of the city”, said Yogesh Mishra, research and data head, Praja Foundation. “In terms of health policies and their implementation, Mumbai needs to put in extra effort to meet its sustainable development goals for many communicable and non-communicable diseases,” he said. The NGOs plan to reach out to political parties, bureaucrats, and other authorities to promote and endorse the manifesto. BOX Ideal Mumbai public health manifesto should contain: -Budget focused on strengthening primary healthcare -Third-party audits of the city’s healthcare sector -Increase the number of dispensaries in the city -Dispensaries should remain open till 10 pm -Real-time data on the number of deaths, cause of deaths should be made available - Data on all prevalent diseases should be maintained and analysed on a real-time basis||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/ahead-of-civic-elections-ngos-release-ideal-public-health-manifesto-101640231649943.html
23-12-2021||Lucknow||Nitin Gadkari to formally inaugurate Delhi-Meerut Expressway today||Union road transport and highways minister Nitin Gadkari will be in Uttar Pradesh's Meerut on Thursday to formally inaugurate and dedicate to the nation the Delhi-Meerut Expressway, which was opened for public in April this year.Also Read | NHAI finalises toll rates for meerut e-way, ₹140 for 1-way travel by carThe expressway cuts the travel time between the two cities to just 45 minutes from the earlier two-and-a-half hours.According to Hindustan Times' sister publication Livehindustan, Gadkari, accompanied by General (retired) VK Singh, who is a Minister of State in the former's ministry, will travel from Delhi to Meerut via road. Before arriving in Meerut, the two ministers will be in Dasna, in Singh's Lok Sabha constituency, Ghaziabad, to launch the Integrated Command Control Room, which has been set up to keep an eye on activities taking place on the expressway. The control room is scheduled to be inaugurated at 11am.Gadkari and Singh will also participate in several programmes of the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI), which will take place in Meerut, Muzaffarnagar and Haridwar.The Delhi-Meerut Expressway, meanwhile, has a total length of 96km and comprises 14 lanes. The route has been divided into four phases; while the first phase connects Akshardham in the national capital to UP gate, the second is between UP gate and Dasna. The third and fourth are between Dasna and Hapur, and Dasna and Meerut, respectively.Prime Minister Narendra Modi inaugurated phase 1 of the project in April 2018.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/nitin-gadkari-to-formally-inaugurate-delhi-meerut-expressway-today-101640229078037.html
23-12-2021||Delhi||Delhi’s air quality in ‘very poor’ zone||Delhi’s air quality was in the “very poor” category on Thursday morning as the weather in the city was expected to be overcast with the mercury likely to settle at 6 degrees Celsius compared to 4.4 degrees Celsius a day earlier. The maximum temperature was expected to be 24 degrees Celsius with shallow fog in the morning.The weather in Delhi is likely to remain overcast with shallow fog in the mornings until Saturday. Very light rain or drizzle is expected on Sunday. Cold wave conditions have abated under the impact of active western disturbances from Wednesday. The weather department declares a cold day if the maximum temperature is 4.5 degrees below normal or if it is either 4.5 degrees below normal or below 4 degrees Celsius.The Air Quality Index (AQI) at 7.30am stood at 387. On Thursday, the average 24-hour AQI was 407 is in the “severe” category. PM2.5 was the dominant pollutant in Delhi’s air. An AQI between zero and 50 is considered “good”, 51 and 100 “satisfactory”, 101 and 200 “moderate”, 201 and 300 “poor”, 301 and 400 “very poor”, and 401 and 500 “severe”.An improvement in the air quality is expected from Friday. On Tuesday, the System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting and Research said the AQI indicates very poor air quality due to low mixing and ventilation throughout the day. “Moderate wind speed and low boundary layer height, which is typical of (the) winter season, is going to keep air quality very poor for next two days. An improvement is expected due to western disturbance from 24th December.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhis-air-quality-in-very-poor-zone-101640230509833.html
23-12-2021||Delhi||Omicron looms over Delhi; Kejriwal to issue guidelines after key meet today||The nationwide alert over Omicron and the approaching holiday season has left multiple states and Union territories, reporting a particularly recent surge in coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases, concerned over the appropriate measures that need to be taken in order to cut the spread of the virus. The case positivity rate in national capital Delhi has once again started to rise and in view of this, chief minister Arvind Kejriwal will be conducting an important review meeting on Thursday to assess the preparedness and management of the highly infectious new variant of the SARS-CoV-2 variant, which is said to be capable of undergoing frequent mutations.Also Read | Delhi's 1st Omicron patient talks about symptoms, treatment, past Covid caseDelhi on Wednesday recorded as many as 125 new Covid-19 cases in the span of the past 24 hours, the highest single-day increase since June 22, a time when the city was reeling under the repercussions of the second wave of the pandemic. The current case positivity rate in Delhi stands at 0.20 per cent, according to data shared by the health department. There have, however, been zero deaths due to the viral infection in this while, data showed.With this, the total number of Covid-19 cases reported so far in Delhi has increased to 14,42,515. Out of these, over 14.16 lakh have recuperated from the disease, the department said. The death toll due to Covid-19 now stands at 25,102.In December so far, Delhi has recorded four deaths due to the coronavirus infection; seven such deaths were reported in November, four in October, and five in September.As far as the Omicron situation is concerned, Delhi is actually one of the two regions in India which are contributing the highest number of cases of the new, highly contagious strain. According to the latest health ministry bulletin, both Delhi and Maharashtra have each logged 54 Omicron cases, followed closely by Telangana (20), Karnataka (19), Rajasthan (18), Kerala (15), and Gujarat (14).The total number of Omicron cases in India has crossed 200, as per the bulletin issued by the Union ministry of health and family affairs.Also Read | India's Omicron count climbs to 213; Delhi leading with 57 casesDelhi chief minister Kejriwal had earlier this week said that all samples that test positive for Covid-19 will now be sent for genome sequencing. The decision was taken at a meeting of the Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA), during which the Omicron situation – including its possible effects and steps to deal with it – was discussed, according to the chief minister.Kejriwal also said the home isolation system will be strengthened in Delhi as according to experts the Omicron variant only causes mild symptoms. He said the government has made adequate arrangements for hospital beds, oxygen, medicines, and everything else that may be needed to combat the virus.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/omicron-looms-over-delhi-kejriwal-to-issue-guidelines-after-key-meet-today-101640217029541.html
23-12-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana factory worker decamps with ₹5 lakh worth goods||The police lodged an FIR against two accused, a factory worker and his friend,who stole t-shirts, sweatshirts and clothes from a factory in industrial area-A. The accused Rahul of Jalaun,Uttar Pradesh and Faizan Ansari were captured in the CCTV cameras installed in the factoryFactory owner Ritin Gupta said the accused Rahul was his employee and used to stay in factory premises. On December 21, the accused stole t-shirts, sweatshirts and bundles of clothes worth ₹5 lakh from the factory with his accomplice.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-factory-worker-decamps-with-5-lakh-worth-goods-101640211367785.html
23-12-2021||Chandigarh||GLADA asks PSPCL stop issuing power connections to illegal colonies||Ludhiana The Greater Ludhiana Area Development Authority (GLADA) on Wednesday wrote to the chief engineer of the Punjab State Power Corporation Limited (PSPCL) to stop issuing power connections against the colonies for which an NOC has not been obtained.Officials from GLADA said the government had floated a policy for regularising illegal colonies in 2018, but several builders did not send any proper applications. They alleged that these builders went ahead with the construction of their respective colonies and were issued power connections by the concerned department without proper checking. GLADA chief administrator Rishipal Singh revealed that similar letters have also been issued to PSPCL chief engineers in Moga, Ferozepur and Shaheed Bhagat Singh (SBS) Nagar as the areas also fall under their jurisdiction.“The officials have been asked to ensure that the instructions are issued to the ground level, so that no new power connection is issued against illegal colonies. Also, steps should be taken to snap the connections issued against the illegal colonies in the recent past,” he said.Notably, hundreds of illegal colonies have come up in the areas falling under GLADA and despite the letters being issued by the body in the past. Most of these have been awarded power connections.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/glada-asks-pspcl-stop-issuing-power-connections-to-illegal-colonies-101640211307655.html
23-12-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana: Giaspura resident duped on pretext of spouse visa, costs him ₹35 lakh||A Giaspura village resident was allegedly duped of ₹35 lakh by his wife who promised to take him to Australia on spouse visa.Complainant Harpreet Singh, 24, who runs an electronics shop, said he wanted to go abroad, however, he could not get the expected bands in IELTS. Meanwhile, he got a marriage proposal from the accused Amanjot Kaur, through a middleman. Amanjot’s family told him that she had got six bands in IELTS, but due to the death of her father, they are facing financial problems.Though Harpreet’s financial condition wasn’t good either, he sold some assets and took some loans to bear the expenses of the marriage and send Amanjot abroad. He also paid her college expenses.According to the deal, after reaching Australia, Amanjot was to him abroad on a spouse visa. They got married on July 1, 2018.On January 31, 2019, Amanjot reached Australia where she enrolled into course. For two and half years, Harpreet’s family paid all the fees for her course, but Amanjot allegedly made no efforts to take her husband abroad.Harpreet alleged that he had applied for a visa twice but it was rejected as Amanjot had declared in her documents that she was unmarried.He filed a complaint to the NRI Cell of Punjab Police on June 26.Assistant sub-inspector (ASI) Pritpal Singh, who is investigating the case, said a case under Sections 420 (cheating) and 120-B (criminal conspiracy) of the Indian Penal Code has been registered against the accused at Sahnewal police station, after a probe spanning six months. The woman’s mother, Satya, and brother, Avtar Singh, have also been booked.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-giaspura-resident-duped-on-pretext-of-spouse-visa-costs-him-35-lakh-101640211247585.html
23-12-2021||Chandigarh||Molestation allegations against teacher: Ludhiana deputy DEO records statements of school authorities, students||A day after the district education department marked an inquiry against a male teacher of a government school who was accused of molesting female students, the deputy district education officer, secondary, recorded the statements of students, teachers and principal of the school concerned on Wednesday.The teacher has been transferred to a Government Boys’ School till completion of probe.The matter came to the fore after Rajinder Ghai, a member of the Ludhiana Parents’ Association, complained to the chief minister’s office on Friday. He also sent the complaint to Ludhiana deputy commissioner, Human Rights Commission chairman, Punjab education secretary, and the police commissioner of Ludhiana.Submitting his complaint, Ghai revealed that he was informed about the molestation incident by a teacher over the phone.He also alleged that despite being aware of the incident, the school principal, along with staff members, tried to conceal the matter.He further claimed that despite informing the district education officer (DEO), no immediate action was taken in the matter.DEO Lakhvir Singh refuted the allegations of delay in taking action, and stated that after the principal submitted her report on the matter, he immediately marked an inquiry and transferred the teacher to another school.“Appropriate action will be taken against the schoolteacher if found guilty as these are very serious allegations. The deputy DEO is probing the matter,” said Singh.After the principal informed the parents of the students allegedly molested by the said teacher, the matter was taken up with the local panchayat last month where the male teacher had reportedly apologised.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/molestation-allegations-against-teacher-ludhiana-deputy-deo-records-statements-of-school-authorities-students-101640211188241.html
23-12-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana: Two Phillaur residents held, 256 cartons of illegal liquor recovered||Ludhiana Two individuals were on Wednesday arrested near the Neelon Canal Bridge for smuggling illegal liquor. The police recovered 256 cartons of liquor from their possession and impounded the truck being used for transport.The accused have been identified as Jaswinder Singh and Gurmukh Ram of Phillaur, Jalandhar. Khanna senior superintendent of police (SSP) Balwinder Singh said the police recovered the alcohol after checking near the Neelon Canal Bridge a truck following a tip-off. A case under Sections 61, 1 and 14 of the Excise Act has been registered against the accused at the Samrala police station. The SSP said the Khanna police have arrested 18 people in cases of drug peddling and liquor smuggling, in 11 separate cases, since December 3. He added that the police have also recovered 50gm smack, 21kg ganjha, 500 intoxicant tablets, 160 injections, 120 intoxicant capsules, 300gm opium, 65 gm heroin and 3,084 bottles of illegal liquor in the period.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-two-phillaur-residents-held-256-cartons-of-illegal-liquor-recovered-101640210887522.html
23-12-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana central jail gets its own radio channel||To keep at bay the prisoners from society of crime, Ludhiana Central Jail now has its own radio channel, “Radio Ujala Punjab,” which was inaugurated by additional director general of police (ADGP, prison) Praveen Kumar Sinha on Wednesday. Only jail inmates will run the radio channel and prisoners who will work as ‘Radio Jockeys’ have already undergone a three-day training. Six other jails of Punjab would get their own radio channels in coming daysThe ADGP said the radio channel has been set-up in association with India Vision Foundation, which is pioneer in conducting numerous reformatory projects in prisons. He added that as a source of motivation, meditation and reformation, prison radio is set to change the lives of many who have, by chance or fate, landed in the prisons.“The prime objective is to rehabilitate and eliminate anti-social elements. Prisoners face alienation and isolation in society. We hope that providing them with a conducive atmosphere and enough welfare opportunities inside the jail will help to keep prisoners away from the society of crime,” said the ADGP.Superintendent suspended for welcoming Punjabi singer Karan Aujla During the launch of the radio channel, the jail staff allowed local industrialists and leaders to enter the premises, while the media was not allowed to enter. Earlier, on April 20, Rajiv Arora, superintendent of Ludhiana Central Jail was suspended by the ADGP for welcoming Punjabi singer Karan Aujla and giving him VVIP treatment. Karan Aujla along with his friends had visited the jail on April 8 and met jail superintendent Rajiv Arora in his office. After the incident the outsiders were not allowed to enter the jail premises.5900 mobile phones recovered in past three yearsThe ADGP said security in all jails of Punjab has been strengthened to deter influx of mobile phones and other contrabands . He claimed that no mobile phone or any other contraband enters the jails from the doors, but they are dropped in the jails over the compound walls.In the past three years, a total of 5,900 mobile phones were recovered from the jails of Punjab. In most of the cases, aides of some of the inmates used to throw the contrabands over the compound walls from outside. To deter the practice patrolling outside the jails will be started.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-central-jail-gets-its-own-radio-channel-radio-ujala-punjab-101640210827472.html
23-12-2021||Chandigarh||Job fair organised at CT University||Ludhiana The District Bureau of Employment and Enterprises (DBEE), the Punjab Skill Development Mission (PSDM) and CT University on Tuesday organised a mega job fair at the university campus, Ferozepur road.A total of 179 candidates participated in the fair, 127 of which were selected for jobs and final interviews for companies including Yes Bank, Axis Bank, ICICI Bank, SBI, Exide Life, Tekki Web, Cyber Sec Guru, Vast Linkers, Star Health and A9 Hotels among others.Graduate and postgraduate students as well as DDU students were eligible for jobs at the event, which was inaugurated by DBEE’s deputy CEO. A counsellor and placement officer interacted with the students, describing job profiles and responsibilities.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/job-fair-organised-at-ct-university-101640210768766.html
23-12-2021||Chandigarh||PSPCL junior engineer held for accepting bribe||A junior engineer (JE) of Punjab State Power Corporation Limited (PSPCL) was caught red-handed while accepting a bribe of ₹9,000 on Tuesday.The accused has been identified as Ricky Garg, posted at PSPCL, Focal Point.Gurpreet Kaur Purewal, senior superintendent of police (SSP), vigilance bureau (EO wing), said complainant Amit Kanojia of Jamalpur Colony filed a complaint stating he had applied for a new power connection. Despite repeated requests, PSPCL officials did not install a meter on his premises.He alleged that the JE, Ricky Garg, demanded ₹9,000 for the connection. The accused asked him to handover the money at his office in Focal Point.The SSP added that following the complaint, the vigilance officials laid a trap and caught the JE red-handed. A case under the Prevention of Corruption Act has been registered against the accused.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/pspcl-junior-engineer-held-for-accepting-bribe-101640210767432.html
23-12-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana: Man booked for hacking wife’s account, downloading IT return papers||A Haibowal resident has been booked for allegedly downloading the copies of his wife’s income tax returns after hacking into her account. The accused, identified as Deepak Puri of Durgapuri of Haibowal, allegedly did so counter the wife’s alimony claims.Complainant Priyanka of New Janakpuri said she had got married to Puri on January 16, 2017. She alleged that soon after marriage, the accused started harassing her for dowry, so started living separately. She lodged a dowry complaint against the accused on November 18, 2018 and subsequently also filed a domestic violence plaint, and moved court to claim alimony. She added that during the court hearings, her husband produced a copy of her income tax returns with an intention to gain advantage in the case.The woman alleged that her husband had hacked her account and downloaded the copy of her tax return. She further added that she had shown income in her account as she was planning to go abroad. Inspector Ramandeep Singh, who is investigating the case, said the woman had filed the complaint on March 30. After investigating the matter for nine months, police lodged an FIR against the accused under Sections 406 (criminal breach of trust) of the Indian Penal Code and Section 66 C of the Information Technology Act.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-man-booked-for-hacking-wife-s-account-downloading-it-return-papers-101640210707456.html
23-12-2021||Chandigarh||Harassment by neighbours, Ludhiana man tries to immolate self||Allegedly harassed by his neighbours, a resident of Dholan village set himself on fire. He was rushed to the hospital immediately, where his condition is said to be critical.A case against five persons has been registered. They have been identified as Bahadur Singh of Dholan village, his wife Paramjit Kaur, two sons Karanvir and Kaka, and a relative Harnek Singh.The complainant stated that he had bought a plot, next to Bahadur Singh’s house in Dholan village. He alleged that Bahadur Singh wanted to grab the plot and so used to harass him.On Tuesday, when he went to his plot, the accused stopped him and also threatened him. He felt humiliated and set himself on fire after pouring petrol on himself. His family members doused the flames and rushed him to the hospital.Assistant sub-inspector (ASI) Surjit Singh, who is investigating the case, said that following the complaint filed by the victim, police have booked the accused under Sections 294 (sings, recites or utters any obscene song,), 506 ( criminal intimidation) and 34 (acts done by several persons in furtherance of common intention) of Indian Penal Code at Sadar police station of Jagraon.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/harassment-by-neighbours-ludhiana-man-tries-to-immolate-self-101640210527551.html
23-12-2021||Chandigarh||Buddha Nullah pollution: Task force pulls up PPCB for delay in setting up effluent treatment plants||Ludhiana The Special Task Force (STF) constituted by the state to clean the Buddha Nullah on Wednesday criticised the Punjab Pollution Control Board (PPCB) over the delay in operationalising the Common Effluent Treatment Plant (CETP) for the dyeing industry at Tajpur road and Focal Point. Representing chief of Namdhari sect Satguru Uday Singh, who is the chairman of the taskforce, Sukhwinder Singh questioned the officials on the delay in setting up the plant, before giving directions on finding solutions for the treatment of waste being dumped into the MC sewer lines by the scattered dyeing and electroplating industries.He also highlighted the PPCB’s failure to maintain the BOD levels of the 15mld CETP established at Bahadurke road.In response, the MC officials apprised the task force officials of the progress in the 650-crore project to clean the nullah.‘MC has failed to control dairy waste’ During the meeting, Singh also criticised the MC officials for failing to deal with the dairy waste, which is being dumped into the nullah from Haibowal and Tajpur road dairy complexes. Responding to the same, mayor Balkar Sandhu, who was also participating, said action is being taken against the dairy owners for dumping waste in nullah, before adding that the capacity of biogas plant installed in Haibowal is also being increased to utilise the waste generated in dairy units. The PPCB officials revealed that the 40mld CETP for the Focal Point industry had started operating, and that 20mld of waste was already being treated at the plant and that it would be running on full capacity soon. Officials also said the plant for Tajpur road industry is also expected to start operations in the coming days.Principal secretary of the local bodies department AK Sinha, MC commissioner Pardeep Sabharwal, PPCB chief engineer Gulshan Rai also participated in the meeting.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/buddha-nullah-pollution-task-force-pulls-up-ppcb-for-delay-in-setting-up-effluent-treatment-plants-101640210347581.html
23-12-2021||Chandigarh||Now find videos of Punjab govt schools’ parent-teacher meetings on social media||Parent-teacher meetings (PTMs) are no longer just an interactive session to discuss the performance of students. The Punjab education department seems to have found a way to use these meetings to present a rosy picture of government schools. Ahead of the two-day PTM scheduled at government schools across the state, the department issued a circular, directing schools to capture the interaction between teachers and parents on video and upload these on social media platforms, to make it available to the public. Special written instructions were also given to teachers to treat parents with “utmost respect” by making seating arrangements for them and not making them wait for long.The teachers were further asked to highlight the positive characteristics of students, including good handwriting, attendance, performance in class and timely homework completion etc, in front of their parents. They were also told to motivate parents to discuss the daily lessons taught at school.A teacher at a local government school said, “It is obvious that when teachers praise the students, their parents will be elated and motivated to say good things about the school. Only positive videos will be uploaded on social media. The department is now putting a lot of emphasis on uploading these videos online.”A few teachers, however, appreciated the idea. According to them this will be an opportunity for government schools to make people aware of the change in functioning of government schools in Punjab.“Officials, teachers and students have worked really hard to bring digital reforms in government schools. Students of government schools are as smart as those at private schools. Credit should be given to the education department for uplifting the quality of education in Punjab. Through these videos, people will get to know about the immense efforts made by schools,” said Davinder Singh Chhina, principal of a local GSSS. 
23-12-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana Covid update: Class-8 student, teacher among 7 infected in city||Amid concerns over Covid spread in schools, a male student of Government Senior Secondary School, Gag Kalan in Sidhwan Bet, and a fully vaccinated male teacher of Government Senior Secondary School (Girls), Sahnewal, have tested positive for the infection. They were among the seven residents who tested positive in the district in the last 24 hours, as stated by district health officials on Wednesday. The total count of Covid cases in the Ludhiana has now reached 87,735, out of which 2,116 patients have succumbed to the disease. There were 32 active cases in the district on Wednesday.The student and teacher have tested positive during routine sampling conducted by the health department. The student is in Class 8 and had appeared for the board exam on Wednesday. The students of his class and teachers have been apprised about the development and they have been given a day off on Thursday. The teacher who has tested positive in Government School, Sahnewal, is a workshop attendant in the school and is deployed on election duty. The school authorities stated that as he remained busy with election duty, he did not come in contact with students. Civil surgeon Dr SP Singh said school authorities were apprised about the positive cases on Wednesday and the department will collect samples of their contacts on Thursday. A Class 7 student had tested positive in Government Model Senior Secondary School, Cemetery Road, last week, while a mathematics teacher of Sacred Heart Convent School, Sarabha Nagar, had succumbed to the disease earlier in this month.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-covid-update-class-8-student-teacher-among-7-infected-in-city-101640209807427.html
23-12-2021||Chandigarh||Fire safety NOC in Mohali: Three weeks after notice deadline, violators yet to comply||Over three weeks after the deadline to comply with fire department’s notices expired on November 30, over 150 violators in Mohali have yet to apply for the no-objection certificate (NOC).In October this year, the fire department had issued around 150 notices to commercial establishments in Phase 8-B to obtain the NOC after ensuring fire-safety measures on their premises. But not one has applied so far, reflecting non-compliance of fire safety instructions as well.“We have asked for a detailed list of the violators from the fire department, following which we will be sealing their units. We have given them enough chances now,” said municipal corporation commissioner Kamal Kumar Garg.However, whether any unit will be penalised remains to be seen, as MC has not acted against any violator for the past three years, despite sending out 600 notices annually.Even in February this year, 600 notices were slapped on violators, with an ultimatum of 15 days, but 10 months later, no violating structure has been sealed.Through a survey last year, the fire department had identified various properties, including high-rise buildings and commercial establishments, that did not comply with fire-safety norms. The violations included the presence of only a single entry and exit point, which could prove dangerous in an emergency.Fire extinguishers were missing on many floors and those available did not have the ISI mark. Hose reels, smoke detection alarm system and illuminated exit signs were also found missing in most buildings. Several showrooms had loose electricity wiring.At several industrial units and housing societies, there was no underground static water storage tank of 75,000-litre capacity with pump, as required under fire-safety rules, and terrace water tanks with at least 10,000-litre capacity were also missing. Absence of a fire control room and emergency lifts with firemen switch was also among the violations.Last year in March, readymade clothes worth lakhs were gutted in a fire at Vishal Mega Mart, Phase 5.A factory on Barwala Road in Dera Bassi was ravaged in December 2020. Earlier, 2019 had witnessed two major fires at industrial units in Dera Bassi, which had left 18 workers injured.
23-12-2021||Chandigarh||Coming soon, e-FIRs for vehicle thefts in Chandigarh||Come January, victims of vehicle theft in Chandigarh will be able to register FIRs from the comfort of their home. As part of the initiative to cut down delays in registering FIRs, the Chandigarh Police are all set to launch the facility of e-FIR – only for vehicle theft for starters. Sources in the police force said five to six vehicles were stolen in the city on an average every day. But because complainants were required to visit the police station to get FIRs lodged, the process often got delayed. In his Independence Day speech on August 15, the then UT administrator, VP Singh Badnore, had announced that the Chandigarh Police were in the process of developing a mobile app for registration of e-FIRs in case of vehicle theft. In a step closer to making the facility a reality, the UT home secretary had issued a notification of setting up an e-police station on November 30. A designated court to deal with these FIRs will also be notified soon. “Online FIRs will help cut down the inconvenience caused to the victims. They will be able to file the complaint and check its status on the police website. This will also smoothen the process of insurance claims,” said superintendent of police (SP, City) Ketan Bansal.How will it work In case of vehicle theft, the complainant would need to fill up a form on the Chandigarh Police website The complaint will be marked to the police station concerned, following which the investigating officer will visit the complainant for verification In case the vehicle remains untraced after 21 days, a report will be sent to the court.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/coming-soon-e-firs-for-vehicle-thefts-in-chandigarh-101640209627367.html
23-12-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh tricity logs 19 Covid cases for second day in a row||Tricity’s daily Covid-19 count remained 19 for the second consecutive day. Maximum of eight cases were reported from Panchkula, followed by five from Chandigarh and two from Mohali.However, no Covid-related fatality was reported.In Mohali, four cases were reported from Dhakoli, while one each case surfaced in Mohali city and Kharar. Those found infected in Chandigarh are residents of Sectors 19, 21 and 38, and Industrial Area.The latest infections pushed tricity’s active caseload to 189, with as many as 99 patients still infected in Chandigarh, 47 in Panchkula and 43 in Mohali.With this, Chandigarh’s total cases till date have reached 65,731. While 64,554 patients have recovered, 1,078 have lost the battle to the virus. In Mohali, among the total 69,075 cases, 67,958 patients have been cured and 1,074 have succumbed. Of the 30,921 infections logged in Panchkula so far, 30,493 people have beaten the virus and 381 have died. Four students among seven cases in Ambala Ambala As many as four students of a government school were among the seven Covid-19 cases that surfaced in Ambala on Wednesday, the highest single-day spike in over 100 days. District epidemiologist Dr Sunil Hari said the students were from the same class. “They are asymptomatic and have no travel history. Two other patients, both elderly, are from Ambala Cantt and Ambala City,” Dr Hari added. “The students were found infected during a regular community surveillance activity. A total of 250 students were sampled. Contacts of the positive students are being traced,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-tricity-logs-19-covid-cases-for-second-day-in-a-row-101640209579337.html
23-12-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: Mercury remains steady, light rain likely from December 26||The city’s day and night temperature continued to beat the cold wave on Wednesday and a similar trend is expected to continue in for the next few days, according to the India Meteorological Department (IMD). Thereafter, light rain is expected in Chandigarh on December 26.The maximum temperature of the city remained constant from 22.4°C on Tuesday to 22.5°C on Wednesday, one notch above normal. On the other hand, the minimum temperature saw a slight dip from 5.7°C to 5.1°C, one degree below normal.IMD officials said two western disturbances were expected in quick succession in Punjab from December 24 to 26. Therefore, light rain is likely over northern parts of Punjab and Haryana from December 26 to 29, while Chandigarh may see scattered rain on December 26. In the next three days, the day temperature is likely to rise to anywhere between 23°C and 24°C, and the minimum temperature is expected to hover around 6-7°C.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarhmercury-remains-steady-light-rain-likely-from-december-26-101640209577870.html
23-12-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh MC polls: 3,700 cops to maintain vigil||To ensure fair and peaceful polling, 3,700 cops of Chandigarh police from police stations, other units, PCR, intelligence, security and traffic and home guards have been deployed for law and order duties, for the municipal corporation election slated for December 24.These include 16 DSPs and 54 inspectors, 515 NGOs, 2,323 ORs (including 850 women police officials) and 800 Home Guard volunteers. As many as 52 polling stations and 220 booths in Chandigarh have been declared “sensitive”.Briefing the police force on Wednesday, Praveer Ranjan, director general of police (DGP), Chandigarh, said the election process is an important event of democracy and Election Commission is responsible to conduct fair and peaceful election but police have to play an important role in this regard. He was addressing the force deployed for MC election duties at Police Lines, Sector-26. He asked the police personnel to be “polite and impartial” and maintain the high standard of professional competence. Omvir Singh Bishnoi, DIG, Chandigarh, Kuldeep Singh Chahal, SSP, Chandigarh, and Manisha Chaudhry, SSP, security and traffic, were present during the briefing.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-mc-polls-3-700-cops-to-maintain-vigil-101640209576437.html
23-12-2021||Chandigarh||Channi’s ‘hometown’ Kharar becomes epicentre of protests||Ever since Charanjit Singh Channni took over as Punjab’s chief minister three months ago, his residence town Kharar has become the epicentre of protests, much to the chagrin of commuters.Since Channi took the reins of the state government on September 21, 24 different organisations and unions have protested in the town over their long-pending demands. In these three months, these unions have held nearly 100 demonstrations in Kharar, and among these, they laid siege to the crucial Kharar highway as many as 24 times and the road near Kharar bus stand 28 times, repeatedly bringing inter-state traffic to a grinding halt.As per information, protesters blocked these roads for nearly 10 hours over five times in the past one month alone, while police watched silently.At the receiving end are thousands of commuters who take the Kharar highway, part of the National Highway-21, which connects Mohali and Chandigarh to Punjab, Jammu and Kashmir, and Himachal Pradesh. Nearly 50,000 vehicles take the stretch every day and are stuck in gridlocks every time the highway is blocked by protesters.Currently protesting on the highway are anganwadi workers, contractual teachers and National Health Mission workers, who have been demanding regularisation of jobs.On Tuesday, they blocked the highway since morning till late at night, leading to serpentine queues of vehicles, a scene that repeated on Wednesday as well.Around 11.30am, contractual teachers began their protest under the Kharar flyover, but after 45 minutes, they crossed the barricades and reached atop the flyover, not allowing vehicles to move.Heated arguments were witnessed and even blows were exchanged after some local leaders and residents requested the protesters to lift the blockade, citing harassment to public. The matter was resolved with police intervention and the road was cleared around 4.30pm, only after an assurance for a meeting from the chief minister’s office. Meanwhile, for two days the traffic headed from Rupnagar to Chandigarh was diverted towards New Chandigarh (Mullanpur); traffic from Ludhiana to Chandigarh was diverted from Morinda towards Chunni-Landran. From Chandigarh, vehicles were diverted towards Mohali and back to Chandigarh to follow the way to Kurali.Helpless residents miffed“Since September, it has been an ordeal to reach home due the protests every other day. Often I am forced to take longer routes to return home. Why are the protesters harassing the common people and police watching like mute spectators?” complained Kartar Singh Grewal, an IT engineer who works in Chandigarh and lives in Kharar.“The daily protests have become a pain in the neck. Often emergency vehicles also get stuck in the traffic, which can prove costly. The protesters don’t feel the pain of the commuters who remain stuck in traffic jam for hours. We urge the government to do something,” said Kamaldeep Singh Tiwana, also a resident of Kharar.Mohali senior superintendent of police (SSP) Navjot Singh Mahal said, “We are trying over level best to divert the traffic, but since it is the main highway in the area, traffic jams are witnessed. We have been diverting traffic to Siswan-Kurali and Landran road for people headed to Chandigarh and Mohali.”
23-12-2021||Chandigarh||HRTC to start Volvo bus service from Chandigarh airport to Shimla from December 25||Himachal Road Transport Corporation (HRTC) will be starting its Volvo bus service from the Chandigarh International Airport to Shimla from December 25. As per the schedule of HRTC, the Volvo bus will depart from ISBT Shimla at 12.45pm and reach Chandigarh International Airport at 4.30pm. The bus will then depart from the airport at 7.30pm and reach Shimla at 11pm. An HRTC official said booking for the Volvo bus can be made online or through the HRTC app. The fare per passenger has been fixed at ₹450 and the bus has been started under the UDAN scheme.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/hrtc-to-start-volvo-bus-service-from-chandigarh-airport-to-shimla-from-december-25-101640209572735.html
23-12-2021||Chandigarh||Two arrested with 59 boxes of liquor in Chandigarh||After recovering 35 boxes of illicit liquor on Tuesday, Chandigarh Police seized another 59 on Wednesday and arrested two men.A police team arrested one Raj Kumar after recovering 34 boxes from his house in Sector 24. Kumar revealed the alcohol was meant for supply during the dry days in view of the Chandigarh municipal corporation elections slated for December 24. The cartons included bottles of Charlie XXX rum, King’s Gold whisky, All Seasons whisky and Royal Stag whisky. A case under the Excise Act was registered against Raj Kumar and his aide, Anil, at the Sector 11 police station. Anil is at large. Similarly, the crime cell of Chandigarh Police arrested Jagbir, 32, hailing from Jind, Haryana, after finding 25 boxes of countrymade liquor in his possession. The boxes were stacked in his Maruti Swift car, which was stopped for checking near the Sector-22 dispensary. Another case was registered under the Excise Act.In view of the MC elections on December 24, the UT administration had declared December 22 to 24 and December 27 (counting day) as dry days. All liquor shops (both wholesale and retail) and other establishments, which have been issued licences to sell liquor, have been prohibited to sell and serve liquor during the dry days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/two-arrested-with-59-boxes-of-liquor-in-chandigarh-101640209571421.html
23-12-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh Congress files complaint against online pre-poll survey||Chandigarh Congress spokesperson Rajesh Sharma on Wednesday filed a complaint with the State Election Commission and police, alleging an online portal had posted a fake pre-election survey.The party said the survey showed that the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) would win the maximum seats in the Chandigarh civic polls, followed by the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP).Sharma said publishing a pre-poll survey was a violation of the model code of conduct, the Representation of the People Act and the Indian Penal Code. He said, “Publication of fake pre-poll surveys under the guise of a news portal is a serious offence, intended to influence the voters of the city and diminish the institution of free and fair elections in the country’s democratic set up.”“We demand immediate and stern legal action, so that false posts are immediately removed from all internet platforms. The source of this fake post should be traced and all people committing such illegal acts should be booked as per the provisions of the law,” he said.The party also raised concerns over absence of VVPAT (Voter verifiable paper audit trail) with EVM machines on voting day.“As the MC elections are being conducted without VVPAT, the Congress has serious apprehensions over the fairness of the upcoming corporation elections, especially in view of the fact that the BJP has justified their absence,” said Sharma.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-congress-files-complaint-against-online-pre-poll-survey-101640209569949.html
23-12-2021||Chandigarh||Speeding SUV snuffs out 22-year-old biker’s life in Mohali||A speeding Toyota Fortuner claimed the life of a 22-year-old motorcyclist near the Punjab School Education Board (PSEB) office in Phase 8 on Wednesday evening.Police said the deceased was identified as Surjit Singh, who hailed from Gurdaspur in Punjab and was currently living in Sector 63, as he worked for a KFC restaurant in Mohali.On Wednesday evening, he was returning home from work, when a recklessly driven Toyota Fortuner rammed into his motorcycle from behind. Investigating officer ASI Amarnath said following the collision, the SUV hit the side railing, before coming to a halt. The driver fled the spot on foot, leaving the car behind. Having suffered serious injuries, Surjit died on the spot. Police have booked the unidentified SUV driver under Sections 304-A (causing death due to negligence), 279 (rash driving) and 427 (mischief causing damage to the amount of ₹50) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) following a complaint by Surjit’s father, Mukhtiar Singh. Woman hurt in hit-and-run succumbs at PGIFour days after suffering serious injuries in a hit-and-run accident in Dera Bassi, a 52-year-old woman succumbed at PGIMER, Chandigarh, on Wednesday.Investigating officer Ramandeep Singh said the deceased, Inder Kaur, was a resident of Mirpur village in Dera Bassi. On December 19, she was crossing the road to throw garbage, when an unidentified vehicle hit her, leaving her seriously injured. She was rushed to PGIMER, where she died during treatment on Wednesday.The driver of the unidentified vehicle has been booked under Sections 304-A and 279 of the IPC on the statement of the deceased’s son Nanak Singh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/speeding-suv-snuffs-out-22-year-old-biker-s-life-in-mohali-101640209568655.html
23-12-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh markets once again bustling with Christmas shoppers||With Christmas right around the corner, city markets are abuzz with activity, with people completing their Christmas purchases.From Christmas trees to decorations and plum cakes to gifts, residents are checking off their to-do lists in the run up to December 25.Decked out with plethora of Christmas decorations, the Sector 20 market is the hot spot for Christmas trees in various sizes and designs.“After the celebrations were dulled by the Covid-19 pandemic last year, we barely got any business. With the situation better now, people, who couldn’t complete their shopping last year, are coming out to the markets in good numbers this year,” said Kunal Jindal, owner of Gupta Provision and General Store in Sector 20.The Christmas tree range in this market starts at ₹40 and goes up to ₹10,000 based on the height and design of the tree, available even at 15 feet high. However, Jindal said, there was a shortage of supply from suppliers in China, causing the prices to rise by around 1.5 times. Besides, the expensive permit from the municipal corporation to set up Christmas stalls outside their shops was digging into their profit.Vijay Goyal, another shopkeeper here, said although the footfall was higher this year compared to 2020, it was still lower than pre-Covid times. Diwakar Sahoonja, proprietor of Dewsun, Sector 11, and spokesperson, Chandigarh Beopar Mandal, said they were expecting more footfall from December 23. “Earlier people would start shopping earlier as they used to send greeting cards to friends and family in the country and abroad, but now virtual greeting cards are preferred,” he said. Shobha Yatra to return after a year’s gapAfter choosing to forego their annual Shobha Yatra due to Covid-19 pandemic in 2020, the Tricity Churches Association will hold the Christmas procession on Thursday. President Lawrence Malik said, “The Shobha Yatra will feature representatives from around 200 churches from the region. It will start from the CNI Church in Sector 18, Chandigarh, and after moving through Sectors 19, 20, 21, 22, 23 and 24, it will conclude at the Sector 25 rally ground.”After low-key celebrations last year, when even neighbourhood carol singing was given a miss, it is expected that this year, the festival will be celebrated at churches across the tricity with the usual fervour, while observing Covid protocols, including masks and social distancing.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-markets-once-again-bustling-with-christmas-shoppers-101640209567366.html
23-12-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana DC office staff goes on seven-day strike||Ludhiana The ministerial staff of the deputy commissioner’s (DC) office and health department on Wednesday announced a seven-day long pen-down strike following the state’s recommendations of the 6th pay commission and other pending demands, adding to the woes of the public.The employees rued the government’s indifferent approach to their demands, saying that the strike will continue till December 28 and the further course of action will be chalked out after that.District president Punjab State Ministerial Services Union, Sanjeev Bhargav said the government had been apprised about the employees’ stand against the recommendations of the 6th pay commission.“The government has been deliberately ignoring the genuine demands of the employees, due to which the seven-day long pen down strike has been announced. If the government fails to fulfill the demands, then a protest will be staged at state level on December 29 and further plans will be chalked out,” he said.Public visiting the government offices, meanwhile, have faced the brunt of things. Gurminder Singh, a local resident, said he had come to inquire about the status of his arms license application, but the staff claimed that clerks and other ministerial staff are on strike.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-dc-office-staff-goes-on-seven-day-strike-101640208607146.html
23-12-2021||Chandigarh||Farmers continue sit-in at Ludhiana mini-secretariat||Lambasting the state government for “failing to fulfill promises” made in the past, farmers under the banner of Bhartiya Kisan Union (Ugrahan) continued their 24 hour protest inside the Ludhiana mini-secretariat on the third consecutive day on Wednesday.After confining deputy commissioner (DC) Varinder Sharma in his office for around four hours on Tuesday, the farmers had ended the ‘gherao’ at night after Punjab chief minister Charanjit Channi invited the union for a meeting on Wednesday.The meeting was subsequently postponed to Thursday, prompting the farmers to resume their sit-in outside the DC office complex. Tractor trailers of the farmers were also parked inside the secretariat on Wednesday.Farmers had launched a five-day protest on Monday, slamming the Congress government over pending demands, including debt waiver as promised by the government ahead of 2017 assembly elections, compensation for damaged cotton crop, payment of increased state advisory price (SAP) for sugarcane among other demands.Farmers’ union general secretary Sudagar Singh Ghudani said, “For now, it has been decided that the day-night protest will continue till December 24. The CM has invited the union for a meeting tomorrow and the future course of action will be chalked out after the meeting. The government has been trying to run away from its promises, but we will continue the agitation till our demands are fulfilled. Most of the demands have already been approved by the government, but those are not being implemented at ground level.”Farmers eat, sleep in tractor trailersPrepared a long-haul, farmers have brought along vegetables, milk, wheat, mattresses and other necessities in their tractor trailers. To beat the winter chill, especially at night, the farmers have completely covered the trailers with plastic sheets. Tea is also served to the protesting farmers and visitors at the DC office.Traffic chaos witnessedWith over a dozen tractor-trailers parked at the entry of mini-secretariat, chaos was witnessed in the vicinity on Wednesday due to congestion. One of the visitors, Vikas said farmers should not harass the public in their fight against the government.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/farmers-continue-sit-in-at-ludhiana-minisecretariat-101640208086780.html
23-12-2021||Chandigarh||Retired Justice TS Doabia passes away at 80||Justice Tejinder Singh Doabia (retired), who was among the first settlers of Chandigarh, has passed away. Born in 1941 in Lahore to a lawyer, Harbans Singh Doabia, he died due to cardiac arrest on Sunday, the family said. His family shifted to Shimla in 1947 and later to Chandigarh in 1953. He was among the first batch of pass outs of Senior Model School in Sector 16, along with Justice Jawahar Lal Gupta (retired) and Congress leader Ambika Soni. After completing his law degree from Panjab University, he enrolled as an advocate in 1962, and in 1994 he was elevated as high court judge. While in HC of Jammu and Kashmir, he had co-authored a judgment granting local women marrying outside J&K rights to their ancestral property, before retiring in 2003. He has also authored more than 50 books and commentaries on law. He is survived by his wife Raghbir Kaur, sons Inder Pal Singh Doabia, an additional advocate general, Punjab, and Supreme Court lawyer Manpreet Singh Doabia.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/retired-justice-ts-doabia-passes-away-at-80-101640208077395.html
23-12-2021||Chandigarh||PEC: PhD thesis to be evaluated by foreign examiners||The Punjab Engineering College (PEC) senate on Wednesday gave the go-ahead to the proposal, under which one of the two evaluations carried out for PhD thesis submitted by research scholars will be carried out by examiners from abroad.Currently the thesis submitted by the scholar are sent to examiners from within the country for both evaluations. Announcing the change, the institute’s director Baldev Setia, said, “Now, the thesis will also be going abroad for evaluation.” Setia had himself proposed the policy change, but it needed to be approved by the PEC senate for implementation. PEC has also introduced the requirement of publishing at least one research paper in SCI journal for an A+ grade in Masters. Similarly, a PhD scholar would need to publish one research paper in the second to third year.The institution offers eight undergraduate and 12 postgraduate programmes, besides PhD in various disciplines of engineering, science and other fields.Report on NIRF rankings tabledA report prepared to provide the recommendations for improving the institution’s standing in the National Institutional Ranking Framework (NIRF) was also tabled in the senate meeting on Wednesday. The PEC senate, while deliberating on the matter during the last meeting ,had asked a faculty member to prepare a comprehensive report on ways to improve the institute’s ranking.Speaking on the same, Setia said, “The recommendations were tabled in the meeting and a discussion was held on the certain areas where we can work. The recommendations were concerning our publications and research. We have formed the committees that provide us with workable solutions now,” The ranking was also discussed during a meeting of the institute’s board of governors (BoG) in September, where it was suggested that the NIRF data may be collected from top 10 institutions and comparison be made accordingly.The institution has also decided that teaching would continue to be carried out online, even for the semester students. However, the same is scheduled to be reviewed after one month..
23-12-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh University convocation: 1,552 students awarded degrees||The annual convocation of Chandigarh University was held at its Gharuan campus on Wednesday, during which 1,552 students were awarded degrees for the 2020-21 academic session. This included 430 students from liberal arts, 987 from science and 135 from the department of teacher training. As many as 18 graduate and 12 postgraduate students were awarded gold medals, while 28 were awarded PhDs. In-charge of the external affairs department, Vijay Chauthaiwale and theatre director Neelam Mansingh Chaudhary were the chief guests on the occasion. CU chancellor Satnam Singh Sandhu and pro-chancellor RS Bawa were also present. In his convocational address, Chauthaiwale asserted urged the students to make the best use of opportunities available to them and contribute to the nation’s progress.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-university-convocation-1-552-students-awarded-degrees-101640208071329.html
23-12-2021||Chandigarh||PU senate: Petitions delay notification of members elected from faculties constituency||Even as 33 members elected from six constituencies of Panjab University (PU) senate have been notified by vice-president of India, M Venkaiah Naidu, who is the chancellor of the university, those elected from two constituencies are yet to be notified.This includes six elected members from the constituency of faculties and those from the constituency of teachers of affiliated arts colleges. Regarding the constituency of faculties, sources at the university said that three petitions have been filed against their election. “The petitions filed are still pending with the competent authority,” said PU registrar Vikram Nayyar, who was the returning officer for senate polls.It is learnt that the petitioners have raised questions over the validity of the voter list. However, a regulation of the PU calendar states, “A voter’s name shall not be removed from the register of voters for the reason that the voter has, subsequent to the publication of the final register, ceased to hold the capacity in which he was registered.”All six members who were elected from this constituency are from the Goyal group and are former senators. They are Navdeep Goyal, Ashok Goyal, Rajesh Gill, Keshav Malhotra, Ronki Ram and Anu Chatrath. The election for the constituency was held in September.Navdeep Goyal, former senator and syndicate member, said, “A petition can be filed within 10 days after the election but we do not know when these petitions were filed. It’s been a long time since the polls were held and it is shameful that the matter is still pending.” “Everything is happening for the first time, including the postponement of elections at first. The intentions are quite clear,” said former senator Ashok Goyal.Regarding the constituency of teachers of affiliated arts colleges, the delay is reportedly due to an issue over the election of Tarun Ghai, whose election was declared ineligible by vice-chancellor Raj Kumar last month. Ghai has filed a petition with the chancellor, questioning the V-C’s decision and demanded an independent probe in the matter. “I have not received any communication from the chancellor’s office so far,” said Tarun Ghai. Even after a majority of the members have been notified, university officials said that there is no clarity regarding when the meeting of the governing body will be held. Two years have passed since the senate last met in December 2019. The university is also functioning without a syndicate, the executive arm of senate, after its term ended on December 31, 2020.
23-12-2021||Chandigarh||Lok Sabha winter session: Ambala MP demands arms manufacturing unit in his constituency||On the last day of the winter session of the Lok Sabha on Wednesday, member of Parliament from Ambala and former Union minister, Rattan Lal Kataria, demanded an arms manufacturing unit in his constituency.Kataria said that there are two cantonment boards in his constituency - Ambala Cantonment and Panchkula (Chandimandir), and both are crucial in terms of their proximity to the Indo-Pak and Sino-India (China) borders. “Both the borders are 200-300 kilometres away from the air force station in Ambala and is highly sensitive. During the wars with Pakistan and China, the opposite forces always tried to attack the airbase,” he added.He had submitted his notice under Rule 377 to the secretary-general of the Lok Sabha on December 17 and spoke in the Parliament on Wednesday. His personal assistant at his Delhi office, Sunny, said that the request has been forwarded to the officials concerned.Kataria said that he has apprised defence minister Rajnath Singh of the fact that Ambala is also famous for manufacturing science equipment, and setting up of an arms unit here will also boost the “Make in India” initiative of Prime Minister Narendra Modi.“The government of India is moving towards self-reliance in terms of defence affairs and has already exported arms worth crores. An arms unit in Ambala will also be helpful for the Indian defence policy,” the BJP lawmaker said in a video statement.During the Indo-Pak war in 1965, a Pakistani aircraft dropped bombs at the historic St Paul’s Church in Ambala, which is just metres away from the air force station. Now, the airbase is home to French-made Rafale fighter jets.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/lok-sabha-winter-session-ambala-mp-demands-arms-manufacturing-unit-in-his-constituency-101640206626786.html
23-12-2021||Chandigarh||No vaccine, no salary: Punjab govt to its employees||The Punjab government employees will not get salary if they fail to furnish their Covid-19 certificate details. An order was issued by the finance department in this regard to administrative secretaries, divisional commissioners and deputy commissioners on Wednesday, asking them to inform the employees that they should register their vaccination certification number for both jabs with its web-based human resource portal. The finance department, which made the provision for entering the vaccination certificate number in the Integrated Human Resource Management System (iHRMS), also asked the departments to link the vaccination particulars with the salary module. “If any employee has got one dose administered, then the employee should register the number of that certificate. If vaccination certificate details are not furnished, the employee’s salary with not be released,” reads the order. The government order has come as the Omicron variant is posing threat and the Centre has issued an advisory to states and union territories to stay on alert and increase scrutiny and vaccination.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/no-vaccine-no-salary-punjab-govt-to-its-employees-101640206386595.html
23-12-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: Two-year-old girl grants new lease of life to 5||Officials at the Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER) on Wednesday shared that the family of a two-and-a-half-year-old girl, who succumbed to injuries at the hospital following an accident, donated her organs that were received by five separate transplant patients.The deceased, Anaika, was involved in a December 12-road accident near a housing society in Sector 89, Mohali. Her mother, brother and three other relatives died on the spot, while she was rushed to the SGHS Hospital, Sohana, Mohali, in critical condition. She was later shifted to PGIMER, where she succumbed to her injuries. The child was declared brain dead on December 21.Anaika’s father, Amit Gupta, a Bangalore-based businessman, decided to donate her organs. Her kidneys, corneas and liver were retrieved at PGIMER, the last of which was later allocated to a matching recipient at the Institute of Kidney Diseases and Research Centre (IKDRC), Ahmedabad, with the intervention of National Organ & Tissue Transplant Organisation (NOTTO).The harvested liver was sent from PGIMER to Chandigarh International Airport in 18 minutes by creating a Green Corridor for the airlines. The retrieved liver was taken to IKDRC, where it was transplanted to a terminally ill 7-year-old male child. The kidneys were transplanted to the renal failure patients here in PGIMER, while the corneas were given to blind patients.Paying tribute to Anaika, PGIMER director Dr Surjeet Singh, said, “This noble act of the family is really praiseworthy and should motivate others. It is really crucial for everyone to understand that even in times of grief, one positive response too can change the lives of multiple strangers and bring a smile to many faces. It was a very courageous decision taken by the donor Gupta family even as they were grieving the sudden demise of their daughter.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-two-year-old-girl-grants-new-lease-of-life-to-5-101640206095743.html
23-12-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana: Pedestrian hit by speeding bike, dies on the spot||A pedestrian died after being hit by a speeding bike on Jaspal Bangar road on late Tuesday night. The biker fled the spot after the incident. The victim has been identified as Rajesh Gupta of Mahadev Nagar. He worked as a labourer in a factory in Kanganwal area.Assistant sub-inspector (ASI) Hardeep Singh, the investigating officer, said the victim was crossing the road when the bike hit him. The impact of the collision was so strong that the man died at the spot.The ASI added that a case of reckless driving and causing death due to negligence has been registered against the unidentified accused. Police are scanning closed-circuit television cameras CCTVs to identify the accused.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-pedestrian-hit-by-speeding-bike-dies-on-the-spot-101640206026665.html
23-12-2021||Chandigarh||Amritsar conjoined twins Sohna and Mohna bag govt job||The lovable conjoined twins of Amritsar --- Sohna-Mohna --- have another feat to their credit. The 19-year-olds --- who have been eager to become self-reliant --- have bagged a job in the Punjab State Power Corporation Limited (PSPCL). Inmates of Pingalwara, Sohna-Mohna, who hold a diploma (electrician) from ITI, officially joined their duty as Regular T Mate (RTM) at the 66-KV PSPCL office near the dental college here on Wednesday. They will be working in the supply control room, said officials. The twins will get a monthly salary of ₹20,000 initially. “We came to know that persons with rarest of the rare disability were pursuing a diploma in the ITI and wanted to make a career as electricians. We reached out and found them very active. The twins have a good technical knowledge. So, we decided to recruit them in our department under the disabled persons quota on compassionate grounds”, PSPCL CMD Venu Parsad said. Sohna-Mohna said they were grateful to the Punjab government for providing them this opportunity. “We will work hard with utmost sincerity and dedication”, said Sohna. “We are deeply thankful to the Pingalwara institution that has raised us, educated us and helped us in becoming self-dependent,” said Mohna. Inderjit Kaur, chairperson of All India Pingalwara Charitable Society, said, “It is matter of great pride for all of us that Sohna-Mohna have joined the government service.” The twins have two hearts, two pairs of arms, kidneys, and spinal cords, but a single liver, gall bladder, spleen, and one pair of legs. Born on June 14, 2003, at New Delhi’s Sucheta Kriplani Hospital, they were abandoned by their parents. They were later shifted to AIIMS where doctors decided not to separate them as it could have resulted in the loss of one life and vascular and neurological loss in the lower limbs of the survivor. Notably, after they were abandoned by their parents, the doctors at AIIMS contacted the Pingalwara and the newborns got a home on Independence Day in 2003 where they were christened Sohna and Mohna by Dr Inderjit Kaur after the famous piece of historical fiction by Bhai Veer Singh. The District Red Cross Society has decided to take care of Sohna-Mohna’s transportation from Pingalwara to their workplace. 
23-12-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana: Brothers crushed to death as school van hits bike||Two siblings were crushed to death after a school van hit their motorcycle on Kohara road near Gurugarh village in Ludhiana in the wee hours of Wednesday. The school van driver fled the spot after the incident.The victims have been identified as Gurmukh Singh, 31, of Hayatpur village and his brother Vikram Singh, 30. They were labourers at a factory on Kohara road, and were returning home after the night shift when the mishap took place.A pall of gloom descended upon their village as the news of their death spread. The brothers were the only breadwinners of their family, which is in a poor financial condition.Assistant sub-inspector (ASI) Sanjiv Kumar, the investigating officer, said the impact of the collision was so strong that Vikram died on the spot. Gurmukh succumbed to his injuries on the way to the hospital. The ASI added that there was dense fog in the area at the time of the mishap, which may have caused the mishap.Police have registered an FIR under Sections 279 (reckless driving), 304A (causing death due to negligence) and 427 (mischief causing damage to the amount of fifty rupees) of the Indian Penal Code against unidentified accused. A hunt is on for his arrest.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-brothers-crushed-to-death-as-school-van-hits-bike-101640205786644.html
23-12-2021||Chandigarh||Mohali industrialists protest poor state of ESI hospital||Members of the Mohali Industries Association (MIA) on Wednesday held a protest march against the poor facilities at the Employee State Insurance (ESI) hospital in Phase 7, Industrial Area, and two dispensaries in Phase 7, Industrial Area, and Phase 2. The march started from MIA Bhawan in Phase 7, Industrial Area and culminated at the Phase 7/8 light point, where the industrialists raised slogans against the state and central governments. Addressing media persons, MIA president Anurag Aggarwal said that the association has always worked along with the government and rarely resorted to protests, but they have now been forced to express their anger as all their requests, including those made to the Union labour minister, Union health minister,director general of ESIC Corporation, New Delhi, Punjab health secretary and director of ESI, Punjab, have fallen on deaf ears. He said it is astonishing that ESI Hospital and dispensaries are currently working only from 8am to 2pm. “We urge the authorities to make them operational 24x7, as industry is working throughout the day. The insured workers may be referred 24x7 hrs only to empanelled hospitals under the ESI Scheme, where cashless medical facility is available, instead of government institutions. ESI dispensaries should also work round-the-clock. Also, time-bound clearance of medical reimbursements bills of beneficiaries should be ensured,” added Aggarwal. He said that if the corporation does not reply to their demand in two weeks, MIA will intensify the protest and may even ask industrialists to not deposit ESI contribution. Vivek Kapoor, vice-president of MIA, said that ₹10 crore is deposited with the ESIC every month from Mohali, but not even 10% of that is spent on the workers by the corporation. Dilpreet Boparai, joint finance secretary of MIA, that it is very shameful that despite spending their hard-earned money, workers are having to suffer. The ESI scheme is a social security scheme to provide medical healthcare facilities to insured persons and their families.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/mohali-industrialists-protest-poor-state-of-esi-hospital-101640205486532.html
23-12-2021||Chandigarh||Congress opposes privatisation of Chandigarh electricity department||Chandigarh Congress on Wednesday submitted a memorandum to the UT administrator opposing the decision of the administration to privatise the electricity department.The memorandum was submitted by the party’s city chief, Subhash Chawla, along with party candidates from all MC wards. They demanded that the decision to transfer the electricity distribution in Chandigarh to a private company, along with all assets of the electricity department, must be revoked to safeguard public and national interests.The party also demanded a CBI enquiry to unearth all aspects of the deal. Chawla said that during the process of election campaign, the party candidates received a lot of input from the residents about their apprehensions about another profit-making venture being sold off by the Modi-led government. “On further investigation, glaring revelations came out that the government is arbitrarily following an inconsistent policy to privatise public companies as per their own whims and fancies, so as to benefit corporate entities,” he said.Chawla also said that Chandigarh electricity department has been consistently running in profits and last year, its revenue surplus was ₹365.11 crore, even when its power tariff is the lowest in the country. “The department has won the best utility award consistently for the last five years, which is a performance award given by the joint electricity regulatory commission (JERC),” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/congress-opposes-privatisation-of-chandigarh-electricity-department-101640205186438.html
23-12-2021||Other||Gurugram: Drone survey covers unauthorised colonies in New Palam Vihar, Garhi Harsaru||The drone survey of unauthorised colonies in the district has covered around 2,000 acres of land in New Palam Vihar and Garhi Harsaru village, officials from the department of town and country planning (DTCP) said on Wednesday. The department said that around 12,000 acres of land would be covered in the survey, which started last week, and a daily report is being submitted to the district administration. In order to complete the survey in 45 days, the authorities are planning to fly drones simultaneously in several colonies. RS Bhath, district town planner, enforcement, said that the drone survey will cover the entire district and find out the actual spread of unauthorised colonies and the infrastructure present there. “The layout plan of these colonies, area covered, number of plots and actual status of construction will be mapped using the drones. We have started it in Garhi Harsaru and New Palam Vihar, and to expedite the process, the plan is to fly multiple drones in the next couple of days,” he said. The survey will become the basis of a report on unauthorised colonies that will be submitted to the state government for providing essential services and deficient infrastructure to colonies outside the municipal area, said the DTCP officials. In a related development on Wednesday, the state assembly also passed the Haryana Management of Civic Amenities and Infrastructure Deficient Areas outside Municipal Area (Special Provisions) Bill, 2021, to make special provisions for providing essential services in infrastructure deficient areas outside municipal area. Referring to the Bill, the state government said that it has been observed that the colonies with deficient infrastructure are also situated outside municipal areas in various towns of the state. “To provide minimum infrastructure and ensure healthy living of the residents, this bill has been enacted,” the government said in a statement. Bhath said that the drone survey, registration of unauthorised colonies on DTCP portal with regard to their existing infrastructure and the proposed report on status of colonies was a step towards the implementation of the new law. “This will help provide required infrastructure in colonies after a proper assessment by the government,” he said. 
23-12-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh MC elections: BJP candidates go from door to door seeking votes||A day after campaigning for the Chandigarh municipal corporation elections concluded, senior leaders and candidates of Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) went from door-to-door seeking votes on Wednesday. Voting is scheduled for December 24 and results will be out on December 27. The State Election Commission will complete the process by December 30.BJP president Arun Sood and former president Sanjay Tandon also accompanied the party candidates in visiting the people’s houses. Family members of the candidates also visited their wards and tried to woo voters. Besides, senior party leaders also held indoor strategy meetings. While campaigning from door-to-door, the BJP candidates and leaders promised to fulfil promises made during poll rallies and in manifestoes. “The party is dedicated to providing development to the people of the city. With the PM at the apex and MP also belonging to the Saffron Party, “triple engine” governance will further boost the developmental projects in Chandigarh after BJP comes into power again”, the party leaders said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-mc-elections-bjp-candidates-go-from-door-to-door-seeking-votes-101640204948245.html
23-12-2021||Other||Brahmpura, son to return to SAD today||Amritsar Former Punjab minister Ranjit Singh Brahmpura, along with his son Ravinder Singh Brahmpura, will return to the Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) in the presence of party patriarch Parkash Singh Badal, and president Sukhbir Singh Badal in Chandigarh on Thursday. The senior Brahmpura, a close friend of the senior Badal, along with former minister Sewa Singh Sekhwan and ex-MP Dr Rattan Singh Ajnala had raised the banner of revolt against Sukhbir in December 2018. The senior Brahmpura, the president of the SAD-Taksali party, which had merged with Rajya Sabha member Sukhdev Singh Dhindsa’s SAD (Democratic) a few months ago, had been denouncing the Akal leaders for pardoning Dera Sacha Sauda chief, Gurmeet Ram Rahim, in a blasphemy case. Sources said the acting jathedar of the Akal Takht, the highest temporal seat of the Sikhs, Giani Harpreet Singh has played a major role in bringing Brahmpura and his son back to the SAD fold. “We are rejoining the SAD in the presence of Parkash Singh Badal and Sukhbir in Chandigarh on Thursday. All arrangements have been completed. We are obeying the appeal of the Akal Takht jathedar, who had asked us to get united for the panth,” Ravinder told HT over phone.It is likely that the SAD might announce Ravinder as its Punjab polls candidate from the Khadoor Sahib assembly segment, which is also known as the ‘panthic’ assembly. Ravinder had won by-polls on the seat in 2016, after Congress MLA Ramanjit Singh Sikki resigned over sacrilege incidents in the state.When the SAD-BJP alliance was in power, the senior Brahmpura was known as ‘Majhe Da Jarnail’ (the leader of Majha). After Brahmpura’s ouster from the party, Bikram Singh Majithia took on the mantel. The development comes soon after the Punjab Police issued a Look Out Circular (LOC) against Majithia, who was booked in a drugs case on Tuesday. With the return of the Brahmpuras to the party fold, the Congress party will have a tough competition during the election, sources claim. The senior Brahmpura, who has been keeping unwell, had also been launching attacks against Majithia for allegedly ‘running the drug trade’. Previously, former MP Ajnala’s son, Bonny Ajnala, had returned to the SAD and was announced as the party candidate from Ajnala assembly seat.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/brahmpura-son-to-return-to-sadtoday-101640204648300.html
23-12-2021||Chandigarh||Haryana: Woman back from Canada tests positive for Omicron||Chandigarh: A Canada-returned woman admitted in a Faridabad hospital in Haryana has been found infected with the Omicron variant of coronavirus. She is the first confirmed case of Omicron variant infected patient in Haryana. Health minister Anil Vij on Wednesday told the state assembly that the woman, who returned from Canada on December 13, tested Covid positive on December 14. Subsequently her sample was sent for whole genome sequencing and she was found infected with Omicron variant on December 20. Her two primary contacts, mother and aunt, have also tested Covid positive but the results of their genome sequencing are awaited. The three have been quarantined at a private healthcare facility in Faridabad. Replying to a calling attention notice, Vij informed the House that as per the list of international passengers shared by the airport authority, 22,918 international passengers have been taken under surveillance and 17,933 have been tested. Samples of persons found positive have been sent for genome sequencing Officials said that three international travellers, whose final destination was Gurugram, were tested Covid positive with Omicron variant. However, none of them have travelled to Gurugram and were quarantined in Delhi hospitals.Portugal-returnee Karnal man tests +ve for Omicron KARNAL: A 33-year-old fully vaccinated man, who returned from Portugal last week, has been infected with the Omicron variant of Covid-19 and is the first case of Karnal district.The district health department said infected person belongs to Barani village of Nilokheri block has been admitted to the isolation ward of the Covid-19 hospital of the KCGMC and has no symptoms.Karnal civil surgeon Dr Yogesh Sharma said that the patient was immediately isolated as he had returned from the high-risk country. He said his Covid-19 report came as positive on December 18 and he was kept in the isolation ward since his arrival, adding that his sample was sent to Delhi to determine the variant which came as positive of Omicron.His six-year-old son also tested positive of Covid 19 and he has been admitted to the isolation ward. His sample will also be sent for the Omicron test.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/haryana-woman-back-from-canada-tests-positive-for-omicron-101640204646737.html
23-12-2021||Chandigarh||Panel to decide appointment mode in Haryana universities||CHANDIGARH: Following an outcry over the state government’s decision to change the recruitment procedure of teaching and non-teaching posts in the universities, chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar said on Wednesday that a five-member committee would be constituted for taking decisions regarding appointments to different posts in the universities of the state. The committee will include the representative of the governor (chancellor), principal secretary (higher education) and vice-chancellors (VCs) of three universities, Khattar said in the Vidhan Sabha, assuring that the instructions of UGC will be complied with. He said the appointments in universities will be done in a transparent manner and on the basis of merit only and that the autonomy of universities will remain intact. Veracity of a WhatsApp chat Questioning the veracity of a WhatsApp chat leader of opposition Bhupinder Singh Hooda had read on Monday in the assembly, chief minister Khattar said he had asked former CM Hooda to officially share the copy of the chat in question. An official spokesperson said after Hooda refused to respond, Khattar requested the speaker to thoroughly investigate the chat document Hooda had read in the House on Monday as an unverified transcript of a conversation between two persons that has been doing rounds on social media platforms. Hooda had said that in this chat there were indications of exchange of money and manipulation in recruitments. The former CM on Wednesday said the state government should investigate the chat message on its own and that he would not become a party in this matter. “I have mentioned the mobile number involved in the conversation. Find out yourself who all are involved in this conversation,’’ Hooda said, as per a statement government issued.276 cases registered during farmers’ stir The CM said the state government will withdraw all cases registered against farmers except cases involving heinous crimes such as rape, murder etc. He said according to police records, 276 cases have been registered during the farmers’ agitation so far. While four cases were registered under serious offences, chargesheet has been prepared in 178 cases and 158 cases are still untraceable. During interaction with farmers, it has come to the fore that the tally of deceased farmers of Haryana is 73. 3% hike in DA The CM said that the state government has decided to increase the rate of dearness allowance (DA) of employees and dearness relief of pensioners and family pensioners from 28% of basic pay and pension to 31% with effect from July 1, 2021. The government has also decided to increase the share of NPS scheme implemented for new employees from 10 per cent to 14 per cent on the lines of the central government which will be implemented from January 1, 2022.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/panel-to-decide-appointment-mode-in-haryana-universities-101640204406396.html
23-12-2021||Chandigarh||Drinking age reduced to 21 in Haryana||With intent to reduce the legal drinking age to 21 from the existing 25, the Haryana assembly on Wednesday passed an amendment Bill.According to Section 29 of the Haryana Excise Act, there is a prohibition on sale of liquor or intoxicating drug to persons under 25 years for consumption. The Haryana Excise (amendment) Bill passed by the assembly Wednesday has brought down the minimum age for drinking from 25 to 21.Following the amendment, the legal age for getting a lease to manufacture, wholesale or retail sale of any country liquor or intoxicating drug and to employ a person at a premises licensed to sell liquor or intoxicating drugs has also been reduced to 21.The statement of objects and reasons said that during the framing of excise policy for 2021-22 it was discussed that the above age limit may be reduced from 25 years to 21 as many of other states have prescribed lower age limits. The National Capital Territory of Delhi recently reduced this age limit to 21.“Moreover, the socio-economic conditions of the day have changed drastically from the time when the above provisions were incorporated in the Excise Act. The people now are more educated and participating in new endeavours and also can take rational decision when it comes to responsible drinking,” said the justification to reduce the drinking age.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/drinking-age-reduced-to-21-in-haryana-101640204226241.html
23-12-2021||Other||Multi-crore heist: Bail plea of Gurugram doctor to be heard today||The bail application of Dr Sachinder Jain Nawal, one of the prime suspects in the multi-crore heist at two apartments in a residential society in Sector 84, will be heard in the district court on Thursday. The bail plea was listed for Wednesday, but it was withdrawn by the suspect’s counsel. Rahul Chauhan, lawyer of Nawal, said that the hearing on bail application was not advanced on Wednesday as we had to place some documents to strengthen our arguments. “The documents were not brought before us before the bail plea hearing on Wednesday. So we sought an adjournment and the matter is now fixed for Thursday,” he said.On Monday, the bail application of Dr Gurpartap Singh alias Dr GP Singh, another suspect in the case, was rejected. He was a visiting doctor in the society and had passed on the information about the cash bags in the two flats to the prime suspects.Nawal, along with gangster Vikas Lagarpuria, have emerged as masterminds in the case, police said. The theft was committed on August 4. Nawal and Singh were arrested by the special task force (STF) of the Haryana Police on November 11 for their alleged involvement in the multi-crore heist. “Dr Nawal got the information about the money through his friend Dr Singh, currently lodged in Bhondsi jail, and passed on the information to the gangster. Along with the gangster, Dr Nawal planned the entire heist and theft was committed by henchmen of Lagarpuria. To get the matter covered up, Nawal had involved then Gurugram DCP Dheeraj Setia,” said Satheesh Balan, deputy inspector general of STF, on Wednesday.Setia has been suspended by the Haryana government.According to STF officials, Nawal is a native of Hisar who also tried to get a ticket for assembly elections held in 2019 from Barwala. The officials also revealed that Nawal had opened a multi-speciality hospital in Bhiwadi and suffered losses of nearly ₹6.5 crore and he was under pressure to return that money to the investors. 
23-12-2021||Chandigarh||Fortified rice: Hooda, Kiran question govt’s move to restrict purchase from five firms||Chandigarh: Leader of the opposition in the Haryana assembly Bhupinder Singh Hooda on Wednesday questioned the state government’s move to restrict the purchase of fortified rice kernels (FRK) from five companies empanelled by the Haryana food, civil supplies and consumer affairs department. The questionable move, which is in contravention of Central government guidelines, was reported by Hindustan Times on Wednesday. The former chief minister said the state government should follow the Central government guidelines to allow rice millers to take fortified rice kernel from all manufacturers holding Food Safety and Standards Authority of India (FSSAI) license instead of restricting them to obtain supplies from empanelled manufacturers. The five companies, Hooda said, were supplying fortified rice kernels at a higher rate, taking advantage of the cartelization. Tosham MLA, Kiran Choudhry also joined Hooda in raising the matter in the House. Hindustan Times had reported that two Haryana government agencies, HAFED and Haryana State Warehousing Corporation (HSWC) involved in the procurement of fortified rice kernels (FRK) have raised a red flag citing delays by the five empanelled companies. The objection by the two agencies comes close on the heels of allegations of anomalies and cartelization in the allotment of tenders for supply of FRK to three Maharashtra based companies. The allegations were levelled by Haryana FRK manufacturers association. The two state agencies- HAFED and Haryana State Warehousing Corporation (HSWC) while quoting the guidelines of the Central government have written to the director general of Haryana Food, Civil Supplies and Consumer Affairs department asking it to allow rice millers to take FRK from all FRK manufacturers holding Food Safety and Standards Authority of India (FSSAI) license instead of restricting them to obtain supplies from empanelled manufacturers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/fortified-rice-hooda-kiran-question-govt-s-move-to-restrict-purchase-from-five-firms-101640204047544.html
23-12-2021||Other||United face key, says Cong campaign team; Sidhu, Channi skip meeting||Chandigarh Chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi and Punjab Congress president Navjot Singh Sidhu were absent from the meeting of the Congress campaign committee on Wednesday, even as several members stressed the need to present a united face in the upcoming assembly polls. Channi and Sidhu, both members of the 21-member campaign committee that former state unit chief Sunil Jakhar heads, were conspicuous by their absence at the meeting held in Delhi. Jakhar had convened the meeting to discuss the strategy and broad contours of the party’s election campaign. Punjab affairs in-charge Harish Chaudhary, Congress national joint secretary Krishna Allavaru and seven MPs were among the 16 committee members who attended the meeting, held in the ‘war room’ of the Congress at 15, Gurdwara Rakabganj Road. A party MP said that the CM and the state chief could not attend the meeting as they had prior engagements.Sources said that at the meeting, several members, while touching upon the lack of cohesion in the state unit, asked the party leadership to get the leaders to work together. Both Channi and Sidhu, two top leaders of the party in Punjab, have not been on the same page on key issues with the latter being critical of the government. There are also other tussles and turf wars in Doaba and parts of Malwa that have left the party divided. During the three-hour meeting, Jakhar is learnt to have suggested that the party would have to build the campaign around its achievements of the past five years and explain to people with conviction, how it proposed to take forward any promises and issues that could not be fulfilled or were left unattended. Rahul to launch campaign After the meeting, Jakhar told reporters that former Congress president Rahul Gandhi would come to Punjab in the next few days to launch the party’s election campaign. Though no date was indicated, Rahul’s visit is likely any time between December 27-30. The party is also planning to schedule a visit of Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra to the state. Amritsar MP Gurjit Singh Aujla said that since most of the Lok Sabha MPs in the state were from the Congress, they also gave lots of suggestions in the meeting. Those who attended the meeting included AICC secretaries Chetan Chauhan; Harshwarshan Sapkal; Gurkirat Singh; Raminder Awla; Punjab cabinet minister Pargat Singh; MPs Jasbir Singh Dimpa; Manish Tewari; Ravneet Singh Bittu; Santokh Singh; Amar Singh and Shamsher Singh Dullo and former Punjab Youth Congress president Amarpreet Singh Lally.Maken-led screen committee also holds its first meetingThe Congress screening committee that party’s national general secretary Ajay Maken heads also held its first meeting in Delhi. The screening committee has been tasked with the selection of party candidates, The meeting, which started at 9pm, was attended by Sidhu, Channi, Jakhar, Chaudhary and two AlCC secretaries for the state. The Pradesh Election Committee, led by Sidhu, had earlier asked ticket aspirants to submit their applications by December 20 and received around 1,550 applications. 
23-12-2021||Other||UK returnee tests +ve for Covid in Gurugram, samples sent for genome sequencing||A 30-year-old man who recently returned from the United Kingdom has tested positive for Covid-19 in Gurugram, said officials from the district health department on Wednesday. The samples of this patient, who is currently under isolation at a government facility, has been sent for genome sequencing and the results are awaited, they said. The officials said that the patient had reached Gurugram on December 10 and tested positive for Covid-19 on Monday, during testing of samples as part of the monitoring process. “One person who had returned from the United Kingdom has tested positive for Covid-19 and was immediately shifted to an isolation facility. His samples have been sent for genome sequencing to check if the patient is positive for the Omicron variant, and we are waiting for the results,” said Dr Virender Yadav, chief medical officer of Gurugram. Since November 26, a total of 15,385 international travellers have entered Gurugram district, of which 3,124 are from the 12 high-risk countries, said the officials. Meanwhile, Gurugram on Wednesday reported 29 fresh cases of Covid-19, the highest single-day cases since June 11 when the city had reported 33 cases, according to the district health bulletin. With this, the tally of active cases currently stands at 130 in the district, of which four are hospitalised and 126 are under home isolation, the health officials said. On Wednesday, 11 recoveries were also reported from the district. The officials said that in the past one week most of the cases reported in the district are of people with domestic travel history. “Most of the new cases in the past few days are of people who have domestic travel history from places like Mumbai and Bengaluru. Many of such patients are either part of wedding functions or are contacts of those who went to the functions and tested positive. We have not found any cluster formation in these cases, though cases are being reported from the same family,” said Dr Jai Prakash, district surveillance officer. He further said that with 52 cases being reported within two days (23 cases on Tuesday), the positivity rate on Wednesday increased to 0.5% in the district, which was at 0.4% on Monday. The official also appealed to the residents to follow Covid-19 appropriate behaviour, wear masks and practise social distancing. Meanwhile, on Wednesday, 7,826 people were vaccinated against Covid-19 in Gurugram of which 1,590 were given the first dose while 6,236 were given the second dose. Till now, over 4.14 million doses of Covid-19 vaccine have been administered in the district. Gurugram deputy commissioner Yash Garg on Wednesday appealed to the residents to get vaccinated at the earliest to prevent spread of the virus. “The pandemic is not over yet. Therefore, we must take all precautions, follow Covid-19 appropriate behaviour and get vaccinated with both doses,” said Garg.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/uk-returnee-tests-ve-for-covid-in-gurugram-samples-sent-for-genome-sequencing-101640203806230.html
23-12-2021||Chandigarh||From Jan 1, public places in Haryana out of bounds for not fully vaccinated||Chandigarh: Come January 1 and only fully vaccinated individuals will be allowed access to public spaces in Haryana. This was stated by Haryana health minister Anil Vij in the state assembly on Wednesday. The move apparently is aimed at pushing reluctant or indifferent individuals to get the second shot of coronavirus vaccine. Haryana though has a high percentage of about 93% individuals inoculated with the first dose of coronavirus vaccine, the number of fully vaccinated persons is 61%. Neighbouring states like Delhi, Himachal Pradesh, Chandigarh, Jammu and Kashmir and Uttarakhand have a better second dose coverage than Haryana. According to the orders issued by additional chief secretary (ACS), health, Rajeev Arora, the deputy commissioners (DCs) of all 22 districts have been asked to direct head of offices or in-charge to constitute teams to ensure that only fully vaccinated persons are allowed access to public places. The DCs have also been asked to constitute multi-disciplinary teams to check the implementation of the restrictions. The order said that a large number of beneficiaries were due and overdue for long for inoculation of second dose of coronavirus vaccine. “New variants of coronavirus are emerging frequently and recently Omicron cases have shown an upward trend. Looking into the current scenario, steps need to be taken for increasing coverage of vaccination to mitigate spread of coronavirus,” the order said. The state government has decided that only fully vaccinated persons will be allowed entry in public places like private and public sector banks, religious places, petrol and CNG stations, LPG cylinder collection centres, sugar mills, milk booths, ration shops restaurants, bars, hotels, grain and vegetable markets, departmental stores, liquor and wine shops, shopping malls and complexes, cinema halls, haats, local market and places of public gathering. Only fully vaccinated persons will be allowed to travel from bus stands and railway stations. Parks, yogshalas, gym and fitness centres have also been directed to allow only those who have received second dose of vaccine. Managers and owners of these places will be instructed by deputy commissioners to ensure entry of only those who have received second dose of vaccination. ‘Violation facilitators to be booked’ACS, health, Rajeev Arora said that those allowing unvaccinated persons access in shops, malls cinemas etc can be booked under the provisions of Disaster Management Act. A separate order by the State Disaster Management Authority will be issued to this effect. The state government has also made vaccination mandatory for above 18 students of colleges, polytechnics. Truck and auto rickshaw unions will allow only second dose passengers. No individual including government servants will be allowed to visit government offices without being fully vaccinated. The civil surgeons have also been directed to depute vaccination teams where and whenever there is a demand by office in charge for on-the-spot vaccination or for regular vaccination camps at places of gathering. Box For vaccination verification Hard or soft copies of certificates of second dose First dose certificate to check if the second dose is due or notFor Covishield vaccine, a beneficiary will be eligible after 84 days of the administration of the first dose For Covaxin, the second dose is administered after 28 days of first dose For persons not having smartphones, text message sent by Cowin portal (NHPSMS) will be considered||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/from-jan-1-public-places-in-haryana-out-of-bounds-for-not-fully-vaccinated-101640203746202.html
23-12-2021||Other||59 trains cancelled as KMSC rail roko protest enters day 3||Ludhiana The Ferozepur division of the Northern Railways cancelled 59 trains on Wednesday, with the ‘rail roko’ protest of the Kisan Mazdoor Sangarsh Committee (KMSC) entered its third day. The KMSC is seeking complete waiver of farm loans. In addition to the cancellations, 35 trains were short-terminated and 34 trains were short originated.Farmers have blocked railway tracks at Jandiala in Amritsar-Jalandhar Railway Section; Tanda in Jalandhar-Pathankot Section; Tarn Taran in Amritsar-Khemkaran Section and Ferozpur in Bathinda-Ferozpur Railway Section.“In view of the Kisan Agitation in Ferozpur Division of northern railways, rail passengers are requested to check the desired trains before commencement of journey. Passengers may kindly check the status at Rail Madad Helpline number 139, NTES App and enquiry.indianrail.gov.in,” the northern railways said. The netizens and other vented out their anger at the turn on event. The twitter handle of Krunal Modi said that his parents had got stuck in Hardiwar due to a railway line being blocked near Ludhiana. “Along with them are 1400 more passengers. Kindly resume the train as soon as possible,” he pleaded on the micro blogging platform. Meanwhile, in a modicum of relief for passengers, trains were allowed to ferry passengers till Beas on Wednesday.“Earlier, trains coming from Delhi were allowed to ply till Jalandhar but since there was no blockage till Beas, trains on Wednesday ferried passengers till Beas,” said a senior official at Ludhiana railway station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/59-trains-cancelled-as-kmsc-rail-roko-protest-enters-day-3-101640203686106.html
23-12-2021||Chandigarh||Theft at Ajnala temple; sacrilege angle being probed, say cops||Days after two sacrilege bids at the Golden Temple and in Kapurthala, another incident of alleged desecration was reported at a temple in Amritsar’s Ajnala on Wednesday. Though preliminary probe points to theft, a special investigation team (SIT) formed to probe the incident is also looking into possible sacrilege bid. The incident took place at Sri Lakshmi Narayan Temple in a densely populated area of Ajnala town on the intervening night of Tuesday and Wednesday. The temple’s priest, Swami Satya Akash, said the incident came to light when he woke up around 5am. His room was locked from outside and he had to call a neighbour, he said.The miscreants who had barged into the temple fled with gold and artificial jewellery from idols, a motorcycle and around ₹1 lakh from donation boxes. Meanwhile, the premises was ransacked and two idols were left broken, said the priest. As the news spread, many Hindu and Sikh organisations gathered outside the temple, demanding the arrest of the accused.Deputy superintendent of police (DSP), Ajnala, Jasvir Singha, who is heading the SIT, said: “We are examining CCTV footage of the area. We have also been using our technical experts to trace the location of the accused. Our preliminary investigation has suggested that the accused had entered the temple with a motive of theft. We are also probing the sacrilege allegation and hope to nab the accused soon.”A case under Sections 457 (house-trespass), 380 (theft in dwelling house), 295 (injuring or defiling place of worship with intent to insult the religion of any class), 342 (wrongful confinement) and 34 (acts done by several persons in furtherance of common intention) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) has been registered against the unidentified persons at the Ajnala police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/theft-at-ajnala-temple-sacrilege-angle-being-probed-say-cops-101640203635730.html
23-12-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab polls: Not easy for Congress to repeat history in Amritsar||Due to its location along the international border and historical and religious importance, Amritsar is politically and strategically one of most important districts in the state. It has 11 assembly segments. Except Majitha, all seats are held by the Congress. However, as equations have changed in the past five years, it will be an uphill task for the ruling party to retain these seats in the upcoming Punjab polls, as the SAD is in a better position and even AAP is expected to give a tough fight on a few seats Amritsar North: Thanks to Joshi, SAD in fray for first time A Hindu-dominated urban seat, it covers the Civil Lines developed during the British rule. Considered a bastion of former BJP minister Anil Joshi, it was breached by Congress’ Sunil Dutti in 2017. After being expelled by the BJP over his anti-party statements on farm laws, Joshi is contesting the elections on the SAD ticket. Until now, the SAD was never in the fray, as its old ally BJP used to contest from here. The AAP has raised the stakes by fielding former Punjab Police IG Kunwar Vijay Partap Singh, who made news while heading the special investigation team that probed the post-sacrilege police firing incidents that killed two Sikh protesters. Deteriorating infrastructure and basic amenities in the area are the main issues. Amritsar West: Congress bastion for over two decades Once a stronghold of CPI leader Satyapal Dang — owing to his popularity among the labour population living in the textile hub of Chheharta — this assembly segment saw the rise of OP Soni, who is now the deputy CM, in 1997. Soni won the seat as an Independent twice before joining the Congress and retaining it in 2007. After the seat was reserved in 2012, Congress fielded its Dalit face Raj Kumar Verka, who continues to represent it in the Punjab assembly. Now a cabinet minister, he has got the party ticket again. During the SAD-BJP alliance, this seat was with the saffron party, but now the Akalis have fielded Dalbir Singh Verka, who served as an MLA from the erstwhile Verka segment twice. AAP and BJP are yet to declare their candidates. Amritsar Central: Two-cornered contest within walled city This is a key assembly segment of Punjab as it houses the holiest Sikh shrine, Golden Temple. Comprising 70% of the historical walled city, it is dominated by the Hindu electorate, though Sikh and Balmiki communities also constitute a sizeable population. The seat has been held by both the BJP and Congress in the past. After moving from Amritsar West, OP Soni — who is now the deputy CM — has won twice from here, defeating senior BJP leader Tarun Chugh, and is in the fray again. The contest is expected to remain two-cornered again, though the BJP is yet to announce its candidate. SAD’s new ally BSP will field its candidate but has a limited voter base. Even the AAP has not named any candidate yet. The densely populated walled city is one of the largest trading centre, but locals are facing many issues with the increase in footfall of visitors and devotees at the Golden Temple and introduction of vehicles that cause frequent traffic congestion. Existing sewerage facility is not able to bear the burden of mushrooming hotels, while sanitation remains a problem. Amritsar East: No match to Sidhu couple on their home turf Formed during delimitation in 2012, it comprises parts of erstwhile Amritsar Urban and Verka assembly segments. Its voter base is mixed, and has elected the Sidhu couple in the past two elections. While Navjot Kaur Sidhu won in 2012 on the BJP ticket, her husband Navjot Singh Sidhu won in 2017 as the Congress candidate. The Punjab Congress president will once again be in the fray from his bastion. Although Sidhu is often criticised for rarely visiting the constituency, his aides remain in touch with the people here. The rival parties, including SAD, BJP and AAP, have no big face to challenge him. Even former CM Captain Amarinder Singh is expected to field a candidate of his newly floated party Punjab Lok Congress. Main issues are related to basic amenities. Amritsar South: Cong MLA facing multiple challenges Comprising Sultanwind Road and Tarn Taran Road, it is the only Sikh-dominated constituency in Amritsar city. Though present MLA Inderbir Singh Bolaria is a Congressman, the SAD holds sway in the assembly segment. After his father and SAD MLA Raminder Singh Bolaria’s death, Inderbir won the seat on Akali ticket in the 2008 bypoll and 2012 assembly elections before moving to the Congress. However, the SAD has fielded a strong candidate, Talbir Singh Gill, against him this time. Former Congress MLA Harjinder Singh Thekedar, who recently joined Captain Amarinder Singh’s party, is likely to cut into the Congress vote share while AAP’s Dr Inderjit Singh Nijjar is also trying his best to garner support. Bhagatanwala garbage dump, the largest landfill in the city, is the key issue for voters as it has turned into an eyesore and is a health hazard. Ajnala: SAD back in reckoning with Ajnalas’ return Situated along the India-Pakistan border, Ajnala is considered a stronghold of SAD’s taksali (old guard) leader and two-time Lok Sabha MP Dr Rattan Singh Ajnala, who was elected as an MLA from here four times. His son Amarpal Singh Bony carried on the legacy, winning the seat in 2007 and 2012, but could not overcome anti-incumbency in 2017, losing to Congress’ Harpartap Singh. The Akalis got a jolt when Ajnala family floated SAD (Taksali) along with another old guard Ranjit Singh Brahmpura, but now Ajnala family is back with them. Though the main contest will remain between the SAD and Congress, AAP cannot be underestimated. According to political observers, a considerable section of the people is in the mood to vote for a third alternative, which could benefit AAP’s Kuldeep Singh Dhaliwal. A rural segment comprising Jat Sikhs and Rai Sikhs (SC), it lacks development. The mining mafia has damaged the agrarian land, roads and embankments on the Ravi. Rajasansi: SAD, Cong neck and neck in rural segment Barring Rajasansi and Chugawan towns, the segment is predominantly rural. Sri Guru Ram Das Jee International Airport and the famous Ram Tirath Temple, a holy shrine of Balmiki community, fall in this constituency. Dominated by Jat Sikhs, it has been a stronghold of the Akali Dal, but the Congress has managed to win the last three elections with narrow margins. Since 1997, the constituency has been witnessing contests between Vir Singh Lopoke (SAD) and Sukhbinder Singh Sarkaria (Congress). The two remained neck and neck in the previous two assembly elections. Sarkaria won the 2017 polls by just 1,084 votes, and his winning margin was 5,727 in 2012. Even the AAP has presence in this segment, but does not have any big name to challenge Sarkaria and Lopoke. Since a sizeable area of this constituency falls along the India-Pakistan International Border and the Ravi river, villages are backward and crying for government’s attention. Majitha: SAD bastion in the eye of controversy A rural constituency, Majitha is the home turf of SAD big gun Bikram Singh Majithia. In the centre of controversy after being booked in a drug case, the former cabinet minister has been accused by the opposition of using muscle power and high handedness. Brother-in-law of party president Sukhbir Singh Badal, Bikram Singh has been elected from here in the last three assembly elections. In fact, in the 2017 polls, Majitha was the only seat out of the 25 seats in Punjab’s Majha belt where the Akalis secured a thumping victory. Also, Majitha was among the few places where the SAD secured victories during local bodies and panchayat elections. Congress had fielded Sukhjinder Raj Singh Lally Majithia in the past two elections, but has not named anyone for the 2022 polls yet. The AAP, which secured 8.4% votes in 2017, is also yet to announce its candidate. Apart from Jat Sikhs, who are in a majority here, the Mazhabi Sikh community also has a considerable population. Support of both communities is the key factor in elections. Jandiala Guru: AAP set to give a tough fight A reserved constituency which is basically rural, it has Jat Sikhs, Kamboz Sikhs and Mazhabi Sikhs as the main constituents, though even Hindu community has presence in Jandiala Guru town. Mehta Chowk, which is the headquarters of Sikh seminary Damdami Taksal, falls in this constituency and wields influence. SAD is finding itself on a sticky wicket, after former MLA Malkiat Singh AR, who was declared as its candidate, is reported to be unwell. Thus, the ticket might be shifted to his son or other leaders, including former MLAs Baljit Singh Jalal Usma and Manjit Singh Manna Mianwind. On the other hand, incumbent MLA Sukhwinder Singh Danny Bandala, who is also the working president of Punjab Congress, is almost sure to contest the polls. The AAP factor will also play a key role in this constituency, as party candidate Harbhajan Singh, who is a former PCS officer, performed well in the last elections and secured more than 27% votes. Attari: Locals looking for a third alternative This Akali stronghold represented by Gulzar Singh Ranike from 1997 to 2017 was breached by Congress’ Tarsem Singh DC in the last election. Basically a rural constituency, it also comprises private townships and sub-urban areas situated on the outskirts of Amritsar city. The locals say the contest is set to be a triangular one, as Jaswinder Singh Ramdas, who is staking his claim to the Aam Aadmi Party ticket, may give a tough fight to both the main rivals. Livelihood of thousands of people depends on the international trade being facilitated through the integrated check post at the India-Pakistan border. However, trade is suspended for a long time. Even health facilities are not up to the mark. With their issues remaining unresolved even after sending a Congress MLA to a Congree-majority assembly, the voters could go for the AAP this time. Baba Bakala: Both Cong, SAD face infighting Formed during delimitation in 2012, Baba Bakala mainly comprises areas of the old Beas segment from where both the Congress and SAD registered victories in almost equal numbers. The rural segment is reserved for SCs and is the home constituency of Khadoor Sahib MP Jasbir Singh Dimpa, who was also an MLA from the erstwhile Beas segment. Both the Congress and SAD are facing infighting this time. While a tug of war is going on between former MLAs Baljit Singh Jalalusma and Manjit Singh Manna Mianwind in the SAD, the incumbent Congress MLA Santokh Singh Bhalaipur is facing challenge from former three-time MLA Ranjit Singh Chhajjalwaddi, whose son Satinder Singh Chhajjalwaddi wants to contest the polls. Even Punjab Congress president Navjot Singh Sidhu has extended his support to Chhajjalwadi. Similarly, there is no clarity about the AAP candidate yet. 
23-12-2021||Chandigarh||In seven yrs, Haryana registered 7% conviction rate in snatching cases||CHANDIGARH: Haryana has registered 7% conviction rate in chain and purse snatching cases registered in past seven years. According to the data state government released in response to a question of Congress MLA Bharat Bhushan Batra, 3,076 cases of chain snatching and 1,409 cases of purse snatching were registered in the state from 2015 to November 2021. Out of the total registered cases, the accused were convicted in 310 (188 in chain snatching, 122 in purse snatching). In chain snatching cases 1,208 challans were presented, 188 accused were convicted and 638 are under trials. In purse snatching cases, 777 challans were presented and 411 cases are under trial. In other words, challans were not presented in 1,868 chain snatching and 632 purse snatching cases. Haryana home minister Anil Vij requested all MLAs to call on dial 112 helpline in case of emergency and cross-check the prompt police response. He said after receiving the call, the police reach the spot within 17 minutes 54 seconds. Acute shortage of medical staff “There is an acute shortage of medical and paramedical staff in the state,” Vij informed the Vidhan Sabha on Wednesday. “The shortage,” he said, “is more acute in the cases of medical officers.” The minister said that at present out of 3,685 sanctioned posts of medical officers as many as 1,070 posts are lying vacant. “Efforts are being made to fill the vacancies,” Vij assured the House. Vidhayak Adarsh Gram Yojana In Haryana, an MLA of an urban assembly constituency can choose a nearest village in rural assembly constituency for development under the Vidhayak Adarsh Gram Yojana (VAGY), deputy chief minister Dushyant Chautala said. He said in December 2018 it was decided that for the development works of each assembly constituency up to ₹2 crore will be provided annually according to the population of the village. He said that an MLA can recommend development works worth ₹50 lakh for a village with a population of up to 5,000, ₹1 crore for a village with a population of 5,000 to 10,000 and ₹2 crore for a village with a population of more than 10,000. He said that on September 20 permission had been given to release the pending amount for the year 2019-20.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/in-seven-yrs-haryana-registered-7-conviction-rate-in-snatching-cases-101640203633180.html
23-12-2021||Chandigarh||Sacrilege bid has potential to polarise people in Punjab: Capt Amarinder||Former Punjab chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh on Wednesday said that the sacrilege bid at the Golden Temple has the potential to polarise people along religious lines, which can lead to unrest and trouble in the state. Capt Amarinder, who has floated his separate party after quitting the Congress, said that foreign agencies like Pakistan’s Inter-Services Intelligence (ISI) were active in Punjab in coordination with sleeper cells of various secessionist and terrorist groups. “They are desperately waiting for an opportunity to exploit such a situation and strike,” he said in an informal interaction with reporters in Chandigarh. The two-time former chief minister said that in the changed security scenario in South Asia, with China and Pakistan having come together and almost becoming “one country”, India would need to be more alert and vigilant. Given the geographical position of Punjab, the state faced more security challenges now, he added. Asked to comment on Punjab Congress president Navjot Singh Sidhu’s demand for public execution for those found guilty of sacrilege, he said: “We are against sacrilege. There is a Constitution in the country. We have to follow the law. If we do not follow the Constitution or law, how the country will move forward?” The Punjab Lok Congress leader also castigated Sidhu for making such a comment. Sidhu had made the remarks at a public meeting in Malerkotla, a day after a sacrilege accused was beaten to death at the Golden Temple on December 18. Capt Amarinder added that there was no justification for mob lynching. On being asked to name the Congress ministers and MLAs involved in illegal sand mining, about whom he had made a reference in his resignation letter to Congress president Sonia Gandhi last month, Capt Amarinder deflected the query, stating he would have to start from the top. The former CM had stated that on illegal sand mining, the offenders were the substantive bulk of Congress MLAs and ministers, including an “overwhelming number in the current government”, indicating his intention to make their names public. Capt Amarinder said he had requested Prime Minister Narendra Modi for ₹1 lakh crore package to Punjab over five years to help the state diversify from water-guzzling paddy to pulses. “We will need ₹20,000 crore each year to give the minimum support price to farmers for pulses,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/sacrilege-bid-has-potential-to-polarise-people-in-punjab-capt-amarinder-101640203631801.html
23-12-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab polls: Bhagwant Mann slams Congress, Akalis over plight of border areas||Aam Aadmi Party (AAP)’s Punjab chief Bhagwant Mann on Tuesday castigated the successive governments in the state for ignoring development in border areas.Addressing a poll rally at Ajnala assembly segment in Amritsar district, Mann said that even though every region of Punjab is tackling the same set of problems of drugs, unemployment, poverty and inflation, people in areas along the India-Pakistan border are facing additional hardships after being ignored by the Congress, Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) and Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) for long.Mann said he has been constantly raising the issue of compensation for farmers who have agricultural land beyond the border, but the Congress government has not released a single penny. Slamming both the Congress and SAD, the AAP leader said: “They haven’t done anything in 44 years, and they are not going to do anything in the next five years either. These parties don’t have any agenda or development plans, but they are shamelessly asking for one more chance to plunder Punjab.” Mann said the AAP was the only party talking about development issues, like schools, hospitals, employment and children’s future. He also urged the voters to stay alert and not let incidents of sacrilege lead them astray from the issues of development.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-polls-bhagwant-mann-slams-congress-akalis-over-plight-of-border-areas-101640203630529.html
23-12-2021||Chandigarh||HC seeks PGIMER board report on health of Sukhpal Khaira||The Punjab and Haryana high court has asked the Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER), Chandigarh, to constitute a board to examine the health of Congress leader Sukhpal Singh Khaira, who is lodged in the Patiala jail in a money laundering case.The order was passed by the HC bench of justice Sureshwar Thakur on Khaira’s bail plea. The former Punjab MLA is presently in judicial custody after being arrested by the Enforcement Directorate (ED) on November 11. Khaira had told court that he was suffering from prostrate cancer, which makes him vulnerable to contracting Covid-19 infection. The HC said that the board would examine whether Khaira’s health condition has deteriorated by critical ailments due to him being in jail, and whether requisite facilities are not available in jail or in the hospital where he is being taken to for examination. Further, the board will look into whether he requires to be with his family for ensuring that he is regularly attended to and whether he requires hospitalisation.The court also directed superintendent, Central Jail, Patiala, to deploy escorts with Khaira for his check up at the PGIMER. The medical opinion is to be filed in the HC on January 18.The central agency had arrested Khaira in connection with a 2015 FIR registered under the Prevention of Money Laundering Act. Four people have already been convicted in the case. Khaira, who joined the Congress in June, has all along maintained that these proceedings are part of “political vendetta”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/hc-seeks-pgimer-board-report-on-health-of-sukhpal-khaira-101640203629068.html
23-12-2021||Other||Faridabad: Five held for duping people on pretext of credit card points||The Faridabad police on Tuesday night arrested two men and took three others on production remand for allegedly duping many people on the pretext of redeeming their credit card points. The mastermind of the gang and his two accomplices were operating from Delhi’s Tihar and Mandoli jails, police said, adding that the suspects have duped over 50 people in Delhi-NCR and transferred over ₹65 lakh to their bank accounts in the last one year. Police said the suspects used to create a text message that would reach their potential targets informing them about their cards’ reward points, which could be used to get cashback offers and discounts. The suspects were identified as Vikas, Rohit, Imran, Muzib and Amanuullah alias Guddu. Police said Muzib is a native of Budaun in Uttar Pradesh and others are from Delhi. Narender Kadiyan, deputy commissioner of police (crime), said that Vikas is the mastermind of the gang. “Vikas and Imran were lodged in Tihar jail while Muzib was in Mandoli jail. They were taken on production remand. Four other gang members have been identified but they are yet to be arrested,” he said. Kadiyan said Rohit and Amanullah used to throw packets containing mobile phones inside the jail premises. “Imran used to pick these mobile phones and used to hand over to Vikas who would make calls and send messages,” he said, adding that the suspects devised a cunning way to make the victims disclose their confidential bank details. The incident came to the fore after the gang duped a Faridabad resident, Yashpal Singh, of ₹95,000 last week following which a cheating case was registered at Cyber police station. Then a team was formed led by Basant Kumar, station house officer of the Cyber police station, who arrested the five gang members, said the officials. These suspects have been involved in cyber fraud for a long time, Kadiyan said, adding that they used to get phone numbers and other details through online sites. “The suspects used to generate fake link similar to that of a bank and victims used to fill in all details following which they used to transfer money from their accounts,” he said. Police said the suspects used to send at least 100,000 SMSes everyday. They used to ask customers to fill details such as credit card number, expiry date, CVV number, and email ID and its password in the fake online form and then they would use all the details accordingly, said police. Basant Kumar, SHO, Cyber police station, said that the credit card details were used to do online shopping. “The suspects were using property websites for the fraud as people fill their house address and other details in that. They used to create account on the name of the victim and an online wallet was created. The victim used to receive OTP on his/her email, but as the suspects had the email account’s password they used to take OTP and then delete the email. The money used to get transferred to their bank accounts linked to the wallet,” he said. Police said Vikas is involved in several cyber cases since 2017. There are 18 cases against Vikas in Delhi-NCR, of which nine are registered in Delhi, seven in Gurugram and two in Faridabad. 
23-12-2021||Chandigarh||Haryana assembly session: Vij orders transfer doc during Question Hour||CHANDIGARH: Congress MLA Shamsher Singh Gogi caused quite a flutter in the Haryana Vidhan Sabha on Wednesday when he indirectly raised the issue of alleged corruption depriving people of the Assandh segment of better health facilities.During the question hour, Gogi initially wanted to know when the capacity of 100-bed hospital in Assandh will be increased as reportedly announced by chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar.However, health minister Anil Vij said that there was no such announcement or proposal and assured the House that the CM’s announcement is a “pathar ki lakir” (final word) for everybody in the government.Gogi reiterated that the CM had made the announcement in question and other Congress MLAs stood up in support of the Assandh MLA.“Our hospital is itself unwell. When will this hospital recover from its illness,” Gogi said and made it clear that he was unconvinced with the straightforward reply of the health minister. The MLA indirectly referred to institutional corruption in the health department and hinted that one doctor was a stumbling block. At this, visibly upset Vij asked the MLA to reveal the name of the doctor. “Dr Jaipal Chahal,” said Gogi and Vij announced: “Dr Chahal stands relieved right now.” And referring to Gogi’s “hospital is ailing” plea and how promptly Vij treated it on the floor of the House, speaker Gian Chand Gupta quipped: “Ek bimari dur ho gai, dusri bhi ho jayegi (one disease has been diagnosed and the second will also be taken care of).” Later, in a statement, an official spokesperson said health minister Anil Vij said that Dr Jaipal Chahal, medical officer of civil hospital at Assandh, has been relieved with immediate effect and transferred to civil hospital, Panipat. “Vij passed these orders during the ongoing winter session...on the demand made by MLA Shamsher Singh Gogi ...A letter has also been issued by the Civil Surgeon, Karnal in this regard,” the spokesperson said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/haryana-assembly-session-vij-orders-transfer-doc-during-question-hour-101640203386170.html
23-12-2021||Other||SAD gaining by Cong’s vendetta politics: Sukhbir||Sultanpur Lodhi Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) president Sukhbir Singh Badal said on Wednesday said the more the Congress government tried to suppress his party through vendetta politics, the more popular it would become.“People have already seen through the Congress game, and will never forgive it for wasting five years in just politicising the sensitive issue of sacrilege,” he told a rally, in support of party candidate Capt Harminder Singh in Sultanpur Lodhi, in Kapurthala. He added, “The SAD is not only fighting against the Congress party in Punjab, but also the Central government and the AAP government of Delhi. Attempts are also being made to weaken the party and our Sikh institutions.” “The Congress is raking up the issue of sacrilege as well as registering a false case against Bikram Singh Majithia, only to divert attention from its failures. Punjabis also understand the double game that AAP, an anti-Punjab party, is playing in Punjab,” he claimed. On the drugs case against Majithia, he said the Congress government had changed two DGPs and three Bureau of Investigation (BOI) directors to implement its vendetta. “Eventually, it was a DGP, not even eligible for empanelment as a regular DGP, who was given the post as a quid pro quo for registering a false case, who did it,” he alleged. “We will take this corrupt and vengeful government to task. All those who are working outside the purview of the constitution will have to answer for their omissions and commissions as per law,” added Sukhbir. “We are committed to development, including the construction of a ‘Bundh’, to ensure there is no crop damage due to flooding anywhere in the state,” said the Ferozepur MP. Core committee meeting todayIn the wake of recent attempts of sacrilege and the registration of an FIR against former minister Bikram Singh Majithia, Sukhbir has summoned a meeting of the party’s core committee, the top decision-making body, on Thursday. In view of Majithia being booked in a drugs case, the party plans to launch protests and corner the Charanjit Singh Channi government on the issues of sacrilege and the alleged witch-hunt of the party’s top leaders, Badals and Majithia. Since Channi has taken charge, the SAD has alleged, repeatedly, that the state government was hatching a conspiracy to implicate Sukhbir and Majithia in drug cases. YAD to gherao offices of SSPs, commissioners tomorrowThe Youth Akali Dal (YAD) on Wednesday announced that it gherao offices of district police heads across the state, including SSPs and commissioners, on December 24 (Friday), to protest against the registration of an FIR against Majithia. YAD president Parambans Singh Romana has charged the Congress government of using the ‘personal opinion’ of a Punjab police officer, who was related to Majithia, but had a strained relationship. Romana alleged that DGP S Chattopadhyaya had breached all norms of professional policing, by ordering the registration of the case against Majithia.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/sad-gaining-by-cong-s-vendetta-politics-sukhbir-101640203326448.html
23-12-2021||Other||Dense fog alert for two days in Gurugram, minimum temp at 4.8°C||The India Meteorological Department on Wednesday issued a dense fog alert for south Haryana, including Gurugram, for the next two days, as the city recorded the minimum temperature below five degrees for the second consecutive day at 4.8 degrees Celsius (°C), which was two degrees below normal.The day temperature, that is the maximum temperature, was recorded at 21.5°C, which was one degree above normal, the IMD said. The Meteorological Centre Chandigarh, a regional centre of the IMD, issued a weather warning for Thursday and Friday predicting dense fog in south and south-east Haryana, which include districts such as Gurugram, Faridabad, Palwal, Mewat, and Rewari. “A dense fog alert has been issued for Thursday and Friday due to the impact of a western disturbance in the Himalayan region. There is also possibility of light rain at a few places in the south Haryana region on Sunday. Over the next three days, minimum temperatures across the state will rise by three to five degrees,” said Manmohan Singh, director of Meteorological Centre Chandigarh. On Wednesday, Gurugram recorded ‘very poor’ air quality for the second consecutive day with an air quality index of 357, according to the Central Pollution Control Board’s 4pm bulletin. On Tuesday, the city had recorded an AQI of 314. Owing to slow and calm winds and poor ventilation conditions, the air quality will remain in ‘very poor’ condition over the next two days, the IMD said. Meanwhile, health experts in the city have asked citizens to take special care of children as with low temperatures, viral and allergy cases increase. Dr Sanjay Gupta, senior consultant for internal medicine at Paras Hospital, Gurugram, said, “Due to a sudden dip in the temperature, chances of respiratory infection, fever, cough, runny nose, and worsening of throat have increased. To avoid this, people should wear warm clothes even if it’s sunny and take special care of children. If the fever starts to increase significantly, then immediately consult a doctor. In low temperatures, people with mental health issues and elderly people may get hyperthermia, the family members of such people should take special care of their clothes and food.” Dr Amitabh Parti, director of internal medicine at Fortis Memorial Research Institute, Gurugram, said, “As the temperature drops, a frequent movement across widely variant temperature from a heated room to a cold environment should be avoided. Nutritionally one should be adequately hydrated with the conventional six to eight glasses of water every day. Directly exposing to extremities of a heater, blower or a bonfire should be avoided as it may cause thermal injuries.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/dense-fog-alert-for-two-days-in-gurugram-minimum-temp-at-48c-101640203266102.html
23-12-2021||Chandigarh||Haryana: Woman among 2 held for duping army job aspirants||KARNAL: Two people, including a woman, have been arrested by the crime investigation agency (CIA) of Karnal police for allegedly duping hundreds of youths on the pretext of helping them get jobs in the army.The accused have been identified as Parvesh Devi of Karnal’s Gharaunda town and Manjur Ahmad Ganni of Jammu and Kashmir. Manjur was carrying a reward of ₹25,000 on his head.The investigators claimed that the accused were active for the past couple of months and have duped 280 aspirants across Haryana of ₹6 crore.Deepender Rana, in-charge of the CIA-I sad the police had a got a complaint from a man, who runs a coaching academy in Ambala, against Pravesh Devi, accusing her of duping several candidates of his academy on the pretext of helping them in the selection. She, along with Manjur, used to take around ₹4 lakh per candidate and even provided fake joining letters to several candidates, claimed the police.Following the complaint, the police arrested her from Kurukshetra on December 18 and during the interrogation, she revealed that she was working with Manjur and police also arrested him on Wednesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/haryana-woman-among-2-held-for-duping-army-job-aspirants-101640203206766.html
23-12-2021||Chandigarh||Gender test racket busted in Karnal, three arrested||KARNAL: Officials of the Karnal health department busted a pre-natal sex determination racket with the arrest of four people, including two women. The officials also recovered ₹14,000 from the accused paid to them by a decoy customer.The raid was conducted following a tip-off that some persons were involved in the racket with a portable ultrasound machine. The team of the health department with the help of police officials conducted the raid and managed to arrest Nadeem of Karnal and Rajnish and Baliser of Uttar Pradesh.Deputy civil surgeon and nodal officer for the PNDT Act, Karnal, Dr Sheenu said the officials formed a team with the help of a decoy customer. The accused agreed to conduct the ultrasound and they arrested them with ₹14,000. The accused have been booked under the relevant sections of the Pre-Conception and Pre-Natal Diagnostic Techniques (PCPNDT) Act.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/gender-test-racket-busted-in-karnal-three-arrested-101640202966635.html
23-12-2021||Other||Gurugram: MCG fails to make four markets free of plastic bags||Nearly a year after it started an initiative to make four markets in the city free of plastic bags, the Municipal Corporation of Gurugram (MCG) has found success in none of them. Even as the violations for using polythene bags go unchecked, officials said that the campaign has taken a back seat due to the Covid-19 pandemic. Last December, the civic body had finalised four markets in each of its four administrative zones located at sectors 4, 23, 46, and Vyapar Kendra in Sushant Lok 1 for the polythene-free initiative.The officials said that during the initial stages they had success in turning some areas of these markets into polythene-free zones. However, after the second Covid-19 wave in April-May and transferring of MCG officials overseeing the project, the initiative has stalled, they said.“In December 2020 and January this year, the polythene-free campaign was at its peak as around the time officials from the central government were visiting the city for the Swachh Survekshan 2021. In April, the second Covid-19 wave occurred and as a result the campaign was temporarily suspended,” said a senior MCG official, requesting anonymity.In February, the MCG had issued a notification stating that from March using plastic bags can invite a penalty of ₹500.“In early June, the joint commissioner of MCG for Swachh Bharat Mission (SBM) overseeing the initiative was transferred. The position continues to lie vacant and officials have simply forgotten about the initiative since August. The usage of polythene bags has returned to as it was before December 2020,” said another MCG official privy to the matter.On July 6, a former MCG official had sent a letter to the directorate of urban local bodies (ULB), a copy of which is with HT, stating that on July 12, eight markets, two in each municipal zone, will become free of plastic bags, and on July 15 the MCG will declare this publicly.In the letter, the official had also stated that the civic body will start issuing fines for using polythene bags from July 12 onwards.“The letter sent to the ULB was completely baseless and had nothing to do ground reality. The MCG was struggling to make four markets polythene-free, and another four were added to the list. The official who had issued the letter was also transferred soon after and challaning for polythene usage never started,” said the official quoted above.To supplement its polythene-free initiative, the MCG has also introduced cloth bag banks. The banks are supposed to supply cloth bags at nominal rates to shopkeepers in the four markets.“From each of the four markets, we still have two-three shopkeepers procuring cloth bags on a mass level, and they account for more than 60% of our supply. In a year, we have distributed around 300,000 cloth bags and saved around 1,500,000 polythene bags,” said Kuldeep Singh, brand ambassador (SBM), MCG.In December last year, MCG had opened its first cloth bag bank in Sector 8, the second such facility opened in South City 2 last month, and on December 11 the third bank opened in Wazirabad.
23-12-2021||Chandigarh||Karnal to get cricket stadium of international standards||KARNAL: Chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar’s constituency Karnal will soon has a cricket stadium of international standards with a seating capacity of 2,5000.Officials privy to the development said the stadium will be set up on around 26 acres in Daha village under the Karnal municipal corporation limits of the district under the Karnal Smart City Project.Officials monitoring the project said that chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar has already given his approval to the project. The stadium will be set up on the pattern of the Punjab Cricket Association’s Mohali cricket stadium and the estimated cost of the project will be around ₹100 crore.The stadium it will have a direct access to the Chandigarh-Delhi National Highway 44 and later the road will be widened to four-lane. The tendering process for the project will start soon and it will be completed within two years, said officials.Karnal deputy commissioner cum-CEO, Karnal Smart City Ltd, Nishant Kumar Yadav said the stadium will be constructed according to the standards of the Board of Control for Cricket in India (BCCI). He said the BCCI’s certification will be must for the contractors for the completion of the project.The stadium will have several cricket pitches, practice grounds, hostel facility, besides parking area, basketball and volleyball courts. Yadav said there is also a plan to lay hockey AstroTurf over six acres in Kailash village. The project entails a cost of ₹14 crore, he added. 
23-12-2021||Chandigarh||3 of family found dead in Jind village||Rohtak: Three members of a family, including a couple and their son, were found dead in their house at a Jind village, police said on Wednesday.According to information, a 48-year-old man, his wife (45) and their 20-year-old son were found hanging in their house on Wednesday morning. Before taking the extreme step, they purportedly shared a video on social media accusing Garhi police check-post in-charge Pawan Kumar of implicating them in a fake murder case and torturing them.On November 21, a co-villager, Mani Ram, alias Nanu, was found dead and his body was recovered from a sack near a drain. The 48-year-old man, who ended his life, was a suspect in his murder case.In the purported video, the trio said: “Cop Pawan Kumar along with Mani Ram’s family had tried to implicate us in the murder case. It is good to end the life instead of facing torture.”Garhi police check-post in-charge Pawan Kumar said prima facie it appears that the trio died on Tuesday night. He also refuted allegation of torturing the victim’s family.“We are investigating whether they ended their lives or someone else was behind the gruesome incident. The 48-year-old man was a suspect in the murder case. We are probing the case from every angle. His brother had also ended his life a few months ago. A team of forensic science laboratory (FSL) also visited the site and collected samples. Inquest proceedings have been initiated under Section 174 of the CrPc,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/3-of-family-found-dead-in-jind-village-101640202666508.html
23-12-2021||Lucknow||216 active Covid cases in UP, 7 cities account for 148 of these||LUCKNOW Uttar Pradesh’s active Covid case count rose to 216 with 21 fresh cases surfacing on Wednesday and seven cities accounted for 148 of these cases, according to data from the state health department.Lucknow had the highest -- 47 of them, Gautam Buddha Nagar 30, Ghaziabad 25, Muzaffarnagar 14, Saharanpur 12, Varanasi 11 and Prayagraj 9.“Of the total 1,84,494 samples tested in the past 24 hours, 21 tested positive for Covid infection. A total 9,12,39,026 samples have been tested in the state till now,” said Amit Mohan Prasad, additional chief secretary, medical health, in a press statement. Saharanpur reported four fresh Covid cases while Lucknow, Gautam Buddha Nagar, Ghaziabad and Prayagraj reported three each. Agra reported two cases. Hamirpur, Meerut and Amroha reported one each. No death was reported in the state. So far, UP had reported 17,10,764 cases and 22,915 deaths, including a maximum 2,38,946 cases and 2,651 deaths in Lucknow. Sixteen of the 21 fresh cases were from these seven cities, which also account for a major chunk of the total 17,10,764 Covid cases reported in UP till now. Lucknow leads with 2,38,946 cases, followed by Varanasi 85,516 cases and Prayagraj 78,735 cases, as per the data. The health department intensified testing and contact tracing in these districts. “We are conducting focused sampling for Covid among people who walk out of their houses for work. Samples are being collected from among students, teachers, drivers working in public transport sector, shopkeepers including chemists and hospital front office staff,” said Dr Manoj Agrawal, chief medical officer, Lucknow. He said the drive will continue till December 28. Health and family welfare minister Jai Pratap Singh said after the World Health Organisation and the Indian Council of Medical Research sounded alert on the new Omicron variant of Sars-CoV-2, the UP government directed all the DMs and CMOs to focus on effective implementation of trace, test, treat and vaccination drive. No fresh Covid case had been reported in 39 districts of the states in the last 24 hours while hospitals were equipped with beds, human resources, medicines and oxygen to provide treatment to Covid patients, said officials. Experts said the risk of infection spread was more due to floating population that visited Lucknow and left after a day or two. “Intensified screening of passengers at airport, railway station and toll gates at highways/expressways (entry point of the state capital) is one way to identify people with Covid infection early,” said Dr PK Gupta, microbiologist and former president of the Indian Medical Association branch. Covid vax doses cross 19-cr mark The total number of Covid vaccine doses administered in Uttar Pradesh since January 16 (when the vaccination began in the country) crossed the 19-crore mark on Wednesday. By 9.30 pm, 19,00,01,931 doses were administered which included over 12.36 crore first and over 6.63 crore second doses, according to the health department.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/216-active-covid-cases-in-up-7-cities-account-for-148-of-these-101640202186276.html
23-12-2021||Lucknow||Kanpur man gets 10-yr jail term for raping, kidnapping minor||KANPUR A man in Kanpur was sentenced to 10 years imprisonment and slapped a fine of ₹30,000 for kidnapping and raping a minor girl in 2017. The quantum of punishment was announced by additional district and sessions judge Pavan Kumar on Tuesday evening.In May 2017, the girl’s family had accused 22-year-old Javed of ‘love jihad’ after he introduced himself to the minor girl as ‘Munna’ and promised to marry her. He was arrested on May 17, two days after he eloped with the14-year-old girl in Juhi police area. The police lodged an FIR under Sections 363, 366A, 376 of the IPC and relevant sections of Pocso Act, after tracing the girl and arresting Javed, said district government counsel Dilip Awasthi. Awasthi said this was the first case in Uttar Pradesh wherein a man accused of ‘love jihad’ was sentenced to 10 years imprisonment. The girl’s family stated that she learnt about the real identity of Javed when she was pressurised for nikah, to which she had refused. In her statements recorded before the magistrate under Section 164 of the CrPC she also accused Javed of outraging her modesty. Subsequently, the victim’s family had approached the Special Investigation Team (SIT). However, Kanpur police commissioner Asim Arun said the man had not been convicted under the Uttar Pradesh’s anti-conversion law passed earlier this year.Sharing the details of sentencing, Arun said the court awarded him 10 years rigorous imprisonment and ₹10,000 fine for rape and 7-year jail and ₹8,000 fine under section 4 of the Pocso Act. It also awarded him 5 years of rigorous imprisonment and ₹5,000 fine under section 363, 7 years jail and ₹7,000 fine under section 366 of the IPC, he said. The jail terms will run concurrently. Inputs from PTI||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/kanpur-man-gets-10-yr-jail-term-for-raping-kidnapping-minor-101640201705891.html
23-12-2021||Other||Police cremate Golden Temple sacrilege bid accused||Amritsar After a wait of 72 hours, the Punjab Police on Wednesday cremated the body of the unidentified man, accused in the Golden Temple sacrilege bid. Doctors from the civil hospital conducted his post-mortem before the cremation. With nothing recovered from his possession, his identity could not be established. Amritsar deputy commissioner of police (law and order) Parminder Singh Bhandal, who is heading the Special Investigation Team (SIT) that the Punjab government had formed to probe the incident said, “As per rules, we kept the body in our custody for 72 hours, and advertised his photo grabbed from the CCTV footage, so that any of his survivors, relatives and nears and dears could come forward and claim the body, Nobody surfaced, so we cremated his body as per rules.” The incident took place on the evening of December 18, when the accused tried to desecrate the Guru Granth Sahib inside the sanctum sanctorum of the Golden Temple during the evening rituals. He rushed towards the holy book after jumping the railings, and picked up a ‘kirpan’. Before he could do anything more, SGPC staffers got hold of him, and the crowd of devotees thrashed him to death. “Initial fingerprints of the accused failed to match with the Aadhaar card data. Maybe, he did not have an Aadhaarcard. Still, we have taken prints of remaining parts of the fingers of his hand to establish his identity. These prints have been sent to the department concerned in Delhi,” Bhandal added. Bhandal added that CCTV footage shows that the accused had also visited the area outside the Sri Darbar Sahib (Golden Temple) on December 16, two days before the sacrilege bid. “With the help of the CCTV footage, we are now trying to ascertain for which purpose he came on that day and how long did he stay.” On the completion of the probe, the deadline of which ended on Tuesday, the DCP added, “Investigation is underway, yet as we need more time to get a strong lead in this case. The post-mortem report will reveal the cause of death and is expected to take the probe forward.” 
23-12-2021||Other||Behbal Kalan firing: Jobs, compensation no substitute for justice, say victims’ kin||Faridkot A day after Punjab Congress president Navjot Singh Sidhu urged the state government to give jobs to families of victims of police firing at Behbal Kalan and Kotkapura in October 2015, the families have said that jobs or compensation could never be a substitute for justice. Sukhraj Singh, son of 2015 Behbal Kalan police firing victim Bhagwan Krishan Singh, whose protest sit-in for justice, entered the 7th day on Wednesday, said, “The government should punish those responsible for sacrilege and police firing incidents first, and after that, they should talk about giving jobs on compassionate grounds.”He added, “For votes, Sidhu’s own party leaders are visiting the Dera Sacha Sauda, which is responsible for sacrilege incidents, but he has not issued any statement on whether the Congress will stop taking the dera’s help. The least he can do as state party president is to ask Congress leaders to boycott the Sirsa Dera.”On Monday, Sidhu had joined Sukhraj, who is sitting on an indefinite protest against the delay in delivery of justice. “The government has only made false promises in the name of justice. Now, after five years again they are making hollow promises of jobs and justice,” said Sadhu Singh, father of Gurjeet Singh, who was also killed at Behbal Kalan firing. Dal Khalsa spokesperson Kanwar Pal Singh said Sikh outfits had decided to hold an “Ardas Samagam” at the Akal Takht and the Behbal Morcha on December 26, seeking the release of Jagtar Singh Hawara, Balwant Singh Rajoana and Devinder Pal Singh Bhullar and six other Sikh prisoners who have completed their life sentences. “The Congress is busy in gimmicks, instead of delivering justice in sacrilege and police firing incidents. The plan of the Behbal Morcha will be announced on Sunday,” he added. 
23-12-2021||Lucknow||Gadkari claim about ethanol mere rhetoric, say farmers||MEERUT Union minister of surface transport Nitin Gadkari’s assurance to farmers that they would soon be known as ‘ urjadaata’ (energy-giver) by introducing ethanol as alternative fuel for vehicles has had least impact on sugarcane farmers who believe it to be as another ‘jumla’ (mere remark or rhetoric) of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) to please farmers ahead of the assembly elections in UP. Launching the party’s ‘Jan Vishwas Yatra’ from Bijnor on Sunday, Gadkari had announced that ethanol would be used as an alternative to petroleum fuel in coming years. He said ethanol was produced from sugarcane and rice, so farmers would be in the role of ‘ urjadaata’ in coming years. He also shared that vehicles’ engines were being modified to use ethanol as fuel and separate ethanol pumps would be opened to ensure easy availability of this alternative fuel. Responding to claims of the union minister, BKU leader Rakesh Tikait said that farmers’ benefits depended on honest implementation of policies and plans. He said the state governments of Chhattisharh and Odisha had sought permission for production of ethanol but it was pending with the union government. “Permission to produce ethanol in states would benefit rice and sugar mills and farmers would receive subsequent benefit out of it by selling them their produce at MSP,” he explained. Tikait suggested to first use ethanol in tractors and vehicles in Delhi as well as Delhi Transport Corporation buses to know its real impact before applying it to other vehicles. He reiterated that the farmers’ condition could not be improved without giving direct subsidy. “Inflation is at a high and the government is investing very little in education, health and other segments which are directly associated with the welfare of people,” he said and shared that leaders of the Sanyukt Kisan Morcha would meet in Delhi on January 15 to discuss and decide the future course of action regarding issues of farmers and farming. Surendra Singh, national vice president of BKU (Asli), was more critical and made no bones in admitting that the BJP had lost peoples’ trust. He said,“What Gadkari said seems another attempt of BJP leaders to woo farmers by tossing another ‘jumla’”. He said that 10 percent ethanol was already being mixed in petroleum fuel and questioned, “How much did it help to improve farmers’ financial condition? Were farmers not ‘ urjaadata’ then?” Plant head of Daurala Sugar Mill Sanjay Rastogi explained that the government was in the process of developing flexi fuel so that vehicles could have choice to use any of these, including ethanol. He said the government’s target was to mix 20 percent ethanol in petroleum fuel by the end of 2025 and it was a good move to decrease the load on the exchequer because the major part of fuel was imported. He said that sugar production was high in the country and such policies would help utilize produce of farmers in making bi-products like ethanol, so farmers would certainly get advantage out of it.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/gadkari-claim-about-ethanol-mere-rhetoric-say-farmers-101640200149457.html
23-12-2021||Delhi||Delhi’s AQI ‘severe’ for second day, NCR towns add PM2.5 load||Delhi’s pollution levels continued to be in the “severe” range for the second consecutive day on Wednesday, as calm winds led to the accumulation of pollutants in the region, senior scientists of the India Meteorological Department said. Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) recordings showed that on Wednesday, the overall Air Quality Index reading of Delhi was 407, in the “severe” zone. Delhi’s pollution level on Tuesday was also in the “severe” range, with an AQI reading of 402. IMD officials said that the air quality is likely to remain severe on Thursday as well, after which winds will start picking up and help disperse pollutants. “There will be a marginal improvement in winds on Thursday, but the pollution level will remain in the same range. There will be a slight improvement in air quality only from Friday,” a senior Met official said. Data from Indian Institute of Tropical Meteorology’s Decision Support System, an air quality forecasting system, showed that on Wednesday, the maximum share of Delhi’s PM2.5 came from neighbouring NCR towns such as Ghaziabad, Sonipat, Panipat and Faridabad. PM2.5 is fine, inhalable particulate matter with diameter of 2.5 microns. It is considered the dominant pollutant in the region.Pollution from Faridabad and Sonipat contributed to 15% of Delhi’s pollution on Wednesday, 10% of Delhi’s pollution share came from Panipat, 16% from Ghaziabad, and 14% from Bagpat. Other factors, which according to IITM scientists don’t usually contribute to Delhi pollution, contributed to 19-46% of Delhi’s pollution levels. Among local sources, vehicular pollution continued to be the biggest factor in the Capital’s deteriorating air quality. On Wednesday, its share in pollution levels was 13% and scientists forecast the share will increase to 16% by Thursday. Mahesh Palawat, vice-president (meteorology and climate change), Skymet Weather Services, said that the upcoming western disturbance that will impact most of north India, will help improve the city’s air quality from Friday. “There is a forecast of rain from November 26 that should help improve the air quality,” he said. A western disturbance refers to an area of “disturbed” or reduced air pressure, moving from the west to the east, carrying with it moisture associated with rainfall, snowfall and fog in northern India.On the directions of the Supreme Court, the Commission for Air Quality Management in National Capital Region and Adjoining Areas on November 16 imposed a list of restrictions on polluting activities, including a ban on construction and demolition activities in Delhi-NCR, scheduled operations for thermal power plants, allowing only those industrial units that have switched to piped natural gas (PNG) to operate, and a ban on the entry of trucks carrying non-essential items into Delhi. Over the last week, the commission has lifted these restrictions in a phased manner. On Monday, the final set of restrictions, the ban on construction activities in NCR and the ban on the entry of trucks into Delhi, were also lifted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhis-aqi-severe-for-second-day-ncr-towns-add-pm2-5-load-101640200148231.html
23-12-2021||Delhi||Drinking age reduced to 21 in Haryana, pubs and bars welcome move||Gurugram: The Haryana government on Wednesday reduced the drinking age in the state from 25 year to 21 years, with the state assembly passing an amendment to the Haryana Excise Act. According to the statement of objects and reasons stated in the amendment Bill, during the framing of excise policy for 2021-22 it was discussed that the age limit may be reduced from 25 years to 21 as many of other states have prescribed lower age limits. The Delhi government announced lowering the drinking age in the national Capital from 25 to 21 years.“Moreover, the socio-economic conditions of the day have changed drastically from the time when the provisions were incorporated in the Excise Act. People now are more educated and participating in new endeavours and also can take rational decisions when it comes to responsible drinking. Accordingly, The Haryana Excise (Amendment) Bill, 2021 has been passed to reduce the minimum age limit of 25 years as provided in Sections 27, 29, 30 and 62 of the Haryana Excise Act, 1914 to 21 years,” said the amendment Bill. V K Beniwal, deputy commissioner of excise and taxation , Gurugram (east), called it a “good move”. “This is a good move as Delhi has already reduced the age and it was impacting business in Gurugram. We were strictly imposing the rules pertaining to the drinking age, and have penalised several pubs and bars for serving to underage patrons. This move will benefit the licence holders and also the people in the age bracket as they can now drink legally,” he said..Pubs and bars in Gurugram also cheered the decision. Rahul Singh, trustee, National Restaurant Association of India (NRAI) , said they thank the Haryana government for the “significant change” to the legal drinking age that was prescribed “during the British Raj in 1914”. “This will reduce illegal consumption and also places the state at par with International norms as well as neighbouring states,” he said.Ashish Dev Kapoor, founder, Whisky Samba bar and grill, said it was a progressive move by the Haryana government. “If people are allowed to get married at 21, cast their vote, why can’t they allowed to drink legally. This will help in ensuring that people can drink in a transparent and responsible manner,” he said.Lalit Ahlawat, Director, Soi7 Pub and Brewery at DLF Cyber City, said 21 is the right age to be fixed for drinking. “Though all the pub and bars were following the rules and regulations, but this amendment will help the youngsters enjoy legally,” he said.Nearly 60% of the 28 states and eight Union territories in India allow the sale of liquor to those above 21 years old. With Delhi and Haryana both reducing the drinking age to 21 -- it stays 25 only in Punjab, Chandigarh and Dadra and Nagar Haveli.
23-12-2021||Lucknow||Kingpin of fake call centre racket targeting Lucknow doctors held||Lucknow The kingpin of a West Bengal-based fake call centre racket was arrested on Wednesday. The gang was involved in duping doctors on pretext of arranging individual and family tours to different countries at cheaper rates, said senior police officials. The accused identified as Vishal Pandey, a resident of Bardhman in West Bengal, was arrested after a city doctor lodged a fraud case against him at Mahanagar police station two weeks ago, they said. Sharing further details, Lucknow additional deputy commissioner of police (ADCP), North, Prachi Singh said that Pandey and his gang were involved in duping over 15 doctors from different parts of Uttar Pradesh and other states using the same modus operandi. The accused earlier worked as medical representative and had experience of calling and speaking to doctors. She said Pandey lost his medical job during the start of pandemic in 2020 and get into this fraud business after learning this calling fraud trick from some of his accomplices of Jamtara, Jharkhand. “Many similar calling fraud gangs have been unearthed from Jamtara in the past some years,” she said. The ADCP said that the accused started targeting doctors as he had the experience of talking to doctors and was well aware that they could easily lured by offering foreign tours on cheaper rates. “The accused has duped around ₹ 3 lakh from the city doctor and ₹ 8 lakh from a West Bengal doctor recently. He is further being interrogated to extract details about his other victims and identities of his other accomplices,” she added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/kingpin-of-fake-call-centre-racket-targeting-lucknow-doctors-held-101640200092784.html
23-12-2021||Noida||Agencies slap ₹3.5 lakh fine for alleged violation of norms in Kaushambi||The Uttar Pradesh Pollution Control Board (UPPCB) and the Ghaziabad municipal corporation have collectively levied fines to the tune of ₹3.5 lakh in at least seven cases of alleged violation of norms related to construction activities and demolition waste in Kaushambi. Officer bearers of the Kaushambi Apartments Residents’ Welfare Association (Karwa) said they will meet the district magistrate for intervention into the matter. On November 16, on the directions of the Supreme Court, the Commission for Air Quality Management banned construction and demolition activities across Delhi and the National Capital Region (NCR), after pollution levels spiked much above the permissible levels and the air quality hovered in the ‘very poor’ to ‘severe’ for days together after Diwali. Civic officials said that during inspections held in the last week of November, their teams found some people allegedly violating norms related to construction and demolition waste and levied a penalty of ₹50,000 in each case. “The teams found construction and demolition norms were being violated and decided to levy penalty. Similar inspections were carried out across the city due to rise in pollution and not just in Kaushambi,” said municipal commissioner M S Tanwar. “There were instances of construction and demolition norms violation, for which we levied penalty as per directions given by the National Green Tribunal. The recommendation of penalties was sent to the district administration and they issued notices to different buildings,” said Utsav Sharma, regional officer of UPPCB. According to members of the Karwa, they have received different notices and total of ₹3.5 lakh has been levied in seven instances of norm violation. “The agencies have levied penalty of ₹50,000 each and the total penalty is about ₹3.5 lakh. There was a ban on construction activities on the directions of the Supreme Court and we informed our high-rises here about the order accordingly on November 25. We asked the buildings to stop constructions and demolition waste was also removed. Some waste was in the process of being removed. Teams of UPPCB were also asked to sensitise residents about the construction ban order,” said V K Mittal, president of Karwa, the umbrella body of different apartments’ RWAs. “Teams of UPPCB came on November 26 and took photographs of the sites, where alleged violation of construction and demolition waste norms were taking place, while teams of the municipal corporation came a day later. Since Tuesday, we have started receiving notices about the penalty. We have prepared our representation in this regard and we will meet the district magistrate for an appeal into the matter,” Mittal added. Karwa has been at the forefront of the fight against the high air and noise pollution levels plaguing the locality and is also contesting several petitions in the NGT and the Supreme Court against various agencies for failing to take steps to control the pollution levels. 
23-12-2021||Lucknow||Anticipatory bail should be resorted to only in a special case: High court||PRAYAGRAJ: Rejecting the second anticipatory bail application of a person, who allegedly used forged BEd mark-sheet/degree to obtain employment, the Allahabad high court has observed, “Anticipatory bail being an extraordinary remedy, should be resorted to only in a special case”. Rejecting the anticipatory bail of one Hemant Kumar Saraswat, Justice Samit Gopal took serious note of the charges levelled against the applicant and observed, “By the act of the applicant of seeking appointment on the basis of a forged mark-sheet/degree, one deserving candidate has lost his seat and chance of appointment and it may be a lifelong loss for many reasons like crossing the bracket of prescribed age and many other factors”. An FIR was lodged against the applicant at Manth police station in Mathura district under Sections 420 (cheating) and other sections of Indian Penal Code (IPC), alleging that the applicant was a beneficiary of a forged mark-sheet, which he had allegedly obtained from Agra University, showing him to have qualified the BEd Examination in the academic session 2004-05. Declining the plea for anticipatory bail, the court observed, “The case prima facie indicates involvement of the applicant in the offence-in-question as he was the beneficiary by making use of the forged mark-sheet/degree. The applicant has not established any special circumstance. No reason is found to falsely implicate the present applicant”. The court also rejected the ground of parity raised by the applicant, saying, “In so far as, the orders of the other persons are concerned who have been granted anticipatory bail/interim anticipatory bail, the same are not binding on this court”. Referring to the rejection of the first anticipatory bail by the high court, the court in its order dated December 21 further said, “While rejecting the first anticipatory bail application, the court was of the opinion that during investigation, even at times, the custodial interrogation may be necessary to reach the roots of the crime, the same cannot be overlooked. Therefore, looking into the gravity of the offence, nature of offence and the legal position enumerated above, this court is of the view that the anticipatory bail application has no merit and is liable to be rejected”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/anticipatory-bail-should-be-resorted-to-only-in-a-special-case-high-court-101640200087074.html
23-12-2021||Other||Punjab FM lays foundation stone of car parking facility in Bathinda||Bathinda Punjab finance minister and Congress MLA from Bathinda Urban Manpreet Singh Badal laid the foundation stone of a seven-storey parking facility for cars on Wednesday. In 2016, too, the foundation stone was laid, again ahead of the assembly polls, but by former union minister and Bathinda MP Harsimrat Kaur Badal. The project, touted as her dream project, failed to move beyond status quo over the past five years.The main shopping zone of the city has no vehicular parking space, hence the traffic management system is highly unregulated. Spread over 1.4 acre in the heart of Bathinda city, the project has been designed to park 1,000 cars with elevators. “The project will meet the urban development demand of the city for the next three decades,” said Manpreet, after laying the stone near the Fire Brigade Chowk, adding that the municipal corporation has placed a work order through competitive bidding, and the facility is expected to be functional by 2023. “The building will have a 40-kw solar power generation system to make it self-sufficient,” he added.Ahead of the 2017 assembly polls, the Congress had also promised to push this project for ease of traffic management, but failed to deliver.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/punjab-fm-lays-foundation-stone-of-car-parking-facility-in-bathinda-101640200085398.html
23-12-2021||Lucknow||UPTET now on January 23, results on February 25||The Uttar Pradesh Teacher Eligibility Test (UPTET)-2021, which was cancelled on November 28 due to paper leak, will now be held on January 23, 2022, said a senior basic education department official. The result will be declared on February 25, he added.The examination would be conducted in two shifts: 10am to 12.30pm for primary level teachers and 2.30pm to 5pm for upper primary level teachers.UPTET is a state-level exam conducted once a year to enable candidates to gain eligibility to teach primary (Classes 1-5) and upper primary (Classes 6-8) in schools of the Uttar Pradesh government.Undersecretary Dharmendra Mishra, in a missive sent to secretary, examination regulatory authority (ERA), Anil Bhushan Chaturvedi, on Wednesday has conveyed this state government decision granting approval to a proposal sent by ERA in this regard on December 10.The missive, the copy of which is with HT, also informs ERA to ensure re-verification of pre- decided examination centres by the respective district level committees by December 22 and forward the list of the centres to National Informatics Centre (NIC) by December 27.The missive says the admit card of the candidates will be uploaded on the designated website on January 12, 2022 and the attendance sheet bearing scanned photographs of the candidates will be made available to the examination centre superintendent by January 17, 2022.The question paper and OMR sheet (answer sheet) will be sent to respective district headquarters to be kept under double lock on January 20, 2022. After the examination, OMR sheet in a sealed bundle will be received from all districts at the office of secretary, ERA on January 25, the order reads.ERA will release the answer key of the examination on January 27 and the aspirants will have the opportunity to register their online objections to it by February 1. The special committee will go through the objections on February 21 and publish the final answer keys on February 23.After evaluation of the answer sheet based on the amended answer keys, the result will then be declared on February 25.UPTET for the primary level was to be held at 2,554 centres across UP between 10am and 12.30pm followed by test for upper primary level from 2.30pm to 5pm at 1,754 centres on November 28. A total of 12,91,628 candidates were registered to appear in the test in the first shift in the state while 8,73,553 candidates were registered for in the second shift. However, the state government cancelled the examination after the recovery of question papers from more than 26 people arrested in five districts of the state hours before the exam.UPTET exam is conducted in two shifts for two papers: 1 and 2. UPTET Paper 1 is conducted for candidates who plan to become teachers of Classes 1-5. On the other hand, UPTET Paper 2 is for candidates who plan to become teachers of Classes 6-8.Candidates who wish to apply for both primary and upper primary schools need to appear in both papers. Both the UPTET papers are conducted on the same day in offline mode as pen-and-paper based tests.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/uptet-now-on-january-23-results-on-february-25-101640200036811.html
23-12-2021||Pune||One more arrested in recruitment scam, BJP alleges links with Mantralaya||PUNE: Another man was arrested by the Pune police in the series of cases that have revealed malpractices in the recruitment exams held by various departments of Maharashtra government. Leader of Opposition Devendra Fadnavis said during the winter session of Maharashtra Legislative Assembly that the malpractices in various recruitment exams have links with Mantralaya. The man was identified as Saurabh Tripathi, a resident of Lucknow, Uttar Pradesh, who was previously attached with GA Software company found to be the centre of the nexus. “We know for sure that links of recruitment scam are in Mantralaya. That is why we are insisting for CBI probe since the Maharashtra police may not be able to expose these links under pressure. If police expose the links, we will welcome it too,” said Fadnavis speaking on the sidelines of session. Tripathi was arrested in the fourth, and the latest, case registered at the Pune cyber police station for manipulation in the answer sheets and results of the teacher eligibility test (TET) held in 2018 and advertised in 2017. Two other people have been arrested in the case and remanded to police custody till December 27. Among two others, former commissioner of Maharashtra State Council Of Examination (MSCE) Sukhdev Dere, 61, and another ex-employee of GA software company identified as Ashwin Kumar, 41, a resident of Kalyan Nagar in Bengaluru. Tripathi is accused of helping GA Software company while being in office and as a consultant post-retirement in August 2018 and Kumar was the project manager in Maharashtra back then, according to the police submission in the local court in the matter. Tripathi was arrested in a case under Sections 406, 409, 420, 465, 467, 468, and 34 of Indian Penal Code along with Section 66(d) of Information Technology Act, and Sections 7 and 8 of Maharashtra Prevention of Malpractices at University, Board and other specified Examinations Act registered at cyber police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/one-more-arrested-in-recruitment-scam-bjp-alleges-links-with-mantralaya-101640200030796.html
23-12-2021||Noida||Noida: Homebuyers demand action after CAG audit report flags irregularities||Homebuyers in Noida are now demanding the state government to take appropriate action against the officials of the Noida authority and others concerned after the Comptroller and Auditor General’s (CAG) audit report on land acquisition found that there were ‘irregularities’ in the allotment of land for residential, industrial and commercial purposes in Noida from 2005 onwards, that cost the state exchequer a loss of ₹55,000. “We have sent a letter to UP chief minister Yogi Adityanath and CEO of the Noida authority Ritu Maheshwari, among other top officials, demanding a follow up action...If no action is taken, then what is the need of the CAG audit? The CAG audit has not brought any positive results for the homebuyers, who have been suffering for past one decade. We demand that action be taken against the officials involved and also the issues plaguing investors and homebuyers be resolved,” said Abhishek Kumar, president of Noida Extension Flat Owners’ Welfare Association.According to residents, there are at least 50,000 homebuyers, who are unable to execute the registry of their flats even after clearing the payment due to the CAG audit.“The UP government got the CAG audit done to solve the long standing issues. Now that the CAG audit is done, the state government and the Noida authority should work together to solve the issues being faced by the homebuyers,” said Manish Kumar, vice-president of the association.CEO Maheshwari said, “The state government will look into the issues flagged by the CAG in its audit report and then take an appropriate decision. We will follow the directions issued to us in this regard.” State industry minister Satish Mahana said, “The UP government will study the CAG report and issue directions in this regard at the earliest.”
23-12-2021||Other||Varanasi: Ahead of polls, cops told to keep eye on criminals||VARANASI Commissioner of police (CP) A Satish Ganesh on Wednesday issued several instructions to police officials regarding preparations for the upcoming assembly elections and to conduct it in fair and peaceful manner. Chairing a meeting of station house officers (SHOs), assistant commissioners of police (ACPs) and other senior officers, Ganesh said that several police station in-charges were given stern warnings for laxity in work. “Instructions have been given to them to ensure that license holders submit their firearms at the earliest. Besides, they have been asked to take strict preventive action against anti-social elements. The suppliers of illegal liquor and illegal weapons should be identified and arrested,” he said. Thorough checking should also be done by visiting the houses of history sheeters, he said while instructing the cops.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/varanasi-ahead-of-polls-cops-told-to-keep-eye-on-criminals-101640200025645.html
23-12-2021||Lucknow||Yogi proposes drone making unit in UP||Lucknow: Chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Wednesday said a work plan to set up drone manufacturing unit in the state should be prepared. He said certificate and diploma courses should be started for training in drone technology, with the help of IIT Kanpur and rules for using drone for law and order purposes should be worked out. Yogi gave directions in this regard while carrying out a review of different departments at a high level meeting here. He said ‘Gram Divas’ (village day) and ‘Nagar Divas’ (city day) should be celebrated in villages and towns on the pattern of Uttar Pradesh Divas that the state government would celebrate on January 24, 2022. He said a call should be given to the people to adopt Anganwadi Centres on the pattern of Operation Kayakalp. Yogi said planned efforts would have to be made for setting up and development of new cities, keeping in view needs of the future. Light house project may be useful to give a push to housing schemes. He said a team of experts of civil engineering departments should be constituted for a thorough study of the project. The team should have experts from AKTU, Lucknow, Madan Mohan Malviya University of Technology, Gorakhpur, HBTU, Kanpur and two other institutes of the state. He said development works being carried out in different in cities selected under smart city mission should be reviewed. Yogi also said updating curriculum of vocational education institutions was necessary keeping in view the changed circumstances.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/yogi-proposes-drone-making-unit-in-up-101640199978023.html
23-12-2021||Noida||5 arrested for operating illegal guns factory in Muradnagar||The Ghaziabad police on Wednesday arrested five people for allegedly operating an illegal arms factory in Muradnagar and manufacturing country-made weapons, which police suspect they wanted to supply during the upcoming assembly elections in the state. The suspects have been identified as Aman Rangad, Noor Hasan Saifi, Salman Qureshi, Suhail Malik and Yusuf Rangad, said police. Police said the house out of which the factory was operating belonged to one Zahiruddin Razi, whose accomplices were nabbed in connection with a similar operation of a factory at a different location in Muradnagar on September 25, while he fled and later obtained bail. Police said after his illegal arms factory was busted in September, Razi operated another factory in the same house in Muradnagar for some days and later shifted base. “The suspects told us that Razi later rented the house to them for ₹20,000 per month. The five suspects were nabbed while preparing illegal arms. They told us that the price for country-made firearm was between ₹5,000 and ₹10,000 while illegal country-made pistols were priced at ₹35,000-40,000. We suspect that the gang was operating this factory for supplying illegal firearms during the upcoming elections,” said Iraj Raja, superintendent of police (rural). The suspects also told police that apart from manufacturing illegal arms, they also procured cartridges of .315 and .12 calibre from two people--Rahees Lambu and Sonu Kumar, residents of Kithor in Meerut. “We are trying to trace the two suspects, along with several others, who were involved in operating the arms factory. Several teams are trying to trace them and are also on the lookout for people who procured arms from the gang,” said the officer. Police said they recovered 16 different calibre weapons, five magazines for pistols, different equipment used for preparing arms along with raw material from the suspects.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/5-arrested-for-operating-illegal-guns-factory-in-muradnagar-101640199975410.html
23-12-2021||Delhi||Delhi pollution body hires 50 environmental engineers, to train them via 3-week module||The short-staffed Delhi Pollution Control Committee (DPCC) hired 50 environmental engineers last month to fill up a large chunk of its vacant posts. About 10% of its 343 sanctioned posts are vacant.Each engineer will undergo a three-week training module developed by IIT Delhi on over 50 topics, including how to source apportionment data to combat air pollution, atmospheric chemistry and air pollution modelling, toxic and hazardous pollutants and their sources, climate change and how to manage the different kind of wastes being generated in Delhi. Officials of DPCC said this training module, which HT has had a look at, will be the guiding tool for all future recruitments for technical positions, with particular focus on air pollution, for which 20 one-hour sessions will be held. The other sessions will focus on electric waste, septic tanks, reviving water bodies, water quality management, plastic waste management and noise pollution, among other key areas. “Those hired will be trained regarding the existing problems, and the technological and technical innovations that can be utilised for Delhi. For instance, we will focus on emission inventories for air pollution sources, air pollution source apportionment through measuring and modelling, atmospheric dispersion of pollutants and air quality forecasting,” said a senior DPCC official, on condition of anonymity.Of the DPCC’s 343 posts, nearly 50% are technical posts. The official said the remaining staff, which include those in clerical positions,is currently handling a majority of the work. “We needed technical expertise, but before deploying the new employees in different key areas, we will provide them with detailed knowledge, which will help them plan for next winter too,” said the official, adding the new employees will be deployed in the green war room, and be required to manage and analyse data from the web portal created to oversee construction and demolition sites, analyse data from the Green Delhi app, while also focusing on innovations and studies. Professor Sagnik Dey, associate professor at the Centre for Atmospheric Sciences at IIT-Delhi, said while the current module includes over 50 topics, a few more are currently being added, based on the DPCC’s request. “These are not all air-pollution related, but a good chunk is centred on pollution. They are also very technical and will be explaining technologies and studies that can be used to solve the air pollution problem,” said Dey, who has designed the training module along with fellow IIT professors Dilip Ganguly and RK Kunchala. “We are still deciding whether to do it online or in-person. The entire module will take around three weeks,” he said.The Delhi government also inducted 28 “green fellows” last month to fill vacant seats in the environment and forest departments. The fellows -- three specialists, 10 fellows and 15 associate fellows – have joined the government departments for a period of four years as part of a Green Youth Fellowship under the Green Delhi mission.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-pollution-body-hires-50-environmental-engineers-to-train-them-via-3-week-module-101640199974096.html
23-12-2021||Noida||CM Yogi Adityanath to attend ‘Jan Vishwas Yatra’ in Ghaziabad||Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath will attend the ‘Jan Vishwas Yatra’--a roadshow launched by the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) on Sunday to extend its outreach among the public in the run up to the state assembly polls scheduled next year-- which will reach Ghaziabad on December 25, confirmed office bearers of the BJP’s state unit. The ‘Jan Vishwas Yatra’ was launched at six different places across the state--Bijnor, Mathura, Jhansi, Ghazipur, Ambedkar Nagar and Ballia--on December 19. “The yatra is being held to showcase the achievements of the government during past four-and-a-half years...the progress, along with the development that BJP government has made, has helped us win the confidence and trust of the people. As part of the yatra, our leaders are going to interacting with locals. Chief minister Yogi Adityanath will attend the yatra in Ghaziabad on December 25 while other leaders will hold public rallies,” said Chandra Mohan, spokesperson and secretary of the BJP’s state unit. The Ghaziabad unit of the BJP also confirmed the arrival of the chief minister on Christmas. “The CM will attend the yatra, which will reach Ghaziabad on December 25... The rally will start from Kalka Garhi Chowk to Thakurdwara, over a distance of about three kilometres. It is expected that the rally will take about three hours, as there will be a huge number of people who will want to attend the yatra,” said Sanjeev Sharma, city unit president of BJP (Ghaziabad). The rally will move along the Ambedkar Road, Chaudhary Morh, Ghanta Ghar and finally to Thakurdwara, which is on GT Road. The CM kickstarted the party’s yatra from Mathura on December 19. “On December 25, other BJP leaders will hold rallies in Muradnagar, Loni and Sahibabad while the CM will attend the yatra in Ghaziabad,” said Ashwini Sharma, a spokesperson of the BJP’s city unit.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/cm-yogi-adityanath-to-attend-jan-vishwas-yatra-in-ghaziabad-101640199972105.html
23-12-2021||Other||Border Ultra Hell Race: Prayagraj woman officer Major Farah Deeba runs 100km in 15 hours||PRAYAGRAJ: Major Farah Deeba, a 40-year-old ace long-distance runner from the city and administrative officer of 6 UP Girls’ Battalion of National Cadet Corps (NCC), has successfully completed the ‘Border Ultra Hell Race’ held from Jaisalmer to Longewala in Rajasthan on December 18. She ran continuously for 15 hours covering a distance of 100 km with a provisional timing of 15:01:05 hrs. After returning to Prayagraj on Wednesday, Maj Deeba shared her experience. “I started the run from Jaisalmer on December 18 and reached the destination on December 19, completing the race that tests a runner’s stamina and commitment. I completed the first 50km in 6:21:07 hours,” she said. Maj Deeba, a mother of two sons, said that during the run she had two vomiting and dehydration, but she toughed up and fought to complete the race which is not meant for the weak-willed. “I am so proud to have run at the border on the occasion of 75 years of independence (Azadi Ka Amrit Mahotsav). The race was really a Hell as the name suggests. The challenges included lack of an active medical team. Hydration points at only 10 km gaps, plus biting desert dry heat during the day and icing cold at the night were also challenging. There were no human beings visible on road except the runners. The run started from the Golden City of Jaisalmer and ended at the battlefield of Longewala, passing via Ramgarh and some ruined, evacuated villages,” she said. According to Deeba, the route has almost all the likes of any famous 100 milers and 100kms. The participants are exposed to the elements of nature, face to face while fighting their own demons mentally as is the case with any Ultra Run. This race was devoted to the martyrs and the brave soldiers who confronted the enemy the entire night. Longewala is a border town in the Thar Desert in the western part of Jaisalmer district. It is very close to the border with Pakistan and is most notable as the location of the Battle of Longewala during the Indo-Pakistan War of 1971 (December 4-7). Maj Deeba said, “Frankly speaking, I covered 110 km approximately as I missed the marking at 80 km. A fellow runner was kind enough to remind me to retreat. That was the worst feel. As my mobile phone and watch too did not support me, and my equipment failed but my mind remained positive because of which I completed the run well before the stipulated timing of 16 hours.” The ace runner had in August 2021 completed the stadium run held in Bengaluru. In that run, Maj Deeba had ran continuously for 12 hours covering a distance of 82.91 km at an average speed of 8.21 km/hr. She had also completed the run held in March 2021 in Chandigarh stadium wherein she covered 70.62 km in 12 hours. Major Deeba has been a regular participant in several major long-distance runs of the country, including Indira Marathon which is held in November in Sangam city. She is also one of the founding members of Prayagraj Pacers, a group of female fitness enthusiasts from the city who often undertake long-distance runs along with routine yoga, cycling and exercises.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/border-ultra-hell-race-prayagraj-woman-officer-major-farah-deeba-runs-100km-in-15-hours-101640199970822.html
23-12-2021||Noida||Ghaziabad civic body declares 94 wards eligible for “water plus” certification||The Ghaziabad municipal corporation has declared 94 of its 100 residential wards eligible for the “water plus” certification and has invited public objections/suggestion in the next 15 days. The “water plus” certificate is awarded to cities that have met all the ODF Double Plus (ODF++) standards, a certification that Ghaziabad received in March this year. The “water plus” protocol aims to provide a guideline to cities and towns to ensure no untreated wastewater is released into the environment, thereby enabling sustainability of the sanitation value chain. According to the protocols of the “water plus” under the Swachh Bharat Mission, a city/ward/circle/zone can be declared as water plus provided all wastewater released from households, commercial establishments, drains, nullahs, etc. is treated to a satisfactory level (as per norms set by the Central Pollution Control Board), before releasing the treated wastewater to the environment. Further, there should be adequate sewage treatment facilities with the capacity to treat sufficient quantities of wastewater. The infrastructure should be maintained properly and cost recovery is ensured through reuse / recycling of treated wastewater to ensure sustainability. “We are applying for ‘water plus’ category. As part of the process, the initial declaration is done by the city and later it is to be verified by the state and then the Centre. We received the ODF++ certification in March this year, when we learnt that we can apply for the ‘water plus’ certification, which is a step higher than ODF++, only after six months. We are complying with 80% of the parameters and we feel that we are ‘water plus’ now,” said municipal commissioner M S Tanwar. “Once we get the certification, we will be able to get rank better in Swachh Survekshan. So far, we have declared only 94 wards as ‘water plus’, and not the six wards of Indirapuram as the locality is yet to be handed over to the corporation,” he added. Environmentalists said the city is still far from actually getting a “water plus” certification. “In many localities, the drainage system is absent and the entire drainage gets mixed with sewage and vice versa. There are several drains, which still flow untreated into Hindon river. This not only exposes the preparedness of the agencies but also has adverse impact on the environment and biodiversity,” said Akash Vashishtha, a city-based environmentalist and a lawyer. The councillors in the municipal corporation also raised questions over the city’s declaration of 94 wards being “water plus”. “There are many illegal residential colonies on the floodplains of Hindon river, whose sewage and drainage goes directly into the river near Chijarsi and Kanawani villages. Further, the high court in a petition directed the corporation to construct a drain in Sai Upvan as it goes untreated into the river. The drain has not been constructed till date,” said Rajendra Tyagi, a councillor from Raj Nagar. “Further, the functionality of the sewage treatment plants needs to be checked before the city goes ahead with its plan of applying for the “water plus” certification. Civic officials could not provide the figures of sewage, drainage and treated water in the city. However, the officials of the water works department said they have initiated the process for bio-remediation of untreated drains. “The pilot projects of bioremediation have been initiated for the drains at Arthala, Pratap Vihar and Brij Vihar to ensure no untreated water goes into the river,” said an officer from the water works department. Under many conditions for “water plus” certification, a city has to ensure 100% operations and maintenance costs of sewer networks/STPs etc are being recovered; a Minimum of 25% wastewater is being reused after treatment at city level for purposes such as horticulture, agriculture, industrial use, cleaning roads etc; designed capacity of STP is sufficient to treat 500 litres per day per household (or 100 liters per person) through a decentralized or centralized treatment plant for the number of households connected to a sewer, etc. 
23-12-2021||Lucknow||2022 Uttar Pradesh assembly elections: Major political parties vying to win support of women||A game of political one-upmanship is being witnessed among the major political parties ever since Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra promised 40% party tickets to women candidates and made some populist announcements for them ahead of the 2022 Uttar Pradesh assembly elections.After making the populist announcements, the Congress has now begun a direct interaction with women, bringing women’s issues into political focus. Other major political parties too are now moving forward with programmes or announcements focusing on women.Priyanka Gandhi Vadra gave a bit of political twist to the Bollywood film Deewar’s iconic dialogue “mere paas maa hai” on Wednesday to make her point that the Congress, she hoped, would get the support of the women in 2022 polls.“Mere pass behenein hain….behenein rajniti main badlav laayengi (I have sisters…. Sisters will bring about a change in politics),” Priyanka Gandhi Vadra said in a tweet in Hindi on Wednesday with the #Ladki_hoon_lad_sakti_hoon. (I am a girl, I can fight). Priyanka made the observation in response to a question about the Congress that was not left with any strong base in the politics of caste and community.A video clip of her reply to newspersons quoting the “mere paas maa hai” dialogue has been posted along with the tweet.Priyanka Gandhi Vadra had on Sunday launched a direct dialogue with women at the Women’s Town Hall titled Shakti Samvad in Rae Bareli. She referred to the PM’s Tuesday meeting at Prayagraj, saying, “We are half of the population and the political parties are not taking the women seriously… the Congress’s initiative of empowering the women has awakened the political parties now. Asha bahu’s honorarium has been raised and Prime Minister Narendra Modi is going to hold an all-women meeting.”Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday addressed women beneficiaries of various government schemes at a programme in Prayagraj. He said the daughters of Uttar Pradesh would not let the parties that ran the previous governments come to power in the state. Adding to her Sunday’s observations, Priyanka Gandhi Vadra in a twitter post on Tuesday said, “UP’s women may see. You stretched and Prime Minister @narendramodi has bowed before you. But this is only the beginning. There is going to be a storm of women power. Women’s unity will lead to revolution.”The Samajwadi Party (SP) and the Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP), too, are not lagging behind in making claims about the work done by them to empower women. SP chief Akhilesh Yadav has referred to the work his government did for women in a post on social media on Tuesday.“The Samajwadi Party government worked for girls and women and for their empowerment in a true manner by distributing laptops, ‘Kanya Vidya Dhan’, launching 1090 women helpline and providing ambulance service for them. Problems, scarcity and their humiliation have put women against the BJP,” Akhilesh Yadav said in a tweet on Tuesday.The SP may make some announcements in its poll manifesto in the coming weeks. The SP chief, viewing the sensitivity of women issues, recently distanced himself from party MPs’ observations with regard to the Prohibition of Child Marriage (Amendment) Bill, 2021 that Union minister for women and child development Smriti Irani tabled in Lok Sabha on Tuesday. The amended bill proposes to increase the minimum age of marriage of women from 18 to 21 years. The bill was later referred by the lower house to a parliamentary standing committee for further scrutiny.The BSP has said it is following in the footsteps of Baba Saheb Bhimrao Ambedkar to empower women and has demanded reservation for them.“Half of the population is women. But they are still deprived of their rights though respected Baba Saheb Dr Bhimrao Ambedkar has contributed a lot to empower them by giving them legal rights. Now the BSP is following in his footsteps…. The Congress and the BJP have almost the same opinion about women empowerment and they believe only in show off. The BSP government worked a lot for social, economic and educational self-reliance of women and the parties opposed to the BSP are now encashing the same…Also, the BJP and the Congress are not serious about making women strong and self-reliant. This is evident from the issue of 33% reservation for women that is pending in the Lok Sabha and legislative assemblies for years. The BSP demands reservation for women,” said BSP chief Mayawati in a series of tweets on Wednesday.The Election Commission’s statistics for the 2017 assembly elections indicates that UP had a total of 14,16,63,646 voters that year. Out of them, 77,042,607 were males, 64,613,747 females and 7292 other category voters. Out of this, 8,67,55,499 votes were polled. Those who turned up for voting included 4,55,70,067 male voters, 40906123 female voters and 277 other category voters. In all, 2,79,032 postal votes were also cast in the 2017 polls.On the importance of women in the elections, AK Singh former director, Giri Institute of Development Studies, Lucknow, said: “Women constitute 50% of the voters and they vote in large numbers. Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra adopted a strategy to focus on them. The BJP appears wary because SP chief Akhilesh Yadav is getting a good response. The fight is becoming close and every vote is going to count.”
23-12-2021||Delhi||Delhi’s civic body to upgrade schools under NEP; redevelop Sarojini Nagar market||The New Delhi Municipal Council will upgrade all its schools according to the National Education Policy Framework for the holistic development of students. The council has also decided to upgrade the infrastructure of the Sarojini Nagar market, for which it will hold consultations with traders and other stakeholders, council members said on Wednesday after the monthly council meeting. Satish Upadhyay, the vice-chairperson of the council, said that three committees have been formed to finalise the modalities about school upgradation, market redevelopment and women empowerment-related issues. Kuljeet Chahal, member of council who chairs education upgradation committee said that there are 45 schools, 34 Atal Adarsh Schools and 11 Navyug Schools under NDMC which will be upgraded to ‘New India schools’. “We have visited several schools and a report has been prepared for knowledge upgradation of teachers, infrastructure additions and improvement of amenities being provided to students. A series of changes will be incorporated in all our schools,” he added. Chahal said that NDMC will sign MOUs with key institutions including Lalit Kala Academy, Sangeet Kala Academy, National Gallery of Modern Art among other institutes for adding new skills and training for the student community. “The building infrastructure needs to be revamped and a study report will be published in this sector soon. Four thousand tablets will be provided to the students which has been provided by council. The furniture upgradation has been passed by council on Wednesday,” he added. He also said that a separate civil and electrical division will be carved out to exclusively cater to schools under the jurisdiction of the council. Upadhyay said that the council is also planning to set up a separate residential school for the wards of armed forces personnel who have laid down their lives for the country. “The idea is in the nascent stage and a detailed plan will be presented before the council for a school that caters to such children and takes care of all their needs free of cost,” he added. Girish Sachdeva, council member who heads the committee on market redevelopment, said that the council will redevelop Sarojini Nagar market after wider consultations with all stakeholders. “Everyone in Delhi has memories associated with this market. The ownership of central market in Sarojini Nagar is private while the surrounding smaller markets have been rented out by NDMC. Common amenities such as parks, parking lots and walking areas will be upgraded. We will hold wider consultations with all the market associations to make an integrated plan. We have also held meetings with NBCC regarding the relocation of ring road market and Netaji Nagar market. The sites of relocation have not been finalised yet,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhis-civic-body-to-upgrade-schools-under-nep-redevelop-sarojini-nagar-market-101640199913551.html
23-12-2021||Noida||Rating system for housing societies in Greater Noida West||The Greater Noida authority has decided to rank all housing societies on the basis of facilities and the quality of maintenance work done by the developers in the campus for the convenience of homebuyers, who can check the ranking of a society and take a well-informed decision before buying a house. CEO of Greater Noida authority Narendra Bhooshan came up with the idea of ranking housing complexes after realising that residents in newly constructed housing complexes are suffering due to lack of maintenance of basic facilities, such as water supply, sanitation, roads, parking, and other such services.“We have directed the builders department to formulate the detailed guidelines to be followed to rank the housing complexes. Once the rank is awarded to a complex, it will help the buyers and inspire the developers to ensure better facilities,” said Bhooshan. There are at least 200 housing complexes in Greater Noida west spread on around 4,000 hectare and the developers have a responsibility to look after the maintenance of the housing complex. However, apartment owners in many societies complain of pathetic services. “When a rank will be awarded, the developer will feel that poor rank will impact his sales and affect the revenue of the company. This may bring a change in the attitude of a developer, who will then ensure better maintenance, which in turn will apartment owners,” said Bhooshan.The common dispute between homebuyers and developers is that the newly built housing complexes lack clean drinking water supply, the level of cleanliness is not up to the mark and the developer’s staff do not behave properly with the apartment owners. Homebuyers alleged that the developers charge a hefty amount as maintenance fee but are reluctant to provide the required facilities.“The developers are not willing to provide basic services in most of the newly built complexes. As a result, the apartment owners face problems and have to resort to the protest. If the authority’s new idea works well, it will benefit apartment owners, who are otherwise at the mercy of developers,” said Vivek Raman, president of Greater Noida West Entrepreneur association. Developers too welcomed the move of the Greater Noida authority. “It will be a positive trend and may help in setting a benchmark in the field of maintenance of housing complexes after delivering the flat to consumer,” said Prateek Kumar Tiwari, president of Western UP of Confederation of Real Estate Developers Association of India.
23-12-2021||Noida||Doctor, his wife found dead at their home in Greater Noida||A doctor and his wife were found dead at their home in Greater Noida by their son on Tuesday night, said police on Wednesday. Police found a suicide note at their home, which mentioned about a dispute regarding their property in Delhi. A few people have also been named in the note, said police. “The couple was living in Sector Zeta of Greater Noida since August this year. Prior to this, they lived in Delhi. According to the suicide note, the couple was distressed over a property dispute,” said deputy commissioner of police (central Noida) Harish Chander. Avadhesh Pratap Singh, in-charge of Surajpur police station, said the couple’s 32-year-old son returned from Shimla on Tuesday night. “Around 9.45pm, when he reached Gaur City Chowk in Greater Noida West, he called his parents but no one picked the call. When he came home, he found his parents’ bodies in their bedroom,” said Singh. “During investigation, police found that the couple had sold their house in Delhi to some people...Around six people were harassing the couple over the property dispute, due to which they were stressed,” said Singh. An FIR under section 306 (abetment to suicide) of the IPC has been filed against five known and one unknown person, all of whom are residents of Delhi. 
23-12-2021||Delhi||Airport Express Line case: DMRC asked to give all bank account details||The Delhi high court on Wednesday directed Delhi Metro Rail Corporation (DMRC) to give details of all its bank accounts in connection with a plea by Delhi Airport Metro Express Private Limited (DAMEPL), a subsidiary of Reliance Infrastructure Limited, seeking execution of an arbitral award of ₹4,600 crore.“The DMRC is directed to furnish the details of bank accounts... in Delhi or outside Delhi. It will also be mentioned in the affidavit, how much amount is lying in a particular account,” the court ordered.The amount is the compensation awarded to DAMEPL over an agreement terminated in October 2012 on account of DMRC failing to resolve defects in the structure supporting the Airport Metro Express Line. The DMRC had earlier offered to accept DAMEPL’s liabilities to the extent of the award.Noting that the DMRC has ₹1,642.69 crore available in its bank accounts, Justice Suresh Kait, however, said that if the DAMEPL does not want to accept the former’s offer of taking over its debts, the court can’t force it to do so.“(DAMEPL says) if it has money in hand, in an escrow account, at least it can bargain with banks for restructuring etc. Suppose it passes on total liability to you, to pay to the lenders, it will lose the bargaining power... If your (DMRC’s) offer is accepted, no issues…But when it is not accepting that, this court can’t force it that you (DAMEPL) accept in this fashion,” the judge said.The judge observed that though the attachment of the DMRC’s properties is not permitted, there is no such embargo with respect to its bank accounts.The order comes after DAMEPL refused to accept DMRC’s offer to directly negotiate with the banks and repay the arbitral award money.Appearing for DAMEPL, advocate Prateek Seksaria, informed that its lenders have rejected the DMRC’s proposal of taking care of its liabilities and contended that no special treatment can be given to the government in the present execution proceedings.He argued that the government should “set an example” by paying the award instead, adding that even after the DMRC deposited ₹1,000 crore in the escrow account, over ₹6,000 crore was still due. He also submitted that DAMEPL is entitled to the amount awarded in the arbitration proceedings as well as the benefit of “any surplus” which may be utilised to restart its businesses.He also relied on the DMRC’s affidavit to state that the corporation has nearly ₹5,800 crore in its bank accounts as on December 17 -- ₹1,642 crore earnings; ₹2,400 crore project allocation fund; and ₹1,700 crore deposit fund.He sought that at least the admitted earnings of the DMRC should straightaway be appropriated towards execution of the award.However, this was opposed by Solicitor General (SG) Tushar Mehta, appearing for the DMRC, who submitted that they have no informationwith respect to the banks rejecting the proposal, and reiterated that taking over DAMEPL’s debts to the extent of the award and negotiating with the lenders will be in public interest.“The government says we are in negotiations with the bank. Reliance, the award holder… they come and say that banks are interested in we (DAMEPL) getting the money and they have rejected the government’s proposal. If this is so, this is very serious… Something needs to be examined by the banking division also,” Mehta stated.Senior advocate Parag Tripathi, also appearing for DMRC, urged the court to grant it an opportunity to work out a solution and submitted that nobody will gain if the bank accounts are attached and Metro services are stopped.“If Metro is stopped tomorrow, there will be a huge issue… I will work it out because as an instrumentality of the state, when I sit with the banks, the ability to get a rollover of the amount as a loan from the bank will be much greater,” Tripathi said.The court was hearing DAMEPL’s execution plea for the arbitral award won against the corporation.The consortium of Reliance Energy Limited (renamed as Reliance Infrastructure Limited) and M/s Construcciones y Auxiliar de Ferrocarriles, SA, terminated the concession agreement in October 2012 citing failure of DMRC to correct defects in the structure supporting the Airport Metro Express Line. DMRC invoked the arbitration clause of its contract with the consortium.The concession agreement between the two was signed on August 25, 2008. Under the agreement, DMRC was to carry out the civil works, except at the depot, and the remaining work were to be executed by DAMEPL, a joint venture of Reliance Infra (95%) and a Spanish construction company M/s Construcciones Y Auxiliar De Ferrocarriles (5%).In 2017, the arbitral tribunal awarded damages to Reliance Infra, and it was upheld by a single-judge bench of the Delhi high court in 2018. A division bench of the same court set aside the award in 2019 after which Reliance Infra approached the top court.In September this year, the apex court set aside the division bench’s order January 15, 2019, and upheld the arbitral award in favour of DMRC, saying that there was a disturbing tendency of courts setting aside arbitral awards.In November, the Supreme Court also dismissed DMRC’s plea seeking a review of its judgment.On the last date, the DMRC had told the court that it would deposit ₹1,000 crore in favour of DAMEPL while suggesting taking over its debt to the extent of the award money.DMRC had stated that since the corporation was facing a “financial crunch”, undertaking a “sudden liability” would impact public interest and authorities were, therefore, working out a solution. It had also claimed that the amount liable to be paid was approximately ₹5,000 crore which was lesser than DAMEPL’s claim.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/airport-express-line-case-dmrc-asked-to-give-all-bank-account-details-101640199852629.html
23-12-2021||Delhi||Cold wave eases in Delhi, light rain expected after Christmas||The temperatures in Delhi rose slightly on Wednesday, breaking the cold wave streak that the city has been experiencing for the past three days. Scientists at the India Meteorological Department (IMD) have predicted a further rise in the temperatures in the next two days, and forecast light rain in Delhi-NCR from December 25. IMD recordings showed that on Wednesday, the maximum temperature at the Safdarjung weather station, which provides representative data for the city, was 23.8 degrees Celsius—two degrees above the season’s normal. The minimum temperature rose to 4.4 degrees Celsius, but it was still three degrees below what is considered normal for this time of the year. At Palam, the minimum temperature was 7.6 degrees Celsius and at Lodi Road the night temperature was 4.2 degrees Celsius. On Tuesday, Delhi recorded a minimum of 4 degrees Celsius (°C) – four notches below normal. Mercury dipped even further at Ayanagar and Lodhi Road weather stations, dropping down to 3.8°C and 3.7°C, respectively. Till Tuesday, Delhi and neighbouring NCR cities was recording a cold wave, with the minimum temperatures witnessing a deviation of over 4.5 degrees Celsius from normal. The weather department declares a cold day if the maximum temperature is 4.5 degrees below normal. It announces a cold wave if the day’s low is either 4.5 degrees below normal, or below 4°C. On Monday, Delhi recorded the season’s lowest temperature of 3.2 degrees Celsius. Met officials said that this spike in temperatures on Wednesday was the impact of a passing western disturbance. Over the next few days, successive active western disturbances may cause cold wave conditions to abate across northern India, and the minimum temperatures are expected to rise to around 7-8 degrees Celsius. “Minimum temperatures saw a rising trend over Delhi, Punjab, Haryana, Rajasthan, Uttar Pradesh and Madhya Pradesh, signalling the abatement of cold wave conditions over these areas. Minimum temperatures are expected to rise further during the next 24 hours,” said RK Jenamani, a scientist at IMD. He said, “The western disturbances from December 24 onwards will lead to cloudy skies over Delhi. Rain is also forecast from December 26- 27 in Delhi.” Weather forecasters have, however, said this respite from cold will only be temporary and mercury levels will start falling again from December 29. “On Wednesday, even though the temperatures rose slightly in Delhi, the minimum temperature was still lower than what was recorded in Shimla (5.4 degrees Celsius). The reason could be clear skies over Delhi and partly cloudy skies over Shimla. Energy released by the earth during the night gets trapped between the clouds and the earth,” explained Mahesh Palawat, vice-president (meteorology and climate change), Skymet Weather Services. He said, “Once the western disturbances have passed the region, winds blowing over Delhi will change its direction back to northwesterly. But, around the New Year the temperatures will fall further.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/cold-wave-eases-in-delhi-light-rain-expected-after-christmas-101640199851318.html
23-12-2021||Delhi||South, Central districts adding most Covid-19 cases in Delhi||Four districts -- New Delhi, South East, South and South West -- reported nearly 70% of the fresh Covid-19 cases in Delhi in the two weeks ending December 19, according to a Delhi government analysis of district-wise distribution of cases.According to the data, the four districts accounted for 598 of the 910 cases reported in the last two weeks. Experts said the higher case load in these districts could be due to poorer prior exposure to the virus (as compared with the other districts) during the last two waves and of people from these areas possibly taking more international and inter-state trips.Districts such as North-east, East and Shahdara continue to report lower or declining cases, according to the analysis.Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal has called a high-level meeting on Thursday morning to review the city’s preparedness to tackle any outbreak of the highly transmissible Omicron variant of Sars-Cov-2, and is likely to discuss issues related to hospital beds, oxygen availability, medicine stocks and home isolation facilities. The Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) on Wednesday directed police and district authorities to carry out raids to ensure restrictions on public gatherings, including on celebrations for Christmas and the New Year.Since December 1, active Covid cases in the Capital have more than doubled to 624. Delhi has reported 57 Omicron cases so far.The prevailing Covid situation of all districts was reviewed in a health department meeting on Tuesday where senior officials from the health department asked the districts to be ready to implement the Covid management plan in place during the fourth wave. The districts have also been asked to closely monitor the situation and increase testing, tracing and vaccination coverage.A study of the district-wise daily Covid case distribution from December 6 to 19, accessed by HT, shows that Covid caseloads increased by 93% in south-east district (from 43 to 83), 84.8% (33 to 61) in south-west, 81.7% (60 to 109) in south district and by 15.5% (91 to 112) in New Delhi. At 112, New Delhi has the most active cases (as of December 19) among all districts.In the same period, cases decreased in districts like East, Shahdara and North-east, which have higher population densities and more slums as well as unauthorised colonies.The number of new cases fell 65.7% -- from 35 to 12 -- in the East district during the two weeks. New cases also fell 50% each in North-east (down from 4 to 2) and Shahdara (20 to 10) districts.Some other districts have also reported an increase in cases but they have far less number of active cases as compared to the four districts seen as “areas of concern”.Cases increased from 21 to 34 in North district (61.9% rise); from 22 to 33 in North-west (50% hike); and from 28 to 41 in West district (46.4% increase). The total number of cases across all the districts increased 32.7% in the two-week period.In the second wave too, these districts were reporting more Covid cases and a higher number of containment zones as compared to the three with lower case trajectories at present.Dr Sanjay Rai, professor, community medicine department at All India Institute of Medical Sciences, said the districts reporting fewer Covid cases currently, reported a high infection rate during the first wave. “The first containment zone in Delhi was in Shahdara, followed by the East district. These are densely populated areas where infection spread quickly and people developed antibodies against coronavirus. Evidence has emerged that people who recover from mild Covid-19 develop antibodies which may last a lifetime,” Dr Rai told HT.Dr Rai added that a large number of people were infected with coronavirus and recovered without even realising that they got Covid: “It ultimately worked as a shield for them against Covid-19. It may be the reason behind these districts reporting lower cases even in the second wave.”Dr Suneela Garg, director-professor of community medicine at Maulana Azad Medical College, said one of the reasons behind some districts reporting higher cases is the higher flow of international passengers to these districts. “Lack of proper masking and violations of Covid appropriate behaviour could also to blame,” she said.Meanwhile, officials said the districts reporting higher Covid cases have been put on alert. “One of the reasons behind New Delhi having higher cases is lack of clarity about the district boundaries in public. People living in Karol Bagh also write New Delhi as an address for tests. We have found several cases where positive persons belonging to neighbouring districts giving New Delhi as an address,” a district official, who did not want to be identified, said.Another official, who asked not to be named, said similar confusion existed in South and South-east districts. “People living in Kalkaji give South district as their address but Kalkaji actually comes under South-east,” the official said.A health department official said that the districts have been asked to increase random testing at crowded areas like markets.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/south-central-districts-adding-most-covid-cases-in-delhi-101640199848084.html
23-12-2021||Delhi||As temperatures dip, bonfires add to Delhi’s air pollution||As temperatures fall across north India, including Delhi, instances of open fires set by people in an attempt to keep warm has also started rising, prompting pollution control agencies in the Capital to direct municipal agencies to form special teams to keep a check on these fires, and limit its contribution to fouling up Delhi’s air.Senior officials of the Delhi Pollution Control Committee (DPCC) said that it received 67 complaints of open burning between December 12 and 22 on the government’s Green Delhi app, as compared to 21 cases reported between December 1 and 10.Officials said though most of the cases were of garbage burning, instances of small localised fires to ward off the cold also featured in the list.Officials said these instances have increased especially over the last five-six days when temperatures across north India plunged, with many cities recording a cold wave.“Apart from the complaints that we are receiving, our own patrolling teams have also started noticing a rise in these local fires. As the temperatures are dropping, in many localities, people are lighting localised fires to keep themselves warm. While the intensity of these fires may be small, when the numbers increase, its impact on pollution increases,” said a senior DPCC official.The official said that along with their own patrolling teams, the municipal agencies in the city — North, South and East Delhi municipal corporations — have also been directed to keep a close watch on these fires.Officials said that the focus of prosecution is on large garbage fires, and that in cases of fires set by residents to keep themselves warm in the cold, authorities only resort to counselling and warnings, instead of fines.“These fires are usually set by people from poorer sections. They are either people who are on night shifts, like security guards etc, or the homeless people who do not have a roof over their heads. For them pollution is not a criterion,” the official said.Municipal agencies said that they have started night patrolling in localities.“Our special teams are keeping a close watch on these fires and putting it out. Since most of these fires are reported during the night, our teams are also conducting night patrols,” said Jogi Ram Jain, the chairperson of the North MCD standing committee.Enforcement agencies also pointed out that such fires can be controlled only with public cooperation.Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) officials said that while the Supreme Court-mandated Graded Response Action Plan (Grap) lists giving heaters to security staff by individual house owners when the pollution levels peak to the ‘very poor’ levels during winter, it is a suggestion and cannot be imposed mandatorily.“We have been trying to get residents from upscale localities on board to get them to provide heaters so that these small fires can be stopped but we have not been able to get many on board with this. This is something that will have to be done by house owners. We can advise them but not force them,” a senior CPCB official said requesting anonymity.Aniket Aggarwal, president of the north Delhi residents welfare forum, said that they have been advising independent house owners to provide heating equipment to their staff, especially for those doing night shifts.“Many of our members have done this, but we cannot force anyone. In some areas, however, we have seen that despite being given heating equipment and blankets, they light fires because it helps them stay awake. More awareness campaigns will have to be conducted for house owners and staff alike,” he said.
23-12-2021||Pune||Gold loan firm in Pune defrauded of ₹5.77 lakh||PUNE: A gold loan provider company in Pune was duped by a man who provided documents and gold for a loan takeover from another financer and in exchange provided gold that did not match the purity standard prescribed in the rules. A complaint was lodged by a 30-year-old employee of the company that took over the gold loan from another private financer. The loan was granted on March 25, according to the complainant. “We are checking if the earlier loan even existed or were the documents forged. The complainant is a loan manager in the current company and we are investigating all allegations in the complaint. So far it does not appear that the loan was paid to this company or the previous company,” said assistant inspector Umesh Londhe of Sahakrnagar police station who is investigating the case. The accused produced a receipt from a finance company claiming that the loan had already been granted once. The man then submitted 6 gold chains against which he took ₹5,77,966 loan which was transferred to his account. The gold was later found to be lesser than 18 carat as per the terms of the loan. A case under Section 420 (cheating) of Indian Penal Code was registered at Sahakarnagar police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/gold-loan-firm-in-pune-defrauded-of-rs-5-77-lakh-101640199798072.html
23-12-2021||Noida||Noida: Veterans celebrate Vijay Diwas to commemorate Indian martyrs of 1971 war||Military veterans in Gautam Budh Nagar on Wednesday marked Vijay Diwas at the Shaheed Smarak in Noida’s Sector 29, a week after the event was observed across the country on December 16--the day it is usually observed every year--to honour the victory of the Indian armed forces over Pakistan in the 1971 war. Vice chief of the naval staff vice admiral S N Ghormande was the chief guest at the event, which paid homage to some 38 soldiers of Gautam Budh Nagar, who have been martyred in different wars. Some 40 people attended the event with strict adherence to Covid-appropriate behaviour. “There was a wreath laying ceremony which was carried out with military precision and tri-service guards and buglers in attendance. The programme started at 10am and ran for an hour. The next of kin of those who died in the war, civil dignitaries, bureaucrats and school students were also present,” said Navy commodore(retd), Narinder Mahajan, a member of Noida Shaheed Smarak Sansthan (NSSS).Shaheed smarak was the only tri-services memorial in the country to honour soldiers killed in action before the National War Memorial was built at India Gate in 2019. The memorial in Noida was established on April 13, 2002. “The event reminds the families of martyrs that the sacrifices of their loved ones will never be forgotten and that the country will keep honouring them,” added Mahajan.The memorial has become an iconic landmark in Noida. Vintage equipment , such as 40 mm L 60 air defence guns, model of warship INS CHENNAI, naval surface-to-air missiles and an ISKRA jet trainer aircraft of Polish origin, are all part of the memorial.“It is an honour to pay homage to the valiant martyrs who have made the supreme sacrifice for the nation. I compliment the NSSS for maintaining this Smarak in a pristine and excellent manner that brings our community together,” said vice admiral Ghormande. Sanskruti Ghormande, wife of the vice-admiral, interacted and distributed gifts to the next of kin of the 38 martyrs.
23-12-2021||Delhi||Designated feeding spots latest sticking point in conflict over stray dogs||Delhi (like many metros) is divided over community dogs , and the July judgement of the Delhi High Court, which sought to strike a balance hasn’t really helped.In an 86-page judgement by Justice J R Midha, the HC established that citizens had a right to feed and dogs had a right to access food, but at the same time, the exercise should not cause inconvenience or infringe upon the rights of others.Sonya Ghosh, an animal activist, who has been designating feeding spots on behalf of the Animal Welfare Board of India or AWBI, says the 2021 order reiterates what a 2009 HC order did, the need to designate fixed feeding spots for community dogs so feeders and the general public will not come into a conflict.“This means the spots can only be fixed in corners or back lanes of colonies, areas that people do not frequent much and where the dogs will also not face any problems. This also reduces the number of people coming in contact with the dogs; those who generally feed the dogs also tend to sterilise them and ensure they are vaccinated, thereby ensuring no diseases are spread,” she adds.Ghosh, a resident of Vasant Kunj’s D-3 and D-4, has multiple feeding spots fixed in her own neighbourhood and says she has also fixed over 150 feeding spots in Delhi, since the 2009 judgement came out, but that even then, there is resistance from residents and resident welfare associations or RWAs.Many are opposed to multiple spots; some even want them to be fixed outside colony boundaries.“One or two spots are not enough in most cases as dogs are territorial and will fight amongst one another and not move large distances in a group. Therefore, spots to feed a small pack need to be fixed at multiple points,” explains Ghosh, who has successfully been able to fix spots in Vasant Kunj’s Sector A, pocket B&C, Sector B’s pockets 5&6, Sector D’s pockets 3&4, the Freedom Fighters Colony in Neb Sarai, in Malviya Nagar, two spots in Dwarka, Roop Nagar, Pusa institute, Khirki extension, Supreme enclave and Saket.Amongst the spots identified this year are those in Vasant Kunj’s E-2 block, but even there, feeders have faced stiff resistance from other residents. Urvashi Vashist, a resident, says there are 15 complaints currently registered in the local police station over physical attacks on feeders, but little action has been taken so far.“We thought the situation would improve once the feeding spots are fixed, but even then, there are residents who want the dogs to be fed outside the colony. Currently, we have five feeding spots fixed, but not all dogs can congregate at one spot and they also cannot move outside their territory,” says Vashisht.Delhi agencies do not maintain data on stray dogs; these are territorial, serve as guard dogs, and keep the rodent population down. But some are violent (sometimes because some residents abuse them) and bite passers by and young children. According to municipal data Delhi reported 31,913 dog bites this year so far, and most are by community dogs. These dogs can’t be exterminated (like some residents want to), or simply shipped out; there are legal restrictions against both. But voluntary animal groups in most neighbourhoods take care of them, sterilise them (ensuring their population remains low), and try and relocate violent community dogs in shelters -- usually at their own cost. But most neighbourhoods remain vertically split between dog lovers and dog haters, with even professionals and former bureaucrats thinking nothing of either using their influence or bribing corporation workers to relocate community dogs.Prachi Jain, assistant secretary at AWBI admits that few neighbourhoods directly approach them for assistance. “These are fixed when there is conflict and we are called in only when people require our intervention. In a lot of areas, residents fix a spot themselves and so there are many areas where residents have decided amongst themselves.”For instance, n Nizamuddin East, residents identified feeding spots themselves and placed boards identifying them as such. “One feeding spot was fixed by AWBI several years ago, but the remaining seven or eight spots have been fixed by us. Some dogs are territorial and will not go to these spots, but most follow a routine and now know which feeder will feed them when and where. This has reduced conflict to a large extent,” says Shobha Malhotra, a local resident.But not all RWAs are willing to adhere to the HC order.Dr. Sujit Kumar Dutta, Secretary, AWBI told HT he had to personally intervene in a conflict at the Amrapali Zodiac society in sector 120, Noida, where the RWA still refuses to allow feeding spots. “The HC judgement and the law are clear, but RWAs in cases are misusing this and not allowing spots to be fixed. Even we face resistance.”Nidha Sharma, a resident of east Kidwai Nagar cites similar issues, after she has been unable to get a spot fixed within the government colony she resides in, owing to the resistance from other residents.“The demands from some RWA members and residents are that the spots should be fixed outside the gates of the colony. It is not possible to take 50 dogs outside and feed them each time. Pet lovers have been feeding these dogs for years and also sterilise them, but we are not getting any support from others to get a designated feeding spot inside,” she says.Gauri Maulekhi, an animal activist and trustee at People for Animals (PFA) says while these points are not needed in all localities, AWBI should intervene swiftly in matters or areas where hostility is shown towards animals or caregivers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/designated-feeding-spots-latest-sticking-point-in-conflict-over-stray-dogs-in-delhi-101640199788411.html
23-12-2021||Lucknow||Allahabad University begins search for Pt Deen Dayal Upadhyay Chair professor||Allahabad University (AU) would soon undertake researches in various aspects like political philosophy and integral humanism as defined by Pandit Deendayal Upadhyay, renowned social thinker and RSS ideologue. The varsity has started the process of the appointment of a professor for the Pt Deen Dayal Upadhyay Chair on its campus.“AU has started accepting applications and nominations from eminent social scientists, including academicians and scholars of outstanding track record in the designated areas of study for chair professor, Pt Deendayal Upadhyay Chair,” informed AU PRO Prof Jaya Kapoor.The last date of applications reaching the office of the registrar, AU, is January 4, 2022, she added.The union education minister Dharmendra Pradhan had announced University Gants Commission’s (UGC) decision to set up this chair at AU during the central varsity’s convocation function on November 8. Once the chair professor gets appointed, he or she would engage in research, design and execute short-term capacity building programmes for teachers in higher education focussed towards the designated discipline of the chair. The professor would also publish articles and research papers besides reports, books and monographs on relevant topics besides participating in teaching and PhD programmes.In 2016, an expert committee of five members was formed by the UGC to examine establishing chairs in the name of eminent personalities. The committee of experts had recommended that Pandit Deendayal Upadhyay Chair should be established by the commission to study his socio-economic thoughts and ‘Integral Humanism’. The commission bears all expenses for the chair. Already, Pandit Deendayal Upadhyay Chair has been set up in various varsities of the country, including the Central University of Jammu, Alagappa University in Tamil Nadu, Central University Himachal Pradesh, North Maharashtra University, Jalgaon in Maharashtra and Banaras Hindu University, Varanasi.Pt Deendayal Upadhyay was a leading Indian philosopher, economist, sociologist, historian, journalist, and political scientist who gave the concept and developed the doctrine of integral humanism. According to Upadhyay humankind had four hierarchically organised attributes of body, mind, intellect and soul which corresponded to four universal objectives— Kama (desire), Artha (wealth), Dharma (moral duties) and Moksha (total liberation or ‘salvation’). Dharma is the basic, while Moksha is the ultimate objective of humankind and society. Dharma is the thread bear that abides ‘Kama’ and ‘Artha’ for the supreme goal of human life ‘Moksha’. This Chatushtya Purusharth, rooted in ancient Indian culture, are integrated and not disgruntled or conflicting like the western ideology of capitalism and communism. Deendayal’s idea of ‘Integral Humanism’ many believe can ensure holistic and sustainable development of the society that paves the way to happiness and peace at the individual, social, national and global level.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/allahabad-university-begins-search-for-pt-deen-dayal-upadhyay-chair-professor-101640199731597.html
23-12-2021||Delhi||Delhi Police arrest 2 behind online Voter ID racket||Delhi Police busted a gang running a fake website voteridcard.ebharatseva.in and arrested two persons who allegedly masterminded the fraud in Uttar Pradesh on Tuesday.Police said that the men established an online network in India to lure gullible people into applying for a voter ID. After the initial enrolment, they would charge ₹650 from each applicant. Police said the men managed to cheat over 10,000 people till date.Police said they formed a team to crack the case after a few complaints reached the Kamla Market police station. One of the complainants told police he wanted a few details changed in his Voter ID card, and found the website voteridcard.ebharatseva.in.He said that when he opened the website and filled in the application, he was directed to a payment gateway asking for ₹650 as mandatory charges. After making the payment, he received emails from info@ebharatseva.in and no-reply@razorpay.com, stating that the payment was successful and his application would be processed, after which an executive would contact him.However, when there was no further response, the complainant got suspicious and found that the official website of Election Commission of India is voterportal.eci.gov.in. The complainant then realised he was a victim of cyber fraud.DCP (central) Shweta Chauhan said, “During investigation we found the payment was processed through Razorpay payment gateway and credited on an account registered in the name of Titu Cyber Cafe. The proprietor was identified as one Manmohan Singh. During interrogation, he confessed his involvement and disclosed the complicity of his accomplice Ankit Kumar Pal. Both men belong to UP.” “The bank accounts of the suspects are being verified. We are making efforts to trace the other suspects involved in this case,” added the DCP.Police said the men also promoted their site on Google Ads. Police said that Pal has a diploma in electronics from Amroha, UP. He told them he met his accomplices while working at a BPO. He also said the same gang runs fake websites for HSRP, driving licences, food licences, and Fast Tag.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-police-arrest-2-behind-online-voter-idracket-101640199730239.html
23-12-2021||Mumbai||BMC spent less than half of its capital budget in past 8 months||Mumbai In eight months since the financial year 2021 started, Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) has spent less than half of its capital budget outlay 2021 aimed at creating or repairing civic infrastructure in the city, data from the civic body has revealed. Until November 30, 2021, the civic body has spent 40.7% of its capital budget outlay of ₹18,750.99 crore for the year 2021-22. This amounts to a total expenditure of ₹7,629.33 crore on projects of civil works across departments such as Coastal Road, Roads and traffic, bridges, solid waste management, stormwater drains, health, and primary education infrastructure.This comes in the fifth year of the ruling Shiv Sena’s tenure in the BMC and municipal elections are scheduled to take place in early 2022. The capital budget is a part of the annual budget and is the money allotted for construction or repairs or the upgradation of civic development works in the city. The highest expenditure from its capital budget has been for the ongoing Coastal Road project, where BMC has spent 96% or ₹1,920.67 crore, out of its estimates of ₹2,000 crore for the year 2021-22. The construction cost of the Coastal Road project is pegged at ₹8,429 crore, and the total cost of the Coastal Road project is estimated to be ₹12,700 crore, according to the civic body. A little over 41% of the Coastal Road project work was completed until November this year, and the civic body aims to complete it by November 2023.For the sewage project departments including the upgradation of the Sewage Treatment Plants (STPs), none of the allotted amounts of ₹1,339.94 crore has been spent yet, data has revealed.Other departments which have utilised the most of their capital budget outlay 2021-22 are the roads and traffic department, which has used up 86.7%% or ₹1,185.89 crore of its capital outlay of ₹1,367 crore; the stormwater drains department has used 56.5% or ₹556.7 crore of its capital budget outlay of ₹985.06 crore; and the bridges department has used up 55.7% or ₹462.21 crore of its allotment of ₹830.1 crore.Elected representatives in the civic body have criticised the administration for inadequate work done in the financial year 2021-22. Ravi Raja, leader of the opposition in the BMC, said, “All the departments where expenditure is considerably higher, is due to money disbursed toward last year’s projects. No actual new work has been initiated on ground in 2021-22. If we are to examine the expenditure in detail, we will find actual new works do not amount to more than 20-30% of the planned expenditure. The last six-seven months have not seen a strict lockdown due to the pandemic, so work could have been initiated.”Kishori Pednekar, Mumbai mayor said, “The civic budget has been utilised aptly, and no compromise is done on development work in the city. The most important departments, such as roads, health, water, have seen fast progress of work. Coastal Road work has also progressed very fast. All of this work has progressed during a pandemic, under various departments.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/bmc-spent-less-than-half-of-its-capital-budget-in-past-8-months-101640199726803.html
23-12-2021||Delhi||Corruption allegations by deputy CM Sisodia baseless: North MCD mayor||Senior functionaries of North Delhi Municipal Corporation on Wednesday said deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia’s allegations regarding the misappropriation of funds by Delhi’s municipal corporations are false and the civic body has approached the court to get its dues in tax share, which has not yet been released by the Delhi government. Mayor Raja Iqbal Singh said that earlier spokespersons of Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) would make allegations against the civic body, but a person holding a constitutional post should not make false allegations without getting their facts right. “We are open to debate in any public forum regarding the outstanding funds of the corporation,” he added.Singh claimed that the Delhi government owes ₹660.68 crore under the plan head for the last three years while ₹328.60 crore is pending for the current year. “This year, the government has not released the due funds -- ₹145.70 crore--for basic tax assignment, ₹45.70 crore for urban development and ₹137.20 crore for education. The government is not releasing the outstanding funds so as to paralyse the corporation financially,” he alleged.Sisodia on Monday said the Delhi government owes no dues to the three BJP-ruled municipal corporations, and added that despite the government disbursing ₹2,588 crore this year, the civic bodies failed to pay salaries to their employees. He alleged the MCD is being hollowed out because of rampant corruption.Chairman of the standing committee Jogi Ram Jain said that even the Lieutenant Governor of Delhi wrote to the Delhi government for the disbursal of outstanding funds, but since no money seems forthcoming, the corporation has filed a court case to get its dues. “The AAP is accusing us of ₹2,500 crore rent scam. It has been made clear several times that the standing committee had decided to take the rent from the South Delhi Municipal Corporation. Rupees 2,500 crore was shown in its budget provisions too,” he added. Jain clarified that the Biomining trommel machines at Bhalswa landfill site have not been hired at ₹18.5 lakh and the municipal corporation is paying ₹306 per metric ton, which includes manpower. “AAP is deliberately misleading citizens by saying a scam has taken place in Biomining. These are possibly the lowest rates in biomining all across the country,” he added. Similarly, he said, the reserve price for the Shalimar Bagh multilevel parking lot has been kept at ₹126 crore, which is higher than the circle rate.“How can there be a scam in open bidding process? Can the rate of land at Shalimar Bagh be ₹1 crore per sqm? These are absurd allegations,” he added. Leader of the House Chhail Bihari Goswami said that senior municipal functionaries also protested for 13 days at the chief minister’s residence for outstanding funds but he did not discuss the issue even once with them. “Allegations made by the Aam Aadmi Party regarding the sterilisation of dogs are false. The North MCD has to pay ₹1.98 crore for the year 2020 and ₹1.28 crore for the year 2021 to the NGO for dog sterilisation, which is still pending. No funds have been released so how can a ₹15 crore scam take place?” he asked.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/corruption-allegations-by-deputy-cm-sisodia-baseless-north-mcd-mayor-101640199725445.html
