24-12-2021||Lucknow||‘Custodial death’ case: Allahabad HC seeks reply of Kasganj SP||In the matter of alleged custodial death of a youth in UP’s Kasganj district last month, the Allahabad high court has directed superintendent of police (SP), Kasganj, to file reply in response to the writ petition seeking a Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) probe into the incident and ₹1 crore ex gratia to next of kin of the deceased. Altaf, 22, who was called for interrogation in an abduction case, had died in police custody at Kotwali police station in Kasganj on November 9 this year.Hearing a writ petition filed by Chand Miyan, the father of the deceased, a division bench comprising Justice Mahesh Chandra Tripathi and Justice Subhash Vidyarthi in its order dated December 23 (Thursday) directed to list the case as fresh on January 10, 2022 for next hearing.The petitioner had requested the court to direct the CBI to take over the investigation of this alleged custodial death case and to proceed against all the concerned police officers and such other persons found to be involved in the incident. Besides, the court was also requested to direct constitution of a court-monitored special investigation team (SIT) to take over the investigation.The petitioner also requested the court to direct the state government to provide a compensation of ₹1 crore or such sum as this court may deem fit to the petitioner for their failure to prevent the custodial death of the petitioner’s son and also to pass such appropriate orders or directions to ensure security and protection of the petitioner and his family during the pendency of the present writ petition.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/custodial-death-case-allahabad-hc-seeks-reply-of-kasganj-sp-101640370441285.html
24-12-2021||Lucknow||AMU gets award for energy conservation||Aligarh Muslim University (AMU) has been awarded the second prize among higher educational institutions of Uttar Pradesh in recognition of its contribution to energy conservation. Uttar Pradesh New and Renewable Energy Development Agency (NPNEDA), the state designated agency under the Energy Conservation Act 2001, government of India, has awarded the AMU, said a press statement issued by the public relations office of the AMU on Friday.Expressing happiness over the achievement, vice chancellor of AMU prof Tariq Mansoor said conservation of energy and adoption of green energy sources was a critical measure for preventing global warming and promoting sustainable development. AMU is one of the leading institutions in the country which has adopted green energy solutions.Prof Mohd Rihan (member incharge, electricity, and convener, Green University Project Committee, AMU), who received the award on behalf of the university recently, said the AMU had been vehemently pursuing energy efficiency and conservation and this award had been given based on the evaluation of reduction in the requirement of energy, implementing policy decisions on energy efficiency and conservation.The evaluation process has also taken in view the training programmes conducted for staff and energy conservation awareness campaigns for society, stated the press statement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/amu-gets-award-for-energy-conservation-101640370021285.html
24-12-2021||Lucknow||UP CM Yogi to lay stone of houses for poor in Prayagraj on Dec 26||Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath will on December 26 (Sunday) lay the foundation stone of 75 houses being constructed under the Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojana on a piece of land that was freed from the illegal possession of Mafioso-turned-politician and ex-MP Atiq Ahmed in Prayagraj, said senior BJP leaders aware of it. During his third visit to the Sangam city in a span of 10 days, CM Yogi Adityanath will also address a public meeting at Lukerganj after laying the foundation stone, the BJP leaders added. Confirming the CM’s proposed visit plan, UP cabinet minister Sidharth Nath Singh said, “Yogi Raj” had brought an end to mafia and “Goondaraj” that prevailed during the previous Samajwadi Party regime paving the way for “Ramrajya” in Uttar Pradesh. “This would be the first government construction on a land that has been freed from the mafia and bears significance as the Yogi government wants to convey the message to masses that days of ‘Mafiaraj’ in the state are over and that now a popular CM is ruling the state and various pieces of land freed from Mafiosi and criminals would be used for the welfare of the poor, starting from this piece of land which falls in my assembly constituency,” said Singh who is the MLA from Allahabad west assembly of Prayagraj. Before being elected an MP from Phulpur in 2004, Atiq Ahmed had been an MLA from this assembly seat for five times in a row. Later, his winning streak was broken by Raju Pal who contested on a Bahujan Samaj Party ticket but after his murder in 2005 and the resulting by-poll, Atiq’s younger brother Mohd Ashraf had won the seat. In the last state elections in 2017, Siddharth Nath Singh had won the seat by a huge margin defeating Samajwadi Party’s (SP) Richa Singh. The cabinet minister further said the CM had recently announced construction of houses for the poor on the land that had been freed from the mafia. Following this, 75 houses would be built in Lukerganj on the land that was freed from Atiq and his henchmen. Prayagraj Development Authority (PDA) had got this land freed last year. On Thursday, Singh, who is also the state government’s spokesman, inspected the foundation stone laying site. He said the CM will lay the foundation stone and inaugurate many other development works, address a public meeting and can also review the preparations for Magh Mela.In October 2021, PDA had prepared a blueprint for construction of houses under the Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojana (PMAY) on the land that was freed from Atiq Ahmad. A tender has also been issued for construction of this housing complex. There is a plan to build houses for the poor on 1731 square metres of land free from Atiq. A total of 75 flats will be built in multi-storey buildings with each flat built in an area of 34.09 square metres. A community hall and a park will also be built in the residential complex. This will be the second project of PDA under the PMAY in Prayagraj. The first one is built at Kalindipuram.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/up-cm-yogi-to-lay-stone-of-houses-for-poor-in-prayagraj-on-dec-26-101640369661291.html
24-12-2021||Jaipur||No govt benefits, penalties for unvaccinated in Rajasthan, orders Ashok Gehlot||JAIPUR: The Rajasthan government will soon make it compulsory for residents of the state to get vaccinated against the coronavirus disease, chief minister Ashok Gehlot said on Friday, declaring that people who refuse to get vaccinated will not be eligible for benefits under government schemes and may also have to pay fines.Gehlot, who reviewed the Covid-19 situation in the state against the backdrop of mounting concern over the Omicron variant, also set a January 31, 2022 target to ensure 100% coverage for all adults. Rajasthan health secretary Vaibhav Galaria said 88.5% of the eligible population in the state has been administered the first dose, and 71.5% population is double vaccinated.Rajasthan has reported 22 cases of the Omicron variant in the state and has started sending all Covid positive samples for genome sequencing.According to a statement issued by the government after Gehlot’s review meeting, the chief minister cited the decision of Punjab government not to pay salaries to its employees who don’t get the jab. Tamil Nadu has also made vaccination mandatory for all government employees.“A list of those not taking the vaccine should be prepared and their names should be removed from the list of government scheme beneficiaries,” the government statement said, quoting the chief minister.A penalty can also be imposed for not getting vaccinated as is being done for not wearing a mask, Gehlot said after a meeting to review . Rajasthan has made wearing mask mandatory under the state version of Epidemic Control Act, 2020 and has prescribed fine of ₹200 for first offence and ₹500 for subsequent ones. “The state government will ensure that no one refuses vaccinated. Guidelines will also be issued soon to make vaccination mandatory. By January 31, 2022, the second dose of vaccines must be administered and the district collectors should ensure 100% (double dose) vaccination,” Ashok Gehlot added.Several states have re-introduced restrictions in view of the increasing cases of Covid infections including night curfews and barring people who have not been vaccinated from public spaces.Gehlot said the Rajasthan government hadn’t withdrawn its previous notification imposing night curfew and will start enforcing its compliance.“The night curfew is already there in Rajasthan. We haven’t withdrawn it, but over time, we became lenient. The night curfew is there from 11pm to 5 am, which needs to be enforced,” he said.“The Omicron variant is spreading rapidly in many countries of the world. In such a situation, the people of the state should follow the Covid protocol and night curfew effectively. Otherwise, the state government will take strict steps against offenders,” said Gehlot.The chief minister also nudged the central government to quickly decide in favour of a booster dose.The central government should seriously consider administering of the vaccine’s booster dose to people above 60 years of age and frontline workers, and start vaccinating children also.Senior pulmonologist Dr Virdrendra Choudhary described the government decision to make vaccination mandatory as “an important step”.“Someone saying not getting vaccinated is his choice but he can be dangerous and act as a spreader. This variant, omicron spreads very fast and one cannot be allowed to endanger others’ life,” he said. BJP MLA and spokesperson Ram Lal Sharma said, mandatory vaccination “is a good step and in the interest of the people.”
24-12-2021||Other||SKM to contest Punjab assembly polls||Chandigarh Thirty-two farm organisations, part of the Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM), the umbrella body that led the year-long protest at the borders of New Delhi against the three farm laws passed by the Centre last year, have decided that they will contest Punjab assembly polls independently, and will not support any political party. The leaders of these organisations held marathon meetings over Thursday and Friday on the issue; a formal announcement is expected on Saturday. It has been proposed to make Balbir Singh Rajewal as the leader of their political front, with another meeting expected on Saturday. Sources claimed that the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) is in touch with some key leaders of the SKM, including Rajewal, and have offered him a key role in case the party forms the government after the elections. Some SKM leaders were keen to support AAP, but finally consensus emerged on going ti alone. “We will play an active role in the upcoming polls,” said Harmeet Singh of Bhartiya Kisan Union (BKU (Qadian), refusing to elaborate further. According to him, leaders of different farmer bodies come from varied ideologies and have been supporting contrasting political parties in the past. “To bring them on a common platform will take time. We are meeting again, for which venue and time will be disclosed later,” he said, adding that the SKM was proceeding democratically, with major decisions being put to vote. BKU (Qadian) and the Rajewal-led union share common ground on the majority of issues, but on the question of Aam Aadmi Party (AAP), there are differences. Rajewal is tilted towards the AAP, with the other factions not enamoured by the party. Significantly, BKU (Ugrahan), not a part of the SKM, supported all decisions of the group during the agitation against farm laws; for now, however, it has announced that it will stay away from the political process. The Joginder Singh Ugrahan-led faction has largest support base in comparison to any other farm body. BKU (Lakhowal) and BKU (Sidhupur) have been supporting the SAD, but have not taken a call on the polls. In the past, the Rajewal-led body has always made its stand clear only after the polls are announced. According to another farm leader all parties are in touch with farm leaders and raising the funds needed to contest these polls was now the key issue. BKU (Kranti Kari), Kranti Kari Kisan Union, Doaba Kisan Sangarsh Committee; Jai Kisan Andolan and BKU (Sidhupur) have announced that they will not participate in the polls.  5 acre land sought for memorial near Ludhiana In Friday’s meeting, farm unions have also sought land from the state government to erect a memorial for the 700-odd farmers who lost their lives during the year-long agitation. On Thursday, chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi, in a meeting with SKM, had asked them to decided on a location. “We have demanded 5 acre on a state or national highway near Ludhiana,” a representative of the SKM said. It was also decided to audit expenses and accruals that they have received as part of the agitation. According to estimates, ₹7 crore was received from donors, with the balance money with them estimated at around ₹2 crore. 
24-12-2021||Pune||Natural calamities on the rise, Rs254.22 cr spent in disaster relief in Pune in 5 years||PUNE The state government has spent over Rs21,068 crore in the last five years for disaster relief in calamities such as extreme rainfall and flood, untimely rain, tropical cyclones and hailstorm, as Aaditya Thackeray, state minister of tourism and environment. In Pune district, Rs254.22 crore has been spent.On Friday, Thackeray presented the report of the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC), impacts of climate change on Maharashtra and climate action taken by the government before the elected members of the assembly and council.It also mentions that due to the urban heat island parts of Pune have experienced about three degrees Celsius temperature rise between 2001-2016. The prediction has been made that if the world temperature rises by 2 degrees Celsius- 2.5 degrees Celsius the tropics will be worst impacted in Maharashtra. Also, severe impacts in coastal tropical areas are possible which also includes the possibility of submergence.“Earlier, we had presented the IPCC report to the state cabinet after which, the Maharashtra Council of Climate Change was formed, headed by the chief minister. We also urged the elected members to work actively on climate action in their constituencies and for their cooperation with the environment and climate change department,” said Thackeray on Twitter.According to the report districts in Marathwada appear to be worst affected. Almost Rs1615.42 crore was spent in Nanded, Rs1261.95 crore was spent in Jalna, Rs1447.15 crore were spent in Beed, Rs1158.34 crore was spent in Aurangabad district in the last five years. In western Maharashtra, Rs1,042.12 crore was spent in Sangli and Rs476.53 crore was spent in Kolhapur in the last five years.The report says, due to the urban heat island effect parts of Pune have experienced about 3 degrees Celsius temperature rise between 2001-2016.The report has stated that in the last five years 17 districts in the state witnessed five to seven instances of extreme rainfall events. Also, 15 districts in Maharashtra have witnessed significant instances of untimely rainfall events during the same period.Amount spent in last five years(Figures for state)Extreme rainfall and flood - Rs8,244 croreUntimely rain: Rs7,276 croreTropical cyclones: Rs3,044 croreHailstorms: ₹2,504 croreTotal ₹21,068 crore||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/natural-calamities-on-the-rise-rs254-22-cr-spent-in-disaster-relief-in-pune-in-5-years-101640366300855.html
24-12-2021||Other||Case against Majithia lodged under SAD-BJP regime: Channi||Chandigarh Punjab chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi on Friday claimed that a case dairy (zimni) of Punjab Police related to a drug cartel busted in 2013 refers to the role of Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) leader Bikram Singh Majithia. Addressing a press conference, Channi said before taking action against Majithia, he had made sure that he, himself, was convinced about the role of Majithia, after discussions with officers. “When I got fully convinced that these people had involvement, we proceeded as per directions of the Punjab and Haryana high court,” Channi said, adding that since this case was not registered during the Congress government’s time, the question of political vendetta did not arise. “Rather, the case was cracked in during SAD-BJP’s tenure in 2013. In one such case, the case diary has the name of Majithia. Drug lord Jagdish Bhola had openly named him in the case as well, before the media in Mohali court that time,” the CM said. He alleged that the Enforcement Directorate (ED) had also detected Majithia’s role, claiming that it had also found him guilty. “People involved in the drug trade including Satta, Pindi…are on the run now. The ED probe says these people used to live in Majithia’s house and were given gunmen,” the CM claimed. “No action against Majithia was take; rather he was sheltered because he was related to the then CM and the deputy CM,” said Channi. On former CM Capt Amarinder terming the case against Majithia as baseless, Channi quipped that the cat is out of the bag. Channi also took a dig at Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal for tendering an apology to Majithia. “Kejriwal should tender an apology to people of Punjab now. Bhagwant Mann also colluded with the Delhi CM to beg for apology from Kejriwal. SAD leader from Delhi Manjinder Singh Sirsa arranged the meeting between Kejriwal and Majithia,” said Channi, while claiming that the government would also probe the sand and liquor businesses of the accused in the drug cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/case-against-majithia-lodged-under-sad-bjp-regime-channi-101640366000852.html
24-12-2021||Chandigarh||Changing data privacy landscape in India||Data privacy, primarily the privacy of individuals, is emerging as a major issue in India. The recent controversy on Pegasus, though some of it was politically instigated, occupied more space in public debate because of rising concerns on privacy, but international data surveillance is also worrying for national security reasons. The rising surveillance capitalism is a cause of worry on the economic front. The right to privacy has evolved across nations. It encapsulates obligations of the State concerning the protection of personal data. The Constitution of India does not specifically provide for privacy as a Fundamental Right. According to the Supreme Court of India, the Right to Privacy is a part of the Right to Life and Liberty under Article 21 of the Constitution. It is interpreted as a vertical right against the State under Article 12 of the Constitution, and not against private citizens. India, however, does not have comprehensive privacy law, and limited data protection standards are defined under the Telegraph Act, 1885, and the Information Technology Act, 2000. The collection and use of data are also regulated under different sector-specific laws and regulations, such as the Right to Education Act, 2005, the National Food Security Act, 2013, the Aadhar Act, 2016, and the Reserve Bank of India Act. Procedural safeguards against misuseThe Telegraph Act empowers the State to carry out interception of phones on the grounds of public emergency or in the interest of public safety provided that such interception is in the interest of the security of the State, friendly relation with foreign states, public order, and for preventing the incitement of offences. However, there were thus no procedural safeguards against the misuse of the powers of the State. The Telegraph Rules were notified in 2007, as per the guidelines of the Supreme Court. The Information Technology Act was enacted in 2000 and amended in 2008. The Act allows for the interception, monitoring, and decryption of digital information in the interest of sovereignty and integrity of India, friendly relations with foreign nations, public order, preventing the incitement to the commission of any cognizable offence concerning these, and for the investigation of an offence. The Criminal Procedure Code 1973 deals with access to stored data. It provides that a court in India or any officer in charge of a police station may summon a person to produce any document or any other thing that is necessary for any investigation, inquiry, trial, or any other proceedings under a law. India has ratified the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights (ICCPR). Article 17 of the ICCPR provides that “no one shall be subjected to arbitrary or unlawful interference with his privacy, family, home or correspondence, nor to unlawful attacks on his honour and reputation”. The Government of India is also conscious of the GDPR of the European Union. In 2012, the Planning Commission of India appointed a group of experts to review the Telegraph Act, 1885, and the Information Technology Act, 2000, and suggest a way forward for privacy legislation. The group concluded that the discrepancies in existing laws created an ambiguous regulatory regime that is non-transparent, prone to misuse, and does not provide effective remedies for the aggrieved individuals. Formulating data protection law The Government of India established a committee under the chairmanship of Justice (retd) BN Krishna in 2017 to comprehend and formulate a data protection law for the country. The committee proposed a Personal Information Data Protection Bill, 2018. The proposed Bill aimed to reduce the cost of data acquisition, ensure safety due to reduced use of fiber optic cables, boost the information infrastructure, and ensure data sovereignty. It applied to personal data, categorising it as sensitive and non-sensitive personal data if it has been used, shared, disclosed, collected, or processed in India. However, it was modified to apply to the companies and empowered the Government of India to exempt companies, which are solely engaged in processing personal data of foreign nationals not present in India. The Data Protection Authority, an independent regulator, was proposed for data protection and accountability. The law envisaged that personal data should be processed only if the reason is clear, specific, and lawful and, the processing was crucial to the functioning of Parliament or state legislatures, maintenance of law and order, and public interest or in an emergency. Data principals and those whose data is processed shall have the right to be forgotten. After consultations with the stakeholders, the government introduced it in Parliament in November 2019. But it was referred to a joint parliamentary committee (JPC) that submitted its report in November 2021. Protecting privacy in its full depth The Data Privacy Bill was tabled in the just-concluded winter session of Parliament. The Bill covers non-personal aggregate and personal data. Whatever, apart from responding to international conventions on human rights and privacy protection, the new law should be simple and easy to use, without adding to the compliance burden on its subjects. It should not create data congestion and encourage minimum data collection. Further, the new data law will require process changes at various levels, but such changes should result in better revenues and quality delivery of services. The law should also recognise existing regulations and avoid duplication, and it should be technology agnostic and holistic. The legal provisions on data recovery and deletion should protect privacy in its full depth. It should create more trust through effective anti-trust and ex-ante regulations and establish new structures such as data cooperatives and data trusts. Independent and effective oversight on data and information surveillance by the State and its security and intelligence agencies is necessary to enthuse its acceptance. Data protection authority shall cover both the private and public sectors. It should be adequately resourced and empowered to investigate and punish the guilty for violations of anti-trust and ex-ante laws. These are some of the prerequisites of effective unified privacy legislation, which will change the privacy landscape in India. sureshkumarnangia@gmail.com The writer, a retired IAS officer, is a former chief principal secretary to the Punjab chief minister. Views expressed are personal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/changing-data-privacy-landscape-in-india-101640365641011.html
24-12-2021||Mumbai||Ajit Pawar says no to slashing fuel taxes in Maharashtra||Mumbai: Deputy chief minister and finance minister Ajit Pawar has ruled out that it is unlikely to cut the fuel taxes in Maharashtra, citing revenue losses of ₹250 crore every month if taxes are reduced. Pawar was replying to a debate in the lower house of the state assembly on Friday.He said, “Only BJP-ruled states have reduced taxes on fuel prices and that too when they received directives from their party high command because they have to face losses up to ₹250 crore a month. However, states like West Bengal, Tamil Nadu and others have not given relief. Maharashtra too will face losses up to ₹250 crore if it decides to cut state taxes which comes to nearly ₹3,000 crore in a year and the state’s economy is not in a position to bear revenue losses.”Leader of opposition Devendra Fadnavis said that the state government has not given any relief to the people from the rising fuel prices even after the central government reduced excise duties on petrol and diesel by ₹5 and ₹10 per litre respectively. He also accused the state government of reducing excise duty on imported liquor but chose not to give relief to the common people from skyrocketing fuel prices.On November 18, the state government slashed excise duty on all types of imported liquor by half. The excise duty that was charged as a special fee has been brought to 150% from 300% on the declared price.“The prices of imported liquor were highest in Maharashtra across the country because of exorbitant excise duty. A 750ml bottle of imported liquor costs around ₹5,760 in Maharashtra but the same bottle used to cost around ₹3,000 in Delhi because of less excise duty. This has led to the creation of a grey market as people started carrying bottles in their bags from other cities and the state government was losing revenue because they were not paying excise duty in Maharashtra. The state is expecting to increase its revenue from imported liquor to ₹200 crore from ₹100 crore per annum,” the finance minister clarified.Commenting on the ongoing strike of Maharashtra State Road Transport Corporation (MSRTC) employees who are firm on their demand of a merger with the state government, Pawar said that a merger is not possible. “The MSRTC employees should remove the demand of merger from their minds. The state government has increased their salary by ₹5,000 per month and also given a guarantee that it will be paid on time. We have accepted most of the demands after which unions have withdrawn the strike but employees are still continuing it… The ball is in the court of Bombay high court,” he said.
24-12-2021||Pune||Many Christmas Masses this year to accommodate senior citizens, youth||Even if there is a nip in the air, many of the youngsters are looking forward for the early Christmas Mass at their respective Parishes. Many of the youth are also busy making sweets and the MG road camp was seen with some last-minute shoppers buying gifts and decorations for Christmas. Christobel Mazarello, resident of Fatimanagar was busy making sweets, and eager to dress up and go for the Mass at her parish church which is St. Patrick’s Cathedral. “I will be stepping out after two years, and we are all very happy, looking forward to meeting friends and family. I am definitely dressing up to celebrate Christmas. The Christman spirit is of hope, which was taken away during coronavirus, but not giving up and hoping for things to get better next year.” Mazarello opted for the 7 pm slot of the Mass, while some of her friends opted for the 9 pm Mass. The Mass timings are divided this year to accommodate senior citizens as well as the youth. I am going with my family and we will finally get to visit relatives and friends tomorrow,” she said. The other parishes in the city like Salunkhe Vihar and Sasanenagar too were covered in glittering festive lights adding warmth to the people walking in for the Mass. But not everyone is still eager to attend in person, and some are still going to join the mass online. Hyacinth Arya said, “I am spending time with my granddaughter and do not want to risk going out in Church, even if it is 50% capacity. I will instead pray at home with my family members.” The festive lights along MG Road still attract a lot of people, but shopkeepers feel that the real experience will be on the day of Christmas where it is very beautiful with lot of shoppers and people coming to see the decorations.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/many-christmas-masses-this-year-to-accommodate-senior-citizens-youth-101640362580864.html
24-12-2021||Pune||Though Omicron cases are mild or asymptotic, its community spread should be prevented: Experts||Pune: Experts have warned that the threat of Omicron variant of Covid-19 should be taken seriously, even if the identified patients infected by this virus so far are asymptomatic or have mild symptoms. They have asserted that a tiny per cent of the huge number is still a big number and hence efforts should be made to prevent its community spread. As Omicron is said to be more infectious, according to experts, the fast and wide spread of the virus may prove challenging to deal with. So, it’s better to contain its spread at an early stage. “Currently the cases which have been identified are asymptomatic or have mild symptoms. This is not the point. Question is whether it spreads explosively. We have to keep in mind that this is pandemic and individual patients can be asymptomatic. But if it spreads explosively and which it is capable of, then there can be pressure on the health system. If it spreads hugely then there can be many people who will have symptoms. It will then put pressure on the healthcare system and infrastructure. Individual patients being symptomatic or asymptomatic is not the point. It is about the number of people affected at the same time,” said Dr Rajesh Karyakarte, deputy dean, professor and head of department of microbiology, BJ Government Medical College, Pune. Till date (by Friday), 108 patients infected with Omicron variant have been reported in the state. Out of these, 54 cases have been discharged following a negative RTPCR test.Dr Samir Dalwai, member of state paediatric task force, emphasised on strict adherence to the Covid preventive protocols to minimise the virus transmission. “Vaccination reduces the severity of disease. In order to avoid contracting it, the basic Covid preventive protocols should be followed. Wear a mask, wash hands and avoid crowding. These are the basic rules,” said Dr Dalwai. Out of 88 Omicron cases in Maharashtra, 42 have been discharged following a negative RT-PCR report. Dr Karyakarte said that in December so far 1,364 Covid positive samples mainly from Pune and Mumbai are being processed for the genome sequencing to identify the variants in the five in Pune. Results of 841 samples have come and 523 are still being processed. “The results show that Omicron is not already here and hence it is mainly coming from outside. So, we should identify it at the early stage,” said Dr Karyakarte. Dr Jitendra Oswal, deputy medical director at Bharati Vidyapeeth Medical College and Hospital, said to protect children from this variant the preventive norms should be followed. “Earlier as well, less paediatric cases were reported. So, there is no need to panic but by following the simple preventive norms children can be protected from infection,” said Dr Oswal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/though-omicron-cases-are-mild-or-asymptotic-its-community-spread-should-be-prevented-experts-101640362100977.html
24-12-2021||Bhopal||MP govt appoints 25 BJP leaders as chiefs of boards, corporations||The Madhya Pradesh government on Friday appointed 25 BJP leaders, including seven supporters of Union Civil Aviation minister Jyotiraditya Scindia who lost bypolls, to the posts of chairperson and vice chair person of boards and corporations of the state. The appointments were announced by chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan, official sources said. The prominent faces who lost bypolls after quitting the Congress and joining the BJP, and who have been now appointed chairpersons of different corporations are Imarti Devi, Girraj Dandotiya, Aidal Singh Kansana, Ranvir Jatav, Munna Lal Goyal, Raghuraj Kansna and Jaswant Jatav. Among these seven, Imarti Devi, Aidal Singh Kansana and Girraj Dandotiya were ministers when they lost the bypolls. Imarti Devi has been appointed chairperson of Laghu Udyog Nigam, Aidal Singh Kansana has been made chairperson of Madhya Pradesh State Agro Industries Development Corporation, Ranvir Jatav chairperson of Sant Ravidas Madhya Pradesh Handicrafts and Handloom Development Corporation, Girraj Dandotia chairperson of Madhya Pradesh Urja Vikas Nigam and Munna Lal Goyal is now chairperson of Madhya Pradesh Rajya Beej Evam Farm Vikas Nigam. Jaswant Jatav was appointed chairperson of Rajya Pashudhan Evam Kukkut Vikas Nigam, while Raghuraj Kansana will head Madhya Pradesh Backward Class and Minorities Finance Development Corporation, party sources said. Shailendra Sharma is now chairperson of Madhya Pradesh Kaushal Vikas Evam Rojgar Nirman Board, Vinod Gotiya will head MP State Tourism Development Corporation and Ashutosh Tiwari will be chief of MP Housing Board. The others are Amita Chapra, who has been made chief of Women's Finance and Development Corporation, Nirmala Barela, who will head MP SC/ST Finance Development Corporation and Jaipal Chavda, who has been appointed chairperson of Indore Development Authority, the sources said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bhopal-news/mp-govt-appoints-25-bjp-leaders-as-chiefs-of-boards-corporations-101640361268120.html
24-12-2021||Mumbai||The path to Maharashtra’s net zero commitment||In September, Maharashtra announced its commitment toward achieving net zero carbon emissions in 43 cities, including Mumbai, by the year 2040. These cities, which are home to about 45% of the state’s population, are recognised under the Centre’s Atal Mission for Rejuvenation and Urban Transformation (AMRUT) scheme, and have signed memorandums of understanding (MoU) with the UNFCCC-backed Race to Zero campaign.
24-12-2021||Patna||New panchayat heads in Bihar take oath, of office and keep the state ‘dry’||Newly elected panchayat representatives in Bihar started taking oath of office and also an oath to strictly follow liquor prohibition rules in the state in 8,387 gram panchayats across the state on Friday. The oath taking ceremonies in 534 panchayat samitis and 38 district board will start from December 27 and continue till January 3. In total, 2.55 lakh panchayat representatives elected to different posts are being administered oath to strictly comply with prohibition guidelines even as the State Election Commission ( SEC) has directed the district officials to ensure that all the affidavits pertaining to follow the liquor ban should be duly signed by the panchayat representatives, which would be uploaded in the poll panel’s own data base. In fact, the SEC, in its directive, has underlined that any panchayat representative not taking the oath to follow prohibition rules or give an affidavit in the prescribed format would face action as per provisions of Bihar Panchayat Election Rules, officials said. “All panchayat representatives have to give signed affidavit promising not to drink liquor and indulge in any activity to flout prohibition. In case any representative is found indulging in flouting prohibition, they would face strict action,” said panchayat raj minister Samrat Choudhary. Apart from the oath ceremony, the election of deputy mukhiya/ deputy sarpanch in the gram panchayats and gram kutcheries ( quasi judicial bodies at the gram panchayat level to settle petty disputes) began today in a phased manner in all districts and would continue till December 31. The election for chairperson/deputy chairperson of district boards, the apex level of three-tier rural local bodies, would be held in all 38 districts from 27 December to January 3. The oath to uphold liquor ban comes at a time when the Nitish Kumar government is under pressure, also from allies, to relax the stringent liquor prohibition it imposed in 2016.
24-12-2021||Other||No easing liquor ban: Nitish||Chief minister Nitish Kumar rejected outright ideas and suggestions being made from different quarters that the prohibition law should be relaxed for those coming to the state from outside.“They say we should at least exempt those coming from other states. Do people come to Bihar to drink? Many people are angry with me because I have brought in prohibition,” Kumar said while addressing people at Gopalganj on the second leg of his Samaj Sudhar Yatra (social reforms campaign).“Don’t call it a yatra. A yatra can end but campaign cannot,” he said. “A campaign has been started for drug deaddiction, eradication of dowry system and freedom from child marriage in the society. This campaign will continue in every city, village and town,” he said. There have been fresh demands for exempting “outsiders” from the liquor ban, like in Gujarat, another dry state, in the aftermath of a police overkill to enforce the ban on liquor.Kumar also dismissed suggestions that an exception be made on medical grounds for certified alcoholics, asserting that people spoiled their health by drinking and not by being prevented from doing so.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/no-easing-liquor-ban-nitish-101640361320706.html
24-12-2021||Patna||Bihar forms a dedicated force to deal with attacks on police||The Bihar Police has carved out a new force from its existing strength to deal with the increasing incidents of attacks on police personnel, officials familiar with the matter said. The force, named Vajra, will have a strength of 93-100 in each of the 38 districts in the state and will focus on preventing attacks on police personnel and apprehending the culprits. In the last two years, Bihar has seen 576 incidents of attack on police teams. The decision to form a dedicated force was taken after a recent meeting convened by the chief minister to review law and order. Officials said the recent attack on police personnel in Nawada, in which five policemen were injured while preventing illegal sand mining, was the trigger for the formation of Vajra. In all, 13 accused have been arrested so far in the case.According to figures available with police headquarters, there have been 163 incidents of attack on police this year till August 2021. In 2020, there were 352 such incidents (January to December), a sharp increase from September 2019 since when police headquarters started maintaining separate records of attack on police. In the four months of 2019 from September, there were 61 incidents of attack on police.“There are various reasons for attack on police. Sometimes, police action on wrong information leads to public resentment. Such incidents have seen an increase since imposition of prohibition in the state. People sometimes pass on wrong information to settle personal scores and when police find nothing on the spot, they end up facing hostility. Sometimes, even with correct input, police have to face the ire if the suspect happens to wield local influence or enjoy clout. As the strength of police in rural areas is not that high, they are humiliated and attacked,” said a senior police officer, wishing not to be named.He said Vajra is aimed at dealing with incidents of attack on police and ensure timely assistance to the local administration. Additional director general (law and order) Vinay Kumar said the dedicated force has been given to all the districts as per their requirement. “The local administration has to identify areas that saw maximum number of such incidents and use Vajra to nab culprits. Some people habitually flare up issues by orchestrating attacks on police,” he said.The ADG said wrong information on the call centres and delayed arrival of the force after an incident were two of the biggest reasons behind attacks on police. “All the SPs have been directed to work out a mechanism for using Vajra. If a policeman has been attacked at any place, persons senior to him would go there next time and ensure proper strength,” he said.ADG (headquarters) Jitendra Singh Gangwar said a two-day drive launched with Vajra on Wednesday has led to 504 arrests of suspects so far. “This includes 62 people directly involved in attacks on police and 112 on murder charges. Saran has seen the highest number of arrests (114), followed by Gopalganj (50) and Siwan (43),” he said.Saran superintendent of police Santosh Kumar said Vajra has a strength of 93-100 in the district. “The focus is on nabbing those involved with attack on the police. Besides, it also focuses on those absconding after committing a crime. The team works under the supervision of the subdivisional police officer and is well equipped with 14 vehicles and other equipment,” he said.Meanwhile, former general secretary of Bihar Police Association, K K Jha, said the police faced frequent attacks because they were working under very low morale. “Unless their morale is high, which can happen only when they command respect and they are not used by the powers that be, they can deal with difficult situations and get the support of the society,” he said.Vajra, a force to defend the defendersAbout the forceThe force, named Vajra, will have a strength of 93-100 in each of the 38 districts in the state and will focus on preventing attacks on police personnel and apprehending the culprits. Behind the moveBihar has seen 576 incidents of attack on police teams since September 2019, when the police headquarters started maintaining a separate records of attack on the men and women in khaki.
24-12-2021||Patna||5 newly elected mukhiyas killed so far in Bihar||Five newly elected village heads (mukhiya) have been killed since the 2021 panchayat polls and results in Bihar, the latest in a village in Munger district late Thursday night hours before the elected representatives were to take oath on Friday. According to locals, Maoists had warned Parmanand Tuddu, newly elected mukhiya of Azimganj panchayat under Dharhara police station in Munger district, not to file nomination, but he did and also won. On Thursday night, the assailants dragged him out of his house in Mathura village and slit his throat.Rohit Kumar, station house officer (SHO) of Dharhara police station, told HT that Tuddu was killed with a sharp-edged weapon.Additional superintendent of police (operation) of Munger district, Kunal Kumar, said security forces have launched a manhunt. He said Maoist commander Suresh Koda had, on October 13, threatened Tuddu of dire consequences if he fought the election.
24-12-2021||Lucknow||Govt spending ₹12000 crore annually on rail projects in UP: Minister||GORAKHPUR/VARANASI Union railways minister Ashwini Vaishnaw on Friday said the present government was spending ₹12,000 crore annually for the development of railway projects in Uttar Pradesh as against ₹1,100 crore by the previous governments. The minister was chairing a meeting with representatives of public and railway officers to resolve problems arising during the execution of rail projects. The meeting was held at Banaras Locomotive Works (BLW) in Varanasi. He also laid emphasis on high quality and capacity enhancement of diesel and electric engines being produced by the BLW.Addressing railway officials, he said the problems raised by the public representatives should be resolved immediately as per the rules.The minister also took stock of various developmental rail projects and their actual progress and came to know about various issues and demands of public representatives.North Eastern Railway GM Vinay Kumar Tripathi said various rail projects had been completed for the development of Varanasi area and works were in full-swing on the remaining projects. These projects would provide excellent passenger amenities to public.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/govt-spending-12000-crore-annually-on-rail-projects-in-up-minister-101640360481068.html
24-12-2021||Mumbai||BMC makes 7-day home quarantine must for all arrivals from Dubai; 673 Covid cases recorded||The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) on Friday issued guidelines for all passengers arriving in Mumbai from Dubai in view of the threat posed by the Omicron variant of Covid-19.Issuing an order, the BMC said that residents of Mumbai coming back to the city from Dubai will have to undergo a mandatory 7-day home quarantine with an RT-PCR test on the seventh day.Also Read| 9-6 night curbs in Maharashtra amid Omicron spread, cap on wedding guestsSuch passengers will not have to undergo an RT-PCR test on arrival.“All the travellers arriving from Dubai who are residents of Mumbai will be in-home quarantine and will be followed by the Ward War Room for seven days. On the seventh day, RT-PCR test will be done,” the BMC said.The Mumbai civic body added that if the test results are negative, then such travellers will self-monitor their health. But if the results are positive, they will be sent to institutional quarantine.Omicron | All international passengers arriving from Dubai who are Mumbai residents to compulsorily undergo 7-day home quarantine, RT-PCR on Day7; Intn'l arrivals residing in other parts of Maharashtra not allowed to take public transport, vehicles will be arranged for them:BMC pic.twitter.com/PAi6nzOm8kMeanwhile, passengers coming from Dubai who are residing in other parts of Maharashtra are not allowed to take public transports back home and vehicles will be arranged for them, the BMC said in the order.Also Read| 3rd Covid wave in India likely to peak by February 3, projects IIT-Kanpur study“Travellers who have connecting flights to other states or other parts of Maharashtra will be allowed to take the connecting flights. However, it is the responsibility of the airport authority to inform the respective airport officer regarding the travellers arriving from Dubai,” the order added.Till now, Mumbai has recorded 46 cases of Omicron with 11 more patients getting infected with the variant. In Maharashtra, the Omicron count has crossed the 100-mark after 23 cases were recorded on Friday.Nearly 770,000 patients have tested positive for Covid-19 in Mumbai till now and 16,368 have died. On Friday, the city's daily tally saw a slight surge with 673 new cases and one more patient died.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/bmc-makes-7-day-home-quarantine-must-for-all-arrivals-from-dubai-101640356340139.html
24-12-2021||Lucknow||Uttar Pradesh assembly polls: Appropriate decision to be taken after visit to state, says CEC||Amid three back-to-back developments that have triggered speculation about postponement of the Uttar Pradesh assembly polls in view of Omicron threat, the Election Commission of India will start its three-day visit to the state next week to assess the situation and review the poll preparations and chief election commissioner (CEC) Sushil Chandra on Friday said in Dehradun that an appropriate decision will be taken after his UP visit next week.While the political parties in the state gave mixed reactions to the speculation, the state government said it’s up to the central government and ECI.On Thursday, Prime Minister Narendra Modi held a high-level meeting, especially over a gradual rise in Omicron (a variant of coronavirus) cases in the country. The same day, the Allahabad high court requested Prime Minister Modi and the Election Commission of India to consider postponement of the UP assembly elections for one or two months, given the rising Omicron cases in the country. The high court also requested the ECI to stop political rallies. The third development came in the form of Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath ordering reintroduction of night curfew (11pm to 5am) across the state from Saturday (December 25).All these three moves have triggered widespread speculation about the likelihood of poll postponement.A senior state government officer said: “It’s for the central government and ECI to decide on the state elections. We will do as told (by them).”In reply to a question, CEC Sushil Chandra said to reporters in Dehradun: “I will be visiting UP next week. An appropriate decision, as required by the situation, will be taken after we review it.”The CEC was asked whether deferment of polls was possible as the bench of Justice Shekhar Yadav of the Allahabad high court had on Thursday expressed concern over the rising cases of the Omicron variant of the coronavirus while requesting the PM and ECI to consider postponing the UP polls for a month or two.The full bench of the Election Commission of India is slated to begin its three-day visit to Uttar Pradesh on December 28.On the Uttarakhand situation, CEC Sushil Chandra said he had asked chief secretary SS Sandhu about Omicron cases in the state and was told that there was only one case of the latest variant of Covid-19 there. UP, Uttarakhand, Punjab, Goa, and Manipur are scheduled to go to the polls together early next year.The CEC also spoke of various safeguards taken by the commission due to Covid but sought to assure that whatever is required will be done as per the “Constitutional position” to check the spread of the virus.While Samajwadi Party favoured polls on schedule, the Congress supported deferment. The Rashtriya Lok Dal said the BJP may want to buy time for a damage control exercise in the state.Congress spokesperson Zishan Haider said: “Elections should be postponed. But this government will not let it happen and it will not stop its poll machine. This is what this government did with the Bengal (West Bengal) assembly elections and UP panchayat polls — both were held amid the deadly second wave of the pandemic.”“Imagine, on the one hand, the government has announced night curfew, but there is no stopping the Modi, Yog rallies during the days,” he added.Samajwadi Party MLC Udaiveer Singh said: “The polls should and can be held on time.”Rashtriya Lok Dal (RLD) spokesperson Anupam Mishra said: “It is the failure of PM Modi and his government. And even if the situation is so sensitive, there is no stopping the rallies of BJP leaders in the state.” “BJP may use Omicron to buy some time to do damage control,” he added.(With PTI inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/uttar-pradesh-assembly-polls-appropriate-decision-to-be-taken-after-visit-to-state-says-cec-101640358860950.html
24-12-2021||Mumbai||Christmas celebrations in Thane, Navi Mumbai with all Covid protocols in place||Following the recent State government guidelines, churches in Thane and Navi Mumbai conducted Christmas Eve mass with half the capacity. While shops and home chefs selling Christmas goodies were loaded with orders this year unlike last year, markets also saw many shoppers as the holiday season coincided with the weekend.“We have issued passes for the night vigil. Only those who are fully vaccinated were allowed to attend the Christmas eve mass and the morning after. We ensure to follow all Covid protocols and provide sanitation facilities within the church,” said Father Venancio Mascarenhas, Parish priest, St Joseph’s Church, CBD Belapur.Similarly, at St John the Baptist Church in Thane, there were mass at different time schedules through the day so that more people could visit the church. At the same time, all Covid protocols were in place.Shops and market areas saw huge crowds with people purchasing Christmas decorative materials and goodies.“Last year, owing to the pandemic, there were many who preferred either low-key celebrations or tried making traditional sweets at home for Christmas. We hardly got any orders. However, this year, there is a huge demand for cakes and goodies,” said Roxanne Lewis, a 25-year-old resident of Thane.Meanwhile, the students of Kalyan’s Zilla Parishad School in Manivali celebrated Christmas in a different spirit. Instead of using plastic Santa masks, they made use of clay or mud to mould Santa masks. They painted it and used them as masks in the Christmas spirit. “It was a fun experiment. We realised that this clay could be easily moulded and used for different activities. We were also taught how we should avoid plastic usage and stick to natural elements,” said Sanchit Pawar, student of Class 6 at Manivali Zilla Parishad School.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/christmas-celebrations-in-thane-navi-mumbai-with-all-covid-protocols-in-place-101640358504137.html
24-12-2021||Pune||Rise in air pollution increases COPD cases in Pune||Pune: As cooler winds continue in the city, many areas report poor air quality during the day. As a result, there is a rise in asthmatic and chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) complaints. Shivajinagar, Bhosari, Alandi and other parts of Pune city reported poor air quality during morning hours. The air quality index (AQI) worsens by evening with more road traffic. As per data furnished by System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting and Research (SAFAR), the air quality for Pune city on Friday evening was moderate. However, Shivajinagar reported poor air quality with PM2.5 particles at 201 and the air quality for December 25 is likely to remain poor as forecasted by Safar. Along with Shivajinagar, Nigdi and Bhosari also reported poor air quality on Friday. Lohegaon, Alandi, Kothrud, Katraj, Hadapsar and Bhumkar chowk in Wakad reported moderate air quality. Pashan reported satisfactory air quality on Friday. Speaking about the rise in cases of asthma and COPD, Dr Sushrut Ganpule, consultant pulmonologist with Jupiter Hospital in Pune, said there are about 20 per cent more cases of asthma and bronchospasm. “During winter there is an increase in cases of asthma and COPD due to reduction in day and night temperatures and other reasons and conditions lead to enhanced symptoms of asthma and COPD. Winter is also the flowering season because of which it is more likely to affect asthma patients. Temperature and other factors can act as triggers for patients and lead some of them to have induced attacks,” said Dr Ganpule. He said that because of low day and night temperatures, the air quality is also poor which may affect patients. “The air has more PM 2.5 particles and they affect patients as air quality deteriorates. Smog can also affect asthma and COPD patients a lot,” said Dr Ganpule. Speaking about the relation between cold and poor air quality, scientist from Indian Institute of Tropical Meteorology (IITM) said that as night temperature drops the pollution particles start settling down. “As they settle at lower levels of the atmosphere along with the pollution generated by vehicles, it overall affects the air quality further. This is a normal phenomenon during winter,” said officials from IITM. As per the India Meteorological Department (IMD), the day and night temperature are likely to see a rise in the next few days. Lung installation to check pollution To spread awareness about air pollution and its impact on health, Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) in collaboration with NGO Parisar will install a replica of lungs at Sambhaji Garden on December 27. The replica will be installed with sensors to measure the pollution and its impact. Depending on air quality and pollution, the lungs will turn black with passage of time.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/rise-in-air-pollution-increases-copd-cases-in-pune-101640357181841.html
24-12-2021||Pune||Pune sports event organisers take extra precautions to keep Omicron threat at bay||PUNE Sports tournaments which have started to pick up in the city since October after a gap of 18 months have again come under threat due to the rise in Omicron cases.Organisers are in trouble as they have to deal with the additional pressure of managing things according to a new set of restrictions which is increasing the financial burden to them. Players also have to deal with tough times as they have to rework their plans.The city hosted a senior national hockey tournament at Major Dhyan Chand hockey stadium in Pimpri last week while a prominent tennis club in the city – Deccan Gymkhana has hosted two ITF tennis tournaments and currently, they are hosting the 20th edition of the NECC Deccan ITF $25000 Women’s tennis tournament.Along with national and international tournaments – district tournaments of basketball, football and cricket are also underway in the city.“Even before the start of the tennis tournaments – we had been strictly following Covid-19 norms and regulation. In the first two tournaments (ITF Grade 3 and B1 Asian Junior Championship) we had allowed the audience to watch the match but now in the last tournament we are not allowing the audience in the stadium,” explained Ashwin Girme, secretary of the tennis department at the Deccan Gymkhana.The organisers have made an additional bio-bubble for the women’s tournament with players from Japan, the Czech Republic, Latvia and Kazakhstan participating in the tournament.“Majority of players are staying in Deccan Gymkhana hotel. We are taking care that there is no breach of the bio bubble and we are not allowing any outsiders near the courts. Even the ball boys and other supporting staff are doing regular RT-PCR tests during the tournaments even if they have completed the double vaccination,” said Girme.From October, Pune District Basketball Association have conducted ten age-group tournaments in the city and none of them has tested positive for the virus.“All our activities are going like it was placed earlier, even basketball nationals are ongoing at Indore. Practices in major clubs are going and we hope to continue in the same way,” said Lalit Nahata, vice-president of Pune District Basketball Association.Dashrath Birhamane, a basketball coach, said, “All the players are strictly following Covid-19 protocols when they are not on the court so management becomes easy for us. Players are enjoying regular practice hours.”City-based tennis player Vaishnavi Adkar who has participated in three ITF tournaments one each in Guwahati, Delhi and Pune, said, “The organisers are following Covid-19 norms strictly and players from all the state are supporting them equally. I just hope Omicron does not spoil future tennis tournaments across the country.”As of now, the district administration has not put any additional restrictions on sports activities in the city.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pune-sports-event-organisers-take-extra-precautions-to-keep-omicron-threat-at-bay-101640356880379.html
24-12-2021||Pune||4 pistol fire related killings reported in Pune in two months||PUNE The Pune metropolitan region has witnessed at least four pistol fire related killings since October 22 this year, according to data provided by police.The brutal killing of wrestler Nagesh Karale in Chakan by unidentified assailants on Friday night (December 24) has brought to light as many as four firing incidents in the city which has seen deaths of at least four history sheeters including a builder in the recent past.Two persons including Santosh Jagtap a criminal on the records of the district rural police died due to multiple bullet injuries as members of rival gangs exchanged fire in front of Hotel Sonai at Talawade chowk in Uruli Kanchan on the Pune-Solapur highway around 2.30 pm on October 22. His rival Swagat Khaire died in a retaliatory fire during the incident.On November 28, the Warje Police arrested two persons for opening fire on an unemployed man during the early morning. The two persons were testing the firearm when the bullet went off suddenly and hit the victim.On December 6, a local builder Sameer Shaikh alias Lalbadshah Husain Manoor ( 32) was shot dead on a crowded road in the Katraj area by four men who later escaped on a two-wheeler. Within hours, police arrested all the four assailants including the one to whom Shaikh is suspected to have a financial dispute. The accused arrested were identified as Mehboob Saifan Bulargi, 33, to whom Shaikh allegedly owed money, a minor boy claiming to be 17 years of age, and two men identified as Nilesh Sunil Kumbhar, 30, and Sufian Faiyaz Chauri, 19. An illegal weapon was recovered from their possession.On December 18, two criminals on police records, fired four rounds at Yogesh Jagtap (36), a resident of Sangvi, at 10.30 am at the busy Katepuram Chowk in Pimple Gurav owing to long-standing rivalry. Jagtap who was also a criminal on police records died while recuperating in a private hospital in Pimpri. The duo’s act was captured live on the CCTV camera.The Pune police arrested six people and recovered 18 firearms and 27 live cartridges in a raid conducted in Fursungi, Hadapsar wherein six persons were arrested in September 2020. Deputy commissioner of police (crime ) Sriniwas Ghadge, said, “We are taking strict action against the organised crime syndicates and most of the firing incidents which take place in the city are due to personal rivalries amongst gangs and individuals.”The Pune police have lodged a record high 62 Maharashtra Control of Organised Crime Act (Mcoca) till date thus creating a new record of the most cases lodged by a commissionerate in one year in Maharashtra. Police commissioner Amitabh Gupta had earlier said, “The action against organised crime will continue and we have issued a warning to all the criminals that strict action will be taken against them if they disturb the law and order. The police are keeping a close watch on the criminals and their operations across Pune.”The crackdown against organised crime syndicates by the Pune police commissionerate began after the police received criticism from deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar over the massive car rally carried out by the supporters of gangster Gaja Marne following his release from Taloja prison in February this year. According to data shared by city police, as many as 400 criminals owing allegiance to different gangs have been behind bars ever since the crackdown.Firing incidentsOctober 22: Two persons including Santosh Jagtap a criminal on the records of the district rural police died due to multiple bullet injuries as members of rival gangs exchanged fire in front of Hotel Sonai at Talawade chowk in Uruli Kanchan on the Pune-Solapur highway around 2.30 pmNovember 28: Warje Police arrested two persons for opening fire on an unemployed man during the early morning. The two persons were testing the firearm when the bullet went off suddenly and hit the victim.December 6: A local builder Sameer Shaikh alias Lalbadshah Husain Manoor ( 32) was shot dead on a crowded road in the Katraj area by four men. December 18: Two criminals on police records, fired four rounds at Yogesh Jagtap (36), a resident of Sangvi, at 10.30 am at the busy Katepuram Chowk in Pimple Gurav owing to long-standing rivalry.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/4-pistol-fire-related-killings-reported-in-pune-in-two-months-101640356700505.html
24-12-2021||Mumbai||Two held for posing as god-men and duping women in eastern suburbs||MUMBAI: Police on Thursday arrested two self-proclaimed god-men who used to enter homes seeking alms, and extract money and gold ornaments from unsuspecting women in the name of performing prayers to solve their problems. The duo are part of a six-member gang, which has duped around 50 women in the eastern suburbs.According to the police, the cheating came to light on December 18 when a woman approached them claiming that a man dressed as a sadhu entered her house when she was alone and made her give him her mangalsutra worth Rs75,000 and Rs28,000 in cash after promising to perform prayers for her betterment. Sometime after the sadhu left, the victim realised she had been swindled and approached the police and lodged a complaint.Suhas Kamble, senior police inspector at Pantnagar police station, said that they scanned the CCTV footage around the victim’s house and over the next five days, rounded up 60 men dressed as sadhus in the eastern suburbs of Mumbai who were begging for alms in residential areas. After questioning them, the police found that a gang of self-proclaimed god-men hailing from Nashik and Jalgaon districts were roaming around in the area. “We then alerted our informers who gave us the mobile number of one of the suspects. Our officers traced the accused to Ghoti in Nashik district,” said Kamble. The police officers then laid a trap near the toll booth at Ghoti and arrested Bharat Chauhan, 33, who was roaming around dressed as a sadhu. Upon questioning by the police, Bharat Chauhan revealed that his accomplice identified as Yogesh Chauhan, 36, was in Mumbai. Based on Bharat Chauhan’s detailed tip, the police officers traced Yogesh Chauhan and arrested him from Ghatkopar on Thursday. The police claimed to have recovered the victim‘s gold mangalsutra from Yogesh Chauhan.“We have arrested the two men for cheating under section 420 of the Indian Penal Code (IPC). The two men have revealed that they are part of a gang, comprising four more members, and that they have cheated more than 50 women in Mumbai’s eastern suburbs since January 2021,” said Kamble. The police are now trying to trace other members of the gang.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/two-held-for-posing-as-god-men-and-duping-women-in-eastern-suburbs-101640356524706.html
24-12-2021||Mumbai||Thane district jabs 6 lakh with first dose of vaccination against Covid in last one month||In the last one month, the Thane district has managed to vaccinate only around 35.29% or around six lakh beneficiaries with the first dose of the vaccine. The district continues to have around 11 lakh people who have not taken a single jab of the anti-Covid vaccine.From among the 11 lakh not vaccinated, around 60% comprises urban population and the rest belong to the rural population. However, the district authorities claim that as there are many within the district who could have been vaccinated from Mumbai, the number of people without the first dose of the vaccination continues to be high.“Thane district has a huge number of people travelling to Mumbai on a regular basis. There is a possibility that they got vaccinated in Mumbai. As we do not have any data to match that, we assume that the actual figures of those who have taken the first dose could be more than what we have,” said Dr Anjali Chaudhari, district vaccination officer, Thane.The Thane Civil Hospital falls under the rural vaccination centres list. However, it is located within Thane city. Most of the people visiting the centre include the urban population. Hence, there could be a possibility that the number of vaccinated people within the urban population is much more than what the data shows.Overall, around 1.06 crore vaccine doses have been administered within the district. This includes 62.15 lakh who have taken the first jab and 44.46 lakh who have been fully vaccinated. This comprises hardly 62% who have taken the first dose of vaccine till now across the district.In mid- November, the district had around 17 lakh beneficiaries who had not taken a single jab. By the first week of December, there were 13 lakh left to take the first dose and now the district continues to have 11 lakh non-vaccinated population. This shows that in the last one month, hardly 35% have been vaccinated with the first jab.Manish Renge, district health officer, said, “We have a mobile vaccination unit that caters to villages without easy access to Public Health Centres. Moreover, we have started vaccination sessions in the evening as well to cater to the daily wage workers returning home after work. Our team is also identifying extremely remote villages and conducting mass vaccination drives in these areas. We also have regular awareness programmes.”The district continues to have around 60% of the 11 lakh non-vaccinated from urban areas of the Thane district.“Our team in urban pockets have heard of umpteen excuses like ‘the Covid wave has subsided’, ‘we do not step outside our homes much’ and ‘despite getting the vaccine, people are getting infected, then why to get vaccinated’. We are using various means to create awareness in such pockets and highlight the benefits of getting vaccinated. We also include those who have been vaccinated in our awareness programmes,” said an officer from Thane district.“We are also focusing on the semi-urban population within the district. Areas like Ambernath, Badlapur and parts of Bhiwandi are having various awareness initiatives. All local authorities have to identify pockets with fewer vaccinations,” said Rajesh Narvekar, Collector, Thane district.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/thane-district-jabs-6-lakh-with-first-dose-of-vaccination-against-covid-in-last-one-month-101640355984270.html
24-12-2021||Mumbai||Devendra Fadnavis our star witness: Mumbai cyber cell tells court||Mumbai Mumbai cyber cell on Friday informed the Esplanade metropolitan magistrate court that opposition leader Devendra Fadnavis was their “star witness” in the State Intelligence Department (SID) paper leaks case involving IPS officer Rashmi Shukla. Although, they added that the BJP leader and former chief minister haven’t so far responded to their letters.The ACMM court is likely to pass orders on the state government’s plea on December 28.Sudhir Bhajipale, an additional chief metropolitan magistrate (ACMM), was hearing an application filed by the state government, seeking documents and technical evidence from the Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA). In a press conference on March 23, 2021, Fadnavis alleged rampant corruption in transfers and postings of police officers in Maharashtra. He also pointed out certain documents and reports prepared by the then SID commissioner, Rashmi Shukla, in support of his allegations. He claimed that the state did not act on the report and therefore, he was going to hand over the entire material, including a pen drive, to the MHA. Mumbai cyber cell has sought the material provided by Fadnavis to the MHA. “Our investigation has progressed now. To find out the source from where the data was leaked, we need to get hold of the documents that were leaked. We have written letters from May to September to MHA demanding the documents and gadgets to be handed over to us. However, we have not received any reply,” said special prosecutor Ajay Misar, who appeared for the cyber cell. On Friday, ACMM Bhajipale enquired with Misar as to on what basis they were saying that the documents and the pen drive were with Fadnavis. “We have information that Devendra Fadnavis handed over the documents to Union Home Secretary, as he told a TV channel about it,” Misar replied, referencing the BJP leader’s interview of March 23 to a Marathi news channel. Assistant commissioner of police Nitin Jadhav of the Cyber Cell then informed the court that they have already written to the Opposition leader four times and received only one reply, which said that he will soon hand them over. “He is our star witness, as he only can tell us more about the person who handed him the documents and the pen drive,” Misar said. Advocate Shreeram Shirsath, who appeared for the MHA, opposed the application as vague and untenable. “They will have to clearly identify the documents, show by some credible proof that the documents are in possession of the said party,” said Shirsath. It has also to be borne in mind that the home secretary is not an accused in the case, he said adding that the state’s application does not specify the documents. Mumbai cyber cell has registered the FIR on March 26 on the basis of complaint lodged by an assistant commissioner, SID against unknown persons for leaking a classified report that IPS officer Rashmi Shukla prepared and which contained details of some private individuals, who acted as brokers for facilitating transfers and securing desired postings for senior police officers in lieu of money and by using their political connection. The August 2020 report also contained the names of six IPS and 23 state service officers who were in touch with the brokers. The report also mentioned how some transfers took place due to political influence. Police officials claim that Shukla, the then SID commissioner and presently posted at Hyderabad as additional director general of Central Reserve Police Force, South Zone, had copied the report on three pen drives, while two of them have been recovered by the cyber cell, the third one was sent by Fadnavis to the Union Home Secretary.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/devendra-fadnavis-our-star-witness-mumbai-cyber-cell-tells-court-101640355200440.html
24-12-2021||Chandigarh||Rijiju visits Ludhiana court blast site, says Centre, Punjab working together for in-depth probe||Union law and justice minister Kiren Rijiju on Friday visited the Ludhiana district court complex that was rocked by a bomb blast a day earlier and said the Centre and the state are working together to ensure strong action against domestic and foreign elements trying to disrupt peace and harmony. Also read: Ludhiana blast victim identified; former cop who had links to drug networkRijiju said central and state agencies are already conducting an in-depth probe into the incident that left one person dead and six people injured, prompting the Punjab government to declare a high alert. Police suspect that the man killed in the blast on the second-floor toilet was trying to assemble or plant the explosive device. Talking to reporters, Rijiju said he had spoken to Punjab chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi and it was decided that the central and state agencies will jointly probe the matter. He said the aim of his visit was to assure the people of Ludhiana and Punjab that by launching a coordinated effort, the incident will be thoroughly probed. He also conveyed the empathy and support of Prime Minister Narendra Modi to the blast victims and the people of Punjab. The Centre and the state should have one voice on such sensitive issues, Rijiju said. In reply to a question that some political leaders in poll-bound Punjab were speaking in different voices on this incident, Rijiju said, “It is unfortunate, we are responsible people. We should speak responsibly. Politics should be the last resort.” Rijiju was accompanied by Union minister of state Som Prakash and National Commission for Scheduled Castes chairperson Vijay Sampla. They also met the injured blast victims in hospital. Rijiju also held an interaction with the district and sessions judge and lawyers. Addressing a press conference in Chandigarh earlier in the day, chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi said his government has sought the Centre’s support to crack the blast case. Channi said he had spoken to home minister Amit Shah hours after the explosion. On Thursday, the chief minister had expressed his apprehension saying the explosion might have been an attempt to create “anarchy” in the state where assembly polls are due early next year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/rijiju-visits-ludhiana-court-blast-site-says-centre-punjab-working-together-for-in-depth-probe-101640354780506.html
24-12-2021||Mumbai||IMA seeks PM Modi’s intervention in resolving delays in PG medical admissions||Mumbai: The Indian Medical Association (IMA) has approached prime minister Narendra Modi requesting his intervention in the postgraduate (PG) medical admissions issue. Constant delays due to the pandemic have left the PG medical colleges without a single first-year admission in 2021. According to IMA, this has resulted in a shortage of 45,000 doctors in the frontline work, while those working are under tremendous stress and overburdened. In a letter to PM Modi on Thursday, IMA wrote, “We have been constantly raising the issue of manpower development in Covid care, particularly in the healthcare delivery system. IMA has been insisting on an entrance exam to be held in January 2021 itself and because of the delay, we worked through the second wave with limited manpower. PG medical admissions are not held, with the limited manpower, it will be difficult to handle the third wave in the country.” For weeks now, resident doctors across the country have been participating in protests to raise objections to the delay in the PG medical admission process. One of the major concerns raised by these doctors has been the extra work being shared by just two batches of resident doctors instead of three. “At a time when the country is witnessing the rise of Omicron, the least that needs to be done is strengthening the health care system and we need all hands on deck,” said a doctor.NEET-PG 2021 exam which should take place in January was postponed to February first, then April this year. It was eventually delayed indefinitely due to increasing cases of Covid-19 registered across the country.The entrance test was finally conducted in the month of September this year, but admissions post the exam has been stayed by the Supreme Court which is currently hearing a series of petitions filed by students questioning the validity of implementation of EWS and OBC quota in All India Quota (AIQ) seats and admissions remain stayed until January 6, 2022.“IMA demands that the reservation policy which is the prerogative of the government should not be mixed with the schedule of counselling and the larger decisions on the issue can be taken at an appropriate time. On behalf of the 3.5 lakh doctors of this country, we request PM Modi to resolve this matter and restore normalcy,” the letter reads. 
24-12-2021||Delhi||Delhi adds 180 new Covid-19 cases, highest single-day spike since June 16||Delhi on Friday saw a spike in its daily tally of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) after 180 new cases were reported in the last 24 hours, pushing the caseload to 1,442,813, according to the health department's bulletin.Friday's case count has been the highest in more than six months. The Capital previously reported 212 cases on June 16.Also Read| Doctors reveal how they have treated Omicron patients in DelhiAs many as 82 patients were discharged in the last 24 hours and the total recoveries have climbed to 1,416,928. No new death was reported and the toll remains unchanged at 25,103. The active cases, meanwhile, stand at 782.On Thursday, the Capital reported 118 cases, 57 discharges and one death.The health department's bulletin also said on Friday that more than 62,000 Covid-19 tests were conducted in the last 24 hours which included 57,583 RT-PCR/CBNAAT/True Nat tests and 5,114 rapid antigen tests.The containment zones in Delhi have increased to 207, the bulletin added.Delhi is currently the second worst-hit state from the Omicron variant of Covid-19 with 67 cases so far. Twenty-three such patients have recovered from the variant.Also Read| Stay at home, Delhi govt strengthening home isolation system: CM KejriwalChief minister Arvind Kejriwal said on Thursday the government has made arrangements in view of the new variant by strengthening the home isolation system and conducting 300,000 tests daily.Kejriwal said that Omicron is mild and there have been fewer hospitalisations and deaths. The chief minister added that the Delhi government is also prepared to handle 100,000 patients daily.As cases of the new variant have been surging in Delhi, the Delhi Disaster Management (DDMA) banned all cultural events and gatherings for Christmas and New Year. However, the DDMA allowed all religious places to remain open for prayers with strict adherence to Covid-19 related protocols such as wearing masks, maintaining social distance, washing and sanitising hands.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-adds-180-new-covid-19-cases-highest-single-day-spike-since-june-16-101640349386562.html
24-12-2021||Mumbai||Man gets life term for killing neighbour who rejected his proposal||Mumbai: A 31-year-old man was sentenced to life by the sessions court for allegedly killing his 24-year-old neighbour after she rejected his marriage proposal. Additional sessions judge B V Wagh sentenced Prasad alias Digambar Vinayak Sawant to life imprisonment after convicting him under section 302 (murder) of the IPC. The court observed that the prosecution has successfully established him guilty by direct evidence and circumstances. “The death of the deceased occurred in peculiar circumstances,” mentioned the court, adding, “It is proved that the accused assaulted her by knife on vital parts of the body like neck and stomach.” The incident had taken place on June 28, 2015, the accused Sawant, a resident of Lalbaug was in love with the deceased, Ekta Talwadkar, a resident of Lower Parel. He had even proposed to her, but his proposal was rejected by the family members of the deceased. On June 28, he took the victim to the J D Ambedkar Marg area in Kalachowkie in central Mumbai and allegedly stabbed her with a knife on her neck and stomach. Later, he surrendered before the Kalachowkie police. Both of them knew each other as they stayed in the same locality in Bhandup. Talwadkar worked with a tours and travels company in Byculla. The prosecution had examined a total of eighteen witnesses to prove its case, including the brother and father of the deceased, two eye-witnesses who saw Sawant stabbing the victim Talwadkar, two police officers who investigated the case, a doctor who carried out the post-mortem on the victim and four panch witnesses. The prosecution had argued after the victim and her family members rejected the marriage proposal, the accused took the deceased out of vengeance and killed her. The prosecution seized the knife used by the accused, also his blood-stained clothes. The prosecution case was supported by two eyewitnesses who saw Sawant stabbing Talwadkar. However, in the defence taken by the accused, one of the witnesses had a criminal record against him and he did not intervene to try to save the deceased nor did he rush her to the hospital after the incident. The witness, according to the claims of the defence lawyer, went to the police station twice but initially did not narrate the incident, whereas the second witness’ statement was recorded after fifteen days of the incident and that he was an interested witness. The defence had further argued the investigation was tainted, as without registering an FIR the police have started an investigation in the case to create fabricated evidence against the accused.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/man-gets-life-term-for-killing-neighbour-who-rejected-his-proposal-101640352500130.html
24-12-2021||Pune||BJP workers to visit 1.5 lakh homes in Pune under “Atal Mission”||Ahead of the municipal elections scheduled earlier next year, the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) workers have planned to visit 1.5 lakh homes and six lakh voters on the occasion of late Atal Bihari Vajpayee’s birth anniversary on Saturday.Jagdish Mulik, BJP’s city unit president, said, “On the occasion of late Atal Bihari Vajpayee’s birth anniversary, the party will undertake the drive under “Atal Mission.” Each party worker will visit at least five homes on the day and brief the families about various works carried out by BJP at the central and municipal level.”Mulik said, “BJP had created a special app for the drive. Once the worker is at a particular home, the party’s control room would be able to get all the information automatically and workers need not manually fill up the details later. Party has given the list of ten homes to each worker and they would need to visit any five. Total 30,000 booth heads and workers will be participating in the drive.”The party workers would hand over the booklet which would have information about works carried away by the party.After finishing home visits, all the party workers would dine together in their respective areas.The former chief minister and union minister Narayan Rane and home minister Amit Shah briefed the workers about the mission.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/bjp-workers-to-visit-1-5-lakh-homes-in-pune-under-atal-mission-101640352201868.html
24-12-2021||Mumbai||TMC traces, tests high-risk contacts of Thane’s first Omicron positive patient||The Thane Municipal Corporation (TMC) has tracked and tested high-risk contacts of the first Omicron positive patient in the city on Friday.The civic body has also traced the cab driver and informed Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation regarding the same.Moreover, neighbours of the positive patient staying on the same floor have also been tested as a precautionary measure.On Thursday, a 40-year-old tested positive for Omicron in the city. The traveller who returned from Ghana had mild symptoms more than a week ago and had tested positive for Covid. He diligently followed all the precautionary measures and the Covid protocols, hence had hardly any high-risk contacts.“He travelled from Mumbai airport to Thane by taxi. We have traced the taxi driver and shared details with BMC as he stays in Mumbai. Although the said patient did not come in contact with any neighbour, we conducted RT-PCR of all those staying on the same floor. The patient’s relatives tested negative and we have also sealed the building as a precautionary measure,” said Dr Prasad Patil, medical officer, TMC.This is the first Omicron positive incident within TMC and the fourth in Thane district. There have been two Omicron positive incidents within Kalyan-Dombivli Municipal Corporation and one in Navi Mumbai Municipal Corporation till now.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/tmc-traces-tests-high-risk-contacts-of-thane-s-first-omicron-positive-patient-101640352200443.html
24-12-2021||Lucknow||Akhilesh promises regular, cheap power supply in Uttar Pradesh||Samajwadi Party (SP) national president Akhilesh Yadav on Friday promised regular and cheap electricity supply for agricultural, domestic and industrial purposes if his party is voted to power in the state. He also hit out at the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) government over the power supply scenario in Uttar Pradesh.In a tweet in Hindi, targeting the BJP government in the state, the former chief minister said: “Had the proposed power plants in Etah and other districts been built, the people of Uttar Pradesh would not have been compelled to buy electricity at the highest rate in the country.” He further wrote, “When the SP government takes over, we reiterate our resolve to provide more relief than anticipated and regular, cheap electricity to agriculture, households, industries and businesses.”Refuting the allegations, UP energy minister Shrikant Sharma, in a tweet, alleged that the previous Samajwadi Party government increased electricity rates by over 60%.There has been “no increase” in electricity rates in the Yogi Adityanath government, Sharma claimed. “Electricity is being provided without any discrimination. Villages are getting more than 54% electricity,” the minister said, according to the news agency PTI.Party MLC has no link with perfume trader: SPThe Samajwadi Party hit out at the BJP governments at the Centre and in the state over the raids by Directorate General of GST Intelligences, leading to the discovery of huge cash on the premises of a paan masala trader and itra (perfume) trader. The party said that this proves how badly demonetisation had failed. The SP also hit out at the BJP for allegedly connecting the perfume trader with an SP MLC.Manish Jagan Agrawal, the digital media coordinator of SP, in a tweet in Hindi, said: “...the cash discovered speaks volumes about the failure of demonetisation.”He also wrote that BJP and media were unnecessarily linking the paan masala trader and perfume trader with the SP and sullying the party’s image. SP MLC Pammi Jain has nothing to do with the perfume trader, the party said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/akhilesh-promises-regular-cheap-power-supply-in-uttar-pradesh-101640351480147.html
24-12-2021||Mumbai||CIDCO to hand over 14 plots in Navi Mumbai to NMMC for disabled persons to set up stalls||The City and Industrial Development Corporation (CIDCO) has decided to hand over 14 plots in six nodes of Navi Mumbai at discounted prices to allow disabled persons to set up their stalls or kiosks. CIDCO will hand over these plots to the Navi Mumbai Municipal Corporation.The Prahar Apang Kranti Sanstha had requested CIDCO and NMMC for stalls/kiosks to be allotted to disabled persons.Accordingly, the NMMC made a request to CIDCO for the allotment of plots for setting up 314 stalls in the NMMC region for the above purpose.CIDCO vice-chairman and managing director, Sanjay Mukherjee, said, “CIDCO has approved the proposal for the allotment of 14 plots in the NMMC region covering a total area of 3503.29sqm at a base price of approximately ₹8.73Cr.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/cidco-to-hand-over-14-plots-in-navi-mumbai-to-nmmc-for-disabled-persons-to-set-up-stalls-101640350219935.html
24-12-2021||Mumbai||Panvel City Municipal Corporation to develop bungalow for mayor in Kharghar||After finalising the plans for its headquarters and developing a bungalow for its commissioner, the Panvel City Municipal Corporation (PCMC) has now decided to develop an official bungalow for its mayor in Kharghar.The City and Industrial Development Corporation (CIDCO) has allotted them a plot measuring 1,800sqm at Sector 21 near Central Park. The PCMC has set aside a budget of ₹17Cr for developing the two-storey building with a basement.Sanjay Katekar, executive engineer of PCMC (project), said, “We had prepared a detailed project report of the bungalow and presented it before the general body a few months ago. The general body approved our plan on December 20. The tendering process will be started in the first week of January and if everything goes according to our plans, the work at the site will be started on February 15.”According to Katekar, the upcoming bungalow will be one of the iconic buildings in the jurisdiction of PCMC. Apart from sufficient rooms for the mayor and his family, the bungalow will also have a hall for conducting meetings. When delegates from other places visit him for different discussions, there will be no dearth of space.“There will also be some landscaping areas outside the bungalow. We will finish both the civil work and the interiors in one-and-a-half years. Thus, we can say that the bungalow will be ready for use by the second half of 2023,” he further said.Last year, the PCMC developed a smaller bungalow for its commissioner at Kharghar Sector 6, spending ₹3.50Cr. That bungalow is now the official residence of the commissioner.After Panvel Municipal Council (the first municipal council of India) was upgraded to a municipal corporation in 2016, 29 revenue villages of Panvel Taluka and the areas that earlier belonged to CIDCO were incorporated in PCMC’s jurisdiction. CIDCO is now transferring the open plots to PCMC for developing its basic infrastructures and other big projects.
24-12-2021||Mumbai||Greens complain of firecrackers to scare birds away Panje wetlands in Uran||In less than a month of opening the tidal water choke points at Panje wetlands in Uran, the greens have complained that the miscreants are at it again, blocking the water flow and setting firecrackers to scare away the migratory birds.In its fresh complaints to Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray and the Bombay High Court-appointed Mangrove Protection and Conservation Committee, NatConnect Foundation drew their attention to the fresh proof of fire crackers and fire at Panje wetlands.Sending the photographs and video shots of the area showing firecrackers, NatConnect director, BN Kumar, described the incident as extremely concerning. This was the second firecracker incident at Panje, he said.Earlier, a couple of uniformed people with identity cards hanging around their necks set fire crackers in broad daylight chasing away the birds present at the wetlands.Kumar filed an RTI application with the government to know the progress of the investigation of that firecracker incident and the urban development department informed him that the issue has been referred to the city planning agency, CIDCO, which in turn asked the police to take action. “But, we have not heard of any action and now we hear about a repeat incident,” Kumar said.In another incident, miscreants blocked the tidal water flow at one of the five inlets. On a complaint from environmentalists Nandakumar Pawar and Kumar, the block was removed. When contacted, CIDCO PRO, Priya Ratambe, said that CIDCO had complained to the police about the earlier sabotage attempt. “We have no information on the recent incident,” she added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/greens-complain-of-firecrackers-to-scare-birds-away-panje-wetlands-in-uran-101640350101479.html
24-12-2021||Mumbai||Navi Mumbai Municipal Corporation starts renovating clock tower near APMC market in Vashi||In an effort to give the clock tower near the APMC market in Vashi an attractive look, the Navi Mumbai Municipal Corporation (NMMC) has started renovating it.The 12m-tall clock tower located at Ramdas Patil Chowk, a cross junction that connects the APMC market with Sion-Panvel Highway, and Palm Beach Road with the Turbhe Bridge, was developed by the civic body in 2018. This is the first and only clock tower in the satellite city.Manoj Patil, executive engineer of NMMC (Turbhe division), said, “Initially, the side roofs of the clock tower were plain and hence its overall appearance was not very attractive. To beautify the tower, we are changing those roofs with sheets that look like Mangalorean tiles. These sheets are a fusion of metal and plastic and hence there will be no need to keep painting them from time to time. Also, they are more durable than the previous ones. The budget for the work is ₹4 lakh and it will be completed within 15 days.”NMMC had drawn flak a few months ago as the clock on the tower was not working for a long time.Patil said, “That happened due to an interruption of electric supply to the tower. Our concerned department later fixed the issue and the clock is working properly now.”
24-12-2021||Mumbai||Cases not affecting matrimonial dispute need not be transferred to family court: HC||Mumbai The Bombay high court (HC) said that cases connected or arising out of a domestic violence (DV) case need not be transferred to the Family Court. In a recent judgement, the HC observed that a summons case, which was filed in connection with non-compliance of orders in the DV case, would not have a direct bearing on the proceedings before the Family Court and hence, it need not be transferred along with the DV case. The single-judge bench of justice C V Bhadang, while hearing the petition of a man who is embroiled in a matrimonial dispute in the Family Court, sought transfer of a domestic violence case filed by his wife was informed by advocate Rohini Amin that in the interest of justice, her client was seeking transfer of the domestic violence case being heard by the magistrate court to the family court. Amin submitted that as the couple had minor twins, litigation between the couple in different courts would delay a decision on the custody of the children and hence in the interest of the well-being of the minors, the HC should order the transfer of all cases between the couple to the family court. The couple had married in 2011 and were blessed with twins in 2015. Thereafter, the relationship went sour and the man moved an application for divorce in the family court alleging mistreatment at the hands of the wife. The woman thereafter filed a domestic violence case and also a POCSO case against the petitioner. She also filed a complaint of non-compliance of an order in the domestic violence case, based on which the magistrate court had initiated a summons case against the husband and his parents. While opposing the transfer of all cases pertaining to the matrimonial dispute and domestic violence, the wife’s counsel advocate Surel Shah stated that as the summons case was to be tried with the DV case, transferring the case to the family court would curtail her right to appeal against the orders of the family court in the DV case. In light of these submissions, Shah sought rejection of the application by the husband. Advocate Harekrishna Mishra for the parents of the husband also opposed the transfer of all cases arising out of the domestic violence case to the family court. After hearing all sides, the bench observed that as the DV case was of civil nature and numerous orders including that of the apex court had held that such cases can be transferred to the Family Court for hearing along with the matrimonial petition, it was not inclined to deny the same. “In my considered view common and connected questions would arise in both (matrimonial petition and domestic violence case) these petitions and therefore it would be appropriate if the proceedings pending before the Metropolitan Magistrate are transferred to the Family Court,” noted the court in its order. However,with regards to the summons case, the bench held that the question which arose was whether there was a breach of the protection order by the petitioner (husband) and the Respondent Nos.3 and 4 (husband’s parents). “Except this, there is no adjudication of any other dispute in the said case arising out of the matrimonial discord between the parties,” noted the bench and hence rejected the submission of the wife to transfer the summons case along with the DV case to the family court. Thereafter, at the request of the wife, the bench stayed the operation of its order for three weeks to enable the wife to decide on the next course of action.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/cases-not-affecting-matrimonial-dispute-need-not-be-transferred-to-family-court-hc-101640349439874.html
24-12-2021||Lucknow||Three schoolgirls crushed to death, 1 hurt in Ayodhya as truck overturns on them||LUCKNOW Three schoolgirls were crushed to death killed and one was seriously injured on Friday morning when a truck overturned on them after hitting a road divider on the national highway under Cantt police station limits of Ayodhya, said SSP (Ayodhya) Shailesh Pandey.The incident occurred near Mirzapur village when the girls were walking towards their school around 7.30 am. Three of them died on the spot while one girl was admitted to the hospital with serious injuries, he said.The SSP said the truck driver was also critically injured in the incident. “A police team is investigating into the circumstances that led to the accident. Action will be taken accordingly,” he added.Chief minister Yogi Adityanath expressed grief over the death of schoolgirls and instructed district officials to provide all possible relief to their families. He announced a compensation of ₹2 lakh each for the families of the deceased and ₹50,000 for the injured.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/three-schoolgirls-crushed-to-death-1-hurt-in-ayodhya-as-truck-overturns-on-them-101640349081452.html
24-12-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh municipal corporation elections see 44% turnout till 3pm||Elections to the Municipal Corporation of Chandigarh passed off peacefully with 44% voter turnout reported till 3pm on Friday. Also read: Farmers’ protest: Probe report into Karnal toll plaza violence to be submitted to CMElection Commission officials said voting, which began at 7.30am on Friday, was peaceful amid tight security and Covid-19 restrictions for 35 MC seats. The voting percentage recorded at 3pm was 44%, while it stood at 25% at noon, the poll officials said, adding that it picked up as the day progressed. It was a slow start in sectors with middle and upper class concentration. However, voting was brisk in colonies and villages on the city’s outskirts, the officials said. Polling continued till 5pm and counting will take place on December 27. An estimated 6,33,475 voters, including 3,01,275 women, were eligible to decide the fate of 203 candidates. Among the high profile residents Chandigarh BJP MP Kirron Kher cast her vote at noon at the Sector 7 polling station. She has specially come from Mumbai, where she is undergoing treatment and recuperating from cancer, to cast her vote. She had skipped the party campaign due to ill-health. Others who cast their vote included former Union minister and Congress leader Pawan Kumar Bansal and former city BJP chief Sanjay Tandon. This time the city is witnessing a three-cornered contest with the entry of the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) in the fray from all 35 wards. In the past, the Congress and the BJP have been the main contenders. A total of 212 polling stations have been set up in different parts of the city. Among the 694 booths, 220 are sensitive. The number of voters per booth would be around 1,000 this time, 400 less than the 2016 elections, due to the Covid protocol. Officials said all voters are being thermally scanned and masks besides sanitisers have been kept at polling stations.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-municipal-corporation-elections-see-44-turnout-till-3pm-101640347762947.html
24-12-2021||Chandigarh||Farmers’ protest: Probe report into Karnal toll plaza violence to be submitted to CM||The Haryana government’s commission of inquiry into the August 28 violence and police lathicharge on protesting farmers at Bastara toll plaza in Karnal is expected to submit its report soon. Also read: ‘More fragile than Kashmir’: Agencies warn of more terror attacks in PunjabJustice SN Aggarwal, a former judge of the Punjab and Haryana high court, is expected to hand over the report to chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar on Friday evening, official sources said. “I’m not in a position to talk about the findings but yes, the report that is about 150 pages will be submitted to chief minister depending on his availability on Friday,” Justice Aggarwal said over phone. The Haryana government had set up the one-man commission of inquiry on September 25 to complete the probe in a month. However, the government extended its term till December 24. The commission inquired into the circumstances that led to the use of police force against the demonstrators. It was tasked to find out the persons responsible for the violence besides the role of then Karnal sub divisional magistrate Ayush Sinha, a 2018-batch IAS officer. Ahead of the BJP’s August 28 programme in Karnal against which the farmers were protesting, Sinha was caught on camera allegedly instructing the police personnel to hit the protesting farmers on the head if they breached the cordon. The IAS officer later said that the video was edited and selective portions of his instructions were shown to create a controversy. Amid the hue and cry, Sinha was transferred and after the commission was set up, he was sent on one-month leave. The lathicharge had led to a standoff between farmer organisations and the state government. Besides farmers, 24 police personnel were also injured in the clash. 
24-12-2021||Delhi||Power plants around Delhi are far from meeting norms to reduce air pollution||NEW DELHI: Six years after the announcement by the environment ministry to impose more stringent norms for coal-based thermal power plants to cut down PM 10, sulphur dioxide (SO2) and oxides of nitrogen (NOx) emissions, only two power plants out of the 12 that currently function within a 300km radius of Delhi have installed devices to control these emissions.
24-12-2021||Bhopal||Dacoit faked identity, lived in house constructed under PM Awas scheme||Madhya Pradesh police arrested a wanted dacoit, named Pintu Kol, from a village where he was living with a fake identity in a house constructed under PM Awas Scheme for the past few years, officials said. Kol was carrying a reward of ₹65,000 in two states Kol, 29, was an active member of Sunder Patel and Balkhadia gang. Police officials said they could identify him because of his amputated foot and subsequently arrested him. “To nab all the dacoits, MP and UP police were holding the special drive. Police received information that a man was living with an amputated foot in Bijhwar village. When the police nabbed him, it was hard to recognise him from his look but his identity was confirmed due to an amputated foot. During an encounter eight years ago, he was shot at in the foot which had to be amputated to save his life,” said Dharamveer Singh Yadav, superintendent of police, Satna. “The dacoit was arrested on Thursday from Rewa where he was living with his changed identity for the past six years. Pintu married a local woman and got a fake Aadhaar Card. His father-in-law received money to construct a house under PM Awas Scheme. Kol was living in his house. He also registered himself under different schemes of the state government to get jobs and free ration,” said the SP. A resident of Manikpur district, Pintu Kol was booked in nine cases in Manikpur, Karvi and Banda districts of Uttar Pradesh and Satna in Madhya Pradesh under charges of murder, kidnapping, extortion and Arms Act. The MP police had declared a reward of ₹15,000 while UP police of ₹50,000 six years ago. Pintu Kol joined the gang of dacoit at the age of 15. He came in contact with the notorious dacoit Dadua alias Shiv Kumar Kurmi, who was synonymous with terror for two decades in the Terai. Pintu Kol used to deliver food and other items for the Dadua gang. After some time, he resorted to criminal activities as part of the Dadua gang. He was a minor when he was apprehended the first time to help the Dadua gang. He was sent to a correction home and soon after his release, he joined the gang of Sunder Patel.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bhopal-news/dacoit-faked-identity-lived-in-house-constructed-under-pm-awas-scheme-101640345720568.html
24-12-2021||Delhi||'Frightening': Delhi HC takes note of Sarojini market crowding viral video||Delhi high court has taken note of the overcrowding video in the Sarojini Nagar market and said that the state of affairs is "frightening" and that a stampede can take place. The court said Covid Or no covid, the situation is eerie. “There can be a stampede where 100 of people can die. And don't say that this is state-managed. 100s of people are pushing each other and there is no control that people have on each other. they are just flowing like a river,” it said.The court also directed the police and authorities to watch the movement of the public who are coming to the market.The court also expressed anguish and said that none of its earlier orders to control crowding in the market has been complied with. "It's been a complete and blatant breach of our orders, " the court said, adding that it sees no reason to say that same is not wilful. #WATCH | The crowd of shoppers swells at Sarojini Market in Delhi as people shop for winters and the festive season. pic.twitter.com/s1en4oelJxA bench of Justice Vipin Sanghi and Justice Jasmeet Singh said both the corporation and the police have ample power under the statute to take action. The court said that despite this, there is absolutely no improvement in the situation on the ground. The court noted that the viral video, where people are being pushed and pulled, due to overcrowding, indicates that the number of vendors has also exceeded the limit of 200 put by the court.According to sources, the LG has advised the police commissioner and divisional commissioner (Revenue) to strictly ensure compliance of Covid-appropriate behaviour in Delhi, in line with the latest DDMA guidelines."Media reports and inputs from the ground point out that markets are overcrowded and there are violations of COVID Appropriate Behaviour (CAB) at all markets, bars and restaurants and other public places, even as the number of positive cases was maintaining a rising trend and positivity rate had risen to 0.29%.All police officers and field functionaries have been directed to immediately ensure strict enforcement of DDMA order dated 15.12.2021, in letter and spirit," an official familiar with the development said.
24-12-2021||Pune||Maharashtra teen murdered by cousin, friend over Instagram status||In a shocking incident, a 17-year-old Maharashtra boy was killed by his cousin brother and his friend after he posted an Instagram status, officials said. The victim, resident of Talegaon Dabhade in Pune district, posted ‘302 100%’ as his Instagram story along with a gun emoji. The status was visible only to his cousin and his friend who thought that he wanted to kill them. The accused murdered the victim on Wednesday at midnight in a pre-emptive attempt to save themselves, officials said. The Police have arrested the duo.Senior police inspector, Talegaon Dabhade police station, Madhukar Sawant, said, “As the boy did not return home, his family members started searching for him. They found his body and informed the police after which an FIR was lodged. One of the accused boys was found at one of the places where the cops carried out the search”.“We interrogated him thoroughly and he confessed to the crime. Both of them have been taken into custody and are being interrogated,” he added. According to the investigating officials, The boy had a scuffle with his cousin and his friend and allegedly beat them up with a bamboo stick a few months back. The issue, however, was resolved. Officials said that the duo got jittery after seeing the boy’s status. When once of them tried to talk to him on phone, he disconnected. The duo wanted to call the boy to a secluded place to kill him.The police said the victim was called near the National Heavy Engineering company. When he reached the spot, he was asked him to take photos of his cousin. While the boy got busy clicking photos, his cousin’s friend attacked his head with a hammer. He sustained a grievous head injury and lay in a pool of blood, police said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/maharashtra-teen-murdered-by-cousin-friend-over-instagram-status-101640344640508.html
24-12-2021||Pune||38-year-old wrestler shot dead in Khed||PUNE A 38-year-old wrestler was shot dead at a busy chowk in Shel Pimpalgaon in Khed taluka on Thursday night.The deceased has been identified as Nagesh Subhash Karale, a resident of Shel Pimpalgaon and investigation is on to nab the accused, Pimpri-Chinchwad police said.According to the Chakan police station under the Pimpri-Chinchwad police commissionerate, the incident took place in Shel Pimpalgaon around 9.05 pm on Thursday. The incident was captured on a CCTV camera. The footage shows that as soon as Karale sits in his four-wheeler, the assailants reach there in a car and pump bullets from all directions.Karale was seriously injured in the incident and was rushed to a private hospital in Chakan where doctors declared him dead.Senior police officials rushed to the spot and teams were formed to trace the attackers.Pimpri-Chinchwad commissionerate has issued an alert to all the police stations to carry out nakabandi to nab the assailants.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/38yearold-wrestler-shot-dead-in-khed-101640344339650.html
24-12-2021||Pune||Global Village Idiot: Christmas helps to remove discrimination, like other festivals||What is truth? What is identity? Is there a value that is universal? Are there boundaries that are not barriers but mere diversity? Why do I like Rudolph when I have never seen a real reindeer? Questions that keep popping into my head every once in a while, but especially in December. Also in December, certain songs start playing in my head of their own accord. One after the other. In the voice of Jim Reeves and Bing Crosby and Ella Fitzgerald. In a loop. A continuous loop. I was six when I started primary school in Bombay, now Mumbai. Well actually, it was called Mumbai then as well. I remember because that’s when I started learning Marathi formally and when we spoke in Marathi, we always referred to the city as Mumbai. In Hindi, it was called Bumbai. I went to St Joseph’s High School in Juhu. To be precise, it was part of the St Joseph’s Church Juhu, which in turn was an integral part of the life of the local community that was part of the St Joseph’s parish. Juhu used to be a quaint area in the 1970s and ‘80s. Little houses, wine shops, a market selling vegetable, meat, and fish, shops selling imported goods, and bakeries dotted the locality. Till this day, I always look for a bakery whenever I come across a church or chapel anywhere in the world. Walking around Juhu, one would come across concrete and wooden crosses with the letters INRI written across. It was many years before I learned that the letters stood for Iēsus Nazarēnus, Rēx Iūdaeōrum (Jesus of Nazareth, King of Jews). But even as a child I knew that 25th of December was Christmas and that it signified the birth anniversary of Jesus. Growing up I was exposed to several different dialects of Marathi and Konkani, spoken by my classmates, friends, teachers and the people I met in Juhu, Santa Cruz and Bandra. It seemed natural that my classmates spoke English as a primary language and spoke Konkani or Marathi, also as primary languages. From the accent or tune of the dialect they spoke and words they used, I placed them to be originally from Goa or Konkan or Mumbai or Pune. The words always intrigued me, especially the ones which didn’t seem to have a similar source no matter how much of the language I used. So, I read and asked and thought and it was years later in history that I found some answers. Like batata. Turns out this Marathi and Konkani word came to us from the Portuguese, who introduced potatoes to India when they started cultivation along the western coast. (The British later introduced it to Bengal as Alu, from where the word probably entered Bengali and later to the North Indian hill states from where it probably entered Hindi vocabulary). Christmas entered my life in Mumbai, but my first encounter wasn’t at school. I grew up in Santa Cruz, which means Holy Cross in Portuguese. I lived in a housing colony of the Life Insurance Corporation of India and that meant I lived and played with people from different parts of the country and from different financial backgrounds. In the colony, we spoke Hindi mostly. At home, we spoke Bengali. At school, we spoke English and Marathi and a smattering of Konkani. We celebrated every festival irrespective of the religious background and Christmas was a big event. Christmas is a cultural and social celebration for many non-Christian Indians like me. And it is a religious, cultural and social festival for Christians in India. It seemed natural for me to wonder how it was that Christmas and Santa reached me and have stayed with me. The region around Mumbai and the Konkan coast of Maharashtra was inhabited by farmers, agriculturist, fisherfolk for more than two centuries. Historically, the region was part of the ancient Mauryan empire from the second century BCE, and an important Buddhist centre in ancient times. Thereafter it was under the rule of successive Hindu kingdoms till the 13th century. It was then briefly under the Gujarat Sultanate, before the Portuguese empire took control in 1534. When the Portuguese arrived, the region comprised several separate islands along the coast of the Arabian Sea, the prominent ones being Salsette (the largest), and the Seven Islands of Bombaim (Mahim, Parel, Mazagaon, Worli, Isle of Bombay, Colaba, Old Woman’s Island). Salsette is said to have been derived from the Marathi word Sasashti which referred to the 66 original villages on the island. It was the Portuguese who expanded Roman Catholicism in the region, building many of the original churches in and around Mumbai in the next two centuries, apart from hospitals and schools. In 1661, the Portuguese gave the Seven Islands of Bombay to the British as part of the marriage dowry of Catherine of Braganza who married the English king, Charles II. Salsette remained under Portuguese control till 1739 when Peshwa Baji Rao I’s brother Chimaji Appa led the Marathas from Pune to victory and captured the island. The British took control of Salsette from the Marathas in 1774. Over the next 100 years, they reclaimed lands from the sea and connected the islands (including Trombay) to form the landmass that is now Mumbai (city and suburban district). St Joseph’s Church is said to have been established in 1853 in Juvem on Salsette island (Juvem was the Portuguese name for Juhu). The high school was established in 1905, and I studied there from 1976 to 1984. Many of my St Joseph’s classmates from the local Juhu area were probably descendants of the original East Indian Catholics, the local Marathi and Konkani speaking communities that embraced Roman Catholic Christianity in the 16th century and thereafter. It was at St Joseph’s that I first met Santa Claus, at the 1976 school Christmas celebrations. Protestant/ reformist perspectives came into my life later in the 1990s and 2000s in Bengaluru, Pune and Cochin. Santa Claus came through to me from America but his journey goes back all the way back to a historical person, the fourth century philanthropist, Saint Nicholas of Myra, a Christian bishop of Greek descent who lived in Myra (now in Turkey) and was famous for his habit of secret gift-giving. Until the Middle Ages, December 6 (the day of his departure) was celebrated as a day for gifting to children. St Nicholas is still celebrated as a great gift-giver all over Western and Central Europe and over the past millennium and a half the historical figure evolved into the kind-hearted Sinterklaas in Dutch and Belgian tradition. Prior to the Christian Era, people of German origins celebrated a winter festival, Yule focused around Odin. There were several Yuletide traditions which are still remembered, including the one of Odin entering the house through the chimney. In the 16th century, the concept of Father Christmas emerged in England along similar lines. In the USA and Canada traditions, Santa is said to live at the North Pole and people leave milk and cookies for Santa to consume when he visits. Eventually all the various traditions merged to form the modern Santa Claus and the date of celebration moved to December 25 to strengthen religious association. Much of the Santa image we celebrate today was the work of creative writers, artists and merchandising. For instance, the 1823 Clement Clarke Moore poem A Visit from St Nicholas introduced the eight fictional reindeer for the sleigh. Rudolph was created by Robert May in 1939. I came across St Nicholas thanks to Doris Day who sang of him in the 1948 album It’s Magic (Ol’ Saint Nicholas). It was, however, James Stewart as Harry Bailey in Frank Capra’s It’s a Wonderful Life who became my beacon and made Christmas a permanent part of my life. So, what is truth? Identity? Does it matter? It all evolves with time. As do values. I love Rudolph as part of the Santa lore because I understand what it means to be an outsider and how Rudolp stands for hope. It doesn’t matter whether I ever see a reindeer or if Santa ever rode a sleigh or came down a chimney or whether people left milk, beer or chai for him since it was all contextual to the region. I loved Christmas as a child because it helped me understand the world and traditions of my classmates and neighbours. I love Christmas now because it is connecting me to a wider world to more people, who are also connecting to my traditions. Like all other festivals in India, Christmas helps us strive to remove discrimination, to respect boundaries that protect diversity of the human experience but break down barriers that separate us. And there’s a hand, my trusty fiere And gie’s a hand o’ thine … We’ll tak a cup o’ kindness yet For auld lang syne Mukherjee, author, learning-tech designer and management consultant, is founder of Mountain Walker and chief strategy advisor, Peak Pacific. He can be reached @ thebengali@icloud.com||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/global-village-idiot-christmas-helps-to-remove-discrimination-like-other-festivals-101640342779638.html
24-12-2021||Gurugram||Gurugram prepares for New Year, Christmas celebrations||A day after Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) banned all Christmas and New Year parties and gatherings in the national Capital in wake of the rise in cases of the Omicron variant of Covid-19, event organisers in Gurugram are gearing up for celebrations as they expect business from neighbouring Delhi.Organisers are promoting Christmas and New Year parties in Gurugram on social media to attract the Delhi crowd. Most Resident Welfare Associations (RWAs) have organised events in their respective areas as well.A larger crowd is expected to join the celebrations in Gurugram after the Haryana government on Wednesday reduced the drinking age in the state from 25 to 21 years, with the state assembly passing an amendment to the Haryana Excise Act.Naman Mehar, the owner of Drunken Botanist in Cyber Hub, said, “We are preparing brews like mango beer, chocolate beer, brown ale, apple cider, and nature-inspired handcrafted cocktails for the night of December 31.”Inderjeet Banga, the owner of Prankster and Pirates of Grill and the head of the Gurugram chapter of the National Restaurant Association of India (NRAI), said they are expecting a large number of party-goers as several people are vaccinated. Restaurant and pub-owners are, therefore, planning to offer major discounts to lure party-goers in the city as well as from Delhi-NCR.However, Ashish Dev Kapoor, founder, Whisky Samba, said that these are very cautious times and the question now is not about the city benefitting because of Delhi cancelling plans. “Responsible restaurants will still ensure safety protocols and not overcrowding,” he said.The district administration said that sector markets, malls, pubs, bars and restaurants have been asked to ensure that people do not violate anti-Covid norms. Special teams have been formed by Gurugram Police to check on people violating the norms.Yash Garg, the deputy commissioner of Gurugram, said that they have not received any directions from the state to cancel programmes planned for December 31. “Orders are initially issued by the state disaster management authority and we pass the orders accordingly. Nothing is clear at the moment but as soon as we receive any notification, we will pass it immediately,” he said.RWAs in the city said they will limit the gathering and will not allow in anyone without a face mask. Also, the volume of the music will be controlled.Amit Jindal, president, RWA, Vipul Greens, said, “We have planned to celebrate New Year Eve inside the complex and are following all Covid-19 protocols. We will also follow administration’s orders issues,” he said.Nilesh Tandon, president of Fresco Apartments’ RWA, Sector 50, said they have planned to cancel their Christmas/New Year events due to the pandemic. “Owing to the increasing number of Covid-19 cases in Gurugram, we continue to avoid holding any fairs or fun activities in Fresco till the situation improves,” he said.A few other RWAs have cancelled their programme following Delhi orders.Rajeev Asthana, general secretary, Orchid Petals residents’ welfare association, said that their plan is not final yet.Harleen Singh, club manager of Central Park Resorts, Sector 48, said that they have called a renowned singer to perform on New Year’s Eve. “Since the outbreak of Covid-19, people do not prefer stepping out and want to celebrate in the vicinity of their homes. We have made elaborate arrangements only for residents so that they can enjoy the night with their families and wish their neighbours and friends, but will follow all precautionary measures,” he said.
24-12-2021||Patna||Man arrested for macabre rape, murder of sister-in-law in Bihar’s Muzaffarpur||BETTIAH: A 32-year-old man allegedly murdered his sister-in-law and raped her before and after her death in Bihar’s Muzaffarpur district this week for insulting him in public by slapping him, a police officer said on Friday.Muzaffarpur (East) deputy police superintendent Manoj Pandey said the accused was arrested on Wednesday. “[He] has confessed to having [also] raped her [after her death],” he said. Pandey said the accused beat the victim to death with a stone that was being used as a grinder. “Further investigation into the matter is underway.”The victim suffered injuries on her face and head, while her teeth were broken.A neighbour said they were clueless about the incident “She was alone at her home... she stayed back to take care of her livestock.”The woman’s family was away in Darbhanga as her sister was admitted to a hospital for the delivery of her child. Police said the accused confessed to having killed his sister-in-law on Tuesday for insulting him. “His sister-in-law slapped him in full public view when a village panchayat took up the marital discord between... [him] and his wife... sometime back,” said a police officer, citing the interrogation of the accused.Jayant Kant, a senior police superintendent, said they have recovered the victim’s mobile phone and some jewellery from the possession of the accused. “We have roped in forensic experts for further investigation.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/man-arrested-for-gruesome-rape-murder-of-sister-in-law-in-bihar-s-muzaffarpur-101640340079681.html
24-12-2021||Gurugram||CRPF has played key role in curbing Naxal terrorism: Nityanand Rai||Union minister of state for home affairs Nityanand Rai on Thursday said the Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF) has played a key role in curbing Naxal terrorism and managing the insurgency in Jammu and Kashmir, particularly after the revocation of Article 370 in the state.Lauding CRPF’s role, Rai, who was the chief guest at the passing out parade of the CRPF latest batch at Kadarpur in Gurugram on Thursday, said that almost one-third of the entire force has been deployed in Naxal infested parts of the state. “It is due to the efforts of CRPF that the operational area of Naxalites has reduced considerably. The force also played an important role in reducing terrorism in Jammu and Kashmir and its personnel have shed blood and made supreme sacrifices for the country,” said Rai. In his address, Kuldiep Singh, DG CRPF, reaffirmed the steadfast devotion and commitment of the force towards tackling new and ever-evolving internal security dynamics effectively. Delineating the responsibilities and challenges ahead for these newly passed officers, he also extended best wishes to the officers for their bright future in the force and added that they had been trained in all aspects of internal security, maintaining law and order, meeting terror challenges and were also adept in IT.PK Singh, ADG, director of the academy, administered the oath to the new officers.The 52nd batch comprises 117 directly appointed gazetted officers, including three women officers, from 21 states, said a CRPF spokesperson. Ninety-one of these officers have engineering-related degrees and they underwent a 52-week basic training course, which commenced on November 2 last year. 
24-12-2021||Gurugram||At Gurugram’s Bhondsi jail, inmates play radio jockeys||The Bhondsi jail in Gurugram has opened a radio station ‘Jail Radio’ and has been training prisoners with radio presentation skill programmes, to transform them into professional radio jockeys, for a better future, said officials on Thursday.The prison authorities have turned a room inside the building into a broadcast studio, and the officials reach the inmates through speakers in the barracks. The pilot project, which started in January this year, has been gaining momentum, and a few other prisons across Haryana have been doing the same, they added.The prisoners tune in the radio performances from 7.30am to 11pm, and 4pm to 7pm daily.Muhammad Akil, director general of police (prison), said that setting up ‘Jail Radio’ is a major step towards bringing a positive transformation in the prisoners and also jails, and it is a unique initiative taken by the state government. “Jail Radio programmes are completely focused on the activities within the jail, and the performances are being presented by the inmates only. It is an in-house production, run just by the inmates,” he said.More than 300 inmates had requested the jail authorities to train them as radio jockeys when they heard about the initiative, and the jail superintendent started giving them classes for the same, and 16 out of the 300 applicants were qualified in the first round. Initially, five inmates were trained for ‘Jail Radio’ and they further trained a few more inmates for the same.Apart from the Bhondsi jail, the prison in Rohtak is also becoming popular for its inmates turned radio jockeys. There are more than 20 radio jockeys there, said officials.Akil said that the programmes on songs, news, local folk songs and songs on demand are being aired.. “The project is very useful in these times when we have to create awareness among the inmates. It also has an entertainment quotient. When we want to pass any information , we air it on the radio and it reaches out to all inmates. Also, we make sure important information is passed when there is important or their favourite programms is aired,” said Harinder Singh, Superintendent Jail, Bhondsi. The radio programme is run three hours each in morning and evening, said officials. Akil said that in the middle of the 23 barracks is vocational and training center, with a hidden gem, Jail Radio. “The idea behind this initiative is as a part of vocational training program so that when they are freed from jail they can also try their career in this field apart from other crafts they have learned,” he said. The inmates have already taken part in singing and dancing competitions and have wom several awards for the same. They are also trained with instruments and spend more than four years each in developing a new hobby. A State of Art Studio, just like any modern studio, fitted with high end equipment, acoustic panels to balance the sound quality and motifs and portraits of who’s who of voice world, has been setup. Officials said tt’s a LIVE Radio, whatever is happening inside the radio room is broadcasted live in all barracks of the Jail premises. On a Usual day the Radio Room Broadcast starts at 7.30am to 11am and then another slot between 4pm to 7pm. During the broadcast, the plans and schedule is planned well in advance. The usual schedule includes, Poetry, Raagni, Comedy, Motivational stories, Songs and devotional songs. Further on special days, like Independence Day, October 2, Holi Diwali, the plan is accordingly scheduled to address to festive mood. Apart from Bhondsi, Rohtak jail is also becoming popular for their radio-jockey programmes. There are more than 20 jockeys who are trained in this art, said officials. 
24-12-2021||Delhi||Delhi achieves 100% coverage in 1st dose Covid vaccination to eligible people: CM Kejriwal||The national capital on Friday completed 100% vaccination of its eligible population with the first dose against the coronavirus disease, chief minister Arvind Kejriwal has announced. Coming as a major feat in its immunisation drive, the city has administered 148.33 lakh beneficiaries with the first dose of the jab, as per the announcement."Salute to Doctors, ANMs, teachers, ASHAs, CDVs and all other Frontline workers. Congratulations to DMs, CDMOs, DIOs all-district functionaries," the chief minister tweeted while informing about the milestone.👏👏Delhi completes first dose to 100% eligible people - 148.33 lakhSalute to Doctors, ANMs, Teachers, ASHAs, CDVs and all other Frontline workers. Congratulations to DMs, CDMOs, DIOs and all district functionariesThis comes as the city has been showing early signs of a fresh wave, while the cases of Omicron rises. On Thursday, Delhi recorded 118 fresh Covid cases, and one death, while the positivity rate stood at 0.13 per cent, according to data shared by the city health department.On Wednesday, the city had logged 125 cases of infections, the highest since June 22, while no death due to the coronavirus infection was recorded, as per official figures.According to a report, there has been an increase of 96.7 per cent of Covid-19 patients in Delhi in the last seven days of this month. From December 9 to 15, the administration detected 362 cases and between December 16 to 22, there were 712 patients of the viral disease, a report by HT's sister site Livehindustan said citing data from the health department.Notably, the number of Omicron cases at 67 has also doubled during this period.According to data, the city presently has more than 624 Covid-19 patients. Out of the total Covid-19 patients, 55.2 per cent of the cases are from the south, southeast and southwestern districts alone.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-achieves-100-coverage-in-1st-dose-covid-vaccination-to-eligible-people-101640337895184.html
24-12-2021||Patna||Maoists kill newly elected mukhiya in Bihar’s Munger district, say officials||Parmanand Tuddu, the mukhiya of Azimganj panchayat under Dharhara police station of Bihar’s Munger district, paid a heavy price for disobeying the diktat of the Maoists. Even before he could take an oath of service, he was killed by Maoists, officials said. The Maoists had warned him not to file nomination earlier, but he did, and also won, officials said. Tuddu was scheduled to take oath on Friday. According to the police, Tuddu was dragged out of his house and his throat was slit.It was the fifth killing of a newly elected mukhiya in the state before oath-taking. According to police, the incident took place late on Thursday night in Mathura village.According to eyewitnesses, more than 50 suspected Maoists gathered at Tuddu’s village, surrounded his house and pulled him out shouting slogans. The Maoists slit his throat with a sharp-edged weapon.Tuddu was elected as mukhiya of Azimpur panchayat in the recently held 11-phase election to three-tier Panchayati Raj institutions.Confirming the incident, the station house officer of Dharhara police station Rohit Kumar told HT that the slain mukhiya was attacked by a group of armed men at his native village late on Thursday night.Locals said the ultras issued a warning to Tuddu and also asked the voters to favour a particular candidate Yogendra Koda in the election. The incident has sent shock waves among the newly elected representatives who apprehended more attacks in the near future.Tuddu was said to be popular among the residents for carrying out works in his panchayat. His popularity and people’s support irked the Maoists, who killed him before he could even assume office.The additional SP (operation) of Munger district Kunal Kumar said security forces launched a search operation against the Maoists involved in the murder of a people’s representative. He said that Maoist commander Suresh Koda, on October 13, threatened Tuddu with dire consequences if he fought election.
24-12-2021||Delhi||Why does Delhi continue to operate on a 45-year-old drainage master plan?||NEW DELHI: With many short but intense spells of rainfall, Delhi has witnessed a series of flooding episodes during this year with the highest annual precipitation on record being observed since 1933. Despite the extreme weather events becoming increasingly frequent, Delhi continues to operate on a four-and-a-half-decade-old drainage plan which needs to be urgently upgraded.
24-12-2021||Chandigarh||Kapurthala lynching: Gurdwara caretaker held for murder, CM says no sacrilege||Soon after Punjab chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi announced on Friday that no sacrilege had taken place at the gurdwara in Kapurthala district last Sunday in which a youngster was lynched and a case of murder would be registered against those who committed the crime, the shrine’s caretaker was arrested.Also read: Punjab to waive off debt up to ₹2 lakh for small and marginal farmers“No evidence has been found about sacrilege at the gurdwara in Nizampur village of Kapurthala district. The young man who was killed had not committed any sacrilege. The first information report (FIR) will be amended and a case of murder will be registered ,” Channi said at a press conference in Chandigarh.The Kapurthala police, which had been maintaining that there was “no visible sign” of sacrilege, swung into action and arrested Amarjit Singh, the caretaker of the gurdwara, for murder. The police suspected that the victim, in his twenties, had come to the gurdwara with the intention of committing theft.Amarjit Singh was detained by the Kapurthala police on the day of lynching but was released on Sunday evening to avert a law and order situation. The police had been maintaining since Sunday that there has been no sacrilege and disrespecting of the Nishan Sahib (a Sikh flag) at the gurdwara.Hours after the incident, SSP Harkamalpreet Singh Khakh told the media that no sacrilege had taken place and the youngster was killed by a mob. But, at the press conference convened the same evening by the inspector general, the police retracted its statement.Multiple stab wounds on victim’s bodyOn Thursday, a team of five doctors, entrusted with conducting the post-mortem, found 30 injuries on the body of the victim, who was lynched by Sikh groups on the suspicion of disrespecting the Nishan Sahib, the Sikh flag, at the gurdwara.Officiating senior medical officer (SMO) Narinder Singh said the main injuries were on the neck, hips and the head. “There were multiple stab wounds on the victim’s body. We have collected viscera for further examination to check whether he had consumed any intoxicant. We have also taken samples of his teeth, hair and blood for the DNA test. The exact reason of the death will be clear from the final report,” he added.The body was cremated after the post-mortem when no one came to claim it even after 72 hours.Earlier, the police had registered a case under Section 295-A (hurting religious sentiments) of the Indian Penal Code against the youth on the statement of Amarjit Singh. His claim was, however, found to be contradictory. In a video that surfaced on social media, he admitted that the youth had not committed sacrilege with Guru Granth Sahib and even had food in the gurdwara. In another video, he is heard saying that the suspect was sent “by someone from New Delhi and was given money for executing the desecration”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/kapurthala-lynching-gurdwara-caretaker-held-for-murder-punjab-cm-says-no-sacrilege-101640331138912.html
24-12-2021||Other||Wrestler gunned down in Maharashtra’s Khed||A 38-year-old wrestler was shot dead at a busy chowk in Shel Pimpalgaon in Khed taluka in Maharashtra on Thursday night, officials said. The deceased has been identified as Nagesh Subhash Karale, a resident of Shel Pimpalgaon and investigation is on to nab the accused, Pimpri Chinchwad Police said.According to the Chakan police station under the Pimpri Chinchwad police commissionerate, the incident took place near Milind Beer Shop in Shel Pimpalgaon around 9.05 pm on Thursday. The incident was captured on a CCTV camera. The footage shows that as soon as Karale sat in his four-wheeler, the assailants reached there in a car and pump a hail of bullets from all directions.Karale was seriously injured in the incident and was rushed to a private hospital in Chakan where doctors declared him dead. Senior police officials rushed to the spot and teams were formed to trace the attackers. PCMC commissionerate has issued an alert to all the police stations to carry out nakabandi to nab the assailants.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/wrestler-gunned-down-in-maharashtra-s-khed-101640330779676.html
24-12-2021||Delhi||Delhiites tread with caution amid Covid scare this holiday season||Recent photos and videos of a largely unmasked crowd, pushing each other at Sarojini Nagar Market in the Capital sent shock waves across Delhi. With the rise in Omicron cases, the District Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) issued an order in which they announced that district magistrates shall conduct surprise raids at shops, restaurants and public places, and take strict action against defaulters. Along with following rules such as adhering to only 50% seating capacity at restaurants and no mask no entry rules in shops, here’s how Delhiites are resolving to make amends and be responsible.Celebrations contained at home“There’s nothing more important than making sure that each of us plays our part in avoiding a third wave. My friends and I have cancelled all plans of hanging out and partying together for Christmas and New Years. We will be celebrating with our families at home. Enjoying a bonfire, pizza and a movie marathon at my home with my parents and wishing my friends digitally at midnight is how I’ll spend New Year’s Eve. We had initially planned on taking an outstation trip, but cancelled it. We understand that being doubly vaccinated isn’t enough and adhering to Covid protocols are very important,” says Harsh Bundela, a student of Atma Ram Sanatan Dharma College.Making the most of digital shopping“The temptation to shop when you receive a festive bonus is immense. However, seeing a rise in Omicron cases, I think this is the best time to make use of the steep discounts that online platforms are offering on year end sales. The pleasure of avoiding crowds at shopping complexes and the ease of saving up on travel time is an added advantage. Even when I’m going shopping physically, I never go with my friends and I’m always masked up properly, covering my nose and mouth. Shopkeepers often ask customers to mask up before entering the store, and customers are also being called out if they are trying to loosen their masks,” says Radhika Bakshi, a corporate employee at a multinational company in Delhi.Enjoying outdoors responsibly“Whether it’s going to office, using public transport or going to grab a bite, the responsibility of making the rules set by the DDMA falls on us. We have to help shopkeepers and restauranteurs by following and respecting the rules they ask us to adhere by. To book a reservation prior to avoid queuing outside a restaurant, or to ensure you’re masked up while using your nearest ATM, all of it is actually a responsibility that Delhiites must take up,” says Vishwas Girdher, a student of Hansraj College.No bookings beyond five peopleWith the DDMA not allowing any public gatherings, restaurants are also making sure to avoid overcrowding on tables. “We have a strict rule against big gatherings to the extent that we are not allowing more than five people at a table. That is the maximum number of people who can sit together at one table. Also, once we reach our 50 per cent capacity, we won’t allow anyone else to enter,” says Arjun Dawar, owner of Uncultured Delhi and One Oak.QR coded menus, sanitiser machines, STAFF in PPEVishal Anand, from Farzi Cafe at Aerocity adds, “For the guests, we are checking masks, doing temperature checks and using sanitisers at the entrance. Our staff is fully vaccinated.” Double-vaccinated staff is one thing, some restaurant also has its staff in PPE kits and QR code-based systems menus to ensure safety. Akhil Malik, Director, QDs Hospitality, adds, “To ensure guests feel safe, we are following all relevant protocols.” One Oak and Uncultured Delhi owner Arjun Dawar says, “We have QR code-based system menus and have also kept extra masks and sanitisers at all tables. Whenever a group vacates a table, it will be cleaned well and then completely sanitised using a machine.” Varun Tulli, another restaurant owner adds, “At Tbsp. Tablespoon, the set-up has been done keeping Covid protocols in mind. Social distancing, PPE for waitstaff as well as kitchen staff, and regular sanitization is the non-negotiable mandate. All our staff is double vaccinated.”Author tweets @anjuri @FizzyBuddhaFollow more stories on Facebook and Twitter||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhiites-tread-with-caution-amid-covid-scare-this-holiday-season-101640330119037.html
24-12-2021||Lucknow||Covid-19: UP announces night curfew from tomorrow||Lucknow: Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Friday announced the reintroduction of night curfew from Saturday (11 pm to 5 am) after chairing a Covid-19 review meeting.“In several states of the country, Covid cases are rising and under these circumstances, it is important to take some steps,” a statement quoted Adityanath as saying at the meeting. He directed the reintroduction of restrictions on gathering at weddings and other public events to 200 with adherence to Covid-19 safety protocols.Adityanath asked officials to publicise the “no mask, no shopping” message for traders and shopkeepers. “The shopkeepers should not sell anything to customers without face masks. Police should enhance patrolling, make public address system more effective to publicise safety norms and protocols...mask-wearing must be made mandatory for movement on roads and in markets.”He instructed officers to put in a system to prevent people from entering the state without testing. He also asked for stepping up alertness at the bus, railway stations, and airports.Adityanath said the state has put in place all arrangements in cases there is a third wave of the pandemic. He asked officers concerned to review the arrangements.The statement said Adityanath also asked for reactivation of surveillance committees to track suspected cases.There were 266 active Covid cases in the state on Friday with the detection of 49 fresh infections.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/covid19-up-announces-night-curfew-from-tomorrow-101640327960395.html
24-12-2021||Delhi||Delhi restaurant sealed for large gathering||A restaurant in South Delhi’s Mehrauli was sealed for hosting over 600 people at a time in violation of Covid-19 protocols on Thursday night.This came a day after the Department Of Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) banned New Year and Christmas gatherings amid rising cases of the Omicron variant of Covid-19. DDMA has put a 50% seating capacity cap on restaurants and bars.“As part of a series of inspections conducted in view of latest DDMA orders for prohibiting large congregations and imposing 50% ceiling on total capacity in restaurants and bars, a flying squad team of district South went for a surprise inspection at one of the renowned restaurants in Mehrauli where a large gathering of around 600 persons was found. A club had organised an event in complete violation of prevalent Covid-19 protocols,” said a statement issued after the sealing.Additional deputy police commissioner (south) Harsha Vardhan Mandava said a case has also been registered against the restaurant.The authorities have directed restaurants to follow guidelines and ensure they do not become super spreaders.HT has reached out to the restaurant owner for comments and the story will be updated accordingly.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-restaurant-sealed-for-large-gathering-101640326339991.html
24-12-2021||Delhi||DDA launches special housing scheme. Number of flats, price, location||The Delhi Development Authority (DDA) has launched a new special housing scheme and is offering more than 18,000 flats, which are being drawn from its old inventory, officials have said.The decision to launch a new housing scheme was taken during an online meeting of the DDA on November 24, under the chairmanship of Delhi Lieutenant Governor Anil Baijal, who is also the chairperson of the authority.Officials have said the scheme has been launched online and no formal initiation will take place—the second such scheme of the housing authority this year after the DDA offered one in early 2021. The applications will stay open till January 7 next year.Number of DDA flatsThe DDA is offering 18,335 flats of different categories and they consist of 205 high-income group (HIG) flats, 976 middle-income group (MIG) flats, 11,452 lower-income groups (LIG) flats and 5,702 flats under the EWS/Janata flats category.Also read | DDA approves ownership rights to refugees who came from Pakistan after PartitionA majority of the 18,335 flats, nearly 11,500, are earmarked for LIG and 205 flats up for sale are in the HIG category in Vasant Kunj and Jasola.Location of DDA flatsThe flats located at Dwarka, Narela, Rohini and Jasola, among other places, being offered under this scheme are those which remained "unsold in previous housing schemes" of the urban planning authority.Flats are also available in Jahangirpuri, Rohini, Siraspur, Lok Nayak Puram, Shivani Marg,Price of DDA flatsThe DDA has said the flats will be sold at "discounted prices" and the maximum price of a flat is about ₹2.14 crore in the HIG category in Jasola.While announcing the approval of the new scheme, the DDA said in a statement the flats were being offered at the old rates or cost in relaxation of its costing policy. This policy is updated every financial year based on the appreciation or depreciation of land cost or building.Also read | DDA invites bids for construction of 10,500 EWS flats for slum rehabilitationThe flats at Narela sub-city are being offered after taking several remedial measures in terms of improvement of infrastructure, security and connectivity on the basis of suggestions, feedback of the allottees, and residents of the area, the DDA said.The allottees will be eligible for subsidy under the Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojana of the central government if they avail of a home loan from a bank or financial institution.Previous DDA allotmentsOn March 10, the DDA allotted 1,353 flats under its housing scheme launched in January 2021 through a draw of lots streamed online.Out of these, 689 flats were surrendered by allottees, nearly 50 per cent of the total inventory under the scheme with Covid-19 and other factors being attributed by officials for such a large number of flats being given up.In August, the DDA held a draw for 689 flats under the 2021 housing scheme that were surrendered by allottees, with a meagre 79 waitlisted applicants being allotted units from this lot.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/dda-launches-special-housing-scheme-number-of-flats-price-location-101640322564576.html
24-12-2021||Dehradun||Haridwar hate speech: Will not tolerate such incidents, says police chief||Amid outrage over the three-day Dharma Sansad event in Haridwar, in which several speakers allegedly made inflammatory speeches against Muslims, Uttarakhand DGP Ashok Kumar said on Friday that such incidents will not be tolerated in the hill state."Also Read | Videos of 3-day Dharma Sansad in Haridwar spark off controversy“A case under 153A of IPC has been registered. We will do the investigation as per law and such types of incidents will not be tolerated,” the police chief said, according to news agency ANI.
24-12-2021||City||Jammu and Kashmir likely to witness scattered rainfall, snow over next 2 days||Isolated to scattered rainfall and snowfall was very likely in Jammu and Kashmir, Ladakh, Gilgit-Baltistan, Muzaffarabad, and Himachal Pradesh over the next two days, the India Meteorological Department said on Friday. Rainfall was also likely in Punjab, Haryana, and Chandigarh under the influence of a fresh western disturbance as a cyclonic circulation over Jammu and Kashmir. There is also an induced cyclonic circulation over northwest Rajasthan. Another western disturbance is seen as a trough or line of low pressure.A fresh intense western disturbance and its induced cyclonic circulation were very likely to influence northwest India from Sunday and central India from Monday. Under their influence, widespread rainfall/snowfall is very likely in the Western Himalayan region. Isolated heavy rainfall and snowfall in Jammu and Kashmir were likely on Sunday and Monday and in Himachal Pradesh on Monday.There is likely to be a gradual rise in minimum temperatures by 2-4 degrees Celsius in most parts of northwest, east, and central India over the weekend. Dense fog in the morning hours in isolated pockets is likely in Punjab, Haryana, and northeast India.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jammu-and-kashmir-likely-to-witness-scattered-rainfall-snow-over-next-2-days-101640316944970.html
24-12-2021||Delhi||Delhi's air quality remains in 'severe' zone||Delhi's air quality was in the "severe" category on Friday morning as the city was expected to record a minimum temperature of 6 degrees Celsius and a maximum of 24 degrees Celsius. According to the Central Pollution Control Board, the hourly Air Quality Index (AQI) at 7am was 433. The average 24-hour AQI was 423 on Thursday.An AQI between zero and 50 is considered "good", 51 and 100 "satisfactory", 101 and 200 "moderate", 201 and 300 "poor", 301 and 400 "very poor", and 401 and 500 "severe".On Thursday, the System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting and Research said the AQI was in the "very poor" to "severe" category due to low ventilation and relative humidity up to 50%. "Similar condition will further increase AQI on 24th (Friday). Increase ventilation, mixing and moist condition will reduce AQI 25th Dec (Saturday) onwards.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhis-air-quality-remains-in-severe-category-101640315739670.html
24-12-2021||Pune||Police recovered more cash from arrested MSCE commissioner in paper leak case||Pune Police on Thursday claimed to have recovered another ₹25 lakh in cash allegedly belonging to Tukaram Supe, the arrested commissioner of Maharashtra State Council Of Examination (MSEC). Supe has been arrested over alleged tampering of 2020 Teachers' Eligibility Test results. Police have so far recovered over ₹2.80 crore in cash, gold jewellery worth ₹70 lakh and documents related to fixed deposits from Supe and people close to him. "We had appealed people to approach us if Supe had kept unaccounted-for money with them.Today two people came forward and handed over a total of ₹25 lakh which he had kept with them," said Vijay Palsule, Assistant Commissioner of Police (cyber and economic offences wing). Besides Supe, police have already arrested Pritesh Deshmukh, the director of G A Software, the firm which conducted the exam; Abhishek Sawrikar who was a consultant with the education department, and another person. Supe, in connivance with others, allegedly took money to change the results of some candidates so that they could clear the test. In a separate case, two days ago police arrested a former commissioner of MSCE and two others for allegedly tampering with the marks of candidates in the 2018 TET.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/police-recovered-more-cash-from-arrested-msce-commissioner-in-paper-leak-case-101640311548722.html
24-12-2021||Mumbai||Omicron alert in Maharashtra: New guidelines today in view of Christmas, holiday season||Amid growing concerns over Omicron, the highly infectious new variant of the coronavirus, the Maharashtra government will on Friday issue a set of fresh guidelines keeping in mind the upcoming Christmas and New Year's celebrations.The state has recently been reporting a steep hike in coronavirus infections and central government data shows that Maharashtra along with Delhi is among the two regions in the country with the highest number of Omicron cases.The Omicron variant, which is said to also be capable of undergoing frequent and an unusually large number of mutations, has got medical experts and public health professionals across the world concerned over aspects such as its transmissibility, immune system evasion, and vaccine resistance, despite initial reports indicating that the variant causes a less severe disease than previous strains.Also Read | Maharashtra records 23 new cases of Omicron variantAggravating the concerns is the approaching Christmas and holiday season when footfall is likely to go up, raising fears of public spots turning into Covid-19 hotspots.Experts have already warned that the late November to early January period—the holidays— will be an especially crucial time for this new phase of the coronavirus pandemic driven by Omicron, and any unwary activity during the festive season might lead to a revamped wave of the infectious disease.The Maharashtra government will on Friday issue sweeping instructions that cover guidelines related to gatherings at wedding ceremonies in hotels and restaurants. Chief minister Uddhav Thackeray held a virtual meeting on Thursday with the government's Covid-19 task force, where the details of the proposed guidelines were likely to have been discussed.Maharashtra has already issued multiple instructions separately in this regard; prohibitory orders under Section 144 of the Code of Criminal Procedure (CrPC) remain imposed in Mumbai from December 16 to December 31, a period covering Christmas and New Year eve, banning large gatherings and parties common in this time of the year.Also Read | Omicron scare from Delhi to Mumbai; curbs return ahead of Christmas, holiday seasonMoreover, the Pimpri Chinchwad municipal commissioner, in a fresh order, has said that anyone violating the state government's guidelines on Covid-19 will be booked under Section 188 of the Indian Police Code (IPC).As many as 23 new cases of Omicron were reported on Thursday, according to the state's health department, and with this, the tally of such infections in Maharashtra has now gone up to 88.In Maharashtra, about 615 people recovered from the infection during the last 24 hours while 17 people lost their lives to the deadly virus at the same time. With this, the active number of Covid-19 cases in the state has reached 7,897.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/omicron-alert-in-maharashtra-new-guidelines-today-in-view-of-christmas-holiday-season-101640303010631.html
24-12-2021||Dehradun||Haridwar hate speech: Uttarakhand cops file case||Uttarakhand Police filed a criminal case on Thursday over a controversial religious event held in Haridwar last week where speakers allegedly made hate speeches and called for violence against Muslims and Christians.Police said a case was filed under section 153A of the Indian Penal Code (promoting enmity between different groups on grounds of religion, race, place of birth, residence, language) against Jitendra Narayan Tyagi, the former chief of the Uttar Pradesh Shia Waqf board who was earlier known as Waseem Rizvi, and unnamed people.“Taking into account videos going viral on social media that show provocative and hate speeches against particular religions, a case has been filed in Kotwali Haridwar under section 153A against Waseem Rizvi, or Jitendra Narayan Tyagi, and others,” said the tweet.The move came after video clips of speeches at the Dharma Sansad event, held between December 17 and 19, circulated widely on social media and sparked widespread criticism. HT could not independently verify the authenticity of these clips.The clips purportedly showed one of the speakers saying that he wished to become Nathuram Godse, who assassinated MK Gandhi, and shoot former prime minister Manmohan Singh. In another clip, another participant could purportedly be heard warning the Haridwar administration that hotels and establishments holding Christmas celebrations will be vandalised. A third clip purportedly showed the speaker issuing threats of violence against Muslims.Rakinder Singh, in charge of the police station in Kotwali Haridwar, said the case was based on the complaint lodged by Gulbahar Khan, a man from Jwalapur in Haridwar district.“We have started investigating the matter in which provocative statements were made against a particular religion,” he said, refusing to specify if more people were named in the FIR, or how many people were mentioned in the original complaint.Tyagi converted to Hinduism from Islam earlier this month.“Police will ensure of maintenance of law and order with adequate security so Christmas celebrations can be held,” said SP (city), Swatantra Kumar.Some seers rejected the charges of hate speech. Mahamandaleshwar Swami Prabodhanand Giri said that the Dharam Sansad raised issues of social malpractices, casteism and social harmony. “We called on for strengthening Sanatan Dharm and unity among Hindus. Is that anti-religious?” asked Giri.Another seer, Mahant Lokesh Das, said the event called for the protection of “sanatan dharm” and the establishment of India as a Hindu nation but did not call for violence against those from other communities.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/dehradun-news/haridwar-hate-speech-uttarakhand-cops-file-case-101640299781628.html
24-12-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: Pregnant woman hangs self in Dhanas||A pregnant woman hanged herself at her house in Dhanas, Chandigarh, while she was alone with her two-year-old child on Thursday.The suicide came to light when the neighbours came to the house on hearing the cries of the child and informed the police. The police took her to the GMSH, Sector 16, Chandigarh, where doctors declared her brought dead. The police have initiated inquest proceedings and her family has been informed. Further action would be taken on statements of her family. No suicide note was found on the spot. The police said her husband was out for work when she committed suicide. The husband told the police that when he left for work in the morning, he did not find anything unusual in his wife’s behaviour. He said his wife was unwell for some time and was under stress owing to an illness.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-pregnant-woman-hangs-self-in-dhanas-101640299281138.html
24-12-2021||Chandigarh||Manual for development plan of Punjab’s gram panchayats launched||To sensitise panchayats about development planning, Punjab rural development and panchayats minister Tript Rajinder Singh Bajwa on Thursday launched a training manual “Integrating sustainable development goals into gram panchayat development plan.”During a function held at Vikas Bhawan, Mohali, Bajwa said the training manual had been developed jointly by the Sustainable Development Goals (SDG) Coordination Centre, department of planning and state institute of rural development and panchayati raj, Punjab. The objective of this training manual is to strengthen the capacities of panchayati raj institution (PRI) members for developing an inclusive and holistic developmental plan for their respective gram panchayats within the framework of the SDGs. He urged the panchayat members to work towards good governance, social inclusion, women empowerment and economic development. He said the gram panchayats were the most relevant and effective agencies of panchayati raj for localisation and realisation of SDGs. Bajwa said in order to implement the SDG targets, the state government had set up SDGCC under the aegis of the planning department at the state level.Principal secretary, department of planning, Raj Kamal Chaudhuri said panchayats played a pivotal role in the effective and efficient implementation of flagship schemes on subjects of national and state importance for bringing change at the grass-roots level. Earlier, secretary, department of rural development and panchayats, Rahul Bhandari said this manual was going to be a milestone towards achieving SDGs in the state. He said the government’s entire approach was necessary in order to achieve SDGs through active involvement of the community at the ground level.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/manual-for-development-plan-of-punjab-s-gram-panchayats-launched-101640299279897.html
24-12-2021||Chandigarh||Mohali: 250 veterinary inspectors get appointment letters||Minister for animal husbandry, dairy development and fisheries Tript Rajinder Singh Bajwa on Thursday handed over appointment letters to 250 newly appointed veterinary inspectors at the Livestock Bhawan in Sector 68, Mohali. The state government has recruited 250 veterinary inspectors in the animal husbandry department under the door-to-door employment programme. Bajwa said the Punjab government was committed to providing employment to a maximum number of youth in the state. He said with the recruitment of new veterinary inspectors, the work of the animal husbandry department would be further accelerated and better services would be provided to animal keepers.The minister said the animal husbandry department was providing elite breed and foreign semen/embryos which would significantly increase milk productivity.He said the state government was committed to doubling the income of farmers and appealed to livestock owners/farmers that apart from agriculture, they must engage in allied occupations also like dairy farming, goat and pig rearing which would definitely increase their income.Special chief secretary of the department Ravneet Kaur said the animal husbandry department was taking new initiatives for the improvement of the livestock so that the animal husbandry and dairy profession could be further developed in the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/mohali-250-veterinary-inspectors-get-appointment-letters-101640299278686.html
24-12-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: Spotlight on language policy at Pradeep memorial lecture at PU||The Professor Pradeep Kumar Memorial Lecture was delivered by G Gopa Kumar, former vice-chancellor, Kerala Central University, at PU on Thursday. The lecture was chaired by emeritus professor BS Brar of Panjab University. The lecture is held annually in the memory of Professor Pradeep Kumar, a former faculty member in the department of political science.Speaking on “Language policy and policies of south Indian states”, Professor Kumar presented an overview of the way language question has unfolded in India since the colonial days. “Facing resistance from the non-Hindi speaking members, the constituent assembly had also accorded equal status to 14 Indian languages. To concede to the demands of those who wished to promote Hindi as the national language, the three-language formula was implemented in 1968 based on the BG Kher Commission recommendation. Accordingly, Hindi, English and a regional language were to be the part of the official language policy of the constituent states,” he said.Focussing the lecture on the southern states, Professor Kumar observed that even after the reorganisation, linguistic minorities remained in different proportions.He concluded that the three-language policy had not been successful on the ground both in the Hindi speaking and non-Hindi speaking states. “The new education policy is fair in its multilingual approach, especially with an emphasis on the promotion of Indian languages. It will enable greater access at the school and college level,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-spotlight-on-language-policy-at-pradeep-memorial-lecture-at-pu-101640299277154.html
24-12-2021||Chandigarh||Amid vaccine hesitancy, Chandigarh likely to miss December target||The UT is likely to miss its target of vaccinating 100 percent of the eligible population with both doses of vaccines till December 31 as people continue to show hesitancy in getting Covid jab.According to the latest electoral list and the Central government’s set target, around 8.43 lakh people are to be immunised in Chandigarh. As on Thursday, 9,61,737 (114%) people, including migrants, have taken their first shot in Chandigarh, while 7,03,492 (83%) are fully vaccinated.However, around 1.48 lakh people, who have taken their first dose of Covid-19 vaccines from healthcare facilities in Chandigarh, are not turning up to take their second jab even after the completion of recommended vaccine time gap. The overdue number was as high as 1.87 lakh in the initial days of December.Besides, 40,000 people in Chandigarh are also due for the second dose but they have not completed the 16-week time gap yet. The vaccination drive in Chandigarh is gradually slowing down with the weekly vaccination average dipping. Only 3,026 people on an average were vaccinated with the first and second dose daily for the past one week. On Thursday, 3,742 doses were administered to people.“The UT health department could have achieved the target of fully vaccinating all eligible people till December-end if people would have not missed their vaccination dates. If 1.48 lakh people had taken their second dose on time, we would have already achieved the target,” said Yashpal Garg, UT health secretary, adding that the administration would soon take a call on putting restrictions on those people who are missing their second dose. This comes a day after Haryana announced that eligible people, who are not fully vaccinated, will not be permitted inside crowded places like malls, cinema halls and restaurants in Haryana from January 1.Garg added, “To motivate people, the UT health department is organising door-to-door vaccination drives, asking government officials to complete the vaccination, organising special camps at public places and fun activities like lucky draw. Even then, people are not coming forward to take the second dose, which is only for their own benefit. The first dose of vaccine helps in building antibodies, but without a booster dose, the antibodies are insufficient to fight the virus, especially with more deadly variants like Omicron that is spreading fast.”‘Tracing such people difficult’Dr Suman Singh, director, health services, Chandigarh, said, “The UT health department is trying to trace 1.48 people with overdue second dose. But, the contact numbers and addresses of over 50% of them are not accurate. People do not even share correct personal details which are now affecting our vaccination drive. Hence, the only option is door-to-door drive, which we are already conducting. This campaign is helping in vaccinating people as a number of overdue cases has come down after this initiative.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/amid-vaccine-hesitancy-chandigarh-likely-to-miss-december-target-101640299275902.html
24-12-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: Teachers protest for higher pay scales||The teachers from colleges and universities across the city on Thursday organised a rally against the state government at the DAV College, Sector 10, marking the 23rd day of the Education Bandh.Around 200 teachers participated in the protest, expressing shock at the non-inclusion of teachers’ agenda in the Punjab Cabinet Meeting. Faculty members from all higher education institutes joined the protest, hopeful of the announcement implementing the of 7th pay commission and withdrawal of the order of delinking teachers’ pay scales from the University Grants Commission.Hunger strike enters Day 18The hunger strike, organised under the aegis of Punjab Federation of University and College Teachers’ Organisation (PFUCTO) and the Punjab and Chandigarh College Teachers Union (PCCTU), also entered the eighteenth day, with a total of 34 teachers sitting on hunger strike.PUTA organises dharnaThe Panjab University Teachers Association (PUTA) meanwhile, organised a one-hour-long dharna in front of the university’s administrative block, protesting against the Punjab Government’s inability to implement the revised UGC pay scales as per 7th pay commission and withdraw the decision to delink UGC scales. PUTA president Mritunjay Kumar said the silence on the part of the Punjab Government is a cause of great concern. “It has failed to resolve the matter despite a statewide Education Bandh being observed by all Universities and College teachers under the banner of PFUCTO for the past 23 day,” he added.Kumar further condemned the indifferent approach of the government in handling of the entire fiasco.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-teachers-protest-for-higher-pay-scales-101640299235259.html
24-12-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh tricity clocks 19 Covid cases for third day in a row||Tricity’s daily Covid-19 count remained 19 for the third consecutive day on Thursday. Chandigarh led the daily tally with 11 cases, Panchkula reported six and Mohali two. On the bright side, no Covid-related fatality was reported for the third straight day.In Mohali, one case each was reported from Mohali and Kharar. Those found infected in Chandigarh are residents of Sectors 9, 15, 16, 19, 30, 35 and 36, Maloya and Manimajra.With this, tricity’s active caseload climbed to 190, highest since July. As many as 97 patients are still infected in Chandigarh, 50 in Panchkula and 43 in Mohali.Omicron: UT asked to step up surveillanceThe central government on Thursday asked all states and union territories, including Chandigarh, to step up surveillance in the wake of the spread of Covid’s Omicron variant.The Covid-review meeting, held by the Union government, was attended by senior health experts from Chandigarh, including director, health services, Dr Suman Singh, and UT health secretary Yashpal Garg. Dr Singh said, “The UT health department is already taking measures to control any possible surge. Arrangements have been made in government hospitals, including reservation of beds for Covid patients and procurement of essential drugs and other equipment, so that any emergency situation can be tackled. People are urged get vaccinated at the earliest.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-tricity-clocks-19-covid-cases-for-third-day-in-a-row-101640299231389.html
24-12-2021||Chandigarh||Panchkula police bust ‘nude call’ extortion ring with arrest of two||The local police have busted a gang that blackmailed a resident of Sector 20 with nude videos and extorted ₹16.11 lakh.Two of the gang members – Nasir Mohammad, hailing from Ishnaka village in Rajasthan, and Kushalpal from Jraar village in Uttar Pradesh – have been arrested.Police took Nasir’s custody from the Delhi Police on December 20, while Kushalpal was arrested from Bhiwadi, Rajasthan, on December 22.The 69-year-old victim, who lives with his wife in Sector 20, had filed an extortion complaint against the gang on July 8.In his complaint, the victim had named Nisha, Rahul, and Alok Verma and Gaurav Malhotra, who claimed to be police officers from Delhi Police crime branch.The complainant told the police that he received a Facebook friend request from a woman named Nisha in June. After he accepted the request, she sought his WhatsApp number, but he refused.Later, while he was driving his car, he received a video call from the woman on the Facebook messenger and when he answered, he found her undressed and immediately disconnected the call.Thereon, the woman started blackmailing him, and he also received threatening calls from Alok Verma and Gaurav Malhotra, following which he ended up paying over ₹16.11 lakh to avoid trouble.Realising the fraud, the victim filed a complaint and a case was registered on July 21 under Sections 406 (criminal breach of trust) and 420 (cheating) of the Indian Penal Code.Tracking the bank accounts where the victim transferred the money, police zeroed in on Kushalpal, who works as a supervisor in a private company. This further led to the two arrests in December.According to police, the gang had blackmailed several people through the same modus operandi.ACP Umed said Nasir was facing at least four cases and Kushalpal another two, adding that their network was spread throughout the country.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/panchkula-police-bust-nude-call-extortion-ring-with-arrest-of-two-101640299230085.html
24-12-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh goes to poll today||In what is expected to be a close contest, 6,33,475 voters are set to elect 35 councillors for the Chandigarh municipal corporation on Friday.This is the first civic poll after nearly entire Chandigarh, including its 22 villages, came under the jurisdiction of the municipal body.The total wards were increased from 26 to 35 last year, after 13 new villages were added to MC’s limits in 2019.As many as 203 candidates are in the fray, with three main contenders – the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), the Congress and the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) putting up candidates from all 35 wards.Happening in the backdrop of the Covid-19 pandemic, the elections will be conducted with elaborate safety arrangements in place and facilities even for Covid patients.Ruling BJP facing tough challengeCity voters will decide on Friday whether the electoral graph of the BJP will continue to see an upswing or whether its traditional rival Congress and a resurgent AAP are able to reverse its recent successes.After a poor show in the 2006 MC elections, where it could get only six seats in a House of 26, the saffron party nearly doubled its tally in 2011 and then doubled it again in 2016.Riding on its “vikas mantra”, the party is once again hoping to repeat the success after making its achievements in the last six years its main poll plank.For the Congress, which had considered the City Beautiful as its safe bastion since its inception, the slide has been paralleled by the rise of BJP.In addition to losing ground in civic polls, it lost to the BJP in the last two Lok Sabha elections as well. It has promised the city voters to make “Chandigarh No. 1 again” with an assurance not to increase or impose new taxes.For the AAP, whose majority candidates are former Congress leaders, it remains to be seen whether it eats into the Congress votes or cashes in on the anti-incumbency, which previously went to the BJP.Unlike, the 2019 Lok Sabha elections, the party this time around has campaigned aggressively, pushing its “Delhi Model”, along with loads of freebies. Arrangements for Covid patientsCovid patients may cast their vote during the last hour of voting (4pm to 5pm). In case there are no Covid patients at a booth, polling will continue as usual.The patients will require a doctor’s consent and will be brought to the polling station in designated ambulances. The polling booth presiding officers, where Covid patients will cast vote, will be informed in advance for taking required precautions.Model polling stationThe State Election Commission has set up nine model polling stations, where besides the assured minimum facilities, hot tea/coffee, sitting lounge and roses for senior citizens will be arranged. “A red carpet will also be laid out at these model polling stations, welcoming voters to cast their vote,” said the commission’s spokesperson.Kher to visit city after a year to cast voteThe Chandigarh MP, Kirron Kher, will be in the city after nearly one year to cast her vote in the municipal elections.Kher has been undergoing treatment in Mumbai from multiple myeloma, a type of blood cancer.The MP on Thursday also released a video attacking the Congress and the AAP for the Dadumajra dumping ground mess. “We have delivered on most of our promises. One issue, the garbage dumping problem, will also be resolved. It was created by the Congress. The AAP leaders, who are now questioning it, were in Congress when the solid waste processing was set up by the Congress. Bansal sahab brought this company,” she said.Responding to Kher’s allegations, former Union minister and senior Congress leader Pawan Bansal said it was a desperate attempt to salvage her crumbling image among the people of Chandigarh.Criticising the MP for misleading the people, he said the garbage treatment plant was working efficiently till the Congress was at the helm in MC.“The dumping ground was almost at ground level. Thereafter, the BJP MP as well as her party neglected the city openly. What steps did she or her party take to rectify the situation when the garbage dump began gaining height?” he asked.“The fact is that she did nothing in the last seven years. Now by issuing such press statements, she wants people of Chandigarh to condone her gross dereliction of duty,” he added.Holiday for employees of commercial unitsThe UT administration, repealing its earlier order, has declared December 24 as a paid holiday for all employees of factories, shops and commercial establishments falling in ward numbers 1 to 35.Earlier on Wednesday, the UT administration had announced short leave for such employees.Further, in a partial modification of the order issued on December 17, now dry day will be observed up to 9pm on December 24 and the whole day on the counting day (December 27).Earlier, dry days were to be observed for the whole day from December 22 to 24 and on December 27.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-goes-to-poll-today-101640299228814.html
24-12-2021||Chandigarh||Dispute over promotions: Punjab and Haryana high court stays CAT order in two cops’ case||The Punjab and Haryana high court has stayed a Central Administrative Tribunal (CAT) order asking the director-general of police (DGP), Chandigarh, to allow two constables, facing departmental inquiries to attend a lower school training programme, mandatory for promotion to the next level. The high court bench of justice GS Sandhawalia acted on the plea from the city administration challenging CAT order of December 15.The training programme is mandatory for the promotion of constables to the post of head constables. The CAT order had come on the plea from constables Jagjit Singh and Jagjinder Singh, who had challenged the decision of the authorities not to include their names for the programme. In July 2019, a departmental enquiry was initiated against Jagjeet Singh on allegations of being absent from duties during the Lok Sabha elections of 2019. There are also two more probes pending against him. As of Jagjinder Singh, he was dismissed from service for allegedly demanding and accepting a bribe in September 2020. He was re-instated in service in September 2020, but a departmental probe was ordered. In November, a process was initiated for filling up posts through promotion, but their names were dropped in view of these enquiries. They approached CAT against the decision. The UT had argued that if they are exonerated, they would be eligible to be deputed in the course in the next batch. But CAT ordered in their favour.The UT in the high court had argued that past record and performance of an employee and pendency of departmental enquiry is a crucial factor to determine the merit of the candidate. Their names had not been excluded from the list but kept in the sealed cover subject to the outcome of the departmental inquiries pending against them. In case they are exonerated in the departmental/criminal proceedings, they will be eligible to be deputed in the next batch, the UT had argued before the high court. The court while seeking a response from the duo on February 8 ordered that the course has already started on December 13, which is for a period of one month. In such circumstances, the Tribunal shall not enforce the order till the next date of hearing, it added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/dispute-over-promotions-punjab-and-haryana-high-court-stays-cat-order-in-two-cops-case-101640299226520.html
24-12-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh MC elections: Day before polling, row over ‘fake’ voter IDs||After complaints over distribution of “fake” voter ID-cards in Sector 34, the returning officer of the area asked the police to investigate the matter and report on it “immediately”. Returning officer Harjit Singh Sandhu forwarded a complaint, made by Aam Aadmi Party (AAP), to the station house officer of Sector 34 here on Thursday. Satish Kumar Sahini, state joint secretary, AAP, in his complaint stated that a private person, who is the driver of a BJP covering candidate, was distributing voter cards in Sector 34. Congress, BJP workers come to blowsEarlier in the day, high political drama was witnessed at Sector 34 after Congress and Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) workers came to blows over the allegations of distribution of “fake” voter ID-cards. Senior leaders, including BJP’s state president Arun Sood and Congress city chief Subhash Chawla, also reached the location of the incident. Rajiv Sharma, the spokesperson of Congress’ Chandigarh unit, in a letter to EC, alleged, “A BJP worker was caught by local residents in Sector 34 C while distributing over 150 fake voter IDs of local voters. On confronting, he admitted on camera that he was given these fake voter ID cards by a BJP leader, with directions to distribute these in the area.” The complaint further read, “Residents handed over the BJP worker to the police but no action has been taken by the police or the election commission to our knowledge.” Dr Anish Garg, chief spokesperson of the Chandigarh Residents’ Association Welfare Federation (CRAWFED), who is a BJP supporter, alleged that he was thrashed by Congress workers. A video of the incident was also circulated on social media. Garg said, “The block level officer (BLO) was not feeling well, so one of the party members living here tried to help in distribution of the cards. Former mayor Poonam Sharma and I only went to enquire what had happened, but the Congress workers started attacking us.” “I lodged a complaint with the local police after Congress goons beat me up,” he added. On the incident, MP Kirron Kher, tweeted, “I am ashamed of what they have done to our leaders! It’s shameful to see what level the Congress party has stooped to! AAP are the B-Team to Congress.” Sharing a video of the BJP leaders who alleged that they were beaten up by the Congress workers during the incident, Kher further stated, “Listen to what the Congress goons did to our leaders who have been working so hard with honesty and patience. The voters are not going to forgive Congress and AAP. Let no one create a false perception of our leaders.” ‘Sector-34 polling station declared sensitive’Returning officer Sandhu, said, “We have declared the polling station as sensitive. It is located Government School, Sector 34. We have appointed a micro-observer for the station. Police deployment and the videography of the entire voting process will be done as per the norms of the “sensitive booth”. We have also written to the police to submit a report to us too after investigation into the matter as per law.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-mc-elections-day-before-polling-row-over-fake-voter-ids-101640299225420.html
24-12-2021||Chandigarh||Child beggars in Chandigarh tricity hope for a positive shift||Wearing torn clothes in freezing temperatures and slippers that do not match, child beggars make for a pitiable sight on the streets. And yet, organised groups have become a common sight in the city. At Tribune Chowk, one of the busiest roundabouts of the city, one is likely to find at least five to six children knocking at the car windows, seeking alms. Banded together, they look out for each other, giving out warnings of approaching government vehicles looking to take them to child care institutions. Speaking of the camaraderie, one of the neighbourhood street vendors said, “They are not with us. The children run away, mostly banded together in groups, as they fear the van, which comes and takes them to some ashram.” The scenario is similar at other junctions and intersections, including at Hallomajra, Sector 35, Sector 15, Elante mall and Sai Mandir.If the children are to be believed, there is a mistrust between them and the authorities, which they view as being “indifferent” towards them.Outside the Sai Temple, a group of child beggars spoke about their interest to study, but have a hard time securing admissions at school as they don’t possess the required documents. Begging is the only viable option left for them.An 11-year-old child beggar wants to be a police officer and his six-year-old sister wants to be a doctor. They both admittedly miss going to school.Their pale faces also speak volumes as getting food on the plate is their first priority. The children, however, have not given up on their dreams as yet.“If given a chance to study, I would like to be a police officer and will punish those who trouble the poor people,” the boy said. Malti Devi, who has been begging outside the Sai Temple for the last 10 years, has three children. Only one them go to school. The other two are into begging. She, like many others, cited the lack of proper documents, including birth certificates, as a major hurdle.Cases of children being pulled from school despite their interest in pursuing education are far more common than one would think.And then there are times when it all comes down to not having even the basic resources. Rita, 60, has been the guardian to two children ever since the death of their mother, but does not have a steady source of income to afford education for them.“Can you please send these children to school. Their life will improve. We pleaded with the school authorities but they are not admitting the children as they have no documents. They say ‘We must stop this!’ but their promises will not be fulfilled,” she said.Child Protection Society programme manager Bisman Ahuja, from the Social Welfare Department, said they have rescued 79 child beggars since January 2020 and over 300 in the last four years.The department does not have the proper data of the number of children still enrolled in school, but Ahuja highlighted how teams carry out scheduled drives for encouraging children to take up education.“Child beggar once rescued is produced before the Child Welfare Committee who finds out their parents and hands the children over to them or if needed children are sent to child care institutions. From there, he is sent for formal education or non-formal courses,” she said. Encouraging people to help children get away from begging, she said, “People should not give alms to child beggars. And they should report to them or the child helpline.”
24-12-2021||Chandigarh||Paediatric ICU at Chandigarh’s GMSH-16 to take another month for completion||Amid the rising Covid-19 cases in Chandigarh and neighbouring cities, the upcoming dedicated paediatric ICU centre at Government Multi-Specialty Hospital (GMSH), Sector 16, will not be ready for another month.As part of preparations for the third wave, the UT health department had decided to set up a 32-bed, dedicated Covid paediatric unit at GMSH-16 by October. However, the already delayed project will take another one month for completion due to the Chandigarh municipal elections.“The engineering work of the building got delayed initially. Due to the election code of conduct, approvals and filing procedures are taking extra time and work has not progressed for a month. It will resume on December 28 after the code of conduct is lifted and the facility will be ready in another month,” said Dr Suman Singh, director, health services, Chandigarh.As per medical experts, the third wave of the pandemic can be more aggressive, which is likely to affect the non-immune people, including the paediatric population.The new paediatric centre will have 12 ventilators, while the remaining beds will have medical oxygen facility. It is being constructed at the hospital’s nursing hostel, which was lying vacant since the hostel was shifted to the campus of Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH), Sector 32.GMSH-16 already also has a 20-bed ICU for children at the hospital’s surgical ward. It includes eight ventilator beds and 12 oxygen beds.Dr Suman added, “Besides the dedicated Covid ICU, the hospital is also planning to start an Advanced Paediatric Centre. Planning is underway and work is expected to start soon.”Even though few children were infected with the virus in Chandigarh during the first and second waves of the pandemic, government hospitals in Chandigarh believe that ramping up facilities for them is the need of the hour.GMCH-32 has also reserved 14 ventilators at the paediatric ICU (for children below 10), while a dozen ventilators are reserved for the neonatal care facility.During the second wave of the pandemic, around 10 ventilators were dedicated for the paediatric population at the NHE Covid Block of the Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER). Besides, the institute also had a 35-bed ICU with oxygen facility in its paediatric department.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/paediatric-icu-at-chandigarh-s-gmsh-16-to-take-another-month-for-completion-101640299218754.html
24-12-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh woman loses ₹3.6 lakh in online fraud||Eyeing higher returns, a Manimajra resident lost ₹3.6 lakh to fraudsters. In her complaint, Meenakshi, a resident of New Indira Colony, Manimajra, Chandigarh, said she received text messages on her mobile phone, promising lucrative returns on investment.Later, an unknown person also called her, giving details about the scheme. The caller had asked her to invest money in an online company named “fun-earn.com”. Therefore, she made UPI payments worth ₹3.6 lakh between July 25 and July 31. However, after receiving the payments, the caller became unreachable and she could not contact the company either. Realising the fraud, she contacted the police, who have registered a case under Sections 419 (cheating by personation), 420 (cheating) and 120-B (criminal conspiracy) of the Indian Penal Code at the IT Park police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-woman-loses-3-6-lakh-in-online-fraud-101640299217500.html
24-12-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: No midnight Christmas mass for second year in a row||Even as the Covid situation in December is better this year as compared to 2020, various churches of the tricity have decided to do away with the traditional midnight Christmas mass this year as well as a precautionary step.Bishop Ignatius Mascarenhas of the Roman Catholic Church, Simla and Chandigarh Diocese, said, “Like last year, we plan to hold three separate services on Christmas eve, at 5.30pm, 7pm and 8.30pm to ensure there is no crowding on the premises. Covid is known to spread faster in the cold and dry weather, and we want to finish the services as early as possible for the safety of people.” On Christmas also, an English service will be held at 8.30am, while the Hindi service will be held at 10am to prevent crowding.There will also be no community lunch at Christ the King Cathedral in Sector 19. Bishop Ignatius added, “While we will serve the congregation tea and cake, they will be encouraged to enjoy the Christmas feast at home with their families.”He added that there will be no exhibition in the basement of the church this year as well. However, churches will be setting up a nativity scene, which will be ready by Christmas for the visitors.Parish priest of the church in Chandimandir, Father Premanand said they were planning to offer food to the less fortunate on Christmas day. Meanwhile, neighbourhood carols ahead of Christmas concluded this week, as per chairman of the Nayagaon Church, Lawrence Malik. He said their church will also hold a fellowship lunch on Christmas. Shobha Yatra organised with fervourAfter skipping it last year due to the pandemic, the Tricity Churches Association held the Christmas Shobha Yatra on Thursday, marking presence of over 4,000 people. The procession started from the CNI Church in Sector 18 and passed through Sectors 19, 20, 21, 22, 23 and 24, before ending at the rally ground in Sector 25.Chairman of the association, Father Premanand said it was moving to see people participating in the procession, while walking along with vehicles. He thanked the administration and the police for giving the necessary permissions in time. As per the 2011 census, Christians represent 0.83% of the total population of Chandigarh. (With inputs from Jahanvi Kashyap and Pragya Roy Barman)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarhno-midnight-christmas-mass-for-second-year-in-a-row-101640299216153.html
24-12-2021||Delhi||The Banksy of Mandi House||Circles and squares rippling with wavelets. A sphere with a labyrinth. The word ‘Aah’ drawn in calligraphic style. And many other shapes. All of these are made with white chalk on the leaf-strewn pavement - including on a manhole.What are these? Artworks? Secret codes? Symbols left behind by a lost civilisation? These indeterminate patterns cover a corner plaza of the Mandi House traffic circle in central Delhi.This sunny afternoon, busy people are walking on these chalk drawings without throwing even a cursory glance at them. A guard on a break from duty at a nearby building is having his lunch by the pavement. He has no idea about the person, or persons, behind these drawings. He, however, rushes to give his review - “they have no meaning”. But then, the Mandi House circle has at least two rock-like sculptures installed by the roadside whose meaning might seem unclear to many of us.Truth be told, the artworks currently on exhibit in the galleries of Triveni Kala Sangam, just a few steps away, are also all enigma and abstraction.Soon, scrap collector Man Singh appears with a sack on his shoulder. “These drawings are done by a man who is padaa likha (educated),” he informs in a conspiratorial whisper. Akhil, the attendant of an adjacent public toilet, throws more light on the mysterious artist. “He is always dressed in suit-pant.”The designs catch the attention of a passerby. Amrita Chauhan looks fascinated, saying, “Mandi House is full of interesting people.” She is implying that being a theatre district, “the area teems with artists and actors, and may be one of them decided to use the ground as his canvas.”It is not uncommon for artists to discreetly showcase their work in public spaces without giving away their identity.Last year, the internet was abuzz with the sighting of a monolithic metal pillar set up by an unknown person in the remote red sandstone canyons of Utah in the US. Can this Mandi House man be a similar sort of artist? One wonders if this work will fade away due to Delhi’s harsh climate or stay, encrusted with the patina of forthcoming seasons.On further investigation, a discovery is made. Under the bushes that skirt the plaza lie half a dozen chalks.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/the-banksy-of-mandi-house-101640298509037.html
24-12-2021||Delhi||Man beaten to death in Sangam Vihar, one held||A group of eight people beat a 24-year-old man to death, and severely injured his friend in south Delhi’s Sangam Vihar in the early hours on Monday, and robbed the two victims of ₹3,000, the police said on Thursday.A CCTV camera installed near the site captured the crime. The CCTV video shows the eight suspects brutally beating the two victims as Jatin (age yet to be ascertained) and Pankaj Kumar, 21. The video shows the two victims were punched, kicked and beaten with pieces of concrete lying by the roadside.Before leaving the spot, the assailants threw the two victims in a roadside drain, the video shows.Additional deputy commissioner of police (south) Harsha Vardhan Mandava said the police were informed about the crime around 12pm on Tuesday, almost 10 hours later. A case of robbery and attempt to murder was registered on the complaint of one of the victims, Pankaj Kumar.“Both the injured men were admitted to AIIMS Trauma Centre. One of them, identified as Jatin, succumbed to his injuries on December 22. Pankaj was discharged after medical attention. Since one of the victims died, we have added section 302 (murder) in the first information report (FIR). Two suspected attackers were apprehended. One of them was identified as Ramjan Ali. The age of the other suspect is being ascertained. Efforts are on to nab the absconding attackers,” said Mandava.Pankaj told the police that they were attacked when they returning home after attending the birthday party of their friend’s brother in Sangam Vihar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/man-beaten-to-death-in-sangam-vihar-one-held-101640297593847.html
24-12-2021||Delhi||DDA makes new attempt to sell 18k+ returned flats||The Delhi Development Authority (DDA) on Thursday launched a housing scheme to sell over 18,000 flats that were returned by allottees of previous such programmes, a bulk of which are located in outer Delhi’s Narela.A majority of the 18,335 flats (nearly 11,500) are earmarked for lower-income groups (LIG), and 205 flats up for sale are in the high-income group (HIG) category, located in Vasant Kunj and Jasola.Flats are also available in Dwarka, Jahangirpuri, Rohini, Siraspur, Lok Nayak Puram, Shivani Marg, and applications will stay open till January 7 next year.Officials said the complete application process will be conducted online.A senior DDA official said, “A majority of these flats were returned by allottees of past housing schemes. We recently got the approval to put these flats on sale in a meeting chaired by the Delhi Lieutenant Governor [Anil Baijal]. A large number of the flats are located in Narela where we have made efforts to improve infrastructure, including transport connectivity. A Metro corridor has been planned, to connect the area with the rest of the city.”The Delhi Metro will build a Metrolite corridor between Rithala, Bawana and Narela, the land-owing agency has previously said.To ensure a good response to its scheme, DDA is offering the flats at old rates, said a senior official.In January 2021, DDA launched a scheme for 1,354 houses, including new HIG and MIG flats.Last year, DDA put on sale 252 HIG flats in Jasola, Dwarka and Rohini. In Jasola alone, 215 newly constructed HIG flats, priced between ₹1.97 crore and 2.14 crore, were put on sale for the first time. But over 180 of these have been returned.In Dwarka, allottees returned 478 of 700 MIG flats that were put on sale earlier this year.Of the 11,452 LIG flats on sale in the latest housing programme, 8,295 are in Narela.In a written reply in Rajya Sabha, Union minister of state for housing and urban affairs Kaushal Kishore said 79% of DDA flats returned since 2014 are located in Narela. He said 56,932 flats have been put on sale since 2014, of which 15,500 have been returned.The landowning agency has been struggling to sell its flats since 2014, when it put close to 25,000 flats, mostly LIG, on sale. Close to 12,000 flats, mostly in Narela and Rohini, were returned by allottees citing small size of bedrooms, lack of connectivity to the housing complexes etc. Since then, DDA has been trying to clear its inventory.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/dda-makes-new-attempt-to-sell-18k-returned-flats-101640296448250.html
24-12-2021||Delhi||After meeting, Sisodia says state will hike guest teachers’ salaries||Delhi deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia on Thursday said that the state government has agreed to hike the salary of guest teachers in its schools. Sisodia, who is also Delhi’s education minister, said a delegation of guest teachers met him on Wednesday and apprised him of their demands, including a hike in their salary.“Some Guest Teachers came to meet me yesterday to share their experiences about how the @ArvindKejriwal govt has given them respect and recognition. They requested an increase in salary. Happy to announce that Delhi Govt has started the process to increase salary of Guest Teachers,” Sisodia tweeted on Thursday.The minister also tweeted an order sent to the principal secretary (education) that said, “The major request of the guest teachers, as mentioned in their representation, is regarding the revision of their remuneration. I agree with their point that the increase in cost of living, compounded by economic hardships in many families due to Covid necessitates an upward revision in remuneration.”“Therefore, it is directed that the Directorate of Education should increase the remuneration of guest and contract teachers,” the order said.The Delhi directorate of education (DoE) has been asked to work out the details and submit a detailed proposal to the government, according to the order.A delegation of the Dilli Atithi Shikshak Sangh (a union of guest teachers in the city) met chief minister Arvind Kejriwal and Sisodia on Wednesday and submitted a representation on behalf of guest teachers posted in Delhi government schools.They also shared their teaching-learning experiences with students in schools during the meeting.There are over 20,000 guest teachers engaged in government and aided schools in the national capital.The Delhi government in June this year directed its schools to redeploy guest teachers whose services were discontinued during the summer vacation in view of rising Covid-19 cases in the city.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/after-meeting-sisodia-says-state-will-hike-guest-teachers-salaries-101640295636396.html
24-12-2021||Chandigarh||J&K sees 3 deaths, 132 Covid infections||Jammu and Kashmir reported three deaths and 132 fresh coronavirus infections on Thursday. Of the total cases, 105 cases and three deaths were reported in Kashmir valley, while the Jammu division saw 27 infections. At 40, the highest cases were reported in Srinagar, followed by 34 cases in Baramulla and 23 in Jammu. As many as 17 districts saw single digit or zero cases.Srinagar district has the highest number of active cases at 468 followed by Jammu and Baramulla districts with 219 and 180 active cases respectively.The number of patients who were cured in the UT was 118, with active positive cases reaching 1,319.Around 72,005 vaccine doses were administered, taking overall doses administered in the UT to 1.785 crores. The overall number of people who have recovered reached 3,34,456, prompting the recovery rate to reach 98.28%. Since the pandemic started, the overall cases in J&K have reached 3,40,293 and the death-toll has reached 4,518. The officials said that 54,938 tests were conducted in the past 24 hours in the UT. The Jammu district has the highest number of 1,156 fatalities followed by Srinagar with 880 deaths.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/jk-sees-3-deaths-132-covid-infections-101640295855692.html
24-12-2021||Chandigarh||Amid light snowfall, night temperature in Kashmir climbs over zero after 2 weeks||The night temperature in most of the weather stations in Kashmir increased after over two weeks of sub-zero temperatures on Thursday, except for the ski resort, Gulmarg, which received light snowfall.J&K’s meteorological (MeT) department said that light snowfall was reported at isolated places of Kashmir even as there was significant rise in the minimum temperatures by four to five degrees in the union territories of J&K and Ladakh.“As expected, light snow and rainfall took place at scattered places in Kashmir and the Sonmarg-Zojila axis,” said MeT director Sonam Lotus. “Present weather conditions are likely to continue for the next 24 hours,” he said.The night temperatures improved further in Kashmir valley on Thursday with summer capital Srinagar recording a temperature of 2.6 degree Celsius, climbing above zero for the first time after December 6. During this period the mercury had plunged to a lowest of minus 6 degrees in Srinagar.Chilai Kalan, Kashmir’s harshest over 40-day winter period started on Tuesday amid predictions of approaching weather systems which will bring snow and rain between December 23- 24 and December 26 -28.There were reports of mild snowfall in Gulmarg, Tangmarg, Gurez and Sonamarg-Zojila areas in north Kashmir, while Srinagar received rainfall.The overcast sky improved night temperatures across J&K union territory and Ladakh owing to the western disturbance.The ski resort of Gulmarg recorded a night temperature of -3.7°C, while Pahalgam in south Kashmir recorded a minimum temperature of 0.3 degree Celsius.Jammu’s Banihal recorded a minimum night temperature of 3 degrees. In Ladakh ,recorded a minimum temperature -9.6°C, while it was -6.6°C in Leh during the night.Lotus said another snow spell of greater intensity is likely between December 26 and 27. “Expect, widespread light to moderate snow in plains of Kashmir, rain in Jammu and moderate snow at scattered places of Ladakh especially Kargil -Zanskar region. Light snow is also possible at some places in Leh district, mainly over higher reaches,” Lotus said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/amid-light-snowfall-night-temperature-in-kashmir-climbs-over-zero-after-2-weeks-101640293876646.html
24-12-2021||Chandigarh||Water shortage in Theog: CPI(M) legislator stages protest||Protesting against the water shortage in Though, CPI( M) legislator Rakesh Singha staged a sit-in protest outside the Jal Shakti department headquarters in Tuttikandi on Thursday. “It is sad that even after 75 years of the inception of the irrigation and water supply department, drinking water supply in Theogh is not regular. There is acute water shortage in the town and surrounding areas. I have raised the issue with the department time and again, but to no avail,” said Singha. “ Drinking water supply is an essential and fundamental right of the citizens. Until regular water is supplied to people in the Theog area, I shall continue my protest. I do not live in the MLA residence provided by the government, but I receive huge water bills. This is the result of privatisation,” he said. Villagers protesting with the legislator said they sometimes do not get water for 10 days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/water-shortage-in-theog-cpi-m-legislator-stages-protest-101640293635111.html
24-12-2021||Chandigarh||Tibetan freedom activist completes 127-day Himalayan walk||Tibetan freedom activist and writer Tenzin Tsundue has completed his epic walk, traversing one Union territory and four Himalayan states, to raise awareness about 70 years of Chinese occupation in Tibet, and the security threat it poses to India. Tsundue had left Dharamshala on August 14 for a ‘Walking the Himalayas’ expedition. He started his journey from Leh traversed Himachal, Uttrakhand, Sikkim and Arunachal using local transport and mostly walking through the villages remote nomadic regions and border area before returning to Dharamshala on Wednesday. The 46-year-old activist said that during this journey, spanning 127 days and covering around 20,000km, he realised that the common people in the border regions have little to no awareness about China’s expansionist policies, and its current activities across the borders. “They had been left shocked by the Galwan Valley Clash between the Indian Army and China’s People’s Liberation Army in 2020, which had left 20 Indian soldiers dead,” he said. The activist had brought a projector, sound box and bed sheet screen with him, which he used to screen the film, ‘Escape of The Dalai Lama’ around 100 times. “This film explains the Chinese occupation of Tibet and Chinese military pressure across the Himalayan borders,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/tibetan-freedom-activist-completes-127-day-himalayan-walk-101640293335456.html
24-12-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana court blast eyewitnesses recount horror||Until about noon, it was a regular day at the Ludhiana courts complex-- harried litigants walking along the corridors, advocates going about their work, some catching up with their colleagues over a cup of tea. In a matter of few seconds, their world was blown apart.There was smoke and dust all around. Shards of glass lay on the floor.“I saw two women and a photostat machine tossed in the air,” recounts Harjot Singh Harike, former vice president of District Bar Association (DBA), who was merely 50-ft away from the spot where the explosion took place on Thursday.“For a few seconds, I was numb. I failed to understand what was going on. But after a minutes as the dust settled, I saw my friend, advocate KS Mand, trapped under the debris,” says Harike, who managed to quickly take stock of the situation and help rush the injured, including his friend, to the hospital.Charanjit Kaur Sekhon, another advocate, who had just passed by the washroom where the explosion took place, said, “We heard the explosion and suddenly people were running helter-skelter. There were shards of glass from the window panes all around and smoke and dust had covered the whole floor.”Another advocate, Manu, who had been talking to one of the injured Sandeep Kaur, 31, while recounting the horror said, “We were sipping tea close to the blast site. After a while I started walking back to my chamber on the fourth floor. I was in the stairway when the blast went off. There was chaos all around. I rushed back and saw Sandeep injured.”Sandeep suffered critical injuries on her head and legs. From her hospital bed, she said, “All I can remember is that I was using the Photostat machine when I heard a loud explosion. When I gained consciousness some time later, some people were taking me to the hospital.”Another injured Sharanjit Kaur, 25, who had come with her sister, for the hearing of a civil case in a courtroom situated on the second floor of the building said, “We reached the court around noon. We were moving towards the courtroom on the second floor when the blast took place.” Sharanjit had suffered a blackout after the blast. Her sister Gurpreet Kaur was among the injured.Sandeep and Sharanjit are undergoing treatment at the Ludhiana civil hospital. Civil surgeon SP Singh said both women are out of danger.The other injured are Manish Kumar (32), a resident of Police Colony Jamalpur, who is undergoing treatment at Christian Medical College and Hospital, Kuldeep Singh Mand, 50, of Bindra Ban Road who is admitted at Dayanand Medical College and Hospital (DMCH) and Krishan Khanna, 75, who is also at DMCH.Close shave for someSudhir Kumar, a resident of Jalandhar, who had a close shave said, “I had come to the court with my son to see a lawyer. As the lawyers were on strike, we decided to return. Minutes before the bomb went off, I had been on the second floor. When I heard the explosion, I though some LPG gas cylinder had exploded in the canteen.“I thank God for another lease of life and also pray for the speedy recovery of the injured victims,” he added. Gurman Singh, who drafts legal documents in a room on the second floor, said he had stepped out of the courts complex to have tea when the blast took place. “The spot where the blast took place is usually very busy. You can find most of us moving around for work. But fortunately, we managed to step out on time. The police and administration must increase security arrangement at such crowded places,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-court-blast-victims-recount-horror-101640293216111.html
24-12-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana police book five for snatching tempo traveller||A resident of Haibowal Khurd and his aides have been booked for allegedly snatching a tempo traveller.The accused have been identified as Manjinder Singh of Haibowal Khurd, Gurwinder Singh and their three accomplices who are yet to be identified.The FIR has been lodged following the statement of Ram Lal of Bhora Colony, Salem Tabri. Lal stated that he bought the tempo traveller from Manjinder Singh in October 2018. He added that on August 28, Gurwinder had hired the vehicle for travelling and the accused had robbed the vehicle after thrashing the driver. Later, the vehicle was found in the premises of Manjinder Singh. He had filed a complaint on August 30.ASI Jagjit Singh, who is investigating the case, stated that a case under Sections 379-B (snatching) and 34 (common intention) of Indian Penal Code has been registered. A hunt is on for the arrest of the accused.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-police-book-five-for-snatching-tempo-traveller-101640293101562.html
24-12-2021||Chandigarh||Rumblings in HP Congress as 8 leaders bat for change in guard||Months after their victory in the Himachal Pradesh bypolls, factionalism has reared its head in the Grand Old Party yet again with legislators owing allegiance to former Congress committee president Sukhwinder Singh ‘Sukhu’ demanding a change of guard. Eight legislators – Jagat Singh Negi (Kinnaur), Rohit Thakur (Jubbal-Kotkhai), Anirudh Singh (Kasumpti), Satpal Singh Raizada (Una), Lakhwinder Singh Rana (Nalagarh), Sunder Singh Thakur (Kullu), Sanjay Awasthi (Arki), and Pawan Kajal (Kangra) – met All India Congress Committee ( AICC) Himachal in-charge Rajiv Shukla in New Delhi, and demanded that Sukhu either be made Himachal Congress president or leader of the Congress Legislature Party.Sukhu, who is a legislator from Nadaun, Hamirpur, has been campaigning in the Capital after he underwent a surgery at a private hospital there. Soon after the death of Virbhadra Singh in July, a battle for one-upmanship had begun in the Congress party. However, it intensified after the Congress won Fatehpur, Arki, Jubbal Kotkhai and the Mandi Lok Sabha seat. Two MLAs owing allegiance to Sukhu, Sanjay Awasthi and Rohit Thakur, won the bypolls from Arki and Jubbal-Kotkhai, respectively. Been at daggers since 2017 poll debacleThe factions owing allegiance to former six-time chief minister Virbhadra Singh and Sukhu, a four-time MLA, have been at daggers with each other since the 2017 poll debacle, when the veteran leader had backed journalist-turned-political leader Mukesh Agnihotri as leader of the Congress Legislature Party. Sukhu had also been replaced as chairperson of the Pradesh Congress Committee ahead of the Lok Sabha polls due to his differences with Virbhadra Singh ahead of the Lok Sabha elections. Kuldeep Singh Rathore, once a close associate of former Union Minister Anand Sharma, had replaced Sukhu, after joining the six-time CM’s camp. Congress co-in-charge for Himachal Pradesh, AICC secretary Sanjay Dutt, had recently sought feedback from Congress legislators in Dharamshala during a five-day winter session, where in many legislators had expressed unhappiness over the functioning of the Congress committee under Rathore.Do not read much into meeting: Congress However, the incumbent Himachal Congress Committee chief, said, “Not much inference should be drawn from the legislators’ meeting with the state in-charge. Leaders keep meeting office bearers in Delhi. I had also recently met with Congress president Sonia Gandhi in Delhi.” Speaking at a four-day party training camp at Trilokpuri, Sirmaur, Rathore exhorted office bearers and workers to work unitedly to strength the party. 
24-12-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana police book NRI for polygamy||An NRI has been booked polygamy and marrying a city woman without revealing his two prior marriages to her.The accused has been identified as Akashdeep Singh of Uttarakhand, his father Varinderjit Singh, mother Sukhvir Kaur, brother Kanwardeep Singh and fourth wife Avinash Kaur. Akashdeep also has a one-year-old daughter with Avinash.The FIR has been lodged following the statement of Mona Singh of Sarabha Nagar of Ludhiana, who is mother of the victim Jannat Singh.In her complaint, she said stated that she found Akashdeep through the matrimonial column of a newspaper on May 25, 2014. On January 25, 2015, Akashdeep and Jannat got married.From February 27, 2015, the couple had started living together in a rented accommodation in Seattle. Akashdeep Singh had taken $36,770 from Jannat’s sister and father for paying the rent. Akashdeep had also mortgaged Jannat’s jewellery without her consent.Mona stated that her daughter found out that Akashdeep was married twice before her, but he had concealed it from her. When she objected to it the accused started harassing her.Mona Singh further added that on December 20, 2019 Akashdeep had solemnised a marriage with Avinash Kaur and had a one-year-old daughter with her. She had filed a complaint to the police on June 5, 2021. The FIR has been lodged following an investigation conducted by the joint commissioner of police (JCP).A case under Sections 406, 420, 494, 498A and 120-B of IPC has been lodged against the accused at Division Number 5 police station. ASI Gurcharan Singh, who is investigating the case, said that a hunt is on for the arrest of the accused.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-police-book-nri-for-polygamy-101640292915565.html
24-12-2021||Chandigarh||Mullanpur-Dakha accorded sub-division status||To woo voters in the Mullanpur Dakha constituency, which has proved a tough nut to crack for the Congress all these years, Punjab chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi accorded it a sub-division status on Thursday. Addressing a rally at the new grain market on Raikot road, to garner support for Captain Sandeep Singh Sandhu in the upcoming assembly elections, the CM also promised an ITI College at Latala village, ₹5 crore for development works in Dakha and a new government college in Sidhwan Bet. He later inaugurated a bus stand at Mullanpur Dakha which has been named after martyr Kartar Singh Sarabha.Pertinently, Sandhu had lost the Dakha bypolls to SAD’s Manpreet Singh Ayali in 2019 by a margin of 14,672 votes even as former Punjab CM Captain Amarinder Singh had addressed massive rallies in his support. In 2012 too, Ayali had won the assembly seat, following which Aam Aadmi Party’s HS Phoolka won in 2017. Chief minister Channi, however, expressed immense faith in Sandhu and said the latter had made untiring efforts for the development of the constituency. Captain Sandhu, who was known to be one of the loyalists of former CM Captain Amarinder Singh, took a dig at the latter and said that such a huge rally wouldn’t have been possible in Dakha before Channi took over as CM.Meanwhile Punjab cabinet minister Bharat Bhushan Ashu praised the CM for taking several landmark decisions for the welfare of the people in Punjab. Praising the CM, Ashu said, “It is good to see so many cabinet meetings held during the three months under Charanjit Singh Channi. He is always eager to work for public interest and welfare which keeps us on our toes and keeps the Congress party workers motivated.” 
24-12-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana court complex blast: Nurses suspend strike to treat two injured||Nurses at the civil hospital suspended their eight-day strike to tend to two of those who were injured in the district court complex blast on Thursday and admitted to the emergency ward. Soon after the blast was reported, health department officials led by civil surgeon SP Singh reached the civil hospital and the nurses were approached so that the injured can get the required treatment. Around 200 nurses across the district have been on strike against the state government since December 16 over recommendations of the 6th pay commission and demand for payment of allowances. The working of the hospital has been hit badly and is dependent on contractual staff and final year nursing students of Mohan Dai Oswal hospital.District president of the nurses association, Asha, said, “The strike was suspended on Thursday as emergency services had to be provided to the injured. Few nurses are working in the emergency only. The strike will continue and it was suspended just to treat the injured in the blast.”Meanwhile, civil surgeon Dr Singh said that all arrangements were made at the civil hospital and only two injured women were admitted. They are both stable and currently undergoing treatment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-court-complex-blast-nurses-suspend-strike-to-treat-two-injured-101640292616777.html
24-12-2021||Chandigarh||With 3 days to go for PM’s Mandi rally, Jai Ram takes stock of preparation||With only three days to go for the Prime Minister’s visit to Mandi district, chief minister Jai Ram Thakur on Thursday reviewed the preparations underway with senior officials of the administration. Asking officials to ensure that the event, which is to take place on December 27, was a “historic” one, the CM said proper transportation, food, and water should be arranged for beneficiaries of different schemes attending the Prime Minister’s rally. “Each bus carrying beneficiaries from different parts of the state should be accompanied by a liaison officer, and should reach the venue well in time,” he said. “Traffic should flow smoothly, and there should be sufficient parking for buses and other vehicles that will be part of the rally. Police must also ensure that the general public does not face any inconvenience on the day of the rally,” he said. While transport minister Bikram Singh, HRTC managing director Sandeep Kumar, and deputy commissioners of different districts attended the meeting virtually, political advisor to the CM Trilok Jamwal, officer on special duty to the chief minister Mahinder Dharmani, chief secretary Ram Subhag Singh, director general of police Sanjay Kundu, Mandi deputy commissioner Arindam Chaudhary, Mandi superintendent of police Shalini Agnihotri, information and public relations director Harbans Singh Brascon attended the meeting, which was held in Mandi, in-person.CM inaugurates 500 LPM PSA plant in Sundernagar 
24-12-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana court complex blast: Chinks exposed in premises’ security||The bomb blast at the new court complex has exposed chinks in the security of the premises. According to the lawyers, the complex has multiple entrances and most of the entry points are not guarded by the police at all times and anyone can enter without checking. Moreover, there are no CCTVs installed at the entrance and exit points.There is a police post on the premises, but there aren’t enough personnel to man all the gates and frisk every visitor. Gurkirat Singh Gill, president of the District Bar Association, said that as thousands of visitors visit the complex every day, the police need to beproactive.According to onlookers, the fire brigade took at least 30 minutes to reach the spot after the blast and before the ambulances reached, victims had already been rushed to the hospital.Deputy chief minister Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa, who reached the spot in the afternoon, stated that due to ongoing protests by the farmers outside the mini-secretariat, police were deputed there to avoid any untoward situation. The accused took advantage of the situation and managed to bring the explosives inside the court complex, he added. After the bomb blast, police made the farmers lift the protestRandhawa said that ₹17 crore has already been announced to strengthen police infrastructure. He also announced the expansion of the PCR motorcycle squad.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-court-complex-blast-chinks-exposed-in-premises-security-101640292495599.html
24-12-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana court blast: Protesting farmers move outside mini-secretariat amid security concerns||Amid heightened security concerns in view of the blast that took place in the washroom of the Ludhiana courts complex on Thursday, farmers protesting outside the DC office have shifted outside the mini-secretariat complex. The mini-secretariat complex is located right behind the courts complex. The farmers, under the banner of Bhartiya Kisan Union (Ugrahan), have been staging a sit-in at the mini-secretariat since Monday over unfulfilled promises of the state government, including debt waiver, compensation for damaged cotton crop, state advisory price (SAP) for sugarcane, among other demands. Prepared for a long-haul, they had brought along gas cylinders, wheat, vegetables, mattresses and other necessities. On Tuesday, they had even confined deputy commissioner (DC) Varinder Sharma in his office for over four hours. Though chief minister (CM) Charanjit Singh Channi met the union leaders on Thursday and agreed to most of their demands, the farmers decided to carry on with their protest. They, however, agreed to shift the protest site outside the mini-secretariat complex in view of security concerns. Raikot in-charge of the farmers’ union, Gurpreet Singh said, “We were protesting outside the DC office building when we heard the explosion. Panic gripped the vicinity and the cops asked us move out of the complex due to security reasons. We agreed to change the site. The protest will continue on Friday but it will be outside the mini-secretariat complex.”He added that the union will have the next meeting with the state government on December 30.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-court-blast-protesting-farmers-move-outside-mini-secretariat-amid-security-concerns-101640292435004.html
24-12-2021||Chandigarh||Omicron scare: 4 int’l travellers test Covid +ve in Ludhiana, samples sent for genome sequencing||Amid rising concerns over the Omicron variant of Covid-19, four international travellers tested positive in the city om Thursday. They are among the six fresh cases reported in the district in the last 24 hours, said district health department officials.Out of the four travellers, three are of a family that came from USA, while the other is their relative who arrived from Canada. They had tested negative on their arrival at the airport. All of them reside in Dugri, Phase 1, and came to the city within the last 10 days. They have mild symptoms and are under home isolation.Civil surgeon Dr SP Singh said that the samples of the international travellers have been sent for genome sequencing to check if they are infected by the omicron variant. Till now, no case of omicron variant has been reported in the district, he added.Meanwhile, the total count of Covid cases in the district has reached 87,741, of which 2,116 patients have succumbed to the disease. As many as 85,591 patients have recovered and 34 are still battling the disease.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/omicron-scare-4-int-l-travellers-test-covid-ve-in-ludhiana-samples-sent-for-genome-sequencing-101640292254853.html
24-12-2021||Chandigarh||Amid Omicron spread, HP hospitals told to brace for pandemic resurgence||With the highly transmissible Omicron variant of the coronavirus sending alarm bells ringing through the hill state, the Himachal Pradesh government has asked health institutions to brace themselves for a possible resurgence of the Covid pandemic. Issuing an advisory to all chief medical officers across the 12 districts, health department officials said, “Measures need to be taken in view of initial signs of a surge in Covid cases, as well as increased detection of the variant of concern (VoC), Omicron.” District health authorities have been directed to keep track of the spread of Covid cases, hospital infrastructure and its utilisation, manpower available at hospitals, and to notify containment zones, and enforce their perimeter. “This evidence should be the basis for effective decision making at district level so that the virus is contained locally,” the advisory, which also outlines the framework to be used for decision-making, said.Guidelines for containment As per the guidelines, coronavirus restrictions will be imposed in case a district reports over 10% positivity in a week, or 40% patients are on oxygen support or admitted to the Intensive Care Unit (ICU). “However, based on the local situation and population characteristics such as density, and keeping in view the higher transmissibility of Omicron, the district can take containment measures before these thresholds are reached,” the advisory quantified. The health authorities have been asked to focus on containment, testing, tracking, surveillance, clinical management, vaccination and observation of Covid-appropriate behaviour. Should the need arise, the authorities may reimpose night curfew, restrictions on large gatherings, capping attendence in marriages and funerals, staggering staff in offices, industries, and public transport. Told to increase bed capacity, arrange ambulances, O2 Districts have been advised to increase bed capacity, other logistics such as ambulances, a mechanism for seamless shifting of patients, availability and operational readiness of oxygen equipment and a buffer stock of drugs. It also advises to ensure stringent enforcement of home isolation as per extant guidelines,100% coverage of left out first and second dose eligible beneficiaries in an accelerated manner. “Special focus should be on districts where th first and second dose coverage is less than the national average. The door-to-door vaccination campaign needs to be strengthened,” said director, National Health Mission, Hemraj Bhairwa. 
24-12-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab CM Channi’s meetings with farm organisations a formality: AAP||Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) MLA and kisan wing state president Kultar Singh Sandhwan on Thursday accused the Congress government of not resolving the issues of farmers, terming the meetings held by chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi with farmers’ organisations as a “formality”. Sandhwan said the decisions taken by the state government after its previous meetings with the farmer union leaders had not yet been implemented. People would hold the Congress government accountable for the breach of promises, he said in a press release. The AAP leader said that during the 2017 assembly elections, the Congress had promised to waive all kinds of debts of farmers and provide financial assistance to those who committed suicide due to debt burden. “The government has neither waived debt of the farmers nor provided financial assistance even after five years,” he claimed, adding that the cases registered by the Punjab Police against the farmers during their agitation were still under consideration.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-cm-channi-s-meetings-with-farm-organisations-a-formality-aap-101640291957138.html
24-12-2021||Chandigarh||Drug FIR against Bikram Majithia: SAD to protest outside Ludhiana police chief’s office today||Accusing Punjab Pradesh Congress Committee (PPCC) president Navjot Singh Sidhu of indulging in vendetta politics against former cabinet minister Bikram Majithia, the Ludhiana unit of Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) has announced to stage a protest outside the office of police commissioner Gurpreet Bhullar on Friday. Addressing a press conference at Gurdwara Dukhniwaran Sahib on Thursday, SAD’s district unit chief Harbhajan Singh Dang said that Sidhu is behind the drug FIR lodged against Majithia, and it has been done to tarnish the party’s image ahead of the assembly elections slated early next year. “The sole aim is to defame SAD and Majithia ahead of elections. Even former chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh has stated that the FIR has been lodged falsely. SAD stands with Majithia,” said Dang. Youth Akali Dal (YAD) district chief Gurdeep Gosha said that earlier too Parkash Singh Badal and Sukhbir Badal were jailed by the Congress in a false case and the “Congress had to face the consequences” as people voted them out. “The same will be repeated this time when people will vote the SAD-BSP alliance into power,” said Gosha.Referring to the bomb blast that took place in the court complex, YAD leader Manpreet Manna slammed the state government for the “deteriorating law and order situation in the state”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/drug-fir-against-bikram-majithia-sad-to-protest-outside-ludhiana-police-chief-s-office-today-101640291894922.html
24-12-2021||Chandigarh||Anti-national forces trying to disturb harmony in Punjab: BJP||Union minister and BJP’s Punjab election incharge Gajendra Singh Shekhawat said on Thursday that anti-national forces were trying to create an atmosphere like 1984 in the state but people will never let the harmony and peace be disturbed. Addressing mediapersons in Amritsar, Shekhawat said that the BJP has a vision to make Punjab free of drugs, mafia and corruption. “Punjab used to be a pioneer state in the country. Sadly, it has come down to 16th spot in terms of gross domestic product (GDP) in the country. The state also is home to the highest number of unemployed people. It also has a whooping loan of over ₹4 lakh crore with no roadmap to bring it out of economic duress,” he said. Shekhawat said Punjab being a border state has always risen to protect the country during wars. “Punjabis have been brave sons and daughters of this great nation and have always been the first to shed blood to protect the borders. Unfortunately, the previous governments in the state have not been true to its citizenry,” he added.Prime Minister Narendra Modi has a special respect for the state and as a statesman he understands the challenges it has faced, he claimed. Confident that the state was ready for a change, the Union minister said the BJP will be the choice of the voters for a better future of the state. A double engine government is what the state needs for a prosperous and peaceful future, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/antinational-forces-trying-to-disturb-harmony-in-punjab-bjp-101640291534158.html
24-12-2021||Chandigarh||Kapurthala lynching: Autopsy report finds over 30 injuries on youth’s body, no murder FIR yet||A team of five doctors entrusted with conducting postmortem on the unidentified youth, who was lynched by Sikh groups for allegedly disrespecting Nishan Sahib, the Sikh flag, at a gurdwara in Kapurthala district’s Nizampur village, has found nearly 30 injuries on the victim’s body. Addressing the media on Thursday, officiating senior medical officer (SMO) Narinder Singh said the main injuries were on the neck, hips and the head. “There were multiple stab wounds on the victim’s body parts. We have collected viscera for further examination to check whether he had consumed any intoxicant. We have also taken samples of his teeth, hair and blood for the DNA test. The exact reason of the death will be clear from the final report,” he added. The police have neither registered any fresh FIR with murder charges against the Sikh groups nor added murder section in the existing report that was registered under Section 295-A (hurting the religious sentiment) of the Indian Penal Code against the youth. The officials had said that they would investigate the murder charges in the same FIR. The police had said there was “no visible sign” of sacrilege and it appeared that the youth, who was in his twenties, had come with the intention of committing theft in the gurdwara. The body was cremated after the postmortem even as it was kept for identification for at least 72 hours. No one claimed the body or identified the victim. The case was registered on the statement of Amarjit Singh, the shrine caretaker, against the youth for allegedly hurting religious sentiments.Amarjit’s claim, however, has been found to be contradictory. In a video that surfaced on social media, he admitted that the youth had not committed sacrilege with Guru Granth Sahib and even had food in the gurdwara. In another video, he is heard saying that the suspect was sent by someone from New Delhi for executing desecration by giving him money.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/kapurthala-lynching-autopsy-report-finds-over-30-injuries-on-youth-s-body-no-murder-fir-yet-101640291056604.html
24-12-2021||Chandigarh||Golden Temple lynching: Suspect paid obeisance in sanctum sanctorum 17 times before sacrilege bid||An unidentified youth, who was lynched over an attempt to commit desecration at the Golden Temple in Amritsar on December 18, paid obeisance in the sanctum sanctorum of the shrine 17 times in the last four days, the special investigation team (SIT) probing the matter on Thursday said. On the day of the incident itself, the suspect paid obeisance four times, SIT head deputy commissioner of police (DCP) Parminder Singh Bhandal said. “He waited for at least one-and-half-hours every time he went inside. Also, a day before the incident (on December 17), he paid obeisance in the sanctum sanctorum eight times. In our investigation so far, we have found that he went to pay obeisance on December 16 and 15 three and two times, respectively. He was also found sleeping in the Dharam Singh Market on December 17 night,” the DCP added. Their teams were working to trace the route of the accused and establish his identity, he said citing the closed-circuit television (CCTV) footage. Police teams are now examining the CCTV cameras installed at the Amritsar railway station and the bus stand to find where the suspect came from as his identity is still wrapped in mystery. A senior police official, who is part of the investigation, said, “We also examined the CCTV footage of December 16 and 17 from the bus stand and the railway station, but he was not spotted there. Now, our teams will scan the CCTV cameras at the railway station and the bus stand and other public places from December 13 to 15 to trace his route.” The youth remained outside the Golden Temple since December 16 and didn’t even change his clothes, the official said, adding that he was not accompanied by anyone. Amritsar police commissioner Sukhchain Singh Gill said their teams haven’t found any clues about the suspect as of now. State home minister Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa had constituted a special investigation team (SIT) led by deputy commissioner of police (DCP) Parminder Singh Bhandal and directed to submit a report within two days. The SIT, however, is yet to file its report even as it has been five days since the incident took place. Don’t air footage, SGPCurges news channels The Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (SGPC) has appealed to news channels not to air the footage of the incident, saying it is hurting the sentiments of the devotees. “The sentiments of the Sikh sangat (community) are being hurt with the playing of clips of viral videos by the television (TV) channels during their debates related to the unfortunate incident of sacrilege at Sri Harmandar Sahib, SGPC additional secretary Sukhdev Singh Bhurakohna said repeatedly playing the clips from viral videos during the debates and discussions related to this incident by the TV channels is hurting the minds of the Sikh community. “We have no objection to the channels discussing this issue but it is not appropriate to play the clips over and over again as it is related to the sentiments of the sangat,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/golden-temple-lynching-suspect-paid-obeisance-in-sanctum-sanctorum-17-times-before-sacrilege-bid-101640290274724.html
24-12-2021||Chandigarh||Will abide by Akali Dal’s decision on role ahead of assembly polls: Ex-Punjab CM Badal||Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) patriarch and five-time Punjab chief minister Parkash Singh Badal on Thursday said he would abide by the party’s decision and perform duty assigned to him ahead of the Punjab assembly elections scheduled early 2022. Addressing a press conference along with SAD president Sukhbir Singh Badal after attending the party’s core committee meeting, the former CM said, “I am 94 years old and I have given my entire life to the Akali Dal. I will even lay my life for the party, if the need arises.” The SAD, which is contesting the upcoming polls in alliance with the Bahujan Samaj party (BSP) by allotting it 20 seats, has announced candidates for all but five segments, including Lambi that Badal senior represents in the assembly. Badal evaded a query on his becoming CM in case their party wins in the upcoming polls. “The CM’s post is a small issue as there are bigger concerns we are facing,” he said. On the recent sacrilege attempts, he said the Congress has been using devious methods to divide the people of the state. SAD to protest ‘police inaction’ in sacrilege bid Sukhbir said the party will hold a protest at the Golden Temple in Amritsar on January 2 in protest against the government’s alleged inaction in recent attempts of sacrilege. He demanded that a sitting high court judge should monitor probe into the recent incidents of sacrilege, rejecting the investigation initiated by the state government. “The Congress government failed to unravel the conspiracy behind such cases despite the fact that the Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (SGPC) handed over a man to police after he threw the Gutka Sahib into the ‘sarovar’ at Darbar Sahib. Had this case been investigated properly, the December 18 incident could have been averted,” he said. The state government had promised to unravel the conspiracy within 48 hours after the December 15 sacrilege but nothing happened, he added. The Thursday’s bomb blast in Ludhiana was also direct fallout of the conspiracies being hatched to destabilise the peace of the state, he claimed. “DGP Chattopadhay is temporary and incompetent. His name was not included in the panel for appointment of the DGP by the Centre,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/will-abide-by-akali-dal-s-decision-on-role-ahead-of-assembly-polls-ex-punjab-cmbadal-101640289914587.html
24-12-2021||Delhi||Delhi’s south civic body opens ICU ward in Tilak Nagar facility||With the number of Covid cases once again rising in Delhi and concerns being raised about the Omicron variant, the South Delhi Municipal Corporation has decided to operationalise an ICU ward in Tilak Nagar colony hospital for a possible third wave. The 10-bedded ICU ward is equipped with ventilators, oxygen plant and other lifesaving equipment, a senior health department official said adding that a 24 hour emergency service will now be available in this ward.Standing Committee Chairman Col. (retd.) B K Oberoi said that the corporation is improving health services and infrastructure in view of possible third wave of Covid-19 and the agency is trying to provide proper medical services to the citizens. SDMC Mayor Mukesh Suryan said that the corporation is trying to add resources to its health facilities despite facing a fund crisis. “The ICU ward has been operationalised with the help of NGOs like Project Hope and Society For All Round Development,” he addedThe long-delayed colony hospital project in Tilak Nagar still remains a work in progress more than six years after the project was initiated. The project to develop a multispecialty hospital in Tilak Nagar was started in 2015. The ground and first floors of the 100-bed Tilak Nagar hospital were finally opened for the public in January 2020. The five-storey building is spread over an area of 19,157.53 sq m. and construction work has cost ₹64.5 crore.The south corporation had opened a 15-bed dengue ward in the facility in November while a 10-bed dialysis center has also been added in October on a PPP mode where patients can avail services on subsidized rates. “We have enough provisions to revive a Covid ward in the facility on a short notice,” an official stated. During the last five months, SDMC has also operationalized oxygen in Purnima Sethi, Mata Gujri at Tilak Nagar and Chest &TB hospital at Nehru Nagar which can be used as Covid treatment facilities, official added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhis-south-civic-body-opens-icu-ward-in-tilak-nagar-facility-101640289854938.html
24-12-2021||Chandigarh||Chitkara University alumna awarded DAAD Prize||Chitkara University alumnus Shipra Durejar was awarded the DAAD Award for excellence in academics. The prize is awarded by the German Academic Exchange Service (DAAD) annually by the University of Magdeburg, Germany, to foreign students.Since 1997, the DAAD Prize has been awarded to a student from the University of Magdeburg with special academic achievements and exceptional volunteer works.Shipra Dureja completed her computer science engineering from Chitkara University in 2016. After being placed from campus, she worked as a senior development engineer for three years. She began her master’s degree in “Data and Knowledge Engineering” at the University of Magdeburg in 2019. In September 2021, she completed her master’s degree with a very good grade after just five semesters, making her one of the best and fastest students in her degree programme. She headed the management team of the academic club of the faculty of computer science and was also student leader for a year. She was active in projects & developed other forms of support for international master’s students.Expressing her gratitude to her alma mater, Dureja said, “I owe my success to Chitkara University’s strong academic mentorship, globally relevant curriculum and spirit of enterprise. These things impact a student’s journey in academics and research and have significant importance in the present fast-paced world.”Congratulating Dureja, Madhu Chitkara, pro chancellor, Chitkara University, said, “Shipra is a committed and inquisitive young woman and was a truly outstanding student throughout her four years at Chitkara. With her outstanding achievements, remarkable social and inter-cultural commitments, she serves as an important role model for other Indian as well as international students. I am thrilled that she has been conferred with the coveted DAAD Award for her performance & volunteer works, making Chitkara and India proud.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chitkara-university-alumna-awarded-daad-prize-101640289614494.html
24-12-2021||Chandigarh||Farmer leaders meet Punjab CM Channi, stick to complete debt waiver demand||Representatives of 32 farm organisations from Punjab on Thursday met chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi and refused to make any concession on their demand for a complete debt waiver for farmers. According to an estimate, the state farmers are under a debt of ₹90,000 crore. In the meeting, Channi offered to release pending ₹1,200 crore to clear the loans up to ₹2 lakh under the existing debt waiver scheme. The government, he said, will cover 1.09 lakh farmers in small and marginal category and amount will be waived in 10-12 days. Jagmohan Singh, general secretary of the Bhartiya Kisan Union (Dakounda), which was part of the 32 unions that met the CM, said, “We want complete debt waiver as Channi promised in the previous meeting with farmer leaders last month.”Key farmer leaders Balbir Singh Rajewal and Joginder SIngh Ugrahan were among those who attended the meeting. Channi announced to bring small and marginal farmers with landholdings up to 5 acres, who have taken loans up to ₹2 lakh from the Punjab State Cooperative Agriculture Development Bank (PSCADB), within the ambit of debt waiver scheme. The unions also demanded cancellation of the FIRs registered against farmers during the agitation against the 3 farm laws, compensation for land acquired for highways and toll-free movement of their vehicles. The CM promised to cancel all the FIRs registered by the Punjab Police against the farmers protesting against the farm laws by December 31 and issued directions to the director general of police (DGP) to complete the formalities. Terming it a “good meeting”, Channi assured the farmers that he will talk to Union minister of road transport and highways Nitin Gadkari for increase in compensation for land acquired by the Centre for highway projects. He also gave appointment letters on compassionate grounds to next of the kin of 17 farmers who died during the farm agitation. In an attempt to woo the farmers, he announced to construct a state-of-the-art memorial for farmers over 5 acres. Now, the next meeting between the farmers’ representatives and the CM is scheduled on December 29. During the tenure of Amarinder Singh as CM, the state government had disbursed ₹4,610 crore in debt waiver to about 5.63 lakh farmers. Cabinet ministers Randeep Singh Nabha, Vijay Inder Singla, Aruna Chaudary and Raj Kumar Verka besides chief secretary Anirudh Tewari were also present in the meeting.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/farmer-leaders-meet-punjab-cm-channi-stick-to-complete-debt-waiver-demand-101640289556614.html
24-12-2021||Other||Congress govt’s lack of will weakened sacrilege probe: AAP||Faridkot AAP leader and former IG Kunwar Vijay Pratap Singh has said that the lack of intent shown by the Congress government had weakened the Behbal Kalan and Kotkapura firing cases investigation in courts. He said this at the Behbal Kalan village in Faridkot district, where he met Sukhraj Singh, son of 2015 Behbal Kalan police firing victim Bhagwan Krishan Singh, whose protest sit-in for justice, entered the eighth day on Thursday||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/congress-govt-s-lack-of-will-weakened-sacrilege-probe-aap-101640288294366.html
24-12-2021||Chandigarh||3 bank employees killed as car overturns in Tarn Taran||TARN TARAN: Three bank employees, including two women, were killed when a Honda City car they were travelling in overturned near Kale village falling under the Bhikhiwind sub-division on Thursday morning.Manager of Mari Gaur Singh branch of Kotak Mohindra Bank Jasbir Singh, area manager Baljit Kaur and cashier Navdeep Kaur died on the spot, said police.The incident took place around 8.30 am when they were on their way to the bank branch in Mari Gaur Singh village. The body of one of the women was taken out of the car after around an hour’s efforts, said eyewitnesses. Bank’s security guard Onkar Singh, who also reached the spot along with a police team, said Jasbir was driving the car from Amritsar. He said: “Jasbir used to pick Baljit Kaur from Amritsar and Navdeep from Patti in his car to reach the bank. When they reached near Kale village, their car overturned.”The Bhikhiwind police have initiated inquest proceedings under Section 174 of the CrPC. The bodies have been handed over to family members after conducting post-mortem, said a police official.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/3-bank-employees-killed-as-car-overturns-in-tarn-taran-101640287934361.html
24-12-2021||Chandigarh||4th day rail roko stir: 79 trains cancelled in Punjab’s Ferozepur division||BATHINDA: A total of 130 trains were affected in the Ferozepur railway division as the indefinite “rail roko” agitation by the Kisan Mazdoor Sanghrash Committee (KMSC) entered the fourth day on Thursday.Official spokesperson of the division said 79 trains, including 46 express and mail and 33 passenger type services, were cancelled on Thursday. As the trains were unable to reach their designated stations, 51 trains were short terminated or originated.Owing to the blockade, passengers from various districts of Punjab, Himachal Pradesh and Jammu are suffering as their connectivity has been snapped.Railway officials said the services in the division were severely hit after the KMSC activists squatted on railway tracks at four places namely Manawala in Amritsar, Tanda in Hoshiarpur, Tarn Taran and Ferozepur from Monday. For the past two days, agitators have started gathering on railway tracks in Fazilka and Jalandhar Cantt.Routes on seven sections of Jalandhar-Amritsar, Jalandhar Cantt- Pathankot Cantt, Amritsar-Khemkaran, Ferozepur-Bathinda, Ferozepur-Ludhiana, Fazilka- Kotkapura and Jalandhar-Sanhewal are worst hit.The KMSC is demanding a complete loan waiver and compensation to families whose members died during the course of the stir against the Centre’s farm laws. They are also demanding the cancellation of police cases registered against farmers who protested against the laws.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/4th-day-rail-roko-stir-79-trains-cancelled-in-punjab-s-ferozepur-division-101640287694495.html
24-12-2021||Chandigarh||Chitkara University, International School launch collaborative research project||To promote interdisciplinary research, Chitkara University, Himachal Pradesh, and Chitkara International School have launched a collaborative research project to encourage tie-ups between the faculty and students.Around 12 to 14 teams have been formed from both institutions to work on the collaborative research initiative with Sartajvir Singh, IPR Cell Coordinator, Chitkara University, Himachal Pradesh, as the mentor.Chitkara International School director Niyati Chitkara said, “It is an excellent opportunity for our young thinkers who have been mentored by senior academicians from Chitkara University and this will go a long way in developing a scientific temperament among the school students.”“The foundation of societal advancement lies in innovation. Universities are not only repositories of innovation but also provide thought leadership on scientific, ethical and social issues which confront society when advancements take place due to innovations. With the help of the project, more than 50 faculty members and students have benefitted from both the campuses,” said Manoj Manuja, pro vice chancellor, Chitkara University.“Moreover, it gives me immense pleasure to share that we have reached the next logical milestone of our on-going vibrant collaboration with CIS team which has resulted in filing 12 joint patents on novel ideas. Apart from CU-HP and CIS faculty, we also have students from CIS as the primary contributors towards this initiative and joint owners of the filed patents,”said Manuja.On the importance of patents, IPR cell coordinator, Sartajvir Singh said, “Innovations and patents are intricately linked. Patents help to create ownership over innovations and facilitate investments and commercialization. They also help in dissemination of knowledge owing to legal requirements for open publication and also create respect and recognition for the innovators and the institutions, in the event of commercialisation owing to technologically advanced products which benefit society.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chitkara-university-international-school-launch-collaborative-research-project-101640287634446.html
24-12-2021||Gurugram||Municipal Corporation of Gurugram postpones house meeting for second time||The house meeting of the Municipal Corporation of Gurugram (MCG) was deferred for the second consecutive time on Thursday, said officials.The house meeting, which was scheduled to take place at the John Hall in Civil Lines at 2pm on Thursday, has been postponed to December 27, according to a public order issued by the MCG around 11am. “No official reason” was stated for the move, but the civic body mayor, Madhu Azad, said that the “councillors had voiced concerns about the timing of the meeting as the house usually holds such meetings around 11am or 11.30am”.“The house meeting usually takes place in the morning, however, senior MCG officials and I had a prior commitment at the CRPF passing out parade on Thursday morning, due to which the meeting was scheduled in the afternoon,” said Azad, adding that she “received requests from councillors to defer the house meeting on Thursday”.“A few councillors had also requested me over the phone if the house meeting could be deferred, because by the time the meeting would have finished, it would be extremely cold at night. After getting unanimous consents from more councillors and MCG officials, it was jointly decided to postpone the meeting Monday,” said Azad.Earlier, the house meeting was postponed at the penultimate hour on December 15, after MCG commissioner Mukesh Kumar Ahuja mentioned a personal commitment in Chandigarh, and the councillors did not want to hold the meeting in his absence. Upgrading water lines in privately developed colonies in DLF phases 1-2 and Sushant Lok 1, encroachments near Golf Course Road (GCR), and allotting land for building one Uttarakhand Bhawan, were among the key topics that were supposed to be discussed in the meeting.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/municipal-corporation-of-gurugram-postpones-house-meeting-for-second-time-101640287514332.html
24-12-2021||Delhi||Man held for stealing luggage at stations, ISBTs in Delhi||A 54-year-old man was arrested for allegedly stealing luggage and trolley bags from elderly passengers after offering to help them carry their belongings at railway stations and interstate bus terminals in Delhi, police said. Referring to him as a “wily criminal”, the police said the well dressed man roamed around public places in search of targets. He stole nearly 150 trolley bags and luggage in the last two years but was never caught, the police said.On October 18, a 56-year-old woman from Haryana’s Hisar filed a complaint at the Kashmere Gate police station, alleging that an unknown man, who introduced himself as a fellow passenger, offered to carry her bags at Kashmere Gate ISBT. She said she was travelling alone to Delhi from her hometown. The woman allowed him to carry her luggage but after a few minutes, the man disappeared with the bag that contained her clothes, mobile phone, some jewellery and documents, said deputy commissioner of police (north) Sagar Singh Kalsi.“We registered a case and checked footage from CCTV cameras at the bus terminal and found a man following the complainant. Footage from previous days were also examined, and it was found that the suspect committed similar thefts in the past as well. Through human intelligence network and technical surveillance, the suspect was identified as Suraj Prakash, a resident of Sahibabad in Ghaziabad. He was caught from near the bus terminal on Wednesday,” said Kalsi.The police took Prakash to his home and searched it. During the search 51 stolen trolley bags containing clothes and mobile phones were recovered. The clothes worn by Prakash at the time of the thefts were also seized from the house, they said.Prakash told the police that he completed his BSc from Meerut University in 90s, and then he ran a medical store on rent. However, a few years ago, he suffered losses in the business and shut it down. Around two years ago, Prakash started committing thefts, the DCP said.“Prakash mainly targeted elderly passengers, especially women, travelling alone. He roamed around such places and identified his targets. Thereafter, he offered help in carrying the bags. He used to follow the victim for some time, and then finding an opportunity disappeared along with the passenger’s luggage. Prakash didn’t use any vehicle,” added DCP Kalsi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/man-held-for-stealing-luggage-at-stns-isbts-in-delhi-101640287214375.html
24-12-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab CM meets guv, urges him to approve 12 pending bills||Chandigarh : Chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi met Punjab governor Banwarilal Purohit on Thursday and requested him to grant assent to 12 bills awaiting approval. The chief minister, who called the governor at Raj Bhawan here, urged him to approve these bills, including the one passed for regularisation of contractual employees, at the earliest as the code of conduct for the assembly election was likely to kick in anytime. “Of the bills passed by us, 12 bills are still to be granted assent by the governor because of which our work has come to a standstill,” he told reporters after the meeting. He was accompanied chief secretary Anirudh Tewari and principal secretary to chief minister Hussan Lal. Channi said he requested the governor to approve these pending bills quickly as he wanted to do these things quickly. “To which he (governor) said that he will look at the bills on Monday. We do not know when these bills will get the approval,” he added. The bills pending with the governor for approval include the Punjab Protection and Regularisation of Contractual Employees’ Bill, Punjab Contract Farming (Repeal) Bill, Punjab Right to Business (Amendment) Bill, Punjab Good and Services Tax (Amendment) Bill, Punjab Official Language (Amendment) Bill, Punjab Learning of Punjabi and Other Languages (Amendment) Bill, Punjab Affiliated Colleges (Security of Service) Amendment Bill, Punjab One-Time Voluntary Disclosure and Settlement of Building Constructed in Violation of Building Bye-laws Bill, Punjab Agricultural Produce Markets Bill, Punjab (Institution and Other Buildings) Tax (Repeal) Bill, Punjab Fruit Nurseries (Amendment) Bill and the Punjab Fiscal Responsibility and Budget Management (Second Amendment) Bill.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-cm-meets-guv-urges-him-to-approve-12-pending-bills-101640287154439.html
24-12-2021||Gurugram||One year later, Municipal Corporation of Manesar battling transfer of amenities||Officials of the Municipal Corporation of Manesar (MCM), which completed one year since its formation on Thursday, said that the civic body has brought about an improvement in sanitation and garbage collection in the area, even though it is still at a nascent stage. In contrast, roads and drainage infrastructure is still a work in progress, primarily due to the pending transfer of amenities, they added.The Haryana government approved the proposal to form the MCM on December 23 last year, thereby making it the 11th municipal corporation in the state. Until then, Manesar relied on Haryana State Industrial and Infrastructure Development Corporation (HSIIDC), Haryana Shahari Vikas Pradhikaran (HSVP), gram panchayat, and Gurugram Metropolitan Development Authority (GMDA) in parts which share a border with Gurugram for its civic amenities.Soon after its formation, the civic body’s first-ever commissioner, Vinay Pratap Singh, had said that the MCM team aimed at fixing sanitation and garbage collection issues across the city. “When we took charge of the MCM, each village merely had two officials for overseeing the garbage collection. Condominiums and societies had their own internal system. Many areas saw no garbage collection for more than two years too,” said Hariom Attri, joint commissioner of MCM.The civic body’s first decision was to increase its manpower. “With only 79 sanitation staff assigned to us by the government, the MCM started collecting garbage from across the city and created a mechanism through which garbage collection, transportation, processing, and dumping can take place. We hired private contractors and increased the total sanitation staff strength to over 850 after we figured out the mechanism,” said Attri.Roads in Manesar were cleaned for the first time in February this year, with the help of mechanised sweeping machines. According to Dr Ashish Singla, senior medical officer (SMO) and in-charge of Swachh Bharat Mission (SBM), the MCM officials carry around 200 tonnes of fresh garbage and 350 tonnes of legacy waste to a landfill in Bawal, located nearly 50 kilometres away, on a daily basis. Dumped waste lying at a location for more than a month is considered as legacy waste.“We also identified bulk waste generators (BWGs) across the city and ensured guidelines for in situ composting there. There are at least 110 BWGs in the city, of which, 73 were served notices for not adhering to the rules. We have also sent a tender to the directorate of urban local bodies (DULB) to treat legacy waste within Manesar instead of Bawal,” said Singla.The MCM aims to hire an agency and start door-to-door collection of waste in Manesar, set up material recovery facilities (MRF), and mass-scale composting units by mid-2022. While there has been progress in the sanitation and garbage collection process in the city, there is not much change in regards to roads and drainage so far, Attri added.“A lot of roads and drains are still with other public bodies. Transferring of services is underway, and we are anticipating that by the end of 2022, bulk of amenities will be handed over to the MCM. Besides, we have just started the process of collecting property tax. We will have limited income to fix the roads and drains under the MCM area, so we need a steady revenue system,” said a senior MCM official privy to the matter, adding that only a dozen new drains and roads each were added in the city in 2021.The Municipal Corporation of Gurugram (MCG), which was formed in 2008, got most of the civic amenities only in 2013, after being transferred from the HSVP. The transfer process continued till early 2018. GMDA also took charge of the remaining master drains from the HSVP in 2018.“The biggest problem is that there is still no clarity on which public body is managing which stretches. Residents do not know whom to approach... Until there is a proper demarcation, and areas are defined along with taking over of services, development will happen in the city in a haphazard manner,” according to Dharam Veer Singh, president of Mapsko Casabella RWA, Sector 82.
24-12-2021||Other||{Punjabi University fake billing scam} HC dismisses anticipatory bail pleas of nine accused||Chandigarh The high court on Thursday dismissed anticipatory bail pleas of nine accused, including some employees, in a fake billing scam reported in Punjabi University, Patiala. Those who got no relief from the high court are Ravi Kapoor, Harpreet Singh, Yogesh Kumar, Sukhdeep Singh, Gurmukh Singh, Dalip Kumar, Parminder Singh, Harpreet Singh and Naveen Kumar. The FIR in question was registered on August 1 on allegations of misappropriation of funds of the varsity by several of its employees, students and some outsiders as well. The allegations were of preparing forged and fabricated bills and securing release of huge amounts as scholarships. The amounts were got credited in the accounts of known persons by the accused and from whom they subsequently used to get back some amount in cash. They accused had approached the high court earlier this month, arguing that they had suffered at the hands of their colleague Nishu Chaudhary, who on the basis of false representation had talked them into allowing him to get amounts deposited in their accounts. Later, Chaudhary used to ask them to withdraw the said amounts in cash and to give it to him. Some of the petitioners had argued that he had extended loans which the innocent, gullible employees had taken and in some cases had also returned back the same. The court observed that there is documentary evidence against all the accused of having benefited of huge amounts ranging between ₹2 lakh and ₹90 lakh, which stands substantiated from the bank account statements that the investigating agency had collected. “In order to know about the exact extent of misappropriation/embezzlement and the manner in which the same was committed, the custodial interrogation of the petitioners would certainly be required,” the bench of justice Gurvinder Singh Gill, observed adding that one cannot lose sight of the fact that the amount misappropriated is the amount which was to be used for extending benefits to the needy and deserving students as scholarships, including benefits to the scheduled castes and scheduled communities, who all stands deprived of the huge amount.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/punjabi-university-fake-billing-scam-hc-dismisses-anticipatory-bail-pleas-of-nine-accused-101640286974244.html
24-12-2021||Chandigarh||Recruitment of asst profs: Seal recruitment record, put it in custody of Punjab chief secy: HC||Chandigarh: The Punjab and Haryana high court on Thursday directed the Punjab government to seal record pertaining to recruitment of assistant professors and put it in custody of the chief secretary. The high court also issued show cause notice to education department officials as to why contempt proceedings should not be initiated against them. The controversy here surrounds recruitment of 1,158 assistant professors in state colleges, being carried out after 19 years. The posts were advertised on October 19. It was on December 3 that the high court had restrained the state government from going ahead with the recruitment on pleas challenging recruitment criterion. The allegations were that criterion was “wholly arbitrary and discriminatory” and grants weightage in lieu of work experience only to the guest faculty, part-timers and contract teachers working in colleges. Also there were allegations that the question papers of Punjabi and mathematics were leaked well before the exams were conducted from November 20 to 22.During the hearing on Thursday, senior advocate Gaurav Chopra had sought initiation of contempt proceedings for wilful and intentional action of disobeying the orders of December 3 and December 20. He had submitted that even as court stayed issuance of appointment letters till January 6, official respondents have proceeded to issue the posting orders in favour of various candidates. He had also produced a copy of the order of December 22, passed by the Secretary, Department of Higher Education for posting of 38 assistant professors in physical education.The court ordered that status quo regarding the recommendations/appointments for the posts in question shall be maintained. Prima facie, the action of official respondents seems to be in utter disregard of the interim directions, issued by this court, and they have virtually gone on “a spree for public employment” for the reasons best known to them, the bench of justice, Mahabir Singh Sindhu observed. “For the safer side, lest the situation goes from bad to worse, this court deems it appropriate that the entire records pertaining to the selection for the posts of Assistant Professors … be sealed and kept in safe custody under the supervision of chief secretary, government of Punjab till the next date of hearing,” the bench ordered, while posting the matter for January 6 and seeking response from the state authorities.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/recruitment-of-asst-profs-seal-recruitment-record-put-it-in-custody-of-punjab-chief-secy-hc-101640286914365.html
24-12-2021||Delhi||Govt resolved 96% complaints received on Green Delhi app: Gopal Rai||Delhi environment minister Gopal Rai on Thursday said the Delhi government had been successful in resolving 96% of the polluted-related complaints received on the Green Delhi app – developed to provide a platform to citizens to report sources of pollution in their vicinity. Rai said of the 34,411 complaints received on the application so far since it was launched in October, 32,897 have been resolved. “The Green Delhi App is the most important link in our fight against pollution, as it directly connects the two crore people of Delhi to the government’s war on pollution. Any citizen in Delhi can complain about incidents of pollution through this app, depending on which the government takes further action,” said Rai, stating 27 departments and agencies from Delhi were currently working to resolve pollution-related complaints. Each department and agency also has a nodal officer working on complaints reported on the application. Data shows the most number of complaints were reported under the jurisdiction of the south corporation (8,742), followed by the north corporation (8,279). These agencies collectively account for nearly half of the total complaints received on the app. Of these, the two civic bodies resolved 96.6% and 94.5% complaints respectively.4,347 complaints came under the east corporation and 6,286 were sent to the Public Works Department (PWD). All complaints received by the Delhi Transport Corporation (DTC), the transport department and the Delhi Fire Service have already been resolved, Delhi government data shows.The Green Delhi app was launched on October 5 this year, along with the Green War Room to tackle air pollution complaints.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/govt-resolved-96-complaints-received-on-green-delhi-app-gopal-rai-101640286743729.html
24-12-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana blast: Anti-national forces trying to spread anarchy in state, says Channi||Ludhiana/Chandigarh/New Delhi: Punjab chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi on Thursday said as the assembly polls are drawing near, some anti-national forces are trying to spread anarchy in the state. Channi said this after a bomb blast in the Ludhiana district courts complex left one person dead and five injured. The CM also expressed apprehension that the person who died in the blast might be operating the bomb. Talking to reporters in Chandigarh, the CM said: “As elections are nearing, some anti-national and anti-state forces are trying to commit such disgusting acts and for this the government is alert and people should also be alert.” Channi said earlier sacrilege attempts were made but they did not succeed. Now, this blast has been carried out, the CM said. The CM, at a public meeting in Mullanpura Dakha, sought to draw a parallel between the registration of an FIR against Akali leader Bikram Singh Majithia and the blast that rocked Ludhiana as well as the recent alleged sacrilege bids. He questioned as to why such a horrendous incident took place only after Majithia was cornered by the law.Capt asks govt to come out of denial modeReiterating his concerns over the challenges to the state’s peace, security and law and order from across the border, former chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh condemned the blast in Ludhiana court complex.Hoping that Punjab Police and other security agencies will closely coordinate with each other in investigating the blast, the former chief minister regretted the diversionary tactics by the Punjab government, particularly chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi.“It is not only unfortunate, but highly irresponsible on part of the chief minister to jump to the conclusions by trying to construct a link between the blasts, the sacrilege incidents and the FIR against an Akali leader without any investigations,” Amarinder said, while observing that the CM must speak with facts and not with political rhetoric, lest it bails out the real culprits and perpetrators. Blast a ‘planned conspiracy’: SidhuPunjab Congress chief Navjot Singh Sidhu expressed condolences to those who lost their lives in the Ludhiana court blast and termed it a “planned conspiracy” to create a law and order problem in Punjab. Taking to Twitter, Sidhu said: “It also calls for eternal vigilance coupled with a strong commitment to Guru Gobind Singh ji’s message which signifies unity in diversity in face of adversity that Punjab is facing in form of sacrileges and bomb blasts.” CM cannot be seen to be floundering: Jakhar Former Punjab Congress president Sunil Jakhar on Thursday said that people of Punjab can see through the evil designs behind the bomb blast in Ludhiana coming at the heels of recent attempts at desecration, but at the same time they need to be assured of the commitment and ability of the government to maintain peace and harmony in the state. “The chief minister cannot be seen to be floundering on this account,” he said. Rahul calls for strict action against guilty Congress leader Rahul Gandhi condemned the blast at the district court complex in Ludhiana and called for strict action against those guilty. “The blast in Ludhiana is extremely condemnable. My condolences to the families of those who have lost their lives and prayers of quick recovery for the injured. Strict action must be taken at the earliest against those guilty,” he said on Twitter. A conspiracy ahead of Punjab polls: AAP The AAP said the blast in the Ludhiana district court complex was an “unfortunate” incident and demanded that those behind the explosion and recent attempts of sacrilege in Punjab be put behind bars “at the earliest”. It claimed that the blast in the Ludhiana and the two consecutive attempts to commit sacrilege at the Golden Temple in Amritsar and a gurdwara in Kapurthala indicate that “some people” want to disturb the peace in Punjab under a conspiracy “in view of the state Assembly polls” due to be held early next year. Disturbing and unfortunate incident: GuvExpressing deep anguish over the loss of life of two civilians in the blast that rocked the court complex in Ludhiana, Punjab governor Banwarilal Purohit termed it a very disturbing and unfortunate incident. Condemning the “terrible act of violence”, the governor he called upon people to maintain calm.CJI terms it ‘worrisome trend’Chief Justice of India (CJI) NV Ramana expressed deep shock over the blast inside the Ludhiana district courts complex saying such incidents in quick succession across the country is a “worrisome” trend. He hoped that law-enforcing agencies will pay necessary attention to ensure protection for the court complexes and all the stake holders.Bar Council demands formation of SIT The Bar Council of Punjab and Haryana (BCPH), the apex statutory body of lawyers in two states, has written to the Punjab director general of police (DGP) seeking constitution of a special investigation team to probe a blast reported in Ludhiana court complex. A deep-rooted conspiracy: Dullo“The bomb blast is a deep-rooted conspiracy to disturb peace in Punjab, coming as it does after recovery of tiffin bombs and hand grenades and desecration incidents. A deep and thorough probe is required to expose the forces behind these ominous incidents,” said Congress veteran leader and Rajya Sabha member Shamsher Singh Dullo. Ex-DGP Saini cautions govt Former Punjab DGP Sumedh Singh Saini cautioned the state government for taking urgent steps to ensure peace in the state. “The peace which was earned after sacrifice of 1,768 police personnel appeared to be in threat with today’s incidence. I have already cautioned the state government against emboldening anti-state elements to get the political mileage,” said Saini. (With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-blast-anti-national-forces-trying-to-spread-anarchy-in-state-says-channi-101640286735924.html
24-12-2021||Gurugram||GMDA signs MoU with IMD for installing weather stations and air quality monitors across city||Gurugram: The Gurugram Metropolitan Development Authority (GMDA) signed a memorandum of understanding (MoU) with the India Meteorological Department (IMD) in December for installing weather stations, including air quality monitoring stations, across the city, said officials on Thursday. Sultan Singh, head of geographic information system (GIS) division for the GMDA said that the MoU was signed on December 6. “We have signed a MoU with the IMD for installation of weather stations, including air quality monitoring stations, in different sectors of the city. It is being planned that these weather stations will be installed in areas with a distance of nine square kilometers, so that one station is enough for two to three sectors. The project is still at the planning stage... locations are being identified, and we are trying to complete the installation work by March next year,” said Singh. The issue was raised during the GMDA’s core planning committee meeting held on Tuesday, when the chief executive officer, Sudhir Rajpal, told officials concerned that sites are likely to be identified after obtaining inputs from the public. Residents of Gurugram can share their opinions on the GMDA’s official website, https://gurugram.gov.in/department/g-m-d-a-department/, till January 6. Subhash Yadav, head of GMDA’s urban environment division, said, “These structures will monitor air and noise pollution levels, along with weather parameters such as rainfall, wind velocity, temperature, wind direction and humidity in the areas. These monitors will directly transmit the data to the Integrated Command and Control Centre (ICCC) of the GMDA, and we will know which area suffers from more air or noise pollution. The weather stations will help in localised monitoring of pollution levels, according to which, measures to curb pollution can be implemented.” At present, the city has 24 air quality monitors, which include four air quality monitors of the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) and low-cost monitors installed by the GMDA. In January 2020, GMDA installed 20 of its own low-cost monitors, procured through Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) funds, for real-time monitoring and localised remedial action. These monitors are installed at Vatika Chowk, Bakhtawar Chowk, Mayfield Garden, Tau Devi Lal Biodiversity Park, Sohna Chowk, Ghoda Chowk, Atul Kataria Chowk, Rezang La Chowk, Atlas Chowk, Shyam Chowk, Shankar Chowk, Belvedere Tower Metro station, TERI Golf Course and TERI retreat centre — both in Bandhwari, and sectors 14, 32, 42, 47, 30, 18.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/gmda-signs-mou-with-imd-for-installing-weather-stations-and-air-quality-monitors-across-city-101640286734301.html
24-12-2021||Chandigarh||Day after Haryana reduced drinking age to 21, Khattar launches anti-drug campaign||A day after the Haryana assembly passed a Bill that brought down the minimum age for drinking to 21, chief minister (CM) Manohar Lal Khattar, in the presence of Union minister of state for housing and urban affairs Kaushal Kishore, launched ‘Nasha Mukt Bharat’ campaign on Thursday.On this occasion, the CM, the Union minister, local leaders and officials of the district administration took pledge not to take drugs and administered oaths to hundreds of school children.On why the Haryana government reduced the age of drinking to 21, the CM said the step was taken to counter criminal activities and allow youth to work at liquor shops.He said 16 states in country have already reduced the age and now Haryana has also passed a Bill for this.“But this does not mean we want to encourage youth towards drugs. It will help them get jobs. Also, limited use is not a threat to the society but excess of anything is bad,” Khattar said when asked about the reasons behind the government’s move.The CM cited the example of a Union minister’s son: “He died at the age of 28 due to a habit of liquor drinking.”The Union minister urged youth to install banners outside their residence to declare that their family is free from drugs.Addressing a gathering after inaugurating a women’s hostel at a college in Anjanthali village, Khattar announced to set up a sports stadium on six acre in the name of Olympics gold medallist Neeraj Chopra. The CM also announced to start a nursing course in the college.Khattar said the government and the health department are fully prepared to deal with any situation amid a surge in the number of cases of Omicron variant of the coronavirus.He said the treatment protocol has already been prepared for patients of the new variant.Anganwadi workers’ protestHundreds of anganwadi workers, who were heading towards the venue of the chief minister’s programme at Sector 12 in Karnal, were stopped by the police.The protesters wanted to apprise the CM about their pending demands. The protesters alleged that they wanted to meet the chief minister regarding their demands not being fulfilled despite having written assurances from the government.Heavy police deployment was made near the venue and the protesters were stopped by the police. They ended the protest after submitting a memorandum to the sub-divisional officer.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/day-after-haryana-reduced-drinking-age-to-21-khattar-launches-anti-drug-campaign-101640286618745.html
24-12-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab logs 35 fresh Covid cases, 1 death||Chandigarh: Punjab on Thursday reported 35 fresh Covid cases taking the infection tally to 6,04,092, according to a medical bulletin. With one Covid-related fatality, the death toll in the state reached 16,636, it said. The state’s positivity rate for the day remained 0.11%. The number of active cases in the state rose to 314, the bulletin said. Among fresh cases, maximum eight were reported in Jalandhar and five in Pathankot.With 24 persons recovered from the infection, the number of cured persons has reached 5,87,142, the bulletin said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-logs-35-fresh-covid-cases-1-death-101640286494687.html
24-12-2021||Delhi||EDMC to start app-based life certificate verification for pensioners||In a bid to ease the problems pensioners face while providing the government with annual proof of life, the East Delhi Municipal Corporation (EDMC) will verify life certificates online. Mayor Shyam Sunder Aggarwal said that the orders for an app-based system for obtaining life certificates were passed on Thursday.“The biggest beneficiaries will be elderly, infirm people who are not able to visit banks for life certificate verification. They will be able to complete the verification while sitting at home,” he said.The order issued for the implementation of digital verification also said that the Covid-19 pandemic has added to pensioners’ worries as they are forced to wait longer to physically submit life certificates as banks do not allow crowding.A senior municipal official explained that the programme will work on Aadhaar-based biometric authentication of pensioners. “This will be an add-on facility and the existing method of submission of life certificate physically will also continue. The pension disbursing departments will be asked to ensure that digital life certificate data is not shared with any other agency,” the order said.An EDMC spokesperson said that around 10,000 people will benefit from the order in the first phase.The issue of delay due to physical verification of life certificates has been raised in municipal corporations on several occasions. An inquiry into pensions issued by the South Delhi Municipal Corporation is being conducted by the Lokayukta and a reference in this regard has been received by the civic body, municipal commissioner Gyanesh Bharti confirmed during a standing committee meeting held in September. The SDMC had issued orders to physically verify all pensioners in October. There are 16 types of pensions in Delhi and most categories have been transferred to the Delhi government. Categories such as senior citizens and handicapped citizens have been taken over by the Delhi government, while corporations are currently issuing pensions to five categories of people such as widows, transgenders, divorcees, people who are ill or bed-ridden and orphans.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/edmc-to-start-app-based-life-certificate-verification-for-pensioners-101640286435602.html
24-12-2021||Other||CBI arrests 11 in Pearls Group Ponzi scheme case||Jalandhar The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) has arrested 11 accused in a case against the Pearls Group, a Chandigarh-based private company, in which ₹60,000 crore were collected from 5.5 crore investors across the country, as part of various Ponzi schemes. Such schemes typically lure small investors into parting with their savings, on the promises of exorbitant return; these have no approval of any regulatory authority.The charge-sheet in this case was filed in April 2016, after the agency arrested Pearls Group chairman and managing director Nirmal Singh Bhangoo and his accomplices in January of the same year. The case was registered against Bhangoo and others in February 2014, after an inquiry revealed prima facie evidence of the Pearls Group having raised investments of several thousand of crores of rupees by issuing bogus land allotment letters to induce investors. On Thursday, the agency said those arrested included Pearls Group company officials and businessmen from Delhi, Chandigarh, Kolkata and Bhubaneshwar. It added that after the Punjab and Haryana high court ordered the company to wind up the scheme and refund investors, a similar fraudulent scheme was operated under the name of the other/second private company. The arrested accused are Mohanlal Sehajpal; Kanwaljit Singh Toor (all from Pearls Group), Praveen Kumar Agarwal, Mannoj Kumar Jain, Akash Agarwal, Anil Kumar Khemka, Subhash Agarwal, Rajesh Agarwal (all businessmen) from Delhi, Chandigarh, Kolkata, Bhubaneshwar and other cities. The arrested accused were produced before special judge, Rouse Avenue Courts, Delhi. Eight of the two were remanded to two-day police custody; three, including Kanwaljit Singh Toor, Prem Seth and Anil Kumar, were sent to judicial custody.‘Vicious circle of cheating’ The funds collected from new investors of this second company were used to repay the earlier investors of first private company to stave off criminal prosecution. The funds have been raised by the two companies through a vast network of lakhs of commission agents spread all over the country who were being paid hefty commissions. “It was further alleged that the accused persons, including promoters and directors, and others illegally collected huge funds amounting to the tune of ₹45,000 crore (approx) from 5.5 crore investors (approx) under the garb of sale & purchase of agricultural land and the promise of high returns. These schemes were running illegally and both the companies were allegedly engaged in fraudulent activities including forgery in their day-to-day operations,” the agency said, adding that another $133 million Australian dollars were diverted to Australian companies. Pearls Group illegally disposed of properties worth ₹1,200 cr Despite a Supreme Court ban in 2016, PACL India Limited or the Pearls Group, disposed of properties worth ₹1,200 crore bought with investors’ money till a case was registered against it in 2020. The Punjab Police have mentioned this is a separate case registered at Zira police station in July 2020. Har Satinder Singh Hayer, son-in-law of Bhangoo, and daughter Barinder Kaur are under arrest, in the case. Ferozepur additional and district sessions judge, Gurmohan Singh will hear Barinder’s bail plea on December 24. 
24-12-2021||Gurugram||Fully vaccinated Canada returnee, 24, tests positive for Omicron in Faridabad||A 24-year-old woman, who returned from Canada on December 13, tested positive for the new coronavirus variant ‘Omicron’ this week and became the first ‘Omicron’ infected patient in Faridabad, officials of the health department said on Thursday.The fully vaccinated woman tested Covid positive on December 14, and for the new ‘Omicron’ variant on December 20, according to the officials. Rajeev Arora, additional chief secretary for health, said, “A 24-year-old woman, who was fully vaccinated, travelled from Canada to India tested positive for the ‘Omicron’ variant in Faridabad on Monday (December 20). She is showing mild symptoms, and has been isolated at a private hospital in the district... The patient’s mother and aunt also tested positive for Covid, and their samples have been sent for genome sequencing too, the results of which are awaited.” Dr Vinay Gupta, chief medical officer (CMO) of Faridabad, said that two of the 10 close contacts of the 24-year-old woman, who were tested for Covid-19, have also got the infection. “The patient is fully vaccinated, who was administered the second dose of a Covid-19 vaccine — Moderna — on June 25 this year. She has taken a booster dose yet... As the woman had not returned from a ‘high-risk’ country on December 13, her samples were taken as part of a random testing. After she tested positive for Covid-19, her samples were sent for genome sequencing,” said Gupta. On Thursday, Faridabad reported three fresh cases of Covid-19, along with two recoveries. The total tally of active cases in the district now stands at 41, of which, 40 patients are under home isolation and one is hospitalised, according to the district health bulletin. Gurugram reported 28 fresh cases of Covid-19 and 19 recoveries on Thursday, with the active caseload recorded at 139, of which, three patients are hospitalised and 136 are in home isolation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/fully-vaccinated-canada-returnee-24-tests-positive-for-omicron-in-faridabad-101640286375959.html
24-12-2021||Noida||Two arrested for killing 32-year-old man found dead in Noida’s Sec 104||Police arrested two people for allegedly killing a 32-year-old man in Noida on Wednesday, said officials on Thursday.The body of the victim — Ram Singh — with multiple stab injuries, was found on a road near Hajipur village in Sector 104 early Wednesday morning. Singh, a native of Uttar Pradesh’s Shahjahanpur, worked as a tailor in Behrampur village in Noida.It was revealed during investigation that the victim had been in a relationship with a widow for the past few years, but the woman’s brother Mohit Kumar, 22, was against their relationship and killed the suspect with the help of his accomplices.Kumar Ranvijay Singh, additional deputy commissioner of police (ADCP), Noida, said that a person called the police around 7:30am on Wednesday and informed them that a man was found lying injured on the Sector 104 road. “A police team took the victim to a nearby hospital, where he was declared dead. During investigation, police found ₹12,000 cash and an identity card (which helped the police to identify the victim) from his pocket ,” Singh said.Mohit was booked by the police, and during questioning, he confessed to the crime. “Mohit told the police that he, his cousin Mohan Kumar, 23, and another accomplice, Rinku, 25, called the victim to meet them in Hajipur village on Tuesday night, and stabbed him to death. Rinku escaped after committing the crime, and the two others hid in Hajipur village. Police arrested Mohit and Mohan from Hajipur village on Wednesday evening,” Singh added.A case has been registered against the three people under Indian Penal Code (IPC) Section 302 (murder) at the Sector 39 police station on Wednesday. “The two arrested suspects were produced before a court and sent to judicial custody on Thursday. We have launched a search to nab Rinku,” said Singh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/two-arrested-for-killing-32-year-old-man-found-dead-in-noida-s-sec-104-101640286254218.html
24-12-2021||Noida||Noida second most polluted city as air quality hovers in severe zone||Even as Noida was one of the most polluted cities in the country on Thursday, around 60% of the complaints regarding air pollution remain unresolved in the city.On Thursday, most cities in Delhi-NCR recorded “severe” air pollution levels. At 432, the Air Quality Index (AQI) reading of Noida was second only to Faridabad, which recorded an AQI reading of 452. Meanwhile, neighbouring Delhi recorded an AQI reading of 423, while Ghaziabad’s AQI reading was 411 and Greater Noida recorded 412. Gurugram recorded a marginally better AQI reading of 362, which is in the “very poor” category.An AQI reading between 201 and 300 is considered “poor”, 301 and 400 “very poor”, and 401 and 500 “severe”.According to the India Meteorological Department’s forecast, Noida’s air quality is likely to improve marginally but remain in the “very poor” category on December 24 and 25.“The air quality is likely to improve significantly from December 27 onwards when AQI may reach ‘poor/moderate’ category. Partly cloudy sky with shallow to moderate fog in the morning will continue,” states the forecast.Though poor air quality has been a constant concern every winter for the past few days, an RTI response on December 22 shows the seriousness of the departments in resolving air pollution issues. All air pollution-related complaints are recorded through the Sameer web application. According to the RTI response, 152 complaints were received through Sameer since August this year. Of these, just 62, or 40.7%, have been resolved so far. The number of complaints has increased as the winter months approached. There were two complaints in August, four in September, 15 in October and 131 in November.“We keep registering our complaints along with pictures but action is taken only after several days. Most of these are complaints on which Noida authority is yet to take action but the response is much delayed. Meanwhile, the dust from these sites remains a health hazard for all residents in nearby areas. The problem is that while the authorities are aware of these pollution hotspots, no action is taken throughout the year to ensure that the issues are resolved,” said Amit Gupta, a resident of Sector 77 and the RTI applicant.Another RTI filed by Gupta reveals that the staff at the Noida office of Uttar Pradesh Pollution Control Board (UPPCB) has been reducing over the past seven years. Since 2015, the number of UPPCB staff has reduced from 18 to eight. “With just eight staff and very little power, how will the UPPCB manage to monitor all pollution-related issues in the city? It is important to ensure adequate staff that can work on pollution-related matters throughout the year,” added Gupta.Meanwhile, UPPCB officials said that most complaints received on the state portal are resolved by the respective departments. They added that around 400 complaints have been received this year, of which two are yet to be resolved.“We inform the departments concerned as soon as we receive the complaint. The departments take action within a few days usually. However, shortage of manpower is a problem as we are unable to physically inspect every site in the complaint. The process takes time,” said Praveen Kumar, regional officer, UPPCB Noida.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/noida-second-most-polluted-city-as-air-quality-hovers-in-severe-zone-101640286135002.html
24-12-2021||Delhi||Delhi’s air pollution levels in ‘severe’ zone for 3rd consecutive day||Air pollution-related restrictions on construction and demolition activities in the National Capital Region (NCR) and the ban on entry of diesel and petrol trucks into Delhi were lifted by the Commission for Air Quality Management (CAQM) on Monday, citing an improvement in air quality and a good wind speed forecast by the India Meteorological Department (IMD). However, the next day, Delhi’s air quality index (AQI) plunged into the “severe” category for the first time since December 2, and since then, it has remained “severe” with Delhi on Thursday logging the third consecutive day when the AQI was over 400.According to the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) data, Delhi’s 24-hour average AQI on Thursday was recorded at 423, up from Wednesday’s 407, and the highest since December 2 when the city logged an AQI of 429. IMD said on Thursday that the situation may not improve till Sunday, when light rain is likely to help improve air quality. Weather and environment experts have said that a mix of factors may have led to the worsening of air quality, including lower-than-expected wind speed and a poor assessment of the impact of lifting restrictions. Tanushree Ganguly, Programme Lead at the Council on Energy, Environment and Water (CEEW) said a minor improvement in air quality was seen between December 17 and 19, but the PM2.5 and PM10 concentrations began to increase from December 20, the day the restrictions were lifted. “The average PM2.5 levels have been in the ‘very poor’ to ‘severe’ category since December 20. CEEW’s analysis of meteorological parameters suggests that the ventilation index has been on the lower side since December 20, preventing the dispersion of pollutants,” said Ganguly.“Proactive directions by the CAQM on using air quality and meteorology forecasts are indeed steps in the right direction, but there is a need to calibrate actions on the ground as per the source contributions forecasted by the models. Dust and waste burning continue to dominate locally. Therefore, resuming activities at large construction sites might not be ideal unless authorities ensure stringent implementation of dust suppression measures,” she added.Despite three consecutive “severe” days, no restrictions were reimposed by CAQM on Thursday, however an official, on condition of anonymity, said that situation was being “closely monitored”. Anumita Roychowdhury, executive director, research and advocacy at the Centre for Science and Environment (CSE), said forecasts should serve as the basis of removing or imposing restrictions, and it was now important to factor in the impact of each section in air pollution. “Severe air pollution happens when pollutants get trapped locally because of a combination of factors, which includes the lifting of restrictions and meteorological conditions. We need our forecasts to be even more reliable and guide action in the future,” she said.Gufran Beig, project director and founder at the System for Air Quality and Weather Forecasting And Research (Safar), a central forecasting body, said the “mixing height” has been a key factor in the last three days, dropping down to 500 to 700 metres. Mixing height is an invisible boundary layer, which if low, can trap pollutants close to the surface. A mixing height of 1-1.5 kms is considered enough to allow dispersal of pollutants. “Even with good wind speed, if mixing height is low, it can still trap pollutants and with temperatures remaining extremely low, the air has become heavier and made it difficult for pollutants to disperse,” said Beig, adding that air quality was unlikely to improve significantly, until light rain is recorded around December 27.Delhi recorded a minimum temperature of 5.5 degrees Celsius on Thursday – two degrees below normal, while the maximum was 23.1 degrees, two notches above normal. IMD scientist RK Jenamani said CAQM considered the forecast of good wind speed, which proved right, but other factors may have played a role in pollution spike. “Wind speed has been good, and while it dropped slightly to 8-10 km/hr on Wednesday, it stayed between 10-14 km/hr on Thursday. We have not seen calm winds during this period,” Jenamani said. “A drizzle may be recorded on the night of December 26, with parts of Delhi receiving light showers the next day too. In the higher reaches, there will be snowfall,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhis-air-pollution-levels-in-severe-zone-for-3rd-consecutive-day-101640286075605.html
24-12-2021||Gurugram||Haryana CM Khattar launches drive to prevent drug consumption across state||A day after the Haryana government reduced the drinking age in the state from 25 years to 21 years, with the state assembly passing an amendment to the Haryana Excise Act, chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar, in the presence of Union minister of state for housing and urban affairs, Kaushal Kishore, launched campaign ‘Nasha Mukt Bharat’ in a bid to stop drug consumption in the state.Both the ministers, along with several local leaders and district administration officials, took a pledge to stop consumption of drugs and administered similar oaths to hundreds of school children during the event. Replying to a question on why the Haryana government reduced the age of drinking to 21 years, CM Khattar said that “the step was taken to counter criminal activities and allow youths to work at liquor shops”. He said the state government passed the Bill after 16 states in the country reduced the age of drinking.“But it does not mean that we want to encourage the youths to consume drugs... but this move will help them in getting jobs. Also, limited usage of anything is not a threat to the society, but excess of everything is,” CM Khattar said. Following the amendment, the legal age to get a lease to manufacture, wholesale or retail sale of country liquors, and to employ a person at licenced premises to sell liquor has also been reduced to 21 years.Union minister Kishore also urged the youths to install related banners outside their residences to declare that they and their families live a “drug-free” life.After inaugurating one hostel at the women college in Anjanthali village, the chief minister announced to set up a sports stadium in the name of Olympics gold medalist Neeraj Chopra covering six acres too. He also announced plans to launch a nursing course for the college.CM Khattar said that the state government and the health department were fully prepared to deal with the increase in the number of Covid cases in the state. The treatment protocol for the new variant has been prepared for the patients, he added.During the event, hundreds of Anganwadi workers headed towards the venue of CM Khattar’s programme in Sector 12 in Karnal for the redressal of their grievances, but they were stopped by the police. They ended the protest after submitting a memorandum to the sub-divisional officer on the same.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/haryana-cm-khattar-launches-drive-to-prevent-drug-consumption-across-state-101640285954270.html
24-12-2021||Noida||Greater Noida authority inks pact with National Thermal Power Corporation to recycle plastic||The Greater Noida authority on Thursday signed a memorandum of understanding (MOU) with the National Thermal Power Corporation (NTPC) to recycle the plastic waste produced in the city, which will be used as fuel to produce electricity at the corporation’s Dadri plant, said officials in the know of the matter. Officials from the Greater Noida authority said it was a challenge to treat the 20 tonne of plastic waste produced daily in the city. “We were looking for a solution to handle the plastic waste so that it can be recycled. Now, we are happy since the NTPC will reuse the plastic waste and produce electricity, thereby eliminating the problem of the city to get rid of the plastic waste,” said CEO of Greater Noida authority Narendra Bhooshan. The authority said it makes compost out of 50% of the organic waste produced daily and uses the same in green spaces in the city. It converts the 25% of the waste into soil that is used in filling vacant plots and other spaces.“The challenge before us was to recycle... plastic waste of the total 200 tonne of waste produced daily in the city. Now, Greater Noida will become a city that recycles the total waste produced. We collect, segregate and treat the waste at the facility in Lakhnawali village. The NTPC will take the plastic waste to their research and development centre in Greater Noida for further use,” said Deep Chand, additional CEO of the Greater Noida authority.The authority will earn revenue out of this agreement but the exact rate for the plastic waste is yet to be worked out between the two agencies, said officials.“We will first make fuel out of the plastic waste and then reuse the same. The 20 tonne of plastic waste will help produce 400 megawatt of electricity daily,” said an NTPC official requesting anonymity.
24-12-2021||Delhi||MCDs tussle: North seeks rent from South corp for using HQ||Facing the ire of unpaid employees as well as courts, the North Delhi Municipal Corporation has written to the south corporation demanding ₹2,837 crore as rent for using the Civic Centre -- the headquarters of both north and south civic body -- since the two corporations shifted to the high-rise building in central Delhi after the trifurcation of the Municipal Corporation of Delhi in 2012.Jogi Ram Jain, the chairman of the North MCD standing committee, said that both the committee and the commissioner have written to the South Delhi Municipal Corporation to pay the rent soon, so that it could be “added to budget under the head of income”. The north MCD, which has more liabilities than its total budget for the next financial year, has not paid at least two months’ salaries to its staff leading to strikes by various staff unions. The demand by the North civic body comes in the wake of persistent attacks by the opposition Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) which has maintained that the BJP-ruled corporation has failed to realise thousands of crores in dues from central agencies such as DDA, and seek financial aid from the BJP-led Union government. Senior North MCD officials aware of the matter said that its south counterpart owes ₹ 2,457 crore rent till 2020, and if the rent for the current year is accounted for, the total due are ₹ 2,837 crore. A senior north corporation official argued that a 2012 order clearly states that after trifurcation all the properties that come in the jurisdiction of each civic body will be allocated to it. “The order stated that the south corporation will be allowed to stay in the Civic Centre till it builds a new head office, but that cannot be construed as a permanent free of cost arrangement,” the official who asked not to be named said.The unified MCD had its headquarters in the now abandoned Town Hall in Chandni Chowk. A south corporation official said that when the MCD was divided in 2012, the East MCD was allocated a portion of DSIIDC building in Patparganj Industrial area, and the SDMC was allowed to continue in the newly built headquarters on Jawaharlal Nehru Marg. “Ever since the offices shifted to the Civic Centre from Town Hall SDMC continues to pay its share of maintenance charges,” the SDMC official said.SDMC leader of the house Inderjeet Sehrawat said common funds were used to develop the Civic Centre, and it cannot be asked to pay rent. “If siblings are dividing the ancestral property, and one brother does not have anywhere to move, it is unprincipled to ask for rent for staying in common ancestral property. We do not have a separate headquarter building and the civic body currently does not have enough money to build one,” he said.A senior north DMC official familiar with the issue said that the office space allocation decision of the then council of ministers meeting held on March 16, 2012 was communicated to commissioner of unified MCD. “An order was then issued by the commissioner of unified MCD allocating various floors between the North and South MCDs. It was mentioned in the order that since the Civic Centre falls under the jurisdiction of the North Delhi Municipal Corporation, the administrative control of the Civic Centre will be with the North Delhi Municipal Corporation,” the official said.The controversy began in 2015, when North MCD issues rent notice to the South MCD. With all the municipal corporations facing a financial crisis, the rent issue emerges every few years. The tussle took an ugly turn in 2016 when the office of the then SDMC commissioner Puneet Goyal’s secretary Mangal Singh was sealed by the North MCD. However, the seal was removed after a few hours. Over the last decade, several ideas have been floated to develop a separate SDMC headquarters at Dwarka, IP Estate, Greater Kailash and Vasant Kunj, but none materialised. More than five years after a new SDMC headquarter was proposed at IP estate near Pragati Maidan, the plan remains largely on paper. Sehrawat said the project to build a new headquarter by SDMC near Pragati Maidan was initiated five years ago, but it several agencies such as PWD and ITPO objected to it on various accounts. “Now, the SDMC is also facing shortage of funds,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/mcds-tussle-north-seeks-rent-from-south-corp-for-using-hq-101640285716565.html
24-12-2021||Mumbai||Round off toll charges in multiples of ₹10 to avoid squabbles at toll plazas: legislative panel advises state govt.||MUMBAI: Squabbles over loose change and consequent delays at toll collection plazas may soon be a thing of the past with the public undertakings committee (PUC) of the state legislature suggesting to the state government that toll charges be rounded off in multiples of ₹10.“The Maharashtra State Road Development Corporation (MSRDC) has toll nakas at several places. These toll nakas charge rates in odd figures. This causes frequent problems of unavailability of loose change and leads to people wasting their time and fuel… considering this, if toll is levied in multiples of ₹10 such as ₹20, ₹30 and so on, it will save people’s time in scouting for loose change and also conserve fuel,” said the report of the committee headed by Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) MLA Ashok Pawar. The report was tabled in the state legislative assembly on Thursday.“Similarly, clear rules must be drawn up about how long vehicles must be made to wait at toll nakas and if toll should be levied or not on vehicles that have to stand (in queue) at a particular distance from the toll centre,” the report added. The department must inform the committee about action taken on these points within three months of the report being tabled in the legislature.At present, the Mumbai-Pune expressway charges ₹270 as toll for car users travelling from Mumbai to Pune and ₹203 as toll for those travelling from Mumbai to Lonavala. Light motor vehicles using the Bandra-Worli Sea Link (BWSL) have to pay ₹85 for a single journey.The committee also noted that despite paying toll, road users do not necessarily get facilities such as toilets.While the use of FASTag, which is an electronic toll collection system, has been made mandatory by the Centre, there are instances of vehicles not being allowed to leave toll nakas if the tag cannot be scanned due to technical flaws. This leads to congestion of vehicles at the toll plazas. The committee called for immediate implementation of a decision from the centre allowing a vehicle to cross the toll station if the tag cannot be scanned due to technical reasons. It also asked for consideration to be given if dedicated lanes at toll nakas, especially those near urban areas, be earmarked for emergency vehicles, ambulances and VIPs to ensure that they can travel ahead without being obstructed in traffic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/round-off-toll-charges-in-multiples-of-rs-10-to-avoid-squabbles-at-toll-plazas-legislative-panel-advises-state-govt-101640285714758.html
24-12-2021||Noida||Noida authority inaugurates 22 civic infrastructure projects||The Noida authority on Thursday inaugurated 22 different projects, having a total financial outlay of ₹22.62 crore, and laid the foundation stone of eight different projects, having a budget of ₹8.35 crore, in the city. Rajya Sabha MP Surendra Nagar, Noida MLA Pankaj Singh, CEO of the Noida authority Ritu Maheshwari and other senior officials attended the event where possession letters of flats were handed over to 114 people from the economically weaker sections, who will shift to their respective flats and vacate the existing makeshift house in the slum clusters of the city. After the inauguration and the foundation laying ceremony, important functionaries and authority officials visited the spot site, where the authority has made a selfie point near a wetland in Sector 91 with the slogan ‘I love Noida’.“All of these projects will benefit the general public in the city. We have started readying the flats in Sector 122, where the slum dwellers can shift and lead a respectful life,” said Maheshwari. The authority built the flats in Sector 122 so that its prime plots in sectors 8 and 9, where slums are located, get vacated. The authority has spent ₹2.62 crore on building a ‘start up hub’ in old court building in Phase II area for the benefit of people who are interested to start new ventures in the city. The authority has built 1,193 square metres working space with all supporting facilities, so that interested people can work and start their business venture.“Our government has set up the start up hub facility to inspire and encourage young talent, who want to start business here. Our government is ready to hand hold those youngsters, who want to make it big, create jobs and boost growth. They can use this facility, get connected with other like-minded people and start new ventures in Noida, where at least 70% mobile manufacturing units are located,” said Nagar. The authority has spent ₹5.92 crore on sewer line shifting work in sector 43, ₹25.44 lakh on a community centre building in Raipur village, ₹14.4 lakh on renovating five government schools, ₹68.33 lakh on setting up a fountain in sectors 27 and 100, among other works. An estimated budget of ₹8.35 crore will be spent on road repairs and construction of restrooms in different areas in the time to come as the foundation stone was laid for these works on Thursday.
24-12-2021||Mumbai||Man who threatened Aaditya Thackeray arrested from Bengaluru; state announces SIT||MUMBAI: Maharashtra home minister Dilip Walse Patil on Thursday announced the formation of a special investigation team (SIT) to probe threats — including those on social media — to politicians and activists. The announcement came after a person was arrested from Bengaluru for threatening Shiv Sena leader and state environment minister Aaditya Thackeray on WhatsApp. Legislators had also been demanding an investigation into threats issued to political leaders and social activists through social media and other means.Walse Patil said that one Jaisingh Bajrang Rajput had been arrested from Bengaluru by a Mumbai Police team for threatening Aaditya and had been brought to Mumbai. “Considering the sentiments and complaints of the members... whether it is a member of this house, or a common man, their life and security are important. A state level SIT will be appointed to study this issue and probe the incidents of threats and suggest measures for the future,” he added. A senior police officer from Mumbai police said Rajput, 34, was watching movies of late actor Sushant Singh Rajput on December 17. After watching the films, he searched and found Aditya’s mobile number. He called the minister, but did not get a response. Rajput then allegedly sent a message on WhatsApp threatening the minister, the officer added. The officer said Rajput, who has studied up to Class 10, was arrested on December 18 and brought to Mumbai, and was produced before a metropolitan magistrate court at Bandra and was remanded to police custody till Thursday, December 23. On Thursday, the court remanded him to judicial custody. Senior police officers did not divulge any more information. Shiv Sena MLA Sunil Prabhu raised the issue in the legislative assembly and said there was a Karnataka connection in the murders of social activists Dr Narendra Dabholkar (killed in Pune in August 2013), Govind Pansare (attacked in Kolhapur on February 16, 2015; he died in Mumbai four days later) and Gauri Lankesh (killed in September 2017 in Bengaluru), and asked if this was happening because it was a Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)-ruled state. Leader of opposition and former chief minister Devendra Fadnavis of the BJP condemned the threats, saying they should be stemmed out, but questioned why this was given a political turn. He said the claim that “lakhs being paid for trending Sushant Singh’s name on social media” must be probed. Fadnavis also asked whether action will also be taken against the controversial Raza Academy. Minority affairs minister and NCP legislator Nawab Malik demanded that the government should appoint an SIT to find out the people behind such threats and their sponsors. He also alleged that ₹30 lakh were spent to run a smear campaign against a minister following the death of actor Sushant Singh Rajput. Malik said he too had been threatened and had informed the home minister about this. Food and civil supplies minister Chhagan Bhujbal demanded that the Centre should ban right wing outfit Sanatan Sanstha which has been linked to the murders of Dabholkar and Gauri Lankesh. Fadnavis questioned why no action had been taken against Sanatan Sanstha by the Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government, which assumed office two years ago. He said the proposal to ban the organisation was floated in 2012 during the erstwhile Congress government, but there was no “conclusive evidence” against it. His party colleague Sudhir Mungantiwar said that he too had been threatened but said that despite bringing this to the home minister’s notice, no security had been provided. He also lamented that the response of the police to threats given on WhatsApp to political functionaries such as the CM’s aide Milind Narvekar was lacking in his case. Meanwhile, the Sanatan Sanstha condemned the threats to Aaditya, and called for action against the accused. It also refuted the allegations made by Malik and food and civil supplies minister Chhagan Bhujbal. “The allegations levelled against us are false and politically motivated,” said Chetan Rajhans, national spokesperson of Sanatan Sanstha. (With inputs from Manish Pathak)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/man-who-threatened-aaditya-thackeray-arrested-from-bengaluru-state-announces-sit-101640285415907.html
24-12-2021||Noida||7 fresh Covid cases reported in Ghaziabad, highest single day-spike in December||Seven fresh cases were reported in the district on Thursday, the highest single-day spike this month, taking the tally of Covid cases in December to 49, of which 27 are active cases. The seven cases include four members of a family at a high-rise in Indirapuram, who are contacts of a previously infected patient who arrived in Ghaziabad from Australia on December 11. One case each reported on Thursday were from New Vijay Nagar, Raj Nagar and Bareilly. Officials said all the four members of one family are asymptomatic while the three other cases have symptoms of throat pain and fever. All the seven patients are in home isolation and their samples have been sent for genome sequencing to check if they have been infected by the Omicron variant or not. Meanwhile, the district health department has formed about 150 teams, which will conduct ‘near to home’ vaccination in different localities to complete administering the first dose of the Covid-19 vaccine to over 2.7 million eligible beneficiaries in the district within the deadline of December 31 set by the state government.  According to official figures, till Thursday evening, total 4,252,693 doses were administered in the district, which include 2,572,404 first doses and 1,680,289 second doses. The district is yet to administer about 129,763 first doses in the next one week. The first dose and second dose figures also include people from other districts who have taken the vaccine doses in Ghaziabad district. The district has already missed the deadline of administering the first dose to all the eligible beneficiaries by November 30 and a fresh deadline of December 31 was later issued by the government. “Apart from the first doses, we also have about 250,000 or more beneficiaries who have missed the date of their second dose and have not turned up. So, we have directed about 150 teams to go to localities and mohallas and conduct vaccination for those who have been left out of the inoculation programme and also vaccinate those who are yet to take their second dose,” said Dr Bhavtosh Shankhdhar, chief medical officer (CMO) of Ghaziabad. According to officials, there are about 219 teams which are spread across the district and involved in the vaccination process. “About 150 teams will now go to different localities, where they will set up ‘near to home’ camps and encourage people of specific areas to take up vaccination. Our overall vaccination coverage is high and the district is among the top five districts in Uttar Pradesh having more than 95% coverage,” said the CMO. He added that the samples for the third sero-survey in the district have been taken up and sent to Lucknow for testing. The survey, conducted on the directions of the UP government, was carried out between December 21-25.“The results of the present survey will indicate the rate of seroprevalence in population. As far as present rise in Covid cases is concerned, we mostly have patients who have a travel history and whose contacts have been infected. Our teams are tracking each case and taking up micro-containment exercise to control the spread of the infection,” said the CMO. Dr Ashish Aggarwal, former president of Indian Medical Association (Ghaziabad), said, “In the wake of recent increase in Covid cases in December, it is vital for people to take the vaccination (both doses) to attain maximum protection from the infection. Many of the current patients, who have tested positive for Covid-19, have taken the vaccination and hence, are having mild or no symptoms. This is why the severity of infection is also less in the recent cases.” 
24-12-2021||Noida||Noida logs 11 new Covid-19 cases, highest single day tally since July||Gautam Budh Nagar recorded 11 fresh Covid-19 cases on Thursday, the highest in a single-day so far this month, taking the tally of cases reported this month to 76, of which 41 are active cases. The district has not recorded fresh cases in a day in double digits in over five months since July 6, when it reported 13 confirmed Covid-19 cases. Of the 11 cases, while 10 of them were added to the state’s official tally of Covid cases on Thursday, the test report of one more patient arrived after 3pm and will be added in the next day’s tally. The patient, whose Covid-19 test report arrived after 3pm, is 25-year-old woman, who returned from Switzerland on December 12. She was tested nine days later on December 21, and her test report confirmed that she was infected by Covid-19. According to health officials, the woman is asymptomatic but has been in isolation at the Noida Covid Hospital in Sector 39. Her samples have been sent for genome sequencing to King George’s Medical University in Lucknow. The rest of the patients include a couple who returned from Goa, four members of a family who attended a wedding, two contacts of previously infected Covid-19 patients and one who tested positive during random sampling. A paediatrician from the Post Graduate Institute of Child Health in Noida is among the 11 Covid-19 cases reported on Thursday. Though he is asymptomatic, his contacts, including hospital staff, are being tested. Of the 41 active cases, four are in hospitals while the remaining 37 patients are in home isolation. “We have alerted government and private hospitals and have asked them to get all healthcare workers fully vaccinated at the earliest. We have also asked them to continue testing their employees on priority,” said Dr Sunil Sharma, chief medical officer. All private hospitals have been told to provide a list of employees who are not fully vaccinated by next week. The health department has also notified Kailash Hospital in Noida as a Covid facility, apart from the Noida Covid Hospital in Sector 39. Officials said while most Covid patients who need institutional treatment are now admitted at the Noida Covid hospital, some insist on staying in a private facility. “Hence, we allowed Kailash hospital to treat Covid patients after informing us... If the number and severity of cases increase, we will include more hospitals for Covid treatment as and when needed,” said Dr Sharma. So far, the district has received a list of 8,534 international travellers, who have arrived in Noida since mid November. Of these, 1,862 travellers have come from ‘at risk’ nations, 508 of whom have been tested by the district authorities for Covid. While the preliminary test is done at the airport, these travellers are contacted by the health department and tested after eight days of their travel date.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/noida-logs-11-new-covid-19-cases-highest-single-day-tally-since-july-101640285175767.html
24-12-2021||Mumbai||University of Mumbai might continue with online mode for summer 2022 exams||Mumbai: Owing to the rising number of Covid-19 cases and Omicron scare, the University of Mumbai (MU) may conduct its summer 2022 examination in online mode only. According to internal sources, the varsity has decided to put its decision of offline exams on hold for now, even though some stakeholders are rooting for it.Giving internal details in the matter, an official from MU, requesting anonymity, shared, “Since colleges reopened and classes were being held in the hybrid mode, many stakeholders thought of conducting the summer 2022 examination in the offline mode. But due to increasing cases, MU might have to stick to online exams yet again.” He also informed that before MU takes a final call on the same, the advice of the expert committee will be taken into consideration.In the second week of October, minister for state higher and technical education Uday Samant announced the reopening of colleges only for fully vaccinated students. In a statement made on October 13, Samant suggested that colleges should implement the physical reopening of campuses in a phased manner and should continue online classes for those students who are not fully vaccinated.Most colleges received a lukewarm response for the first few days, but the numbers gradually got better post-Diwali holidays in November. By December, a handful of MU affiliated colleges also started conducting offline classes, instead of hybrid, to find out how many students would accept the move.However, offline-only classes had to be discontinued as many students took to social media to share their concerns.“Colleges were initially asked to encourage all students to get vaccinated, which we did, and helped conduct vaccination drives on campus to achieve the goal. However, once Omicron cases started increasing, more and more students as well as parents were unsure about physical classes and started preferring online classes over in-person lectures,” said the principal of a college at Mira Road.Recently, the state school education minister Varsha Gaikwad announced the decision to conduct class 10 (SSC) and class 12 (HSC) exams for the academic year 2021-22 in the offline mode between March and April 2022. “We are expecting a response from the state higher education department about the mode of examinations for the new semester. But for now, the exams will be conducted in online mode only,” said an official from MU.Narsee Monjee Institute of Management Studies (NMIMS) deemed-to-be University has decided to reopen with off line classes from the first week of January, 2022. “However, for programmes where first semester exams were planned to be conducted via online mode will continue via online mode only. Meanwhile, if the state government states new guidelines, we will ensure adherence to the same,” said Meena Chintamaneni, pro vice-chancellor of the university.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/university-of-mumbai-might-continue-with-online-mode-for-summer-2022-exams-101640285055789.html
24-12-2021||Delhi||SDMC’s standing committee withdraws all proposed hikes on property tax||Ahead of the municipal elections due to be held next year, the standing committee of the South Delhi Municipal Corporation (SDMC), on Thursday, declared all proposals to increase property taxes in the budget speech for fiscal 2022-23 made by the executive head of the civic body null and void. On November 23, the SDMC commissioner proposed an increase of 2% to 5% in tax rates for residential, commercial and non-residential properties. BK Oberoi, the chairman of the standing committee, said that the budget for 2022-23 had proposed the division of all categorised residential properties into two slabs and a 14% charge of annual value as tax in the first and 12% in the second. “Withdrawing all the proposed hikes, the standing committee has decided to continue with the existing rate, which is 12% in A and B categories, 11% in C to E categories and 7% in F to H categories. Similarly, the proposal of increasing the property tax on commercial, non-residential properties in the E, F, G and H categories from 10% to 12% has also been withdrawn,” he said. The proposed hike was expected to increase the revenue from tax collection by ₹185 crore in the financial year 2022-23, as compared to ₹1,260 crore in 2021-22. However, Oberoi said that common people should not be burdened for financial gain. “The committee has also asked to reduce the 1% education cess charged on annual/rateable value of property. Education cess should be charged on the final property tax amount calculated after giving all rebates and concessions, such as 15% rebate for timely payment and additional rebate for 30% to the senior citizens, women and specially abled people,” he said. Despite repeated attempts, SDMC commissioner Gyanesh Bharti, was not available for his comments on the withdrawal of the proposals he made during the budget speech on November 23.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/sdmcs-standing-committee-withdraws-all-proposed-hikes-on-property-tax-101640284934143.html
24-12-2021||Noida||Gadkari inaugurates Intelligent Traffic System for Eastern Peripheral Expressway||Union minister Nitin Gadkari on Thursday inaugurated the first Intelligent Traffic System (ITS) network in the country on the 135-km long Eastern Peripheral Expressway (EPE). The integrated control room for the project has been developed by the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) at Dasna in Ghaziabad. NHAI officials said the ITS network has key features whereby it can detect traffic violations and generate e-challans; alert commuters about weather conditions and accidents on roads; help in surveillance of unauthorised parking and encroachment on expressway; real time monitoring of traffic and also provide an efficient incident management system among other features. Gadkari said there are future plans to integrate all the NHAI highways through the ITS network, whose master control room will be installed at NHAI headquarters in Delhi. “Every year in India, we have 500,000 accidents, which kill 150,000 people. We decided to make green expressway highway. We are making 26 green expressway highways and implemented the first ITS network in Ghaziabad. We also plan to integrate all the highways across the country with a similar system at the NHAI headquarters,” he said. He also mentioned several key highways/expressway projects which will reduce travelling time between Delhi and Dehradun in two hours; Delhi to Amritsar in four hours; Delhi to Katra in six hours; Delhi to Srinagar in eight hours; Delhi to Haridwar in two hours and Delhi to Mumbai in 12 hours. “In the next 10-12 days, we will be holding a meeting on the peripheral expressway... we have plans to acquire land near the expressway wherever rail connectivity is available and such centres will be developed as multi-modal hubs.Industrial units and godowns of Ghaziabad can be relocated here. This will help decongest the city, which can then be developed into a smart city and help reduce pollution,” said the minister. NHAI officials said the ITS is the first such network in the country and has so far not been put in place in any of the road projects undertaken by the authority. “The master control room controls the ITS from Dasna and the project is pegged at ₹300 crore. We have different sub control rooms at different junctions of the EPE. For traffic violations, the ITS will automatically generate e-challans and send it to the National Informatics Centre, from where the challans will be picked up by respective state police,” said Mudit Garg, project director of NHAI. Automatic number plate readers, part of the ITS network, have been installed at the Delhi Meerut Expressway for automatic toll deduction and also for capturing traffic violations. The NHAI has already finalised the toll rates for the Delhi Meerut Expressway, which will come into effect from December 25. “The ITS will help us detect violations and also send messages, which will be displayed on digital screens installed on the EPE. The messages could be about weather conditions, traffic congestions or incidents ahead, among others,” said Arvind Kumar, project director from NHAI. During his visit to Ghaziabad, Gadkari also inspected the rail over bridge (ROB) that is being constructed in Chipiyana near Ghaziabad, which also a part of the Delhi Meerut Expressway. The minister said the bridge will be completed by March next year. According to officials, the ROB is the heaviest in Asia weighing about 2,385 tonnes. Speaking during the event, UP’s deputy chief minister Keshav Prasad Maurya said that the projects have paved way for development in UP. “With the ‘double engine’ government in UP and at the Centre, we are sure that we will again repeat the term in UP in the next elections and we are hopeful of getting 300 seats. Without the two governments, the development in UP would not have been possible. To reach Meerut from Delhi in 40-45 minutes was unthinkable. In 2017, UP only had about 6,000km of highway network and now it is more than 12,000 km. The ITS will help monitor the entire stretch of the EPE from one centre,” said Maurya. 
24-12-2021||Mumbai||Air pollution studies for 19 cities in Maharashtra to be completed by 2023||Mumbai: The Maharashtra Pollution Control Board (MPCB) will complete mandatory source apportionment studies by March 2023 for 19 non-attainment cities —where air quality does not meet the National Ambient Air Quality Standards (NAAQS) —officials confirmed this week. The source apportionment studies are being carried out for those cities with the highest concentrations of PM10 pollutants. Non-attainment cities under the Centre’s National Clean Air Programme (NCAP) are classified as those that consistently fail to meet the NAAQS for PM10 or nitrogen dioxide (NO2) over five years.Maharashtra currently has a total of 25 non-attainment cities and five cantonment boards. Officials from the state pollution control board clarified, however, that the bulk of source apportionment studies is nearly complete, with final reports due by January 2022 for the first 10 cities, including Mumbai. The others include Pune, Nagpur, Nashik, Amravati, Kolhapur, Aurangabad, Chandrapur, Solapur and Navi Mumbai. While a similar study for Mumbai has previously been done by the National Environmental Engineering Research Institute (NEERI) in 2010, the remaining cities have not yet been studied to identify the sources of their air pollution, officials said. Interim analysis reports for these 10 cities have also been submitted to the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB), officials in the MPCB confirmed but said they are not authorised to discuss the findings. Dr VM Motghare, joint director (air), MPCB, was busy and could not respond to requests for comment.A sub-regional officer with the MPCB shared, “We have also submitted interim source apportionment reports for Ulhasnagar, Akola, Jalgaon, Sangli, Badlapur and Latur to the CPCB as well. Those cities belong to the second phase of the exercise and the final reports will only be ready by March or April next year. In the third phase, we will focus on Thane and Vasai-Virar, for which a work order has just been issued last month. The monitoring work in these cities is being done by NEERI and IIT-Bombay, and the scheduled timeline for completion is October 2023.”He also informed that source apportionment studies are mandatory for all non-attainment cities under the National Clean Air Program, but Maharashtra had already commissioned its studies before the inception of the NCAP.In addition to source apportionment studies—which involve the identification of ambient air pollution sources and the quantification of their contribution to overall pollution levels — the MPCB has also commissioned ‘carrying capacity’ studies for Mumbai, Navi Mumbai, Nagpur, Mumbai. Of these, studies for Nagpur and Navi Mumbai have already been awarded “on an experimental basis” to NEERI, for ₹6 crore, and are slated for completion by June 2022. For Mumbai and Pune, carrying capacity studies will be carried out jointly by the Central Pollution Control Board and the MPCB. Timelines and budgets for these are yet to be allotted.“Carrying capacity studies are important tools for urban planning. They will help us define in numbers the maximum level of pressure that a city’s environment can handle from anthropogenic sources, such as industries, vehicles and infrastructure. The study will take into account projected population growth in the city and see whether it can be sustained without further damage to the environment,” the MPCB official cited above explained, adding that such studies may also be commissioned after June 2022 in other large urban agglomerations within Maharashtra.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/air-pollution-studies-for-19-cities-in-maharashtra-to-be-completed-by-2023-101640284815507.html
24-12-2021||Delhi||Conman held in Delhi for duping homemakers of at least ₹2 crore||A gang that duped nearly 100 homemakers from Rohini of at least ₹2 crore through multi-level marketing Ponzi schemes was busted with the arrest of one of its members by the Economic Offences Wing (EOW) of Delhi Police, senior police officers said on Thursday.They said a woman associate of the arrested man, identified as Manish Singh, is still on the run. They added that Singh was on the run for nearly three years and was arrested by the EOW team with the help of a courier company.“The gang induced homemakers to mortgage their jewellery and take loans for investing in various multi-level marketing (MLM) schemes against high returns. We registered a case based on a complaint by 39 homemakers who lost nearly ₹2 crore. Several other ‘investors’ did not file their complaints because their families were unaware of the investments. Singh’s interrogation may lead us to identify other victims and ascertain the total amount they defrauded the women of,” said Chhaya Sharma, joint commissioner of police (EOW).The EOW officials said that one of the complainants, Promila Jain, alleged that Singh, his partner Baby Jain, and others tricked her into investing money in their schemes. Initially, Promila Jain was paid the interest for a few months. Through word of mouth, many other women also invested in the Ponzi schemes. After the scamsters accumulated money from over 100 investors, they switched off their mobile phones, changed their addresses and went on the run, said the joint CP.“They were running several schemes under different fake companies such as Social Trade Web Work, EPC Wallet, Orange Group, Sampark Food Bazaar and Click ‘O’ Click. The investors were induced through the distribution of pamphlets, kitty parties, and other get-together events. Most of these companies have now vanished from the market,” she added.Police said that the investigating team raided several hideouts of Singh and his accomplices, but could not catch them. Investigators kept a watch on his old house. Recently, they got a tip-off that a parcel was to be delivered at that address by a courier company.“We took the courier company in confidence and during the telephonic conversation with the beneficiary, it refused to deliver the parcel at any other address. It compelled the suspect to visit his old address to collect the parcel. Our team caught him as he arrived to get the parcel from the delivery person,” the joint CP said.Originally from Bihar’s Siwan district, Singh had come to Delhi after graduation in 1996 to prepare for the civil services exam. He could not clear the exam despite three attempts. Singh started a coaching centre but failed. Thereafter, he joined a company dealing in multi-level marketing and learnt the tricks of cheating investors. Singh and his associates floated several companies to run Ponzi schemes in 2016.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/conman-held-in-delhi-for-duping-homemakers-of-at-least-2-crore-101640284634261.html
24-12-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai chills at 17.9 degrees, AQI remains ‘poor’||Mumbai: After recording a minimum temperature of 18.6 degrees Celsius on Tuesday and Wednesday, the city woke up to a chilly morning on Thursday with a 17.9 degrees temperature, marking the coolest morning of the season so far. The India Meteorological Department (IMD) officials had earlier said that there will be a dip in the temperatures till December 31.Thursday’s daytime maximum temperature settled at 29.4 degrees Celsius, dipping below 30 degrees Celsius for the first time since December 1, when unseasonal rains brought the temperature to as low as 24.8 degrees Celsius. “Now that some cold wave conditions have been felt in north India, and since northerly winds are blowing over Maharashtra, the north Konkan will see a slight reduction in temperatures every day. We have been waiting for good winter conditions to set in the north first,” said an official with the India Meteorological Department’s (IMD) regional forecasting centre in Mumbai.As per the IMD’s seven-day forecast for Mumbai, the minimum nighttime temperature over the next week is expected to fall to about 17 degrees Celsius by December 26. The daytime maximum temperature is expected to hover between 30 and 31 degrees Celsius around the same time. This will be followed by slightly warmer conditions until early in the new year.City gasp for fresh airMeanwhile, the city recorded an Air Quality Index (AQI) value of 276 on Thursday, in the ‘poor’ category. The continued worsening of air quality in Mumbai entails health hazards for the citizens, health experts and doctors said. “The number of patients with respiratory conditions such as asthma, respiratory infections and heart attacks has increased in the last two months because of the worsening air quality in the city. At least 3-4 patients come to my clinic on a daily basis now,” said pulmonologist Dr Chetankumar D Jain. Health experts say that even people without any history of chronic conditions may experience symptoms such as redness and itchiness in the eyes, cough, breathlessness, dryness of the throat, and allergies due to poor air quality. Experts suggested a series of precautions like avoiding stepping out during smoggy mornings, wearing a good quality mask, and changing the mask frequently and avoiding construction sites to prevent oneself from getting respiratory issues. -With inputs from Damini Solanki||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-chills-at-17-9-degrees-aqi-remains-poor-101640284575085.html
24-12-2021||Delhi||Religious places to stay open for visitors in Delhi||The Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) on Thursday clarified that religious places in Delhi will remain open for visitors, albeit with strict enforcement of Covid appropriate behaviour. The clarification came amid confusion over the restrictions imposed on congregations in Delhi that were imposed on Wednesday ahead of Christmas and New Year festivities. “All religious places such as temples, mosques, churches, gurdwaras, etc. are already permitted to open for visitors, devotees to offer prayers within such places subject to strict compliance of related SoPs issued from time to time and adherence to Covid appropriate behaviour,” a DDMA order issued on Thursday said. No separate permission is required for these activities by churches or other religious places, the order said. In an order issued on Wednesday, the disaster management agency prohibited all social, political, religious gathering in the capital. “All social, political, sports, entertainment, cultural, religious and festival-related gatherings and congregations are completely prohibited in Delhi, hence all DMs/DCPs shall ensure that no cultural event, gatherings, congregations take place for celebrating Christmas or New Year in the capital,” said the Wednesday’s order.The Wednesday’s DDMA directive came as the country prepares to stave off a possible surge due to the highly transmissible Omicron variant. Authorities were flooded with requests seeking clarifications about the status of permission for holding Christmas prayers in the city.John Dayal, former National President of the All-India Catholic Union, said, “The Christian community is happy that the Delhi government issued a clarification that Christmas services are permitted to be held in churches. The DDMA order had created entirely avoidable anguish in the hearts of members of Delhi’s small Christian community.” A senior district administration official said they will hold meetings with the church authorities and explain to them the DDMA’s order. The official added that they will chalk out plans to ensure that all Covid appropriate behaviour is strictly followed amid festivities, and that no congregations are held in violation of social distancing norms. A Christian man associated with the community of a church in New Delhi welcomed the DDMA directive. “Since the onset of the Covid pandemic, whenever the government allowed religious services, church prayers were conducted in total conformity to the standard procedures of social distancing. The Christian faithful wear masks as required. There is ample separation between the priest and the devotees in all churches,” he said asking not to be named.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/religious-places-to-stay-open-for-visitors-in-delhi-101640284334009.html
24-12-2021||Mumbai||Virar tribal woman gets ₹4.37 lakh power bill||MUMBAI: Shaila Shabbir Sayed, 60 (pictured), a tribal resident of Shankarpada in Arnala, Virar, is in a state of shock after receiving a ₹4.37 lakh electricity bill this month from the Maharashtra State Electricity Distribution Company Ltd (MSEDCL). Sayed – who works as a housemaid and does other odd jobs for a living, and otherwise gets monthly power bills of only around ₹1,200 – has threatened to end her life if the MSEDCL disconnects her power supply as she has no means to pay such an astronomical bill.Sayed said that she has approached local activist Sheru Wagh who has taken up her case with the MSEDCL as she is illiterate and cannot carry out any of the paperwork involved. She has also registered a complaint with the MSEDCL about the exorbitant bill. “I have cleared all my earlier bills. Even during the lockdown, no linesman came to take my power meter reading but I continued to pay as I did not want to spend the night without power. A bill of ₹4.37 lakh is just unheard of…” she said.Meanwhile, Rahul Meshram, assistant engineer, MSEDCL, Vasai, said that the ridiculously high bill could be the result of a fault in Sayed’s power meter and that they would install a new meter and set right her bill.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/virar-tribal-woman-gets-4-37-lakh-power-bill-101640284274202.html
24-12-2021||Delhi||Ready for even 100k cases a day: Delhi CM Kejriwal||In light of the city’s rising Covid-19 caseload and concerns over the spread of the Omicron variant, Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Thursday assessed the Capital’s pandemic preparedness in a high-level meeting and assured residents that the state government is prepared to tackle even 100,000 daily infections.In a video briefing on Thursday, the chief minister said the city will soon be able to test up to 300,000 people for Covid-19 every day, up from around 65,000-70,000 currently.“The Omicron variant broadly has two major characteristics: it is highly transmissible and is fairly mild, with fewer hospitalisations and fatalities,” said Kejriwal, underlining, however, that the rate of transmissibility demands strong containment infrastructure.“We have increased our testing capacity to three lakh [300,000] samples per day... We are preparing for even one lakh [100,000] cases a day,” he said.He also urged residents who test positive and have mild symptoms to stay home and not get hospitalised.“We are making the home isolation model very strong. Patients will be provided with all required medicines and health care support needed in the comfort of their homes,” Kejriwal said. He added that the city’s home isolation will also be equipped to handle 100,000 fresh Covid-19 cases each day.The city’s Covid graph has ticked upwards over the past week, amid global concerns over the highly-transmissible Omicron variant of the Sars-Cov-2 virus. So far, close to 350 cases of the variant have been detected across the country, of which 64 are in Delhi, according to the Union health ministry.Delhi added 118 fresh Covid-19 cases on Thursday, fewer than 125 the previous day showed the state’s daily health bulletin, and one additional death of the infection. The new infections came at a test positivity rate of 0.19%, marginally lower than 0.2% on Wednesday.The city has over the past seven days added an average of 100 infections each day, the first time this statistic has touched triple digits since June 28. Compared to this, Delhi added just 31 cases in the seven days ending December 1.As on Thursday, 684 people in the city are infected with Covid-19.While Delhi currently has 21,000 hospital beds earmarked to treat Covid-19 patients, this number can be scaled up to 37,000 in days, if required, said state government officials, adding that 100 oxygen beds can be set up in every ward within two weeks if the situation demands. Delhi has 272 municipal wards.The state’s larger plans involve setting up over 65,000 Covid-19 beds in the coming weeks.The city endured a punishing fourth wave of Covid-19 infections between April and May that left health infrastructure overrun, overwhelmed medical workers, and led to crematoriums running out of space. Over 760,000 people were infected in that period, while over 13,000 died of the infection between April and May alone. Cases in the city begin to peter out towards the middle of May on the back of a lockdown, which the state government imposed from April 19 onwards.The state government is also creating a two-month buffer of 32 types of medicines used to treat Covid-19 patients. The government has also revamped the city’s oxygen infrastructure and is working to amp up staff power.The government is at work to procure 15 oxygen tankers within three weeks to alleviate the transport woes that impaired the city’s Covid-19 fight during the April-May surge. Apart from this, the city’s oxygen production and storage infrastructure has also been significantly upgraded since then.Hospitals have been allowed to engage 25% additional doctors & 40% additional nurses above sanctioned strength in view of the pandemic.The Delhi government’s Covid-19 helpline number— 1031 — can currently attend to between 600 and 700 calls a day. This capacity too, said officials, can be increased and more staff hired to attend to more calls.Towards the end of his briefing, Kejriwal added that he hoped the city’s strong vaccination numbers and antibody prevalence would cushion it from another bruising wave.“We hope Delhi will not be severely impacted [this time around] because sero surveys show that over 95% of the city’s residents have virus antibodies. Further, 99% residents have taken at least the first vaccine dose, while 70% are fully vaccinated,” he said.“But if Delhi is impacted [by another surge], the Delhi government is completely prepared to handle it,” Kejriwal added.Nearly all of Delhi’s 15 million adults have taken at least one dose of a Covid-19 vaccine, according to the CoWin dashboard, and over 10.5 million have got both shots.Dr Sanjay Rai, professor community medicine department at All India Institute of Medical Sciences, said it is very unlikely that Omicron is going to cause a major health crisis according to global evidence because it may be more transmissible than delta variant but Omicron’s severity is very less. “Escalation of home isolation is the best part of preparations because the Omicron causes mild infections,” Dr Rai stated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/ready-for-even-100k-cases-a-day-delhi-cm-kejriwal-101640283914078.html
24-12-2021||Delhi||Actor Rohit Roy to play Ambedkar in Delhi govt musical||Actor Rohit Roy will play the lead role in Delhi government’s play on the life of Dr BR Ambedkar, deputty chief minister Manish Sisodia said on Thursday. The play titled ‘Babasaheb’ will be released on January 5 at Jawaharlal Nehru stadium. The musical play will showcase the struggles of Dr Ambedkar, the architect of India’s Constitution. Sisodia on Thursday introduced Roy as the lead actor of the play. Rohit Roy said playing Ambedkar’s role is a lifetime opportunity for any actor. “I will try my best to portray his character to the best and bring his life struggles to you. I feel that we all have an Ambedkar within us and we must use that force to change the society,” Roy stated. There is no entry fee and bookings can be done on www.babasahebmusical.in. Viewers can also book their tickets by calling on 8800009938,Sisodia said.The play will run 50 shows, with two performances every day -- one at 5pm, and the second at 8pm.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/actor-rohit-roy-to-play-ambedkar-in-delhi-govt-musical-101640283553943.html
24-12-2021||Delhi||Delhi riots: Court frames charges against Shahrukh Pathan||A Delhi court on Thursday framed charges against the man who pointed a pistol at a police officer during the February 2020 riots and four others for attempt to murder and promoting enmity among religious groups in a case related to a man who was shot at during violence at north-east Delhi’s Maujpur. Shahrukh Pathan allegedly aimed a pistol at Delhi Police head constable Deepak Dahiya “with an intention to kill him”, on February 24 last year, the police have said in court. Pathan was arrested from Shamli district in Uttar Pradesh on March 3.Additional sessions judge Amitabh Rawat charged Pathan, Salman, Gulfam, Aatir and Osama(all referred to by their single name in court)under Sections 147 (rioting), 148 (rioting armed with weapon), 149 (unlawful assembly), 186 (obstructing public servant in discharge of public functions), 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant), 153A (promoting enmity between different groups on grounds of religion, etc.), 283 (danger or obstruction in public way or line of navigation), 353 (assault or criminal force to deter public servant from discharge of his duty), 332 (Voluntarily causing hurt to deter public servant from his duty), 323 (voluntarily causing hurt) and 307 (attempt to murder) of IPC.The court said the accused intended to promote disharmony, hatred and ill-will between the two communities and caused danger to human life.It also said that the accused persons allegedly shouted slogans intending to promote disharmony, hatred and ill-will between two communities. It added that they allegedly caused rioting intending to endanger human life, health or safety and obstructed the police officials who were posted there to maintain law and order, and used criminal force upon them.According to the prosecution, the injured person, Rohit Shukla in a police statement on February 24 last year said there were two groups of people, one of which was shouting “Allah­hu­Akbar” and protesting against the Citizenship amendment law and the National Register of Citizens (NRC). He also said the assembly turned violent and started throwing stones and one person held a pistol shot at him.Shukla had said that at another location, out of a violent crowd, a boy aged 24­ to 25 years came out with a pistol and tried to kill him. According to the statement, it was alleged that the boy fired at the witness who had then received injuries.The matter will now come up for prosecution evidence on January 21, 2022.Communal riots had broken out in the national capital claiming 53 lives and leaving over 700 injured.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-riots-court-frames-charges-against-shahrukh-pathan-101640282773796.html
24-12-2021||Delhi||Over 1,200 trees in Vasant Vihar freed of concrete, Delhi govt tells HC||The state government’s horticulture department on Thursday informed the Delhi high court that out of 1,793 trees in the Vasant Vihar neighbourhood, 1,255 have been freed of concrete, adding that the area around these trees is being revitalised by planting grass and plants.Justice Najmi Waziri was hearing a contempt plea by a resident of Vasant Vihar alleging authorities’ inaction in preserving trees and preventing them from concretisation. The department, through advocate Shadan Farasat, also said that trees in other parts of the city are being washed and watered routinely, adding that a tree census has been conducted in Vasant Vihar.On Thursday, the court reiterated that the tree census be conducted across the city. The trees should be labelled with their number and species, the court said.In it affidavit, the police told the court it has directed beat officers to take appropriate action against those who concretise trees, as well as those who park their vehicles on footpaths. The court was hearing a plea by a resident against the concreting of hundreds of trees in Vasant Vihar and alleged inaction on the part of the authorities to preserve trees. The plea also cited non-compliance of earlier orders passed by the high court as well as the National Green Tribunal.HT reported in December last year that of the total 4,993 trees on the streets of Vasant Vihar, 3,859 were heavily concretised. A tree census conducted by local residents showed over 450 trees had nails, tree guards, barbed wires etc. in or around them, 764 trees were lopped off and at least 793 trees were infested with termites.Based on HT’s report a complaint was filed with the Delhi forest department by environmental activists, and a petition was also filed at the Delhi high court. The report has also been quoted in the petition.The matter would be heard in January, next year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/over-1-200-trees-in-vasant-vihar-freed-of-concrete-delhi-govt-tells-hc-101640282533886.html
