25-12-2021||Delhi||Delhi: Retired school teacher dies in car robbery in Rohini, two held||New Delhi: A 65-year-old retired government teacher died after he was dragged on the road for a few metres along with his car while he was trying to stop two alleged robbers from speeding away with his vehicles near G3S shopping mall in Rohini Sector-11 on Thursday night. The suspects fled away with his Wagon R that they had robbed for a “joyride” while the elderly man was urinating behind the vehicle, police said on Saturday.One suspect, identified as Kapil Tiwari,27, was arrested while the other alleged robber, a 16-year-old boy, was apprehended on Saturday by teams of the Rohini district police. The stolen car was also recovered from outer Delhi’s Shahabad Dairy area, where the duo had parked it at an unauthorised parking lot. Tiwari’s interrogation led to the recovery of a motorcycle that the duo had stolen on December 16 from Rohini Sector-8 and had used it for committing battery thefts, said deputy commissioner of police (Rohini) Pranav Tayal.“The duo stole petrol from parked Bullet motorcycles to ride the stolen bike. They robbed the retired government school teacher, identified as Ramesh Chander Rana, of his car for a joyride and killed him in the process. We have booked the two for murder and robbery,” said DCP Tayal, adding that the school teacher lived with his wife in Rohini Sector-11.Police said they were waiting for the elderly man’s autopsy report to confirm the exact cause of his death, even as the doctors believed that he may have died of shock and cardiac arrest.On December 23 (Thursday) around 11 pm, the KN Katju Marg police station was informed about a carjacking and injury to a person near G3S shopping mall in Rohini Sector-11. By the time, the local police reached the crime scene, the injured man was already rushed to Baba Saheb Ambedkar hospital in a patrolling van. He was declared brought dead there. One Vijaya Rana arrived and identified the dead man as her husband, Ramesh Chander Rana. She told the police that Rana had left home for some work at around 2 pm.DCP Tayal said that one Aakash Grover was also found at the hospital and he claimed to be an eyewitness to the carjacking incident. Grover told the police that he was passing by in his car with his two friends when he saw one silver Wagon R car being driven at a high speed and a man was hanging on the driver’s side door. After being dragged for 6-7 metres, the man lost his grip on the door and fell on the road.“Grover told us that the injured man was screaming for help to catch the robbers who took away his car. The man then became unconscious. We registered a case of murder and robbery and formed multiple teams to identify and nab the suspects,” added the DCP.The teams scanned nearly 35 CCTV cameras of the routes that the suspects used after the carjacking. On Friday, they located the car parked near Anarkali Park in Shahabad Dairy. Through local intelligence, the suspects were identified and caught from Shahabad Dairy area on Saturday and also recovered a stolen bike from them.“The duo revealed that they were sitting around a bonefire with their three friend when they spotted the elderly man urinating outside his car and decided to rob his vehicle for a joyride. They sat inside the car and switched on the engine. As the elderly man noticed it, he held the driver side door window in his attempt to stop the carjacking. However, the two accelerated the car and dragged him on the road till he lost control and fell down,” said an investigator, adding that Tiwari was previously involved in five cases of burglary, theft and possessing illegal weapon.
25-12-2021||Pune||Maharashtra Waqf Board holds its first meeting in Pune, several acres of encroached properties under scanner||Pune: The Maharashtra State Waqf Board members met for the first time in the history of Pune. According to the board members, the meeting was held to decide on the future course of action related to illegal grabbing of waqf lands in Pune city and district. The meeting was attended by Aurangabad MP Imtiaz Jaleel, MLC Dr Wajahat Mirza, Rajya Sabha MP Fauzia Khan and seven other members. The meeting which began early in the morning continued till late in the evening. Jaleel said, “The meeting is being held in the city for the first to decide on the future course of legal action against the offenders who had grabbed waqf land. We have urged the board to take tough action against the violators and ensure that the grabbed lands are restored back to the board.” MLC and Waqf Board chairman Wajahat Mirza said “ We have taken some very important decisions aimed at increasing revenue generation of prime waqf properties in the state. The board has lodged FIRs against those who had indulged in fraud and illegal sale of waqf lands. We want to reduce the pendency issues before the board. We received around 150 complaints in the Pune region which are being looked into by the board.”The Pune waqf lands have been under the scanner of several state and central agencies with the Enforcement Directorate (ED) recently interrogating two accused in Tabut Inam Endowment Trust waqf land fraud case. Deputy collector (land acquisition) Ajay Pawar attached to Pune district collectorate has been interrogated by the central agency in connection with the ₹9.64 crore waqf land scam. The ED had raided the residence of one Zarif Khan who according to the police and investigating agencies is the mastermind of the Hinjewadi waqf fraud. Khan has been absconding in the case while the anticipatory bail applications of Sahil Munna Khan, Rehana Ishraque Khan and Uzair Ishraque Khan have been rejected by a Pune court recently. The FIR in relation to the case was lodged by Pune Regional Waqf Officer Khusro Khan at Bund Garden police station. According to the FIR, Taboot Inam Endowment Trust, which is registered with the Waqf board, owns eight hectares 57.1 R land at Gat no. 335/1 in Maan village in Mulshi taluka of Pune district. The state government acquired five hectares 51 R land of the total for the Rajiv Gandhi IT Park. The government was supposed to give around ₹9.64 crore to the trust in return and accordingly the government had released an amount of ₹7.73 crore. The amount was siphoned off by the accused who prepared bogus documents and resorted to cheating the government. According to waqf board officials, Pune has nearly 2,800 wakf properties on 3,724.55 hectares located in prime areas like Deccan Gymkhana, Kondhwa, Baner and Aundh which have been illegally grabbed and under litigation. According to the waqf board officials at Pune, the issue related to a 50 acre waqf land belonging to a Mughal era mosque in Kondhwa Budruk, 80 acres spread from More Vidyalaya to the ILS Law College in Deccan including waqf land parcels in Karve, 23 acres waqf land in Aundh and Pimple Nilakh are also being dealt with utmost priority. Currently, the Maharashtra state government has lodged seven FIRs against waqf land encroachers in the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/maharashtra-waqf-board-holds-its-first-meeting-in-pune-several-acres-of-encroached-properties-under-scanner-101640455767550.html
25-12-2021||Pune||PMC will require 300 more vehicles for garbage collection||PUNE: Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) will require 300 more vehicles for garbage collection in merged villages and the civic administration has started the process of purchasing it. Municipal commissioner Vikram Kumar briefed the elected members about it. Elected members raised the issue of shortage of garbage vehicles and unattended waste piles in the city. The civic administration placed the proposal for purchasing the spare parts for various vehicles. The public representatives pointed out that vehicles are not picking up garbage on time and most of it are not functioning. Kumar said, “It is true that many vehicles are not working due to shortage of spare parts. That’s why the administration has put the proposal for procuring it. Many new areas got merged into PMC placing additional burden on the civic body. To carry out garbage collection more effectively in merged villages and other areas, PMC will require 300 more vehicles. Very soon the administration would put the proposal in front of the standing committee for approval.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pmc-will-require-300-more-vehicles-for-garbage-collection-101640455531468.html
25-12-2021||Pune||High Court stays Ambil odha development work||Pune: The Bombay High Court has stayed the work carried out at Ambil odha (stream). Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) was carrying out development work in Ambil odha near Dandekar bridge and there have been tensions between residents and municipal administration over encroachment. Residents allege that PMC is carrying out work to benefit developers and filed a petition in the high court. The court listed the plea and instructed the civic administration to maintain status quo till the next hearing. The Ambil odha encroachment drive has caught the attention of authorities with many state leaders visiting the area.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/high-court-stays-ambil-odha-development-work-101640455288716.html
25-12-2021||Pune||Community surveillance to gauge spread of Omicron variant in Pune||PUNE According to officials, at least 315 samples have been collected from Pune and Pimpri-Chinchwad in order to understand the community spread of Omicron variant. These samples are randomly positive samples from the city and their genome sequencing will highlight if they are the Omicron variant. Pune district has reported 41 cases so far. Directorate of health services issued a letter stating that community surveillance on the emergence of the Omicron variant will be carried out from December 21 to 31.Dr Archana Patil, director of health services, Pune said daily positive samples of RT PCR from Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC), Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC) and Mumbai will be collected and sent for genome sequencing. “Hundred samples each day from PMC and PCMC and 300 samples from Mumbai will be sent for genome sequencing. PMC and PCMC samples will be sent to BJ Medical College,” said Dr Patil.Dr Rajesh Karyakarte, professor and head of department, Microbiology, BJ Medical College said that the whole genome sequencing of positive patients will be done for PMC and PCMC. “These are randomly selected RT PCR positive samples. As Omicron cases are on the rise, we are trying to see if there is community spread of the variant. Until December 21, we have sequenced around 865 samples and there has been no Omicron variant in the test results. There are 499 samples which are in the process of sequencing,” he said.He added that patients who tested positive and have a travel history, their samples are sent to National Institute of Virology (NIV) in Pune.“Community samples are to be collected in bulk. At present the positivity rate is very low. As of now, over 300 samples are ready for genome sequencing run which will be done on Sunday,” said Dr Karyakarte. “Earlier,at least 1,364 samples were sequenced. Sufficient samples should be sequenced to get a better and clear picture of the lineage of the virus. Whole genome sequencing of more samples should be emphasised,” added Dr Karyakarte.Speaking about the samples, Dr Pradeep Awate, state surveillance officer said that the samples are still being collected and the results are expected soon.For community surveillance, BJ Medical College will distribute samples to Indian Institute of Science Education and Research (IISER) and National Centre for Cell Science (NCCS) as per the requirement. Whereas in Mumbai, Kasturba Central Laboratory will conduct the genome sequencing and additional samples will be referred to BJMC as per the order.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/community-surveillance-to-gauge-spread-of-omicron-variant-in-pune-101640455170320.html
25-12-2021||Mumbai||Night schools in Mumbai struggle to keep full strength of students||Mumbai: Once abuzz with activity and full strength, night schools in the city are now struggling to come back to normalcy in the pandemic- more so, with a possibility of a third wave looming large. Determined to get the students back to classes, the principal of St Xavier’s Night High School Ajit Dave and his team are on the lookout for the students in slum areas, who did not return to the school after they reopened a few weeks ago.“We have tried reaching out to the students through the contact numbers provided by them but most are unreachable,” began Dave with palpable angst in his voice. He shared, “We normally have a strength of about 150 students spread across classes 6 to 10 but at present, only 7-10 students attend physical classes regularly.”Dave and his team now hope that they may find the students at the addresses provided by them.This is the current scenario with the majority of Mumbai night schools. Most students studying at night earned a living in the day and due to the pandemic, many have lost their jobs and are now settled in their respective hometowns. What’s worse is the fear of a third wave which is pushing more people away from the city.Mumbai is home to more than 120 functional night schools, most of them in south Mumbai. In 2013, there were 151 schools in the city but over the years, several schools have shut down or merged with other existing night schools due to falling demand and the pandemic has made things even worse. Niranjan Giri, who teaches at Modern High School in Mumbai Central said Of the 120 existing night schools in the city at present, only a handful of schools managed to start online classes during the 2020-21 academic year and this year, most institutes are working on 10-25% attendance for physical classes. “In the last few years itself, ten schools in the city shut down due to lack of students and three of those were merged into my school. While it might look like new rules have pushed more students to opt for day schools, the fact remains that night schools are the only source of education for the middle-aged as well as the elderly population of the city and we need to support them,” he said. Most night schools bring together students of all age groups, but all are determined to study. “I work as a nursemaid at Cama Hospital and for many years it has been my dream to study till class 12 at least. But during the pandemic, we were so busy with work that I could not attend online classes and at present, I’m busy taking care of my grandchild so getting back to school is becoming a problem,” shared a former night school student.While the school education department, as well as civic authorities, are encouraging school principals to reach out to students and bring them back to school, several non-profit organisations are also supporting the cause. “Several problems are plaguing the night school student count—students who went back to their hometowns have not returned, many lost their livelihood and can now not afford to stay in Mumbai without a job, while many are still not vaccinated which means they can’t attend a physical school,” said Nikita Ketkar, CEO, Masoom, an NGO that works closely with night schools. While the NGO helped a few students in finding employment in 2020 to ensure they continue studying, this year the organisation has also gone door-to-door looking for students on-roll who have not come back for in-person schools. “We recently were informed about a student of a night school who along with her mother was forced to live on the streets after her mother lost employment and could not find another job to pay rent regularly. We contacted some of our regular donors and have now managed to give the mother-daughter duo shelter and some extra money on the condition that the girl gets back to school,” added Ketkar. (With inputs from Ria Nag) 
25-12-2021||Pune||Woman carrying husband’s mortal remains among two killed in highway accident||PUNE: The unidentified driver of a tempo truck was booked for killing two people, including a woman who was carrying her husband’s body to the native place, and injuring three others in a hit-and-run in the early morning hours of Friday along the Mumbai-Bengaluru highway stretch in the jurisdiction of Hinjewadi police station. The deceased were identified as Sita Bai Hari Chauhan, 54, of Pindar Gaon in Taloja, Navi Mumbai and Mahesh Vishwanath Saravade, 44, a resident of Koparkhairane, Navi Mumbai. The injured were identified as Manohar Chauhan, 26; Raj Chauhan, 35, and Shivaji Maruti Katare, 30, all residents of Navi Mumbai. The two deceased and three injured were in an ambulance carrying a body to Karnataka when the rear tyre of the ambulance suffered a puncture. “The body was of the deceased woman’s husband who died of heart attack. They lived in Navi Mumbai but were natives of a place in Karnataka. She and two of her relatives were taking her husband’s body to Karnataka for final rites,” said sub-Inspector SJ Kadam who registered the case. While Chavan was accompanying her husband‘s mortal remains, her son Manohar and a relative Raja, were accompanying her. Saravade was the driver of the ambulance while Khadtare was the cleaner on the ambulance. “The tyre had punctured in the early morning hours along the highway. The streetlights were not on and the tempo came speeding and rammed into them. The woman was inside the ambulance while the driver was changing the rear tyre. The others were standing in front of the ambulance and escaped without serious injuries,” said sub-inspector Ajit Kakade of Hinjewadi police station who is investigating the case. The police are on the lookout for the driver of the tempo found to be registered in Pimpri-Chinchwad. A case under Sections 279, 304 (A), 337 and 338 of the Indian Penal Code along with Sections 132 (1) (C), 184, 119/177 of the Motor Vehicles Act was registered at Hinjewadi police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/woman-carrying-husband-s-mortal-remains-among-two-killed-in-highway-accident-101640454987156.html
25-12-2021||Noida||Five-month-old Sarus chick found dead in Dhanauri wetlands||A five-month-old sarus crane was found dead at Dhanauri wetland in Gautam Budh Nagar while another Sarus crane was found infected at the same spot on Saturday afternoon and is being treated by veterinary officers, said forest officials. District forest officer P K Srivastava said that a local found the two sarus chicks unconscious at Dhanauri wetland on Saturday and informed the forest departement around 12 noon.”Forest rangers immediately reached the spot and got the birds examined by the chief veterinary officer. While one was declared dead, the other one was alive and given medical treatment,” said Srivastava. “Dhanauri is the largest habitat for sarus crane in Gautam Budh Nagar. There has been a steady rise in the population of birds,” said Srivastava adding that the official count of the bird at the wetland, which spans over 101-hectares, is currently 120. Anand Arya, a Noida-based birder who was among the first to have found the wetland in 2014 and initiated the legal battle for its recognition as a Ramsar site, said that the wetland needs immediate conservation. “I have been fighting for Ramsar recognition for Dhanauri wetland but it has not been done yet. If the site had been recognised as a Ramsar site, the wetland would have been more protected and such incidents could have been avoided,” said Arya. Ramsar sites are the wetlands of international importance. India is a signatory to the Ramsar Convention held in 1971 in Iran that seeks to recognise and protect important wetlands of the world. India currently has 47 sites designated as Wetlands of International Importance (Ramsar Sites), with a surface area of 1,090,230 hectares. Srivastava said the district forest department is working on getting the wetland a Ramsar tag. Other than Dhanauri, sarus cranes are found in various small fields and marshes of the district, such as Khodna Khurd, Ishapur, Rawani Bujurg, Parsaul and Nagla Bhatona.
25-12-2021||Pune||Pune district reports 260 new Covid cases and 6 deaths||Pune: As per authorities, Pune district has reported 260 fresh Covid positive cases and six deaths on Saturday. Three deaths were reported from Pune rural. No death was reported from Pimpri-Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC) and three deaths were reported from Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC).As per the state health department, Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) has so far reported 525,204 Covid cases and 9,241 deaths till Saturday. PCMC has reported 270,880 cases so far and a total of 3,520 deaths due to Covid. Pune rural has reported 369,345 total cases so far and 7,023 deaths.In Pune district, there are 1,165,429 lakh Covid cases. Out of this, 1,143,341 patients have recovered. There have been 20,134 deaths and at present, there are 1,954 active cases. As per the state health department, 796 patients were discharged on Saturday in Maharashtra taking the total to 65,02,039 in the state. The recovery rate in the state is 97.68%.Across Maharashtra, 1,485 new cases were diagnosed on Saturday and 12 deaths were reported. The Case fatality rate in the state is 2.12%.The state health department stated, out of 68,353,269 laboratory samples, 6,656,240 have been tested positive till Saturday. That is 9.74% of patients till Saturday. Currently 92,048 people are in home quarantine and 887 people are in institutional quarantine.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pune-district-reports-260-new-covid-cases-and-6-deaths-101640454930644.html
25-12-2021||Noida||We have carried out development without discrimination, says Yogi||Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath said on Saturday that the BJP government has done works in the state without discrimination and be it the construction of the Ram temple in Ayodhya or the abrogation of Article 370 in Jammu and Kashmir, the party has delivered on its promises. Yogi was in Ghaziabad to attend the ‘Jan Vishwas Yatra’ on Saturday on the occasion of the birth anniversary of former Prime Minister Atal Bihari Vajpayee. The yatra is a roadshow launched by the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) on December 19 to extend its outreach among the public in the run up to the state assembly elections scheduled in the first quarter of 2022. Ghaziabad has five assembly segments, all of which are ruled by BJP MLAs. The rally , which was taken out from Bijnor last Sunday among the other districts in western Uttar Pradesh, reached Modinagar in Ghaziabad on Saturday. “Through this yatra, we have come to seek your blessings. Under the leadership of Prime Minister Narendra Modi, the BJP government, during the past five years, has done works without any discrimination and has introduced policies for women, traders, youth and every segment of society,” said Adityanath during the gathering at Kalka Garhi Chowk. “On one hand we carried out development and public welfare works while respecting religious beliefs, on the other hand, we did not hesitate to drive bulldozers on the illegal properties of professional mafias. We did what we said and the works are before you. What the BJP told you five years ago, whether it was related to the construction of the Ram temple in Ayodhya or abrogation of Article from 370 for Jammu and Kashmir, we have done it,” said the CM. Adityanath was accompanied by Union minister General V K Singh (retired), who is also an MP from Ghaziabad. After the public address, both Adityanath and Singh boarded a ‘rath’ (a decorated and furnished vehicle) and participated in the rally. “We will continue our agenda of security and prosperity and will protect your interests,” said Adityanath during the course of the rally. BJP workers and supporters chanted slogans of “Modi, Yogi” and “Jai Shri Ram” during the entire rally, which was taken out from Kalka Garhi Chowk to Thakurdwara, a distance of about 2.5km. The city unit of the BJP also made arrangements for the CM’s welcome at about 50 different locations on the route. The Ghaziabad traffic police announced major traffic diversions from 3pm over GT Road and Ambedkar Road--the two key roads of the city. While the roadshow started at around 7pm, commuters had a tough time wading through congested roads in Nehru Nagar, Kavi Nagar, Loha Mandi, Lal Kuan and other locations as police had put up barricades on roads and announced traffic diversions on Saturday evening. “Hundreds of commuters in their vehicles were stuck up in Nehru Nagar, Kavi Nagar and Vivekanand flyover and even pedestrians were finding it difficult to move. Since it was Christmas, the diversions compounded traffic congestions,” said Akash Vashishtha, a resident of Raj Nagar. Police said that the roadshow ended in about two hours while personnel were deployed to manage traffic on different routes. “It is estimated around 20,000 people participated in the rally. We deployed our personnel to ensure smooth flow of traffic while ensuring safety and security of the participants of the rally along the designated route,” said Nipun Aggarwal, superintendent of police (city 1).
25-12-2021||Pune||Biker dies after ramming into flyover divider in Pune||PUNE: A 22-year-old two-wheeler rider was killed after hitting the road divider along Shankar Sheth road in the small hours of Thursday. The diseased was identified as Shivam Tukaram Aglave of Kashewadi in Bhavani peth area of Pune. The diseased was speeding on the Atal Bihari Vajpayee flyover in front of Kumar Pacific Mall around 1 am. “At the spot of the accident the biker lost control of his vehicle and slipped and fell after banging on to the divider of Atal Bihari Vajpayee flyover in which he sustained injuries on his forehead, chin, face as well as left leg and blunt force trauma on other parts of the body,” read a statement from the police. A case under Sections 279 and 304 (one) of the Indian Penal Code along with Section 184 of the Motor Vehicles Act was registered at Khadak police station against the deceased.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/biker-dies-after-ramming-into-flyover-divider-in-pune-101640454567412.html
25-12-2021||Pune||States should take call on imposing curbs depending on situation, says Bharati Pawar||PUNE In the light of the increasing numbers of Omicron patients, Bharati Pawar, minister of state health and family welfare, government of India, on Saturday said that depending upon the situation states should decide whether to impose Covid induced curbs or not. Pawar interacted with media representatives during her Pune visit on Saturday. Pawar also assured quick assistance from the union government to the states if the need be. As omicron cases have been increasing in some states including Maharashtra, which has imposed restrictions ahead of holiday season and new year celebrations. “In the states where Covid cases are increasing, respective state governments can decide on restrictions to be imposed. Wherever help is needed, we will provide it. But in case of restrictions, it will be a decision depending upon the situation in the states. If people follow the rules, then risks can be reduced. If rules are not followed then they are increasing their own risks,” said Bharati Pawar. She also said that teams are being sent to the states where Covid situation has become sensitive. “The union government has taken meetings with states. The Central government will send teams in those states where the situation is sensitive, in order to find out the challenges, problems and also provide guidance if need be. The Centre has issued guidelines and the top officials are monitoring the situation,” added Pawar. BOX Health minister of Maharashtra Rajesh Tope, said that lockdown will be imposed in the state if the requirement of medical oxygen exceeds the limit of 800 MT per day. “There is a possibility of a third wave due to the rising Omicron cases. Now, we have decided that level curbs will depend upon the consumption of medical oxygen. The day oxygen exceeds the limit of 800 MT per day, we will impose a lockdown. If this variant spreads quickly then this limit of 800 MT may have to be reduced to 500 MT,” said Rajesh Tope while speaking in Jalna.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/states-should-take-call-on-imposing-curbs-depending-on-situation-says-bharati-pawar-101640454508170.html
25-12-2021||Other||‘Sextortion’: Gurugram police trace three suspects to Assam||Nearly a year after a 33-year-old practising lawyer from Gurugram lodged a complaint that he first received a clip of a sex chat where his face was embedded, and then the sender threatened to upload the morphed video on social media if he did not pay up ₹5 lakh, the Gurugram Police on Saturday said that they have traced the suspects to Assam.According to senior police officials, the clip of sex chat video was morphed to extort money and a gang with roots in Assam and Rajasthan was behind this racket.“We have identified three suspects, who were served notices on Friday under Section 41A (notice of appearance before police officers) of the Criminal Procedure Code to join investigations,” said KK Rao, Gurugram Police commissioner.“After over an 11-month investigation, the cyber police teams traced the IP address and location of the video and the location from where calls were made. The suspects were operating from Assam and the calls were made from Bharatpur in Rajasthan. We have seen many gangs based out of Assam involved in sextortion cases,” Rao said, adding that two teams were sent to Assam twice, but no arrests could be made. The gang has duped over 300 people in Delhi-NCR this year, police officers said, adding that they have received over 50 complaints from Gurugram alone. Police said the fraudsters first befriend the victims on WhatsApp, Instagram or Facebook and then lure them using sex video clips. “A woman, who is part of the gang, make video calls to the victim after getting his number during their chat and starts stripping during the call, while encouraging him to do the same. The victim, with no idea that the call is being recorded, gives in. Then the gang blackmails the victim by threatening to upload the photos on social media,” said Rao. Rao said that the gang sometimes also sends morphed video clips to the victim to extort money as in the case of the lawyer who had lodged the complaint at the Cyber police station in December last year. A case under Section 384 (extortion) of Indian Penal Code and Section 67A (material which contains sexually explicit act or conduct) of the IT Act was registered, police said. According to police, many victims give in to extortion demands and avoid lodging a complaint for fear of social stigma. Aman Kumar Chauhan, the lawyer, said that he registered a complaint at Cyber police station in December last year. Chauhan, a resident of Bhora Kalan in Pataudi, said that as soon as he received a call the screen went blank and the call got disconnected on its own. “Within minutes, I received a video on my WhatsApp number where my face was superimposed onto another man performing a sexual act while talking to a woman. I was shocked and then approached police,” he said. In January, a 35-year-old executive of a private company and was asked to pay ₹3 lakh by the suspects, police said. In March, a 45-year-old senior executive of a private company was also targeted in a similar manner. “I received a call from an unknown number. When I took the call, there was a nude woman on the screen. For a few seconds, I could not understand what was happening. I disconnected the call. A little later, I received a video where my face had been embedded,” he said, seeking anonymity. The executive paid ₹1 lakh to the suspects, but did not approach the police. 
25-12-2021||Noida||With nine fresh cases, Covid tally in Ghaziabad highest since June||Nine fresh Covid-19 cases were reported in the district on Saturday, taking the total tally of infections reported in the month of December to 67, the highest in the last six months since June, when the district recorded 324 cases. Of the 67 cases reported this month, 40 are active patients, 35 of whom are in home isolation while the remaining are taking treatment in hospitals. Of the cases reported on Saturday, two cases each have been reported from Indirapuram, Vasundhara and Vaishali while the three other cases have emerged from Kavi Nagar, New Vijay Nagar and a high-rise in Sahibabad. A 14-year-old boy studying at a school in Indirapuram is among those who tested positive for the infection on Saturday. According to official data, there are four patients studying in educational institutions in Ghaziabad, Delhi and Gurugram who tested positive for Covid on Saturday. A 41-year-old man, a resident of Vaishali and basketball player who returned from Central Africa’s Cameroon on December 17, are among the confirmed cases reported on Saturday. “The cases which are coming to the fore are either asymptomatic or have very mild symptoms. We are keeping a track of all cases. Most of the cases have travel history while others are mostly contacts of previously infected patients. Our focus is now on early detection through rigorous testing and early treatment so that the spread of the infection can be checked,” said Dr Bhavtosh Shankhdhar, chief medical officer (CMO). According to official data, total 324 Covid cases were reported in the district in June, which drastically dropped to 65 in July, 26 in August, 18 in September, 14 in October and six in November. “There has been a rise in Covid infections and the cases are increasing gradually. It is likely that the trend will continue... Hence, it is vital that all Covid precautions, such as wearing of face masks and maintaining social distancing, is strictly observed and enforced,” said Dr Ashish Aggarwal, former president of Indian Medical Association (Ghaziabad). In order to keep a check on rising Covid cases in the state, UP chief secretary R K Tiwari on Friday issued a government order imposing a night curfew from 11pm to 5am starting from December 25. It has directed that the “mask nahi to samaan nahi” (no items to be sold to anyone not having mask) initiative be implemented, as part of which officials will have to spread awareness among traders not to sell items to customers, who come to shops without wearing masks. The order also said that Covid help desk should come up at malls/super markets and no one should be allowed in without face masks. The order further stated that for events being held in closed premises, maximum 200 people should be allowed at a time while the capacity has been capped to 50% for functions being held in open spaces. 
25-12-2021||Noida||Yogi distributes mobiles among 200 students from Gautam Budh Nagar in Lucknow||As many as 200 final year college students from Gautam Budh Nagar received free tablets and mobile phones from chief minister Yogi Adityanath at an event organised at Atal Bihari Vajpayee Ekana Cricket Stadium in Lucknow on Saturday on the occasion of former Prime Minister Atal Biharee Vajpayee’s birth anniversary. The meritorious students were from Km Mayawati Government Girls PG College, Badalpur in Dadri, IITM College in Greater Noida and Government ITI College in Sector 31.The devices were distributed as part of the UP government’s ‘free tablet and smartphone distribution campaign’for the technical empowerment of youth in the field of education. “The Covid pandemic has had a huge impact on education and students who could not afford digital devices were at a disadvantage. Hence, this scheme aims to provide the devices to all college students in the district, who do not have tablets and mobile phones, so they can continue with their education. Students can register for the scheme through Digi Shakti portal online,” said Dharamveer Singh, district inspector of schools, Gautam Budh Nagar. “For the launch of the scheme, the devices were distributed to 200 students of our district, who were invited to Lucknow for the event. All final year students of government colleges in the district will get mobiles and tablets under the scheme at an event that will be organized at the district level. The total number of students from Gautam Budh Nagar, who will receive the devices, is yet to be finalized,” said Singh. He added that a committee has been formed under the chairmanship of the district magistrate for the device distribution programme at the district level. In the first phase, only final year students are being provided with the devices but programmes will be organized at the district level for distribution to other students as well.The target is to distribute laptops and smart phones to 6,800,000 students in the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/yogi-distributes-mobiles-among-200-students-from-gautam-budh-nagar-in-lucknow-101640454387086.html
25-12-2021||Pune||New year party time to cut short by three hours in Lonavla||PUNE Lonavla administration has decided to cut short New Year party timing by 3 hours after the state government reintroduced restrictions. Although the state government has allowed restaurants to continue dine-in till midnight, in Lonavla, New Year parties will have to conclude by 9pm.The move comes after the state government in Friday issued notification stated that gathering of more than five persons in all public places across the state is prohibited from 9 pm to 6 am.“In Lonavla special squads are active from December 25 to check whether organisers are closing down parties at 9pm. We are not allowing parties to extend till midnight, the decision is taken to not allow larger groups of people at the one place,” said Somnath Jadhav, chief executive officer (CEO), Lonavla municipal council.As a precautionary measures, the Lonavla administration has taken this decision as twin hill station Lonavla and Khandala are already witnessing heavy rush of tourists. “Police bandobast has been increased and a more squads are placed on tourist destinations to keep track of people following mask rule. We have started collecting fine again like we used to do during the first and the second wave,” added Jadhav.Most of the resorts in Lonavla were expecting restrictions to come in place after Covid-19 cases again started to rise in other states. “We had not made any special plans for the New Year bash. We all played safe as we know, if we invest in big events then we would have suffered a bigger financial loss than what we are suffering now. However, if we had been allowed to organise a party till midnight then we could have not faced more financial loss,” said Rohit Karindikar, owner of a resort in Lonavla.Big parties cancelled in Mahableshwar and PanchganiOmicron threat has spoiled the business of hotels and resorts in Mahableshwar and Panchgani as many tourists have cancelled their plans after Covid 19 cases surged in Maharashtra.“Despite low key celebrations, we were receiving good bookings for hotels and resorts. Now many have cancelled their holiday plans and have asked for refund. Third wave threat has raised our concerns again as it impacts our business badly and unfortunately we did not receive any relief packages from the state government,” said a spokesperson from Panchgani Hotels and Welfare Association.The dine-in Mahableshwar and Panchgani hotel will continue till midnight, however, restaurant owners have cancelled big parties.Low key New Year in PuneMost of the bars, pubs and restaurants in Pune are not organising any special parties for New Year. “We are not investing any extra money on special bands and music shows which are generally part of the celebration, but with restrictions in place we are not creating much hype,” said Sarvesh Jadhav, owner of Austin 40 café house.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/new-year-party-time-to-cut-short-by-three-hours-in-lonavla-101640454207586.html
25-12-2021||Indore||MP CM lays foundation stones of ₹1,417 cr worth of Indore metro rail works||Madhya Pradesh chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan on Saturday laid the foundation stone for Indore Metro-related works, including the construction of 16 stations and 11-kilometre viaduct, cumulatively worth ₹1,417 crore, an official said. Addressing the event, the CM said the the metro route will be circular like a ring starting from Devi Ahilyabai Holkar Airport and passing through various areas in the city. The metro rail work here had come to a standstill during the previous Congress government, he alleged, adding that the project was moving ahead at full speed now. He directed officials to conduct a survey to extend Indore metro to the neighbouring holy city of Ujjain as well as the Pithampur Industrial Area. The foundation stone for the first phase of the 31.55-kilometre-long Indore's metro rail project, estimated to cost ₹7,500.80 crore, was laid by then CM Kamal Nath on September 14, 2019. In another programme, Chouhan said, "I want every city in the state to celebrate its birthday, which can be found with the help of historians. If the date is not known, then a date can be fixed." He said cities should be well decorated during their birthday celebrations and eminent personalities associated with them must be invited.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/indore-news/mp-cm-lays-foundation-stones-of-rs-1-417-cr-worth-of-indore-metro-rail-works-101640453358897.html
25-12-2021||Noida||Section 144 of CrPC to be in force in Gautam Budh Nagar till Jan 31||Gautam Budh Nagar police on Saturday said Section 144 of the Code of Criminal Procedure (CrPC), which prohibits the gathering of four or more people in a public space, will now be in force till January 31. Ashutosh Dwivedi, additional deputy commissioner of police (ADCP) law and order, issued an order to this effect on Saturday. Dwivedi said that the order has been issued as there are some festivals and exams in January and to check the spread of Omicron variant in the district. “The government is organising some board examinations in January. Conducting these examinations smoothly is a priority. The district police had already imposed Section 144 of the CrPC last month, which is valid till December 31. The revised order mandated Section 144 in the district till January 31,” he said. The order states that no person will be allowed at a public place without face mask. Since the night curfew also came into effect on Saturday, only vehicles engaged in emergency services and those carrying essential goods will be allowed to ply from 11pm – 5am. Dwivedi said the police will also make special arrangements to conduct examinations in the district. “The examinee should not carry calculator, mobile phones or any prohibited items to the examination centre. The police will also ensure that no photocopy shop remains open around 200 metres from the exam centres on the day of exam and a day before to check for malpractices,” he said. Any kind of protest or gathering will not be allowed during this period.Police said people violating the above guidelines will be booked under Section 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant) of the IPC.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/section-144-of-crpc-to-be-in-force-in-gautam-budh-nagar-till-jan-31-101640453666922.html
25-12-2021||Pune||One arrested in Chakan shooting, murder of wrestler||PUNE: One person was arrested while three others are on the run in the case of murder by shooting of a wrestler in his SUV car in Chakan area of Pimpri Chinchwad late on Thursday night. The incident was caught on the CCTV camera installed near a beer shop in Shel-Pimpalgaon area of Khed. The arrested was identified as Shivkant Shivram Gaikwad, 43, resident of Chakan. The diseased wrestler was identified as Nagesh alias Tatya Subhash Karale, 37, of Chakan. The CCTV camera clip of the murder shows Katare entering his black SUV and sitting in it after which another car pulls up behind him and four people come out of the second car and shoot multiple rounds at Karale. Karale sustained gunshot injuries on his head, face, chest, hands, and abdomen, which caused his death. He was rushed to a hospital but brought dead, according to the police. “We are looking for the main culprit. We have custody of the arrested accused till December 30,” said senior inspector Vaibhav Shingare of Chakan police station. “We found four bullet shells from the spot. The body of the accused was found by people who rushed to the car after listening to the gunshots and the assailants fled in the car in which they had arrived. They are relatives and have multiple tensions between them including a land-related dispute. We cannot comment on what led to the murder,” said inspector (crime) Anil Devade of Chakan police station who is investigating the case. A case under Sections 302 (murder), 34 (common intention), 120 (B) (criminal conspiracy) of the Indian Penal Code along with Section 3 (25) of Arms Act and Sections 3 and 7 of Criminal Law Amendment Act was registered at Chakan police station on Friday morning.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/one-arrested-in-chakan-shooting-murder-of-wrestler-101640453246902.html
25-12-2021||Noida||Eight officials of UP industrial development body suspended for corruption||The state government suspended eight officials of the Uttar Pradesh State Industrial Development Authority (UPSIDA) for their alleged corruption in allotting plots in Sikandrabad industrial area in Bulandshahr.Anil Kumar, joint secretary, industrial development, Uttar Pradesh government, issued the suspension letter on December 23. The move comes after Jewar MLA Thakur Dhirendra Singh filed complaints against the officials to the UP government. The MLA said that the UPSIDA’s regional office is located in Greater Noida. “The officials from this office manage development works in the region. In December 2019, a local resident, Sunil Upadhyaya, had come to my office and complained about the corrupt practices of some officials in the Sikandrabad area,” said Singh.  “Another resident, Sudesh Kumar, submitted details of his plot allotment and alleged corruption on the part of the officials. He also submitted an affidavit with his application stating that all the details provided by him were correct and true to his knowledge. The officials deliberately delayed the plot allotment and other related works if they were not given bribe,” he said.The MLA said he collected some evidence and then brought the matter to the attention of UP chief minister Yogi Adityanath, who directed the officials to probe the matter. “The government has now suspended eight officials involved in the corrupt practices. The suspended officials include a former regional manager of UPSIDA in Greater Noida,” he said. Sources said that one of the eight indicted person died a few months ago.Singh said that the action will send a strong message that corrupt practices will not be tolerated. “This will also create a business-friendly environment in the region,” he said.Mayur Maheshwari, chief executive officer of the UPSIDA, did not responds to calls or messages seeking a comment on the issue.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/eight-officials-of-up-industrial-development-body-suspended-for-corruption-101640452586910.html
25-12-2021||Other||SGPC to give ₹5 lakh reward for info on sacrilege bid accused||Amritsar With the Punjab Police failing to trace the antecedents or identify relatives of the man, who attempted sacrilege at the Golden Temple on December 18, the Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (SGPC) on Saturday announced a reward of ₹5 lakh for anyone providing information leading to him. The man was lynched to death. SGPC president Harjinder Singh Dhami said, “The SGPC will give a reward of ₹5 lakh to the person who gives information about the identification of the accused and his family. There is no doubt that the Sangat has punished the accused for his actions, but it is important to unearth the conspiracy that led to this. The identity of the person who will give information about this accused will remain confidential.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/sgpcto-give-rs-5-lakh-reward-for-info-on-sacrilege-bid-accused-101640452286957.html
25-12-2021||Mumbai||BMC seals Lal Path Lab in Dadar as 12 staff test positive||Mumbai The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) on Friday sealed Lal Path Lab on Gokhale Road in Dadar West after 12 members of its staff tested positive. Initially, a pantry boy of the lab tested positive. After that, BMC traced high-risk contacts of the patient. A total of 39 high-risk contacts were traced by BMC’s G/North ward, all of whom were working with the patient at the lab. Of the 39, 12 contacts tested positive.Since the staff who have tested positive have addresses spread across the city, the G/North ward has informed the respective ward offices to carry out further contact tracing of each of the 12 staff members. While one of them resides out of Mumbai, the addresses of others are spread across Chembur, Malad East, Worli, Kurla East, and Matunga.The index case, which is the pantry boy has been shifted to NSCI in Worli, where he is being treated. The lab will remain sealed until further notice.Until recently, BMC traced an average of 15 high-risk contacts per positive patient, as per directions from the municipal commissioner. However, due to the outbreak of Omicron variant, the civic body began tracing up to 20 high-risk contacts.A senior civic official said, “None of them has contacts with international passengers as per the information available at present.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/bmc-seals-lal-path-lab-in-dadar-as-12-staff-test-positive-101640452166786.html
25-12-2021||Mumbai||Former Mumbai Indians player Raje starts cricket academy in Badlapur||For those aspiring for a career in cricket, here’s a chance to train under someone who has played the sport at a more competitive platform.Rohan Raje, 35, a former Mumbai Indians player opened his own academy at Gorphode ground in Badlapur on Saturday. The opening of the academy was attended by former India international and now a mentor, Abhishek Nayar and Mumbai Ranji Trophy player, Tushar Deshpande.“The pitches made at this academy are unique. I am sure the students here will get a very good exposure under Raje,” said Nayar.Raje, who played for Mumbai Indians in 2008 and 2009 in the IPL and who lives in Badlapur, said that whatever he has learned in IPL and while playing for Mumbai, he would share with the budding players.“I used to wake up at 4am and travel to Mumbai for matches. I want cricket players to have the opportunity here in Badlapur so that they can give more time for the sport. I have learnt a lot during the days when I played IPL and I would like to share the same at the academy,” said Raje.The academy, named Pro Athletes Cricket Academy, has six nets including two for kids and is located at the Gorphode ground in Hendrepada, Badlapur (W). The academy has already got 25 admissions.“There are many potential players in the outskirts. However, due to lack of exposure, they fail to make a mark. If provided with proper guidance, they can go further,” added Raje.The coaching at the academy would be headed by Kiran Ramayane while Raje will join him frequently.“This is such a good opportunity for cricket players like us who do not have much exposure to the sport as we come from the outskirts and have less idea about the proper process to reach the bigger platform. If players like Raje share their experiences, it will definitely help many like me,” said Ishaan Gaikwad, a 14-year-old trainee at the academy.
25-12-2021||Other||Only struggle, not poll plunge will help farmers: BKU Ekta-Ugrahan||Sangrur With some farmers’ unions deciding to contest Punjab assembly polls, Bharti Kisan Union (BKU Ekta-Ugrahan) said farmer unions should focus on resolving issues of farmers through struggle, than hoping to gain anything from electoral politics. The biggest farmer outfit in Punjab claimed that they will not support any party, but have also not given any call of a poll boycott either. State president Joginder Singh Ugrahan and general secretary Sukhdev Singh Kokri Kalan said, “Farmers’ struggle against farm laws has proved that the rights and interests of farmers cannot be saved and ensured by sitting in Parliament or assemblies; this can be achieved only through struggle.” “We consider electoral politics as a derailing and misleading activity and therefore, we will call for people and farmers to maintain their unity,” they said, adding that they have had to hold Pakka Morchas (permanent sit-ins) opposite deputy commissioners or SDM offices in 15 districts for implementation of demands, even after the Punjab government had accepted these.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/only-struggle-not-poll-plunge-will-help-farmers-bku-ektaugrahan-101640451867105.html
25-12-2021||Mumbai||Nehru Nagar rape and murder of minor: HC upholds life term for Javed Shaikh||Mumbai: The Bombay high court (HC) on Thursday upheld life imprisonment for Kurla resident Javed Rehman Shaikh for raping and murdering a 9-year-old girl from Nehru Nagar, Kurla in June 2010. As per the prosecution case, the incident took place on June 6, 2010. The child went missing after she stepped out to play with children in the neighbourhood. Her parents, Noorjahan and Khurshid - after extensive search, lodged a missing person report with the Nehru Nagar police station. On June 19, 2010, a local resident Razak Shaikh got information about a decomposed body inside a room in the locality. Shaikh informed the police about it. Noorjahan and Khurshid identified the body as that of their daughter, primarily on the basis of the clothes found lying at the spot. The case had gathered widespread attention, as two more minor girls had gone missing from the locality. Under pressure to crack the case, the Nehru Nagar police had rounded up 14 suspects and on June 23 sent their samples for DNA fingerprinting. Javed was placed under arrest on July 1, after forensic reports revealed that his DNA matched with the samples collected from the decomposed body. Police examined 36 witnesses in support of their case against Javed and on September 5, 2015, the sessions court convicted him for kidnapping, raping and killing the minor and sentenced him to life imprisonment. On Thursday, a division bench of justice SS Shinde and justice Surendra Tavade dismissed his appeal and upheld the life term handed down to him. The bench held that the prosecution had proved the chains of circumstances against Javed beyond reasonable doubt. Apart from his DNA matching with the samples found on the body of the victim, the bench said, the prosecution duly proved that the deceased was seen with him. “Similarly, the appellant was last seen together with the deceased girl. The pant of the appellant was stained with the blood for which he has not offered any explanation,” said the bench. It added that the convict had produced red wire – matching with the wire pieces found at the scene of the crime and his pants was found stained with the blood for which he had not offered any explanation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/nehru-nagar-rape-and-murder-of-minor-hc-upholds-life-term-for-javed-shaikh-101640451026682.html
25-12-2021||Mumbai||3 arrested in Thane for cloning at least 414 ATM cards, stealing money||The Shil-Daighar police, on Friday, arrested three accused for allegedly cloning at least 414 ATM cards and stealing data to withdraw cash from their accounts.The accused had stolen money from a 65-year-old complainant’s account by engaging her grandson, who had come to withdraw money from an ATM, in a conversation. The accused took his ATM card, cloned it on the skimmer machine that one of the other accused carried in his trouser pocket, later took out all the details of his bank account and passwords and withdrew ₹73,000.According to Shil-Daighar police, the incident occurred in July this year. Since then, the concerned bank and police officials were continually searching for the modus operandi and the accused.After the bank had completed their procedure, the complainant registered a case in September. The complainant, Vandana Gori, sent her teenage grandson to withdraw cash from the Bank of Baroda ATM at Dahisar Naka, Shil-Daighar. He met three people who indulged him in a talk, took his ATM card for a few seconds and returned it. The following day, Gori received a message of ₹73,000 being debited.Assistant police inspector, Pradip Sarfare, said, “We were behind these accused for the past few months. The three arrested are from Uttar Pradesh. They’d return home after eight to ten such theft cases. The trio got this training from the village they belong to. They said that most in their village are involved in such activity. We had their CCTV footage and through other technical details like dump data records and several other ways, we tracked them. Recently we came to know they were in Thane city, after which we laid a trap and arrested them.”The arrested have been identified as Jamil Shaikh (21), Govind Singh (25) and Ashishkumar Singh (22). They have hardly completed their second year of college. Police have recovered data of 414 ATM cards from their laptops and are reaching out to the owners to get details about the fraud that they faced.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/3-arrested-in-thane-for-cloning-at-least-414-atm-cards-stealing-money-101640450131526.html
25-12-2021||Mumbai||Covid surge forces authorities to restrict year-end celebrations||Mumbai As Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) has banned New Year parties and gatherings at all public and commercial places across the city, Mumbaiites have chosen house parties or quiet weekend getaways near Mumbai for New Year celebrations. Some Mumbaiites have chosen to attend New Year’s bash outside the Greater Mumbai jurisdiction, even as event planners and commercial party hosts are looking for a last-minute destination outside the city.On Friday night, BMC issued an order disallowing New Year parties in the city. Restaurants, bars and pubs, and eateries will still continue to remain open but will have to operate at 50% of the capacity. This comes in light of the recent spread of Omicron cases. To date, 46 Omicron cases have been reported in Mumbai. Over the past three days, Mumbai has recorded a rise in the number of daily Covid cases. On Saturday, Mumbai reported 731 Covid cases. The trend of increase in daily count started on December 21, Tuesday, when Mumbai reported 312 cases in a day, followed by 480 cases on December 22, 577 cases on Thursday, and 673 on Friday. However, Mumbai on Saturday reported zero deaths, for the sixth time in the month of December.Regarding curbs on New Year celebration in Mumbai, Suresh Kakani, additional municipal commissioner in charge of the public health department in BMC said, “Restaurants that serve food, and those that also serve alcohol are allowed to remain open on December 31, and operate at 50% capacity, with prior reservation of tables from their customers. If any of them choose to do something special or different- it’s allowed, as long as they do not break the rule of less than 50% of their capacity.”As large parties are no longer allowed, event planners said their business has been badly affected by the last-minute decision. A city-based event planner, who did not wish to be named, said, “We sold tickets for our event on the internet. Now we have two options, either to refund the money to those who have made the bookings or to shift our venue to a location outside the city.”Meanwhile, the state and city authorities have also imposed night curfew to curb its transmission.On Saturday, the state reported 1,485 new Covid cases and two Omicron cases from Aurangabad.Some of the districts have imposed curbs, while there are plans to impose restrictions at hill stations and weekend spots to prevent crowding. In addition, the state has also ramped up its vaccination drive.On Friday night, the state government announced a night curfew between 9 pm to 6 am across the state. Recently, the Ahmednagar administration launched the ‘No vaccine, No entry’ order, where those who are unvaccinated are not allowed in various places. Those who are not vaccinated will not be allowed to enter various public areas, including private establishments, shopping malls, hotels, restaurants, cinemas, auditoriums, marriage halls, government or semi-government offices. The Nashik administration already has this restriction in place.State surveillance officer Dr Pradeep Awate said that the restrictions are imposed in view of the surge. “Our first priority is to prevent gatherings as Omicron cases are on the rise. We have instructed the local district authorities to impose curbs according to the local conditions,” said Dr Awate.There are indications that the popular shrine in Ahmednagar, Shirdi Sai Baba temple, may also impose curbs on the devotees.Pradeep Shetty, senior vice-president of Hotel and Restaurant Association of Western India (HRAWI), called the night curfew a regressive step. “After almost two years of sitting at home, citizens were looking forward to welcoming the new year at their favourite restaurants. However, this announcement has come as a dampener,” said Shetty.Meanwhile, the state government is ramping up the vaccination drive. According to the health department, the second dose of around 10.20-10.30 million people in the state is due and efforts are made to complete their vaccination. Similarly, 5,13,84,885 citizens have been fully vaccinated, that is, approximately 56% of the targeted population of 91.50 million people. The people who have taken the first dose come to 7,95,26,375, which is 86% of the targeted population.Dr Archana Patil, director, Maharashtra Health Services, said that they are not leaving any stone unturned to vaccinate the people. “We are calling up people, having flexible timings as well as roping in celebrities to ramp up our vaccination drive,” said Dr Patil.On Saturday, Maharashtra added 1,485 new Covid cases, taking its tally to 66,56,240. It also reported 12 fatalities due to Covid, pushing the death toll to 1,41,416. The positivity rate stood at 1.26% as 1,485 cases were recorded of the total 1,17,793 tests. The active cases in the state stood at 9,102, in which Mumbai leads with 3,703 active cases followed by Pune and Thane at 1,954 and 1,240 respectively. The death toll stood at 1,41,416 with Pune leading with 19,784 followed by Mumbai with 16,368 and Thane with 11,589.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/covid-surge-forces-authorities-to-restrict-year-end-celebrations-101640449947841.html
25-12-2021||Pune||Auto metre recalibration process moves at snail’s pace||PUNE Out of one lakh registered auto-rickshaws in Pune and Pimpri-Chinchwad only 16, 700 metres are recalibrated, according to the Pune regional transport office (RTO) data.As per the revised fare which is applicable from November 22, the fares were increased to ₹21 instead of Rs18 for the first 1.5 km and thereafter, Rs14 for every km, according to revised rates approved by the Regional Transport Authority (RTA) of Pune division.“Deadline for them is January 31, 2022, we are sending constant reminders and also conducting special drives to recalibrate meters, only a few are showing good response. A huge number of auto-rickshaw drivers have still not recalibrated the meter of auto-rickshaws; only 16, 700 registered auto-rickshaw drivers have upgraded their meters,” said, Sanjiv Bhor, deputy regional transport officer.There are 27-meter recalibration service centres in Pune and Pimpri-Chinchwad where autorickshaws can upgrade the meter.“The auto rickshaws which are running in the city area have upgraded their meters while many which are providing service to Ola and Uber are yet to upgrade it. Many auto-rickshaw drivers are showing new rate cards and charging fare,” said Shivaji Lohokare, who runs a meter recalibration service centre at Dandekar Pul.Auto drivers charging extra from publicEven though, RTO has warned auto-rickshaw drivers to not charge more than meter rates – the driver who has not upgraded the meters are asking for ₹20 to 30 more for a ride.“If they have not recalibrated meters, they have to take a fare of ₹18 for the first 1.5km and they cannot charge extra. We have received few complaints from commuters from whom auto-rickshaw drivers have charged extra money and action will be taken against such auto rickshaw drivers,” said Ajit Shinde, RTO.Vaishnavi Gargi, a resident of Aundh, said “Twice auto-rickshaw drivers asked for Rs30 extra and when I asked them, they start arguing and both of them did not have a rate card.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/auto-metre-recalibration-process-moves-at-snail-s-pace-101640448386665.html
25-12-2021||Mumbai||Thane Municipal Corporation records 50+ Covid positive cases for the first time in 45 days||Thane Municipal Corporation (TMC) has noted a marginal increase in daily positive cases. After more than 45 days, the Covid positive cases have breached the 50 Covid positive cases mark.The last time the Covid positive cases touched 50 or more in Thane city was on November 10. And, on Friday, the city recorded 53 positive cases.“Keeping in mind the new Covid variant, Omicron, we had planned to increase the number of tests in the city. A gradual increase in daily testing has been noted but the overall positive cases continue to be under control. As the positivity rate within the city is still at 0.29%, there is nothing to panic. We have enough provisions in terms of beds and oxygen facilities as well. Also, we are closely monitoring the daily number of cases and are keeping a track of all the international passengers,” said Dr Vipin Sharma, Thane Municipal Corporation chief.Despite TMC’s claims about the testing having been increased, there has hardly been a rise in the tests. Until last week, there were regularly around 1,800 to 2,000 tests being conducted by the TMC. This week, it has slightly increased to around 2,600 tests. In the last 45 days, the daily positive cases were continuously among 30 to 40 daily positive cases. The weekly average was also below 40 cases every week until this week when the weekly average is close to 50.“The hesitancy among residents to get tested continues. People claim that they are vaccinated and have not come in close contact with any traveller or positive person, and hence they are safe. Moreover, as very few have symptoms nowadays, there are fewer who come forward to get tested,” said an officer from TMC’s testing team on the condition of anonymity.TMC continues to propagate vaccination and provide vaccination facilities to all quarters with the aim that vaccination will help curb the increase in cases.“We are conducting vaccination among naka kaamgars (daily wage workers) at various junctions across the city. We have also initiated vaccination camps in the evening at some locations in the city. The more people get vaccinated, it will help curb the number of cases,” said an officer from TMC.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/thane-municipal-corporation-records-50-covid-positive-cases-for-the-first-time-in-45-days-101640448208214.html
25-12-2021||Mumbai||Thane Municipal Transport resumes stand booking, revenue up by 6% to 8%||The Thane Municipal Transport (TMT) has resumed its stand booking facility post-Covid. This has helped increase the revenue by around 6% to 8% on a daily basis, claims the transport department.During peak hours, the buses are crowded and often many have to get down within two or three stops. It becomes difficult for a single conductor to manage the crowd and give tickets. Hence, this facility to provide tickets at the bus stand or depot itself has become convenient.“It is only after we started such a facility a few years ago that we realised we could manage the situation better. Owing to the pandemic, we had stalled this system as there were fewer people opting for public transport. With a large number of people being vaccinated now, the number of travellers has increased and is almost equivalent to the pre-Covid times. Hence, we resumed the stand booking facility and thus saw an increase in revenue by 6% to 8%,” said Bhalchandra Behare, TMT manager.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/thane-municipal-transport-resumes-stand-booking-revenue-up-by-6-to-8-101640446827546.html
25-12-2021||Other||Warring meets Kejri, seeks restart of buses to Delhi airport||Amritsar Punjab transport minister Amrinder Singh Raja Warring on Saturday met Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal in the lobby of the hotel where he is staying in Amritsar, and sought the restart of a government bus service from the Delhi airport to Punjab, which either of the state governments must start again. Kejriwal, who is here on a two-day Punjab tour, and was heading to a meeting, told Warring that he agreed with the demand.Later, a Punjab government press release said Volvo buses of the State Transport Undertaking (STU) have been barred from going to Indira Gandhi International Airport, even as these charged only ₹1,200 per passenger, even as Badal family’s privately-owned buses were being allowed, despite charging between ₹3,000 and ₹3,500 per passenger.Warring added that he had written 13 letters to Kejriwal, but the Delhi CM still pretended to be unaware of the issue. Prior to this, the principal secretary, transport, K Siva Prasad has also raised the issue in writing with his Delhi counterpart four times from December 6, 2018 to August 21, 2019, but Kejriwal had neither stopped the entry of Indo-Canadian buses nor allowed Punjab Roadways and the PRTC to go till the transport, he claimed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/warring-meets-kejri-seeks-restart-of-buses-to-delhi-airport-101640445986554.html
25-12-2021||Other||Sacrilege now routine, a political conspiracy: Akal Takht jathedar||Amritsar Sacrilege incidents have become a ‘rampant routine’, as the Central and the state law enforcement agencies had failed to bring the perpetrators to justice, acting Akal Takht jathedar, Giani Harpreet Singh, has alleged, adding all this was a part of a deeper conspiracy against the Sikhs. The jathedar said this after a meeting with the five high Sikh priests. The meeting had been called in the wake of the sacrilege attempt at the Golden Temple on December 18. “For the past few years, some invisible anti-Panthic powers, under a deep conspiracy, have been degrading the honour of the Guru Granth Sahib... this has now reached the Golden Temple. No law appears to be taking any effective action, nor has judiciary awarded strict punishment,” the jathedar said, after the meeting, adding that hundreds of accused were handed over to the law, with most acquitted on the grounds of mental illness.  “The intelligence agencies of governments are appearing helpless in curbing these incidents of sacrilege, and identifying the hidden powers behind them,” the jathedar claimed, adding, “If the government of India and its investigative agencies, the intelligence wing and the judiciary had acted immediately after the culmination of the farmers’ agitation and played their role responsibly, it would have been a slap on the faces of the conspirators, who are trying to break Hindu-Sikh unity.”“In the wake of the incident at the Golden Temple, we appeal to the Panth that under a deep political conspiracy attempts are being made to disrespect the honour of Sikh institutions, gurdwara management committees and sects. Women, children and mentally ill people are being used for such acts. All gurdwara management committees should take adequate steps to curb such incidents,” he added.The jathedar also expressed disappointment against a section of the media, which, he claimed, tried to present a ‘wrong image of Sikhs by ignoring the disappointing working of the state’s law’.Giani Ranjit Singh Gauhar-E-Maskeen, jathedar of Patna Sahib, Giani Malkiat Singh, head granthi of the Akal Takht, Giani Raghubir Singh, acting jathedar of Takht Sri Kesgarh Sahib, and Giani Gurminder Singh, granthi of the Golden Temple, were also present at the meeting.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/sacrilege-now-routine-a-political-conspiracy-akal-takht-jathedar-101640445626369.html
25-12-2021||Mumbai||MPCB discovers 9 spots in Badlapur where waste mixes with Ulhas River||The Maharashtra Pollution Control Board (MPCB) has found nine spots in Badlapur region where activities like discharging of untreated effluents, domestic waste and vehicle washing are leading to pollution in Ulhas River.Ulhas River is a major source for drinking water for Kalyan, Dombivli, Badlapur, Navi Mumbai, Ambernath and Ulhasnagar.An investigation was initiated by the MPCB officials of Kalyan division in November after the local residents of Rayate village complained of water pollution in Ulhas River on November 22. Following the findings, the MPCB has written to the Kulgaon-Badlapur Municipal Council (KBMC), pointing out the cause of the pollution in the river in its jurisdiction and also highlighting the measures to be taken by the civic body.During the investigation and the visits by the MPCB officials, it was observed that a part of untreated domestic effluent generated from KBMC area is mixing into the Hendrepada nullah, which ultimately meets the river. Also, the domestic effluent generated from the old Badlapur area is also discharged into the river.The officials found that the domestic effluent generated from the cow shed located at Sonavali, Yadav Nagar, Badlapur (E) observed discharging into the Ulhas River without treatment and domestic waste discharged into the Panvelkar nullah.The vehicle washing activities were observed at Badlapur Chowpati, which also mixes with the river water.“We have identified several such spots in the city where the domestic waste is discharged into the nullah that further meets the river. There is no proper treatment done to this waste and hence the pollution. The council has been asked to set up necessary sewer networks so that the domestic waste does not mix with the nullah,” said an officer of MPCB, Kalyan.The pollution control board has asked the KBMC to come up with proper sewer networks in those parts of the city in order to treat the domestic waste.KBMC chief officer, Yogesh Godase, said, “There is a regular visit carried out by the MPCB in the region and they ask us to come up with measures to deal with the domestic waste. Accordingly, several works are undertaken. The work for a sewer network for the mentioned areas is already under progress, which will be completed by 2022. The project cost is ₹43Cr. This will help ensure the domestic waste from those areas is not adding to the river.“Meanwhile, there are chemical effluents of industrial area that mix up with the domestic waste that we have mentioned to the MPCB. This is one major reason for the pollution in the river,” added Godase.
25-12-2021||Pune||Two hours mega block planned on Pune-Mumbai e-way on Dec 28||PUNE The Pune-Mumbai Expressway will be blocked by the Maharashtra State Road Development Corporation (MSRDC) on December 28 between 12 pm and 2 pm in order to erect message boards on the overhead structure on the way to Mumbai.As per notification issued by Maharashtra State Road Development Corporation , traffic will be put on halt for the two lanes going towards Mumbai to place message boards. Four-wheelers and other passenger vehicles will be released slowly on one lane while heavy vehicles will be stopped before the start of work.“We are focussed on completing the work in two hours, hence we chose a weekday (Tuesday) because there is less traffic as compared to the weekend,” said the official from MSRDC.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/two-hours-mega-block-planned-on-pune-mumbai-e-way-on-dec-28-101640445026347.html
25-12-2021||Patna||Red faces after sudden postponement of Munger bridge inauguration||The double-decker road and railway bridge over Ganga river in Bihar’s Munger district, whose inauguration scheduled for Saturday by union minister for road transport Nitin Gadkari was suddenly postponed on Friday evening, will now be formally opened up after January 15 next year, 20 years after its foundation stone was laid in 2002.State’s road construction minister Nitin Nabin said the bridge would formally be inaugurated after January 15 following the end of Kharmas (a month-long period considered an inauspicious for starting new ventures as per Hindu religious beliefs).Although no official reason was given for postponement, road construction department (RDD) officials said the approach road to the bridge was yet to be completed. “We plan to open it on January 16 tentatively,” said the minister. The 3.8- kilometre-long bridge, constructed at a cost of ₹2,776 crore, will connect Munger with Jamalpur and make road and railway traffic more convenient for those commuting to north Bihar and eastern parts of the state and north eastern India.The postponement of inauguration, which Gadkari himself informed on Friday evening citing “unavoidable reasons”, has raised many eyebrows given the fact that the minister himself, in a virtual speech from New Delhi earlier in the day, had announced the completion of the bridge and expressed his happiness over dedicating the bridge to the people on December 25, the birth anniversary of former prime minister Atal late Bihari Vajpayee. Gadkari had said the bridge had been named after Bihar’s first chief minister and eminent freedom fighter Shri Krishna Sinha. Nabin said it was Vajpayee who had laid the foundation stone of the double decker bridge in 2002.According to officials, the 14-kilometre-long approach road to the bridge is not complete yet while one of girders was installed just about 10 days back. One of the reasons for the delay in completion of the bridge has been hurdles in land acquisition for the approach road and encroachments in the stretch, sources said. The state cabinet, a few months back, had sanctioned ₹60 crore for acquisition of the land following which work started on the approach road, officials said. Nabin conceded technical hurdles. “Chief minister Nitish Kumar also advised that it would be not be prudent to open the bridge unless it commutable because of the technical specifications and asked us to hold the inauguration for a fortnight,” he said. Earlier, there was a political controversy over union rural development department minister Giriraj Singh’s name missing from the invitation cards for the event. Singh, MP from Begusarai, was reportedly upset over not being invited at the event, prompting Gadkari to invite him personally. Singh’s name was later included in the invitation cards.“The issue was sorted out. There was some confusion as officials thought the project fell in Munger district although the approach road fell in Begusarai district. It had nothing to do with the event getting postponed,” the RDD minister said.
25-12-2021||Patna||Bihar panchayat poll winners allege threat from criminals||Panchayat elections in Bihar are over, but the newly elected representatives, who constitute the electorate for the impending elections for block pramukh and other posts, are a frightened lot after the killing of 13 of them, including five mukhiyas (panchayat heads).The election for chairman for district boards and deputy chairmen is scheduled from December 27 to January 3, while the election for deputy mukhiya and deputy sarpanch is scheduled from December 24 to 31. The election for panchayat samiti chief and deputy chief will be held from December 27 to January 3. Several elected representatives have complained of threat from notorious elements to vote for their favourite candidates in these elections. For instance, in Khusrupur block in rural Patna, newly elected members of panchayat samiti have alleged life threat from a history sheeter Sanjay Yadav, whose wife Anju Devi has been elected to the panchayat samiti from Sukerbeg-Chak panchayat. In letters sent to top police officers and the Governor, they have said, “Yadav has issued a diktat that all should vote for his wife in the block chief’s election, else they will be shot. He is going door-to-door, issuing threats. Many panchayat samiti members have left their homes out of fear. Yadav faces nearly 30-40 cases and is absconding on record,” the letter says. One of the members, Naresh Ravidas of Hardas Bigha, alleged that the local police of Khusrupur was in collusion with Yadav and no effort was being made to arrest him. “History sheeters have got their wives or kin elected to control things by proxy. They want their representation in block and district level committees, which happens through election from among the elected representatives. This is causing more unrest,” said a mukhiya, who did not want to be quoted. Dinesh Prasad, former mukhiya of Kasimchak panchayat in Danapur, who lost this time, said that increase in fund allocation to the panchayati raj institutions had made the stakes higher. “Be it the appointment of teachers, purchase of solar lights, payment under Mahatma Gandhi Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme, rural development work, job cards or food grain distribution or any other activities, PRIs have been under scanner over corruption charges due to higher flow of funds,” he said. Panchayati raj minister Samrat Choudhary said he has already directed the additional chief secretary of his department to provide security to any elected representative if he or she feels any threat. “With over 90% new members winning this time, it is really a big challenge for the administration to ensure their security,” he said. Additional director general of police (headquarters) Jitendra Singh Gangwar said ADG (law & order) Binay Kumar has written to all district police chiefs to take action.Meanwhile, Station House Officer of Khusrupur police station, Chandra Bhanu, admitted that Sanjay Yadav is absconding and said raids are on to nab him. 
25-12-2021||Mumbai||Serial offender arrested in Kalyan, wanted in several cases across Maharashtra||What started as a routine investigation into a robbery case earlier this week led the Mahatma Phule Chowk police to a serial offender with cases registered against him across Maharashtra, including two jail breaks from two different prisons since 2018.Police said that the probe was initiated on Wednesday after Kalyan resident Santosh Gupta (19) lodged a complaint. Gupta had gone to Kalyan railway station on Wednesday to drop his mother, who was travelling to Uttar Pradesh, when he was robbed. In his statement, Gupta said that he was buying fruits for his mother at a stall outside the station when an unidentified person accosted him, forcibly took his cell phone and fled the scene at around 11.30am. The police registered a case of robbery against unknown persons under and started inquiries.“We obtained CCTV camera footage of the accused and sought assistance from local informants, which led to a tip off that the accused would regularly frequent the station premises to target lone passengers or commuters. We laid a trap late on Wednesday night, and intercepted the accused from outside the station at around 10.45pm,” senior police inspector, Ashok Honmane, Mahatma Phule Chowk police station, said.The accused, identified as Avinash Gaikwad (26), was searched and was found to be carrying five cell phones including the one stolen from Gupta that morning. He was taken to the police station for questioning, and allegedly confessed that all the other cell phones were robbed as well, two of them from the Kalyan station premises.“We scanned our records and found that we had FIRs registered for the other cell phones he had robbed in Kalyan earlier this year. Further inquiries also revealed that he had broken out of the Adharwadi Central Jail in Kalyan last year. He was in the area where prisoners meet visitors when he managed to slip out of the prison, and an offence was registered against him with the Khadakpada police in this regard,” Honmane said.Gaikwad was placed under arrest and produced in court, after which he was remanded in police custody till Monday. The police then interrogated him further and found that he had cases of robbery and burglary registered with him in police stations like Paithan, Pandharpur Rural, Parali, Pachod, Aurangabad GRP and Kalyan Railway Police from 2018 till date.“Gaikwad hails from Paithan and keeps shuttling between there and Kalyan, committing crimes to make money. He was arrested in 2018 and lodged in the Pandharpur jail, and had broken out of it as well. We have sought necessary information regarding this jailbreak from the concerned police station,” Honmane said.The Mahatma Phule Chowk police have informed all the other police stations where Gaikwad is wanted about his arrest, so that they may seek his custody in connection with their respective cases. The police are still interrogating him to find out if he has committed any more crimes than the ones that have already come to light, officers said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/serial-offender-arrested-in-kalyan-wanted-in-several-cases-across-maharashtra-101640444366335.html
25-12-2021||Pune||Uday Samant inaugurates Maha faculty development academy||PUNE Uday Samant, minister of higher education and technical education (Maharashtra) on Saturday inaugurated Maharashtra State Faculty Development Academy (MSFDA) at Model Colony in Pune. Samant said it is the only state government institution in the country to have initiated a structured institute for faculty development as envisaged in the National Education Policy (NEP) 2020.“MSFDA is a ₹60 crore project and we are inaugurating the first phase today. This building will be functional as a higher and technical education department. Offices of joint directors such as technical education, higher education, Maharashtra State Board of Technical Education (MSBTE) will be housed here. Facilities of accommodation for the trainees have also been made,” said Samant after inaugurating the new building.Speaking on the occasion, Samant announced that the joint directorates under his department and important offices will be moved to one campus soon in order to facilitate work for students, colleges and institutions.The institute has entered into agreements with Indian Institute of Science, Education, and Research (IISER) and Initiative of Change at Panchgani to train and enhance the knowledge of over one lakh professors in the state. “Aim is to create an eco-system in higher education so that whatever good has to be offered by someone can be shared. We are turning towards a multidisciplinary education pattern. Earlier as well, training programs for teachers were carried out. Maharashtra has become the first state in the county to start a dedicated training program and a structured academy for over one lakh faculties from 4,000 colleges and 1,500 technical colleges in the state not only at their induction but as a continuous process. The training will be given at every stage,” said Nipun Vinayak, Executive Director (MSFDA).Samant emphasised that this training program will be eventually extended to the teachers from private colleges and non-teaching staff from colleges and universities. He also announced that a special training unit for the candidates who wish to appear for UPSC and MPSC would also be started here.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/uday-samant-inaugurates-maha-faculty-development-academy-101640443646522.html
25-12-2021||Mumbai||Event to unveil Atal statue cancelled at last minute||Mumbai An event to unveil the statue of former prime minister Atal Bihari Vajpayee by Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) MP Gopal Shetty, in the presence of party national president JP Nadda, had to be cancelled at the last moment due to the state government denying permissions.The BJP had organised an ‘Atal Mahotsav’ to mark the memory of the former prime minister, whose birth anniversary was observed on Saturday. The programme was held at a sports complex at Kandivali East, where Nadda was scheduled to be present.However, Shetty, who represents Mumbai North in the Lok Sabha, said that the inauguration of the statue had to be cancelled as sports minister Sunil Kedar, who belongs to the Congress, and holds charge of the sports portfolio, denied permissions. “The Mumbai suburban district collector and the commissioner of sports had given their consents in March. However, the file was pending till 4.45 PM on Friday and the permission was refused,” charged Shetty. He added that this had led to Nadda cancelling his visit to Mumbai.This last-minute denial had also prevented the BJP from approaching the courts for redressal, said Shetty. Kedar was not available for his comments despite repeated attempts. However, Mumbai Regional Congress Committee (MRCC) president Bhai Jagtap questioned, “How can BJP leaders celebrate Atal Mahotsav when the number of Covid and Omicron cases are on the rise.” Jagtap said that while they respected Vajpayee, it was wrong to launch public celebrations in times of a public health emergency.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/event-to-unveil-atal-statue-cancelled-at-last-minute-101640442866230.html
25-12-2021||Mumbai||Navi Mumbai Municipal Corporation to organise online sports festival from Jan 15-Feb 2||The sports and cultural department of Navi Mumbai Municipal Corporation (NMMC) will organise an online sports festival 2021-22 for the residents of the city.NMMC commissioner, Abhijit Bangar, said, “The competition will be held from January 15 to February 2, 2022 online as well as on ground. It will be held in two phases. In the first, 20 sportspersons will be selected based on their performances from the online rounds for the final round – the second phase – which will be held on a ground. The top three men and women from each of the groups will be given cash awards and certificates. All the participants will get online participation certificates.”Registration for the competition can be done on www.nmmc.gov.in. The last date for registration is 10pm on January 5, 2022.Chess, yoga competition, basketball skill challenge, football skill challenge, fitness challenge and other sports figure in the online competition. The competition has been divided into various age categories of unde-14, U-17, U-19, U-30 and open for men and women.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/navi-mumbai-municipal-corporation-to-organise-online-sports-festival-from-jan-15-feb-2-101640442811838.html
25-12-2021||Mumbai||MMRDA to develop roundabouts on Airoli-Katai Naka freeway in Navi Mumbai to ease traffic congestion||For the convenience of the residents of Airoli, the Mumbai Metropolitan Region Development Authority (MMRDA) is developing two roundabouts on the Airoli-Katai Naka freeway near the residential areas of the node.Through these roundabouts, the residents will be able to board the freeway and alight from it easily.According to the MMRDA officials, the freeway will have two arms (or elevated roads) in Navi Mumbai. While the first arm will start near the Mulund-Airoli creek bridge (Airoli end), the other will start from Thane-Belapur Road.“We have observed that the Airoli node and its peripheries have a population of more than one lakh. To board the freeway for their routine commuting, people will have to travel either to the creek bridge or to Thane-Belapur Road on a daily basis and that will create traffic congestion in the entire area. To avoid that, we are developing two roundabouts at Airoli and residents will be able to board the freeway without travelling much,” a senior officer from MMRDA said.“Presently, it takes around 40 minutes to travel from Airoli to Katai Naka. With the completion of the freeway and by using the roundabouts, the Airoli residents will reach NH-4 in 12 minutes. Around 50% work of the roundabouts has been completed so far,” he further said.MMRDA has undertaken a 12.30km elevated road project, and it is expected to cut down the travelling distance between Airoli and Kalyan-Dombivli by 10km.“The phase 1 which includes developing an elevated road connecting Thane-Belapur Road with NH-4 will be completed by March 2022 while the tunnel road from Central MIDC to NH-4 near Mumbra will be completed by March 2023. The second phase, an elevated road between Mulund-Airoli creek bridge (Airoli end) and Thane-Belapur Road, is likely to be completed by December 2022. The third phase of elevated road between NH-4 and Katai Naka is still in the tendering stage. The estimated cost for the first phase is ₹382.02Cr and the second phase is ₹275.90Cr,” the officer further said.
25-12-2021||Delhi||Delhi sees biggest jump in new Covid cases since June, logs 249 infections amid Omicron spread||Delhi on Saturday registered more than 200 cases of coronavirus disease (Covid-19), the biggest single-day rise in number of infections since June, as Omicron variant continues to spread rapidly in the country. With as many as 249 fresh infections, Delhi's cumulative tally has shot up to 14,43,062.The last time Delhi reported more than 200 Covid-19 cases in a day was on June 16 when 212 infections were logged. Saturday's spike is also the biggest jump in 24-hours since June 13 when 255 coronavirus cases were recorded, according to health bulletin data.Furthermore, the national capital reported yet another death due to Covid-19 on Christmas, thereby taking the death toll to 25,104. This was the sixth fatality the city reported in this month. Last month, Delhi reported as many as seven Covid-19 deaths; in October, only four people had succumbed to the virus in the national capital.Saturday's single-day figures show that the national capital is maintaining its trend of rising Covid-19 cases. On Friday, the city logged 180 fresh infections, 62 more than Thursday.Also Read | Delhi and Mumbai witness spike in Covid cases as Omicron triggers alarmMeanwhile, what can be considered as a good sign is that higher number of patients are recovering from the infection. On Saturday, as many as 96 fresh recoveries were reported, up from Friday's 82 and Thursday's 57. The total number of patients who recovered from Covid-19 has reached 14,17,024.As far as vaccination is considered, a total of 2,54,48,583 people have been jabbed so far in Delhi, of which 114,311 received the doses in the last 24 hours, the health bulletin showed. On Friday, Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal took to Twitter to announce that the city has achieved 100% coverage of first dose of Covid-19 vaccine to its entire adult population.However, the spike in daily Covid-19 cases in Delhi comes at a time when the city is the second-most contributor of Omicron infections in India, behind Maharashtra. India has so far reported more than 400 Omicron cases, with Maharashtra accounting for 110 (after Saturday's fresh two cases) and Delhi for 79. During the day, Rajasthan and Kerala also reported fresh Omicron cases, following which their tally rose to 43 and 38, respectively.Kejriwal on Thursday urged the people of Delhi to stay at home amid the Omicron spread, highlighting that his government is “strengthening” the home isolation system. “Such patients will receive a medical kit from health authorities and they will undergo tele-counseling for 10 days,” he added.The chief minister further stated the Delhi government is prepared to handle nearly 1,00,000 Covid-19 cases in a single-day and that arrangements have been made along those lines.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-sees-biggest-jump-in-new-covid-cases-since-june-logs-249-infections-101640438405256.html
25-12-2021||Mumbai||Central Railway developing infrastructure, parking space for empty rakes in Juinagar||Considering the inevitable rise in train traffic in Navi Mumbai with the completion of Nerul-Uran corridor, the Central Railway (CR) is developing a new infrastructure near Juinagar railway station. This includes additional space for parking empty rakes and a new rail bridge.The train traffic in Navi Mumbai will increase to a great extent with the completion of the Nerul-Belapur-Uran railway corridor (phase II). More than 75% work in that corridor has been completed.According to the railway officials, four stabling sidings for parking the empty rakes at the Sanpada end of Juinagar station are developed to make additional parking space. That area was earlier occupied by slum dwellers. The CR, which owns the land, vacated them and started working on the sidings a few months ago.“For parking the empty rakes at nights and during noon (when the train frequency is low), we will need space. Hence, we are developing the stabling sidings in Juinagar,” a senior railway officer from Navi Mumbai said.Secondly, the CR is developing a new bridge above a nullah at the Nerul end of Juinagar station. They are also laying tracks from the site of that bridge to the stabling sidings. Shivaji Sutar, chief PRO of CR said, “We have a car-shed in Sanpada, where the routine maintenance of the rakes is conducted. We are developing the new bridge so that we can easily take our rakes from the stabling sidings in Juinagar to that car shed. We did not allocate a separate budget for this infrastructure. The stabling sidings and the bridge are being developed with our routine budget allocated for such projects.”Bhakti Dave, president of Panvel Pravashi Sangh, said, “We recently met the railway officers and requested them to extend the Panvel-Goregaon services up to Borivali. We also requested them to provide more trains on that line. The railway officials informed us that a new platform is being developed at Borivali station and as soon as that is ready, the services will be extended and increased. So, apart from the Nerul-Belapur-Uran corridor, the number of trains will increase on the harbour line too. The railway authorities have taken timely action by developing new infrastructure in Juinagar.”
25-12-2021||Lucknow||CM Yogi kickstarts campaign to distribute tablets, smartphones to 1 crore youth||Chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Saturday inaugurated the scheme for the distribution of tablets and smartphones to one crore students of the state. On the occasion of the former Prime Minister Atal Bihari Vajpayee’s birth anniversary, nearly 60,000 students pursuing higher education received the gadget.Amidst the cheer of several thousand elated youths, Yogi began distribution of tablets and smartphones in a mega event held at Bharat Ratna Shri Atal Bihari Vajpayee Ekana Cricket Stadium in the state capital. The CM announced that along with tablets and smartphones, the government is planning to provide free internet access and content for the students. To begin with, tablets are being provided to 60,000 youths. He resolved to take ‘Digital Revolution’ from village to village by organizing such programmes in other districts of the state so that students preparing for competitive examinations would also get the full benefit from it.On the occasion, the CM tried to inspire youth by citing examples of young Indian CEO’s who are leading top multinational companies across the globe such as Sundar Pichai, CEO of Google, Satya Nadella, CEO of Microsoft, Arvind Krishna, CEO of IBM, Shantanu Narayen, chairman and CEO of Adobe among others.Speaking at the event, the chief minister mentioned the achievements of youths and girls who made the state proud in every field- from sports to start-ups. Giving an example of Lord Krishna, he said that even Krishna was young when he liberated the people of Mathura from the tyranny of Kansa. Moreover, Lord Buddha or Adi Shankaracharya in their youth gave the message of nirvana to the world. Adi Shankaracharya lived only 32 years, he said.He also launched ‘Digi Shakti Portal’ and ‘Digi Shakti Adhyayan App’. The app is installed on all smartphones and tablets and all the information related to government welfare schemes as well as study material will be made available through this. Addressing the gathering, the CM said, “The importance of technology was closely witnessed during the pandemic. Children did not have the facility of online education and classes. That’s when we decided that we will connect one crore youth with technology and give out tablets and smartphones.”Training guns on the opposition and accusing them of promoting “Bhai-bhatijavad” (nepotism) in the state, the chief minister pointed that all the characters of ‘Mahabharat’- the chacha, Shakuni mama, Duryodhana bhanja, bhatija fanned out to do extortion in job recruitments during the previous government’s tenure. “But under the BJP rule all the job processes were transparent and the present government gave 4.5 lakh jobs to youths in 4.5 years of its tenure,” he said. Without naming any SP leaders, he took potshot on dig saying those who opposed vaccines are ‘tired’ and ‘retired’. He also accused them of nurturing the mafia and creating an environment of fear in society stating that bulldozers are razing down the properties of mafiosos and their henchmen in UP now. Our government emphasizes ‘Soch Imaandar, Kaam Damdaar’,” he added.Taking a dig at the SP chief, the CM said, “It is to be remembered that during the Covid-19 pandemic, some people created a crisis of life by spreading rumours against the vaccine. Those who wake up at noon are not youths; rather they are tired and retired.” Sending across a note of warning to all those who tend to vitiate the transparent recruitment process, the CM asserted that “If someone is trying to play with the life of youth, then he should be aware of the consequence. They will be sent to jails.”Remembering the legendary leader AB Vajpayee, CM Yogi said that Atalji is an inspiration for all. “He always believed ‘Siddhantviheen rajneeti maut ka fanda hoti hai’, the person who lives a life full of principle and for the welfare of other people, only his life is meaningful.”Yogi gave gadgets to some students from the stage. He congratulated Sagar Upmanyu, a visually impaired student pursuing MA in political science at Dr Shakuntala Misra National Rehab University, Lucknow for his confidence and consistency to move forward.On this occasion, Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath honoured Mirabai Chanu, a weight lifter who brought laurels in the Olympic Games played in 2021. Union minister of education and minister of skill development and entrepreneurship, Dharmendra Pradhan was also present on this occasion.
25-12-2021||Lucknow||Bateshwar to be developed to keep Atal’s memories alive: Yogi||Agra Chief minister Yogi Aditya Nath paid tributes to former Prime Minister late Atal Bihari Vajpayee in his paternal village Bateshwar, on his birth anniversary on Saturday. Yogi also inaugurated and laid foundation stones for projects worth ₹230 crore for Bateshwar and assured that all efforts would be made to develop Bateshwar to keep Atal’s memories alive.. To note, Atal’s birth anniversary was observed as ‘Sushashan Diwas’ (Good Governance Day) all over the nation. Yogi viewed the photo gallery on the life of Atal Bihari Vajpayee and addressed the gathering at a ground in Bateshwar. “Former Prime Minister late Atal Bihari Vajpayee had a great personality and had such a good reputation that even his opponents could not criticize him. He was an open-hearted person who said that one needed to think big if one intended to do big. In his political career spreading over six decades, there was not a single blame on his personality,” said the chief minister. “Atalji inspired us all and paved the way for various schemes in favour of the poor and needy. He gave different schemes for developing road network and free ration for the poor and always stood in favour of the last man in the chain of development. All through his life, he stood for ethics and principles,” said Yogi. The CM targeted the Samajwadi Party leadership, without taking names, and blamed them for ‘loot’ while in power in the state. “They had been out of power for the past five years, yet ₹200 crores are being unearthed from their houses in income tax raids. Where did this money come from? It seems to be that which was looted and stored when they were in power in the state,” alleged Yogi. “Money meant for poor was wasted on subjects like kabristan (graveyard) in previous regime. Those not even knowing Urdu were appointed as Urdu translators and posts were created for them but nothing was done for students and teachers of Sanskrit. It was during BJP regime that Sanskrit schools were taken care of,” claimed the CM. “The previous regimes in Uttar Pradesh committed a crime by denying the benefits due to the poor. The cash now being unearthed from opposition party leaders and supporters was meant for the poor but was misappropriated. The BJP has given due share to the poor through various schemes like PM Awas Yojna,” he said. “Our government is now giving tablets and smart phones to youth in Uttar Pradesh. There are various schemes in the name of Atal Bihari Vajpayee. Medical colleges, residential schools and intermediate schools are coming up in his name,” said the chief minister, promising that a museum, a ‘sanskritik sankul (cultural complex) and park in name of Atal Bihari Vajpayee would soon come up in Bateshwar. Also present on the occasion were cabinet minister Mahendra Singh, former minister Aridaman Singh, MP from Fatehpur Sikri Rajkumar Chahar and MLA from Bah Rani Pakshalika Singh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/bateshwar-to-be-developed-to-keep-atal-s-memories-alive-yogi-101640442026302.html
25-12-2021||Mumbai||Customs seize red sandalwood worth ₹15 crore at Mumbai’s Nhava Sheva||The Customs department on Friday intercepted a container at Nhava Sheva and on searching it found red sandalwood worth ₹15 crore which was being illegally exported to the United Arab Emirates. Preliminary investigation revealed that credentials of a genuine exporting company were misused, a customs officer said, adding that the probe is on to nab the culprit involved in the smuggling. The special intelligence and investigation branch (export) of the Customs department had received a specific input about smuggling of red sanders and following the tip-off, Customs officers intercepted a container inside the GTI Terminal of JNPT before it left the country. The container, destined for UAE with declared goods as “empty glass bottles 90ML”, was examined and found to be stuffed with red sandalwood, weighing about 15,020 kilograms, worth about ₹15 crore in the grey market , the Customs official said. “A case has been registered under the Customs Act and we have started recording statements of the people connected with the case,” said the officer, refusing to divulge further details about the exporter or the people involved in the smuggling. Another Customs officer, however, revealed that the exporter is a Mumbai-based firm and it appears that the smuggler was trying to misuse the genuine documents of the company to run his smuggling racket, but did not succeed in the endeavour. The second officer said they are also trying to ascertain if the gang has sent any other consignments to the UAE or some other foreign destinations and if some regular gang of smugglers was involved.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/customs-seize-red-sandalwood-worth-rs-15-crore-at-mumbai-s-nhava-sheva-101640440346204.html
25-12-2021||Pune||Comprehensive probe will be held in TET exam manipulation: Ajit Pawar||PUNE Deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar on Saturday said a comprehensive probe should be held in the corruption pertaining to the Teacher’s eligibility test (TET) exam in which suspended Maharashtra State Council of Examination (MSCE) commissioner Tukaram Supe and ex-commissioner Sukhdev Dere among others were arrested.Pawar was speaking after the inauguration of the county’s first faculty training centre in Pune city when higher education minister Uday Samant and environment minister Aaditya Thackeray were also present.Pawar said, “It is the state government’s responsibility to create infrastructure and institutes. Ultimately the staff working here need to bring glory to the institute. But recent incidents of corruption are defaming the department. Recently, police arrested some officers and cash received from his residence. the state government would ensure that the action would be taken against all.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/comprehensive-probe-will-be-held-in-tet-exam-manipulation-ajit-pawar-101640440047260.html
25-12-2021||Mumbai||Red sanders worth ₹15 crore seized by Customs||Mumbai: The Customs officials on Friday seized a consignment containing red sanders (red sandalwood) weighing 15,020 kg worth ₹15 crore in the illicit market at the Nhava Sheva port. The investigation revealed that credentials of a genuine exporting company were misused to smuggle red sanders to the United Arab Emirates (UAE), said a customs officer, adding that their probe is on to nab the perpetrators. The special intelligence and investigation branch (export) of the Customs department had received a specific input about the smuggling of red sanders and following the intelligence, Customs officers intercepted a container inside the GTI Terminal of JNPT before leaving the country. The container, destined for UAE with declared goods as “empty glass bottles 90ML”, was examined and found to be stuffed with red sanders, said the Customs official. “A case has been registered under the Customs Act and we have started recording statements of the people connected to the case,” said the officer, refusing to divulge further details about the exporter or the people involved in the smuggling. Another Customs officer, however, revealed that the exporter is from a Mumbai firm and it appears that the smuggler was trying to misuse genuine documents of the company to run his smuggling racket, but did not succeed in the endeavour. The second officer said they are also trying to ascertain if the gang has sent any other consignments to the United Arab Emirates or some other foreign destinations and if some regular gang of smugglers was involved.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/red-sanders-worth-15-crore-seized-by-customs-101640440046083.html
25-12-2021||Delhi||Water supply in many parts of Delhi to be affected on Monday. Details here||The Delhi Jal Board (DJB) on Saturday released a list of the areas in the national capital where water supply will be affected on Monday (December 27). The supply will be hit due to the annual flushing of underground reservoirs and pumping stations.The DJB released a press note on Twitter, informing people about reduced supply and advised them to stock sufficient quantity of water.Press Note ! pic.twitter.com/0x4zyEmlBFThe areas where water supply will be affected are: LIG DDA flats in Kalkaji, Panchsheel Enclave, Mayur Vihar Phase II, Akbar Road, Sarojini Nagar, Ashoka Hotel, Shanti Path, Safdarjung, Race Course, Sujan Singh Park and Parliament Library premises, according to DJB release.It, however, said that water tankers will be available. The DJB also shared phone numbers to call water tankers: 1916, 1800117118 (Central control room), 26473720/26449877 (Giri Nagar), 29234746/29234747 (Greater Kailash), 22727812 (Mandawli) and 22374834/22374237 (Jagriti).Earlier this month, Delhi water minister Satyendar Jain said that the DJB will install 70 more modern extraction wells to augment the water supply in the city.Jain said that the government has already constructed 30 “modern extraction wells” which can provide 6-8 times more water than ordinary wells.Jain’s remarks were made in connection with the shortfall in water supply being faced by several areas in Delhi. The shortfall amounts to over 300MGD in estimated daily demand and supply.The DJB operates nine water treatment plants at Wazirabad, Chandrawal, Haiderpur, Sonia Vihar, Bhagirathi WTP, Okhla, Nangloi, Dwarka and Bawana to supply 935 MGD potable water every day.A decadal analysis carried out by Central Ground Water Board showed that large parts of the national capital saw a drop in the groundwater levels by four metres or more between 2005 and 2014.Some separate studies showed that Delhi is losing groundwater level at an average of 0.2 metres every year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/water-supply-in-many-parts-of-delhi-to-be-affected-on-monday-details-here-101640438858095.html
25-12-2021||Mumbai||ED detaches Nirav Modi’s assets over ₹1000 crore, Rhythm House in auction list||Mumbai: The Enforcement Directorate (ED) has detached assets worth ₹1000 crore belonging to diamantaire Nirav Modi – prime accused in the massive fraud at Punjab National Bank (PNB), including the iconic Rhythm House at Kala Ghoda in south Mumbai, four flats in Worli and an office building in Kurla. A senior ED officer said that a liquidator appointed by the National Company Law Tribunal will conduct the liquidation process of the properties . The seized properties will be auctioned to recover the amount payable by Modi’s firms to the PNB, the officer added. Nirav Modi and his wife Ami, who is an American citizen, fled the country in the first week of January 2018, shortly before the massive fraud at the public sector bank came to light. On January 31, 2018, the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) registered an offence under various sections of the Prevention of Corruption Act (POC) and the relevant provisions of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) against Modi and several others, including two officers of the PNB. According to the complaint lodged by the PNB, between February and May 2017, Nirav Modi and his firms namely, M/s Diamond R US, M/s Solar Exports and M/s Stellar Diamond got fraudulently issued 150 Letters of Undertaking (LOUs) from Brady House branch of PNB and duped the public sector bank to the tune of USD 1015.35 million, equivalent to ₹6498.20 crore, resulting in loss of ₹6,805 crore to the public sector bank. Similarly, Modi’s maternal uncle Mehul Choksi, another prime accused in the case, has allegedly duped PNB of ₹7,080.86 crore. Choksi’s Gitanjali group has also defaulted on payment of dues to the tune of ₹5,099.74 crore to several other banks in India. Modi is currently lodged in a jail at Wandsworth Prison in South-west London ever since he was arrested by the British police in March 2019 on charges of extradition warrants issued against him, whereas Choksi is reportedly acquired citizenship of Antigua and is presently residing in the Caribbean island nation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/ed-detaches-nirav-modi-s-assets-over-1000-crore-rhythm-house-in-auction-list-101640437405786.html
25-12-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra utilised only 20% of NCAP funds||Mumbai As of November 2021, Maharashtra has spent just about 20% of the funds it has received under the Centre’s National Clean Air Program (NCAP). A total of ₹11.27 crore has been spent so far across 17 non-attainment cities, leaving an unspent balance of ₹39.98 crore, according to data available with the Maharashtra Pollution Control Board (MPCB). The majority of the funds have been spent in Mumbai, Navi Mumbai, Pune and Nagpur, while in two cities (Akola and Amravati), zero funds have been spent.Dr VM Motghare, joint director (air quality), MPCB, could not be reached for comment on Saturday. However, Motghare had presented these numbers at an MPCB review meeting on November 23, a recording of which is available online. “Maharashtra is lacking in fund utilisation of the NCAP program,” Motghare had said. A sub-regional officer with the MPCB, who did not wish to be named, explained that the unspent balance is currently lying with ULBS, and that they are expected to be used to bolster city-level action plans against air pollution, with a focus on measures like dust mitigation, traffic regulation, waste management and so on. NCAP does not have a legal mandate but aims to achieve a 20% to 30% reduction in PM 2.5 (respirable pollution particles) concentrations over 2017 levels in over 100 cities by 2024.“The ULBs have been slow to utilise the funds. Covid has been a major hurdle, and most municipal councils and corporations have focused their attention on dealing with the pandemic. But yes, there is also an issue of lack of expertise and technical knowledge on the part of the ULBs, which slows things down. As far as possible, when dealing with contractors and vendors, we have to follow Make in India guidelines and work with Indian companies, so it can take longer to outsource the work,” said the MPCB official cited above. “We will aim to use all the funds before the financial year ends,” they added.This issue isn’t just restricted to Maharashtra, according to data released by the environment ministry during the first meeting of the NCAP’s National Apex Committee on December 17. A total of ₹375.44 crore was provided under NCAP to 114 cities from 2018-19 to 2020-21, and ₹290 crores were allocated to 82 cities for 2021-22. The Centre will be providing a further ₹700 crores for the 2021-26 period.Although utilisation of the ₹375.44 crore given in the past two years has been low by most states, according to the data, with 22 states under NCAP collectively utilising only 33.53% of the amount. Bihar and Chandigarh utilised 77% and 82% respectively of the fund, but Punjab and Uttar Pradesh utilised only 17%, Chhattisgarh 21%, Andhra Pradesh 10%, Assam 4%, Himachal Pradesh 2%, and Jammu & Kashmir 1%. The utilisation by Uttarakhand and West Bengal was 53% and 58% respectively. Maharashtra has also been allotted a total of ₹2,981 crore, at the recommendation of the 15th FC, specifically to address air pollution in the state. The funds are to be utilised by the end of the financial year 2026. Of the ₹2,773 crore which the state government plans to spend by the end of FY2025, 80% (or ₹2,218 crore) is proposed to be spent on the EV Policy, primarily on electrifying bus fleets in major urban clusters. The balance of ₹555 crore will be spent on local interventions, such as increasing Maharashtra’s air quality monitoring network (3%), implementing dust control measures (8%), and regulating construction (4%), industries (2% ), bakeries and crematoria (3%).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-utilised-only-20-of-ncap-funds-101640436445763.html
25-12-2021||Other||After 86 yrs, speed train trial raises hopes of reconnecting people of Kosi and Kamla||On January 15, 1934, an earthquake of 8.0 magnitude devastated North Bihar and Nepal with over 10,000 people killed. Train services joining regions along the Kosi and Kamla rivers were totally snapped. After 86 years, the people living along Kosi and Kamla will be able to get connected again after train services resume next year.On Friday, railways conducted a speed trial between Asanpur Kupha and Nirmali of Samastipur railway division under East Central Railways (ECR) paving the way for the restoration of train services on this route after over eight decades. The broad gauge conversion of tracks between Asanpur Kupha and Nirmali has been completed.During the last month, top railway officials have been taking stock of the tracks and finally on Friday a speed trial was conducted successfully.“The trial was successful and we hope very soon train services will be restored on the track,” Samastipur divisional railway manager (DRM) Alok Agrawal, who was present on the occasion, said.Principal security commissioner eastern zone AM Choudhary and several other top railway officials were also present on the occasion.On June 6, 2003, the then Prime Minister Atal Bihari Vajpayee laid the foundation stone of Mahasetu over Kosi river which paved the way for linking the two peoples. The Mahasetu has already connected Mithilanchal and Kosi and now rail connectivity is expected to be restored by the next year. Train services on the route started in 1887 and the 1934 earthquake damaged it completely.Meanwhile, the speed trial on the tracks has come like a dream come true for thousands of people who have been waiting for it for a long time. “We had become almost hopeless but our hope has once been revived and now we are waiting for the regular train services on the track connecting us to Mithilanchal,’’ a local, Gautam Kumar said.On the other hand, businessman Mahendra Jain who was also present on the occasion said, “The restoration of train services will give a boost to trade and commerce between two regions which remained disconnected for a long time.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/after-86-yrs-speed-train-trial-raises-hopes-of-reconnecting-people-of-kosi-and-kamla-101640434527340.html
25-12-2021||Patna||Uttar Pradesh assembly polls: JD(U) claims to have forged alliance with BJP||The Janata Dal (United) has claimed to have allied with its partner in Bihar, the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), for the Uttar Pradesh assembly polls next year. Confirming the alliance, JD(U) national president and Munger MP Rajiv Ranjan Singh alias Lalan Singh said that the BJP is ready to ally with JD(U) in Uttar Pradesh. “In UP, the BJP has agreed to contest the elections with JD(U). Information to this effect was given by Union minister RCP Singh who has been authorized by the party to hold parleys with the BJP. We have given the list related to the Uttar Pradesh assembly elections to the BJP state (UP) leadership,” said Singh, while talking to media. However, JD(U) national president Singh declined to comment on the number of seats the party is staking a claim on as well the list of how many seats has been submitted to the BJP. Party leaders familiar with the developments said that the JD(U) has demanded most of the seats around Bihar from the BJP. “RCP Singh will hold further talks with the BJP regarding the agreement on seats,” said the party president. The party national executive held recently passed a resolution in New Delhi and expressed its willingness to contest UP assembly polls in alliance with BJP provided it gets a respectable number of seats else it would contest independently on no less than 200 seats. If party leaders are to be believed, JD(U) wants to contest 100 seats but given its performance in the 2012 UP assembly polls, “it would rest satisfied if it gets around 20 seats.” HAM-S and VIP mull tie-up A meeting between Hindustani Awam Morcha (HAM-S) national president and former CM Jitan Ram Manjhi and Vikassheel Insaan Party (VIP) president and Bihar minister in Patna on Friday evening, lasting over an hour, set the sparks flying in the political circles. The meeting between two NDA alliance partners, who have four MLAs each in Bihar assembly, holds importance as both the parties announced to contest UP assembly polls. “The meeting discussed on a possible tie-up between the two parties for UP polls and discussions were also held on the working of Bihar government, formation of different boards, committees, etc., as well transfer and posting of officers,” said HAM-S spokesperson Danish Rizwan. People familiar with the matter said that Sahni and Manjhi discussed the legislative council elections as well. Both the parties have one representation in the Nitish Kumar-led NDA ministry. NDA leaders said that both the parties want to pressurize the BJP for seats in UP. VIP leader Mukesh Sahni made it clear that BJP can ally in UP, otherwise, his party would contest elections alone from there. 
25-12-2021||Lucknow||Foundation stone of civil works laid for 857 parks in Lucknow||UP urban development minister Ashutosh Tandon laid the foundation stone of civil and beautification works for 857 parks in the state capital, on the eve of the birth anniversary of former prime minister Atal Behari Vajpayee, on Friday. According to officials, Lucknow Municipal Corporation (LMC) has received a fund of Rs.15.56 crore for development of 325 semi-developed parks while ₹19.01 crore has been sanctioned for development of 706 undeveloped parks under the 15th Finance Commission. Apart from this, 154 parks of Lucknow Development Authority (LDA) have been allotted ₹9.52 crore for beautification works. These parks would have good boundary walls, railings, fountains, park lights, pavements, walking tracks, open gyms etc from the funds allotted by the government, they said. Tandon said, “The state government is leaving no stone unturned to make Lucknow one of the best cities of the world. During the last four years, the ranking of Lucknow in the city Sanitation Index has improved from 269 to 12th position, but efforts are on to bring city to the first place.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/foundation-stone-of-civil-works-laid-for-857-parks-in-lucknow-101640432245473.html
25-12-2021||Lucknow||Bundelkhand “Jal Sahelis” release ‘public manifesto’ for 2022 UP polls||“Jal Sahelis” (friends of water)—a group of women working for water conservation and revival of ponds in Bundelkhand region of Uttar Pradesh—have called upon the political parties to include water conservation, revival of water bodies, demarcation of water structures, allotment of land and houses to the landless besides proper implementation of MNREGA scheme in their manifestos for 2022 UP assembly polls.They handed over the copies of their “public manifesto” to BJP state unit president Swatantra Dev Singh; UP Congress unit president Ajay Kumar Lallu and leaders of the Samajwadi Party in a programme organised here on Friday. Addressing a press conference on the occasion, state coordinator, “Jal Jan Jodo Abhiyan”, Shivani Singh said, “The geographical location of Bundelkhand region is different in Uttar Pradesh. Spread in the hilly terrain, the region is drought-prone. A few years back, the area was in the grip of drought for a decade and people had to migrate in search of livelihood and water. The 1.3 crore people residing in the region depend on agriculture for livelihood. Around 40%-50% of the population regularly migrate to cities and other states in search of petty jobs.” “With the release of the public manifesto, the ‘Jal Sahelis’ wish to draw the attention of political parties towards the issues and problems faced by the people residing in the seven districts of Bundelkhand region- Jhansi, Lalitpur, Jalaun, Hamirpur, Mahoba, Banda and Chitrakoot. The political parties should address the issue and include the demands of the people in their election manifesto for the 2022 UP assembly election,” she said.National convener, “Jal Jan Jodo Abhiyan”, Sanjay Singh said, “Along with water conservation, the issues of unemployment, environment, tourism, art and culture have been included in the public manifesto. The people of Bundelkhand region have demanded formation of a Pond Conservation Authority to deal with water crisis and protection of water bodies. Each person should get 55 litre pure drinking water per month. Also, participation of the voluntary organisations in MNREGA should be encouraged. The state government should appoint a retired judge for hearing the cases associated with the MREGA and women should also get farming and land ownership rights.” Meera, a “Jal Saheli” and a resident of Jhansi district said, “Before election, political parties make promises to the people of Bundelkhand region to redress their grievances but after polls they dump the issues. The political parties should include water, environment, forest protection, agriculture, drought and employment issues in their election manifesto.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/bundelkhand-jal-sahelis-release-public-manifesto-for-2022-up-polls-101640431885735.html
25-12-2021||Dehradun||‘Some course corrections needed to win U’khand polls’: Cong leader Harish Rawat||A day senior Congress leader Harish Rawat’s position as the face of the Congress in Uttarakhand ahead of polls in the hill state was reiterated, the former chief minister on Saturday said that some “course corrections” are needed to win elections.“...Some course correction is important to win upcoming elections...sometimes expressing pain is also beneficial for the party...,” Rawat told news agency ANI.Rawat’s statement comes a day after meeting with Congress leader Rahul Gandhi following his public outburst. The senior politician on Wednesday posted a series of cryptic tweets, with the developments being deciphered in political circles as his ‘unhappiness’ with the grand old party. His tweets came nearly two months after he was replaced as the Congress’ in-charge for Punjab by Harish Chaudhary.“One thing we all should understand is that the AICC (All India Congress Committee) is the boss, just like the BCCI (Board of Control for Cricket in India). The election in-charges are like a coach. But the playing captain, too, is important. So, there should be a relation of confidence and understanding among the three,” the former Uttarakhand chief minister said.If you play for the cross-purpose, then the match will be lost, the veteran party leader further said. “Therefore, whatever I said was so that we would win the match. If I would have said it normally, then people would have accused me of political adjustments. So, expressing pain often benefits the party, and I think it will benefit the party,” Rawat elaborated.When asked about his meeting with Gandhi, he said that it has been made clear that everyone has to work together.“I will lead as the campaign committee chairman and everyone will support me,” he said. He added that he was asked to ensure that the members of the party should not be seen working in different directions.In other words, he said, the elections in Uttarakhand will be fought under him. However, the party stopped short of announcing him the party’s chief ministerial candidate.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/dehradun-news/some-course-corrections-needed-to-win-u-khand-polls-cong-leader-harish-rawat-101640431826954.html
25-12-2021||Patna||Bihar CM calls on women to carry forward social reforms agenda, resurrect image||Chief minister Nitish Kumar’s ongoing ‘Samaj Sudhar Yatra’ has brought forward a striking aspect - his trust in the caste-neutral women constituency, which he has nurtured since the very beginning, to take his messages across.All through his yatra, which will continue till January 15 and crisis-cross the state, Kumar has been focusing on the women as the harbinger of change in the state and experts feel that at a time when he has been politically cornered after the 2020 Assembly elections as the third-rank party in the state, he banks on them to script his resurrection.“We started Jeevika group from just 50 blocks at the beginning with a small initiative but big vision. Today, it is a big movement with over 10.5-lakh self-help groups and contributing to the state’s growth and social transformation. Mothers hold the key to a stable and sustainable society. Never let child marriage and dowry crush women. My government has taken a number of initiatives to make them self-reliant in every way,” he said on the first day of his yatra in Motihari and has continued with the same tenor since then, linking it with social evils like child marriage, dowry and liquor consumption.Bihar has the highest number of Jeevika groups in the country involving 1.27-crore women through a World Bank-supported poverty alleviation programme operational in the state since 2007. In fact, Kumar started working on it soon after he became the CM in 2005 to empower women through their financial inclusion by awarding them different kinds of work from the government.“With the inclusion of over 50% women in the panchayati raj institutions and schools as teachers, the government hopes to make Jeevika the nucleus of rural development, and involve the SHGs in a whole range of activities, viz animal husbandry, agriculture-related activities, supervision work related to health and environment, tailoring, mask making, banking and running small enterprises among other things. The government has also decided to settle ponds in the name of Jeevika SHGs for maintenance and fishery.“The objective is to make them the engines of rural economy and the CM has full faith in their potential for the way they have responded to every challenge and delivered to transform the rural landscape. The CM feels that only women could sustain the rapid progress the state has made over the last 15-16 years by ushering in much-needed social reforms to take it forward. Therefore, women hold the centre stage in his plan for action,” said water resources minister Sanjay Kumar Jha.When Kumar took the daring decision of introducing liquor prohibition in the state in 2016, he attributed it to the call of women. Now that he is facing opposition from all sides in prohibition, he has now looked towards women to make it their cause, reminding them in all his speeches how women experienced empowerment during the last decade and why it was important.Social analyst professor NK Choudhary said that Nitish Kumar was aware of how time was running out for him and so he was trying to appear different from the political crowd around him by doubling up as a social reformist politician who looks beyond the social and economic transformation of a state with a permanent ‘laggard’ tag.“He did his bit well, but Bihar needs a lot more catching up. He wants history to remember him as a different politician and refurbish his social image, which has taken a beating of late. The political undercurrent is always there, but more important is the urge to be remembered as a man with a difference. The use of religion in politics is known, but not many politicians take up social issues for politics. The growing empowerment of women was apparent even during elections when they outnumbered men, but that did not help him politically,” said Choudhary.Former director of AN Sinha Institute of Social Studies, DM Diwakar, said, Kumar’s focus on the women constituency would not help him politically as it would not be able to hide apparent governance deficit in recent years and impact of burning issues like rising prices and growing unemployment.“The fact is that a woman is affected more by the LPG cylinder costing ₹1000 and the difficulty in running a household. Rhetoric politics is reaching saturation stage now. People want governance reflected through a strong delivery mechanism, check on corruption and inclusive growth. Social reforms are best left to social reformers. For Nitish Kumar, governance has been his USP all through and that is what people expect from him,” said Diwakar, adding that he got a taste of policing when his Scorpio was stolen from Bhagalpur on November 29 and despite CCTV footage there was no trace of it.
25-12-2021||Pune||Bits’n’bytes: Know about business events in Pune||Mashelkar bats for Science-led high-tech unicorns Scientist Dr Raghunath Mashelkar, while speaking at the Venture Centre’s 15th anniversary celebrations, said that India needs to focus on Science-led high-tech unicorns, further adding that startups will need ‘adventure capital’ in order to reach there. Council of Scientific and Industrial Research’s (CSIR) first and largest incubator, NCL Venture Centre, celebrated a major milestone of its 15th anniversary. The virtual event was presided by Dr V Premnath, director, Venture Center; Dr Shekhar Mande, DG-CSIR; Dr S Chandrashekhar, Secretary Department of Science and Technology, Scientist Dr Raghunath Mashelkar, Prof Anil Gupta, and current and past Directors of CSIR-NCL – Dr AK Lele, Dr AK Nangia, Dr K Vijayamohanan, Dr S Pal and Dr S Sivaram. Dr Mande talked about the importance of entrepreneurship in helping India’s youth contribute positively to India’s growth story, while creating tens of millions of jobs over the next decade. Dr Ashish Lele, Director, NCL spoke of the plans to double the capacity of Venture Centre to serve startups two folds within the next three years. He announced plans to build a new building to house many more startups. With that the NCL Innovation Park will be able to serve more than 150 residents startups. Intangles enables 75 per cent reduction in breakdown events Predictive analytics solutions provider for mobility industry, Intangles Lab recorded a 200 per cent upsurge in deployments across heavy commercial vehicles and off-highway equipment. The company said it has clocked 170 per cent growth in revenue over the same period last year. With many markets opening and emerging from the post-pandemic slump, Pune-based Intangles is projecting an impressive revenue growth of 200 per cent by the end of FY’22. Anup Patil, CEO at Intangles Lab said, “Intangles is on the brink of heralding a new chapter of innovation in vehicle performance and safety across India and the world. As Digital Twin pioneers, the spectacular growth that we have achieved hardly comes as a surprise. While we are consolidating our position in the Indian mobility ecosystem, the outlook is very positive for new opportunities in North America, Europe, Australia and APAC. Our impressive growth and expansion story is merely a testament to the game-changing potential of Predictive Analytics enabled by the Digital Twin technology. In FY’23, we shall continue our endeavours of redefining performance benchmarks in mobility and transportation.” Pune-based Cranberry Analytics announces collaboration with ConsultValiant UAE Cranberry Analytics announced a strategic collaboration with ConsultValiant UAE to improve water budgeting, demand and recovery management in the region. The partnership will focus on synergizing their expertise to manage the growing water stress in the region by using Cranberry’s flagship water management and predictive analytics tool – Recon. Headquartered in Pune, Cranberry Analytics has worked extensively with Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation and helps save approximately 31 billion litres of water annually, while measuring 95,000 million litres per day. Cranberry Analytics and the local municipal corporations’ efforts demonstrate that the biggest impetus can come from smart metering of cities, implementation of IoT devices and sensors in water distribution and management. Shishir Thakur, co-founder and director, Cranberry Analytics shared, “The UAE is home to 6 per cent of the world’s population and has access to just 1 per cent of world’s fresh-water resources. The region is in urgent need of analytics-driven insights to take critical action and narrow the gap between water demand and supply. In collaborating with ConsultValiant, we are looking forward to bringing our rich experience and learnings to the Middle-East region of the world and taking our water management stewardship globally.” The partnership was initiated at the ongoing Dubai World Expo 2021 where Cranberry Analytics was displaying their adaptive AI powered technology solution – Recon, for water consumption, distribution, measurement, and management. AWS supporting Pune startups to succeed through cost optimization solutions Amazon Web Services (AWS) is helping startups to manage their cloud costs and the benefit of these strategies for startups in Pune. The online event organised on Thursday (December 23) was chaired by Kumara Raghavan, head, AWS Start-ups India, Amazon Internet Services. Mandar Nilange, head of product and technology, Fittr, and Anil Sinha, chief technology officer, EarlySalary participated in the session. Raghavan said, “Pune is the next global startup destination city of India and is making its mark in the Indian startup ecosystem. Through a host of AWS cost optimisation solutions, we enable startups to reduce their technology spends and build a robust, cost-optimised cloud architecture early on, so they are ready as they scale their business and maximise their funding resources in the early days. We are excited to collaborate with the startups in Pune and expect to expand our network further to fuel innovation in the city.” BYST and HDFC Bank partner to launch Nurturing Grampreneurs BYST (Bharatiya Yuva Shakti Trust) and HDFC Bank launched their partnership to promote youth entrepreneurs from rural areas of Maharashtra. BYST has reached out to more than 3 lakh youth in 3 districts – Pune, Aurangabad and Wardha. The programme has created over 3,120 entrepreneurs who have generated 1.50 lakh jobs. BYST has now expanded its work to three more districts – Kolhapur, Satara and Sangli and aim to create 500 more entrepreneurs in the next three years. Subodh Bhargava, chairman, BYST said, “BYST initiative brings together renowned mentors with vast experience. Apart from imparting skills and funds to start an enterprise, a lot more focus is required to be placed on guidance, and handholding by experts is critical to create great entrepreneurs and successful enterprises.” Lakshmi V. Venkatesan, founding and managing trustee, BYST added, “Entrepreneurship and education have no direct correlation. You must have business literacy and acumen, not necessarily a college degree. In the next five years, we aim to create 10,000 mentors, that is 300 each per district. These mentors will be trained to support 30,000 entrepreneurs, who in turn are expected to create 16 lakh jobs in Maharashtra.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/bitsnbytes-know-about-business-events-in-pune-101640430445308.html
25-12-2021||Pune||Startup Mantra: Robust rise of new successful firms||2021 has proved to a turning point for the Pune startup ecosystem. For starts, as per the Department for Promotion of Industry and Internal Trade (DPIIT), the number of startups in Pune is now 3,200 which is almost equal to the 3,274 registered in India’s financial capital - Mumbai. Pune has seen emergence of three new unicorns – including two which started out from Pune, but now moved to either Bengaluru or Mumbai – taking its total tally to six. Also, the existing unicorn companies doubled or tripled their valuations. Startups in Pune were also on the radar of venture capital firms and this year Pune startups received a total investment of about USD 538 million – of which USD 213 million were raised by the newly minted unicorns. Financial services, agriculture, health and software-as-a-service (SaaS) startups dominated the funding space this year followed by some action in education, logistics, electric vehicles, food, robotics and biotechnology sector. On the infrastructure side, even though the city is still in want of an international airport and expansion of metro routes, real-estate sector has seen an uptick with maximum number of small-ticket-size commercial spaces projects designed for startups and information technology (IT) companies launched in the last one year. The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) has also formed an EV cell to address the roadblocks on infrastructure as well as charging infrastructure. Della Leaders Club (DLC), a global community of entrepreneurs, young leaders and professionals launched its Pune chapter to come up with a support system for budding bigwigs. College of Engineering Pune’s (COEP) Bhau Institute of Innovation, Entrepreneurship and Leadership has been selected under the Startup India Seed Fund Scheme (SISFS). Six unicorns The year started with Pune-based insurance technology startup ‘Digit Insurance’ turning unicorn in January month itself after raising funding of USD 18.5 million. This trend continued with SaaS company Mindtickle and cloud-kitchen startup Rebel Foods bagged the unicorn tag in August and October respectively with funding rounds of USD 100 million and USD 14.5 million respectively. Another interesting turn of events was that two Pune-based companies – Noccarc and E-Spin Nanotech – helped IIT Kanpur’s Technology Business Incubator ‘Startup Incubation and Innovation Centre (SIIC)’ to cross the crucial milestone of incubating 100 startups which at a combined valuation stand at a valuation of more than USD 1 billion. SaaS-based contract management company ‘Icertis’ tripled its valuation at USD 2.8 billion early in March 2021 with a fund raiser of USD 80 million. Another unicorn, cloud data protection and management company ‘Druva’, founded in Pune and turned unicorn in 2019, raised USD 147 million in April 2021 which raised the company’s valuation above USD 2 billion. Druva also announced it has surpassed seven million daily backups with 169PB of data under management. Prime startup Epicenter Vivek Sadhale, co-founder, LegaLogic Consulting says, “2021 started with a bit of uncertainty. As things started to look up, second wave of coronavirus pandemic played a big dampener. However, second half of 2021 has been absolutely rocking. Pune witnessed a flurry of activity both in the M&A and investment side. It was great to see a Pune company Go-digit start the year of unicorns. Technology sector is red hot. Fintech, Agritech, InsureTech, EdTech all have received attention from investors. Services companies have seen M&A. Manufacturing sector has not participated in this run as much as technology sector has. Pune has become a hub for product companies. SPPU’s innovation cell, Venture Centre, Mahratta Chamber of Commerce, Industries and Agriculture (MCCIA), National Association of Software and Service Companies (NASSCOM), The Indus Entrepreneurs (TiE), Bhau Institute, Software Exporters’ Association of Pune (SEAP), and many more industry bodies have created a vibrant ecosystem. During the pandemic this ecosystem worked as a catalyst. This ecosystem is one of the important pillars for Pune to see a vibrant 2021.” Coming of Age If we analyse the funding statistics available in public domain, Pune-based agritech startups have raised USD 78 million, fintech startups USD 73.6 million, health startups USD 32 million, SaaS startups USD 12.15 million and edtech startups about USD 7.22 million in funding in 2021. Vinit Deo and Prajakta Shetye-Deo of Posiview Ventures shared, “Pune’s ecosystem also has come of age in terms of size of funding with a few large ticket size deals such as Firstcry (USD 300 million), Elasticrun (USD 75 million) and Agrostar (USD 70 million) taking place during the year. While ecommerce and infotech sectors, led the pack in terms of number of investments, others sectors such as food and beverages, agriculture, artificial intelligence, edtech and fintech saw a few transactions.” “Pune’s startups received the fourth highest funding after Delhi NCR, Bengaluru and Mumbai as per a report by PricewaterhouseCoopers (PWC). Interestingly, Pune’s startups received almost 4x funding of almost USD 845 million in the first three quarters of this year versus USD 189 million in the same period last year - highest year-on-year growth in funding across cities. It is also important to note that this funding went to startups in a wide range of areas and not just technology. Pune has a thriving incubation culture with non-profit organisations such as TIE, Savitribai Phule Pune University Center of Innovation Incubation & Enterprise, Bhau Institute’s Incubation Center, Venture Center and a host of institutions as well as Atal Innovation Centres taking the culture of entrepreneurships to the grassroots level starting from colleges.” Vinit Deo and Prajakta Shetye-Deo of Posiview Ventures Unlocking great potential Vishesh Rajaram, managing partner and Ishika Mittal, research analyst, Speciale Invest said, “Pune has historically been a hub for technology startups and this year we saw active work in deeptech, healthcare, clean-tech, and SaaS, amongst others. We have incredible work done by a few early-stage biotech startups such as Cygenica and Synthera Biomedical. Similarly, engineering heavy startups such as Quasar - building a platform for SDR apps and Stiger - building electric fleet vehicles have also made significant progress. Also, Atal Innovation Mission (AIM) joined hands with Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation (BMGF) earlier this year to support deeptech entrepreneurship and selected Venture Centre to lead the program. “With the rise of deeptech startup funding in India, Pune seems to be on the verge of unlocking great potential. In 2021, deeptech startups raised over $500M in funding in Q2 and Q3, comprising 19 per cent and 15 per cent respectively of all investments - encouraging numbers considering this was less than 6 per cent in 2017. Pune might soon become a pioneering space for startups in the advanced technology sector.” Vishesh Rajaram, managing partner and Ishika Mittal, research analyst, Speciale Invest Immense challenges and opportunities In the words of Dr V Premnath, director of Venture Center NCL, the year 2021 has been a landmark year for startups. Two startups from Pune — Noccarc Robotics and SynThera Biomedical — bagged the top awards constituted by the Technology Development Board on occasion of National Technology Day. Says Dr Premnath, “In this year, overshadowed by the pandemic, startups around the world stood out in their contributions to the world and inspired a new generation of entrepreneurs. The contributions of MyLab for diagnostics, ScanRay and Nocca Robotics for ventilators, Blackfrog Technologies for cold chain, and many startups for PPEs and sterilisation stand out. In the backdrop of Covid, the startup world saw tremendous interest from the investor community for startups serving a population and businesses in extended lockdowns and uncertain work environments and startups leveraging science-based deeptech to address the world’s most important problems. There was a new realisation of the importance of science-based deeptech solutions against the backdrop of the pandemic.” “In FY 2020-21 alone, Venture Center supported over 200 entrepreneurs, and Venture Center startups raised a phenomenal ₹150 crore in investments during FY2020-21. The year 2022 comes with renewed promise for the startup ecosystem in Pune. Venture Center also expects that the country is entering a phase of action for agrotech and medtech startups.” Dr V Premnath, director, Venture Center EV readiness Says Akshima Ghate, senior principal, RMI India – an independent think tank – “It has been an interesting year for the EV ecosystem. Despite the challenges of Covid-19, month-on-month sales of EV vehicles are on a continuous increasing trend. About 3 lakh EVs are being sold in the country while in Maharashtra, EV sales have increased to almost 2.5 per cent of total new vehicle sales. Maharashtra EV policy gives best incentives, big fiscal support, to manufactures, components, batteries, OEM, charging infrastructure. As a result, we have seen good amount of industrial activity and start-ups coming up in Maharashtra, in particular Pune and Mumbai region – around electric vehicles (EV).” “We are working with the Pune Municipal Corporation to help them develop an ‘EV Readiness’ plan for the city. It will identify what needs to be done in next three months, six months, one year to remove the roadblocks to EV deployment in the city. We have broadly identified eight actionable steps including specific initiatives, projects and actions that different departments should undertake and implement. This will position Pune much better in terms of EV adoption and the city will get more business interests.” Akshima Ghate, senior principal, RMI India Commercial real-estate picking up The ‘affordable commercial space’ segment is seen in demand. For example, managed office space provider Smartworks leased a total of 5.6 lakh sq ft at Baner, of which 40 per cent was pre-booked by IT/ITeS, BFSI and manufacturing clients. Says Jatin Suratwala, chairman of Suratwwala Business Group, “Real-estate market was picking up after first wave ended. Buyers were taking benefits of stamp-duty incentive till March 2021 but the second wave in April (to June) was a dampener. The overall cycle came back to routine only after July 2021. We could see that the investor-class had backed out while the residential buyer, especially from the affordable segment, dominated the pre-Covid period. However, after Covid, spacious home became a need due to work-from-home (WFH) requirement. Buyers started upgrading to larger homes while the investor-class got attracted to commercial properties.” “Maximum commercial projects were launched in last one year within an affordable ticket size of ₹30 or ₹40 lakh onwards. Small businesses, startups and mid-sized IT companies need small commercial spaces and prefer such rental arrangements. We are seeing that 80 per cent purchases of such properties is being done by investor-clients, while IT and startup companies and banks (for their back offices) are on top in terms of demand for such commercial spaces.” Jatin Suratwala, chairman of Suratwwala Business Group||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/startup-mantra-robust-rise-of-new-successful-firms-101640429905455.html
25-12-2021||Mumbai||HC upholds jail term for man who sneaks in neighbour’s house, touches her feet||The Bombay high court on Friday upheld a one-year jail term for a 36-year-old man from Partur in Jalna district for outraging the modesty of one of his neighbours by touching her feet by discreetly sneaking into her house late in the night.As per the prosecution case, at about 11 pm on July 4, 2014, the woman sensed someone touching her feet. She woke up and found the convict, her neighbour Parmeshwar Dhage, sitting on her cot. Shocked, the woman shouted for help, which woke up her grandmother-in-law, who too screamed for help. Before their other neighbours gathered on hearing their screams, Dhage fled from the house. The next day, she approached the police and set the criminal law in motion. On June 25, 2015, a judicial magistrate, first class at Partur, convicted him for criminal trespass and for outraging the modesty of the woman and sentenced him to one year’s rigorous imprisonment. Dhage moved the HC after Jalna sessions court upheld his conviction and maintained the prison term. It was argued on his behalf before the high court that on that fateful night, the woman’s husband was not at home and the door of the house had not been latched and these factors indicated that the convict had entered her house with her consent. At any rate, his counsel submitted that Dhage had no sexual intent in touching the woman’s feet and therefore his conviction was liable to be set aside. The argument, however, failed to impress upon the single-judge bench of justice MG Sewlikar, who noted that the convict was sitting on the woman’s cot in the dead of night and touching her feet. “This behaviour smacks of sexual intent,” said the judge. “Otherwise, there was no reason for the applicant to be in the house of the victim at such an odd hour of the night.” Moreover, the court said, “touching any part of a woman’s body by a stranger, without her consent, that too in the dead of the night would be a violation of modesty of a woman.” “The applicant did not enter the house of the victim with any sublime motive,” said the court after noticing that in the evening he had enquired with the woman and confirmed that her husband would not be present in the house in the night. “Therefore, the applicant ventured to enter the house. This clearly indicates that the applicant had gone there with sexual intent and violated the modesty of the informant,” the court observed. ...||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/hc-upholds-jail-term-for-man-who-sneaks-in-neighbour-s-house-touches-her-feet-101640429726312.html
25-12-2021||Gurugram||Right-wing activists disrupt Christmas prayers in Gurugram: Report||A group of men claiming to be right-wing activists allegedly barged into the premises of a church in Pataudi here on the eve of Christmas and disrupted the prayers, according to a viral video.Police, however, said they have not received any complaint.The video shows some men entering the church premises on Friday evening and raising slogans 'Jai Shree Ram' and 'Bharat Mata Ki Jai'.They are seen allegedly pushing the choir members down the stage and snatching the mike.The incident comes at a time when offering namaz in certain open spaces in Gurugram has kicked up a controversy.A local pastor told PTI, "It was scary as we had women and children around in the church. The nuisance is increasing with each passing day. It's an infringement of our right to pray and religion."Pataudi station house officer Amit Kumar said the police did not receive any complaint so far.The local administration is yet to respond.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/rightwing-activists-disrupt-christmas-prayers-in-gurugram-report-101640426500635.html
25-12-2021||Bangalore||Will make decision on imposing night curfew in tomorrow's meeting: Karnataka CM||Karnataka chief minister Basavaraj Bommai said on Saturday that a decision on imposing night curfew in the state will be made on Sunday in a meeting with experts, according to news agency PTI. His statements come in wake of India reporting 415 cases of the Omicron variant of Covid-19.Bommai added that his fear is that Covid-19 cases in Maharashtra, Kerala and Tamil Nadu - all of which are neighbouring states of Karnataka, are rising following the emergence of Omicron. “I will discuss with all the important people and will decide the next course of action keeping in view the present situation,” he was quoted as saying by PTI.The Karnataka chief minister on Tuesday banned public gatherings or celebrations due to Christmas and New Year between December 30, 2021 and January 2, 2022. The state government has only permitted clubs and restaurants to run with a 50 per cent seating capacity, and without special events such as disc-jockeying (DJ). Bommai also said that full vaccination is mandatory for both staff as well as customers.Bengaluru police chief Kamal Pant said as per the state government's communication, concerned authorities in a particular district have the onus to make decisions and take measures ahead of the festive week. “We'll issue a prohibitory order on Monday (December 27) and Tuesday (December 28),” he told Hindustan Times.India's Omicron tally climbed to 415 on Saturday from 358 the preceding day. Maharashtra and Delhi remained the top contributors in the country, with 108 and 79 cases of the new variant of Covid-19 detected so far. Karnataka on Thursday confirmed 12 new Omicron cases, taking the state's tally to 31.Notably, Omicron was first reported in Karnataka before spreading across the country subsequently.Several states have announced night curfew and restrictions for Christmas and New Year in order to contain the Omicron variant from spreading any further.Maharashtra has prohibited the gathering of more than five people at public places between 9pm and 6am, while in Uttar Pradesh and Haryana, a night curfew has been imposed between 11pm and 5am from Saturday onwards. Madhya Pradesh government has also imposed night curfew with similar timings for the festive week in view of rising Omicron cases in the country.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/will-make-decision-on-imposing-night-curfew-in-tomorrow-s-meeting-karnataka-cm-101640422545670.html
25-12-2021||Noida||Noida’s farm tourism, an apt break from city’s humdrum||With Covid-19 taking a toll on not only those infected by the viral disease but also those who have been restricted to their homes ever since the pandemic began, the vast expanse of agricultural land in Gautam Budh Nagar has opened the doors of farm tourism in the district, providing a refreshing break to people who want to break free from the humdrum of their city life and reconnect with nature.Farm tourism involves inviting and attracting visitors to a farm land usually for recreational purposes. These farms are run by locals, who have either bought the land or are leasing it out. Visitors can take a stroll along the farm and also learn farming from the owner or the local villagers at the fram. Many families plan their picnics in these farms, which also sell the organic products produced by the locals. Some farms also serve food made from the locally grown vegetables.Located in Sector 126, Beejom is one such sustainable farm spread over two acres, which started in 2018 but gained more popularity post lockdown. Sector 20 resident Aparna Rajagopal, who owns and runs the farm, said since they reopened to visitors after Covid curbs were relaxed, there has been a revived interest in farm tourism.“Most of the visitors we had before the pandemic would get to know about Beejom through word of mouth. By the end of 2019, we used to host at least 50 people every weekend as entry remained free. After the lockdown was imposed, we could reopen in January this year and then again shut down in March after the second wave happened. After we reopened in September, we are hosting almost 100 people every weekend,” said Rajagopal adding that now they have started charging an entry fee of ₹100 per person on all days, except Saturdays, in order to keep Covid protocols in place.“Since this place is within easy reach, it serves as a convenient place for people to spend their weekend at. Though restrictions are relaxed, many are still working from home and schools too have not opened completely. As a result, going outdoors has almost become a luxury and people are looking to reconnect with nature now,” added Rajagopal, who is a lawyer-turned-farmer.Nandini and Manish Gupta, residents of Noida’s Sector 52, came to the farm on Saturday with their 2-year-old son Shael. “Our son was born just before the pandemic and we never got an opportunity to connect him with nature. We show him animals and plants in children’s books but in the city life, we are never able to show him these things in real. We got to know about Beejom through social media and decided to come here. It was a delight to see him beaming with joy watching the hens, ducks, rabbits and other farm animals here,” said Nandini, who works in an MNC.Puneet Tyagi, who owns Prodigal Farms in Sector 131 and has been hosting visitors here since 2017, said the footfall in his farm has doubled post lockdown. “Just before the lockdown in 2020, visitors to the farm had started increasing as people were interested to spend time with nature. After we shut in March 2020, we could resume operations from October this year and the response has been better than the pre-Covid era,” he said.On the other hand, there are also those who picked up the concept during the lockdown. Sector 104 resident Sanchaita Mazumdar left her job after the Covid outbreak in June 2020 and found herself scouting for land in Noida to grow her own organic produce.“What started as a lockdown hobby to grow our own vegetables at a rented land turned into a family-run farm, which started hosting visitors by October 2020. The farm is filled with vegetable crops that we plant and harvest. My mother cooks these for visitors at a small kitchen here. Because of Covid, we only take bookings in advance and no walk-ins are allowed. We are overwhelmed with the response from people, looking to reconnect with nature and have a rural experience,” said Mazumdar, who runs Baagh Bagicha farm and nursery in Sector 135.“Though restrictions are relaxed and we can go for a vacation, going to the farms on the outskirts of the city seems to be a more convenient alternative. I recently discovered such a farm near my residence, which opens for visitors on weekends and I have been going there with my family for the last three weeks,” said Atul Rathore, who lives in Sector 137 and visits a farm called Baagh Bagicha in Sector 135.Having been through the worst during the Covid pandemic, visiting farms is also therapeutic for some. “After recovering from Covid in June and staying at home for months on end, both have had a negative impact on my mental health. I got to know about one of the farms here through an acquaintance and one visit here felt like I have healed. The wind feels totally free from pollution and it feels refreshing to visit the fields. I try to learn some farming and connect with nature,” said Rakhee Vashisht, a resident of Greater Noida west who has been visiting Baagh Bagicha for the past one month.Greater Noida resident Vikrant Tongad, who is an environmentalist, offered up his land in Kheri Bhanauta village for community farming in 2014 to a group of environment-conscious working professionals from Noida. Today, visitors throng the farm, which is about 15-20 kilometers from Noida.“While group of visitors used to visit earlier too, queries and visits have increased manifold after Covid. While earlier, those visiting the farm were mostly from the environment conservation community, now those who are busy with their hectic schedules also visit the farm, learn farming and teach their kids the same,” said Tongad, who invites visitors through social media.However, he added that the concept of farm tourism still runs in an unorganised manner and needs a push from government agencies to gain more popularity.“These farms are located in rural villages of the district and those who maintain these farms and work here the whole week are local villagers themselves. It becomes difficult for them to work here when there is a lack of basic amenities like public washrooms, steady supply of water and uninterrupted electricity. If the district authorities ensure such basic necessities here, it will be easier for workers as well as visitors to have a good time,” he said.There are about seven to eight more such places in Noida and Greater Noida which are being used for farm tourism. District magistrate Suhas L Y said, “There are various government policies under which rural and agricultural areas are being developed in the district. Further, if villagers and farmers face any issues, I will direct concerned authorities to resolve them.”
25-12-2021||Mumbai||New Year celebrations banned in Mumbai amid Omicron scare||In the wake of a recent upturn in Covid-19 cases in Mumbai, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) on Friday night banned new year gatherings and Christmas celebrations in the city.“No new year celebration programme, party, function, gathering, activity, happening in any open or closed spaced shall be allowed within the municipal limits of greater Mumbai,” a circular issued by Municipal municipal commissioner, Iqbal Singh Chahal, read.“Measures are being tightened to contain the spread of the virus and avoid any possible surge in Covid-19 cases especially considering the upcoming Christmas and New Year gatherings and with a view to prevent danger to human life, health, safety and to break the chain of the virus effectively,” the circular said.The measure came into effect from midnight of December 25.The BMC has also imposed a ban on public gatherings on five or more people between 9 pm and 6 am.The civic body has also ordered that no more than 100 attendees will be allowed inside enclosed spaces like banquet halls and not more than 250 people will be allowed inside open sky spaces during marriage events, social, political and religious gatherings.It also mentioned that all the restaurants, gymnasiums, spas and theatres will continue to operate at 50 percent capacity. And the number of spectators in a sports event should not exceed 25 percent capacity of the stadium.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/new-year-celebrations-banned-in-mumbai-amid-omicron-scare-101640421386349.html
25-12-2021||Mumbai||Amid Omicron concerns, 19 students test positive for Covid-19 in Maharashtra school||As many as 19 school students have tested positive for the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in the Ahmednagar district of Maharashtra over the last three or four days, reports have said.Ahmednagar district collector Rajendra Bhosale said all students belong to Jawahar Navodaya Vidyalaya and have only a mild illness."Nineteen students tested positive over the last three to four days. All are isolated and hospitalised. Most of them have no symptoms and some have only mild illness," PTI quoted Bhosale as saying."We are conducting RT-PCR testing of remaining students as well as teachers, non-teaching staff and visitors," Bhosale added.Also read | Omicron cases in India rise to 415, 115 recovered, says Union health ministryLocated at Takali Dhokeshwar village, Jawahar Navodaya Vidyalaya is a residential school and comes under the Union education ministry. As many as 400 students across classes 5 to 12 are currently studying in the school.Meanwhile, authorities in Ahmednagar issued a “no vaccine, no entry” order amid growing concerns over the Omicron variant and the rising Covid-19 cases in the district.Also read | First dose must: Ahmednagar issues ‘no vaccine, no entry’ order amid Omicron threatAs per the order, those who are not vaccinated against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) will not be allowed to enter various public areas, including private establishments, shopping malls, hotels, restaurants, cinemas, auditoriums, marriage halls, government or semi-government offices.Maharashtra reported 1,410 new Covid-19 cases during the last 24 hours, taking the tally of Covid-19 cases in the state to 66,54,755, the state health department said on Friday. It also said 12 people lost their lives to the deadly virus, taking the death toll in the state to 141,404.The state has also detected 108 cases of the Omicron variant so far, prompting authorities to prohibit the gathering of more than five people in public places from 9pm-6am, among other such measures, from early Saturday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/amid-omicron-concerns-19-students-test-positive-for-covid-19-in-maharashtra-school-101640418618823.html
25-12-2021||Patna||Vigilance raids against Saran jail SP in DA case worth over 5 crore||The vigilance investigation bureau (VIB) on Friday lodged a disproportionate assets case worth over ₹1.21 crore against Ramadhar Singh, superintendent of police (SP) of Saran divisional jail, officials said.Acting on allegations of amassing assets disproportionate to known sources of income, VIB conducted raids at three places belonging to Singh. VIB sleuths led by DSP Surendra Kumar Mahuar searched Singh’s official residence at Chhapra, the second team led by DSP Arun Kumar raided his native place at Siddarthpuri at Manpur in Gaya while the third team conducted searches at his rented flat in Patna and seized documents related to investments in real estate and insurance policies. In Gaya, the VIB team broke open some of his rooms before the presence of the magistrate, said DSP Arun Kumar, adding that most of the four-storied building occupy by tenants. The VIB seized ₹19.40 lakh cash, a gold bar, two gold bricks (worth ₹29 lakh), one kg silver and 500-gram gold from his locations. Documents pertaining to purchase of an SUV worth ₹11 lakh, 31 deeds worth ₹1.92 crore, 24 passbooks in which ₹30 lakh deposit and ₹12.50 lakh deposit in the post office. An officer associated with the investigation said evidence of investments in 12 LICs, mutual funds, share markets and other sectors were found during the raid. Preliminary investigation revealed that Singh was paying ₹2 lakh as the annual premium of an insurance policy, ₹75,000 as an annual premium paying to a couple of other schemes respectively. The VIB officer did not rule out the accumulation of more assets and investments by Singh disproportionate to his known sources of income. He has been booked under Section 13(2) read with 13(1)(b) of the Prevention of Corruption Act 1998. Elaborating on the searches, a senior VIB official said, “The raids and valuation of jail official’s properties are going on for amassing disproportionate assets”. 
25-12-2021||Other||‘He hasn’t resigned, issue is resolved’: Uttarakhand minister’s close aide||After a dramatic turn of events during the cabinet meeting in Uttarakhand, in which senior cabinet minister Harak Singh Rawat stormed out by tendering his “oral resignation” as a minister, BJP MLA and his close aide Umesh Sharma ‘Kau’ on Saturday morning claimed that “the issue has been resolved with no resignation from Rawat.”On late Friday evening, Rawat stormed out of the cabinet meeting citing “government inaction” on proposed medical college in his constituency. Before leaving, he “tendered his oral resignation as a minister.”Rawat, after leaving the meeting, left the state secretariat in his car without informing anyone about his whereabouts.According to a government senior official, present during the cabinet meeting, “While the cabinet was discussing various proposals during the meeting led by chief minister Pushkar Singh Dhami, Rawat raised the issue of approving the proposed medical college in his constituency of Kotdwar before the former which led to an argument between the two.”“The argument heated up after Rawat alleged that the development projects in his constituency are not being approved by the cabinet in a conspiracy. He then stormed out of the meeting saying, “There is no use of being a minister, I am leaving the cabinet”,” said the official.While speaking to media persons at his residence in Dehradun, Kau said Friday’s episode happened over Rawat’s unhappiness over the “proposed medical college in his constituency of Kotdwar.”He said, “It was not a big issue. The episode happened over the lack of approval of a proposed medical college in his constituency of Kotdwar. It has now been resolved as the government has approved it and would likely pass its government order on Monday.”“Rawat is also an MLA and was trying to carry development works in his constituency. However, if the officials put hurdles, then it is natural for him to get upset and angry. But now all is well. He never tendered his resignation and is with the party,” added Kau.
25-12-2021||Delhi||Delhi's AQI improves to 'very poor' category on Christmas Day||The pollution level in national capital Delhi improved marginally on Christmas Day (December 25), but still remained in ‘very poor’ category. Delhi’s air quality has been oscillating between ‘very poor’ and ‘severe’ over the last few weeks due to a combination of factors.The air quality index (AQI) recorded a reading of 398 on Saturday morning, according to the System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting And Research (SAFAR), as per news agency ANI.The morning was also cold, with the temperature settling at 7 degrees Celsius, a notch below normal, according to the India Meteorological Department (IMD).On Friday, the AQI in Delhi was ‘severe’, with a recording of 433 at 7am, as per CPCB data. The average 24-hour AQI was 423 on Thursday. On Wednesday, the AQI was 407 and 402 on Tuesday.An AQI between zero and 50 is considered "good", 51 and 100 "satisfactory", 101 and 200 "moderate", 201 and 300 "poor", 301 and 400 "very poor", and 401 and 500 "severe".Despite bad air quality, which led to reduced visibility, the flight operations remain normal at Delhi airport.In Delhi’s neighbours Noida and Gurugram, in the national capital region (NCR), the AQI was in ‘severe’ category. The AQI in Noida was at 491, while in Gurugram, it stood at 365, according to news agency ANI.Weather experts said the slowing down of winds due to a western disturbance affecting northwest India is leading to accumulation of pollutants, and high moisture content in the air makes pollutants heavier, making dispersion difficult.Light rain is likely in the plains of north India between December 27 and December 29, which may improve the air quality a bit.On Saturday, Delhi is expected to see mainly clear sky, and the maximum temperature may reach up to 23 degrees Celsius, the weather department said.On Monday, the CAQM lifted restrictions on construction and demolition activities in the Delhi-NCR and entry of trucks into the national capital in view of an improvement in the air quality and "favourable" meteorological forecast.However, Delhi's air quality turned 'severe' the next day.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhis-aqi-improves-to-very-poor-category-on-christmas-day-101640413868283.html
25-12-2021||Mumbai||First dose must: Ahmednagar issues ‘no vaccine, no entry’ order amid Omicron threat||Maharashtra's Ahmednagar district has issued a “no vaccine, no entry” order amid the rising cases of the Omicron variant of the coronavirus in the state.The order was issued by collector Rajendra Bhosale and will come into effect from Saturday.Those who are not vaccinated against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) will not be allowed to enter various public areas, including private establishments, shopping malls, hotels, restaurants, cinemas, auditoriums, marriage halls, government or semi-government offices, according to news agency ANI.According to the order, it has been made mandatory for people visiting these places to have at least one dose of the Covid-19 vaccine and follow Covid-19 appropriate behaviour, an official told news agency PTI.Before this, the Nashik district administration implemented the “no vaccine, no entry” order under which people who are not vaccinated against the coronavirus disease will not be allowed to enter commercial and public establishments, like malls, cinema halls, restaurants and government, public offices.Also read | Omicron spread: Night curfews, prohibitory orders in states as festivities startMaharashtra has detected 108 cases of the Omicron variant in the state so far, prompting the state government to prohibit the gathering of more than five people in public places from 9 pm-6 am, among other such measures, applicable from the intervening night of December 24-25.Maharashtra reported 1,410 new Covid-19 cases on Friday, taking the tally in the state to 66,54,755. As many as 868 people recovered from the disease in the same time span, taking the total recoveries in the state to 65,01,243.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/first-dose-must-ahmednagar-issues-no-vaccine-no-entry-order-amid-omicron-threat-101640405655793.html
25-12-2021||Delhi||Travel trends that satisfied wanderlust in 2021||Extended lockdown, limited social gathering and homestay compelled travel enthusiasts to think beyond and discover their love for travel again. Here are some popular trends from 2021: WorkationAs offices shut down, WFH gave us the freedom to work from anywhere. Many chose to combine work with leisure as they headed to exotic locations. “Workation saw a massive rise among professionals in 2021. With offices and schools shut, guests went to vacation homes with their families. Some of our bookings were extended to six months,” says Devendra Parulekar, founder SaffronStays. As people reported to work online, surrounded by mountains or sitting on a picturesque beach with their laptops, many felt that the soothing touch of nature improved their productivity. Hotels and vacation homes geared up to create remote work spaces by providing high-speed internet service, peaceful workspaces and study areas for children.Revenge Travelling After being locked up in their homes for about a year, people flocked to popular tourist destinations and spent longer time than usual, as if they were settling scores with the coronavirus for inflicting boredom and monotony upon them. There was a deeper urge to explore new destinations and cultures, and unwind with family and friends. Travel became more of a need than desire for people. Sunil Suresh, chief marketing officer, goibibo says, “There was a 45% month-on-month increase in hotel bookings on our site as people opted for quick getaways around New Year.” The trend grew strong over the next few months, with travellers choosing long-duration stays. “As the second wave hit us, summer travel season was washout. But things normalised by the end of June and travellers hit the road with vengeance once again,” says Suresh.Caravan Travelling Caravan travelling came up as one of the top domestic travel trends because of the safety bubble it offered. “Tourism in general went up in the second half of 2021. In this hike, caravan tourism also picked pace quite fast. It served the purpose of social distancing, hygiene and safety along with offering a unique travel experience to people ,” says Jigyasu Joshi,co-founder, Carvaa Travelers. Caravan travelling also provided travellers a lot of freedom and flexibility in their journey. They could relive the charm of a nomadic lifestyle while having access to modern amenities. People could take a halt at their own will, explore quaint locations, enjoy camping near a scenic lake or mountain, cook their own meals, and move ahead at their own pace. And families could also take their pets with them and carry extra baggage without any restrictions.Community Travelling Community-based tourism became a popular concept in 2021 as people had a renewed desire to connect to rural communities and know more about their history, culture, tradition and cuisine. Tourists lived like natives in homestays and took part in farming, cooking, milking cows, taking them for a swim, learning village craft and storytelling. Community tourism tours to remote, unexplored villages in Nagaland, Assam, Meghalaya, Rajasthan, Maharashtra, Jharkhand and Chattisgarh helped people get an authentic insight into local culture, rituals and beliefs. It also helped empower small communities. “In 2021, we noticed that people became more thoughtful and they wanted to use travel to positively contribute to the communities they visited,” says Amanpreet Bajaj, general manager - Airbnb India, Southeast Asia, Hong Kong and Taiwan. No Contact Travel Also known as zero contact and contactless travel, this trend became a necessity after the lockdown. From airports to hotels, everyone came up with contactless services to ensure maximum safety. Self-check-in kiosks, contactless identification at security, contactless sanitisation of luggage at airports, hotels offering scanned menus for ordering food and online concierge services gave people the confidence to travel once again. Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj International Airport (CSMIA) was the first airport in India to introduce a QR-code based technology to give passengers contactless check-in experience. This technology allowed passengers to use their own phone to scan the QR code to remotely self-check-in, thus minimising surface contact.
25-12-2021||Kolkata||Kolkata Metro to run 10 more services from today. Check timings here||Beginning December 25 – Christmas Day – the Kolkata Metro will be running ten additional services every Saturday. With this, as many as 230 daily services—115 up and 115 down services—will be provided to commuters instead of the current 220, reports have said.From December 27, the Kolkata Metro will be further increasing its services to 276 with 138 up and 138 down services on weekdays, according to reports, in order to cope with the expected rise in footfall over Christmas and New Year's holiday season.The reports indicate that the very first Metro trains of the day will start at 7am from Dum Dum to Dakshineshwar, from Kabi Subhas to Dakshineshwar, Dum Dum to Kabi Subhas, and from Dakshineshwar to Kavi Subhas.The last train of the day will be leaving from Dakshineshwar towards Kabi Subhas at 9:18pm, while the last metro rails from Dum Dum to Kabi Subhas and from Dakshineshwar to Kabi Subhas will both leave at 9:30pm.Additionally, the Kolkata Metro will be operating four extra ticket counters at the Park Street stop, a popular destination for Christmas celebrations in the city, which remains jam-packed from December 24 to January 1.The Metro stations in Kolkata which experience the highest football during the holiday season are Esplanade, Maidan, Park Street, and Rabindra Sadan, among others. The administration has decided to deploy additional security personnel of the Railway Protection Force (RPF) from 11am on Christmas Day to ensure the smooth passage of commuters and control the crowd.The Christmas and holiday season in India is one to watch, especially amid rising concerns over the highly transmissible Omicron strain of SARS-CoV-2 and experts fearing that public places may turn into coronavirus disease (Covid-19) hotspots.Several states have already strengthened curbs in districts reporting high case positivity rates along with measures such as bringing back the night curfew, strictly regulating large gatherings, and imposing restrictions on the number of guests who can attend marriage ceremonies and functions.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/kolkata-metro-to-run-10-more-services-from-today-check-timings-here-101640395663192.html
25-12-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana | 65-year-old daily wager hacked to death||A 65-year-old daily wager was found dead near Butahari Canal Bridge in Dehlon on Thursday. The victim, Sindar Singh of Dehlon village, was hacked to death with his axe and was found a kilometre away from the canal. His daughter, Bakhshish Kaur, 35, said he had gone to paint eucalyptus trees on forest land on Wednesday, but did not return home. Police suspect that Singh was hacked to death over some personal enmity as he was neither carrying money nor carrying an expensive mobile phone. He had also been seen consuming liquor with an unidentified man before his murder. Inspector Daljit Singh, Dehlon station house officer, said a case had been registered under sections of the Indian Penal Code.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-65-year-old-daily-wager-hacked-to-death-101640385622233.html
25-12-2021||Chandigarh||After Court Complex blast, Ludhiana railway station gets new scanners, cameras||A day after a blast at the court complex sent ripples across the city, security was finally ramped up at the Ludhiana railway station, which is one of the busiest terminals in the state, on Friday. Soon after the court complex blast, Government Railway Police (GRP) officials headed by additional inspector general (AIG) Pritipal Singh and officials of the Railway Protection Force (RPF) met to review the security arrangements at the station. In the past, intelligence reports have indicated that the station is on the radar of Pakistan-sponsored terrorists, and a few national rebel groups. Officers were told to keep an eye on the staff, sweepers, porters and vendors at the railway station. “We have been asked to frisk everyone and even keep an eye on the regular staff as anyone can be a member of a terror organisation”, said an officer, requesting anonymity. With security forces at the railway station grappling with shortage of staff, more security personnel from different parts of the state were deputed to Ludhiana. Five GRP personnel from Patiala and 20 RPF personnel have reached the district, while 20 Railway Special Force personnel have reached from Jammu. The security personnel were seen manning and frisking the public at the foot over bridge, which was not done before the blast. Teams of dog squads were seen keeping a strict vigil on every moment. 2 new scanners installedAfter being reprimanded by the AIG over defunct scanners, two new scanners were installed at Gate 1 and 2, respectively, under the supervision of deputy superintendent of police Balram Rana and inspector Jaskaran Singh on Friday. A defunct scanner was repaired and installed at the third entry exit gate of the railway station. However, the security made sure that each passenger entered the platform after getting their luggage scanned through the lone luggage scanner which usually breaks down after getting heated.New cameras orderedA senior official said of the 100 cameras at the railway station, a few are defunct and an order has been given to immediately replace or repair the CCTV cameras. Moreover, the location of a few cameras has been shifted by the GRP for better surveillance at blind spots. Parking shiftedThe parking has been shifted at some distance from Gate 1 and 2. “We do not want to take any chances, and thus the best possible security arrangements have been made at the Ludhiana station. The staff has been instructed to cooperate with security here”, said Tarun Kumar, station director, Ludhiana.
25-12-2021||Chandigarh||Security tightened after Ludhiana court complex blast||It took a bomb blast, and the loss of two lives to rouse the police from its deep slumber and tighten security at the district court on Friday. With the crème de la crème of politics, including Union minister Kiren Rijiju, visiting the spot, the court complex, which was earlier at the mercy of two defunct door-frame metal detectors and a handful of police personnel was turned into a mighty fortress. A four-layered defence was put up in the Mini Secretariat with the police personnel going as far as to scan advocates’ tiffins before allowing them to enter the premises. All advocates, and accused persons being brought to court were frisked before being granted entry. Though courts resumed on Friday, the spot where the bomb exploded was sealed by police personnel and other investigating agencies. All senior officers with the force were deputed at the court complex on security duty.The police have also frisked the accused brought to the court for the hearing. The police allowed very few visitors to enter the court complex who had court hearings on Friday. In most of the cases, advocates appeared in courts on behalf of the litigants. With the courts’ winter vacations, all courts will be closed from Saturday which will give agencies time to investigate. The police also closed some of the entry points to the court complex. With the cops busy probing the blasts, most complainants turning up at the commissioner’s office had to return as most officers were on VVIP duty. Police commissioner, Gurpreet Singh Bhullar, said that security had been beefed up at the court complex and other public places.
25-12-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana Court Complex blast: City on high alert, but no frisking at bus stand||Even though the city was on high alert a day after the explosion at the Ludhiana Court Complex, nothing seemed out of the ordinary at the Shaheed Sukhdev Thapar Inter State Bus Terminal on Friday, as travellers were not subjected to checking or frisking. Hundreds of visitors from different districts and states visit the bus stand, but no metal detectors have been installed at the entry points. A lone cop stood sentinel at the entry point, but he let the travellers enter and leave as they pleased without checking their baggage or their person. Some travellers were also spotted entering the bus stand from the rear end, Jawahar Nagar camp side. A passenger, Daljit Singh, said, “The police should not wait for a tragedy or calamity before tightening security, and should make proper security arrangements. Even if there are no intelligence inputs, regular checking should take place to deter people with criminal intentions.” Agreeing, another traveller, Jashandeep, said,”At least, metal detectors should be installed at the entry points. Security cameras should also be installed to keep an eye on suspicious activities.”Station supervisor, Kuljit Singh Sodhi, said, “The cops had carried out a thorough inspection of the bus stand on Thursday evening. A dozen security guards have been deputed at the bus stand, most of whom are ex-servicemen. We are also keeping a lookout on suspicious activities, if any.” Chinks in security at civil hospital, govt offices Though VIP movement has increased at the civil hospital over the last two days , there was no check on visitors and the entry of private vehicles. Deputy chief minister Sukhjinder Randhawa, director general of police Siddharth Chattopadhyaya, BJP state president Ashwani Sharma met the injured persons on Thursday, while AAP state president Bhagwant Mann visited the injured on Friday.Despite the Opposition taking digs at the government over the lack of security, there was no check on visitors at the MC’s offices, and civil surgeon office among other places.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-court-complex-blast-city-on-high-alert-but-no-frisking-at-bus-stand-101640385202410.html
25-12-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh likely to see cloudy weather on Christmas||With western disturbances (WD) active in the region, cloudy weather is expected in the city on Christmas, according to the India Meteorological Department (IMD). Thereafter, due to a fresh set of WD, which will affect the city from Sunday, light to moderate rain up to 30mm is likely.An IMD official said a fall in the maximum temperature can be expected in the next two to three days. “It can drop by over 5 degrees if it rains during the day. However, Christmas day is expected to be warm, on the lines of past few days,” the official said.Meanwhile, after Thursday, the city recorded trace rainfall (less than 0.1mm) on Friday morning as well. The minimum temperature decreased from 8.2°C on Thursday to 6.6°C on Friday, but was still one degree above normal, while the maximum temperature went up from 22.1°C to 23°C, two notches above normal.In the next three days, the maximum temperature will remain between 16°C and 22°C, while the minimum temperature will be between 7°C and 9°C.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-likely-to-see-cloudy-weather-on-christmas-101640384969581.html
25-12-2021||Chandigarh||Panjab University senate to meet after two years on January 8||Even as the elected members from two constituencies are yet to be notified, the Panjab University (PU) senate is scheduled to meet on January 8, 2022, after a gap of two years.Senate’s last meeting was held in December 2019, before the term of the last senate ended in October last year without fresh elections. A meeting notice, issued by PU registrar Vikram Nayyar on Friday, stated that a meeting of the senate will be held on January 8, 2022, at 11am in the senate hall of the university. However, the agenda for the meeting is yet to be announced.The development comes days after 35 members, including 33 elected members, were notified to the senate by Vice-President of India M Venkaiah Naidu, who is also the PU chancellor. So far, 71 members, including 36 nominated by the chancellor, have been notified. Six members elected from the constituency of faculties and eight members elected from the constituency of the teachers of affiliated arts colleges are yet to be notified.From both the constituencies, most of the members are from the Goyal group. The group had majority in the previous senate and syndicate as well. The election to the PU senate was held from August this year after a delay of one year. The elections, which began on August 3, were first scheduled in August 2020, but were postponed by vice-chancellor (V-C) Raj Kumar due to the Covid-19 pandemic.The senate is a 91-member apex governing body of the university. While 36 are nominated by the Vice-President of India, two are nominated from the Punjab assembly, six are ex-officio members and the remaining 47 are elected from the eight constituencies. 
25-12-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh municipal corporation elections see 60.7% voter turnout||A sizeable 60.7% of the city’s 6,33,475 lakh voters on Friday sealed the fate of 203 candidates, as voting for the Chandigarh municipal corporation elections concluded peacefully.The voter turnout was highest in the past six elections since 1996, although only marginally higher than the last MC elections in 2016, when it was 59.5%. In the 2011 elections too, the voting percentage hovered around 59%.In the last Lok Sabha elections in the city, in 2019, 73.6% city residents had casted their votes.At 73.31%, ward 1, comprising Sector 47, Blairmajra, and Faidan and Chahar Taraf in Burail, registered the highest voting, while ward 23 (Sectors 34, 35 and 43) recorded the lowest voter turnout at 42.66%.Counting of votes and declaration of results is scheduled on December 27.A total of 212 polling stations were set up in different parts of the city. Among the 694 booths, 220 were declared sensitive. In view of the Covid-19 pandemic, a higher number of polling booths were set up. As voting started at 7.30am, little activity was seen. Till 10am, only 12.37% votes were cast. Voting gradually increased over the day, touching 46.9% by 3pm. At the conclusion of voting (5pm), it finally reached 60.7%.The wards comprising villages and rehabilitation colonies witnessed heavy rush of voters, with long queues lasting till the last few hours of voting. At some booths, voters, particularly the senior citizens, complained that there were no facilities for them.In most wards with sectors, voting progressed at a slow pace. Ward 2, which comprises Sectors 1 to 10, saw only 50.8% voting. In comparison, several rural wards logged over 70% polling (see box).Currently, 103 people are suffering from Covid-19 in Chandigarh. Of these, only two came forward to cast their vote. Dr Suman Singh, director, health services, Chandigarh, said, “We contacted every patient and asked if they wanted to cast their vote. Only two men from Sector 21 showed interest.” The official said the patients were made to wear PPE Kits and taken to the polling station in an ambulance, during the last 30 minutes of voting.The Aam Aadmi Party alleged multiple instances of bogus voting. Party’s city president Prem Garg said, “In every ward, AAP workers found at least five-six bogus votes being cast. But the actual number can be much higher. We will ask the Election Commission to probe this.” He also complained that the commission didn’t provide the party photo electoral rolls. Congress president Subhash Chawla also claimed that a couple of incidents of bogus voting came to their notice, but added that they wouldn’t impact the election results. Countering AAP’s allegations, BJP’s Chandigarh president Arun Sood said, “These baseless and vague claims are being made only because the party knows that it is losing the election. They have repeatedly made unsubstantial allegations.” Returning to Chandigarh after a year, local MP Kirron Kher cast her vote at Government Model Nursery School, Sector 7. Having missed the election campaign due to her poor health, Kher visited Chandigarh especially for the voting day from Mumbai, where she is undergoing treatment for multiple myeloma, a blood cancer. While talking to media, Kher said, “The BJP will win the MC elections once again. In our last tenure, we ensured development through various projects. It was Congress leader Pawan Bansal who signed the contract with a private firm to run the garbage processing plant at Dadumajra. We are now cleaning up the mess that Bansal and the Congress made. Now they are trying to put the blame on us.”Kher added, “Bansal should tell what he and the Congress have done for the city rather than misleading people.”Lashing out at the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP), Kher said, “AAP wishes to turn Chandigarh into Delhi, while conditions in the capital are extremely poor. They should instead work on making Delhi like Chandigarh.”Covid protocols given the go-byAt most polling booths, especially in colonies, the large voter turnout meant long waiting, which led to many lowering their guard. While some voters gave masks a complete miss, others didn’t wear them properly. Even as social distancing circles were marked, voters were seen clinging on to each other, with little effort by authorities to keep a check. Cops, candidates and polling agents, too, did not set the right example, and were seen crowding and moving around without masks.Elections pass off peacefullyBarring some arguments and face-off between supporters of different parties, the Chandigarh municipal corporation elections passed off peacefully on Friday. A total of 3,700 police personnel were deployed from various units to maintain law and order, especially at the 52 sensitive polling stations and 220 sensitive booths. “No untoward incident was reported and the elections concluded peacefully,” said Kuldeep Singh Chahal, senior superintendent of police (SSP), Chandigarh. Protests over ‘irregularities’Protests were staged at two polling stations in Hallomajra and Colony Number 4, Industrial Area, against alleged irregularities during voting on Friday. Shashi Shankar Tiwari, a former Congress leader and currently heading the Azad Front, a group of independent candidates, alleged, “All polling agents, other than those of the BJP, were sent outside from the polling station in Electricity Office, near Colony Number 4 in ward 9 at 4.30pm.”Tiwari alleged that they were let in after 45 minutes following protests by his supporters.At the Hallomajra polling station, the polling agent of an independent candidate left for a while and was not allowed to re-enter. Thereafter, his supporters staged a protest against the election officials. Meanwhile, an official of the Election Commission refuted the allegations.Face off at PU Congress and AAP candidates, Sachin and Chandermukhi Sharma, respectively, had heated arguments on the PU campus after the latter objected to the presence of a large number of Congress supporters near Ankur School. ‘Fake’ voter ID cards: One booked, BLO suspended A day after the AAP alleged distribution of fake voter ID cards in Sector 34, police on Friday registered a case under Sections 419, 170 and 171 of the Indian Penal Code against the accused, Sanjeet Kumar, 34, a resident of Sector 33. Block level officer (BLO) Vasu, who was entrusted with the job of distributing voter ID cards, was also suspended. Dhaba owner booked The owner of a Sector-24 dhaba was arrested for serving liquor on Friday, despite it being declared a dry day by the administration. Pankaj, alias Raju, a resident of Sector 24, was arrested and later granted bail. A case under Section 188 of the IPC was registered.
25-12-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh bans partially jabbed adults in public places from Jan 1||From January 1, 2022, people who are yet to receive both doses of Covid-19 vaccine will not be allowed in public places in Chandigarh and will face a ₹500 fine, the UT administration said on Friday.Stating that a large number of beneficiaries in Chandigarh are due and overdue for their second dose of vaccine, UT adviser Dharam Pal issued a notice and said, “Considering emergent issues, people who are not fully vaccinated are required to take more precautions. In public places with large gatherings, like vegetable and grain markets, public transport, parks, religious places, malls, shopping complexes, markets and other similar places, only fully vaccinated adults will be allowed from January 1. In case any adult, with overdue second dose is found, they will be fined ₹500. Non-payment of the fine will attract proceedings under Section 188 of the Indian Penal Code.”The UT adviser directed the deputy commissioner and senior officials to ensure implementation and compliance of the orders.“Also, all government, board and corporation offices in Chandigarh should only allow fully vaccinated adults or those who are not due for second dose as per health protocol. Government and private banks, hotels, bars, restaurants, malls, shopping complexes, cinema halls, and gym and fitness centres should follow the same guidelines,” the notice further read. The UT administration said people should download their vaccination certificate from the CoWIN portal and keep its hard or soft copies, to present them when needed. Those without smartphones can show the text message regarding the vaccination status. The status on Aarogya Setu app will also be considered.1.48 lakh people missed second doseAccording to the latest electoral list and the central government’s set target, around 8.43 lakh people are to be immunised in Chandigarh. As on Friday, 9,62,223 (114%) people, including migrants, have taken their first shot in Chandigarh, while 7,04,901 (83%) are fully vaccinated.However, around 1.48 lakh people, who have taken their first dose of Covid-19 vaccines from healthcare facilities in Chandigarh, have not turned up for the second jab even after completion of the recommended vaccine time gap. The overdue number was as high as 1.87 lakh in the initial days of December.Over 40,000 people in Chandigarh are also due for the second dose, but they have not completed the 16-week time gap yet. UT health secretary Yashpal Garg said, “Vaccination has been demonstrated to be effective against emerging variants of concern in reducing mortality and transmission. Vaccination is for people’s own benefit and yet their hesitancy is forcing us to impose restrictions.”18 test positive in tricityAs many as 18 fresh Covid-19 cases were reported in the tricity on Friday, after 19 cases for the past three days. Chandigarh logged 12 cases, followed by four from Mohali and two from Panchkula. No Covid-related fatality was reported. Currently, 195 patients are still infected in the tricity. Among them, 103 are in Chandigarh, 47 in Panchkula and 45 in Mohali.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-bans-partially-jabbed-adults-in-public-places-from-jan-1-101640384962435.html
25-12-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana Court Complex blast:Sukhbir, Mann visit blast victims, seek ex-gratia||Ludhiana A day after the court complex blast, Shiromani Akali Dal president Sukhbir Singh Badal, and Aam Aadmi Party state chief Bhagwant Mann visited Dayanand Medical College and Hospital to enquire after the persons injured in the explosion, and demanded that the state government cover the hospital bills, and announce an ex-gratia grant for the victims.Berating Punjab chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi for “politicising the ghastly attack,” Badal said, “Covering hospital bills of the victims, and announcing an ex-gratia grant should be the CM’s priority, rather than playing a blame game. Channi should review the law-and-order situation, instead of meeting top police officers to devise ways and means to frame Akali leaders in false cases.” “What measures has the Congress government taken to identify the culprits and unravel the conspiracy behind the five bomb blasts over the last four months? Had measures been taken in time, the Ludhiana tragedy could have been averted,” he said. He said if the government had acted in time and taken timely measures the Ludhiana tragedy could have been averted. Govt weak, unstable: Mann The AAP state chief also blamed the “weak and unstable” government for the blast and sought a compensation of ₹5 lakh for the victims. “Had the government taken exemplary action in the Bargari sacrilege (2015) and Maur Mandi blast (2017), incidents of sacrilege and Ludhiana Court Complex blast would not have taken place,” said Mann.“What can be expected from home minister Sukhjinder Randhawa who has been accused of seeking a bribe from his colleague to transfer police officers. The state Congress Committee chief, Navjot Singh Sidhu, only raises questions, but does little for the betterment of the masses,” he said. Sessions judge, DC enquire after victims Ludhiana district and sessions judge Munish Singal and deputy commissioner Varinder Kumar Sharma met the victims injured in the blast and enquired after their health. Calling the blast an unfortunate incident Singal said, “Luckily, a major tragedy was averted as the blast took place in the restroom. We will beef up security at the complex with the cooperation of the administration and police to avoid a repeat.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-court-complex-blast-sukhbir-mann-visit-blast-victims-seek-exgratia-101640384546071.html
25-12-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana | MC approves dog park||The Finance and Contracts Committee (F and CC) of municipal corporation (MC) during the meeting held at mayor’s camp office near Rose Garden on Friday gave nod for appointing a third party to monitor quality of ongoing development works and to set up a first-of-its-kind dog park in the state in Sunet area. Over 100 resolutions regarding development and other works were discussed in the meeting.The idea of establishing a dog park has been taken from Hyderabad. People would be able to take their pet dogs for walks, exercise in a safe environment and dog shows can also be organised. It has been proposed that after establishing the park, it will be handed over to a contractor for maintenance and the contractor will pay ₹1 lakh per annum as rent to MC.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-mc-approves-dog-park-approved-101640384242164.html
25-12-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana | Covid vaccination camp by FOB and district health department||Field Outreach Bureau (FOB) of the union ministry of information and broadcasting in coordination with the district health department organised a Covid vaccination camp at Green Enclave, in Takshshila Vidya Mandir School premises, Jassian, on Friday.Special caps with ‘I am vaccinated ‘ tag, hand sanitizers, masks and refreshment were distributed amongst hundreds of beneficiaries who got themselves vaccinated. District immunization officer Dr Manisha was honoured by the field publicity officer of the bureau along with Dr Kartik Bansal and her other team members on the occasion.Earlier, a Fit India Freedom Run 2.0 was organised by the bureau at Guru Nanak Dev Stadium in the morning to make fitness an integral part of our daily lives. The first three winners Sagar, Shubham Rawat and Kishan Sonkar were awarded by district sports officer Ravinder Singh, field publicity officer Rajesh Bali, coach Sanjeev Sharma.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-covid-vaccination-camp-by-fob-and-district-health-department-101640383945322.html
25-12-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana skaters shine at National Roller Skating C’ship||Four roller skaters from Ludhiana on Friday shined at the 59th National Roller Skating championship organised by Roller Skating Federation of India at New Delhi.Gurkeerat Singh Sandhu won silver medal in 42km road marathon held under senior men(above 17 years) category.Armaan Setia bagged gold in 100m road race under 11-14 years girls, inline category. Vansh Rawat won bronze medal in 1 lap race under 11-14 years boys, inline category. Meanwhile, Vardhan Goraya bagged a bronze medal in 1 lap race road under 11-14 years boys (quads) category.Coach Jugadhbir Singh Grewal, Conquerors Speed Skating Academy, Ludhiana, said Gurkeerat also got selected for the trials of Asian Games to be held on December 25 at New Delhi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-skaters-shine-at-national-roller-skating-cship-101640383882365.html
25-12-2021||Chandigarh||LDCA Blues easy win over UCC Khanna by 7 wickets||Ludhiana District Cricket Association (LDCA) Blues on Friday defeated UCC Khanna by seven wickets in the opening match of u-16 cricket tournament organised by LDCA at GRD grounds.A total of eight teams are participating in the tournament.UCC Khanna won the toss and chose to bat first. They scored 148 runs for the loss of seven wickets in 35 overs. LDCA Blues chased the target in 29.3 overs at the loss of three wickets.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ldca-blues-easy-win-over-ucc-khanna-by-7-wickets-101640383824819.html
25-12-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana | CT University organises ‘Tarang,’ inter school competition||Ludhiana: CT University organised an inter-school competition ‘Tarang’ on Friday.School of Management Studies, School of Humanities and Physical Education, School of Law, School of Engineering and Technology, School of Pharmaceuticals and Healthcare Sciences, School of Agriculture and Natural Sciences, School of Hotel Management, Airlines and Tourism and School of Design and Innovation participated in the event.Performances by International, North-East, South and Punjabi students portrayed India’s social diversity.The students participated in mulltiple events, including skit, poetry, solo singing, solo dance, group dance, photography, debate, slogan writing and many more.The overall trophy was lifted by School of Design and Innovation. While, 1st Runner up trophy was shared by School of Engineering and Technology with School of Law; the 2nd runner up prize was bagged by the School of Healthcare. CT University vice-chancellor Harsh Sadawarti said, “These events bring out the best of potential in students. The events within campus motivates students to prepare for National level events. Also, students can tap their unexplored sides.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-ct-university-organises-tarang-inter-school-competition-101640383582336.html
25-12-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana | 89 trains cancelled due to rail roko protest||As the ‘rail roko’ protest of the Kisan Mazdoor Sangarsh Committee (KMSC) entered its fifth day, as many as 89 trains were cancelled by the Ferozepur Division of the Northern Railways on Friday, In addition, 14 trains were short-terminated and 19 trains were short-originated. Farmers had blocked railway tracks at Jandiala in Amritsar-Jalandhar Railway Section; Tanda in Jalandhar-Pathankot Section; Tarn Taran in Amritsar-Khemkaran Section and Ferozpur in Bathinda-Ferozpur Railway Section since Monday, seeking complete loan waiver of farmers in Punjab.Passengers bear the bruntDespite Northern Railways’ repeated requests to the passengers to check the desired trains before commencement of journey, many reached the station on Friday for the railway ticket.The passengers at the Ludhiana Railway station had to return disappointed after finding trains cancelled. A few waited for a long time for their alternative trains at the station, while others left with no other alternative had to commute using other public transport. A security official said, “Due to security reasons, we don’t want anyone to enter the railway station without any reason. Since most of the trains are cancelled due to the farmers’ protest, we are informing the public at the entry points only”.(Passengers can check the trains status at Rail Madad helpline number 139, NTES App and indianrail.gov.in.)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-89-trains-cancelled-due-to-rail-roko-protest-101640383342108.html
25-12-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana | Now, Pakhowal road ROB/RUB project cut-off date Dec 31||With deadlines piling up for the Pakhowal road railway over bridge (ROB) and railway under bridges (RUB) project, the municipal corporation (MC) commissioner Pardeep Sabharwal inspected the ongoing work on Friday. Contractors of MC and the railway department have been directed to complete the RUB from Pakhowal road canal bridge towards Sarabha Nagar by December 31. The deadline for the entire project is March 2022. Initiated in December last year, the project has missed several deadlines. Earlier, cabinet minister Bharat Bhushan Ashu had assured that one of the RUBs being constructed from Pakhowal road towards Sarabha Nagar area, would be completed by July but the deadline was put forward to August 31 and then to Diwali. Now, recently the deadline was further extended to January.Commuters facing harrowing timeFor commuters moving towards the Pakhowal road canal bridge from Sarabha Nagar and Hero Bakery Chowk; closure of the stretch has meant taking a detour via the Shastri Nagar Railway Crossing, Model Town Extension, or Cremation Ground Road (Ishmeet Singh Road). The bad condition of Ishmeet Singh road adds to the woes of the commuters.Sabharwal said, “The project got delayed due to the pandemic and railways department had also delayed the work in the past. The work was also put to halt for around three week in November after the main sewer line got damaged and the site turned into a cesspool.”Under the project, a 839.83 metre-long ROB, is being constructed for the movement of traffic from Pakhowal road canal bridge towards the Hero Bakery Chowk. Besides, a 1,018.46 metre-long RUB, is being constructed from the Pakhowal road canal bridge up to the Leisure Valley in Sarabha Nagar, and another RUB, 458.20 metre-long, is being constructed from Hero Bakery Chowk up to the Pakhowal Road canal bridge.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-now-pakhowal-road-rob-rub-project-cut-off-date-dec-31-101640383102207.html
25-12-2021||Chandigarh||Cong had false case filed against Majithia: SAD||SAD district unit staged a protest at Jagraon bridge on Friday accusing the Congress government for lodging ‘false’ FIR, ahead of assembly elections, against Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) leader and former minister Bikram Singh Majithia in the drugs case.The agitation was raised as part of state-wide protest. Section 144 of Code of Criminal Procedure was imposed by the administration and heavy police was deployed at the bridge during the protest.SAD slams gov over Court Complex blast SAD leaders also slammed the government over the Court Complex blast on Friday, stating that the government failed to act despite alarms raised by Intelligence Bureau and other agencies in the past. SAD leaders led by district president Harbhajan Singh Dang and district president of Youth Akali Dal , Gurdeep Gosha said rather than taking up development of the state, the Congress government is indulging in ‘vendetta politics’ by lodging false FIRs. Senior leaders including MLA Manpret Ayali, former district president Ranjit Dhillon, RD Sharma, Pritpal Pali among others joined the agitation.Gosha said, “The congress government is trying to divert the attention of the public from main issues by lodging false FIRs against SAD leaders. The Congress has failed to take up development. The blast incident in Ludhiana is the sixth such incident in Congress goverment’s tenure and the Congress is again trying to push the state towards the dark days of terrorism. The law and order situation is deteriorating but the government is involved in vendetta politics, which is shameful,” said Gosha.“SAD will continue to raise its voice against the false cases being registered by Congress and further action plan will be chalked out as per the directions received from the state body,” said Dang.Snarled-up trafficMovement of traffic was obstructed on the bridge and Field Ganj area owing to numerous vehicles of SAD leaders and supporters being parked on the bridge. Traffic police was deployed to regular the flow of traffic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/cong-had-false-case-filed-against-majithia-sad-101640382802566.html
25-12-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana | Foetus found in garbage dump, FIR registered||A foetus was found in a garbage dump on a vacant plot in Rajiv Gandhi Colony on Thursday. The foetus was taken to the mortuary for postmortem. Assistant sub-inspector Ashok Kumar, who is investigating the case, said the gender of the foetus is yet to be ascertained. “The foetus seems to be seven to eight weeks old. We suspect that an unmarried woman could have terminated her pregnancy to avoid a scandal,” he said. The cops will check hospitals records, nursing homes and question midwives to find whether anybody had undergone an abortion over the last two to three days. An FIR has been registered under Section 318 (concealment of birth by secret disposal of dead body) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) against an unidentified woman .||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-foetus-found-in-garbage-dump-fir-registered-101640382562061.html
25-12-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh MC polls: Women vote for safety, better facilities at public places||Women voters, who account for over 47% of the total voters in Chandigarh, had safety and facilities at public places on their mind as they exercised their franchise during the civic body polls on Friday. Parminder Kaur, a resident of Sector 40, said, “Even though women account for 48% of the voters, the authorities are doing little to facilitate them. Most of the public parks and roads in the city do not have enough streetlights, making it difficult for women to step out during evening hours. Besides, parks do not have facilities such as open-air gyms and toilets for women.” Kiran Sharma, 73, a resident of Sector 41, said, “My husband and I live alone in a flat on the second floor. Garbage collectors refuse to come to the second floor, due to which we have to climb down the stairs every day. For senior citizens like us, it is a difficult task. Not only this, sweepers don’t even turn up on some days.”Savita Devi, a homemaker residing in Basti Kishangarh, which falls under ward 4, said, “The city definitely lacks maintenance of public infrastructure. Roads need recarpeting while streetlights are also out of order in the area. The newly added area in the MC does not even have a single park and women and children have no place to walk or play. Drinking water is contaminated and sewer lines are blocked. Door-to-door garbage collection is also irregular. Since we are voting for the first time, we expect councillors to provide basic facilities to the people.” Bharti Batra, a resident of Sector 15, said, “My family has always motivated me to vote for the leader I believe in. It is our duty to elect a candidate who can work for the betterment of the city, and not blindly follow political parties. The city has major issues such as cleanliness, parking and welfare schemes, but women’s issues also need to attention.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-mc-polls-women-vote-for-safety-better-facilities-at-public-places-101640382324049.html
25-12-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana | Farmers extend protest till December 30||Despite tight security outside the mini secretariat, a day after the court complex blast, farmers continued to protest outside the establishment on Friday, and also extended their protest by five days. Farmers protesting under the banner of the Bhartiya Kisan Union (Ugrahan), have extended their protest till December 30, despite the imposition of Section 144 of the Code of Criminal Procedure (CrPC). In the wake of the blasts, the protesters have moved out of the mini secretariat. The farmers said that chief minister Charanjit Channi, who had met their representatives in Chandigarh on Thursday had agreed to most of their demands. However, another meeting had been called on December 30 to discuss their key demand for debt waiver. The farmers said the protest will not be lifted until all their demands were actually fulfilled. The farmers had commenced a five-day, 24-hour protest outside the secretariat on December 20, seeking fulfilment of the promises made by the Congress government ahead of the state polls. The demands include debt waiver, compensation for damaged cotton crop, and payment of increased state advisory price (SAP). The farmers are carrying gas cylinders, wheat, vegetables, mattresses and other necessities in their tractors so as to be able to carry on with the siege.The union’s Raikot in-charge Gurpreet Singh said, “The CM has assured us that all our demands, including payment of increased SAP for sugarcane, and compensation for damaged cotton crop, will be fulfilled. However, nothing has been done at ground level yet. The protest will continue day and night till December 30 and further action will be taken on the directions of the state body.”Farmers protest outside bankAccusing the bank authorities of committing a fraud in the name of providing subsidies on farming, farmers also staged a protest outside a bank in Feroz Gandhi Market on Friday. Farmers said they will be forced to start a 24-hour protest outside the bank too, if the authorities failed to resolve the issue.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-farmers-protest-extended-outside-mini-secretariat-by-5-more-days-101640382322644.html
25-12-2021||Delhi||‘Odd-even’ orders for Sarojini Nagar shops after HC censure||Hours after the Delhi high court initiated contempt proceedings against the station house officer (SHO) concerned and the enforcement officer of the New Delhi Municipal Council (NDMC) for their failure to control overcrowding at Sarojini Nagar market, the Delhi government on Friday ordered shops at the market to operate on an odd-even basis on weekends, beginning from December 25-26.The move was, however, criticised by the market association which said it will not follow the order as it was issued without consulting the traders.Under the system, odd-numbered shops will open on Saturday and even numbered shops on Sunday.“Increasing footfalls are seen in Sarojini Nagar market during last few days... therefore, with the need to control the same in light of the rapid spike in daily cases and positivity, it was decided unanimously by all market trade associations on Friday to follow odd-even operations for weekend of December 25 and 26,” an order issued by the New Delhi district administration stated.On Wednesday, the Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) had said that market trade associations will be responsible for ensuring compliance of Covid appropriate behaviour by all shops and market complexes within their respective areas. It also asked the district authorities to take appropriate action to ensure full adherence to the directives.Ashok Randhawa, president of Sarojini Nagar Mini Market Association Traders, however, said that the order was issued without a consensus of the traders. “The administration has imposed odd-even to hide its own failure. Since the order has come late at night, all shops will open on Saturday,” he said.Earlier on Friday, a bench of justices Vipin Sanghi and Jasmeet Singh, said, “We have seen the video… Covid-19 or no Covid-19, the situation is eerie. There can be a stampede where hundreds of people can die… And don’t tell us that this is state-managed. Hundreds of people are pushing each other...” justice Sanghi said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/oddeven-orders-for-sarojini-nagar-shops-after-hc-censure-101640381732748.html
25-12-2021||Chandigarh||FSSAI certifies Vaishno Devi Shrine Board under BHOG||Shri Mata Vaishno Devi Shrine Board becomes the first place of worship in the UT of Jammu and Kashmir to get food safety license as part of the Blissful Hygienic Offering to God (BHOG), which aims at maintaining food safety and hygiene at worship places, mandated by the Food Safety and Standards Authority of India (FSSAI).The food safety department has started implementing BHOG to ensure that safe and wholesome parsad/ food is received by the devotees along with the blessing of Goddess in and around Shri Mata Vaishno Devi Shrine.The Shrine Board is registered under BHOG in October and, thereafter, the officials of the food safety department carried out pre and post audits as a part of an initiative to issue BHOG certification of the Food Safety and Standards Authority of India to ensure hygiene and safety of ‘prasad’ and other food items served to devotees.As part of the pre and post audit, inspections were carried out at various catering outlets of Shrine Board, langar kitchens and halls en route track to Holy Shrine. The team also inspected the cooking process, storage and quality of food products. Cleanliness of the kitchens and vessels, standard of food products and water used for cooking were among the important aspects studied during the pre and post audit. Besides, cleaning, waste and sewage disposal systems were also checked.The facilities and processes adopted during audits at various locations of Shri Mata Vaishno Devi Shrine Board were found to be good by and large on the basis of which BHOG certification and star ratings issued by the FSSAI based on the pre and post audits. Noteworthy is that the Langar at Tarakote Marg is verified “Five Star” in Hygiene rating.Ramesh Kumar, chief executive officer, SMVDSB, has congratulated all officers and officials in general and catering staff in particular for attaining certification from the FSSAI by extending their full cooperation in the whole exercise.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/fssai-certifies-vaishno-devi-shrine-board-under-bhog-101640381782017.html
25-12-2021||Chandigarh||Readers’ take: A problem begging for an end||Children should be in schools, adults at work!Begging should be discouraged at all costs. Children should be in schools while adults should find jobs to support themselves and their families. If the authorities take adequate steps to put all children in schools and create enough jobs, we can certainly tackle this menace. Education up to class 12 must be free of cost. Schools must also have skill development programmes and offer students part-time jobs, so that children don’t turn to begging to fulfill their basic necessities. Ankush Dubey, via emailTax beggarsDecriminalising begging has only increased the problem. Begging is smart work done by clever artists, many of them able-bodied, who even use infants for evoking sympathy. What we have not done is register begging as a service. By doing so, the state can tax the beggars. Many of them earn better than the common man. This will also help keep a check on illegal activities of kidnapping and maiming of children.Gehna Vaishnavi, PanchkulaHelp them find avenues of growthChild begging is a scourge on an educated society. Lack of database about child beggars is one reason for this unending menace. People also give alms to these children out of sheer lack of awareness or religious beliefs. This makes a child beggar continue on the path, instead of exploring other avenues of growth. Remedial action needs to be taken and solutions found. The administration should have a dedicated child helpline number, where public can report child beggars, so that they can be rehabilitated. Rajeev Kumar, ChandigarhEducation and vocational trainingThe menace can be tackled by giving vocational training to the abled-bodied beggars and creating rehabilitation homes for the old and disabled beggars. With regards to child beggars, they must be educated and encouraged to become self-dependent adults. Capt Amar Jeet, KhararStrict policing There should be strict policing to identify and rehabilitate beggars. They must be thoroughly examined by doctors, introduced to personal and public hygiene, and told about the various policies of government for self-employment. NGOs must be roped in to help them pick-up skills. Retired educators should come forward to teach them moral values and dignity of labor. Ramanjit Kaur, via emailHelp them be self-reliantSupport the poor, but by helping them to get educated and become self-reliant. There are several wealthy families and city that can get together to fund counseling sessions for those who getting into begging. Start by first providing them food and shelter and then win their trust and teach them the right way of living.Shubham Dhiman, ChandigarhStart by working to eradicate povertyTo end begging, start by working to eradicate poverty. Of late, begging has become part of an organised crime. Small shelters have to be made to impart skills to beggars, so that they can get themselves some jobs. They should be made to earn their livelihood by working and not begging. Government and NGOs should look after people who are aged and physically challenged. Vineet Gandhi, ManimajraTrack beggars to identify their originsBegging is not an easy option and many with no family or financial support are compelled by their circumstances to get into begging. Beggars need to be tracked to identify their origin and dealt with accordingly. Those with no financial support should be helped to earn a respectable living by gainful employment. Giving out alms will only add the number of beggars.DS Banati, MohaliBan entry of beggars Many squatters throng the City Beautiful to earn easy money. Residents who are in a habit of buying items at traffic lights boost their morale of not giving up begging. The administration must ban the entry of squatters and a verification check should be made. A shelter should be made for beggars, and they should be imparted education apart from providing some vocational.Abhilasha Gupta, Mohali Society needs to be compassionate While the sudden appearance of beggars at traffic signals is irritating and risky both for the driver and the beggar, they cannot be done away with as the Indian society needs to be compassionate and is happy with the joy of giving. SC Luthra, ChandigarhAuthorities haven’t made enough effortsNow beggars have become omnipresent, they are present around all religious places, bus stops, railway stations, markets and traffic lights. They disturb the traffic, sometimes even cause accidents. Begging is banned in the city, yet it continues unabated as neither the police department, not the administration or municipal corporation has made concerted efforts to end the menace. Kidar Nath Sharma, ChandigarhSociety needs to introspectSeveral measures have been taken over the years to end the menace of begging, but it continues to prevail. We, as a society, must introspect into why the situation prevails. One can often see the destitute trying to eke out a living by selling small products at lightpoints. Many can also be seen living in jhuggis. We is it that some sections of the society are still deprived of a decent. Kundan Lal Sharma, MohaliNo fear of lawBegging is not an old-age scourge but also a curse for mankind. From the past few years, we have been seeing a lot of begging children in the tricity and its outskirts. The recent incident of attack on a cop who was trying to rescue a child beggar shows that people involved in human trafficking have no fear of police or law. Police should strengthen their informer network so that they can keep a close eye on people involved in human trafficking. Sandeep Rawat, ChandigarhNGOs, residents must work togetherThe menace of begging is growing day by day. The administration, NGOs and residents must come together to help beggars get educated and earn a living through employment. Residents also need to form a platform to ensure that the administration doesn’t give up on this campaign.Rajiv Varma, via emailAs responsible citizens, stop giving alms The best way is to abolish the begging is stop giving alms. Police patrolling should be increased in every area to curb the activities of anti-social elements, including human trafficking gangs. Penalise those involved in begging. Provide education opportunities, shelter, healthcare and insurance to the destitute to keep them away from begging. Prabhjot Nagpal, ZirakpurDon’t promote idlersIn Indian mythology ‘daan’ or charity has great significance, and is said to be the path to moksha or salvation. But sadly, in reality, charity only promotes idlers. Begging is a nursery for drug addicts, and criminals. Manjit Singh Johar (retd), ChandigarhA social menaceBegging is not just a menace but crime. Those who are forced into begging are mostly kidnapped children. If begging is to be wiped out of society, administration must not let the beggars roam around the city. Residents should refrain from giving alms. Opinder Kaur Sekhon,ChandigarhA reflection of gap between rich and poorBeggary is a reflection of the divide between the rich and the poor. It also means governments of the day have failed to provide social security to all its citizens. There should be a law to take care of beggars and a minimum social guarantee for food, medical, education and shelter should be provided by the government. After all, they are also humans!Anil Kumar Yadav, ChandigarhNeed clear roadmap to tackle menaceOn one hand, Chandigarh aims to be a smart city, on the other hand, it is unable to deal with the age-old practice of begging. One can find several beggars, many of them minors, at the traffic lightpoints, near shopping centres, religious places and even in the university. Drug and other nefarious activities are also inter-woven with the menace of begging. The administration must chart out a clear roadmap to tackle the problem. It should start by conducting a survey to ascertain the number of beggars in the city, and then work to rehabilitate them. The administration must also crush the mafia running the begging racket. Col RD Singh (retd), Ambala CanttPunish those encouraging beggarsHuman trafficking rackets are not only ruining the future of the children, but also forcing adults and old agers into beggary. Beggars are a common site at traffic junctions, busy markets and religious places. It is due to the laxity of the social welfare and police departments that the menace prevails. Beggars should be put in shelter homes and provided food and essentials. As members of the public, we can play an important role by not entertaining their demands. There should be punishment against giving anything to beggars. Subhash Chugh, via emailNeed a clear cut law on beggingIndia has no clear cut law on begging and seeking alms was common practice. Times have changed and the need of the hour is to ban begging completely as it puts the lives of public at risk. Authorities. with help of NGOs, and social organisations must set up shelter homes for beggars and provide them vocational rehabilitation training to make them self-occupied. Beggars’ children must be provided free education, uniforms and books to make them self-reliant at par with other children.Col TBS Bedi (retd), MohaliProsecute those giving out almsA person will beg only if there is any chance of receiving alms. A beggar cannot survive if no one is giving him anything. What authorities do to curb this scourge is that they catch the beggar but no one catches the person who is paying a beggar. I believe society is the main culprit for this unending practice. To bring this menace to end the easiest and most successful way will be to prosecute/fine the people who are giving alms and supporting the beggars. Gaurav Jain, ChandigarhMonitoring needed24x7 monitoring by traffic police and social welfare department officials will prove helpful in putting an end to this old menace. P Mehta, via emailMenace has acquired enormous proportionsBegging, in our nation, has acquired enormous dimensions as a distasteful profession, having been patronised by unreasonable sanction from citizens. Whatever miserable be one’s plight, an aggrieved person is often shy to beg at public places. We do observe in daily life many physically handicapped persons earning money through whatever work they can perform. It’s not the poor but mischievous hard-work shirkers who beg so blatantly. MPS Chadha, MohaliDonate to NGOs that work for needyResidents must stop giving out alms to beggars, and instead give to NGOs that are known to work for the poor and needy. The government authorities must make sure that each citizens is assured of the basic necessities, so that they are not pushed into poverty. For those, who are already trapped in the problem of beggary, authorities must make efforts to teach them skills that can help them gain employment. Strict policing at public places is also needed to curb beggars.Vijay Malia, ChandigarhAccess to job opportunitiesInitiatives taken by the welfare department have failed to check beggars who can be found in crowded markets, outside places of worship and those who go door -to-door on auspicious days like weddings and birthdays. The worrisome part is they train small children to beg. It is a matter of shame that small girls and transgenders are seen begging in trains. It is important to offer paid jobs to able-bodied beggars. Identifying them and knowing their number requires an exhaustive survey. Non-governmental organisations should come forward to collect ration from the residents and supply it at their shelters. Usha Verma, ChandigarhReader of the weekEducation only way to bring children out of beggary We, as a society, need to have a compassionate outlook towards beggars, most of who enter the trade as a result of extreme poverty. There needs to be an organised and committed campaign to end this menace. Education is the only way to bring children out of clutches of beggary. V K Aggarwal, via emailWhat experts sayOrganised racketBegging in India is an organised racket, carried with the help of local criminals. Children from poor families are kidnapped, maimed and forced into begging. The menace prevails largely due to official apathy. APS Shergill, lawyer, Punjab and Haryana high court Two-pronged approach The dept is adopting a two-pronged approach to address child beggary --educating the masses on ill-effects of giving alms and setting up alternative education/skill building systems to pull families away from beggary. Nitika Pawar, secretary, social welfare department AwarenessMarket associations must put up posters asking customers not to give money to child beggars. Sometimes the beggars also snatch things from customers. But unless the administration and police don’t play a proactive role in implementing the ban, things won’t improve. Neeraj Bajaj, president, Business Promotion Council, Sector 17, Chandigarh Discourage the practice I urge people not to give any money to beggars as it encourages child trafficking. Police must appoint a nodal person for each area and responsibility must be fixed to rescue child. Parents who send children for begging must be penalised and these children must be taught useful skills and enrolled in schools. Harjinder Kaur, CCPCR chairperson RehabilitationPeople move to cities in search of jobs, but due to non-availability of jobs, many are forced to sell or send their children for begging. Covid has also aggravated the miseries of poor families. The authorities must make efforts to rehabilitate such children. Ranjay Vardhan, head, department of sociology, PGGCG-42, Chandigarh||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/readers-take-a-problem-begging-for-an-end-101640381722082.html
25-12-2021||Delhi||Delhiwale: The way we were||Those white houses are gone. See the photo to know how they looked like. This site is now a levelled ground.There used to be a straight row of seven homes. Painted in white, they resembled miniature, single-storey bungalows, like a Lutyens’ Delhi doll house. The residences were symmetric. A cement yard ran along the entire length. Railway tracks ran behind it. The tracks are still there.The houses were part of the so-called railway colony in Gurugram, and were allotted to railway employees. The station is nearby. This afternoon, a group of railway employees are huddled around a table in the station’s backyard. One of them says the houses were razed “around 5-6 months ago”.The housing gave this part of the world a sense of orderliness and also a feel of fine aesthetics. It was as if it were designed to permeate the daily existence of its inhabitants. The soothing simplicity was in dissonance with the chaotic architecture generally encountered in the Delhi region.The island of subdued architectural elegance is now history.During a visit to the area just before the pandemic started in early 2020, this reporter was able to see the houses. It was a sunny winter morning. Many residents were sitting outside on their respective porch.One of them, Vinod Kumar — a “senior technician blacksmith” — had compared the colony to “swarg” (paradise). Each house, he explained, had two rooms, with a porch in the front and a courtyard in the back. Revealing that most dwellers preferred to lounge on the front porch than in the much more private courtyard, Mr Kumar reasoned that “out here, you feel the openness, and time passes quickly as you see people coming and going”.The disappeared houses faced a row of newer (still existing) mustard-green, multi-storey apartment blocks. Gazing towards the flats that morning, Mr Kumar had said that the same kind of white houses had once stood there, too. “Our side also will be demolished to make way for such flats,” he had observed. A part of that prophecy has come true.If you think of it, these multi-storey buildings are able to accommodate more households on the same acres. This afternoon, a woman is standing in one of the lower balconies. She looks surprised at the mention of white houses. “We moved in two months ago… no idea about them.”All isn’t lost, though. One of those seven houses — the first one — is still standing. It’s vacant but intact.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhiwale-the-way-we-were-101640381537975.html
25-12-2021||Chandigarh||Ambala admn to come up with complete tourist circuit||To make Ambala a tourist destination, the district administration has started the documentation work for places of interest and historical significance in the twin towns. As per officials, a complete circuit will be prepared for tourists.Ambala, situated almost in the middle of NH-44, connects the national capital to Amritsar and also shares its border with Punjab, Himachal Pradesh and Chandigarh. Therefore, it is often a stop for travellers, who commute through the twin towns – Cantonment and City, that are full of destinations as old as 400 years.Officials said that till now, six destinations from Cantonment have been selected to add to the directory after the documentation is completed by the authorities concerned. These include St Paul’s Church, Holy Redeemer Church, Rani Ka Talaab, Marthoma Syrian Church, Heritage Mess and Sirhind Club.In the city, places like Old Cloth Market, Guru Gobind Singh Library in Queen Victoria Hall, Navrang Rai Talab and Mahavir Park are expected to make it to the list. Additional deputy commissioner (ADC) Sachin Gupta, who is overseeing the initiative, said, “Projects like Subhash Park, under-construction 1857 war memorial, science centre and other important sites will also be added to the list to create an ecosystem for tourism.”During an event last week, Haryana home minister Anil Vij had said that the directory will help the tourists identify the sites they can visit in terms of their historical importance and specifications.“The list will also be uploaded online, so that foreigners or Indians living abroad could plan their visit to these places easily,” said Vij, who is also the MLA from Ambala.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ambala-admn-to-come-up-with-complete-tourist-circuit-101640381182322.html
25-12-2021||Delhi||All adults in Delhi have taken at least one Covid vaccine jab||All eligible residents of the national capital have received at least one dose of a coronavirus vaccine, a significant achievement for Delhi that comes amid concerns of the Omicron variant of the Sars-CoV-2, and a landmark that experts said may help the city soften the effects of any future Covid-19 surge.In a tweet on Friday, Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal said all of the Capital’s 14.83 million eligible adults have been inoculated with at least the first dose.The chief minister hailed the efforts of the city’s health care and front line workers, who played a key role in achieving this target.“Delhi completes first dose to 100% eligible people - 148.33 lakh. Salute to Doctors, ANMs, Teachers, ASHAs, CDVs and all other Frontline workers. Congratulations to DMs, CDMOs, DIOs and all district functionaries,” Kejriwal tweeted on Friday.Over 10.5 million in Delhi have been completely vaccinated.Delhi has a population of roughly 20 million people, of whom about five million are children, and are still beyond the net of Covid-19 vaccinations. The adult population figures are according to a November estimate of voters in Delhi by the Election Commission.To be sure, Delhi is not the first state or Union territory to cover all its adults with the first dose of a vaccine. Himachal Pradesh, Sikkim and Goa have also administered first doses to all of their adults, among states in the country. Among UTs, Lakshadweep, Andaman and Nicobar Islands, Dadra & Nagar Haveli, Jammu & Kashmir and Chandigarh have earlier hit this milestone.The vaccination milestone for Delhi comes 343 days after the national Covid-19 immunisation programme kicked off on January 16, and coincides with an uptick in the city’s infection caseload over the past few days.Delhi on Friday added 180 cases of Covid-19, the largest single-day spike since June 16, when the city logged 212 infections, showed data from the state government’s daily health bulletin. In the past seven days, the city added an average of 116 cases each day.The fresh infections on Friday came at a test positivity rate of 0.29%, the highest since June 14.The rate of vaccinations in Delhi has picked up significantly since news of the highly transmissible Omicron variant emerged globally on November 25.In the seven days ending November 25, Delhi administered an average of just over 33,420 first vaccine doses. This number went up to nearly 36,800 in the week ending December 2, then shot up to 50,446 seven days later.Roughly two weeks since then, this number has dipped, but likely because the number of unvaccinated residents in the city began to shrink.To be sure, a proportion of these vaccines will have been administered to residents of other cities, especially those in the National Capital Region.The city’s peak of single-day first doses came on June 26, when it administered 172,755 shots, showed data from the CoWin dashboard.So far, over 1.44 million people in the city have been infected with Covid-19, of whom 25,103 have succumbed to the illness, according to state government data.A district immunisation officer said the pace of vaccinations was slow initially because people were concerned about potential side effects, but picked up as these concerns were allayed. “I would like to appeal to those whose second dose is pending to come forward and get it on time,” said the officer.Experts said the complete vaccine coverage among the city’s adults will help check the severity of any future Covid-19 wave, if any.“Vaccines don’t stop any wave. Singapore would not have witnessed such a massive wave of cases despite 100% vaccination. But vaccines check the severity of infections and deaths due to it. Now that Delhi has inoculated 100% population with first dose of Covid vaccine, it can reduce the impact of the next wave and there will be fewer deaths,” said Dr Sanjay Rai, professor, community medicine department at All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/all-adults-in-delhi-have-taken-at-least-one-covid-vaccine-jab-101640380545958.html
25-12-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab govt initiative: 246 cataract operations performed in Mohali so far||Under the “Mukh Mantri Punjab Motia Mukt Abhiyan”, 246 patients suffering from cataract have been operated upon across Mohali district since November 26 and 7,751 people have been screened by eye specialists at government health facilities Civil surgeon Dr Adarshpal Kaur said that under the initiative, 109 operations have been performed at Mohali district hospital, 46 at sub-divisional hospital in Dera Bassi and 91 at sub-divisional hospital in Kharar. Dr Kaur said that to ensure better healthcare facilities to people of the state, the campaign was launched on the instructions of Punjab chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi on November 26 across Punjab. She added that to make the campaign a success, private hospitals have also been made part of this drive, which will continue till December 31. An awareness van is also visiting different places in the district. Camps are being organised in the district as part of the drive, where the eyesight of the people is being thoroughly examined and those found suffering with cataract are being operated upon after a period of 15 days free of cost. “Transportation facility including pick up and drop is also being provided to the people along with the refreshments for those undergoing operations,” said Dr Kaur, while adding that free spectacles are also to be provided to those operated upon. She appealed to the people of the district to come forward and avail full benefit of this initiative.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-govt-initiative-246-cataract-operations-performed-in-mohali-so-far-101640380701866.html
25-12-2021||Delhi||Amit Shah to inaugurate ‘waste-to-art’ park today||Union home minister Amit Shah will inaugurate South Delhi Municipal Corporation’s (SDMC) Bharat Darshan Park in Punjabi Bagh on Saturday.The inauguration, which was initially slated for Friday, was postponed due to technical reasons, said civic officials.SDMC mayor Mukesh Suryan said that it was “a matter of pride that the SDMC has carried forward the amazing concept of waste-to-wealth to provide another attractive park to the people of Delhi”.“SDMC’s ‘Waste to Wonder’ Park, which also incorporates the concept of ‘waste-to-wealth’, has been drawing attention in India and abroad. The newly constructed Bharat Darshan Park will prove a milestone for the SDMC, as several replicas of historical monuments made from waste items and materials are showcased here. ‘Unity in Diversity’ is the theme of the park, where the diversified culture and rich heritage of India are reflected through monuments. Like the Waste to Wonder Park, Bharat Darshan Park will also become a popular tourist spot of Delhi,” he said.He also said that the park is spread over 8.5 acres. There will be replicas of historical monuments such as Qutub Minar, Taj Mahal, Char Minar, Konark Temple in the park. “These monuments have been constructed with scrap materials that were lying in SDMC stores,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/amit-shah-to-inaugurate-waste-to-art-park-today-101640380001928.html
25-12-2021||Chandigarh||Yamunanagar siblings booked for cheating retired cop of ₹7 lakh||Naraingarh police have booked Yamunanagar-based siblings for allegedly duping a retired sub-inspector of ₹7 lakh on the pretext of securing a government job for his son-in-law. The accused have been identified as Aarti Sindhu and her brother, Yogesh Sindhu. The complainant, Ashok, told the police that he had met Aarti near the police headquarters in Panchkula two years ago and she promised to secure a government job for him. “In February this year, I asked her to secure a job for my son-in-law, Vikas, as naib tehsildar. She promised to get it done by August this year for ₹35 lakh. Later, she and Yogesh took ₹8 lakh as advance,” he stated. However, after the time period elapsed, the complainant asked for a refund in September and received ₹1 lakh. “When I asked for the remaining amount, she threatened to implicate me in a false case,” Ashok added. A cheating case has been registered at Naraingarh Police Station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/yamunanagar-siblings-booked-for-cheating-retired-cop-of-7-lakh-101640380103131.html
25-12-2021||Chandigarh||Jammu and Kashmir logs 141 Covid cases, one death; Srinagar reports 58 infections||Jammu and Kashmir reported one death and 141 fresh Covid-19 infections on Friday, an official health bulletin said. Of the total cases, 118 cases and one death was reported in Kashmir valley while the Jammu division saw 23 infections. The union territory reported highest 58 cases in summer capital Srinagar followed by 10 cases in Kupwara and 14 in Jammu. As many as 16 districts saw single digit or zero cases.Srinagar district has the highest number of active cases at 469 followed by Jammu and Baramulla districts with 218 and 161 active cases respectively.The number of patients who were cured in the UT was 142 with active positive cases reaching 1,317.The government’s daily health bulletin also said that 72,949 vaccine doses were administered taking overall doses administered in the UT to 1.792 crores.The overall number of people who have recovered reached 3,34,598 prompting the recovery rate to reach 98.29%. Since the pandemic started, the overall cases in J&K have reached 3,40,434 and the death-toll has reached 4,519.The officials said that 59,477 tests were conducted in the past 24 hours in the UT.The Jammu district has the highest number of 1,156 fatalities followed by Srinagar with 880 deaths. Covid trackerTotal cases: 3,40,434Total recovered patients: 3,34,598Total Deaths: 4519Active Cases: 1317||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/jammu-and-kashmir-logs-141-covid-cases-one-death-srinagar-reports-58-infections-101640380043051.html
25-12-2021||Chandigarh||Ensure strict compliance to Covid norms, chief minister Jai Ram Thakur tells DCs||Chief minister Jai Ram Thakur on Friday directed all deputy commissioners to ensure proper adherence to the Covid-19 norms as the state expects a big tourist rush on Christmas and New Year.He was presiding over a virtual meeting of the district authorities to review the preparedness to tackle the emerging Omicron variant. He said as New Year was approaching, the influx of tourists would increase and, therefore, proper adherence to Covid-appropriate behaviour should be ensured.He directed the deputy commissioners having a high influx of tourists in their districts to take stringent steps to check the spread of the virus. He directed them to increase testing and forming micro-containment zones where Covid positive case is reported in the area. He also asked the deputy commissioners to organise vaccination camps for people coming from other states to contain the spread of the virus.He directed them to check the functionality of PSA plants and the availability of basic amenities in the hospitals along with ensuring proper heating arrangements for patients. He also stressed surveillance of persons coming from foreign countries and contact tracing of such persons in case they reported positive.He said the safety of the people was the foremost priority of the state government and every effort should be made to keep the state safe from the new Covid variant.CM announces ₹164-cr tax relaxations to pvt transportersEarlier in the day, addressing at a press conference at Mandi, the chief minister announced ₹164 crore tax relaxations to private transporters in the state.The CM said the transport sector of the state is the lifeline of development in the difficult hilly terrain and this sector suffered huge losses during lockdowns.He said that although the state is facing a financial crunch, the government has provided relief and assistance to all sectors.He said ₹164-crore relaxation will be given to private bus operators, taxis, maxis, contract carriage buses, autos and school buses with effect from April 1, 2020, to November 30, 2021.He said ₹62-crore relaxation has already been given to this sector in special road tax and token taxes and now the total relaxation, with today’s announcement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ensure-strict-compliance-to-covid-norms-chief-minister-jai-ram-thakur-tells-dcs-101640379997100.html
25-12-2021||Chandigarh||Hizbul militant killed in encounter in Jammu and Kashmir’s Anantnag district||The forces on Saturday claimed to have killed a Hizbul Mujahideen militant in South Kashmir who was responsible for the killing of three BJP workers and sarpanch.The militant has been identified as Shahzad Ahmad Seh of Sehpora, Kulgam.A police spokesman said based on a specific input regarding the presence of a militant in Mominhall village in the Aarwani area of Bijbehara, Anantnag, a joint cordon and search operation was launched by the police, 1RR and 90 battalion of the CRPF.“During the search operation, as the presence of the trapped terrorist got ascertained, he was given ample opportunities to surrender. However, he denied the surrender opportunities and instead fired indiscriminately upon the joint search party which was retaliated leading to an encounter. In the ensuing encounter, one terrorist was killed and his body was retrieved from the site of encounter.”The spokesman said that the killed terrorist was a categorized terrorist linked with Hizbul Mujahideen and was part of groups involved in several terror crime cases, he said.Seh was involved in the killing of police inspector Mohammad Ashraf Bhat in Anantnag in October last year, he said. “He was involved in the killing of three BJP workers at YK-Pora Kulgam in October last year. He was also involved in the killing of a BJP sarpanch and his wife at Lal Chowk Anantnag on August 9 this year,” the spokesman said.The spokesman said he was also involved in the attack on DDC candidate Anees ul Islam Ganie at Sagam, Kokernag, on December 4 last year and in snatching weapon from a constable at Shamispora crossing in the Khudwani area of Kulgam on July 25. Moreover, he was involved in various grenade-lobbing incidents and attacks on security establishments in Anantnag and Kulgam areas.The police said incriminating materials, arms and ammunition, including one AK 47 rifle, 02 AK magazines, 40 AK rounds and a grenade, were recovered from his possession. “All the recovered materials have been taken into case records for further investigation,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/hizbul-militant-killed-in-encounter-in-jammu-and-kashmir-s-anantnag-district-101640379995886.html
25-12-2021||Chandigarh||2 Lashkar militant associates held in Jammu and Kashmir’s Budgam||The police on Friday said that two militant associates affiliated with Lashkar-e-Toiba were arrested from Chadoora, Budgam.Police spokesman said the police along with the 50 RR and the 181 CRPF arrested two terror associates linked with the proscribed terror outfit Lashkar-e-Tobia from the Chadoora area of Budgam.The arrested persons were identified as Imran Majeed Magray and Aqib Amin of Magray.“Incriminating material of LeT and explosive substance, including two hand grenades, 2 AK-47 magazines, 30 live AK-47 rounds, was recovered from the possession of arrested militants,” the spokesman said, adding that during the preliminary investigation, it surfaced that both the arrested terrorist associates have been in touch with LeT commanders and were involved in providing logistics, shelter and transportation of arms and ammunition in the areas of Mochwa, Kralpora, Chattergam, Sathsoo, Nowgam, Chadoora and other adjacent areas of the district. A case has been registered against both persons.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/2-lashkar-militant-associates-held-in-jammu-and-kashmir-s-budgam-101640379994186.html
25-12-2021||Chandigarh||Bribe case: SIT formed to nab absconding Nadaun cop||Following the order from director-general of police (DGP) Sanjay Kundu, the Hamirpur Police have constituted a special investigation team (SIT) to nab the police officer who is absconding after being caught taking a bribe and is also accused of trying to run over vigilance sleuths.In the wake of the incident that happened on Tuesday involving inspector Neeraj Rana, the then station house officer (SHO), Nadaun, the DGP held a video-conference with all the range inspector generals, deputy inspector generals, superintendents of police (SPs), SHOs and other senior officials.“His case details shall be sent to the SP, Economic Offences Wing (EOW), for taking up further with the Enforcement Directorate (ED) for an exemplary action,” said Kundu.He said other SPs, especially Una SP, will help his Hamirpur counterpart in nabbing Rana, who belongs to Una and is in hiding.‘Appoint SHOs on merit’Kundu said SPs should apply due diligence while posting officials at key posts like that of an SHO. The SPs should post SHOs on the basis of merit and professionalism and not on mere political recommendation without checking their credentials, said Kundu“SPs should also carry out a 360-degree review on the working, neutrality, integrity of an official before posting him/her at such a key position. To this end, they may contact the previous SPs of the official concerned,” he said.He directed that police headquarters should create a pool of officials based on their merit, professionalism, integrity and past records which can help SPs in taking an informed decision while posting officials at key posts.He directed that SPs should get drug tests done of doubtful officials, especially those posted on key posts in the narcotics trade-prone areas.The incidentThe officer in question was caught by vigilance sleuths while taking a bribe from a cattle trader on Tuesday. As they were about to nab him, Rana allegedly tried to run over the vigilance sleuths before fleeing in his car.He abandoned his car before disappearing into a jungle. Later, the vigilance team also found heroin in the car.The accused cop has been booked for attempt to murder under Section 307 of the IPC and provisions of the Prevention of Corruption Act and the NDPS Act.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/bribe-case-sit-formed-to-nab-absconding-nadaun-cop-101640379990558.html
25-12-2021||Chandigarh||Amidst Omicron threat, tourists rush to Himachal for festivities||Even as the Omicron threat looms large, tourists are rushing to Himachal in hordes to celebrate Christmas and New Year while throwing all the pandemic norms to the wind. Most hotels in the major tourist towns are full to capacity with an increase in the footfall from neighbouring, Punjab, Haryana, Chandigarh and Delhi. What makes the situation even grave is that the state government hasn’t yet ordered any restriction given Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s Mandi rally on December 27 to mark the Jai Ram Thakur’s four years in office. More than one lakh people are expected to attend the rally which may also trigger a new spurt. “Tourists are rushing to Shimla and other hill resorts. As of yet, no booking has been cancelled, as the state hasn’t yet reported the Omicron variant. The influx is huge as there has been a snow forecast on Christmas in the state,” said Rajender Singh, a hotelier who has units in Shimla, Manali and Kasauli. “We are adhering to the Covid-19 protocol in our hotels and expect a good business in days to come,” he said, admitting that the fear of new variant remains but also people in the state have been fully vaccinated which reduces the chances of infection. Meanwhile, tourists say they were expecting great fun as snowfall would likely occur on the festive days despite the virus threat. While some say they would follow the norms others were of the opinion that they were now fed up with the theory and wanted to enjoy to the full. “We are very excited as there is a snowfall forecast. Yes, there are concerns regarding the Omicron variant but we have taken both the doses of vaccination and would strictly follow whatever norms put in place by the government,” said Vanshika Tiwari, a tourist from Maharashtra. Priyam, a tourist from Nagpur, said he was happy to be in Shimla to enjoy Christmas and New Year. Part of a group of travellers, Priyam said people were fed up with the Covid-19 theory and many several of them have stopped adhering to the norms. Those who are solely dependent on tourism says it is time to earn some extra bucks. “We no more fear the pandemic. We have already suffered a lot and this time around we hope to cover our losses that occurred in the last two years,” said Maqsood, who works as a porter. Meanwhile, chief minister Jai Ram Thakur said that directions have been issued to the authorities to implement the Covid-19 protocol in the state. He said the state has fully vaccinated the 100% legible population of the state and this will help prevent the spread. The Himachal Pradesh tourism industry is worth ₹12,000 crore and contributes 7% to the SGDP besides creating thousands of direct and indirect jobs. Before Covid-19, nearly 2 crore tourists visited Himachal.Covid-19 dealt a blow to the tourism industry in 2020 as the number of visitors dropped to 32 lakh. As per data available with the tourism department, there were about 6,000 registered hotels, homestays and guest houses in the state. In 2019, more than 1.72 crore tourists, including 38,28,76 foreigners, visited the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/amidst-omicron-threat-tourists-rush-to-himachal-for-festivities-101640379989110.html
25-12-2021||Chandigarh||Himachal CM Jai Ram Thakur’s tenure a failure: Congress||The Congress on Friday described chief minister Jai Ram Thakur’s tenure as a complete “failure”.“The government has failed to deliver up to the expectation of people,” said Naresh Chauhan, Congress chief spokesperson. “The government has lost the trust of the people as they want a change now,” said Chauhan in a press conference. He also flayed the BJP for spending a large amount of money on government functions across the state. “The Prime Minister describes Himachal as his second home and we respect his sentiments and feelings, but chief minister Jai Ram Thakur should explain to the people what he got for the state,” said Chauhan, claiming that a majority of the promises that were made in the BJP’s vision document were incomplete. He said Union minister for road transport and shipping Nitin Gadkari announced ₹60,000 crore for national highways in the state but there is nothing on the ground. He had promised to construct 59 highways, but there is nothing.“To attract industries to the state, the first global investors’ meet was organised in the presence of the Prime Minister in 2019 in which investment MoUs worth ₹96,000 crore were signed. The government had announced that it will provide jobs to one lakh people but the reality is otherwise,” said Chauhan.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/himachal-cm-jai-ram-thakur-s-tenure-a-failure-congress-101640379987814.html
25-12-2021||Chandigarh||Farooq Abdullah: Will approach Supreme Court against Delimitation Commission proposals||National Conference president Farooq Abdullah has said they will approach the Supreme Court against the draft proposal of the Delimitation Commission.The commission in its draft proposal had told five associate membersUnion minister Jitendra Singh, NC chief Farooq Abdullah, NC MP Mohammad Akbar Lone, NC MP Hasnain Masoodi and BJP MP Jugal Kishore Sharma on Monday in New Delhi that they have proposed six seats for Jammu and one for Kashmir.They also proposed reserving nine seats for Scheduled Tribes and seven for Scheduled Castes, a first in the union territory.If the proposal is cleared, the total number of poll constituencies will rise from 83 to 90, with 43 in the Jammu region and 47 in Kashmir. In the current state House, Jammu has 37 members and Kashmir has 46.“When we went to the commission, my partner Member of Parliament Hasnain Masoodi put before them (commission) that we have sent a letter which you have not replied in which we have said the matter is pending before the SC, therefore, this exercise you are doing is illegal,” NC president Farooq Abdullah told Karan Thapar in an interview.Abdullah said first of all the chairman of the commission said they haven’t seen the letter. “Probably, the letter has been kept away from them or her,” said Abdullah who was present when associate members were shown draft proposal by the commission in tabulated form.”Abdullah further said: “The chairman of the commission agreed that whatever the SC will say will be binding on us.” “But she said I have the mandate from the government and Parliament and I am fulfilling that mandate. If the SC comes with suggestions, we have to go by the SC verdict,” Abdullah said.The NC president said they are going to the Supreme Court. “We are going to the Supreme Court any way that delimitation commission work is a breach of the SC. We are going to go the way they (commission) are going about it and if they have taken population then Kashmir should get more seats. Why is it that they have given us only one seat, that too in the Kupwara region. What about other places,” Abdullah told Thapar.Abdullah, who is a Parliament member from the Srinagar Lok Sabha seat, said both Srinagar and Jammu have grown and got more seats. “Srinagar in itself has grown so much or in Jammu, there is a place called Gandhi Nagar where the population has grown so much they should have got another seat.”He said there are others who feel there should have been reserved seats for them. “There are so many others like the Kashmiri Pandits feel they should have seats.”The NC president and former chief minister hoped that the SC will do justice to them.“We hope that the SC will do justice. Let’s see what the SC says once it takes its direction then we can take another step,” he said.Farooq Abdullah said the People’s Alliance for Gupkar Declaration (PAGD) had already made it clear that they don’t agree with the decision of the commission.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/farooq-abdullah-will-approach-supreme-court-against-delimitation-commission-proposals-101640379985371.html
25-12-2021||Chandigarh||Gulmarg, upper reaches of Kashmir get light snow, rain; Leh shivers at -6.9°C||Two ski resorts of Pahalgam and Gulmarg recorded cold temperatures in Kashmir as other places witnessed improvement in cold conditions due to overcast weather.Amid light snowfall, the night temperature in most of the weather stations in Kashmir increased after over two weeks of sub-zero temperatures on Thursday, except for the ski resort, Gulmarg, which received light snowfall. Gulmarg and upper reaches in Kashmir observed light snow and rainfall.The night temperatures improved further in Kashmir valley on Friday with summer capital Srinagar recording a temperature of 2.4 °C, climbing above zero for the first time after December 6. During this period the mercury had plunged to a lowest of -6 °C in Srinagar.Chilai Kalan, Kashmir’s harshest over 40-day winter period started on Tuesday amid predictions of approaching weather systems which will bring snow and rain between December 23 and 24 and December 26 and 28.The overcast sky improved night temperatures across J&K union territory and Ladakh owing to the western disturbance.The ski resort of Gulmarg was the closest place in Kashmir recorded a night temperature of -5.1°C, while Pahalgam in south Kashmir recorded a minimum temperature of -1.4 °C. Jammu’s Banihal recorded a minimum night temperature of 3.8 °C. In Ladakh, Leh recorded a minimum temperature -6.9°C, while it was -13.4°C in Dras during the night.MeT director Sonam Lotus said another snow spell of greater intensity is likely between December 26 and 27. “Expect, widespread light to moderate snow in plains of Kashmir, rain in Jammu and moderate snow at scattered places of Ladakh, especially Kargil -Zanskar region. Light snow is also possible at some places in Leh district, mainly over higher reaches,” Lotus said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/gulmarg-upper-reaches-of-kashmir-get-light-snow-rain-leh-shivers-at-69c-101640379983648.html
25-12-2021||Chandigarh||UGC pay scales row: University, college teachers to meet Rahul Gandhi in Delhi on Dec 31||A delegation of the Punjab Federation of University and College Teachers’ Organisation (PFUTO) will meet Congress leader Rahul Gandhi in New Delhi on December 31, over non-implementation of UGC pay scales in Punjab. On December 28, the teachers will assemble at Congress Bhawan in Sector 15 and urge Punjab Congress president Navjot Singh Sidhu to accompany them to meet Gandhi.This decision was taken after the Punjab government failed to implement the 7th pay commission and withdraw the decision to delink UGC scales for university and college teachers at the recently held cabinet meeting.PFUCTO have also decided to allow the conduct of exams for students who have internship offers and will be adversely affected due to postponement of end semester exams. They will also make an exemption for the conduct of PhD viva-voce examination.Meanwhile, Panjab University Teachers Association (PUTA) held a protest in front of the administrative block in PU on Friday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ugcpay-scales-row-university-college-teachers-to-meet-rahul-gandhi-in-delhi-on-dec-31-101640379683600.html
25-12-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh MC elections: Disparity in facilities available to voters at EWS, urban booths||Voters at rehabilitation colonies complained of inadequate facilities at polling booths set up for the Chandigarh municipal corporation (MC) elections on Friday, even as necessary facilities were available at those in urban areas.At the polling booths of Mauli Jagran, which were at the community centre and Government Model High School, there were no wheelchairs or volunteers present.Paaro Devi, an octogenarian, was seen walking gingerly towards the poll booth, as she was held by two others. As she walked back, she had to sit on the footpath to catch her breath. Krishna Devi, her daughter-in-law, expressed disappointment over non-availability of facilities for the elderly. A few minutes later, a youth was seen holding his grandfather and taking him to cast his vote. He couldn’t even complete his walk till the gate of the government school and sat as he lost his balance.The scenario was different at urban sectors, where every facility was provided. At the polling stations in Sector 36, wheelchairs were provided as required and priority was given to elderly. There were similar arrangements at Government Girls Model Senior Secondary School in Sector 18.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-mc-elections-disparity-in-facilities-available-to-voters-at-ews-urban-booths-101640379022217.html
25-12-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh MC elections: Residents of newly-included villages vote for change||Residents of newly-included villages under the jurisdiction of the municipal corporation (MC), voted for the first time in civic body election on Friday, with the hope to get basic amenities at par with the rest of Chandigarh. The 13 villages — Behlana, Raipur Khurd, Raipur Kalan, Makhan Majra, Daria, Mauli Jagran, Kishangarh, Kaimbwala, Khuda Ali Sher, Khuda Jassu, Khuda Lahora, Sarangpur and Dhanas — were taken over by the civic body in December 2018, after which the number of wards in MC were increased from 26 to 35 by the UT administration, solely to incorporate the,. Unlike urban polling station, long queues were seen since morning and “change” remained the driving force for the people to come out in large numbers. There are 22 villages, including these 13 villages, that fall within MC limits now and have about 1.24 lakh voters. Though not openly, but residents of these villages said that they have the year-long farmer protests in mind. “Nothing much seemed to change ever since we were included under MC, but I am hopeful that we may get some respite from the choked drains that overflow on the narrows lanes of the village,” said Satnam Singh, a resident of Sarangpur village. Dhanas resident Jitender Kumar, said, “Cattle dung is dumped all over the village, and we talk of improving Swacchata rankings. I am hoping to get respite from this.” Raj Kumar of Behlana, “I voted for resolution of issues like low water pressure and poor condition of roads. At the same time, the images of protesting framers are still very fresh.” Deepak of Daria, said, “As one walk into the village, the first thing they notice is heaps of garbage all over and poor sanitation. This weighed on my mind.” 
25-12-2021||Chandigarh||Man, sister booked for duping retired Ambala cop||The police on Friday registered a case against Yamunanagar-based man and his sister for allegedly duping a retired sub-inspector (SI) in getting a government job for his son-in-law. The complainant, Ashok, told the police that Aarti Sindhu met him near police headquarters in Panchkula two years ago and promised to get a government job. “In February this year, I asked her to provide a job to my son-in-law Vikas as naib tehsildar. She said it will be done in lieu of ₹35 lakh. Later, she and her brother Yogesh Sindhu took documents and we gave them ₹8 lakh as advance,” he said in his police complaint. Later, he sought refund in September but received only ₹1 lakh, he further said. “When I asked for the rest of the amount, she threatened to implicate me in a false case,” Ashok added. A case was registered under sections 406, 420 and 120-B of the IPC at the Naraingarh police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/man-sister-booked-for-duping-retired-ambala-cop-101640377702939.html
25-12-2021||Other||Channi playing cheap politics on Ludhiana blast: Sukhbir||Jagraon/Moga Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) president Sukhbir Singh Badal on Friday challenged Punjab chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi to either give evidence linking the Ludhiana bomb blast to his political rivals’ or apologise to the public for playing cheap politics. “Channi should not play politics on such a sensitive issue, as this could destroy peace and communal harmony in the state,” he told media persons after addressing a rally in support of SR Kaler in Jagraon and Baldev Singh Manuke in Nihal Singh Wala on Friday. On Thursday, at a rally in Mullanpur Dakha, the CM had pointed fingers at Akali leader Bikram Singh Majithia for the Ludhiana blast. Channi had asked the gathering to question as to why these incidents had happened after Majithia’s booking in a drugs case. Retorting to this, Sukhbir on Friday said that it did not behove the CM to make such allegations, even after he had registered a false case against him (Majithia). “It seems Channi has lost his mental balance. In case he has any evidence linking any Akali leader with any such heinous crime, he should make the evidence public immediately. If he cannot do that, then he should issue a public apology for trying to politicise the tragedy,” Sukhbir said, adding that five more blasts had taken place in the state over the past four months. He said the CM must give a status report of the probe into all these incidents. “It is clear that the government has been caught napping. It has been busy trying to frame its political rivals and given a field day to anti-national forces to disturb the state’s peace,” he alleged. Warning officers that all false cases would be probed by a commission, if the SAD-BSP alliance government was voted to power, action would also be initiated against those who were responsible for filing the false cases. He also accused Channi and Punjab home minister Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa of not taking the recent sacrilege bids seriously. In Moga, he alleged that the Congress government had done nothing in Punjab except politicising sacrilege and drug issue. “Nothing new has come up in Punjab over the past five years. Navjot Singh Sidhu is demanding capital punishment for culprits of the sacrilege incident. I am daring him to demand it for the ‘Gandhi’ family; Jagdish Tytler and Sajjan Kumar.”Sacrilege bid a Cong conspiracy: ChandumajraPatiala Senior vice-president of the Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) and former MP Prem Singh Chandumajra has alleged that the sacrilege attempts at the Golden Temple at the Ludhiana bomb blast was a deep-rooted conspiracy of the Congress party. “The Congress is trying to create chaos and distract people’s attention from real issues. The sacrilege attempt is another example of the party’s conspiracy,” he alleged, adding, “The SIT constituted by the state government, regarding the Darbar Sahib incident was not acceptable to the SAD, therefore the incident should be investigated by a sitting judge of the high court,” he claimed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/channi-playing-cheap-politics-on-ludhiana-blast-sukhbir-101640377701858.html
25-12-2021||Gurugram||Cops ensure peace during Friday namaz in Gurugram amid conflict on prayers||Namaz was offered peacefully for the first time in the past several months despite attempts by vigilantes to disrupt prayers at some places in Gurugram, which has been at the centre of a bitter conflict over Friday prayers offered in the open.Muslim groups, however, congregated at only six public places that were jointly identified by Hindu-right wing groups and Imam Council of Gurgaon. A group of people did try to disrupt the namaz congregation near Shankar Chowk, Udyog Vihar, and Tau Devi Lal Park in Sector 22, but were turned away by police. Police also detained some right-wing group members, who were let go after the situation was under control. Rajiv Yadav, assistant commissioner of police, said that they controlled the situation, did not let anyone create any ruckus, and that namaz was offered peacefully. Hindu right-wing groups have been protesting against Friday namaz in open public spaces in Gurugram for the last three years. In 2018, the administration designated 37 sites for Muslims to perform the Friday prayers. However, last month, the number of sites was cut down to 20 after members of the right-wing groups and locals continued to protest and disrupt prayers. Muslims, however, have maintained that they were forced to use public spaces since there were not enough mosques in the city. On December 10, Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar had said offering namaz at public places cannot be tolerated, even as the district administration withdrew permission for Friday namaz at 20 designated sites amid protests by members of Hindu outfits who parked vehicles and organised programmes to prevent Muslims from offering namaz. Meanwhile, a group led by Kulbhushan Bhardwaj, legal advisor to Sanyukt Hindu Sangharsh Samiti (SHSS), an umbrella organisation of Hindu bodies leading the protests against namaz in open spaces, filed two separate complaints at the Sector 29 and Udyog Vihar police stations demanding a complete ban on Friday prayers in open areas. “Chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar has given a statement in the assembly saying no namaz will be allowed in open areas. Earlier in Gurugram, the CM had said that namaz in public will not be tolerated. Police and administration should work in view of these statements,” said Kulbhushan Bharadwaj, adding that in his view namaz in open area was a means of “jihad” and a show of strength. Unlike the past two weeks, when Muslims gathered at multiple designated places (which were later withdrawn by the Haryana government) to offer prayers, this Friday they come together at only six places -- two spots in Udyog Vihar, Sector 42-Golf Course Road, Sector 40, Sector 69, and Sector 29.Gurugram district has around 500,000 Muslims, of whom around 150,000 offer namaz on Fridays, said officials.A small group of Muslims gathered in the morning in an open area at Sector 40, but were asked to return by the police. Some Muslim groups claimed that the land belongs to them, but failed to produce papers to prove that, even as some locals contended that the land was reserved for the construction of school. Mufti Ahmad Salim Qasmi — president of the Gurugram unit of Jamiat Ulama and member of Gurgaon Muslim counsil — said that they have been offering namaz at the Sector 40 spot for the past two weeks. “The place has a makbara (tomb) and in our records it is a kabristan (graveyard). Today we had no paper, we will check with the revenue officials and verify the land records,” said Qasmi, adding that they don’t want any confrontation. Praveen Yadav, a member of the Sanyukt Hindu Sangharsh Samiti, who has been leading the protest against Friday namaz in Sirhaul, Sector 37, Sector 22 and Udyog Vihar, said nobody will be allowed to offer prayers in the open across the city. “Even after the CM announced the authorities are still not taking any action against those who are coming to offer namaz in public. The matter has been under control because of us as we are still giving chances but now this is getting too much and we will not let them enter parks and public spaces,” he said. Altaf Ahmad, spokesperson of the Gurgaon Muslim Council, who approached the apex court on the namaz issue last week, said the intention of right-wing group was not just to stop Juma Nama (Friday namaz) in Gurugram but to remove the Muslim identity altogether from public places. He said that (SHSS) president Mahaveer Bharadwaj was emboldened after returning back from a “Dharma Sansad” in Haridwar (against which cases alleging hate speech have been filed), and alleged that he was calling for a conversion of Muslims to Hindus.“Could a similar thing be tolerated if Muslims or any other minority community would have given a call for conversion?” he asked.Bhardwaj called the allegations “baseless”. “We will continue to fight this issue and not let anyone offer namaz in the open, apart from identified sites which are yet to be decided,” he said. 
25-12-2021||Chandigarh||Haryana offers incentives on digital payment of power bills||Switch over to digital mode of payment of electricity bills and get monetary incentive of ₹20. That’s the scheme the Uttar Haryana Bijli Vitran Nigam (UHBVN) has started for rural consumers on the lines of urban areas, an official spokesperson said. The key objective of this scheme is to encourage rural consumers to make digital payments as part of the ‘Mhara Gaon Jagmag Gaon Yojana’ under which more than 75 per cent villages of the state are being supplied 24-hour power. The first digital payment by rural consumers will fetch them ₹20 as incentive and making digital payment of electricity bill up to ₹2,000 an incentive amount of 0.5 per cent of the bill amount (up to a maximum of ₹10) will be given. Apart from this, an incentive amount of ₹50 will be given for digital payment of 6 consecutive bills by the consumer. Panchayats of villages having more than 90 per cent electricity bill payment and more than 90 per cent of them through digital medium will be honoured by the corporation by giving an amount of ₹2 lakh, which can be spent on development works of the village. From each sub-division, five consumers would be selected for making digital payments on quarterly basis and each consumer would be awarded an amount of ₹2,100. The consumers will be selected by lottery system in the presence of the sub-divisional officer at the village school/chaupal/panchayat ghar or any other public place.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/haryana-offers-incentives-on-digital-payment-of-power-bills-101640377521835.html
25-12-2021||Other||Non-govt aided colleges in Punjab condemn govt interference||Chandigarh The Non-Government Colleges Managements Federation of Punjab and Chandigarh (NGCMF) on Friday condemned, what it claimed, was unnecessary interference of the state government’s higher education department in the working of aided colleges. NGCMF added that it had decided, in principle, not to invite government nominees in the meeting of management committee, as the department had proposed. “The new proposals are highly condemnable and DPI and the education department are announcing decisions without any consultation with the stakeholders, which are managements of these colleges,” said general secretary of the NGCMF, SM Sharma, adding that private aided colleges were imparting education to 80% of the state’s students.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/nongovt-aided-colleges-in-punjab-condemn-govt-interference-101640377461878.html
25-12-2021||Chandigarh||Haryana imposes night curfew, curbs on gatherings from Jan 1 amid Omicron concerns||Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar said on Friday that from January 1 the movement of public from 11pm to 5am will be strictly banned and gatherings of more than 200 people will not be allowed in public places and in other programmes amid rising concerns over the new Covid-19 variant. In view of the possibility of increasing cases of Omicron, the state government has already announced to ban entry of people in public places etc from January 1 unless they are fully vaccinated against the coronavirus. Presiding over a Covid-19 review meeting on Friday, Khattar said special focus will be on ensuring vaccination of all eligible people.State health minister Anil Vij said that Haryana recorded more than 2.61 lakh vaccinations against Covid-19 on Thursday, which is 1 lakh more than the average daily vaccination of about 1.5 lakh. He said that this happened a day after the state government banning the entry of people without second dose to public places from January 1. Vij shared the information in a series of tweets on the micro-blogging site and added that the vaccination drives will continue in the state on holidays as well. Till Friday, the cumulative coverage of the Covid-19 vaccination in Haryana was 3,23,16,894, which included 1,93,72,737 (94%) first doses and 1,29,44,157 (63%) second doses.On Friday, Haryana health department administered 2,96,375 jabs of which 79,447 were first dose.The restrictions Night movement will be strictly restricted from 11 pm to 5am. In indoor and open spaces, gatherings of up to 50 per cent of the hall/area capacity will be allowed with a ceiling of maximum 200 and 300 persons respectively subject to Covid-appropriate behavior and social distancing. It will be the responsibility of the organisers of events to ensure that only fully vaccinated persons attend the events organised by them. In all public offices and facilities, only fully vaccinated persons will be allowed to enter from January 1||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/haryana-imposes-night-curfew-curbs-on-gatherings-from-jan-1-amid-omicron-concerns-101640377281746.html
25-12-2021||Dehradun||Uttarakhand to transfer money to Class 10, 12, students to buy tablets||Dehradun: The Uttarakhand cabinet on Friday evening cleared a proposal to deposit money in bank accounts of eligible Class 10 and Class 12 students through Direct Benefit Transfer (DBT) to buy tablets. The scheme will cost the exchequer over ₹ 190 crore annually.The cabinet also passed a proposal to publish bilingual books in Garhwali, Kumaoni, Jaunsari, Gurmukhi, Bangla language for Class 1 to Class 5, cabinet minister and government spokesperson Subodh Uniyal said after the cabinet meeting.Uniyal said the cabinet chaired by chief minister Pushkar Sigh Dhami cleared 41 proposals.The cabinet has approved freetransfer of 11.350 hectare of state land for the use of Army (119, Infantry Bridge Group) in village Gunji in Pithoragarh to the defence ministry. He said the cabinet also approved ₹ 5 crore for Kotdwar Medical College in the current financial year.Uniyal said other proposals passed in the cabinet meeting included 3% additional dearness allowance to state employees. amendment in the Uttarakhand Electronic Media Advertisement Rules, 2015, amendment in the Uttarakhand Medical Education Rules 2021, approval for setting up a separate branch under horticulture department for maintenance in Raj Bhavan and chief minister’s residence, the high court in Nainital, Vidhan Sabha and Secretariat premises, revised Uttarakhand (Uttar Pradesh Narcotic Drugs Rules, 1986) Rules, 2021, establishment of a sports university in the state and transferring money to students of classes 1 to class 8 for purchase of shoes and bags. The cabinet also approved Uttarakhand Ayurvedic Yoga and Naturopathy Assistant Services Rules, 2021, amendment in Rehabilitation Policy 2011 for rehabilitation of disaster affected families, Uttarakhand Sanskrit Education Rules, 2021, allotment of land for the proposed traffic town plan in Udham Singh Nagar’s Rudrapur, establishment of Vishwa Bharati Central University Campus at Gurudev Rabindranath Tagore Top in Nainital Ramgarh and reconstitution of the committee constituted to review the rates of water charges and sewerage charges for the consumers in the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/dehradun-news/uttarakhand-to-transfer-money-to-class-10-12-students-to-buy-tablets-101640377103186.html
25-12-2021||Chandigarh||Need to think about many factors before I decide on joining politics: Harbhajan||New Delhi: After bringing the curtains down on his cricket career, veteran off-spinner Harbhajan Singh on Friday said he is not averse to joining politics but would like to put in a lot of thought before taking a final decision on such a move. Recently, chief of Congress’ Punjab unit and Harbhajan’s former India teammate Navjot Singh Sidhu posted a picture with him on Twitter and captioned it “picture loaded with possibilities”. This led to speculation of him joining the party. The cricketer said that he hasn’t yet taken a call on the matter. “Frankly speaking, I don’t know what’s in store for me. I just want couple of days to figure out in which direction I would like to move. Yes, I want to give back to society,” Harbhajan told PTI in an interview when asked about his future plans. “If I join politics, how and in what form, I need to figure those things out as main aim is to help people if I at all take the plunge,” he added. While he didn’t want to speak about it openly, but people in the know said that there is very little chance that he will be fight the Punjab state assembly elections because of some cricketing and media commitments that would keep him busy. The feisty former player said he would not want his association with the game to end completely with retirement. “As far as cricket is concerned, I will remain associated with the game. I am open to coaching, mentoring IPL sides, may be play a bit of veteran’s cricket,” he said. There is a high possibility that Harbhajan might work as a mentor with Kolkata Knight Riders or Mumbai Indians, where he had 10 eventful years as a cricketer. He is also working on his autobiography, which will be hitting the stands in the next six months. “Oh yes, I have nearly completed my autobiography. It would be out in next six months and it’s my tell-all story as to how I have seen Indian cricket as an insider. Hope people love that book as much as they loved me.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/need-to-think-about-many-factors-before-i-decide-on-joining-politics-harbhajan-101640377101770.html
25-12-2021||Other||In Kejriwal’s five promises for state, security, policing and tackling drugs||Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) supremo and Delhi chief minister Arwind Kejriwal on Friday gave five guarantees for providing peaceful atmosphere and eradicate drugs in Punjab.“Our first step will be to ensue corruption-free recruitment of police officers in the state. Efficient and honest police officers will be given important postings so that a peaceful atmosphere is created,” he said, addressing a rally at Hanuman Chowk in Gurdaspur. He claimed there will be no interference of any MLA or political leader in the working of the state police.“Copies of FIRs registered in police stations will not be sent to the houses of the MLAs concerned. Former IG Kunwar Vijay Pratap Singh had conducted probe in Bargari sacrilege incident, but his report was not taken seriously. If he was allowed to work without any interference and with honesty, there would have been no more incidents of sacrilege in Punjab. Honest police officers are not given important postings,” Kejriwal alleged.As his second promise, Kejriwal said all important cases, including Bargari sacrilege and the cases of bomb blasts, will be probed thoroughly. As his third promise, Kejriwla claimed that the border security will be intensified.“We will protect the border so that no terrorist would enter in the state. We will also ensure that there would be no smuggling of drugs from across the border,” he said.“We will provide the best technology to the Border Security Force (BSF) and the Punjab police to tackle the threat of drones being used for smuggling of narcotics and weapons from across the border. During our government’s tenure, the BSF and police will not face any problem while gunning down the drones,” Kejriwal said, adding that his 5th promise was the creation of a separate police force to protect all gurdwaras, deras, temples and masjids of Punjab.“I was saddened after hearing the news of Ludhiana bomb blast. Why do such incidents happen before elections. Those who committed sacrilege in 2015 are still roaming freely and no justice has been done in the past more than five years. If the masterminds of 2015 sacrilege had given strict punishment, there would be no incident of sacrilege,” he claimed.He claimed that if voted to power, the AAP government would free the state of the drug menace in six months. “If people want good schools in Punjab, they should vote for us. Teachers of Punjab also want to change the atmosphere of Punjab schools, but the government is not supportive.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/in-kejriwal-s-five-promises-for-state-security-policing-and-tackling-drugs-101640377044204.html
25-12-2021||Chandigarh||One killed, three injured in factory blast in Hisar||A 38-year-old worker was killed and three others were injured in an explosion in a chemical factory in HIsar’s industrial area in the wee hours of Friday, police said.The deceased was identified as Anarjeet, a native of Bihar. Kishan Lal, 50, Pawan, 23 and Dinesh, 28, sustained injuries and are undergoing treatment at a hospital in Hisar.Factory owner Sandeep Modi said the incident took place when the workers were unloading chemical drums from a truck.“One of the drums got leaked, following which an explosion took place,” he added.Hisar police spokesman Vikas Kumar said, “The victim’s post-mortem examination has been conducted and we have started an investigation into the matter.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/one-killed-three-injured-in-factory-blast-in-hisar-101640376981678.html
25-12-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab polls: AAP announces list of 18 more candidates||Chandigarh : The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) on Friday released a list of 18 candidates, taking the total number of nominees named so far for the upcoming election in Punjab to 58. Of the 18 candidates, six have been repeated from the party’s line-up in 2017. They are Master Jagsir Singh from Bhucho Mandi assembly seat, Sajjan Singh Cheema from Sultanpur Lodhi, Dalbir Singh Tong from Baba Bakala, Jaswinder Singh from Attari, former state convener Dr Balbir Singh from Patiala Rural and Harjot Singh Bains from Anandpur Sahib. Jagsir Singh had lost to his Congress rival in the Bhucho Mandi constituency in the previous election narrowly by 645 votes. He had polled 50,960 votes and has been repeated from the same seat. Tong was also the runner-up in Baba Bakala with 39,378 votes. Dr Balbir had taken on former chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh in Patiala in 2017 and was a distant second with 20,179 votes. This time, he has been fielded from Patiala Rural where local government minister and veteran leader Brahm Mohindra is the sitting MLA. Cheema, a former basketball player and Arjuna awardee, was third in Sultanpur Lodhi with 26% of the total votes polled. Similarly, Harjot Bains had contested from Sahnewal and came third with 39,570 votes, but he will contest from Anandpur Sahib this time. Jaswinder was also a distant third in Attari with 22,558 votes. The other candidates in Friday’s list are Pandit Brahm Shankar Jimpa from Hoshiarpur seat, Prem Kumar from Phillaur, Kuldeep Singh Dhaliwal from Ajnala, Sarwan Singh Dhun from Khemkaran, Ashok ‘Pappi’ Prasher from Ludhiana Central and Gurpreet Singh Banawali from Sardulgarh. Jagdeep Goldy Kamboj has been fielded from Jalalabad from where state chief Bhagwant Mann had contested against SAD chief Sukhbir Singh Badal. Kulwant Singh Bazigar is the party candidate from Shutrana, Harminder Singh Sandhu from Chabbewal, Santosh Kataria from Balachaur, Amolak Singh from Jaitu and Amritpal Singh Sukhanand from Bagha Purana. The state elections are due early next year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-polls-aap-announces-list-of-18-more-candidates-101640376921808.html
25-12-2021||Chandigarh||Perform in Delhi before promising the moon in Punjab: CM to Kejri||PATHANKOT/HOSHIARPUR : Punjab chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi on Friday dared Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) supremo Arvind Kejriwal to perform in Delhi before promising the moon in Punjab.Addressing the gathering after dedicating a high-level bridge from Talwara Jatta to Simbli Gujran on Friday, the CM said the AAP leader is eyeing the wealth of Punjab due to which he is building castles in the air to attract people. He dared Kejriwal that before rolling out bundles of lies before Punjabis, he must announce cheap power and petrol to residents of Delhi on line with what Punjab government has done. He announced a medical college on 32 acres in Pathankot, besides merging Hindu Cooperative Bank with other cooperative banks. The CM also announced to approve ₹120 crore for an elevated road in Pathankot. Govt will erase curse of drugs from state: Channi Meanwhile, addressing a gathering at Dholbaha in Hoshiarpur, the CM said that the Badals, BJP, former chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh and AAP leader Arvind Kejriwal patronised the drug trade in the state. He said that while in power the Badals, BJP and Captain shielded the accused of drug trade whereas Kejriwal backstabbed the Punjabis by supporting the drug mafia when he tendered an unconditional apology to Akali leader Bikram Singh Majithia. He said his government would erase the curse of drugs from state for which the process had already been set in motion. He laid the foundation stone of Maharana Pratap Government College. He announced a grant of ₹10 crore for the development of the Sham Chaurasi assembly segment. nfrastructure at Ram Leela ground, Hariana.CM announces nursing college at Bundala The CM on Friday Jalandhar announced a nursing college to be constructed at Jalandhar’s Bundala, the ancestral village of communist leader Harkishan Singh Surjeet.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/perform-in-delhi-before-promising-the-moon-in-punjab-cm-to-kejri-101640376682286.html
25-12-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab polls: Cong screening committee to seek suggestions from members individually||Chandigarh : The Congress screening committee, constituted for the selection of candidates for the upcoming elections in Punjab, has decided to seek suggestions from its members one by one, raising eyebrows in party circles. All India Congress Committee (AICC) general secretary Ajay Maken, who heads the screening committee, told the panel members present in the meeting held in Delhi on Friday night to give their suggestions individually in a day or two, party leaders familiar with the development said. Punjab Congress president Navjot Singh Sidhu and state campaign committee chairman Sunil Jakhar and some central leaders were among those who attended the meeting, whereas chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi and Punjab affairs in-charge Harish Chaudhary were not present. Chaudhary said the panel would meet the members one by one and he was not supposed to be there in today’s meeting. The meeting held in the party’s ‘war room’ at 15, Gurdwara Rakabganj Road, was wound up quickly. “We brainstormed on the strategy. This process will carry on. Nothing has been decided on seats so far,” Maken told reporters after the meeting. Though panel members were tight-lipped on the reasons behind the move to meet leaders one by one to seek their suggestions on ticket allocation, a party leader said there was something amiss, indicating that this could be linked to internal feud in the party. Both Channi and Sidhu are not on the same page on several issues.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-polls-cong-screening-committee-to-seek-suggestions-from-members-individually-101640376442087.html
25-12-2021||Gurugram||Gurugram residents can now apply for property ID creation at trade licence camps||People will now also be able to apply for creating a new property ID in trade licence camps set up by the Municipal Corporation of Gurugram (MCG) in various market areas, a release issued by the civic body said on Friday. A direction in this regard was issued to all the zonal taxation officers (ZTOs) by MCG commissioner Mukesh Kumar Ahuja, too.For creating a property ID, a resident has to visit MCG offices in sectors 34 or 42, or the Old MCG office opposite Civil Hospital.The schedule of trade licence camps to be held in the coming days has also been released and an applicant can apply for a property ID creation, regardless of the area or zone the camp falls in.“These special camps will be organised in different areas from 11am to 5pm according to the scheduled date. Applications can be made for new property ID of any zone in trade licence camps. The objective of the MCG is to provide better facilities to the citizens in a simple manner. No citizen should be compelled to visit places for such facilities. Clear instructions have been issued to the ZTOs to ensure that the facilities are made available to the public in an uninterrupted and easy manner,” said Ahuja.According to the MCG officials, the special camps will be held on Saturday at Community Centre in Sector 10A, Global Foyer Mall in Palam Vihar, ILD Trade Centre in Sector 47, and Central Arcade near Sahara Mall on the MG Road. On Sunday, the camps will be held at Esplanade Mall in Sector 37C, Global Foyer Mall in Palam Vihar, and Gold Souk Mall in Sector 43. On Monday, the camps will be held at the HSVP market in Sector 31 and MGF Mehrauli Road. On December 29, the camp will take place at the sector 46 HSVP market; Eros City Square Centre in Sector 50 on December 31; and Ninex City Mart in Sector 49 on January 3 next year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/gurugram-residents-can-now-apply-for-property-id-creation-at-trade-licence-camps-101640376267659.html
25-12-2021||Chandigarh||Rijiju visits Ludhiana court blast site, asks Punjab govt to act responsibly||Ludhiana:Union law and justice minister Kiren Rijiju on Friday visited the Ludhiana district court complex that was rocked by a bomb blast on Thursday and said the Centre and the state are working together to ensure strong action against domestic and foreign elements trying to disrupt peace and harmony. Rijiju said central and state agencies are already conducting an in-depth probe into the incident that left one person dead and six injured, prompting the Punjab government to declare a high alert. Police suspect that the man killed in the blast on the second-floor washroom was trying to assemble or plant the explosive device. “I had a detailed meeting with the law enforcement agencies trying to probe the case and we shall be reaching a conclusion in the case soon. I have not come here due to any political reasons but purely to convey a message to the people of Punjab that we are really worried and the incident is being thoroughly probed,” he said. He also conveyed empathy and support of Prime Minister Narendra Modi to the blast victims and the people of Punjab. Rijiju said he had spoken to Punjab chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi and it was decided that the central and state agencies will jointly probe the matter. The Centre and the state should have one voice on such sensitive issues, Rijiju said. In reply to a question that some political leaders in poll-bound Punjab were speaking in different voices on this incident, Rijiju said, “It is unfortunate, we are responsible people. We should speak responsibly. Politics should be the last resort.” Rijiju added that such an unfortunate incident should not be diluted with politics. “We should not spin other issues around an incident of such grave nature,” he said, while referring to the statement made by the CM on Thursday that Akali leader Bikram Singh Majithia could be behind the blast. Rijiju was accompanied by Union minister of state Som Prakash and National Commission for Scheduled Castes chairperson Vijay Sampla. They also met the injured blast victims in hospital. Rijiju also held an interaction with the district and sessions judge and lawyers regarding the security arrangements and said that the security system in courts across the country will be revamped. He said the safety and security of the judiciary and judicial complexes is the central government’s top priority. Review committees are already in place, said the minister, adding that he would also hold talks with the Chief Justice of India.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/rijiju-visits-ludhiana-court-blast-site-asks-punjab-govt-to-act-responsibly-101640376204771.html
25-12-2021||Gurugram||Remove ads by Monday or FIRs to be registered, Gurugram civic body to violators||Violators have been given time till Monday to remove illegal hoardings and advertisements across the city, otherwise an FIR would be registered against them, officials of the Municipal Corporation of Gurugram (MCG) said on Friday.According to the Haryana Municipal Corporation Advertisement Byelaws 2018, it is mandatory for a person to take permission from the MCG to display any type of advertisement, hoardings, and banners in the city.MCG additional commissioner Dr Vaishali Sharma, who issued the three-day deadline, said that there is a provision under the Haryana Prevention of Defacement of Property Act, 1989, for registering an FIR against violators, besides imposing heavy fines.“A special campaign will be run by the MCG against illegally placed advertisements, hoarding boards, and banners, starting this Monday. Those displaying illegal advertisements have been given three days by the MCG to remove their advertisements. After this, action will be taken to remove illegal advertisements, and violators will be fined and FIRs will be registered against them,” said Sharma.The Haryana Prevention of Defacement of Property Act, 1989, carries a fine of up to ₹10,000 and imprisonment for up to six months.The additional commissioner said that illegally placing advertisement material on public property, electric poles, public walls, and roadsides is a punishable offence and they not only make the city look dirty but also obstruct the view of traffic signals and cause a distraction while driving.“The entire approval process for advertisements is online. Those wishing to display advertisements can apply for it by visiting the outdoor media management portal on MCG’s official website www.mcg.gov.in,” said Sharma.MCG officials also said that on average a one-kilometre stretch of road in the city has at least 50-60 illegal advertisements. They further said that the rationale behind the drive is to also increase the civic body’s annual revenue through the issuance of licenses for displaying advertisements.Last year in December, the MCG had cleared over 1,600 illegal advertisements and registered FIR against 80 people for defacement in a three-day drive.“Most hoardings, advertisements bear the contact number either on the front or on the back of the poster. Through this, we track down the violators and take action against them. If we find a repeat offender then we send an email to the closest police station to register an FIR against the person, otherwise, first-time offenders have to pay fines to the MCG,” said a senior MCG official privy to the matter.Last month, the MCG had prepared an action plan to tackle the issue of illegal advertisements in the city, and also formed a demolition team for the purpose, said officials.
25-12-2021||Chandigarh||Sons of SAD candidate booked for murder bid||Moga : Police have booked sons of Tirath Singh Mahla, SAD candidate from Baghapurana, on charges of attempt to murder after they allegedly thrashed a school bus driver for posting a comment on social media against the Akalis.A case has been registered at the Baghapurana police station.The accused have been identified as Jaspreet Singh, Sukhpreet Singh, sons of Tirath Singh Mahla, who is also district president of the SAD. Other accused include Rampal Singh, Gurpreet Singh and Gurlal Singh, residents of Mahla Kalan.Investigation officer Sardara Singh said: “The victim, Mandeep Singh of Mahla Kalan village, is a bus driver. On Thursday, the accused intercepted his bus and thrashed him. The victim is undergoing treatment at the civil hospital.”Mahla could not be contacted despite repeated attempts.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/sons-of-sad-candidate-booked-for-murder-bid-101640375901718.html
25-12-2021||Noida||Major diversions in Ghaziabad today as UP CM to attend BJP’s ‘Jan Vishwas Yatra’||The Ghaziabad traffic police on Friday announced major diversions ahead of Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath’s visit to the city, who will take part in the Bharatiya Janata Party’s ‘Jan Vishwas Yatra’, which will reach Ghaziabad on Saturday. Officials of the traffic police said the roadshow will cover a distance of 2.5 kilometres and is likely to take up two to three hours. The roadshow will start from Kalka Garhi Chowk and will further move towards Chaudhary Morh, Ghanta Ghar and further up to Thakurdwara, which is a crossing of Ghaziabad-Hapur Road. The rally will also pass through Ambedkar Road and GT Road, which witness heavy vehicular traffic and are key roads in Ghaziabad. “The commuters have been advised to avoid the roads. The diversions will be in place from 3pm on December 25 till the end of the event. It is estimated that the entire route will be covered in about two to three hours and during this period, vehicles will not be allowed on these roads,” said Ramanand Kushwaha, superintendent of police (traffic). As a result of the diversions, the traffic coming from Lal Kuan on GT Road will be diverted to Sajan Morh and further towards Loha Mandi and Hapur Chungi. Likewise, traffic coming on GT Road from Mohan Nagar will take Meerut crossing and turn towards Delhi Meerut Road to reach ALT Centre. Vehicles coming this way will not be allowed to go towards Ghanta Ghar. “Likewise, the vehicles from all the connecting roads will not be allowed on Ambedkar Road and GT Road during the roadshow,” said the SP. Both the roads have major markets, commercial centres and residential areas in the vicinity. Office bearers of the BJP said during the roadshow, chief minister Yogi Adityanath will board a ‘rath’ (chariot) at Kalka Garhi and UP’s deputy chief minister Dr Dinesh Sharma and Union minister General (retd) V K Singh, who is also an MP from Ghaziabad , will accompany the CM. “The supporters have planned over a dozen places where they will greet the CM and others... The entire route is being decorated will flowers and banners and there is lot of enthusiasm among the party workers and supporters,” said Ashiwini Sharma, a spokesperson of the BJP’s city unit. Nipun Agarwal, superintendent of police (city 1), said elaborate security arrangements have been made ahead of the CM’s visit. “Around 1,000 personnel will be deployed. Besides, there will be other teams who will be a part of the CM’s security. The entire route has been divided into five sectors and two zones and security arrangements will be headed by senior police officers,” said Agarwal. The ‘Jan Vishwas Yatra’ is a roadshow launched by the BJP on December 19 to extend its outreach among the public in the run up to the state assembly polls scheduled next year. The rally that was launched in Bijnor on Sunday will reach Ghaziabad on Saturday evening.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/major-diversions-in-ghaziabad-today-as-up-cm-to-attend-bjp-s-jan-vishwas-yatra-101640375781593.html
25-12-2021||Chandigarh||Three-day Shaheedi Jor Mela to begin at Fatehgarh Sahib from Dec 25||Fatehgarh Sahib: The three-day Shaheedi Jor Mela will start at Gurdwara Fatehgarh Sahib from Saturday.In wake of recent bomb blast at Ludhiana and sacrilege attempt at Golden temple, high security arrangements have been made at the gurdwara and surrounding areas to maintain law and order.The event marks the martyrdom of the two younger sons of Guru Gobind Singh— Zorawar Singh and Fateh Singh — who were bricked alive by the Mughals in 1705.The three-day religious function would begin with ‘akhand path’ of Guru Granth Sahib at Gurdwara Jyoti Swarup on Saturday.Senior superintendent of police Sandeep Goel said as many as 3,000 police personnel have been deployed to keep vigil during event.“Nearly 200 CCTV cameras have been installed around the area. A helpline number have been issued so that people visiting the gurdwara don’t face any inconvenience,” he said.As part of the arrangements, the district has been divided into 11 sectors, each under an SP-rank officer, he said. Local holiday declared in Fatehgarh SahibChandigarh: The Punjab government on Friday declared a local holiday on December 27 in Fatehgarh Sahib district for nagar kirtan (religious procession) to mark the Shaheedi Sabha. An official spokesperson of the state government said all the offices of the Punjab government, boards/corporations and government educational institutions will remain closed on Monday in Fatehgarh Sahib district.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/threeday-shaheedi-jor-mela-to-begin-at-fatehgarh-sahib-from-dec-25-101640375662961.html
25-12-2021||Other||Andhra CM Jagan to felicitate CJI Ramana a year after ‘destabilisation’ charge||Hyderabad: Eight months after taking over as the Chief Justice of India (CJI), Justice N V Ramana is going to get the civic reception from the Andhra Pradesh government headed by chief minister Y S Jagan Mohan Reddy on his home soil on Saturday.According to an official spokesperson from the chief minister’s office, the chief minister would be hosting a hi-tea for the CJI at Tummalapalli Kalakshetram in Vijayawada at 5 pm on Saturday. “Jagan will be felicitating Justice Ramana on behalf of the state government,” the spokesman said.On Sunday, too, the chief minister will be attending a get-together to be hosted by Governor Biswabhushan Harichandan at Raj Bhavan for the CJI.An official familiar with the development said Jagan might have a one-on-one meeting with the CJI after the civic reception on Saturday.This is for the first time that the chief minister would be meeting Justice Ramana, against whom he had made severe allegations in his complaint to former CJI S A Bobde on October 6, 2020.In the complaint which was released to the media by principal advisor to the chief minister Ajeya Kallam on October 10, Jagan alleged that Justice Ramana, who was then a judge in the Supreme Court, was trying to destabilise the Andhra Pradesh government in collusion with Telugu Desam Party president and former chief minister N Chandrababu Naidu.The chief minister went on to allege that Justice Ramana was trying to influence chief justice of the state high court Justice J K Maheshwari, including the roster of a few judges and instances of how matters important to the TDP had been allocated to a few select judges.He asked Justice Bobde to “consider initiating such steps as may be considered fit and proper to ensure that the state judiciary’s neutrality is maintained.”While high court chief justice J K Maheshwari was transferred to Sikkim in December 2020, the Supreme Court on March 24, 2021, dismissed the complaint of Jagan Mohan Reddy against Justice Ramana after giving it “due consideration” and said all the matters were dealt with under the in-house procedure.The Jagan government also initiated a CID inquiry into an alleged land scam in the capital region of Amaravati, alleging involvement of Justice Ramana’s daughters in the scam. The case, however, was dismissed by the Supreme Court on July 19 this year.Justice Ramana, who took over as the CJI on April 24, came to the Telugu states on June 11 and was accorded rousing reception in Hyderabad by the Telangana government led by chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao.He also visited Tirupati to have a darshan of Lord Venkateshwara on Tirumala, but the Andhra Pradesh chief minister conveniently avoided calling on the CJI. Instead, he was received by two local MLAs and TTD Trust Board chairman Y V Subba Reddy.However, this time, the Jagan government decided to extend cordial welcome to Justice Ramana, who landed in Andhra Pradesh on a three-day visit on Friday. A rousing welcome was arranged for the CJI on his arrival to his native village Ponnavaram in Krishna district in the morning.On behalf of the chief minister, his senior cabinet colleague Peddireddy Ramachandra Reddy, besides MLAs M Jaganmohan Rao and Vasantha Krishna Prasad and MLC M Arun Kumar received Justice Ramana and accompanied him to the village, where he was felicitated by the local people and legal fraternity.On Sunday, the CJI would attend a series of programmes in Vijayawada and Amaravati, including addressing a judicial officers’ conference at Acharya Nagarjuna University and high court bar association at Amaravati, besides returning to Hyderabad.
25-12-2021||Other||IAS officers should be shown the door, if they don’t comply with court orders: Madras HC||ChennaiChiding IAS officers who do not comply with the orders of the court, the Madras high court has come down heavily on them and observed they should be shown the door and their IAS posts must be stripped off.In case of non-compliance of the orders of the court, it is time and again made clear that fine will be secondary and imprisonment primary, a division bench of Justices S Vaidyanathan and R Vijayakumar said recently.“Of late, it is reported that several IAS officers, dealing with applications under Section 80-A of the Town and Country Planning Act, 1971, are not complying with the orders of this court, in spite of specific instructions issued every now and then, fixing the outer time limit for disposal of the matters.” “Such officers, who are least bothered about the orders of this court and are not doing their duty, must be shown the doors and their IAS posts must be stripped off, as ignoring the orders of this court would definitely amount to dishonesty in their duty, besides disobedience,” the bench said.The bench was dismissing two writ petitions, one from AHM Traders, by its authorised representative S Abubakkar and the other from S Mohamed Ali & Co., by its proprietor S Mohammed Ali, seeking to quash the lock and seal and demolition notices of the Greater Chennai Corporation issued between April and June this year.The bench also imposed a cost of ₹50,000 on the two firms as their act amounted to ‘forum shopping’ and they somehow attempted to pull out their cases from the bench after sensing the mood of the court.The amount should be paid by them jointly to the Sudaroli Social Service Trust in Salem district and Pasu Madam at Tiruverkadu, within two weeks, the bench added.The case of the petitioners was that they had put up a shed near their shops. When the local civic body officials initiated action and issued lock and seal and demolition notices, they moved the high court challenging the same. Sensing the mood of the court that it was likely to dismiss the petitions, they indulged in ‘forum shopping’ by filing applications before some other court. The bench, however, dismissed the petitions as devoid of merits, last week.What prompted the bench to chide the IAS officers was the alleged non-implementation of the earlier orders of the bench and the inordinate delay on their part in disposing of the applications of the petitioners against the demolition notices.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ias-officers-should-be-shown-the-door-if-they-don-t-comply-with-court-orders-madras-hc-101640375602958.html
25-12-2021||Noida||Noida police officials meet to discuss preparations for upcoming assembly polls||With the Election Commission of India issuing directions to the police to make arrangements for the assembly elections scheduled to be held in Uttar Pradesh next year, police commissioner of Gautam Budh Nagar Alok Singh on Thursday held a meeting with the officials to discuss the preparations for the upcoming assembly polls. The police have been told to launch a drive and keep a check on anti-social elements to ensure free and fair elections. “On Thursday, we held a meeting with the officials of Gautam Budh Nagar police and also with the police personnel from neighbouring districts and states to formulate a joint strategy on issues related to law and order ahead of the assembly elections in Uttar Pradesh,” he said. He said the police teams are conducting studies of vulnerable areas and also taking action against troublemakers. “We also arrested some anti-social elements from Khoda colony last week. Several suspects have also been booked under the Goonda Act. The police teams have been directed to check illegal liquor trade routes and also seize unauthorised weapons,” he said. The commissioner further said that in the run-up to the elections, an extensive security plan is being prepared to arrest most-wanted criminals, proclaimed offenders and parole jumpers. Gautam Budh Nagar has 1,567,617 registered voters in three assembly constituencies – Noida (having 664,837 voters), Dadri (565,682) and Jewar (337,098). Uttar Pradesh may go to polls in May next year. There are 1,754 booths in the district, each hacing one booth-level officer. The district election department is also creating awareness and seeking people’s participation to update the electoral rolls with the names of new voters and removing names of those who have shifted. People who complete 18 years of age as on January 1, 2022, are eligible for enrolment as voters.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/noida-police-officials-meet-to-discuss-preparations-for-upcoming-assembly-polls-101640375601648.html
25-12-2021||Noida||Noida: 2 children sitting near bonfire charred, one injured||Two children died while one more was injured after one of the child’s clothes caught fire while sitting near a bonfire and the two others tried to save the child in Gejha village in Phase 2 police station area on Thursday evening. Bhupendra Mishra, in-charge of Gejha police check post, said the victims’ family members informed police about the matter on Friday morning. Sher Singh (65) told police that his two-year-old granddaughter Prachi, and his tenant’s six-year-old daughter Yashu and son Divyansh (8) were sitting near a bonfire in their house on Thursday evening. “The tenants had lit the bonfire as it was cold and later, they got busy in some household chores. The three children were sitting around the bonfire. Prachi’s woollen clothes suddenly caught fire and she was injured. The two other children also got injured while trying to save Prachi,” said Singh. The children’s family members heard their cries and rushed to them. The three children were rushed to a private hospital in Noida’s Sector 110, where doctors referred them to Safdarjung Hospital. Mishra said Prachi died on Thursday evening while Yashu succumbed to her burn injuries on Friday. “The family members informed police on Friday as the hospital refused to hand over the bodies. We then facilitated the process and reached the spot to investigate the matter,” he said. The two bodies were handed over to the family members after a post-mortem was performed. Police said Divyansh is stable and is undergoing treatment at the hospital in Delhi. Sujeet Upadhyaya, station house officer of Phase 2 police station, said the victims’ family has not filed any complaint in this regard. Police have advised people to exercise caution while warming themselves before bonfires in winter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/noida-2-children-sitting-near-bonfire-charred-one-injured-101640375483258.html
25-12-2021||Bangalore||Only 10% of winter session time spent on northern Karnataka: Speaker||Out of the 52 hours of total business conducted in the Karnataka legislative assembly in the ongoing winter session, just around 10% of it was dedicated towards discussing problems of northern districts, defeating one of the main reasons for holding the winter session in Belagavi, about 505 km from Bengaluru.According to Vishweshwar Hegde Kageri, the assembly speaker, out of the total 52 hours of business between December 13 and 24, only 5.45 hours were dedicated to discussing northern Karnataka.“If we are conducting the session in Suvarna Vidhana Soudha in Belagavi and if no time is given to discuss the problems of north Karnataka, it shows that they (BJP) are enemies of the region,” Siddaramaiah, the Congress’s leader of the opposition said on Friday.He said the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) had called for the session just to pass bills and not to discuss problems of the region or development of the state.The statements come at a time when the growth gap between the northern and southern parts of the state, which could not be more different from each other, continues to widen, alienating the region which has within it some of the most underdeveloped, arid and backward districts in the country.The southern regions of Karnataka have traditionally been more prosperous and have a bigger influence on state politics and policy.Among other reasons, the decision to construct a second seat of power in the border district of Belagavi in 2007 was to discuss problems of the region which have seldom received the attention it deserves. The region has in the past also demanded separate statehood.AS Patil (Nadahalli), the Congress legislator from Devar Hippargi in Vijayapura, made a passionate speech in the assembly saying all statements on speaking about north Karnataka were just “lip talk (service)”.“There is Kittur-Karnataka, Kalyana-Karantaka, Mumbai-Karnataka, coastal-Karnataka, central-Karnataka, Mysuru-Karnataka, Bengaluru-Karnataka...when will we become united,” he said.“When KAS, KPSC exams take place, everyone is expected to compete. How will you facilitate competition? Your children, my children and those of the rich study in St Mary School and Bishop Cottons. The children of poor study in government schools. How will they compete,” he added.The naming of Basavaraj Bommai as the chief minister in July helped assuage some of the anger of people from the region as the former is from the northern parts. But his own party members expressed their dissatisfaction at the lack of time spent on north Karnataka.“The discussions that have happened have not been satisfactory. There were some discussions on irrigation projects but not enough was done on getting basic amenities, development, education, employment industries and other issues concerning north Karnataka,” BC Patil, Karnataka’s minister for agriculture said on Friday.He added that it was the Congress who wasted time on discussing unwanted topics and not allowing the house to function.Regional imbalances in Karnataka have only grown over the years irrespective of the party in power that has forced successive governments to dedicate more resources for healthcare and infrastructure in India’s technology capital while leaving other parts of the state largely underdeveloped. The push to divert investments to other parts of the state has not materialised. More so because corporations are keen on remaining close to the ecosystem in Bengaluru and not be disadvantaged due to the distance from the capital or the lack of infrastructure in other underdeveloped parts just for cheaper land.The per-capita income of the region was ₹128,761 in 2018-19 as against Bengaluru which stands at ₹301,748.The Kalaburagi division which covers the Kalyana-Karnataka region, home to six of the most backward districts in the country, at ₹114,133, according to the 2020-21 economic survey of Karnataka.The per capita income of the Mysuru division stands at ₹205,829 and ₹156,729 in Bengaluru rural (not including Bengaluru city), according to data provided in the economic survey.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/only-10-of-winter-session-time-spent-on-northern-karnataka-speaker-101640375481840.html
25-12-2021||Bangalore||Karnataka: BJP dithers to table anti-conversion bill||The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) government in Karnataka on Friday held back tabling of the contentious anti-conversion bill in the upper house of the state legislature, delaying a law it considers key to its core ideology. With barely a day to go in the legislative council before the end of the winter session in Belagavi, about 505 km from Bengaluru, the BJP decided against tabling the bill after managing its passage in the assembly despite stiff opposition on Thursday. “There was not enough time for discussions on the bill so we decided against it,” said a BJP legislator, requesting not to be named. He added that the BJP will get the bill passed in the joint session of the legislature likely to be held in the first quarter of the next year. The Karnataka Protection of Right to Freedom of Religion Bill, 2021 or anti-conversion bill has become one of the more controversial legislations proposed by the Basavaraj Bommai-led BJP government that has been accused of trying to polarise the population with laws meant to divide people. Since the idea of such a bill was first mooted during the monsoon session, there has been a spate of attacks against the Christian community across several regions in the state. The BJP has been trying to introduce laws in line with its core beliefs and in line with its ideological parent, RSS, like the anti-cattle slaughter bill and the special marriages act which the right wing calls ‘love jihad’. Senior BJP leaders said the special marriages provision has been partially included in anti-conversion bill. The BJP is also looking to consolidate some of its core support base under the larger umbrella of Hindu and Hindutva in a political climate that is caste-centric. The Congress and Janata Dal (Secular) or JD(S), the two main opposition parties in the state, had opposed the tabling and passing of the bill in the assembly. Despite winning higher number of seats in the December 10 MLC polls, the BJP is still short of one vote to get the contentious anti-conversion bill passed in the council when they decide to table it next. “We are just one short of the magic number (38) and the likes of Lakhan Jarkiholi (Independent) will help passing the bill,” the legislator cited above said. The BJP fell short of securing a majority and gaining control in the upper house of the Karnataka legislature which would force the saffron outfit to continue its dependence on outside support for passage of key and contentious bills. The BJP won 11 out of the 25 seats that went to the polls on December 10 which now takes its tally to 37--one short of the halfway mark in the 75-member house. Though the Congress did see an overall reduction in its tally in the upper house, the national outfit managed to win 11 seats in a hotly contested election that has helped the party gain steam with more polls in the state next year. The Janata Dal (Secular) or JD(S) was decimated as the former prime minister HD Deve Gowda-led regional outfit managed to win just 2 out the seven it contested and even lost in several districts which it considered a stronghold. While the JD(S) walking out helped the BJP with the passage of the anti-cattle slaughter bill, the regional outfit has opposed the anti-conversion bill far more vehemently.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/karnatakabjp-dithers-to-table-anti-conversion-bill-101640375301585.html
25-12-2021||Noida||Gautam Budh Nagar traffic cops to check noise levels at Christmas, New Year parties||The Gautam Budh Nagar traffic police on Friday said they will use decibel meters to check noise levels during parties, which will be organised on the occasions of Christmas and New Year’s Eve, and take suitable action against offenders who violate the permissible noise limits. Ganesh Prasad Saha, deputy commissioner of police, (traffic) Gautam Budh Nagar, said keeping in line with the directions of the National Green Tribunal (NGT) and the Supreme Court, the traffic police has been conducting enforcement drives to check noise levels in the district. “The traffic police teams are equipped with two decibel meters. They will visit different areas, which are hubs of party venues or where many programmes are likely to be organised,and take action against noise pollution,” said Saha. The permissible noise levels in residential areas is 55 decibel during the day and 45 decibel at night. In commercial areas, the permissible sound limit is 65 decibel during the day and 55 decibel at night. Officials said that according to the norms laid down in the Motor Vehicle Act, the permissible sound levels in sensitive areas, such as hospitals, is 50 decibel during the day and 40 decibel at night.The DCP said action will be taken against people if they play loud music in parties on New Year’s Eve. “There is no specific penalty for playing loud music but violation under noise pollution draws a fine of ₹10,000 fine,” said the officerThe state government has already announced a curfew from 11pm to 5am from Saturday amid growing concern over the spread of the Omicron variant of Covid-19. The government also said only 200 people could attend marriages and social functions, in which all necessary Covid-safety protocols have to be followed. Alok Singh, Gautam Budh Nagar police commissioner, said police teams will ensure strict enforcement of the night curfew. From January to November this year, the traffic police issued 2,689 challans for noise pollution. The police issued total 5 lakh challan and recovered ₹4.23 crore as fine from violators during the same period.Syed Shamim Anwar, associate director (marketing) of Entertainment City, which runs the Great India Place Mall and Gardens Galleria in Noida, said, “There is no big gathering or party for Christmas in the malls. The restaurants and bars normally organise parties on New Year’s Eve. They may reschedule their programmes to adhere to the government rules. We had followed the night curfew last year and we will follow this time too.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/gautam-budh-nagar-traffic-cops-to-check-noise-levels-at-christmas-new-year-parties-101640375241533.html
25-12-2021||Pune||BVU gives online option to students for exams||Pune: With the students of Bharati Vidyapeeth University (BVU) facing issues related to attending their examination centres in person as only offline option was allowed, the varsity has now decided to allow students to appear for exams online. HT had published that BVU, one of the private deemed universities, is conducting its winter 2021 semester examination for various courses starting from December 15 and it is going to be held only in offline format. “There are thousands of students studying in various courses at BVU and most of them are not physically present at college to attend offline lectures and even appear for exams. So, we wrote to the varsity to give online option to appear for the exam for this semester. Now, vice-chancellor M M Salunkhe sir has issued orders to give online option to students appearing for the examinations,” said Rishi Pardeshi, state observer, Nationalist Students Congress Party. As the universities and colleges in the state are gearing up preparations for conducting examinations, the state higher education minister Uday Samant had earlier announced to give both options of online and offline mode for conducting the exams depending on the Covid situation. However, BVU students were upset over the decision of not giving online option for exams, as many of them are back into their village, some are afraid of the new Omicron Covid variant and want to appear online for exams. MM Salunkhe, vice-chancellor, Bharati Vidyapeeth university said, “Our examinations are going on for various courses and after taking the review of Covid situation and other aspects, the online option to appear for the exams is been given to students.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/bvu-gives-online-option-to-students-for-exams-101640375184672.html
25-12-2021||Gurugram||Bhondsi inmate caught with drugs while returning from court hearing||A 21-year-old convict lodged in the Bhondsi jail in connection with a murder, robbery and assault case was booked on Wednesday (December 22) for allegedly carrying drugs during a hearing at the Jhajjar court the same day, police said on Friday.The suspect, Brijesh Singh, when returning from the Jhajjar court after the hearing was caught with a packet of sulfa (also called sulfonamide) drugs, said officials of the Bhondsi jail. A case has been registered against Singh under Section 20B (ii) of Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substance Act, 1985, on Wednesday night.According to Bhondsi jail officials, they have been struggling to stop smuggling of drugs, which the inmates bring inside the jail -- mostly when they return from hospitals or court hearings. The prisoners are able to smuggle drugs because police teams accompanying them do not maintain a strict vigil, the officials added.Muhammad Akil, director general of police (prison), said, “Inmates returning from parole, court visits and hospitals often bring drug substances, SIM cards and cellphones with them... Strict frisking and three-layer checking is conducted to ensure that they don’t smuggle anything inside the jail. Baggage scanners often spot such substances, but if not, other items are checked before the prisoners enter the jail premises,” Akil said.Police teams accompany the inmates, and they are not allowed to meet their families and friends without permission from the court and the prison department.The police personnel need to keep a strict vigil to stop this menace, said the officials.Akil said the jail authorities conduct search operations in all the barracks regularly, to ensure the usage of cellphones and drugs is not allowed. There were regular complaints of cellphone usage for extortion calls earlier, but now the situation is under control as the department scans CCTV footage regularly and also conducts human intelligence programmes.Harinder Singh, jail superintendent, said that drugs are not available inside the jail unless it is thrown or carried inside the premises by the inmates and staff. “We are taking strict action against those found in possession of drugs or are found smuggling, they are booked under relevant sections of Indian Penal Code (IPC),” Singh said, adding that they have written to the Gurugram police to keep a check on the inmates and their movement when they are taken to the court or hospitals.The Bhondsi jail houses all types of prisoners -- gangsters, murderers, robbers, snatchers and rapists among others, many of whom are rich and infamous. There are 23 barracks in the jail, including six security cells where dreaded gangsters are lodged. 
25-12-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab logs 41 fresh Covid cases, 1 death||Punjab on Friday reported 41 fresh Covid cases taking the infection tally to 6,04,133, according to a medical bulletin. With one Covid-related fatality, the death toll in the state reached 16,636, it said. The state’s positivity rate for the day remained 0.18%. The number of active cases in the state also rose to 335, the bulletin said. Among fresh cases, maximum 17 were reported in Jalandhar and five each in Pathankot and Patiala. With 20 persons recovering from the infection, the number of cured persons has reached 5,87,162, it said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-logs-41-fresh-covid-cases-1-death-101640375123168.html
25-12-2021||Bangalore||Karnataka: RSS barges into child’s naming ceremony alleging religious conversion||Members of the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) on Wednesday interrupted a child’s naming ceremony in Hubli district, alleging religious conversion. The incident was reported while the anti-conversion bill was passed by the Karnataka assembly on Thursday. The incident took place in Koliwad village in the district, located around 400 km from capital Bengaluru. A group of RSS members allegedly barged into the house of Nilavwa Bhajantri on Wednesday night. The group interrupted a gathering of children and their parents. Following this “raid”, a pastor and a local resident were called in for questioning by police. Nagaraja Gunjala, an RSS leader, told media that at least 10 conversions were reported in the village in the past few years and the pastor was trying to convert more people. “What is the need for teaching the bible at a naming ceremony? This is an attempt to convert and we will oppose,” he said. HT could not verify the claim made by the RSS leader and even police said they couldn’t find any evidence supporting the activist’s claim. The pastor was not available for the comment but in a statement given to police, he and guest presents have denied the allegations made by RSS workers. A day after the incident, on Thursday, police called both the RSS leader and the pastor for questioning. Both parties were let off after a discussion with police. P Krishnakant, the superintendent of police, Hubli rural, said since no complaint was lodged by both parties as no FIR has been registered in the matter. “We have investigated the matter. We have not come across any evidence of religious conversion so far. We were informed about an attempt to conduct conversion, but it was found not to be true. The house owner has also given a statement stating the same,” said the officer. When asked if any action has been taken again the RSS workers, the officer said there were no complaints filed and if any “cognisable matters” come to light action will be taken. In another incident, Christmas celebrations at a school in Mandya district were interrupted by Hindutva activists on Thursday, alleging religious conversion. The mob barged into Nirmala English High School and College as the Christmas celebrations were underway. Officials of the school said the parent of one of the students had informed the right-wing groups that the school was preaching Christianity during the celebrations. A video of the incident has gone viral on the social media on Friday. No police complaint has been registered so far. On Wednesday, a 150-year-old church was allegedly vandalised by unidentified people in Chikkaballapur district, 65 km from Bengaluru. The miscreants vandalised the statue of St Antony, at St Joseph’s church, in Susaipalaya area. The incident came to light when a parishioner, who arrived for prayers at around 6 am, found the broken statue and informed the parish priest. In a complaint, the church authority said a large stone was found near the broken statue. The incident came hours before the Karnataka legislative assembly passed the contentious “anti-conversion bill”, amid din, to prevent “unlawful conversions”. These attacks are also the latest in the spate of attacks on various Christian groups. Members of right-ring groups set ablaze Christian religious books alleging religious conversion by the church while a viral video purportedly showed a man chasing a priest with a machete earlier this month. A viral video on social media last month showed members of the Bajrang Dal barging into a prayer hall and stopping a service mid-way in Hassan district. In a similar incident in September, a group of right-wing activists barged into a Christian prayer hall Karkala in Udupi district and allegedly attacked devotees while a prayer meeting was underway. A fact-finding report by several civil society organisations earlier in December claimed that Karnataka was witnessing one of the highest incidents of attack against Christians due to the government’s “attitude”. The report by United Christian Forum (UCF), Association for Protection of Civil Rights (APCR), and United Against Hate also claimed that Karnataka ranks third among states with the most number of attacks on the community and their places of worship in India. A separate report released by People’s Union for Civil Liberties (PUCL) last week documented 39 instances of attacks on Christians in the state this year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/karnatakarss-barges-into-child-s-naming-ceremony-alleging-religious-conversion-101640375121607.html
25-12-2021||Pune||Pune Maha-Metro completes work at Sambhaji bridge||Pune: With Ganesh mandals supporting the bridge work on Sambhaji bridge, Maharashtra Metro Rail Corporation Ltd (Maha-Metro) completed the work within few hours on Friday wee hours.The work was carried out under police protection.Opposition parties mainly Congress, Nationalist Congress Party and Shiv Sena raised objections over height of Metro bridge at Sambhaji bridge as it would become hurdle for Ganesh immersion procession. Even some Ganesh mandals raised objection.As the issue became political, mandals were blamed for halting the work for last few years. Later Manache Ganesh manadals supported the Metro work.Metro project director Autl Gadgil said, “We sought police protection for completing the work. We started the work at around 11 pm and finished the work by Friday morning.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pune-maha-metro-completes-work-at-sambhaji-bridge-101640374941963.html
25-12-2021||Noida||Restaurants and pubs in Noida fear huge losses as UP goes under curfew||The Uttar Pradesh government’s decision to impose a curfew from 11pm to 5am has brought down the spirits of those in the hospitality sector as owners of restaurants, pubs and bars fear they will incur major losses during the festive week from December 25 (Christmas) to December 31 (New Year’s Eve). The hospitality industry was pinning hopes on Christmas and New Year’s Eve to recover losses incurred throughout the year because of previous curfews.“After a very bad year of business, the last week of December was our only hope to generate some revenue. This week is very important for us as it generates revenue that is equivalent to a month’s business. Now with the curfew coming into effect at 11pm, a large number of reservations by customers for Christmas and New Years’ Eve are getting cancelled. We are staring at a loss of at least 40 to 50%,” said Umang Tewari, co-owner at Local Noida restaurant in Gardens Galleria Mall in Sector 38, which opened just a month ago. “Our launch in Noida was also delayed due to Covid-19 and curfew restrictions in Uttar Pradesh. Business has not even started picking up and night curfew will further dampen spirits,” he added.Restaurants and pubs in Noida have licenses to operate till 1am but will not be able to do so during the night curfew. “On such days, especially on New Years’ Eve, most of the customers come in by 9-10pm and stay on till 1am to celebrate the New Year. But now, the footfall will definitely reduce as there is no point going out on New Year’s Eve if one cannot stay out till midnight,” said Saurabh Agrawal, founder & CEO, Rubarru Clubstraunt, Gardens Galleria.Earlier on October 20, the Uttar Pradesh government had lifted the night curfew, that was in effect from 11pm to 6 am since April. “It has only been two months since the night curfew in UP was lifted. Before we could make up for lost business, we are hit by another curfew. We are staring at a loss of at least 50% revenue,” said Yogesh Sharma, owner at The Flying Dutchman restaurant and pub. It has outlets in sectors 62 and 32.Some restaurants had also booked artistes to perform on Christmas and New Year’s Eve, which will have to be cancelled now. “Considering that we all went through two national lockdowns, where restaurants had to pay rents to landlords, maintenance to malls and salaries to employees, with the government announcing night curfews, the losses are going to be huge. We had booked a singer to perform at one of our outlets on Christmas but will have to cancel the event,” said Naresh Madan & Sharad Madan, co-founders and directors, Imperfecto Group that has outlets in sectors 38 and 32. Manish Khatter, owner at The Bar Company in Sector 38, added that customers are visiting pubs and restaurants as they feel safe on observing that the Covid protocols are being followed.“All restaurants are following Covid protocols as it has become a new normal and our staff is fully vaccinated as well. The hospitality industry is following all regulations diligently to provide a safe environment for customers. At such a time, night curfew hurts our sentiments,” he said.Varun Khera, head of National Restaurants Association of India, Noida chapter, said that restaurants will cooperate with the government’s decision. “We will cooperate with the government’s decision to impose the night curfew. However, this night curfew singles out restaurants and pubs that stay open till 1am and it does not seem fair considering the restrictions were only lifted two months ago. The night curfew hits the hospitality industry the most as we are the first ones to get affected and last ones to get relieved,” said Khera. On the other hand, medical experts say that while the night curfew may affect businesses, it is one step in the right direction to curtail the spread of coronavirus.“The new variant of Covid-19 is known to spread five times more than the earlier one. Moreover, active cases of Covid-19 have started increasing in Gautam Budh Nagar which is again more alarming. Moreover, large gatherings on such events also pose a risk of turning into super-spreaders. In such a situation, a night curfew comes as a precautionary measure to control the spread of infection,” said Dr Sunil Awana, president of Indian Medical Association, Noida chapter.Meanwhile, district magistrate Suhas L Y said that all establishments will have to follow the restrictions imposed by the government. “The decision has been taken after much deliberation and has to be followed by all establishments. District authorities have been asked to ensure the restrictions are enforced strictly,” said Suhas.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/restaurants-and-pubs-in-noida-fear-huge-losses-as-up-goes-under-curfew-101640374883006.html
25-12-2021||Gurugram||Haryana govt imposes night curfew, restrictions on large gatherings as Covid-19 cases rise||The Haryana government on Friday issued a fresh ‘Mahamari Surakshit’ alert across the state, thereby imposing restrictions on the movement of people from 11pm to 5am, said officials.The government has put curbs on the number of people gathering at social functions, and made double vaccination mandatory to enter public places from January 1 next year. According to the directions issued by Sanjeev Kaushal, chief secretary of Haryana, indoor and outdoor gatherings will be allowed up to 50% of the hall or area capacity, with a ceiling of maximum 200 or 300 people, respectively, subject to strict observance of Covid-appropriate behavioural norms and social distancing. It also directed organisers to ensure that only vaccinated persons can attend the events. The government has also directed that all the public offices and facilities, only fully vaccinated persons are allowed to enter from January 1, 2022. The directions were issued after Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar held a Covid review meeting in Chandigarh on Friday. Khattar said that in view of the possibility of increasing Omicron cases in the state, for the safety of the people, from January 1, 2022, both doses of vaccination have been made mandatory for entry in all institutions related to the public sector. Gatherings of more than 200 people in public places, other programmes and movement of the public from 11pm to 5am is also not allowed.Gurugram reported 48 Covid-19 cases on Friday.According to the order issued by chief secretary Kaushal, “Keeping in view the emergence of the new coronavirus variant ‘Omicron’ and the persistent rise in Covid-19 cases in the state, in exercise of the powers conferred under Section 22(2) (h)of the Disaster Management Act, 2005, the undersigned in my capacity as chairperson, state executive committee, I hereby impose the guidelines of Mahamari Alert - Surakshit Haryana from 25.12.2021 (05:00am onwards) to 05.01.2022 (till 05:00am) in the state of Haryana.” 
25-12-2021||Chandigarh||Behbal Kalan firing: Accused cops skip hearing citing security threat||Faridkot : A day after the Ludhiana court complex blast, policemen accused of the 2015 Behbal Kalan firing incident gave the hearing at the Faridkot court a miss on Friday claiming security threat. Suspended inspector general of police Paramraj Singh Umranangal, former senior superintendent of police Charanjit Singh Sharma and superintendent of police Bikramjit Singh, who are accused in the Behbal Kalan firing case, sought exemption from personal appearance. Additional district and sessions judge Harbans Singh Lekhi allowed their applications and adjourned the matter to January 4. In the application seeking exemption from personal appearance, former SSP Sharma said keeping in view the sacrilege attempts at the Golden Temple in Amritsar and Kapurthala as well as the blast at the judicial courts complex in Ludhiana, the situation is not conducive for them to appear in person in the court. Sharma said he apprehend that due to the recent surcharged atmosphere, some untoward incident may happen with him and other police officials, who are also appearing in the case. Umranangal’s counsel also raised the security threat and told the court that despite the Union home ministry’s directions, the Punjab government has not stepped up his security cover. In September, the Union ministry of home affairs had asked the Punjab government to provide adequate security to Umranangal and his family following his request to the central government. “The request of Umranangal has been examined in the ministry in consultation with the central security agency. As per their report, during the militancy days in Punjab, his family faced the ire of terrorists. His father was killed by a Bhindranwale Tiger Force militant in 1987. Umranangal was attacked by the militant in 1988,” the letter of the ministry to the Punjab government read. Victim’s son continues protest Sukhraj Singh, son of the 2015 Behbal Kalan police firing victim Bhagwan Krishan Singh, whose protest for justice at the incident site entered the 9th day on Friday, said: “They (accused) have always tried to delay the trial by making excuses. In the last six years, no one ever tried to touch them, so where is the threat. We are the people who suffered, but we will continue our fight against them peacefully.”
25-12-2021||Chandigarh||18-year-old boy dies of drug overdose in Tarn Taran village||TARN TARAN: An 18-year-old boy died due to drug overdose in Valmiki Colony of Fatehabad village falling under the Khadoor Sahib sub-division.The body of Gagandeep Singh was found from the village cremation ground on Friday, said family members. They alleged that despite their repeated complaints, police failed to curb drug trade in their village.Gagandeep’s father Ram Lubhaya said his two other sons are also drug addicts. He blames the ruling government and the Tarn Taran police for not taking any action against drug peddlers.“I had admitted Gagandeep to a drug de-addiction centre in Tarn Taran two times, but to no avail. On Friday morning, he left the house saying his friends were calling him. After some time, a villager told us that Gagandeep had injected drugs and his condition was deteriorating. When I reached the village cremation ground, he was already dead,” said Lubhaya.Fatehabad police post in-charge assistant sub-inspector Balraj Singh said: “Whenever we receive any complaint regarding drug peddling in the area, our teams conduct raids and take action.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/18yearold-boy-dies-of-drug-overdose-in-tarn-taran-village-101640374641626.html
25-12-2021||Noida||9 Covid cases reported in a day in Ghaziabad, 17 localities affected so far||Ghaziabad Nine fresh Covid-19 cases emerged in the district on Friday, taking the tally of infections reported in the month of December to 58, of which 32 are active cases. According to official data, seven of the nine patients have no travel history. Five of the total Covid cases reported on Friday are not even contacts of a previously infected patient. All the nine patients have been put in home isolation and are having mild symptoms, such as cough, fever, sore throat and loss of smell and taste. All the nine cases are fully vaccinated, except for one patient who has received only one dose of the Covid-19 vaccine. According to officials, the infection has spread to many parts of the city as the new cases have been reported from 17 different localities, with Indirapuram, Crossings Republik and Nehru Nagar accounting for the maximum Covid cases. Officials said they are taking containment measures to check the spread of the infection. “We are scaled up surveillance and are scanning at least 90-100 contacts of each positive case. We are also putting up fliers outside the house of the patients and informing their neighbours so that they can keep a check on their movement. In all the present cases, the patients have mild symptoms and none of their condition is severe,” said Dr Bhavtosh Shankhdhar, chief medical officer of Ghaziabad. He added so far, at least 17 private hospitals have submitted their applications for empanelling them as paid Covid treatment facilities. “During the second wave, we had about eight government hospitals and 50 private hospitals, which provided Covid care. This time, if cases rise, we will rope in more hospitals so that there is no shortage of Covid beds. We have already asked the private hospitals to check their preparedness beforehand,” said the CMO. According to the state control room figures of December 23, Ghaziabad district stands third among the top three districts in Uttar Pradesh having the highest number of active cases at 32. Of the total active cases, 28 are in home isolation while four are taking treatment in healthcare facilities.  Experts said the trend indicates that the cases will rise. “There is need to spread awareness among masses for maintaining social distancing and also for wearing face mask. There is hardly any adherence to Covid protocol in public places. Ground-level enforcement is needed, instead of a night curfew which will have less impact in terms of enforcement,” said Dr Ashish Aggarwal, former president of Indian Medical Association (Ghaziabad). The state government has imposed a night curfew from 11am to 5pm everyday starting from December 25 in the wake of the recent rise in Covid-19 cases. According to the official figures of the district health department, till Friday, Ghaziabad has had 55,738 cases since the beginning of the pandemic last year and 461 deaths. 
25-12-2021||Noida||12 fresh cases emerge in Noida, one of them is a foreign returnee from UK||Twelve fresh Covid-19 cases were reported in Noida on Friday, taking the tally of infections in the month of December to 88, of which 43 are active cases. Among the new patients is a 48-year-old man, who came to Noida from United Kingdom and is currently under isolation at the Noida Covid Hospital. Doctors said he is asymptomatic and his samples have been sent for genome sequencing. So far, seven international travellers have tested positive for Covid in Noida but none have tested positive for the Omicron variant yet. The other 11 cases include three people, who are contacts of previously infected Covid-19 patients; one who tested positive during focused sampling in Jewar and the rest were tested during random sampling. The woman who came to Noida from Switzerland and tested positive two days ago has now been discharged, said officials. The district health department is now focussing on administering the second doses of the Covid-19 vaccine. Over 3,200,000 doses have been administered in Gautam Budh Nagar so far. These include 1,915,000 first doses and 1,288,000 second doses. Around 6,000 to 8,000 doses are being administered in the district daily.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/12-fresh-cases-emerge-in-noida-one-of-them-is-a-foreign-returnee-from-uk-101640374461602.html
25-12-2021||Gurugram||Gurugram logs most coronavirus cases in six months, but only four in hospital||Gurugram on Friday reported 48 Covid-19 cases -- highest in the past six months -- since June 6, when the city recorded 55 cases, according to the data by district health department.There are 174 active cases in the district at present -- also the highest since June 6 this year, when the city had 812 such patients, according to the health department data. The city also reported 13 recoveries on Friday.Health officials said the high number of Covid-19 cases could be because of the ongoing wedding and festive season, which has been witnessing a large number of gatherings. Officials, however, maintained that there was no need to panic as most of the Covid-19 patients are showing mild symptoms, and only four patients are hospitalised.Dr Virender Yadav, chief medical officer (CMO) of Gurugram, said that there has been an increase in the Covid-19 cases due to large gatherings and crowding in markets. “There is no need to panic, but people must follow social distancing norms seriously. Wearing masks and maintaining sanitisation is a must. Also, residents of the city must avoid going to crowded places to ensure they don’t get infected,” he said. In view of the increase in Covid-19 cases, the health department is ramping up testing and 5,032 people have been tested for Covid-19 in the past 24 hours. “We will increase testing to check the spread of infection. It has been observed that Covid-19 surges are cyclical, but we are prepared to face any upcoming challenge,” he said. On Thursday, the health department also directed private hospitals in the city to fully vaccinate their employees or else they would not be allowed to work inside the hospital premises. “We have issued this direction because the Haryana government has made both doses of vaccination mandatory for entry in all public institutions from January 1, 2022,” he said. According to data shared by the health department, the number of active Covid-19 cases in the district is 174, out of which, 170 patients are in home isolation. Covid-19 tests have been conducted on 2,260,572 people, out of which, 2,073,453 tested negative for the virus. Yadav also said that Gurugram is the first district in Haryana to have achieved 100% Covid vaccination. “The health teams on duty administered 13,380 doses of Covid-19 vaccines to the people on Friday,” he said. The state government on Friday imposed night curfew, restrictions on gatherings, and made double vaccination mandatory from January 1 next year, to curb the spread of the virus. 
25-12-2021||Lucknow||Online exam demand: AKTU students continue with stir||Hundreds of students of Dr APJ Abdul Kalam Technical University (AKTU), Lucknow, again hit the streets on Friday demanding online exams following rise in number of Omicron cases in the state that prompted the government to impose night curfew between 11pm to 5am from December 25 onwards.“We are all determined to stage a protest against the university administration braving the winter chill on the street. At a time when the night curfew has been imposed by Uttar Pradesh government across the state, university wants to hold exam wherein four lakh students are required to come to write offline exam,” Pawan Bhadana, one of the protesters who is leading the students’ agitation by staging road blockages in Lucknow, was heard as saying in a video.When contacted, university administration said they were going ahead with the offline exams from December 28. They alleged that Pawan Bhadana graduated from AKTU in 2012. “Pawan is no more a student of AKTU and he is unnecessarily trying to mislead students,” an official said. The university also shared documents to establish that Bhadana was not an AKTU student anymore.AKTU vice chancellor Prof Vineet Kansal had on Wednesday directed the affiliated institutes to ensure smooth conduct of offline examinations starting December 28. “The odd semester exams of the third and fourth years of graduation and the final year of PG courses will start in offline mode from December 28. The affiliated institutes have been instructed to resolve problems of the students at the earliest so that there is no disturbance in their study and teaching,” Prof Kansal said. The VC also directed the institutions to ensure that Covid protocols were followed during the examinations. He advised students to keep in touch with the institute to solve any problem related to studies. Also, if any problem related to educational activity is not resolved at the institute level, students may post their problems on the university’s online grievance portal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/online-exam-demand-aktu-students-continue-with-stir-101640374283152.html
25-12-2021||Noida||Gautam Budh Nagar receives 626 applications for Covid compensation||The district administration has received 626 applications so far for the ex-gratia compensation of ₹50,000 to the kin of those who died of Covid-19 against the 468 fatalities from the infection that have been reported in the district. This means that the district has received 158 applications more than the total number of deaths recorded. Officials explained these are applications from the kin of all those residents, who died outside the district or state. Most applications are genuine and can be verified from the online state portals, said officials. “The higher number of applications does not mean that 626 people died in Noida. The applications are from the kin of all those, who were residents of Gautam Budh Nagar but may have died here or in other districts or states and added to that particular region’s death toll. At the peak of the second wave, people got admitted to other places too, wherever they could find a bed. Others were probably already living or visiting another city when they got infected,” said additional district magistrate Vandita Srivastava, who is the nodal officer for the compensation disbursement. She added about 300-odd applications are from the kin of those, who are residents of Noida and have died here. Their details are available in the district’s list.She further explained that of the total 468 deaths recorded in Noida, just 377 were Noida residents. The remaining 91 were residents of other districts and states, whose kin will have to apply in those districts for compensation. She clarified that of the 377 residents whose deaths have been recorded in Noida, not all their relatives have applied for the compensation yet. Officials said the applications are being examined, against which the disbursement will soon begin. “We are verifying all applications and they all seem to be genuine. Some of them have minor errors that we are getting rectified. We are trying to ensure most of these applicants receive the compensation soon,” said Srivastava. Rolled out by the Centre and approved by the Supreme Court, all states and UTs are supposed to disburse the compensation amount from State Disaster Response Fund. Across Uttar Pradesh, 22,915 deaths have been reported so far. Districts, such as Lucknow, Varanasi, Prayagraj, Meerut, Kanpur, Gorakhpur and Jhansi, have recorded more deaths than Gautam Budh Nagar. Meanwhile, neighbouring Ghaziabad is close with 461 deaths. Ghaziabad has also received around 150 applications more than the total number of deaths reported.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/gautam-budh-nagar-receives-626-applications-for-covid-compensation-101640374161745.html
25-12-2021||Pune||Maharashtra State Faculty Development Academy to be inaugurated today||PUNE The ‘Maharashtra State Faculty Development Academy’ (MSFDA) will be inaugurated on Saturday in the presence of deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar and chief minister Uddhav Thackeray will remain present for the event online.It is the only state government institution in the country to have initiated a structured institute for faculty development as envisaged in the National Education Policy (NEP) 2020.The academy has been set up with the objective of imparting consistently high-quality vocational education to the teachers coming under the department of higher and technical education in the state as well as all the elements related to higher education throughout their tenure. More than 50,000 teachers and other staff will be trained by the institution.The ‘Maharashtra state faculty development academy’ is a ‘Section 8’ institute established as per the government resolution (GR) of the department of higher and technical education and on the initiative of higher and technical education minister Uday Samant.“Through this, updated knowledge of changing technology, educational methods, industry, business and related fields will be imparted to all the constituents of higher education institutions. The training will be based on the main objectives of creating a new curriculum according to the availability of employment, creating a network of teachers who have done remarkable work in the field of education, conducting continuous experiments for capacity building, rational thinking based on science as well as diverse and inclusive education. The education will be imparted with the help of leading affiliates in Maharashtra,” said Samant.The development academy has entered into agreements with Indian Institute of Science, Education and Research (IISER) and Initiative of Change at Panchgani. Training programmes will also be conducted through Sir JJ School of Art, Tata Institute of Social Sciences, St. Xavier’s College, Deccan Institute Pune, Infosys, Institute of Chemical Technology and many other leading institutes and educators.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/maharashtra-state-faculty-development-academy-to-be-inaugurated-today-101640373861935.html
25-12-2021||Lucknow||Congress targets PM Modi over ‘neglect’ of cows||The Congress has targeted Prime Minister Narendra Modi for “neglecting” cows in the past nearly five years and remembering them by making a reference only when UP assembly elections are inching closer.Uttar Pradesh Congress Committee (UPCC) president Ajay Kumar Lallu in a press statement said the state government’s per cow expenditure on the cow shelter homes was very low. He said Yogi government has maintained a silence on corruption in budgetary allocations for cow shelter homes. He said the PM was now telling people to worship cows. He said everybody was aware what the state government had done for welfare of cows.Lallu said a sum of only ₹30 per animal had been allotted for cow shelter homes and this was not sufficient for their maintenance. He alleged fake bills were being submitted to show a higher number of cows in view of prevailing corruption.He said Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra had raised the issue of neglect of cows and had suggested that Chhattisgarh model for welfare of cows be implemented in Uttar Pradesh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/congress-targets-pm-modi-over-neglect-of-cows-101640373801407.html
25-12-2021||Pune||Cinemagoers run shows houseful in Pune||The holidays and Covid relaxations have brought good business back to multiplexes and cinema houses. With the release of Hindi films, almost every cinema hall is fully booked and every show starting as early as 8 am to the last show at 11.40 pm. Speaking to a cricket fan, Ravi Pendse, who prebooked a ticket for “83” at City Pride for the afternoon show paying a premium, said, “I am a fan of cricket and this was the first time India won the World Cup, so a few of us friends decided to book early to avoid rush and glad we did. With 50% capacity, the show was houseful and we paid double the usual rate for the film, but it is worth it.” Arvind Chaphalkar, MD of City Pride multiplexes said, “The response for “83” movie started in prebooking and is increasing even though it is the first day today. We have all our shows full, but interestingly it is not the youth who are coming to see this film but people in their mid-thirties and forties who possibly were young then.” He said that even as seats are sold at a premium rate as per show is for 50% capacity, the multiplex is running at 100 per cent with no compromise. Puneet Gupta of Inox said, “This week has seen a few good releases dealing with all age groups from super hero, sci-fi to a sports movie and every film is getting very good response at every show. Even late-night shows are going full. We hope to follow it up with the government to allow us to extend to full capacity for the audience at the earliest.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/cinemagoers-run-shows-houseful-in-pune-101640373681650.html
25-12-2021||Other||ATM containing ₹8.20 lakh cash stolen in Agra||Agra An automated teller machine (ATM) of a private payment service provider, containing ₹8.20 lakh cash, was stolen by unidentified miscreants from Kalakl Khedia locality under Tajganj police station in Agra on Friday night, police said. “The incident took place at around 2.45 am. The ATM of Indicash was located in Kalal Khedia area within limits of Tajganj police station. There was no CCTV camera inside the ATM kiosk. Four police teams have been constituted and search is being carried out on the basis clues obtained from CCTV footages of nearby areas,” informed senior superintendent of police (SSP), Agra, Sudhir Kumar Singh. Meanwhile, Surendra Rao, in-charge of Tajganj police station, said that the accused could be four or five in number and were being searched for.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/atm-carrying-rs-8-20-lakh-cash-stolen-in-agra-101640373562617.html
25-12-2021||Lucknow||Discrepancy in teachers’ recruitment: 6,000 reserved category candidates to be appointed in Uttar Pradesh||Lucknow: The day after chief minister Yogi Adityanath met the reserved category candidates regarding the alleged discrepancy in the reservation in 69,000 assistant teachers’ recruitment, the state government on Friday announced to appoint 6000 reserved category candidates and fill 17,000 additional teacher posts soon. “The 6000 posts will be filled to resolve the issue of discrepancies in reservation in the recruitment of 69,000 teachers. The recruitment will start with immediate effect,” informed state basic education minister Satish Chandra Dwivedi. According to a press statement issued by the basic education department, the list of selected candidates in reservation category will be made by December 28 and announced by December 30. The selected candidates will be called to review their documents between January 3 and 5. The joining letter to them will be given on January 6. Beside this, the minister announced that new recruitment would also be done on 1,700 vacant posts of teachers. The process of new recruitment would begin shortly, the minister said. This comes after protest by thousands of candidates for the last several months. Taking cognizance of their protest and demand, the chief minister gave instructions to basic education department for a speedy and an equitable solution to the problem, according to a tweet from chief minister’s office. It took the state government two years to wrap up the appointment process of 69,000 assistant teachers in government primary and upper primary schools across UP. Posts were advertised in December 2018 and the state government could complete the appointment only in December 2020, after a long-drawn legal battle in the high court and the Supreme Court after some candidates filed a lawsuit. The chief minister had distributed appointment letters to select new recruits in October and December and even interacted with them while others received them from local MLAs, MPs and ministers in the Yogi government in their respective districts. Soon after that, hundreds of candidates who could not make into 69,000 teachers recruitment conducted by the state government staged demonstrations in the state capital, alleging foul play by the basic education department officials as they did not adhere to the reservation policy, protesters claimed. These candidates claimed that the department gave only 3.86% reservations against 27% and in Scheduled Caste category 16.6% reservations were given against 21%. Likewise, in OBC category, against 18,598 candidates only 2,637 were selected. All this amounts to gross violation of reservation policy. They alleged that rules were violated in the teachers’ recruitment. The protesters recently took out a candle light march from 1090 Crossing to the chief minister’s residence. However, the police resorted to lathi charge. The opposition parties had slammed the police lathi charge on the protesting aspiring teachers in the state capital when they started their candle light march and headed towards the chief minister’s office at Kalidas Marg.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/discrepancy-in-teachers-recruitment-6-000-reserved-category-candidates-to-be-appointed-in-uttar-pradesh-101640373390866.html
25-12-2021||Pune||Pune food vendors to increase prices after FDA bans newspaper use in packaging||Pune: After the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) in Maharashtra issued orders instructing food vendors to not use newspaper for wrapping of food items as it is harmful for customers due to the ink used, city-based food stalls, snacks centres and sweet shop owners have decided to use blank white paper for wrapping and it will increase the cost of food items. FDA issued the order for Pune on December 22 and launched random checking of food stall and snack centres across the city. “Despite hike in fuel prices causing rise in cost of oil and other raw materials, we did not change the cost of food items. However, the latest FDA order has left us with no alternative but to increase price by 10 per cent to 15 per cent as plain white paper costs around ₹60 per kg. We have decided to increase the food item rates from January 1, 2022 at our shop,” said Sagar Galande, owner of a sweet mart shop on Shivaji road. Mahesh Chavan, secretary of small-scale food vendors association in Pune, said, “There are more than 2,000 small food vendors which include shops, street vendors, hawkers and other food item stalls that daily use newspapers for food wrapping. And some of the food items like bhel, vada pav and chaat items are given only in newspapers for wrapping and parcel delivery. Using white paper leaves us no option other than increase the food rates.” Currently on average the cost of food items sold and packed in newspapers costs around ₹10 to ₹40 depending of items like bhel, vada pav, samosa and kachori, sweet items, bakery items and other things. As old newspapers are sold at cheap rates from scrap dealers, shop owners find it affordable. Using white papers or thin plastic bags for packaging will lead to rise in cost of snacks for customers. Talking about the harmful effects of newspaper ink, Dr Kailash Mistry said, “The ink used to print newspapers are made of chemicals and it contaminates the food which is wrapped inside it. It causes many people to suffer of stomach issues or vomiting. Also, stomach infection can be caused after consuming such harmful food items packed in newspapers.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pune-food-vendors-to-increase-prices-after-fda-bans-newspaper-use-in-packaging-101640373389617.html
25-12-2021||Pune||Rise in active Covid cases in Pune district||Pune: As Maharashtra crosses the mark of 130 million vaccination, there is a gradual rise in active Covid cases since the past few weeks. A similar trend is seen in Pune city as well as per the data released by the state health department. Medical experts suggest that with increasing cases of Omicron variant, citizens should take utmost precautions to keep themselves safe. On Friday, six more patients tested positive for Omicron variant in Pune taking the tally to 41. On Thursday, Pune district reported 13 new cases of Omicron variant, the highest number of Omicron cases. 20 new cases of Omicron were reported in Maharashtra on Friday taking the total to 108. Dr Sanjay Patil, former president of Indian Medical Association (IMA) Pune chapter, said the government should take initiative for booster doses for healthcare workers. “IMA members checked their spike protein antibodies in October. As compared to April, the antibodies were less in number. Since healthcare workers were the first set of beneficiaries to receive the vaccine, they should be given priority for booster dose now. Also, healthcare workers will be more exposed to Covid if the cases increase in the third wave,” said Dr Patil. Along with healthcare workers, senior citizens, high-risk patients should also be given priority for booster dose vaccination. According to the health department of Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC), active cases of Covid on December 2 were 868. As of December 24, the active cases in Pune city are 942. On Friday, over 47,000 beneficiaries were vaccinated in Pune district. So far, over 86 lakh beneficiaries have received the first dose and over 61 lakh the second dose. On Thursday, Maharashtra reached the mark of 130 million vaccination. State additional chief secretary Dr Pradeep Vyas said on Thursday that so far Maharashtra has administered 130,075,106 Covid vaccine doses. “Over 50 million individuals have received both the doses of Covid vaccine that is 55.47 per cent of the eligible population and over 79 million individuals have received at least one dose of the vaccine that is 86.76% of the eligible population in Maharashtra,” said Vyas.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/rise-in-active-covid-cases-in-pune-district-101640373383138.html
25-12-2021||Mumbai||Speaker’s election: MVA prepares for showdown as BJP cries foul over timing, change in rules||MUMBAI: With the opposition Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) crying foul over the timing of the Speaker’s election, the ruling Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA) coalition is preparing for a showdown on the floor of the assembly on December 28. The BJP has questioned the timing of the Speaker’s election as 12 of its MLAs have been suspended for unruly conduct. Besides, the party says it was not consulted by the government before finalising the date of the election.Wary of cross-voting from its ranks, the MVA government has amended the rules for the Speaker’s election by allowing open voting instead of secret ballot. This will eliminate chances of sabotage as legislators who vote against the party whip will stand to face disciplinary action and will get disqualified. Senior MVA ministers said that the elections will be announced on Monday, and will take place on Tuesday which is the last day of the ongoing winter session of the legislature.Congress legislators Amin Patel, Sangram Thopte and Suresh Warpudkar and former chief minister Prithviraj Chavan are among those being considered for the post. There are also chances that a Congress minister might be asked to quit and be fielded for this position with Nana Patole replacing him in the cabinet.Leader of the opposition Devendra Fadnavis and senior BJP legislator Sudhir Mungantiwar questioned how the Speaker’s election could be announced when the issue of 12 opposition legislators being suspended for unruly conduct was pending in the Supreme Court. “How can the election take place in this situation? The voters (suspended MLAs) will not be allowed to vote and the rules have also been changed,” said Mungantiwar, adding that a government should to work within the confines of the Constitution. Fadnavis reminded the ruling side that the 12 legislators had requested reduction in their suspension period as suggested in the Supreme Court and hoped that a decision on the same would be taken before the Speaker’s election. The BJP has challenged the suspension in the apex court.The BJP also objected to the decision to hold the Speaker’s election by open or voice voting instead of secret ballot. However, Prithviraj Chavan, who is a member of the rules committee of the state legislature, said that this was as per the convention in Parliament and other state legislatures. Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) leader and minority welfare minister Nawab Malik said that these rules for the election had been amended by the rules committee and approved by the house. “The rights of the legislature are supreme… no one can try to curb them,” he said, while responding to the BJP’s charges. Malik said that the government had the support of over 170 legislators in the 288-member house.Meanwhile, MVA ministers said that they had changed the rules to ensure that governor B S Koshyari, with whom the regime has a running battle, was only ‘informed’ about the election as against earlier when he both finalised and notified the date.Asked about the authority of the governor being curbed in the electoral process, Malik said, “Those occupying Constitutional positions have authority and also limitations to this authority. There is a system of checks and balances.” Malik pointed at how Koshyari had written to the legislature secretariat earlier this year about holding elections to the post. He added that a reference had been made to the governor about the elections. In February, Speaker Nana Patole resigned after being chosen as the president of the Maharashtra Pradesh Congress Committee (MPCC) and Narhari Zirwal of the Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) has been the deputy Speaker since.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/speakers-election-mva-prepares-for-showdown-as-bjp-cries-foul-over-timing-change-in-rules-101640372901426.html
25-12-2021||Lucknow||BSP gearing up to contest UP polls with full might: Mishra||PRAYAGRAJ: National general secretary of Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) Satish Chandra Mishra said on Friday that the party was gearing up to contest the coming assembly elections in the state with its full might. He said that for the reserved seats of Prayagraj division, the party was also busy holding small meetings with leaders and workers of these constituencies. Mishra was in Prayagraj to participate in the divisional-level convention of the BSP at Sardar Patel Seva Sansthan in Alopibagh. UP has 86 reserved seats, with 84 reserved for Scheduled Castes (SCs) and two for Scheduled Tribes (STs). In Prayagraj, three out of the 12 assembly constituencies, including Koraon, Bara and Soraon, are reserved for SC. Addressing party workers, Mishra said that people were very enthusiastic about the BSP as they had seen the quality of governance when the party was in power in the state. People still recalled the development works as well as the law and order situation that prevailed in UP when BSP president Mayawati was the chief minister. The jobs offered to the youth were still fresh in the memory of the people and they were strongly standing behind the BSP, he said. “The BSP will surely form the government in the state this time. People are fed up of the Yogi Adityanath government and every section of the society is angry with the BJP as it has dragged the state into darkness,” he claimed. Coming down hard on the Samajwadi Party (SP), Mishra said that the poor state of affairs in UP during the SP regime was known to all. “This time the BSP is moving ahead taking everyone with it, on the principle of “Bahujan Sukhaya Bahujan Hitaya” (public welfare lies in the happiness of the masses).” On the Allahabad high court requesting PM Narendra Modi and the Election Commission to consider postponement of UP elections for 1 or 2 months considering rising cases of Omicron variant of Covid-19, BSP national general secretary Satish Chandra Mishra said that it would not be appropriate for him to comment on it. “This is the Election Commission of India’s prerogative,” he said. Mishra, however, did point out that the high court had simply given an advice and not issued any order in this regard. He also refrained from commenting on the state government decision of re-imposing night curfew and restrictions on gatherings at marriage and other functions in view of the re-emergence of pandemic threat.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/bsp-gearing-up-to-contest-up-polls-with-full-might-mishra-101640372841691.html
25-12-2021||Other||NCR punctuality improves to 86.65%, Agra div tops chart||PRAYAGRAJ: Several steps taken by North Central Railway (NCR) authorities have helped in improving the punctuality of trains from 42.05 % (in 2015-16) to 86.65% (in 2021-22) in the NCR zone. “Re-modelling of stations, yards, and converting passenger trains into mail/express trains, besides electrification of several routes, change of rakes in select trains, upgrade of speed from 90kmph to 130kmph in last five years have helped immensely to improve the punctuality in all the three divisions under NCR,” said chief public relation officer of NCR, Shivam Sharma. In division wise punctuality, Agra division of NCR tops the chart. From April 1 to December 18, the punctuality percentage of Agra was over 95%. In terms of Prayagraj division, the punctuality percent in 2015-16 was 35.76% which steadily improved to 84.37%. Likewise, the punctuality percent of Jhansi in 2015-16 was 62.09% which also improved to 88.48%, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ncr-punctuality-improves-to-86-65-agra-div-tops-chart-101640372782530.html
25-12-2021||Pune||Pune district reports 250 new Covid cases, two deaths||As per the state health authorities, Pune district has reported 250 more Covid positive cases and two deaths in 24 hours. Both the deaths were reported from Pune rural. Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) has so far reported 525,052 Covid cases and 9,238 deaths till Friday. Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC) has reported 270,824 cases and 3,520 Covid deaths. Pune rural has reported 369,293 total cases and 7,020 deaths. In Pune district, there are a total of 1,165,169 Covid cases. Of this, 1,143,151 patients have recovered. There has been a total of 20,128 deaths in the district. And at present, there are 1,890 active cases in Pune district. As per the state health department, 868 patients were discharged on Friday in Maharashtra taking the total to 6,500,375 in the state. The recovery rate in the state is 97.69%. Across Maharashtra, 1,410 new cases of Covid were diagnosed on Friday and 12 Covid deaths were reported on Friday. The case fatality rate in the state is 2.12%. The state health department stated that of 68,235,476 laboratory samples, 6,654,755 have been tested positive till Friday. That is 9.75% of patients till Friday. Currently, 86,815 people are in home quarantine and 886 in institutional quarantine.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pune-district-reports-250-new-covid-cases-two-deaths-101640372781416.html
25-12-2021||Mumbai||Shiv Sena objects to ‘meow’ taunt against Aaditya Thackeray, legislative council seeks report on incident||MUMBAI: A day after opposition legislators including Bharatiya Janata Party’s (BJP’s) Nitesh Rane allegedly mocked Shiv Sena leader and cabinet minister Aaditya Thackeray on the premises of Vidhan Bhavan, Sena legislator Manisha Kayande has raised objection in the legislative council and sought an apology from the legislators found guilty of misbehaviour. While deputy chairperson Neelam Gorhe has asked the parliamentary affairs department to inquire into the incident and report to the chairman of the council.When Aaditya Thackeray entered the Vidhan Bhavan premises on Thursday while the opposition legislators were protesting on the stairs of the legislature building, a ‘meow’ sound was allegedly made apparently to mock the Sena leader.A day after the incident, Sena legislator Kayande said, “There is a certain decorum and discipline maintained in the house. The same is expected in the premises of Vidhan Bhavan, which is a temple for all of us... When a minister passed, cat sounds were made. I do not want to name anybody but this is not appropriate. We should not tolerate it. The member must publicly apologise.”While deputy chairperson Gorhe said, “The chairman and speaker have the power to look into what happened inside both houses and outside. The parliamentary affairs minister must get information on this matter, whether cat sounds were made and by whom. I direct the parliamentary affairs minister to take cognisance of it.” Minister of state for parliamentary affairs Sanjay Bansode called the matter ‘extremely serious’.The issue came up in the assembly as well. Sena legislator Sunil Prabhu who raised the issue of the behaviour of legislators demanded action against those who insult other members. Opposition leader Devendra Fadnavis supported his stand saying that the members needed to maintain decorum in the legislature premises.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/shiv-sena-objects-to-meow-taunt-against-aaditya-thackeray-legislative-council-seeks-report-on-incident-101640372661455.html
25-12-2021||Delhi||Christmas a muted affair this year too in Delhi||Amid concerns over the Omicron variant of the coronavirus and a rise in Covid-19 cases, Christmas celebrations will be a muted affair in the Capital for the second year in a row, as most churches have directed parishioners to attend mass online on Saturday. Some churches will, however, go ahead with the Christmas mass with a 50% cap on visitors.Churches in Delhi have taken steps to avoid large gatherings after Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) issued guidelines on Wednesday, banning Christmas and New Year celebrations in the Capital even as it allowed religious places to remain open for prayers and visitors. The order allowed devotees to offer prayers at churches in compliance with Covid-19 protocols. Reverend Mohit Hitter, presbyter-in-charge of the Cathedral Church of the Redemption in New Delhi’s North Avenue, said that church services will be streamed online this year as well. “We will not have a mass for the public,given the current restrictions and protocol. The service will be streamed on our YouTube channel and only the technical team and people involved in the service will be present in person,” said Hitter. Last year, too, the church held the service online as it shared videos of carols and other Christmas activities with the parishioners. The St James’ Church in Kashmere Gate, the oldest church in Delhi, also plans to hold virtual mass for parishioners. “We have a responsibility towards each other. If cases are rising, we need take precautions and avoid large gatherings. Christmas will come next year as well. Keeping in mind everyone’s safety, we are allowing very few people to attend the service physically, the others will watch it online,” said Reverend Prateek Pillai, Presbyter in-charge of St James’ Church.Meanwhile, some churches have set a 50% cap on those attending Christmas mass physically.At the Christ Methodist Church near Tis Hazari, which has a seating capacity of 400, around 250 people were expected to take part in the service on Christmas Eve. Reverend Samson R Nath, the priest-in-charge of the Christ Methodist Church, said Covid-19 protocols will be followed during the in-person service. “Around 250 people will be present within the church, whereas for others, the order of service will be streamed online. There will be recitation of Christmas carols in remembrance of Christ, and the pastor’s prayers,” said Nath, adding that Christmas Eve before the pandemic used to be a busy affair at the church with people from other states also joining the service. “In non-pandemic years, we used to see many people from other states as well. While we are expecting many people to turn up due to the festival, the number will be capped and not go beyond a certain number in compliance with the prevailing norms. We will be in touch with the police authorities as well so that things take place as per the norms,” he said. Like last year, a number of virtual Christmas music concerts, on social media channels including YouTube, have already taken place.Royall McLaren, director at Delhi Christian Chorus, the oldest choir group in the Capital, said that as the activities moved online, virtual concerts reached a much larger audience. “We presented our virtual concert earlier this month. Last year, we had a much shorter preparation with only a handful of songs. This time, however, we conducted a complete concert virtually with around 14 songs,” said McLaren.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/christmas-a-muted-affair-this-year-too-in-delhi-101640372541492.html
25-12-2021||Noida||Five manufacturing units to soon start operations near Noida airport in Jewar||The Yamuna Expressway Industrial Development Authority (Yeida) on Friday said at least five big manufacturing units will soon start operations near the Noida international airport at Jewar along the Yamuna Expressway. A mobile manufacturing unit is about to finish construction work and is likely to start operations in Sector 24. Three other units, which deal with packing material, food products and printing, will become operational in Sector 29 and one unit that is into product labelling is set to become functional in Sector 32 next year. The mobile manufacturing unit alone is expected to create at least 7,000 jobs. The four other units will create around 8,000 jobs.“We hope these five units start operations in 2022 and employ at least 15,000 people in the first phase. The employment generation will grow in the time to come and will boost growth in urban areas along the Yamuna Expressway,” said Arun Vir Singh CEO of Yeida. On April 24, 2001, the Uttar Pradesh government established Yeida for development in areas between Greater Noida and Agra. The objective was to set up industries to generate employment and develop urban areas. Around 2.5 lakh hectares from 1,187 villages of six districts--Gautam Budh Nagar, Bulandshahar, Aligarh, Hathras, Mathura and Agra--were notified under Yeida. However, the authority has been able to acquire only 16,000 hectares of land along the expressway. The five units will be the first ones to start operations here because before them, no other factory could start operations amid the slowdown in the market, said officials.Yeida officials said now, since the Noida International airport has become a reality and the work at the site is in full swing, the region will witness unprecedented growth in the time to come.“Since 2017, the authority allotted at least 1,940 plots under different categories, thereby selling at least 1,200 acres of land to different companies for setting up businesses. We have raised ₹7,500 crore revenue in the last 4.5 years from the sale of plots for industrial purposes. After the airport work started gaining momentum, the demand for industrial land has increased manifold,” said an Yeida official, requesting anonymity.The authority is set to bring one more industrial plot scheme for interested investors.“The Yeida must expedite work on providing basic facilities as soon as possible in this region so that investors can set up their businesses here. The authority should also resolve farmers’ dispute as it hampers growth,” said Rishabh Nigam, president of Yamuna Expressway entrepreneur association.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/five-manufacturing-units-to-soon-start-operations-near-noida-airport-in-jewar-101640372421402.html
25-12-2021||Delhi||Delhi: Mehrauli restaurant sealed for violating Covid protocols||A day after Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) banned New Year and Christmas gatherings and congregations, a popular restaurant in south Delhi’s Mehrauli was sealed for allegedly organising a gathering of around 600 people in violation of Covid-19 protocols on Thursday night.A district official, requesting anonymity, said authorities dispersed the crowd and sealed the premises.DDMA has capped seating capacity in restaurants and bars in Delhi at 50% and is strictly enforcing the restrictions in the wake of a surge in Covid-19 cases.“As part of a series of inspections conducted in view of the latest DDMA orders to prohibit large congregations and imposing a 50% cap on the total capacity in restaurants and bars, a flying squad from the South district went for a surprise inspection at one of Mehrauli’s renowned restaurants where they found a large gathering of around 600 persons. The club had organised an event in complete violation of prevalent Covid-19 protocols,” the district authority said in a statement.“Immediately, the Tehsildar (Mehrauli) dispersed the crowd and sealed the premises on the spot for gross violation of DDMA guidelines, especially in the wake of emerging Omicron variant of Covid-19,” an official said.Additional deputy commissioner of police (south) Harsha Vardhan Mandava said: “A restaurant named Diablo was found violating DDMA guidelines. There was overcrowding in the restaurant. FIR u/s 188, 269 IPC has been registered against the establishment at PS Mehrauli. The premises were also sealed.”Priyank Sukhija, the owner of the restaurant, refuted the allegation of there being 600 people on the premises, and said there the number of people was slightly more than 50% of the restaurant’s 280 seating capacity. “The manager was not aware of the recent restrictions. We will ensure that this will never happen again, and we are ready to pay the fine. The videos being circulated on social media have also captured the footage of the guests outside the restaurant,” Sukhija told HT.The district authorities have again directed all restaurants to follow the guidelines in letter and spirit and ensure they don’t become super spreaders.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhimehrauli-restaurant-sealed-for-violating-covid-protocols-101640372302733.html
25-12-2021||Mumbai||BMC completes restoration of 122-year-old TB hospital||Mumbai After a two-year work, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation’s (BMC) heritage department has now completed restoration of the 122-year-old tuberculosis (TB) hospital building near Grant Road in South Mumbai. The ground-storey structure is at the junction of Balaram Street and Alibhai Premji Road near Rusi Mehta Chowk. Constructed in 1899, this is part of the civic body’s comprehensive plan to restore heritage structures across the city.This restoration project has been different from most others undertaken by the heritage department over the past few years, as it involved reconstructing the original elements of the hospital building - such as the front porch, corridors circling the external side of the building, and extensions of the Mangalorean pitch roof. The front porch was demolished over 60 years ago during the road widening, while the semi-open corridors were walled in either with concrete or an iron protective grill. Part of the Mangalorean pitch roof was replaced with asbestos during haphazard repair over the years.BMC found old blueprints that showed designs for the front porch, but restoring the corridors and the pitch roof extension had to be done after careful study and ‘detective’ work.Pankaj Kathole, the heritage conservation architect who worked on the project, said, “We found an old blueprint of the building that shows a front porch. However, while restoring the corridors, we found grooves on the floor, that indicated wooden columns could fit in, and also found grooves along the external wall, just under the roof. This led to the idea that there have been semi-open corridors. The wooden beams and corridors were then restored, and the Mangalorean pitch roof over these was replaced.”A senior civic official from the heritage department said, “We assume the porch was used as a drive-through and bullock carts used to be pulled in here to drop off patients. At some point in time, this was partially demolished due to road widening. The other part was converted into a storage room, and locked.”In 2016, during a survey of the city’s buildings, BMC had declared that the TB hospital was dilapidated. As the building is a Grade 2B heritage structure, the heritage cell planned its restoration.The building is made of Malad sandstone and has a triple-arched beach roof made of Mangalorean tiles. The structure’s brownish golden stone has been arranged in a rare honeycomb pattern. The cornerstones of all rooms are made in black basalt stone. According to BMC’s heritage cell, the original building had arched doors and windows made of Burma teak wood. It has circular windows below the roof.The official said, “Over the years, patchwork repairs diminished the building’s original charm. The inside walls were lined with white tiles and extensive use of cement, which acts as a corrosive agent on the stone. The wooden doors and windows were either replaced with modern aluminium sliding windows or were painted over in odd colours.”BMC raised the entire height of the building by nine inches to deal with the monsoon waterlogging, the dilapidated part of the wooden pitch roof was reconstructed and refitted with the Mangalorean tiles. The height of the external corridor was also increased to match the increased road height over the years.Moreover, all of this work was done while the hospital continued to cater to TB patients. Pankaj Kathole said, “We took over half the building and completed work on it, while the other half continued to operate as a hospital.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/bmc-completes-restoration-of-122-year-old-tb-hospital-101640372301649.html
25-12-2021||Dehradun||Uttarakhand minister Harak Singh storms out of cabinet meeting, says I resign||Dehradun: Uttarakhand minister Harak Singh Rawat stormed out of a cabinet meeting late on Friday reportedly upset over alleged “government inaction” over a proposed medical college in his constituency of Kotdwar, declaring his intention to resign from the cabinet, people familiar with the development said.Rawat flagged delay in approval to a proposed medical college in his constituency of Kotdwar during the cabinet meeting chaired by chief minister Pushkar Singh Dhami. According to officials present at the meeting, it led to an argument between the two.“The argument heated up as Rawat alleged that development projects in his constituency are not being approved in conspiracy. He then stormed out of the meeting saying, ‘There is no use of being a minister, I am leaving the cabinet’,” said one official.Cabinet minister and government spokesperson Subodh Uniyal and BJP party state president Madan Kaushik later insisted that Harak Singh Rawat, a seven-time MLA, hadn’t resigned.Uniyal said he had “no information about his resignation”. “But he was unhappy over an issue related to a proposed medical college in his constituency as apart from being a minister, he is also an MLA,” the cabinet spokesperson said.Kaushik said the party will speak with him and resolve any issues that Rawat had about his constituency. “Nobody has resigned from the party,” he said.Phone calls and texts to Harak Singh Rawat for comment went unanswered.Rawat is considered to have played a key role in the rebellion of nine Congress MLAs in 2016 who switched to the Bharatiya Janata Party, before he also signed up in 2017. Harak Singh Rawat’s exit from the Congress had hugely contributed to the collapse of Harish Rawat’s government in 2017. But there have been swirling rumours over the last few months that Harak Singh, a Thakur leader from the Garhwal region who first became an MLA in 1991, was looking at exiting the BJP.It was in context of this speculation that Harish Rawat appeared to raise the bar for letting former Congress leaders return to the party, demanding that they will have to give a public apology before being considered.Harak Singh Rawat reached out to the Congress leader soon after, persuading Harish Rawat to tone down his pitch. “In disasters, even animals come together then why not two brothers,” Harish Rawat said, reciprocating to the Uttarakhand minister declaring Harish was his “elder brother” and his “place is always at his (Harish Rawat) feet.”The conciliatory tone between bitter rivals further triggered concerns in the Uttarakhand BJP that there was a possibility that Harak Singh Rawat could head back to the Congress. BJP leaders have denied such a possibility, reaching out to Harak Singh Rawat to mollify him.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/dehradun-news/uttarakhand-minister-harak-singh-storms-out-of-cabinet-meeting-says-i-resign-101640372183936.html
25-12-2021||Mumbai||Transpersons in Palghar to get ₹1k pension every month||Transgender persons in Palghar district are set to receive monthly pension of ₹1,000 as part of the Centre’s Sanjay Gandhi Pension Scheme, making this the first district in Maharashtra to do so, district collector Dr Manik Gursal said.“We are nearly finishing a survey to identify eligible transgender persons in the district, and we have managed to identify 100. Hopefully, pension will be started within a month or two,” Gursal said. The district has set up a four-member team, comprising the civil surgeon, a gynecologist, a psychiatrist and a medical officer to issue transgender identity cards, which is one of the requirements mandated by the Transgender Persons (Protection of Rights) Act for transpersons to receive benefits and to ensure that other documentation can be brought in line with the transperson’s gender identity. Vaibhav Sankhe a social activist from Boisar is assisting the collector’s office in issuing the cards.Arti,a transgender person from Boisar said the ID cards would “help us gain access to various government schemes and help us gain respect in the society.”In 2014, the Supreme Court of India passed a landmark judgment affirming an individual’s right to choose their gender identity. In 2019, it passed a law that sought to ensure that transpersons receive their Constitutional rights; the act, however, has been critiqued for deviating from the spirit of the 2014 SC judgment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/transpersons-in-palghar-to-get-1k-pension-every-month-101640372182746.html
25-12-2021||Delhi||Task force essential to stop dengue outbreak: Delhi HC||Noting that no corrective measures were taken by authorities to prevent the increase in dengue cases, the Delhi high court on Friday directed all civic bodies to constitute a task force headed by their commissioners to take steps to prevent the city from “being infested by mosquitoes”. A bench of justices Vipin Sanghi and Jasmeet Singh came down heavily on the authorities, adding that someone must take responsibility for the rise in cases. “On paper, on file, you will pass orders that there should be no breeding. But will the mosquitoes stop breeding if you mention it on the files… But there is nothing on the ground… It is a regular cycle... How can it be that the [cases] more than double in one year? If you are being so proactive if you have taken measures… People of Delhi continue to suffer,” the court said. The bench, while hearing a plea it initiated regarding the mosquito menace in the city, said that civic bodies cannot use excessive rain as an excuse for their failure to prevent several deaths caused by vector-borne diseases. “You want to put the entire blame on excessive rain. That means we are then left to the Gods. That is only giving excuses… You need to put the responsibility on some person. If the numbers don’t come down, that person should be liable for contempt action,” the court said. While expressing its displeasure regarding the “inaction of the authorities”, the court said, “Every year, for the past 20 years, we are suffering the same thing. And nothing seems to happen. Why does the Commissioner not take the moral responsibility and tender his resignation? What prevents him?” The court asked if the civic bodies required more force on the ground to complete their tasks. “Maybe you need a larger force to do this checking. You need more people on the ground. There should be proper monitoring of those who are put to tasks. Probably there is no supervision… Probably because the top man is sitting in his air-conditioned office in the months of July or August when this is spreading...,” the court observed. Expressing its concern on the enormity of the problems due to mosquito-borne diseases such as malaria and chikungunya, the court said that it is high time that the matter is taken up seriously by all the local bodies. It directed that each of the local bodies, including east, south and north MCDs, Delhi Cantonment Board and New Delhi Municipal Council, set up task forces headed by their commissioners to monitor and control mosquito breeding. It that members of the task forces must visit the sites, ensuring that actual work is being carried out on the ground and asked the authorities to file a common status report before the next date of hearing on January 14. During the hearing, the court also said that a stern message should be sent across the city that any violation of bylaws will be dealt with strictly. It directed the Delhi government to initiate the process of amending its bylaws to increase the penalty for people who do not keep their surroundings clean and allow water to stagnate leading to mosquito breeding. The court noted that at present, there is a paltry fine, up to ₹500, for this violation. “Looking at the laid back attitude of people, you need more teeth. Your fine amount is only ₹500,” it said. Appearing for the North and South MCDs, counsel Divya Prakash Pande told the court that a mobile application was created for logging visits by the MCD employees, which enables the authority to check whether the staff actually visited the site. The court appointed advocate Rajat Aneja as an amicus curiae to assist it in the mosquito disease-related matters. It said that authorities have become so populist in their approach that they make policies only in populist ways and are scared of doing anything that will lose their votes. 
25-12-2021||Lucknow||Covid-19 cases rising,still the defiant keep masks in pockets||LUCKNOW: New Covid-19 cases are on the rise in state once again, but people can still be seen wandering around unmasked and unmindful of the infection, something that experts say can cause a sudden spurt in the number of patients. On December 21, Uttar Pradesh reported 23 new cases and the next day 21 new cases. On December 23, there were 31 new cases and on December 24, the state reported 49 fresh cases, highest since December 18 when there were 33 new cases. “One in five attendants reaches the trauma centre emergency or OPD without mask. Before starting treatment, we have to convince them to wear a mask, at times strictly,” said Dr Samir Misra, senior faculty, trauma surgery department, King George’s Medical University. “At public places or in parties, the commonest unseemly practice is to carry a mask but, in the pocket,” said Dr PK Gupta, former president, Indian Medical Association, Lucknow. Earlier, the careless attitude of people saw results in the form of fine. Over 55 lakh people were fined by police across the state for not wearing masks during the previous Covid waves. Lucknow Commissioner of Police (CP) DK Thakur said, “The city police will re-launch the drive aggressively and fine people if major violation of Covid protocols is seen.” Not only were 55 lakh people fined but action was also initiated against over 5 lakh during strict enforcement of restrictions imposed due to outbreak of corona virus across the state between March and July this year, said the data from the police department. Experts said people had to learn to trust the use of mask to protect themselves and others. “A mask, in addition to social distance, creates a physical barrier against respiratory droplets containing virus. Also, when an infected person sneezes, it restricts droplets from infecting others,” said Dr Abhishek Shukla, secretary general, Association of International Doctors.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/covid19-cases-rising-still-the-defiant-keep-masks-in-pockets-101640372121486.html
25-12-2021||Delhi||Contempt action by Delhi HC against cop, NDMC staff over Sarojini crowd||Taking note of overcrowding due to the rampant encroachment of hawkers in the Sarojini Nagar market, the Delhi high court on Friday initiated contempt proceedings against the station house officer (SHO) concerned and the enforcement officer of the New Delhi Municipal Council (NDMC) for their failure to limit the number of vendors to 80.Terming the sight of hundreds of people thronging the Sarojini Nagar market and pushing each other in a viral video as “frightening” and “eerie”, a bench comprising justices Vipin Sanghi and Jasmeet Singh said that there could a be possible stampede, leading to several deaths.“We have seen the video… Covid-19 or no Covid-19, the situation is eerie. There can be a stampede where hundreds of people can die… And don’t tell us that this is state-managed. Hundreds of people are pushing each other...” justice Sanghi said.The court also said that the area is vulnerable to terror attacks. In 2005, 62 people had died and over 200 were injured when several bomb blasts had taken place in the market.The court said that there was a blatant breach of its orders to limit the number of vendors to 80.“There has also been a bomb blast in the area. Just think even if a small bomb was to go off, how many people will die because of this and because of the stampede...God forbid something like this happens,” justice Sanghi said.While hearing a plea by the shopkeepers’ association of the market against illegal vendors and encroachments, the court directed the Delhi Disaster Management Authority to visit the market and assess the situation on the ground.On October 8, while hearing the plea filed by advocate Kajal Chandra, the court limited the number of vendors to 80 taking note of the fact that there are 200 shops in the market in accordance with the Master Plan of Delhi-2021.Pulling up the NDMC and the city police for their failure to restrict the number of vendors to 80, the court rejected the claims of the SHO, Sarojini Nagar, that action has been taken to stop the encroachment of vendors.“This is something that has to be done every day. You may say that everyday this is being done, but we can’t shut our eyes. Should we believe what we are saying or should we believe what you are telling us? Eighty thousand people will go to a market where a large number of people are selling their goods. If you restrict the number of vendors, the number of buyers will also be restricted. Moreover, it will allow people to circulate,” the court said.The bench said that even in the viral video, squatters are seen displaying their goods in a larger than permissible area. It sought to know from the enforcement officer as to why no one was complying with judicial orders to curb encroachment.“What have you done about the squatters? We have made it clear that you will not allow anyone to encroach [space], including shopkeepers? If any shopkeeper is encroaching the land, you will wait for our orders to remove him? You will not remove him on your own? Do we have to give directions? What is happening? You’re saying in order for you to perform your functions, you need an order from us,” the court said.It directed the authorities to install poles with chains and mark the floors with white paint so as to specify the area within which the shopkeepers and squatters can operate. The bench also ordered that no goods must be left at the site at night and must be removed on a daily basis.“If you think you can so brazenly violate the orders of the high court, then we will tell you what we can do. If there is any loss of life because of Covid-19 or stampede or any other incident in this market, you persons will be personally liable for that. Because we know when you want to do something, nothing can stop you from that. The state, municipality, police, enough power is there with you to take action,” justice Sanghi told the SHO and the officer of NDMC.Seeing the video and photos of the crowded market, the court said that there was absolutely no improvement in the situation on the ground. It directed the police to work out a movement plan for the people who visit the market.It directed that the goods seized from illegal hawkers and vendors will not be released to them without the court’s permission.“The purpose of permitting street vendors whose goods have been seized under sec. 19(1) to be reclaimed as goods after paying such fee as prescribed in the scheme, cannot be to perpetuate openly an illegality but also a breach of the orders of this court,” the court said.“If you were to implement our orders, don’t permit squatters who do not have valid licences, there would be no such problem,” it added.Appearing for the Delhi government, additional standing counsel Naushad Ahmed Khan told the court that the situation is very grim with the increasing number of cases. He said that there is no compliance by the enforcement authorities in curtailing the overcrowding or the encroachment. He also proposed the odd-even opening of shops to restrict the number of visitors to the market.The counsel for the petitioner, advocate Chandra, said that customers are not being able to reach the shop due to the crowd.The court directed the authorities that no overcrowding is permitted and all the Covid-19 protocols laid down for the marketplaces must be followed.The matter will now be heard on January 17.
25-12-2021||Delhi||Delhi: SDMC seals 4 liquor shops in Najafgarh over building violations||The South Delhi Municipal Corporation (SDMC) sealed four liquor shops in Najafgarh on Friday, citing violations related to building norms. “Teams from the corporation have been inspecting liquor shops and we will continue to take sealing action if any irregularities are found,” SDMC mayor Mukesh Suryan said. Satpal Malik, the chairman of the Najafgarh zone, said that the sealed liquor shops are located in Kakrola, Nangli, Sakrawati and Rajapuri areas.Over the last three weeks, the three municipal corporations have been carrying out special drives to check the documents of liquor shops opening in the city according to the new excise policy. All three corporations have passed resolutions against the new excise policy during the last month. Last week, the north corporation said that five liquor vends were sealed while notices were issued to 18 units. The north MCD building department teams sealed three liquor shops in Civil Lines and one outlet each in Karol Bagh and Rohini.The East Delhi Municipal Corporation (EDMC) also sealed three liquor outlets on December 10, 2021, while citing Unified Building Byelaws (UBBL) violations in C-Block DDA market, Dilshad Garden and GTB Enclave where eleven DDA shops were merged to create three liquor shops without any approval from the municipal corporation.Delhi moved to a new excise regime from November 17, 2021. Both Bharatiya Janata Party and Congress have opposed the new excise policy over the last month while Aam Aadmi Party functionaries have repeatedly argued that the parties are trying to deflect attention from the misgovernance in the BJP-led municipal corporations.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhisdmcseals-4-liquor-shops-in-najafgarh-over-building-violations-101640371883881.html
25-12-2021||Delhi||Delhi south civic body contractors’ union on strike due to unpaid dues||The South Delhi Municipal Corporation (SDMC) contractors’ union began a protest on Friday at the Civic Centre on Minto Road claiming that it has been not paid around ₹450 crore for the last three years.Netra Kumar Sharma, who heads the contractors’ union, said, “If the funds are not released in the next 15 days, we will start gheraoing officials and municipal functionaries.”In a memorandum submitted to the SDMC municipal commissioner last month, the All SDMC Contractor Association stated that they have stopped all engineering works until they are paid.Sharma said that they held several rounds of meetings with municipal functionaries but found no resolution to the problem. “No new payment has been cleared for works carried out since 2019. Civil works worth ₹450 crore have been completed and contractors are not being paid. Forget about the 10-15% profit margin, even our capital investment is getting destroyed,” he added.The civil works said the union has not been paid for include road carpeting, their repair, new drains, school building development, the construction of a yoga centre, among other engineering-related projects.Over the last month, several municipal councillors complained that the developmental work in the run-up to elections can be stalled. Municipal elections in Delhi are staled to be held next year. Mahesh, an SDMC standing committee member and Bharatiya Janata Party councillor from Molarband, said that roads in his area have been dug up and the condition of his areas is bad. “Their payments have not been made since 2019. How will they work without any money? This will affect our poll prospects. Where is all the money from the corporation going?” he said.A senior official from the engineering department said that there is a financial crisis in the civic body and the corporation tries to release part of the payment on a monthly basis but the pending liabilities have accumulated a lot in the last few years. “It has been reviewed even at the commissioner level but we don’t have money to release immediately,” the official said, requesting anonymity.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-south-civic-body-contractors-union-on-strike-due-to-unpaid-dues-101640371761246.html
25-12-2021||Delhi||Pollution in Delhi stays ‘severe’ for fourth day||As pollution levels in Delhi remained in the ‘severe’ zone for the fourth straight day, the Commission for Air Quality Management (CAQM) on Friday asked citizens of the city and experts to pitch in with measures for a permanent solution to Delhi and the National Capital Region’s (NCR) air crisis.Delhi recorded a 24-hour average air quality index (AQI) of 415 (severe) at 4pm on Friday, as against 423 on Thursday. Pollution levels plunged into the “severe” category for the first time since December 2 on Tuesday, and have remained in that zone since then, showed data from the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB).The Commission put out newspaper advertisements on Friday, saying that the Supreme Court in a December 16 order directed the body to invite suggestions from the public and field experts, as part of its efforts to permanently solve the region’s annual winter air hazard recurrence.“We plan to use the suggestions we receive for our long-term planning. We will consider these on their merit towards devising a long-term strategy for Delhi-NCR,” said a CAQM senior official.In November, Delhi recorded 11 “severe” air days according to data from CPCB, the highest since detailed records have been maintained by the pollution watchdog.An AQI between zero and 50 is considered good, 51 and 100 satisfactory, 101 and 200 moderate, 201 and 300 poor, 301 and 400 very poor, and 401 and 500 severe.Meanwhile, the weather office attributed the city’s ongoing pollution spike primarily to meteorological factors, including slow winds.“There was hardly any wind yesterday [on Thursday]. The mixing height [height of vertical mixing of air and suspended particles above the ground] is very shallow. This happens when the temperatures are very low and there is no wind. We expect air pollution levels to improve marginally tomorrow [Saturday] and significantly on December 26 and 27 because rain is expected,” said VK Soni, head of the India Meteorological Department’s (IMD) environment and research centre.The air quality is likely to improve to the “very poor” category on Christmas day and December 26 according to the Union ministry of earth sciences’ air quality early warning system. Pollution levels are likely to improve significantly from December 27, when the AQI is expected to be in the “poor” or “moderate” category.The city meanwhile recorded a minimum temperature of 6.9 degrees Celsius at Safdarjung on Friday, a notch below normal. Safdarjung, Delhi’s base station, logged a maximum temperature of 22.9°C, a degree above normal.The weather office has forecast marginally higher minimum temperatures for the city in the coming days, primarily due to the advent of a western disturbance, which is likely to give Delhi some light rain the day after Christmas, as well as Monday and Tuesday. (PLEASE CHECK THIS)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/pollution-in-delhi-stays-severe-for-fourth-day-101640371642718.html
25-12-2021||Lucknow||UP govt to start distribution of free tablets, smartphones today||Chief minister Yogi Adityanath will start distribution of one crore free smartphones and tablets on the birth anniversary of former Prime Minister Atal Bihari Vajpayee (December 25), said a press release issued by the chief minister’s PR team. On Saturday, one lakh smartphones and tablets will be given to final year students at Bharat Ratna Atal Bihari Vajpayee Ekana Stadium in Lucknow.As per the announcement made by CM Yogi Adityanath earlier, free smartphones and tablets will be given to one crore youths in order to make them technically advanced. In the first phase on December 25, he will distribute 60,000 smartphones and 40,000 tablets to the youth. On the occasion, Yogi will also launch “Digi Shakti Portal” and “Digi Shakti Adhyayan App”. “Digi Shakti Adhyayan App” is installed in all smartphones and tablets.Students in large numbers, including girls from every district of the state, will participate in the programme. Through these smartphones and tablets, they will not only get content for studies but information related to employment will also be given.Through the “Digi Shakti Adhyayan App”, the concerned university or department will provide study material to students. Along with this, information about employment-related schemes and other such youth welfare schemes will also be given by the government through boot logo and wall paper.Kumar Vineet, special secretary, IT and electronics department, said, “The government has made elaborate plans to empower the youth of Uttar Pradesh. Through smartphones and tablets, the youth will be provided with excellent content for studies, competitive examinations and employment with which they will be able to become self-reliant and self-reliant.”
25-12-2021||Lucknow||Covid 3rd wave fear: Night curfew in UP to be back from today||Lucknow: In view of the rising corona cases, Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Friday announced the reintroduction of night curfew from Saturday night (December 25). The curfew would be in force from 11 PM to 5 AM every day, said a state government statement, quoting the chief minister at the Covid-19 review meeting. The order is set to restrict late night public celebrations and movement on Christmas and New Year. The night curfew is being imposed again after a break of nearly two months. It was lifted on October 20 with instructions to strictly follow Covid-19 protocols of wearing mask and maintaining social distancing at public places. “In several states of the country, rise in Covid cases is being observed and under the circumstances, it’s important to take some steps. Introduce night curfew from December 25, from 11 PM to 5 AM“, Yogi said at the meeting. Yogi also asked for the reintroduction of restrictions on guests at weddings and to limit public gatherings to 200, with adherence to Covid safety protocols. The chief minister has also asked to publicise the “no mask, no shopping” message and make traders and shopkeepers aware of it. He said: “The shopkeepers should not sell anything to customers who do not wear face mask. Police should enhance patrolling. The public address system should be made more effective to publicise safety norms and protocols and mask-wearing must be made mandatory for movement on roads and in markets “. Yogi instructed officials concerned to put a system in place for not allowing anyone to enter UP from other states or countries without testing and tracing. He asked for stepping up vigil at bus and railway stations and airports. Yogi also said that the state had already put in place all arrangements in apprehension of the possible third wave of the pandemic and asked officials concerned to review the arrangements. The statement said that the chief minister also asked for reactivation of nigrani samitis (surveillance committees) in rural and urban areas to track any suspected case. Yogi said that on Friday, the number of active Covid cases across the state was 266 and 49 fresh cases were detected in the past 24 hours.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/covid-3rd-wave-fear-night-curfew-in-up-to-be-back-from-today-101640371581542.html
25-12-2021||Delhi||Omicron in sight, Delhi ups guard: ₹1.54 cr fines for Covid violations in 2 days||The Delhi government has imposed ₹1.54 crore as fines in 7,778 cases over two days for violating Covid appropriate behaviour -- like wearing masks, maintaining social distancing and spitting in public -- in crowded areas in the Capital.Officials said the total amount of fines imposed on Wednesday and Thursday is one of the highest in recent weeks, adding that the crackdown is part of the plan to curb the spread of the Omicron variant of coronavirus in the Capital.In comparison, the Delhi government imposed fines totalling ₹21 crore in November.The most fines were recorded in North and East districts where officials imposed fines of around ₹29 lakh and ₹25 lakh, respectively. Central and East districts recorded the least amount of recorded violations, seeing around ₹5 lakh in fines each.The South district administration has also sealed a restaurant in Mehrauli for allowing a gathering in violation of the DDMA guidelines mandating a 50% seating cap.Officials said district authorities have formed multiple flying squads -- consisting of civil defence volunteers and one officer from the revenue department -- to carry out raids in crowded areas like restaurants, bars, markets, interstate bus terminals and malls, especially at night, to ensure adherence to DDMA guidelines on gatherings ahead of Christmas and New Year.“They are on patrol in all crowd pulling areas like markets and the like. We have also deployed civil defence volunteers in the markets... The flying squads visit different bars and restaurants as well to ensure DDMA order is complied with,” said a senior official official.Officials said the flying squads also gather intelligence from market sources to plan raids.Reports of overcrowding in markets, like the one witnessed in Sarojini Market on Thursday, has already drawn the attention of top authorities.Lieutenant governor Anil Baijal also directed Delhi Police commissioner and divisional commissioner (revenue) on Friday to strictly ensure compliance with Covid appropriate behaviour in the Capital, in line with the latest DDMA guidelines.“Media reports and inputs from the ground point out that markets are overcrowded and there are violations of Covid-appropriate behaviour at all markets, bars and restaurants and other public places, even as the number of positive cases were maintaining a rising trend and positivity rate had risen to 0.29%,” LG office said in a statement.A senior government official said that all police officers and field functionaries have been directed to immediately launch a crackdown to ensure strict enforcement of curbs announced by DDMA.Dr Jugal Kishore, head of the department of community medicine at Safdarjung hospital, said in light of the rising cases of Covid in Delhi, people, especially those with co-morbid condition or are immunosuppressed or unimmunised, should avoid public places. “That said, this variant is not severe and may not have serious consequences. So panic and fear should be strictly avoided. For mild respiratory symptoms, there is no need of testing or any antiviral drugs. Healthy food and hygiene is required for all,” he said.Chamber of Trade & Industry chairman Brijesh Goyal said that markets are implementing ‘No Mask No Entry’ directive. “Markets do not have legal authority to enforce the DDMA order, shopkeepers can only follow the Covid guidelines in their shops. The district administration should cooperate with the traders,” he said.Experts have said that the Omicron variant is highly transmissible, expressing fear that overcrowding will aid in its easy spread.The city’s Covid graph has surged upwards over the past week, amid global concerns over the highly transmissible Omicron variant of the Sars-Cov-2 virus.Delhi added 180 fresh Covid-19 cases on Friday, higher than the 118 reported the previous day, showed the state’s daily health bulletin. The new infections came at a test positivity rate of 0.29%, marginally higher than 0.19% on Thursday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/omicron-in-sight-delhi-ups-guard-1-54-cr-fines-for-covid-violations-in-2-days-101640371341347.html
25-12-2021||Lucknow||Lease deed finally signed, Hindu hostel now belongs to Allahabad University||The lease deed for formal transfer of Hindu hostel and its adjoining grounds to Allahabad University (AU) at a nominal lease rent of ₹1 per annum for the next 29 years and 11 months has now been signed.The ensuing legal formalities were completed on December 21, said AU’s public relations officer prof Jaya Kapoor on the eve of the birth anniversary of Mahamana Madan Mohan Malviya who had got the hostel constructed in 1901. It is in his honour that Hindu Hostel is formally known as “Madan Mohan Malviya University Hostel”.The Allahabad University had initiated efforts to formally take over the Trust-owned Hindu Hostel after the executive council, the apex decision making body of the central varsity, in a meeting convened on November 23, 2021 unanimously approved the proposal in this regard. The decision of taking over the hostel having 184 double-seater rooms (with capacity of 368 students) had been first mooted and proposed by the Madan Mohan Malaviya Hindu Boarding Society (a Trust) more than 25 years back. Thereafter the society has been regularly sending communication in the matter. With no action initiated on part of the university, there was no development in this regard for years.When Prof Sangita Srivastava took over as the vice chancellor on November 30, 2020, a proposal to the effect was sent once again. She followed it up paving way for its formal takeover of it on lease by AU. “The hostel building will need some restoration work apart from clearing of the pending electricity bill of around ₹2.5 crore before it can be opened for allotment to students. There are also several proposals under consideration for utilising the grounds available for research and teaching projects,” prof Kapoor said.“The final decisions in this regard will be taken in the near future as the university is preparing for the implementation of new National Education Policy (NEP)-2020 in the 2023-24 session,” she added. The Hindu hostel was built by visionary nationalist leader and educationist Mahamana Madan Mohan Malviya in 1901 at a cost of ₹2.5 lakh collected entirely as donations to help students coming from far corners of the country find easy accommodation. At the time its name was MacDonnell Hindu Boarding House. In 1951, its name was changed to Madam Mohan Malaviya University College. Till 1982-83, AU teachers used to frequently visit the hostel to organise seminars and conduct tutorial classes. However, in recent years it fell to neglect with most toilets unusable and the building in poor state due to lack of proper maintenance. The importance of this transfer can be gauged from the fact that cost of just 10.10-acre land of the hostel located in heart of the city is estimated to be in crores.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/lease-deed-finally-signed-hindu-hostel-now-belongs-to-allahabad-university-101640371101792.html
25-12-2021||Delhi||In view of Omicron, Delhi govt to add 1,500 Covid beds in makeshift hospitals||In view of the highly transmissible Omicron variant of the coronavirus, the Delhi government has taken steps to add over 1,500 more Covid beds at makeshift hospitals in two sports complexes, a banquet hall and a public school.Two makeshift hospitals have already come up in Yamuna Sports Complex and Commonwealth Games (CWG) Sports Complex, and officials said they will convert the Shehnai banquet hall in Daryaganj and a government school in Rouse Avenue if the need arises.Officials said the government has also engaged ‘Doctors for You’, an NGO, to get the makeshift hospitals in four facilities up and running.Dr Rajat Jain, president of ‘Doctors for You’, said 65 beds have been set up at CWG sports complex and 50 beds are ready to admit patients at Yamuna Sports Complex. “CWG village has the capacity for 500 beds and the Yamuna sports complex can accommodate 800 beds. Currently, no patient is admitted at these facilities, but we have kept doctors and healthcare staff on standby so that the facilities are ready to respond to any situation,” said Jain.Officials said Shehnai banquet hall will have a capacity of 125 beds and 120 more beds will be set up at the Rouse Avenue school.Additionally, the Yamuna Sports complex facility is attached to four oxygen production plants installed in its premises that can provide non-stop oxygen through the day to 250 beds. Similarly, three oxygen production plants installed at the CWG facility can provide 200 beds with oxygen support for 24 hours.Dr Jain said that 1,000 oxygen cylinders and 250 oxygen concentrators are also in place as a backup measure for the four facilities.Dr Suneela Garg, director-professor of community medicine at Maulana Azad Medical College, said the government’s move to enhance infrastructure in advance is a right step but added that it should also focus on home isolation. “Since the symptoms are mild in Omicron cases, people can recover in home isolation by following necessary health protocols,” said Garg.A health department official, who did not want to be named, said, “Covid care centres played a major role in helping patients with mild symptoms and those who were asymptomatic recover, especially those who did not have adequate facilities for home isolation. A private agency has been engaged for running the four facilities,” the official said.While Delhi currently has 21,000 hospital beds earmarked to treat Covid-19 patients, this number can be scaled up to 37,000 in days, if required, said state government officials, adding that 100 oxygen beds can be set up in every ward within two weeks if the situation demands. Delhi has 272 municipal wards.The state’s larger plans involve setting up over 65,000 Covid-19 beds in the coming weeks.The city’s Covid graph has ticked upwards over the past week, amid global concerns over the highly transmissible Omicron variant of the Sars-Cov-2 virus. So far Delhi has detected 64 cases of the variant, according to the Union health ministry. Delhi added 180 fresh Covid-19 cases on Friday, higher than the 118 reportedthe previous day, showed the state’s daily health bulletin. The new infections came at a test positivity rate of 0.29%, marginally higher than 0.19% on Thursday.The city has over the past seven days added an average of 100 infections each day, the first time this statistic has touched triple digits since June 28. Compared to this, Delhi added just 31 cases in the seven days ending December 1.The city endured a punishing fourth wave of Covid-19 infections between April and May that left health infrastructure overrun, overwhelmed medical workers, and led to crematoriums running out of space. Over 760,000 people were infected in that period, while over 13,000 died of the infection between April and May alone. Cases in the city begin to peter out towards the middle of May on the back of a lockdown, which the state government imposed from April 19 onwards.The state government is also creating a two-month buffer of 32 types of medicines used to treat Covid-19 patients. The government has also revamped the city’s oxygen infrastructure and is working to amp up staff power.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/in-view-of-omicron-delhi-govt-to-add-1-500-covid-beds-in-makeshift-hospitals-101640370981442.html
25-12-2021||Delhi||Exhibition at Kashmere Gate to mark Delhi Metro operations anniversary||New Delhi: The Delhi Metro on Friday entered its 20th year of operations, marking the occasion with the field trials of the first-ever indigenously developed signalling technology, and launching an exhibition on “Tracing Delhi Metro’s Journey” at Kashmere Gate Metro station.Former Prime Minister Atal Bihari Vajpayee had inaugurated the first ever Metro corridor -- spanning 8.2 kilometre from Shahdara to Tis Hazari -- in the national capital on December 24 in 2002.Union housing and urban affairs secretary Durga Shanker Mishra inaugurated the exhibition on Friday. “The station has been redeveloped into a full-fledged exhibition with priceless photographs and anecdotes which shall take the visitors on a ride down the memory lane of that historic day which ignited a new revolution in India’s mass transit history. This shall be a permanent exhibition and the passengers using Delhi Metro network’s largest interchange facility shall be able to visit this exhibition without any additional cost,” said Anuj Dayal, executive director, corporate communications, DMRC.Officials said the new signalling system -- Indigenous–Automatic Train Supervision technology (i-ATS technology) -- is one of the many significant achievements of the Delhi Metro Rail Corporation (DMRC) and was jointly developed by the DMRC and Bharat Electronics Limited (BEL)Explaining the new technology, Dayal said, “The development of the i-ATS system is a major step towards the development of an indigenously built CBTC (Communication-based Train Control) based signalling technology for Metro railway... The i-ATS is a computer-based system, which manages train operations.”He said that the new system is indispensable for high density operations, such as the Metro, where services are scheduled every few minutes. “i-ATS is an indigenously developed technology, which will now significantly reduce the dependence of Indian Metros on foreign vendors dealing with such technologies…India will become one of the few countries in the world to have its own ATS product which can be implemented in other Metros as well as railway systems,” Dayal said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/exhibition-at-kashmere-gate-to-mark-delhi-metro-operations-anniversary-101640370621286.html
25-12-2021||Lucknow||Farmer killed, another injured after tiger attack in Unnao village||KANPUR A tiger killed a farmer and left another critically injured in Unnao’s Rampur Gadhoha village on Thursday evening after it strayed into the forests here from either Pilibhit or Lakhimpur Kheri, said officials. The two villagers, Ram Lakhan Pasi and Kamlesh Pasi, were attacked in their fields about 100 metres apart. Lakhan had taken his herd of goats to the field for grazing while Kamlesh was working in the field. After being attacked by the big cat, Kamlesh was being rushed to the trauma centre in Lucknow, but died on the way while Pasi was admitted to the district hospital in Unnao. “I was sitting when I heard a growl and something like a tiger leapt at me,” he said. Hearing his screams, a few villagers reached the spot but the tiger left Pasi and disappeared into the mustard field. They maintained that they saw the tiger.Chief conservator of forests (Lucknow division) RK Singh confirmed that the pugmarks were that of a tiger, which possibly entered Unnao from either Pilibhit or Lakhimpur Kheri. Earlier, it was presumed that a leopard might have attacked the two villagers. Meanwhile, a team from Lucknow arrived with tranquilizer guns and the forest deployed drones to locate the tiger. At some places, fire crackers were burst to scare the feline, which was believed to be in the area, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/farmer-killed-another-injured-after-tiger-attack-in-unnao-village-101640369781262.html
25-12-2021||Mumbai||BMC suspends 3 officials over conservancy worker’s death by suicide||Mumbai: The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) on Friday morning suspended three civic officials from the solid waste management department, after a conservancy worker allegedly died by suicide on Thursday night, over pending salary for the past 2.4 years. The civic body has set up an inquiry into the matter, suspending three of its employees who were held responsible for salary delays, a senior civic official said on Friday. “These three officials were responsible for the clearing of salaries, and have been suspended for neglecting their duties, pending an inquiry. The BMC’s inquiry department will now carry out an independent investigation into the incident, following which a final decision will be taken,” the officer said.The three civic officials who have been suspended are Anita Naik who is an administrative officer, Sameera Manjrekar who is the head clerk, and Pankaj Khillare clerk from the SWM department in the P/South ward.BMC has announced a compensation of ₹100,000 to the kin of the conservancy worker.Corporators from the Bharatiya Janata Party on Friday demanded that one family member of this conservancy worker should be given a job by the civic body. Vinod Mishra, BJP corporator said, “We have demanded a compensation of ₹5,000,000 to the family of the conservancy worker. The standing committee on Friday approved that the brother of the deceased conservancy worker will be given a job. The solid waste management department has also committed that an enquiry of five civic officials associated with the case will be conducted.”Mishra said the conservancy worker was given an appointment letter by the civic body in 2020. His father was also a conservancy worker with the BMC, and after the father’s death, the deceased was given a job on compensatory grounds. Due to technicalities, the deceased’s file moved from one department to another, including the head office, the chief engineer of the SWM department, and the ward.“He kept following up on his file and on why he was not being paid. On December 20, 2021, he reached out to an official from the P/South ward. Owing to personal commitments, the official was not available, and also shouted at the conservancy worker for disturbance. He lost hope, and attempted to take his life,” Mishra said.The uncle of the deceased, who is also a labourer working with BMC in the P/South ward said, “My brother died on duty two years ago. When Mumbai was waterlogged, he died while doing his work on field. After this incident. BMC gave a job to his son, my nephew. BMC did not clear pending dues for my brother. Meanwhile, my nephew worked for two years without receiving his pay. He was bogged down mentally. He met many officers, and they kept shuffling him from one department to another, from the headquarters to the ward office. He eventually gave up.” The deceased is survived by a brother. The uncle further said, “Neither of their parents is alive. The two brothers lived in a rented room. It come to a point where room rent of 7-8 months was over due, and the landlords constantly asked them to pay or move out. My nephew must have thought there is no way out for him.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/bmc-suspends-3-officials-over-conservancy-worker-s-death-by-suicide-101640362220800.html
25-12-2021||Lucknow||CBIC unearths ₹150 cr cash in raids on Kanpur-based bizman||KANPUR Tax raids on the premises linked to Piyush Jain, a Kanpur-based perfume businessman, yielded more than ₹150 crore in cash, Vivek Johri, chairman, Central Board of Indirect Taxes and Customs (CBIC), said in a statement on Friday.. This was the biggest cash recovery in the history of CBIC and no arrest was made so far in the case, he told media. Officials of the Directorate General of GST Intelligence (DGGI) at Jain’s house in Anandpuri said 57 big tin boxes were purchased to keep the cash and a container truck was hired for its transportation amid tight security. The number of currency counting machines was also doubled to eight — two were brought in from the State Bank of India’s Kalyanpur branch in the noon. “The counting of notes was continuing for the second day,” the officials said indicating that the cash was in excess of ₹150 crore. Videos and photographs coming from inside the house showed cash stuffed in two wardrobes of Jain’s house. The bundles of currency were wrapped in paper, plastic covers and were secured with Khaki coloured tape. Another picture showed income tax officials surrounded by more piles of cash, and three currency counting machines in the room. The raids on multiple premises in Uttar Pradesh, Gujarat and Mumbai began on Thursday at a factory owned by Ms Trimurti Fragrances, which manufactures Shikhar brand of paan masala in Kanpur. The raids extended to offices and warehouses owned by Ganpati Road Carriers, also in Kanpur, following which the action shifted to Piyush Jain, a supplier of perfume compound to Shikhar. “Based on intelligence inputs, the residential premises of partners of Ms Odochem Industries supplying perfumery compounds was also searched,” said a GST department’s statement. “During the search proceedings at the residential premises, huge amounts of cash, wrapped in paper, plastic have been found. The process to count the cash has been initiated with the help of State Bank of India (Kanpur) officials, which may continue till December 24 evening,” the statement said. “The total amount is expected to be in excess of ₹150 crore,” it further said. GST officials said the money was linked to the dispatch of goods through fake invoices and without generating e-way bills by the transporter who generated multiple invoices in the name of non-existent firms. All the invoices were below ₹50,000 for one truck-load to avoid generation of bills. At least 200 fake invoices used for transportation of goods without payment of GST had been recovered from the warehouse of the transporter, said the DGGI. The DDGI team from Ahmedabad zone took Jain’s two sons, Pratyush Jain and Molu Jain, to their ancestral house in Chipatta locality in Kannauj later in the day. The house was sealed on Thursday as Jain refused to be present when asked to come for the search, said officials.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/cbic-unearths-rs-150-cr-cash-in-raids-on-kanpur-based-bizman-101640361200757.html
