26-12-2021||Noida||Greater Noida: Kenyan woman allegedly dies by suicide in Sector Chi 5, probe on||Two people were questioned on Sunday after a 25-year-old Kenyan woman died after allegedly jumping off the 14th floor of a high-rise in Greater Noida’s Sector Chi 5 in the morning, said officials.Anil Kumar, station house officer (SHO), Sector Beta 2 police station, said that the residents informed the police about the incident at 4am on Sunday. “Police took the victim to a nearby private hospital, where the doctors declared her dead,” Kumar said, adding that the woman came from Kenya to Greater Noida four days ago, and had been staying at her male friend’s flat in the housing complex in Sector Chi 5. “It was revealed during investigation that the victim, her male friend and a female friend -- both Nigerian citizens, who live in India for work -- returned home after partying on Christmas (December 25) night. After some time, the victim and her male friend got into a fight over some personal issues (yet to be known) late Saturday night. Later, the victim jumped from the balcony of the apartment on the 14th floor early Sunday,” Kumar added. Police have questioned the two people -- the victim’s friends present at the Christmas party -- in connection with the incident, and an investigation is underway. “Her body was sent for post mortem, and the report is awaited. We have not received any complaint from the victim’s kin in the case,” Kumar said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/greater-noida-kenyan-woman-allegedly-dies-by-suicide-in-sector-chi-5-probe-on-101640543200298.html
26-12-2021||Noida||Over 15,000 birds flock to Okhla bird sanctuary, more to arrive if mercury dips||The drop in the temperatures over the past week has created a conducive environment for the arrival of more birds at the Okhla bird sanctuary with officials stating that about 15,000 birds, even of the migratory species, have been spotted in the area. Officials said the count of birds is increasing every day and it is expected that about 20,000 birds will be flocking to the water body in the next 10 days. Some of the visitors so far include herons, cormorants, terns, kingfishers, coots, gulls, painted stork, common porchard, Oriental darter, stork, greater flamingo, spoonbill, Indian black ibis, green sandpiper, pied avocet and pied stilt among several others. Over 20 migratory species have been spotted at the bird sanctuary so far.“Winter started a bit late, so the migration of birds also got delayed. In a few more days, we are expecting more birds of different species to arrive here. As the temperature drops further, the water body will become a home to a myriad of birds,” said P K Srivastava, divisional forest officer. T K Roy, an avid birder and ecologist, said, “Okhla bird sanctuary has one of the richest birding habitats but the routine maintenance has been poor. Because of the delayed winter, migration of birds has been slow but the authorities have been slower with upkeep with of the sanctuary. While the water hyacinth should have been cleared by September, it took all of October to do it. The bird population is slowly rising, but other habitats like Surajpur are in better condition. We’ll know about how many birds have come during the census.” The bird sanctuary is open to visitors from 7.30am to 5pm daily. The bird sanctuary now also has golf carts, a canteen, and a new bamboo bridge to reach the watchtower for the convenience of visitors. The footfall has increased in the past few days with about 200-odd people visiting the sanctuary daily. The footfall increases to about 500 on holidays and weekends. According to officials, the sanctuary had the maximum footfall of 800 visitors on Saturday, the day Christmas was observed. Siddharth Arya, who recently paid a visit to the sanctuary, said, “We went a bit late but still managed to see many birds. It was great fun and a good place to spend time with children. My whole family liked the place as it was quiet. The authorities should probably have more golf carts or rickshaws to ferry people from one end to the other. It would be really helpful for even those who have difficulty walking.”Meanwhile, the Asian Waterbird Census (AWC) will also be held at three locations in Gautam Budh Nagar—Surajpur wetland (December 5) and Dhanauri wetland (December 4) in Greater Noida and Okhla bird sanctuary (December 7) in Noida. AWC is the largest annual waterbird census in Asia of the Wetlands International conducted by the WI South Asia and Bombay Natural History Society (BNHS). The AWC will be carried out throughout Asia between January 1 and 16. AWC in NCR-Delhi is being carried out at seven major wetlands, including the three in Gautam Budh Nagar. “AWC is part of the global International Waterbird Census (IWC). AWC is carried out simultaneously across Asia and Australasia by a national network of volunteers in coordination with the AWC state coordinators to record the status of the wetland’s habitat, water bird species diversity and population estimates based on the international protocol and methodology,” said Roy, who is also the AWC Delhi state coordinator, Wetlands International. In India, AWC is carried out at a few hundred listed important wetlands. AWC data helps to promote the designation and management of internationally important sites such as nationally and locally protected areas, Ramsar Sites, Central Asian Site Network for Siberian Cranes and other Waterbirds, World Heritage Sites, Import Bird and Biodiversity Areas (IBA).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/over-15-000-birds-flock-to-okhla-bird-sanctuary-more-to-arrive-if-mercury-dips-101640542840446.html
26-12-2021||Pune||16.4 million Covid-19 vaccine doses given in state till December 25||PUNE Over 16.4 million doses administered so far, Maharashtra’s vaccination may touch 20 million in December,Maharashtra has, till December 25, administered at least 16.4 million (1.64 crore) Covid-19 vaccine doses, which is a sharp rise compared to the past two months, according to the Central government’s CoWin dashboard. The rise in inoculations is mostly due to local administration in various districts making vaccine doses mandatory for people to be able to access various services. People have also shed a hesitancy in the light of a fresh threat emerging from Omicron variant. With a few days remaining for December to end, state may reach the milestone of administering 20 million doses in a month, considering the daily average of 600,000 to 800,000 shots being administered. Earlier in September, at least 20.2 million shots were administered in the state. Of the administered total vaccine doses in December, 5,154,120 are first doses and 11,268,352 are second doses. Till Saturday, a total of 130,937,956 doses have been administered in the state since the commencement of the Covid immunisation programme. Pune district has also seen an uptick in the doses administered in December. In December, so far, almost 1,614,421 total doses were administered in Pune district. The number of second doses have exceeded the number of first doses in the district. Speaking to reporters in Jalna on Saturday, Maharashtra health minister Rajesh Tope said that around 10 million people in the state who are eligible for the vaccination have still not taken even the first dose. He also pointed out that the daily speed of vaccination has slowed down in the state with 500,000-600,000 doses being administered per day in the state. “A total of 87% of the eligible population has been given the first dose and 57-58% have been given the second dose. Now, daily 500,000-600,000 doses are being administered. Approximately, 10 million people remain to get the first dose. With this speed they can be covered in 15 days. Vaccines shots are abundantly available. The speed of 12,00,000 doses per day has been reduced to around 600,000,” said Tope. He asked people to come forward to take the vaccine. “We need a good response from people to maintain this speed. In rural parts officials have been given the lists and are meeting people to encourage them to take the vaccine,” said Tope. The Maharashtra government has launched the “Har Ghar Dastak” drive to motivate people to get vaccinated. In order to remove the hesitancy to take the second dose and inspire people to get the first dose, local administrations have been applying various methods including personally contacting unvaccinated people and imposing restrictions on those who are not inoculated. On December 23, the state crossed the milestone of administering 130 million vaccine doses. The 100 million mark was achieved on November 9, and the 120 million mark was achieved on December 7.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/164-million-covid-19-vaccine-doses-given-in-state-till-december-25-101640542662991.html
26-12-2021||Pune||Pune district reports 268 fresh Covid cases, 6 deaths on Sunday||PUNE As per the state health department, Pune district reported 268 fresh Covid-19 positive cases and six virus-related death deaths on Sunday. One death was reported from Pune rural and five deaths were reported from Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) in the last 24 hours.As per authorities, PMC has so far reported 525,342 Covid-19 cases and 9,246 deaths till Sunday. While Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC) has reported 270,946 cases so far and a total of 3,520 deaths due to Covid-19. Pune rural has reported 369,409 total cases so far and 7,024 deaths.In the Pune district, there are a total of 1,165,697 Covid-19 cases. Out of this, 1,143,579 patients have recovered. There has been a total of 20,140 deaths and at present, there are 1,978 active cases.As per the state health department, 918 patients were discharged on Sunday in Maharashtra taking the total to 6,502,957 in the State. The recovery rate in the state is 97.67%.Across Maharashtra, 1648 new cases of Covid were diagnosed and 17 Covid-19 deaths were reported on Sunday. The case fatality rate in the state is 2.12%.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pune-district-reports-268-fresh-covid-cases-6-deaths-on-sunday-101640542304714.html
26-12-2021||Noida||16 fresh Covid cases in Ghaziabad, highest single-day spike in December||A 12-year-old girl and an 11-year-old boy were among the 16 fresh Covid-19 cases reported in the district on Sunday, the highest single day spike so far in the month of December, forcing officials of the district health department to ramp up testing and draw up containment plans to control the spread of the infection. Of the 16 cases reported on Sunday, five are members of the same family living in a high-rise in Crossings Republik; two of them have a history of arriving in Ghaziabad from Goa on December 18. Another member of the same family has a history of returning from the UK on December 17. The other cases include two doctors who were putting up at a hostel of a dental college in Modinagar; three members of a family in Indirapuram while one case each was reported from Kavi Nagar, Nehru Nagar, Vaishali, Vasundhara, Shalimar Garden and Raj Nagar. According to official data, 11 of the 16 new cases are contacts of previously infected patients and the samples of all new patients have been sent for genome-sequencing. Health officials said they will start empanelling more hospitals for Covid treatment. “This time, we plan to rope in about 75 hospitals for treatment of Covid patients in case there is a surge in cases. There is a rising trend in Covid cases; we are focussing on early detection, contact tracing and isolation of patients to curb the spread of the infection,” said Dr Bhavtosh Shankhdhar, chief medical officer (CMO) of Ghaziabad district. The last time the district received more than 16 fresh Covid cases in a day was on June 17, when it recorded 18 fresh cases. “Most of the positive cases coming to fore have a travel history and a majority of them have travelled to different states across the country. Apart from focussing on these cases, we are also seeking information of foreign travellers from residents and residents’ welfare associations and getting them tested at the earliest,” said the CMO. With 16 new cases, the number of total infections o far in the month of December has gone up to 83, of which 55 are active cases. Fifty of the 55 active cases are in home isolation. The overall tally of infections since the beginning of the pandemic has reached 55,763. Health experts said there is a rising trend in cases and it may go up further in coming weeks. “It is vital that all Covid protocols be followed and guidelines be strictly enforced if we wish to stop the spread of infection. The best part is that the vaccination coverage has increased and it should further be ramped up to get maximum protection against Covid,” said Dr Ashish Aggarwal, former president of Indian Medical Association (Ghaziabad). According to official figures, the sample positivity rate, which was 0.01% on November 30, has now increased to 0.6% till December 26. The overall sample positivity rate, since the start of the pandemic, stands at 2.69%. The sample positivity rate refers to the number of samples testing returning positive for Covid infection per 100 samples tested. Sometimes, patients would give more than one test for confirmation. Hence, the total positive samples could be higher than total positive cases. The World Health Organization (WHO) recommends a test positivity rate below 5% for at least two weeks in a region for an outbreak to be considered under control.“Our focus is on comprehensive vaccination but senior citizens (aged over 60) are not showing much inclination in coming out and getting vaccinated. So we have started near-to-home vaccination so that coverage can be increased. The overall coverage is over 95% and we hope that we can complete administering the first dose of the Covid vaccine to our targeted population within the next week,” said Dr GP Mathuria, nodal officer for Covid vaccination.After the district administration missed several deadlines of administering the first dose to its eligible beneficiaries, the state government set a new deadline of December 31 to finish the process. 
26-12-2021||Pune||Pune police books 8 bank officials in cheating case||PUNE Pune city police have registered a cheating case against eight-persons including two high-rank officials of a bank following an order from a judicial magistrate court under section 156 (3) of the criminal procedure core The incident took place between 2018 and 2020. Smita Sameer Patil, a resident of Kothrud lodged a complaint with the Kothrud police station. Accordingly, the FIR has been registered against eight persons. According to police, the complainant’s company had a term loan account with the bank. The bank officials allegedly made a bogus loan account and then sent a proposal to the company on August 13, 2018 for a one-time settlement of ₹13 crore. The bank allegedly misused cheques given as security for the term loan account by paying ₹ 2.5 crore for the fake loan account. “The bank declared the company’s account as a non-performing asset (NPA) alleging that we are not paying instalments regularly. This is nothing but a plot to grab our money”, the FIR states. Senior police inspector Mahendra Jagtap is further investigating the case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pune-police-books-8-bank-officials-in-cheating-case-101640542060110.html
26-12-2021||Pune||26-year-old rider collides into stationary truck, dies||PUNE A 26-year-old man died in a collision with a stationary truck on Saturday at Katraj bypass road.The deceased was identified as Akshay Deepak Valsangkar, 26, a resident of Lakshminagar in Parvati, Pune, according to the police. Valsangkar was booked for causing his own death by speeding and ramming into the rear end of the truck.The incident happened around 1:50am when the man was speeding on a motorbike from Katraj towards Navale bridge, according to the police.“He was not wearing a helmet. We have contacted the family but they are grieving and could not record a statement. He lived with his family in Parvati area,” said assistant sub-inspector AS Deshmukh of Bharti Vidyapeeth police station who is investigating the case.A case under Sections 279, 304(a) of Indian Penal Code along with Sections 184 and 119/177 of Motor Vehicle Act was registered at Bharti Vidyapeeth police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/26yearold-rider-collides-into-stationary-truck-dies-101640541883953.html
26-12-2021||Noida||Two owners of restaurant in Noida mall booked for violating night curfew rules||Police have booked two people who run a restaurant in Gardens Galleria Mall in Noida for allegedly violating the night curfew rules on Christmas (December 25), officials said on Sunday.The suspects were identified as restaurant owner Virendra Singhal and his son Vikas Singhal (age not revealed), who runs ‘Ministry of Sound’ in Noida Sector 38A, said police.In the complaint, sub-inspector Lokesh Gautam said that he and two police constables saw that the restaurant was kept open at 11:35pm on Saturday, which was in violation of the night curfew imposed in the wake of an increase in the number of Covid cases in the district. According to the curfew rules, there are restrictions on the movement of people from 11pm to 5am.“On informing, the station house officer (SHO) of Sector 39, Rajeev Kumar, reached the restaurant and found a lot of people partying there. We asked the owners to close the restaurant, but they did not do so. Then, we had to take action against them,” Gautam said in the complaint.A case has been registered against the two people under Indian Penal Code (IPC) sections 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant) and 269 (negligent act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life), and Section 51 of the Disaster Management Act 2005 at the Sector 39 police station on Sunday, said the station house officer (SHO), Rajeev Kumar.“These IPC sections do not mandate an immediate arrest... Police are investigating the matter,” he added.The Uttar Pradesh government imposed the night curfew across the state from December 25, between 11pm and 5am amid an increase in the number of coronavirus cases in India. The Gautam Budh Nagar police, meanwhile, extended the enforcement of Code of Criminal Procedure (CrPC) Section 144, prohibiting a gathering of four or more people in a public space, till January 31 next year.Syed Shamim Anwar, associate director (marketing) of Entertainment City -- which runs the Gardens Galleria Mall -- said that the restaurant has got a separate ownership.The restaurant owner, Singhal, said that the restaurant management had informed the people at 10pm on Saturday that they had to vacate the place before 11pm. “We also stopped entries at 10:20pm, and half of the visitors had left the restaurant by 10:30pm. There were around 15-20 people in the restaurant around 11pm, when the police team arrived there and vacated the place. The restaurant was not catering to people at 11:35pm, as alleged in the FIR, and we have proof,” Singhal asserted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/two-owners-of-restaurant-in-noida-mall-booked-for-violating-night-curfew-rules-101640541821199.html
26-12-2021||Lucknow||Mayawati had launched Ayodhya’s development in her tenure: Mishra||Lucknow; Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) national general secretary Satish Chandra Mishra said on Sunday that the development of Ayodhya was launched under the BSP government when BSP president Mayawati was chief minister of Uttar Pradesh. Mayawati had prepared a plan for development of UP and welfare of the people and once the BSP formed government in the state, all the projects would be launched immediately, he said. Addressing a public meeting in Milkipur area of Ayodhya district on Sunday, Mishra said the BJP government indulged in land scam in the name of development of Ayodhya. The state government had allocated large fund for development of Ayodhya in the budget but the construction of roads and lanes in the temple town had not started. The development of Chaudah Kosi Parikarma road, laying of sewer line, water supply pipeline, establishment of sewage treatment plant and beautification of the Saryu ghat was done during the BSP government, he said. The BJP was seeking vote in the name of religion whereas the BSP called upon the people to vote for development. The project for development of Vrindavan was also launched under the BSP government. The development of Valmiki Ashram at Bithoor was also done under BSP government, he said. The BJP government was highlighting Lord Ram but had neglected Sita. This it clearly showed that the saffron brigade was not interested in the empowerment of women but considered them a vote bank. Now the BJP government was distributing smartphones among the youths with an eye on their votes. Instead of smartphones and laptops, the BSP aimed to give jobs to the youths, he said. The BJP and SP governments spread terror among the people whereas the BSP government established the rule of law. Under the SP government, the state witnessed spurt in crime and communal violence. The SP was not a well-wisher of the Muslim community rather but used it as a vote bank, he said. The BJP engineered defection in the BSP in 2003 to pave way for the formation of the SP government. This showed that both the BJP and the SP were two sides of the same coin, he said. Mishra said in the 2017 assembly election, the BJP leaders misguided the people with false promises. Today the people were feeling cheated, as the prices of essential commodities had increased he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/mayawati-had-launched-ayodhya-s-development-in-her-tenure-mishra-101640541641720.html
26-12-2021||Pune||167.25 kg ganja worth ₹30 lakh seized in Pune, 12 arrested||PUNE The Pune rural police have recovered 167.25 kg ganja from two trucks drivers who were intercepted along Pune-Solpaur road stretch in Yavat police station jurisdiction on Sunday. The ganja is estimated to be worth ₹30 lakh, according to the police. A total of 12 people travelling in the two trucks were arrested in the case. Among the 12, five are women while seven are men. The people were carrying the narcotic wrapped in packets and kept it in 6 bags that were placed near the drivers’ seats.The men have been identified as Ravikumar Jageshwar Pupalla, Ravi Kotya Ajmera, Prakash N Vyakateshrao, from various districts of Andhra Pradesh along with Umesh Khandu Thorat from Pune, Yuvraj Kisan Pawar, Uttam Kalu Chavan, and Kisan Shalimar Pawar from Buldhana, while the women have been identified as Rukminibai Ruprao Pawar, Meena Yuvraj Pawar, Mamata Uttam Chavan, Lalabai Devlal Chavan, Lalita Hiralal PAwar, all residents of Buldhana, according to the police.“Police inspector Narayan Pawar of Yavat police station received information that two goods carrier trucks from Andhra Pradesh, Karnataka were going to pass from Solapur-Pune highway to bring ganja for sale to Pune. Based on the information, two teams were formed and around 1:35am, at a little distance from Patas village, near a petrol pump, two trucks were intercepted by the police,” read a statement by Pune rural police.A case under relevant sections of the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act, 1985 has bene registered at Yavat police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/16725-kg-ganja-worth-30-lakh-seized-in-pune-12-arrested-101640541640171.html
26-12-2021||Pune||Pune police recover gold, silver worth ₹1 crore from TET 2018 accused||PUNE The Pune police have recovered gold and silverware worth over ₹1 crore from one of the two accused arrested in the result manipulation case of Teacher eligibility test (TET), 2018, according to Bhagyashree Navatake, deputy commissioner of police, cyber crime and economic offence wing of Pune police. The recovery was made from former project manager of GA Software company, Ashwin Kumar, 41, who was arrested from Kalyannagar area of Bengaluru.The police have recovered around 1.48 kg of gold, 44.74 carat of diamond collectively worth ₹85,20,326 and over 27kg silverware estimated to be worth ₹16,75,479, according to the police.The total value of the recovery from Kumar is estimated to be ₹1,01,95,805, according to the police.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pune-police-recover-gold-silver-worth-1-crore-from-tet-2018-accused-101640541520233.html
26-12-2021||Lucknow||Repeal of farm laws shows PM’s large-heartedness: Sakshi Maharaj||Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) MP from UP’s Unnao Lok Sabha seat Sakshi Ji Maharaj on Sunday said “repeal of three farm laws was an endorsement of Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s large-heartedness”. “If there be any party in entire ‘Hindustan’ working in the interests of the farmers, it is BJP,” he added.Talking to reporters at Ajan village of Gola constituency in course of the party’s “Jan Vishwas Yatra” covering Gola, Mohammadi, Kasta and Sri Nagar assembly constituencies of Lakhimpur Kheri on its second day, he said, “To avoid any untoward incident, Prime Minister Narendra Modi, going against his nature, repealed the three laws and sought an apology from the nation saying he could not convince the farmers (about the laws). The PM felt the agitating farmers had got deviated.”Sakshi Ji Maharaj along with UP minister Mohsin Raza and Kheri district unit BJP president Sunil Singh led the party’s “Jan Vishwas Yatra” during which they told people about the various public welfare schemes and development works carried out by the UP and the central governments.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/repeal-of-farm-laws-shows-pm-s-large-heartedness-sakshi-maharaj-101640541400134.html
26-12-2021||Pune||Burglars trigger blast to break open ATM, flee with ₹16 lakh cash||PUNE Burglars broke open an automated teller machine (ATM) of a private bank using explosives before decamping with cash worth around ₹16 lakh on Saturday midnight in the industrial area of Chakan, police said. Prerna Katte, Assistant commissioner of police, Chakan division of Pimpri-Chinchwad police said, “The bank did not have an alarm system or a security guard in place which could have brought the explosion to light earlier. The sound was not loud as people did not realise it until the next morning when locals went to use the machine. The particles have been sent for chemical analysis to find out what kind of explosive was used.” On being alerted, bomb detection and disposal squad (BDDS) and other experts were brought to the spot. The police are in the process of extracting a CCTV footage of the incident. A technician is working on the extraction process, according to ACP Katte.The incident has been recorded at Alandi police station under various sections of the Indian Penal Code and other laws.The incident has come to light six months after ₹28 lakh was stolen after a group of men are suspected to have tied an explosive to the ATM machine causing it to blow apart upon detonation. That incident was also in Chakan area of Pimpri-Chinchwad.The Pimpri Chinchwad police had arrested two of the four suspects in that case. The police had intercepted other failed attempt by the suspects in that case in the same month.The method of theft has been found in several parts of the country few years ago - Uttar Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh, Kerala, Telangana, according to the police statement during the past case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/burglars-trigger-blast-to-break-open-atm-flee-with-16-lakh-cash-101640541340645.html
26-12-2021||Pune||Case against man for giving ‘triple talaq’ to wife on social media in Pune||PUNE A 32-year-old woman from Pune registered a case against her husband for allegedly giving her ‘triple talaq’ or divorce by sending her a message on a social media platform, said police on Sunday.According to the FIR, which was lodged on December 24, the woman stayed at her husbands residence from February 27, 2018 till December 11, 2021. During that time she was abused for her complexion by the husband who also told her that he got married against his wishes. According to the complainant, her husband, identified as, Moin Ibrahim Mulani ( 32) sent a message to her on December 11, that stated ‘ talaq ’ thrice, on a social media platform, after which she decided to lodged a complaint against him.The police have invoked Sections 498 A, 323, 504 and 506 of the Indian Penal Code against the accused along with Sections 3 and 4 of Muslim Women (Protection of Rights on Marriage) Act, 2019. Kondhwa police station incharge Sardar Patil said that a complaint under relevant sections was lodged as per the complaint. Earlier, on October 28, a 28-year-old woman filed a case with the Samartha police alleging that her husband divorced her by sending a talaq message on social media.In her complaint, she alleged that her husband identified as Sajid Magdum Shaikh and mother-in-law Zaibunissa, both residents of Lohiyanagar constantly harassed her and demanded that she bring money from her father’s house to buy a cooler, iron and a flat. On March 10, 2021, her husband sent a message pronouncing triple talaq.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/case-against-man-for-giving-triple-talaq-to-wife-on-social-media-in-pune-101640541160182.html
26-12-2021||Lucknow||US, Indian scientists’ team research hints at anticancer therapy sans chemo||A team of US and Indian scientists on the strength of their research have hinted at a novel effective treatment process of cancer without chemo and radiation therapies known for causing side effects like fatigue, nausea, hair loss, weight loss, pain, diarrhoea, gastrointestinal problem, immune suppression, besides sore mouth and throat among most cancer patients.The findings of this team of 10 scientists working in the field of cancer at the Cleveland Clinic of the United States led by professor of Cancer Biology Yong Li and an assistant professor of biochemistry from Allahabad University (AU) Munish Pandey were recently published in the prestigious international journal Oncogene of Nature Publishing Group.After successful experiments on mice, efforts are now being intensified to do the same for human trial, the scientists claim. “The study may give relief to cancer patient who undergo chemotherapy. Chemotherapy uses radiation and other drugs which have many side effects and evoke immune system response that causes severe pain and allergic reactions. Our team had earlier developed knockout mice (a lab mouse in which one or more genes have been turned off or “knocked out” using genetic engineering) for miR-21 and same was published in PNAS journal,” Pandey said.Knockout mice are used to study what happens in an organism when a particular gene is absent. MicroRNA-21 (small non-coding RNA) is one of the most abundant microRNAs in mammalian cells that regulate apoptosis (programmed cell death) and oncogenic effects.He said his team was on way to discovering an alternative to chemotherapy and drugs in the treatment of cancer which damage normal cells along with cancer cells during cancer treatment. In this successful experiment in the Cleveland Clinic of US the team, while experimenting on mice, injected its anti-sense (non-coding DNA strand of a gene) into mice to make miR-21 ineffective.After this, it was found that the tumour formed in the body of the mice gradually became smaller. Some tumours even disappeared. This experiment went on for a year in the US. However, it has not yet got approval for human trial. During research, the team also found that microRNA i.e. miR-21 significantly expressed in most cancer types. “This makes cancer cells more effective in presence of miR-21,” Pandey said. “The group is further working on other programmed cell death mechanisms, microRNAs and Chimeric Antigen T-Cell therapy (CAR-T) to tackle carcinogenicity in mice model,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/us-indian-scientists-team-research-hints-at-anticancer-therapy-sans-chemo-101640540920258.html
26-12-2021||Pune||Lt Col among 4 booked by CBI for selling answer keys in Army ordnance civilian post recruitment exams||PUNE The anti-corruption bureau of the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) has booked four persons including an Army officer of Lieutenant Colonel-rank and two jawans for allegedly accepting money for leaking and selling answer keys for recruitment exam question paper into various trades held by Army Ordnance Corps, Southern Command, Pune during the 2020-21. The officer has been booked along with a sepoy, his wife, and a havaldar-level staff member for sharing answer keys to the candidates appearing for the exam for money, that was paid allegedly through bank transfers. According to the FIR, two different amounts of ₹50,000 and ₹40,000 were transferred. Two of the four accused have been identified as havaldar Susanta Nahak and Sepoy Alok Kumar, both arrested in a similar case registered by the CBI Pune unit in November. “They were initially arrested in another case. They have been released on bail in that case. During their interrogation we found new information based on which we have registered a new case. I cannot comment on whether there will be any more arrests at this stage,” said a senior officer of the Central bureau of investigation’s (CBI) Pune unit of anti-corruption bureau on anonymity. Referring to the earlier case, a part of the CBI FIR registered on December 16 reads, “During the investigation of the said case, it has been revealed that accused havaldar Susanta Nahak and the officer are also involved in another recruitment process for the selection of various trades through examination held during 2020-21.” An Additional Superintendent-level police officer of CBI is investigating the case which has been registered under Section 120(b) (criminal conspiracy) of Indian Penal Code along with Section 7 of Prevention of Corruption Act, (2018 amendment). In November, havaldar Nahak and sepoy Kumar, and unknown others were booked for taking “undue advantage” during the 2019 recruitment procedure for various civilian group C posts. The two have since been granted bail by a special CBI court.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/lt-col-among-4-booked-by-cbi-for-selling-answer-keys-in-army-ordnance-civilian-post-recruitment-exams-101640540680139.html
26-12-2021||Lucknow||Students thank UP CM, say tablets, phones will help them a lot||After launching the campaign to distribute free tablets and smartphones to one crore students of the state, chief minister Yogi Adityanath himself gave these devices to thirty-three students. Five students also got the chance to deliver a speech on the occasion during which they expressed their gratitude to the CM and spoke how smartphones and tablets will help them. On Saturday, one lakh smartphones and tablets were given to final year students at Bharat Ratna Atal Bihari Vajpayee Ekana Stadium in Lucknow.“I am visually impaired and that posed many challenges to me. I wasn’t able to attend online classes and access study materials. Now, I can listen to audio lectures easily. I want to thank the CM on behalf of all visually impaired students who’ll be benefitted from this campaign,” said one Sagar Upmanyu in his speech. He is pursuing his MA in political science from Dr Shakuntala Misra National University, Lucknow.Another nursing student Akansha Mishra who is pursuing BSc from Bora Institute, Sitapur said smartphones would help in research, presentation and attending online classes besides battling Covid-19. “Due to financial issues, students weren’t able to fulfil their dreams. But now unhindered access to technology would aid them in connecting with the world,” she said in her speech.Prabal Awasthi Abhyudaya, a student of Kotra village of Sitapur preparing for UPSC examination under Mukhyamantri Abhyuday Yojana, said, “After Abhyuday Yojana, the gap between teachers and students due to lockdown and Covid will be bridged by these tablets and smartphones. Digital and educated India will lead to the birth of a new India.” “The inevitable need for digital empowerment of the youth has been filled at every level. The distribution of these devices will enable students like me to use them in our professional lives and workplaces even after completing studies,” said Zeba Kaiser, a BEd student of Eram Girls’ Degree College, Lucknow.“Today is a big day for us. It is beneficial for future engineers, doctors, and fashion designers among others,” said Mehul Gupta, a final year BTech student of Lucknow Institute of Technology.
26-12-2021||Mumbai||BMC plans makeover of footpaths in heritage precincts of South Mumbai||MUMBAI In a welcome move, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) is set to beautify the footpaths in a few heritage precinct areas in south Mumbai and make them pedestrian-friendly. The civic body has planned to implement the cast-in-situ method for redoing footpaths at Churchgate Pedestrian Plaza, Shyama Prasad Mukherjee Chowk, Metro Junction, Horniman Circle and Veer Nariman Street.In 2020, the BMC had developed the stretch of footpath between the Mumbai University Fort Campus and National Gallery of Modern Art (NGMA) on a pilot basis. In this project too, the civic body had implemented the cast-in-situ method of concreting instead of using the usual paver blocks and tiles. The cast-in-situ method includes the use of concrete and cement which is prepared at the construction site and poured onto the surface after which it is left for curing. Almost all the existing footpaths in Mumbai are constructed using paver blocks and tiles which eventually makes their surface uneven with time. The cost of maintaining paver blocks is higher while the design life is short.P Velrasu, additional municipal commissioner (projects), said that the usage of concrete instead of paver blocks or tiles will provide longevity to the footpath and will also reduce the maintenance cost. “We will be merging the footpath with the existing carriageway on the road. The surface of these footpaths will be smoother and pedestrian-friendly. We will be re-engineering these footpaths in a way that wheelchair users can find it easy to move,” Velrasu said.To ensure that pedestrians don’t face any inconvenience, only 100 metre of work will be carried out at a time and the cost of the entire project has been pegged at around Rs45 crore he said. The project has to be completed within 12 to 15 months which includes the monsoon season, and the BMC has already issued the work order for this. “These footpaths will be constructed in panels so that if a portion of the footpath gets damaged in future, we can replace that panel with a new one instead of digging the entire footpath,” Velrasu said.As the project is going to be undertaken in the heritage precinct, the BMC has roped in conservation architect Pankaj Joshi as a consultant for the project. Joshi said that besides re-engineering footpaths, new street furniture including concrete benches, road signages and bus shelters will also be installed on the footpaths. Joshi was also part of the pilot project that the BMC undertook last year.“The paver blocks and tiles that are used in building footpaths get detached easily from the surface which makes the surface uneven. Due to which people prefer to walk on roads instead of footpaths, which is why we will be designing the footpath surface for universal accessibility. Besides re-engineering the footpaths, we will also re-organise the tree-surrounds that will give more space to the roots to grow,” said Joshi. He mentioned that as the work will be carried out through a longer area, the width of the footpaths will vary between 1.2 to 2 metre to 9 to 11 metre.“The primary objective of this project is to use the space available to us in a smart manner. Dedicated pitches for the street vendors will be created and we will also paint the lanes highlighting parking spaces of these areas. This will minimise encroachment and encourage more people to use the footpaths,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/bmc-plans-makeover-of-footpaths-in-heritage-precincts-of-south-mumbai-101640540499423.html
26-12-2021||Pune||Four locations to roll out EV charging hubs across Pune||Pune has started working on fast-tracking electric vehicle adoption and has set sights on going ‘all electric’ in the future. Hinjewadi, Pune railway station, Lohegaon airport, Swargate and Bhekrainagar are some of the areas in Pune and Pimpri-Chinchwad that are coming up as ‘concentrated hub of electric vehicles deployment’ and ‘public charging clusters’ for electric vehicles.These locations – where charging stations exist or EVs are operating in large numbers or companies plan to deploy EV in future – have been identified by around 80 companies which participated in the City Electric Vehicle Accelerator workshop conducted recently by the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC). Based on these and other findings, a complete ‘EV charging infrastructure plan’ for the city will be prepared soon. RMI India, an independent think-tank which is helping PMC to make Pune city ‘EV Ready’, has put together immediate and long-term steps to be implemented by PMC along with Pimpri-Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC) and the state government. Several issues and potential roadblocks for creating EV charging infrastructure are also identified by the 80 plus companies which are stakeholders in the EV sector. Akshima Ghate, senior principal, RMI India said, “Hinjewadi is an emerging area for EV deployment. We have identified seven locations and are in the process of identifying more pockets in the city to accelerate the charging infrastructure. We need to have a plan for the city which no other city in the country so far has. Our next step is to get all stakeholders in the EV ecosystem and work with city’s EV Cell to put together a charging infrastructure action plan.”“While the focus is on the fast-charging facilities, we also need semi-public charging infrastructure with slow-charging facilities for EVs. This can be done in residential areas and housing societies. Incentives and subsidies for making slow chargers and property tax rebates for installing them could be one of the steps to encourage its use,” added Ghate.Tejsing Gaikwad, CEO, TAG Eutomotive and an electric vehicle OEM who participated in the governance working group during the accelerator workshop, said, “We need good charging infrastructure especially with standardised swapable batteries. The public charging stations available at present are not truly accessible for all EV users. Hence, state government and civic bodies should work closely with the industry players and possibly enter a public-private partnership model to cater to the emerging two-wheeler EV segment.”During the workshop, PMC commissioner Vikram Kumar said that the EV Cell will work as a ‘single window’ system to resolve grievances of all stakeholders in the EV ecosystem. He also mentioned a policy framework to allow property tax rebates for residential housing societies for setting up charging stations. BOXHead: The speed bumps in Pune’s electric vehicle driveStrap: These roadblocks must be resolved on priority• Land availability• Feasibility of land parcels• Transformers and electricity availability• Access• Rental business model• Sale price of land• Charging technology and standards• Data tracking||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/four-locations-to-roll-out-ev-charging-hubs-across-pune-101640540387224.html
26-12-2021||Pune||Pvt firms, cafes, shops: Charging stations for e- vehicles mushrooming in Pune city||PUNE With fuel prices sky rocketing, Puneites are turning towards electric bikes and cars. In a bid to give facilities to customers, several cafes, private firms, restaurants and shops have installed electric charging points in their premises. The Pune Regional Transport Office (RTO) has seen an increase in registrations of electric bikes.Sunny’s Cafe in Kothrud, near the MIT college, has set up a special charging point for e-bikes here. “As many college students have started using e-bikes, one of them asked us if we have a charging port. These students visit our cafe and sit here for hours, so we thought to have such charging point which will be beneficial for our customers and also we can earn something out of it,” said Sunny Waghmare owner of the cafe.Another grocery shop owner Ketan Rathi from Hadapsar said, “There is always a rush of customers at our shops, and when there is a long queue many times customers have to wait for an hour. So, we decided to have an electric charging point for customers bringing their e-bikes and cars. And after paying the nominal fees, they can easily charge their vehicles while they do shopping.”There are several restaurants specially on the highways which have started the charging stations in their premises,so that citizens can easily charge their vehicles on the go. While at housing societies, the charging stations have been set up to benefit the residents.Similarly, the Inox multiplex theatre at Bund garden is laying claim to being the first cinema in India to be equipped with charging stations for electric two-wheelers and four-wheelers. Charging stations have also been installed at Deshpande’s restaurant on the Pune - Solapur Highway near Indapur. It is a restaurant on the highway and daily hundreds of vehicles stop here for breakfast, lunch and dinner.BOXElectric two-wheelers registered at Pune RTO in last four years2018 - 5102019 - 8442020 - 1,6722021 - 1,952||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pvt-firms-cafes-shops-charging-stations-for-e-vehicles-mushrooming-in-pune-city-101640539905832.html
26-12-2021||Lucknow||Rly minister inspects Prayagraj junction, reviews redevelopment plan||Union minister for railways Ashwini Vaishnaw reviewed Prayagraj junction’s redevelopment plan, its layout and overall railway infrastructure in the district on Saturday. General manager, North Central Railway (NCR), Pramod Kumar and DRM, Prayagraj, Mohit Chandra briefed the minister about various facilities available at the junction station.During the visit, the minister also gave some suggestions for tweaking the redevelopment plans so as to ensure that the facilities at the junction could rival those available at airports. After arriving at Prayagraj junction by a special train, he went around the station premises thoroughly inspecting each amenity and also assessed the level of cleanliness there. The minister examined the arrangements which included passenger convenience, arrangements for food, drinking water, sanitation and easy movement of passengers. While talking to the media persons present there, Vaishnaw appreciated the cleanliness and passenger amenities at the station. He also called for the need for redevelopment of Prayagraj junction as it is one of the most important stations that serves the largest religious congregation Kumbh. When asked about the future look of the station, he said the development of station will be on the theme “Virasat Bhi Vikas Bhi”. The minister further said the pre-Covid facilities like mechanised laundries will be restored considering the emerging situation of Covid and its new variant Omicron. Later, he also held a review meeting with the officials at NCR, Northern Railway (NR) and North Eastern Railway (NER). In the meeting, the minister said the three priorities which should be kept in mind while performing duties are “Nation First, Always First”, “Antyodaya” and “Social Harmony”. Major infrastructure works of Prayagraj area, including yard re-modelling of Prayagraj junction, construction of railway over and under bridges among others were also discussed. He also held an in-depth discussion about the development of railways in Prayagraj area with local public representatives.During the visit, the minister also visited the Operation Control Centre (OCC) of Eastern Dedicated Freight Corridor (EDFC). Vaishnaw also attended a function at the BJP office organised to mark the birth anniversary of former PM Atal Bihari Vajpayee and a national seminar at Allahabad University’s Tilak Bhawan.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/rly-minister-inspects-prayagraj-junction-reviews-redevelopment-plan-101640539900459.html
26-12-2021||Delhi||Jewar airport: Land acquisition for second phase to begin in January||Noida: The process to acquire land for the second phase of the Noida International Airport project in Jewar will begin in January next year, district administration officials aware of the development said on Sunday, adding that the Uttar Pradesh government has already approved the social impact assessment report for the new phase on December 17. The officials said the report, prepared by the district administration and Gautam Buddha University, was sent to the state government in July. Uttar Pradesh chief secretary RK Tiwari reviewed the report on the project’s impact on farmers in the region, and approved it on December 17, they said.Prime Minister Narendra Modi laid the foundation stone for the Jewar airport on November 25. The greenfield project is billed to be the the largest in India, and will be the National Capital Region’s third, after the Indira Gandhi International Airport (IGIA) and the civilian terminal at Ghaziabad’s Hindon airport. The second phase of the Jewar airport envisages setting up the third runway, and a commercial maintenance, repair and overhaul (MRO) of aircraft centre.MRO units ensure service worthiness of an aircraft with facilities for inspection and maintenance. Two runway pavements are being developed in the first phase, which is to be completed soon, said the officials. The first phase of the project, which will be fully implemented in four separate phases, is scheduled to be done by September 29, 2024.Officials on Sunday said the land for the second phase will be acquired in Karauli Bangar, Dayanatpur, Kureb, Ranhera, Mundhera and Nagla Hukum Singh villages. “We will start the land acquisition process from January. We will organise camps at the six villages on January 7,8 and 10 to take the consent of the farmers, who are likely to be affected by the land acquisition process. The suggestions and objections of those opposing the project will be noted down for suitable remedial action,” said Balram Singh, additional district magistrate (land acquisition), Gautam Budh Nagar.The state government has already handed over 1,334 hectares in Jewar to the Yamuna International Airport Private Limited (YIAPL) -- a 100% subsidiary of Zurich Airport International AG, which has been incorporated as a special purpose vehicle (SPV) to develop Jewar airport -- last year. According to the agreement, the government has to provide 1,363 hectares to the subsidiary adjacent to the existing airport site for the third runway and further expansion.Meanwhile, the state government has rejected the demand by farmers of Karauli Bangar village to keep their area of the project. Objections have also been raised by residents of Nagla Hukum Singh, whose entire village is to be acquired.The villagers have said they will decide their next move in the future. “We will organise a meeting with the farmers, and then decide if we will file a plea in the high court or we will approach the state government for excluding our village from the project area,” said Mukesh Kumar, a farmer from Nagla Hukum Singh village. 
26-12-2021||Lucknow||Money meant for the poor coming out of walls: UP CM Yogi||Chief minister Yogi Adityanath said the BJP government freed the land grabbed by mafias and criminals and was using them for constructing houses for the poor. On the raid on the premises of a Kanpur-based perfume businessman, he said, “The money meant for the poor, which was embezzled during previous government is now coming out of the walls. The perfume launched is not giving fragrance but it is now giving stench.”The CM expressed these views while addressing a gathering in Prayagraj on Sunday. He was in Sangam city to lay the foundation of 75 houses being constructed under the Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojana on a piece of land that was freed from the illegal possession of Mafioso-turned-politician and ex-MP Atiq Ahmed in Lukarganj area of the city. On the occasion, he also inaugurated various government schemes for Prayagraj and Kaushambi districts. In Prayagraj, he inaugurated schemes worth ₹157.78 crore. This included inauguration of eight schemes worth ₹89.60 crore and stone laying of 23 projects worth ₹68.18 crore. The CM also gave benefits of different schemes to 25 beneficiaries and handed over e-tricycle to five differently-abled people.Addressing a gathering at the ground near Khusru Bagh, the CM said mafias and criminals were active during previous government and grabbed land and extorted money from businessmen. Before 2017, funds allotted for development works and schemes for the poor in Uttar Pradesh were embezzled, he added.“The BJP government has zero tolerance policy towards corruption and crime but in previous government grabbing lands of poor, extortion, kidnappings, embezzlement of money for development works was common. The government bulldozer is now active and houses are being built on lands freed from mafias,” the CM said.“The state was run by mafias and witnessed riots in previous government but now not a single riot occurred during the BJP rule. The mafias and their henchmen used to harass people in Prayagraj and even torture and abduct their children for grabbing their land,” he added.He said people had experienced the difference between Kumbh-2013 and Kumbh-2019. The Kumbh-2013 witnessed chaos, stampede and filth while Kumbh-2019 was well organised and magnificent, Yogi said.The CM said that Prayagraj will be the “justice capital” as the national law university had been proposed for the Sangam city. “BJP is working for development of the state and new airports, highways and even waterways have come up. Besides other schemes, the government is giving free tablets and smart phones to the youth,” he added.The BJP government helped the poor during the lockdowns when the pandemic was at its peak but leaders and workers of other parties were in “home quarantine” and were opposing the vaccination drive. Due to massive efforts of the government, 19.25 crore people in the state had been vaccinated so far, the CM said.UP cabinet minister Sidharth Nath Singh said the mafia who used to grab land and terrorise people in Prayagraj had been sent to rot in jail in Gujarat. Referring to the infamous “Madrasa incident’ of Kareli area in which two Muslim girls of a Madrasa were allegedly gang-raped, Singh said, “The mafias who were active in Prayagraj were not loyal to even their own society and religion. They gangraped the innocent girls but were not punished. The case will be reopened if the BJP government returns to power. The mafias and their henchmen tortured the children of Pasi and Pal families in Dhumanganj area for grabbing their land. The government has freed 200 bighas of land from mafias which will now be used for housing the poor.” On January 17, 2007, two girls of Madrasa Jamia Al Saalihat Islamia were allegedly gang-raped.
26-12-2021||Other||Unethical policies of two families turned Punjab bankrupt: Shekhawat||Jalandhar Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) election in-charge for Punjab and Union minister Gajendra Singh Shekhawat has claimed that the pioneering state had been left nearly bankrupt, due to the unethical policies of two families. Addressing a press conference after the inauguration of the party’s central office for the assembly elections in Jalandhar on Sunday, Shekhawat alleged, “Regrettably, the Gandhi family of the Congress and the Badals of the Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) have ruined Punjab. Blatant corruption and absolute disinterest in creating opportunities for its citizens by the two families has led to its economic duress.”On the issues of sacrilege, he claimed that the need of the hour was an in-depth probe into finding the truth behind such conspiracies that disturbed peace in Punjab. “The astute voter of Punjab wants to know from where will the revenue be generated for the false freebies being announced by the Congress, the AAP and the SAD,” he said, taking a dig at populist politics, adding, “The public is exhausted with the loot, mafia and corruption in the state. The BJP will be victorious in assembly elections, and has a complete road map for putting the state back on track.”Punjab BJP president Ashwani Sharma said an atmosphere of terror, in tandem with a corrupt regime has created fear in the minds of the general public. “The BJP will win on the strength of the complete road map, we have in place, of bringing the state out of its economic duress. We will create opportunities to progress for each member of the state,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/unethical-policies-of-two-families-turned-punjab-bankrupt-shekhawat-101640539180124.html
26-12-2021||Mumbai||City’s Covid-19 cases highest in six months||MUMBAI: The city recorded 896 new Covid-19 cases on Sunday, its highest single-day spike since June 23, when it had recorded 864 cases. Mumbai’s cumulative cases stood at 770,910 on Sunday, with two deaths on Sunday, compared to 23 fatalities on June 23. The state reported 1,648 Covid-19 cases on Sunday, its highest single-day increase in 64 days. Maharashtra had reported 1,710 cases on October 23. Maharashtra also saw the highest single-day surge in new Omicron variant patients with 31 cases reported on Sunday, taking the state’s tally to 141, the highest in the country. Mumbai accounted for 27 of those, also the highest in a day so far. Experts, however, said that it will take at least two more weeks of sustained rise in cases for them to conclude whether this is the third wave of Covid-19. Maharashtra’s Covid-19 task force member Dr Shashank Joshi said the city’s current spurt can be linked to festivities and the ongoing wedding season. “These are small, scattered cluster breakouts due to high population density and social gatherings. We will have to closely monitor and contain these clusters and watch the trends in the coming weeks before labelling the spurt as a wave,” he said, adding that a fresh wave will have to be corroborated with a rise in test positivity rate as well as a lower doubling rate. “For now, it is apt to call the rise in cases as a spurt,” he said. Maharashtra’s active case count rose to 9,813 on Sunday. Mumbai, meanwhile, reported 896 fresh Covid-19 infections, taking the tally to 770,910. Mumbai also reported two fatalities, taking the city’s death toll to 16,370. The city’s active case count stood at 4,295. As Omicron cases mount in the State, Maharashtra welcomed the Centre’s decision to vaccinate children and the ‘precaution’ doses for healthcare workers, frontline workers, and senior citizens with comorbidities. The state government is gearing for booster dose and vaccination of children. Apart from 27 in Mumbai, Sunday’s new Omicron cases include two from Thane and one each from Pune rural and Akola, the state health department said. All the patients have a history of international travel, except one, who is a high-risk contact of a person with international travel history. According to the health department, of the 31 cases, six are minors. Only two patients have mild symptoms and 29 other patients are asymptomatic. Of all the infected patients, 22 are fully vaccinated and three adults are not vaccinated, while six minors are ineligible. State health minister Rajesh Tope said Maharashtra is prepared to handle vaccination of beneficiaries between ages 15 and 18, and booster doses for healthcare workers (HCWs) and frontline workers (FLWs) as well. From January 2022, India will begin administering the coronavirus vaccine to children of ages 15 to 18, along with booster doses to HCWs, FLWs and senior citizens with comorbidity, Prime Minister Narendra Modi had announced in a televised address on Saturday. Tope said the state administration is prepared to tackle the vaccination of the new category and booster doses. “I am confident that with the rising cases of Omicron, booster doses and vaccination for children will be helpful,” Tope said. “We are inoculating at a good speed and we will be ready for the new categories by the time the next drive kicks off.” He said the state is awaiting Central government guidelines to understand the type of vaccine and the gap between the last shot administered and the booster dose. Meanwhile, officials said that the exact number of beneficiaries of the 15 to 18 years is being worked out. The state estimates that there would be 3.5 million healthcare workers (HCW) and frontline workers (FLW). Till December 25, Maharashtra has administered vaccine doses to 3.44 million (3,442,973) HCWs and FLWs. “We have not received a notification from the Centre on the next vaccination drive,” said state immunisation officer Dr Sachin Desai. Officials added that modifications will have to be made in the CoWin App by the Centre for appointments to be generated, slots, etc, for vaccination. “We do not have the number of beneficiaries that would come under the 15 to 18 years bracket. By the coming week, we will know the exact numbers,” Dr Desai said. He added, “Overall, there will not be major change. All our machinery and process are well established. People are coming in to take vaccines and we have adequate stock.” A state health department official said, “We will have three vaccines soon – including Covishield, Covaxin and Zycov-D. Some studies show that a mix-and-match of vaccines can give good results. In the coming week, we will get instructions about the execution plan about booster doses. The Centre will give guidelines on what vaccine to use.” 
26-12-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana | Massive fire breaks out in fabric manufacturing unit||A massive fire broke out at a prominent fabric manufacturing unit in the city in the wee hours on Sunday. While there were no injuries, fabric and machinery worth lakhs were gutted. The fire, which erupted on the top floor of Sungrace Fabrics Private Limited at Kaali Sadak, was first noticed by the labourers working on night shift at around 5.30am. The workers immediately raised the alarm and called the fire brigade. The fire was doused after an intensive six-hour firefighting operation. Fourteen fire tenders were pressed into service for the firefighting operation. The vehicles had to make double rounds to replenish water in the tanks. Fire officials were also seen refilling the fire tenders with water from other factories in the area. The fire was completely extinguished by noon. The top floor of the three-storeyed building was completely destroyed, and the machines on the first floor were also damaged. Leading fireman Rajinder Kumar said the fire safety equipment at the factory was insufficient, and though 14 fire tenders were pressed into service, they had to be repeatedly refilled. “Luckily, no one was injured,” he said, adding that the fire was caused due to a short-circuit.The proprietor of the fabric manufacturing unit, Vimal Jain, said the fabric stored on the top floor had turned to ash, while the heavy machinery was also damaged. Founded in 1994, Sungrace Fabrics, is one of the leading exporters and manufacturers of fabric.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/massive-fire-breaks-out-in-fabric-manufacturing-unit-101640536239133.html
26-12-2021||Pune||Omicron restrictions in Pune put wedding celebrations between rock and hard place||PUNE As the state government declared new restrictions against the backdrop of the Omicron Covid variant, weddings planned for the year-end have been severely impacted. With the number of guests restricted families preparing for weddings are having to realign their preparations in terms of location, F&B and invitees.The entire wedding celebration ecosystem has begun to shudder.“My son’s wedding is scheduled on December 28 at Panvel and from both sides we had invited around 500 guests from all across Maharashtra. Now as per the new restrictions, only 100 guests are allowed inside the marriage hall, and so now we have started calling the guests who can be called later. Accordingly, the list is now reduced to 100 to 150 guests, and after the marriage for the pooja at our house the remaining guests will be invited,” said Anil Kakade, father of a bridegroom. Shruti Khinvsara’s wedding is scheduled in the first week of January. She said, “ My wedding is scheduled on January 7 and we have booked a marriage hall with lawns and around 1,000 guests are going to be invited. Now due to new strict restrictions imposed by the state government, all the planning and expenses done will be wasted. We are confused about whether to postpone the wedding or go with a few wedding guests.”On December 24, the state chief minister Uddhav Thackeray took a review meeting with the state Covid task force and it was decided to impose strict restrictions. According to the new state Covid guidelines, only 100 people are allowed at indoor weddings. While not more than 250 are allowed for outdoor weddings on open grounds and party lawns. Just like Shruti there are several families of both brides and bridegrooms, who have weddings in their houses and now have to restrict the number of people attending the event. The effect is now seen on the weddings scheduled in December, and January and February next year. Talking about the impact of these restrictions on wedding halls owners, Kishore Jagdale owner of Shreesai Wedding lawns in Kalyani nagar said, “After the new Covid guidelines were announced, immediately we started getting calls from families who had booked our wedding lawn. They first reduced the number of people and hours, and mainly the food order which is a major part of any wedding. Some have now postponing the wedding and couple of them have cancelled the bookings. When such restrictions are imposed, it not only impacts the wedding families, but on an entire eco system of vendors and their workers who earn their bread and butter from it.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/omicron-restrictions-in-pune-put-wedding-celebrations-between-rock-and-hard-place-101640535100031.html
26-12-2021||Other||Next Punjab govt will face ₹10,000 cr power subsidy bill||Patiala Freebies, being given away ahead of Punjab’s assembly elections to the power sector, will saddle the next government with a bill of nearly ₹10,000, data shows. For the remaining three months and a few days of this fiscal itself, the state government has to pay the Punjab State Power Corporation Limited (PSPCL) ₹13,000 crore, an uphill task for the cash-strapped regime.Since assuming power in 2017, the Congress government has also defaulted on paying subsidy dues in every fiscal. The previous SAD-BJP regime had left arrears of ₹2,342 crore for it, this government has now allowed this burden to ballon to almost ₹10,000 crore. For PSPCL, this non-payment of dues in lieu of subsidies clubbed with the recent poll sops, has dried up its coffers; the utility is in acute financial stress. The corporation has not even received ₹2,023 crore in lieu of writing off arrears of defaulting 2 KW consumers.With chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi’s announcement of further sops, the subsidy bill for the present fiscal has touched ₹20,016 crore. The government, so far, has paid only ₹7,080 crore. If the PSPCL makes adjustments of ₹2,315 crore in lieu of electricity duty and other payments to be made to the Punjab government, even then the subsidy default stands at ₹6,000 crore till December 15; the revised balance amount, then, to be paid in three-and-a-half months is ₹10,025.The Punjab State Electricity Regulatory Commission (PSERC), in its tariff order for the current financial year, worked out a total subsidy of ₹17,796 crore, including the arrears of the previous year.In its annual revenue requirement filing for next financial year, the PSPCL has revised the current subsidy to ₹12,245 crore. It has added five month additional subsidies announced by the Punjab government for more concessions to domestic and industrial consumers from November 1, this year.“The total amount payable to PSPCL this fiscal is about ₹13,500 crore, which as per government track record, is not possible at all. Subsidies must be subject to checks and balances or timely payments have to be ensured, as per PSERC orders. Using PSPCL for political freebies will dent it financially, and consumers will suffer,” said VK Gupta, spokesman, All-India Power Engineers Corporation. He added that for the next fiscal, the PSPCL has sought a subsidy of ₹13,929 crore based on the present tariff order. Going by this trend, this was likely to touch ₹20,000 crore, which is almost 15% of total budget of Punjab.Punjab finance secretary KAP Sinha could not be contacted for comments; but, sources in the PSPCL said every effort was being made to ensure that the government cleared its subsidy bill. 
26-12-2021||Pune||Queues of vehicles at toll nakas as Punekars drive out for year-end festivities||PUNE The long weekend of the Christmas celebrations and next week, the year-end beckons; this has attracted people to tourist destinations in Pune district. This has also lead to a major traffic jam and long queues of vehicles at toll nakas around Pune. People’s vacation trips to destinations around Pune district can be seen and experienced on the highways.On Sunday, queues of over 2km were seen at the Khed Shivapur toll naka on the Pune - Bengaluru highway as tourists from Kolhapur, Mahabaleshwar and other tourist destinations were returning back to Pune. “I had to wait for around 45 minutes to clear the Khed Shivapur toll naka as there were long queues. We had gone to Mahableshwar for three days and expected traffic jams on the return,” said Kushal Das, a businessman from Pune. Similarly, long queues of vehicles were seen at the Urse toll naka on the Pune-Mumbai expressway, as Punekars chose to go towards Lonavala. Though there was fast clearing of the vehicles due to the ‘fast tag’ method, people had to wait for around 15 to 20 minutes to clear the toll naka. State highway police officials, speaking anonymously said, “There is huge rush of people going out for vacations, most and of them are not found following Covid norms as vehicles are packed. As it is the Christmas and year-end celebrations, we are monitoring the vehicles in queues at the toll nakas.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/queues-of-vehicles-at-toll-nakas-as-punekars-drive-out-for-year-end-festivities-101640534859853.html
26-12-2021||Pune||Pune dist admin primed and ready to roll out Covid vax for 15-18 age group||PUNE A maximum number of vaccination centres and maximum manpower will be used to inoculate children between the age group of 15 and 18 years in Pune district, said officials. Pune district will get the rollout plan for vaccination as soon as state directives are issued. Officials noted that the state directives will clarify how beneficiaries will be identified and reached. On Saturday evening, Prime Minister Narendra Modi announced that vaccination for children between the age group of 15 to 18 years will begin from January 2022. Ahead of that, the state machinery is likely to issue guidelines this coming week.Speaking about the vaccination drive, district collector Rajesh Deshmukh, said that a meeting will be conducted on December 27 to chalk out a strategy for vaccination of children between the ages of 15 to 18 years of age.“Pune district has so far inoculated the maximum number of people. We will continue to take similar efforts to inoculate children. There will be maximum centres and manpower dedicated to this drive. We will also mobilise beneficiaries. We are also exploring all strategies like reaching out to schools for maximum vaccinations. There is data shared by the health department which states the number of in the district,” said Deshmukh. Speaking about the number, Dr Abhay Tidke, district immunisationofficer, said that the plan will be rolled out soon.“On December 27, we are likely to receive directives from the State government. As of now, we don’t have the number of beneficiaries with us. As the beneficiaries are younger than 18 years of age, we don’t have clarity right now. The State guidelines will give the clarity on the vaccination drive,” said Dr Tidke.Speaking about the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) limits, Dr Suryakant Deokar, immunisation officer at PMC said that in PMC limits the number of beneficiaries should be around 500,000.“The approximate numbers are around 500,000, but how the inoculation drive will be conducted is still not clear. The state directives will clarify the centres and also highlight which vaccine will be administered to this age group,” said Dr Deokar.According to the Maharashtra State board records, there are at least 2.20 lakh students registered with the board to appear for the exams for Classes 10 and 12.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pune-dist-admin-primed-and-ready-to-roll-out-covid-vax-for-15-18-age-group-101640534499802.html
26-12-2021||Other||Sidhu bats for Sekhri from Batala; calls FIR against Majithia a ‘formality’||Batala Punjab Pradesh Congress Committee (PPCC) chief Navjot Singh Sidhu on Sunday supported cabinet minister Tript Rajinder Singh Bajwa’s staunch rival and former minister Ashwani Sekhri, even appealing to a rally to elect him as MLA from Batala in the upcoming assembly polls. Sidhu, who addressed the rally that Sekhri had organised, said no outsider will be allowed to fight polls in Batala, without naming Bajwa, who is the MLA from nearby Fatehgarh Churian. Bajwa has shown his inclination to contest from Batala, but without openly declaring it. Sekhri and Bajwa have remained at loggerheads, with Sekhri even accusing Bajwa of planning to get him killed through gangsters. Bajwa had strongly denied this. “I want to ask people of Batala, whom they would like to field? I say that no one will come from outside here...Our party has already made history by making a Dalit CM….This seat (Batala) will stay where it has been. I will not allow anyone else to come here,” Sidhu said, while appealing to the rally to elect Sekhri as MLA from Batala.A few months ago, Sekhri had announced that he would be joining the Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD), but former CM Capt Amarinder Singh had made him the chairman of the Punjab Health Systems Corporation. Bajwa didn’t respond to repeated calls for his version.Last month, Sidhu had supported Qadian MLA Fateh Jung Bajwa at a rally. Fateh is also a rival of Tript Bajwa and Punjab home minister Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa. Notably, Tript and Randhawa were among ministers who had supported Sidhu’s cause against former chief minister Amarinder Singh. Veiled attack on Channi, says only announcements will never work In an attack on chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi, Sidhu said there were only announcements for providing cheaper sand and cable networks. “Are you getting cable at ₹100 per month? Are you getting cheaper sand? The price of sand is ₹3,700 and ₹4,000…That is why I am saying to you that these will not happen only with talks; these will happen with policies; with budget allocation,” he said.Calling the FIR against ex-SAD minister Bikram Singh Majithia a mere ‘formality’, Sidhu said, “FIRs were also registered after sacrilege incidents, but no justice has been delivered for six years.”“Today, where is Majithia?...The mothers who lost their sons to drugs are still waiting for justice. Nothing will happen with an FIR, until police straps are not unleashed; until he (Majithia) is not arrested,” he added.Hinting at his desire to become the CM, he said, “I give my word that I will extract between ₹20,000 crore and ₹25,000 crore from liquor...If you want to vote to save the next generation of Punjab; if you want to vote to give punishment to Majithia, then bring an honest person at the top. Only the CM does everything; he has absolute power…..It is your wish to bring mafia raj or end the mafia raj by choosing an honest person this time.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/sidhu-bats-for-sekhri-from-batala-calls-fir-against-majithia-a-formality-101640534439855.html
26-12-2021||Patna||Four Maoists held for murder of newly elected mukhiya in Munger||A joint team of Bihar special task force (STF) and Munger police on Sunday arrested four Maoists for allegedly beheading a newly elected mukhiya of Azimganj panchayat under Ladaiyatand police station of Munger district, said police. Parmanand Tuddu (30) was killed on Thursday before he could take the oath. A hardcore Maoist, identified as Suresh Koda, had on October 13 threatened Tuddu of dire consequences if he filed the nomination papers. But Tuddu did file the papers and also won from the margin of 99 votes on November 13. He was to take oath on December 31, said police.Munger SP Jagunath Jala Reddy said that the accused, identified as Kanan Naiya, Kaushal Koda, Chhathu Koda and Anil Koda, were arrested from Dharhara and Ladaiyatand police station areas. Kanan was also wanted in a Naxal-related case lodged with Ladaiyatand police station on September 20. According to Tuddu’s son Abhishek Kumar, over 10 suspected Maoists in police uniform forcibly entered his house when his father was sleeping. They pulled him out shouting slogans and beheaded him outside the house. Due to fear, the Tuddu family could not lodge a police complaint about the ghastly incident. On Sunday, Munger police lodged an FIR against 11 unidentified and 10 identified Maoists, including Parvesh Da, Arjun Koda, Suresh Koda, Nageshwar Koda, Baleshwar Koda, Shri Koda, Birendra Koda and Arvind Da, based on the statement of the SHO of Ladaiyatand police station. The SP said the four arrested persons confessed their involvement in the murder of the newly elected mukhiya. Raids are on to nab other accused, he said.. 
26-12-2021||Other||{Ludhiana bomb blast} Accused’s scooter found in Khanna, handlers’ involvement likely, say police||Ludhiana Police have recovered the scooter that the main accused, ex-policeman Gagandeep Singh, used on the morning of the bomb blast in the Ludhiana court complex on Thursday. CCTV footage around his residence in Khanna shows him leaving his house at 9am on a white Honda Activa; this two-wheeler has been found at the parking lot of Khanna civil hospital. Police are probing on how did he get to the court complex from his house in Khanna, 50km away. According to sources, the scooter being found indicates that Gagandeep could have been ferried to the court complex and handed over the explosives, en route. It also shows that the explosives were not kept at this house. “There is a strong possibility of the involvement of one or more persons, who may have been handling the explosives and who handed it over to Gagandeep. The presence of handlers in and around the court complex at the time of the explosion cannot be ruled out,” said an official privy with to the investigation. ACCUSED CREMATEDOn Sunday, the body of Gagandeep, who died while planting the bomb, was performed at a crematorium in Khanna at around 5pm. Except his father, wife and elder brother, no relative, friend or neighbour attended the cremation, all of them fearing police questioning.With the National Investigation Agency confiscating the Aadhaar card of the accused, the crematorium staff refused give wood, and other material needed to perform the last rites; they insisted on some identification before allowing the cremation. Later, police intervened and the cremation was performed. On Saturday, Sukhwinder Singh, 39, and notorious drug lord Ranjit Singh Chita, 54, were brought on a production warrant from the Ludhiana Central Jail, and a local court granted police their custody till January 1. These two had shared a barrack with Gagandeep in jail. A woman constable, who was allegedly the love interest of Gagandeep, was also detained for questioning. DCP (investigation) Varinder Brar said further probe was on.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ludhiana-bomb-blast-accused-s-scooter-found-in-khanna-handlers-involvement-likely-say-police-101640534019577.html
26-12-2021||Patna||GGI Index: What the ranking tells about Bihar’s progress||Bihar is ranked 15th among 18-major states (Group A and B category together) and 6th in Group B states, as per the latest Good Governance Index (GGI) - 2020-21, released by the Administration Reforms and Public Grievances (DARPG), Government of India, on Saturday in New Delhi. A biannual exercise, GGI was first published in 2019. This year, it includes 58 indicators for 10 important sectors. The indicators have been revised this year incorporating additional process-based indicators in addition to the outcome and output-based indicators.Bihar has been kept in other states ‘Group B’ category with MP, Rajasthan, West Bengal Chhattisgarh, Jharkhand, UP, Bihar, and Odisha. Though Bihar ranks second last in its category out of eight states overall, it has shown improvement in some key sectors.Sudhanshu Kumar, economist & associate professor, Centre for Economic Policy and Public Finance (CEPPF), Patna, said more weight has been assigned to the outcome and output based indicators compared to the process-based indicators while preparing the index and despite Bihar’s low ranking, it has done appreciably on the indicators associated with public infrastructure and utility sector, in which it is ranked No.1 in its category, ahead of states like Maharashtra, Madhya Pradesh, Karnataka, Tamil Nadu, Madhya Pradesh, West Bengal, Uttar Pradesh, and Rajasthan.GGI is a comprehensive and implementable framework to assess the state of governance across the states and UTs which enables ranking of states/districts. The objective of GGI is to create a tool that can be used uniformly across the states to assess the impact of various interventions taken up by the Central and state governments including UTs. Based on the GGI framework, the index provides a comparative picture among the states.“The infrastructure & utilities sector includes access to water, rural road connectivity, and electricity-related indicators. The state has recently taken many initiatives to improve these and its benefits are getting reflected with better ranking. There is one indicator, per capita power consumption which is highly correlated with per capita income and industry and therefore will increase with the overall development of the state. Availability of electricity and its access both have improved a lot in the state,” said Kumar.Similarly, on indicators concerning citizen-centric governance, the state is ranked fourth in its category and seventh overall among 18 states. “Bihar is among the first two states to enact right to service acts and first to have a grievance redressal mechanism. The state needs to improve online access to government services. This is something which can be easily improved,” Kumar added.The state has also shown improvement in human resource development and public health, in which it is ranked third in its category and 11th and 13th respectively among the 18 states. “The state needs significant improvement in the economic governance sector. It needs to improve its own tax revenue as the share of its own taxes in total revenue is as low as 26%. With improvement on this, the debt scenario will also improve. This is something where the state needs to work to realise long-term goals of economic development,” Kumar said.However, Bihar fared poorly on the front of social welfare and development, where it is ranked last in its category as well as overall among 18 states. “Bihar has done well on empowerment of women. However, more needs to be done on this to improve relative performance. Better coordination and implementation on MGNREGA will give better results in this sector. Lower health insurance coverage is one of the indicators used which is something that goes up with overall economic development as people realise benefits of insurance,” he said, adding the state also needs to improve the availability of police personal.“Good proportion of police personal in the state are women, which is impressive and any further increase in personal will help in improving ranking on other indicators too. Areas of concern as highlighted by the index are low conviction rate and poor performance on disposal of court cases,” he added.The index reflects that the state has a lot of catching up to do on the key fronts of agriculture & allied sector and commerce & industry, where it is ranked 6th and 7th in its own category. Industrial growth in Bihar, however, has shown a dip. “The state needs to work on crop insurance and generating surplus through value addition, besides ensuring improved access to the market. The state also needs to focus on ease of doing business and encourage a start-up environment, as this area has a lot of competition from other states. In the environment sector also, Bihar has to lay stress in waste recycle and renewable energy,” he added.
26-12-2021||Other||Seven killed, 11 injured in Muzaffarpur boiler blast, probe ordered||At least seven people were killed and eleven others injured when the boiler of a plant -- used for preparing processed food and confectionery -- exploded in Muzaffarpur district on Sunday morning, officials said. Confirming seven deaths, Jayant Kant, senior superintendent of police (SSP), Muzaffarpur, said the incident occurred at a noodles factory located in Bela Phase-2 under Bela police station around 10 am. “Prima facie, it appears that the accident occurred due to the blast in a boiler. Most of the victims were daily wage earners. The list of the victims is being prepared,” said Kant. Two other factories nearby were also damaged in the explosion, he said. Chief minister Nitish Kumar expressed deep shock over the tragedy and offered condolences to the bereaved families. He announced a probe into the blast and compensation of ₹4 lakh each to the kin of every deceased. Minister of revenue and land reforms Ramsurat Rai said, “We need to find out why the factory was operational on a Sunday. A government certificate was given for the operation of the boiler in May. A high-level inquiry will be conducted followed by action against those found guilty.” Soon after the incident, locals launched the rescue operation and rushed victims to SKMCH in coordination with the district administration. Later, a state disaster response force (SDRF) team was pressed into search operation by the district administration. The SDRF recovered three bodies till the filing of this report. “The bodies were badly mutilated, body parts were maimed and beyond recognition,” Guneshwar Mandal, inspector, SDRF Muzaffarpur, said. When contacted, Dr Babu Saheb Jha, superintendent of Shri Krishna Medical College & Hospital (SKMCH), said all seven victims were brought dead. “Seven others who sustained injuries in the explosion are undergoing treatment with minor to moderate injuries. Their condition is stable,” he said. Pravan Kumar, district magistrate (DM), Muzaffarpur, said action will be taken against those found responsible. “It would be too early to comment on the accident right now. We will look into the causes behind the accident after the rescue operation and investigate the matter from all possible angles,” said the DM. Residents dwelling near the factory said that the area resounded with a deafening explosion accompanied by land shaking that occurred around 10 am. “At first, everyone thought that there was an earthquake,” said Shashi Rajan Rai, a local. The intensity of the blast was so severe that the sound could be heard up to 5 km, said another local. People familiar with the matter said the factory was set up around four years back for producing processed food like noodles and confectionaries. Meanwhile, Pankaj, one of the injured victims, said, “In the morning, when everyone was busy in their work, suddenly an explosion took place. Before we could understand anything, the machine started to fall apart. Few friends got trapped under it. There was shouting and confusion on the premises,” he said. Past incidents* March 28, 2017: A boiler exploded in a plywood factory in Patna. No casualty was reported. *December 21, 2017: Five people died in an explosion in a boiler at a sugar mill in Gopalganj. *November 16, 2019: Three people died after a boiler of a plant exploded in Sagauli, East Champaran.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/seven-killed-11-injured-in-muzaffarpur-boiler-blast-probe-ordered-101640533419644.html
26-12-2021||Mumbai||Consider National Lok Adalat to clear pending railway claim cases: HC||Mumbai The Bombay high court (HC) recently directed the Maharashtra State Legal Services Authority (MSLSA) to consider setting up a National Lok Adalat to clear 26,395 cases that are pending with the Railway Claims Tribunal till September 2020. The directions were issued after the court was informed that there were cases pending since 1995 and to reduce pendency, a National Lok Adalat was held in five cities across the country in 2019, which helped them clear a large number of cases. The single-judge bench of justice Prithviraj Chavan, which was hearing multiple appeals against orders of the Railway Claim Tribunal (RCT), was informed by advocate G J Mohan Rao, president of the Railway Claims Tribunal Bar Association, Bombay, that there were numerous appeals pending in the HC as well the RCT. Advocate Rao added that the delay in settling claims was resulting in the denial of justice in the real sense to the litigants and hence, there was a need for the bench to issue directions for holding periodical Lok Adalats. Advocate Balasaheb Deshmukh, who practices before the RCT, placed a communication dated November 16, 2020 from the Ministry of Railways to the Principal Chief Commercial Manager, All India Railways, wherein it was stated that the pending cases were causing a huge loss to the railway exchequer.After hearing the submissions, the bench observed, “It is of common knowledge that most of the victims/deaths in the railway accident are mainly from socially disadvantageous strata of the society. Justice in real sense will have to be imparted to such helpless and hapless litigants.” The court further said, “It is equally important to note that due to pendency of such huge number of cases, Indian Railway is incurring huge expenditure in the form of interest due to long pendency of claim cases in various Benches of Railway Claims Tribunals. That itself is a loss to the Railway exchequer which can be avoided through expeditious disposal of claim cases by organising Lok Adalat.” Thereafter, the bench noted in its order, “Looking to the pendency of appeals in this Court, Registrar (Judicial) is directed to place this order before the Executive Chairman Maharashtra State Legal Services Authority, Mumbai for necessary directions in that regard.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/consider-national-lok-adalat-to-clear-pending-railway-claim-cases-hc-101640532338707.html
26-12-2021||Lucknow||Rajnath Singh lays foundation of BrahMos unit, defence technology centre in Lucknow||Defence minister Rajnath Singh on Sunday laid the foundation stone of the Defence Technology and Test Centre and BrahMos manufacturing centre that will be established by Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO) in Lucknow.Speaking on the occasion, Rajnath Singh said India wants to manufacture BrahMos missiles not to attack anyone, but to ensure that no other country has the audacity to cast an evil eye on it.The Yogi Adityanath government has allocated 200-acre land for the project in Lucknow. The BrahMos Manufacturing Centre, announced by BrahMos Aerospace, is a modern, state-of-art facility in the Lucknow node of Defence Industrial Corridor, Uttar Pradesh.The next generation BrahMos missiles will be manufactured here and this facility will be made operational in the next two-three years. Around 80-100 missiles will be manufactured at the Lucknow unit every year. Rajnath Singh expressed confidence that the foundation laying of the two units would herald a new chapter in defence manufacturing of the country, the economy of Uttar Pradesh and the city of Lucknow. He also said till date ₹1400 crore investment had been received in the Defence Corridor in Uttar Pradesh. Stressing the need to maintain nuclear deterrence, he said, “We want to manufacture BrahMos on Indian soil so that no country has the audacity to cast an evil eye on India.” The missile is capable of carrying a nuclear warhead.“It has never been the character of India to attack any other country or grab even an inch of land of any country,” he said.Rajnath Singh also stated that India has attained a respectable position in areas of defence technologies, including the development of state-of-the-art missile systems in the last few years and has made commendable progress in building its defence industrial base.He slammed Pakistan of carrying out terror attacks in the country.“There is a neighbouring country. It got separated from India sometime back. I don’t know why its intentions vis-a-vis India are always bad. It committed acts of terrorism in Uri and Pulwama,” the defence minister said.“And then our Prime Minister took a decision and we went to the soil of that country and destroyed terrorist hideouts and when there was a need for airstrikes, we did that successfully,” he said.“We gave the message that if somebody dares to cast an evil eye on us, then not just on this side of the border, but we can go to the other side and hit them. This is India’s strength,” Rajnath added.India carried out a surgical strike in September 2016 and cross-border strike in February 2019 in response to terror attacks in Uri and Pulwama.The defence minister praised Yogi Adityanath for expediting land acquisition for the project.“When I spoke to Yogiji and expressed the desire to establish this project, he did not take a second and said land will be made available at the earliest. I thank the chief minister for making 200 acres available in just one and a half months,” he said.“This will provide jobs to people living in Lucknow and in UP. I can see that a new chapter has been added to the economy of Uttar Pradesh,” he added.Rajnath Singh stated that action against mafias and improved law and order scenario in the state has made Uttar Pradesh favourite destination for companies in India and abroad. Rajnath Singh, who represents Lucknow in Parliament, also said: “Uttar Pradesh is achieving new heights under chief minister Yogi Adityanath.”Rajnath Singh also listed development works of the state government, including expressways, flyovers and roads. “Before 2017, riots were common, criminals and mafias ruled the roost in the state. But today Uttar Pradesh’s law and order is being discussed in other states. ‘UP ki sarkar bhaut asardar’ is what others are saying,” said Rajnath Singh. The defence minister talked about the Yogi Adityanath government’s drive against mafias.“Bulldozers are busy and having a field day in Uttar Pradesh,” said Singh while pointing out demolition of mafia turned politician Atiq Ahmed’s establishments in Prayagraj. On the occasion, Singh also pointed out effective rollout of all welfare schemes of the Modi government by Yogi Adityanath in the state. Work has begun on six nodes of Defence Corridor in UP: YogiChief minister Yogi Adityanath on Sunday said work had begun on all six nodes of the Defence Corridor in UP.Foundation laying of two units (BrahMos and Defence Technology Testing Centre) is fulfilment of the vision of ‘Aatmanirbhar Bharat’ in the defence sector, Yogi Adityanath added. The chief minister added that these units would provide avenues for employment for youth.MSMEs have been promoted in the state in the last four and a half years, he further said.“UP has a strong MSME base and it will become an export hub,” the chief minister said after defence minister laid the foundation stone for a BrahMos unit and a defence technology and test centre in Lucknow. Yogi Adityanath also said 40 lakh (4 million) migrants returned to Uttar Pradesh during the pandemic and most of them were given jobs. DRDO chairman G Satheesh Reddy thanked the defence minister and the chief minister for making land available for the BrahMos project in the state capital. 
26-12-2021||Mumbai||Third wave may start if cases keep on rising for two more weeks: Experts||Mumbai The rise in the average daily cases in Mumbai this month has triggered one question- is it the beginning of the third wave already? Epidemiologists and health experts, who are closely monitoring the situation, said that if the rise continues for another two weeks, then the next wave has begun. For now, it looks like an expected surge due to social gatherings and crowding because of the festival and year-end celebrations. “A sustained rise for another two weeks will make it clear if the city has started seeing a fresh wave,” said epidemiologist and health systems expert Dr Chandrakant Lahariya. “If you plot the numbers on a graph, a sustained rise will show an upward curve, which will be an indicator of a wave. At the moment, the city authorities should closely watch the trend,” he said. Dr Lahariya said that every setting is likely to experience a different trend. For instance, while Mumbai and Delhi have recorded a spurt in cases over the past few days, the cumulative statistics from the country have not shown an upward trend. The rise in Mumbai’s average daily cases has been concerning. In the first week of December, the city’s average daily cases were 185. The number rose to 212 in the second week (Dec 7-14) and 270 in the third week (Dec 15-21). Worryingly, Mumbai five-day average between December 22 to 26 jumped to 671- a 148% rise compared to the previous week. “The rise was expected in presence of the highly transmissible Omicron variant,” said epidemiologist Dr Jayaprakash Muliyil, who is also a member of the National Technical Advisory Group on Immunisation in India (NTAGI). “If we start translating these numbers into a graph, it will look like the beginning of a new wave. But we should wait and watch the trend,” he said. According to Dr Muliyil, what matters is whether the wave is of any consequence. “Globally, the Omicron variant is replacing the Delta variant, but it is causing a mild disease and has not led to an increase in hospitalisations. Given the immunity that Indians have with the exposure to the virus as well the vaccination, it’s likely that the new wave may not be of any consequence,” he said. Maharashtra’s Covid-19 task force member Dr Shashank Joshi said that the city’s current spurt is linked to the festivities and ongoing wedding season. “These are small, scattered cluster breakouts due to the high population density and the gatherings. We will have to closely monitor and contain these clusters and watch the trends in the coming weeks before labelling the spurt as a wave,” he said, adding that a fresh wave will have to be corroborated with rise in test positivity rate as well as lower doubling time. “For now, it is apt to call the rise in cases as a spurt,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/third-wave-may-start-if-cases-keep-on-rising-for-two-more-weeks-experts-101640529699048.html
26-12-2021||Chandigarh||Kila Raipur readies for the birth of its library||Just days ago, my friend Paramjit Singh Grewal, who heads the Youth Club at Kila Raipur – the village known for the rural Olympics near Ludhiana, bombarded my phone with pictures, showcasing some construction work. As I patiently scanned through them, I was surprised, rather elated, for they were a perfect example of actions speak louder than words. Instantly, I was taken back to the after-dinner walks during my visits with the young minds of the club, two years ago, when we would go on talking about the library’s birth, with the help of villagers settled abroad. The seed of this discussion was sown as one evening we began counting gurdwaras of Kila Raipur. Sixteen in all, mostly built by NRIs with roots in the village. We wondered why they never came up with the idea of setting up a library. As we wandered that night under the starry sky on the silent streets, none of us knew that with that question the library would become our favourite topic, during almost every walk, inundating the air around with many creative thoughts, many of which are currently into play. After all, the club members have commenced meeting librarians, writers, poets, professors and even villagers – young and old for their suggestions and have initiated the collection of books and magazines, many sourced from homes, where they were just gathering dust. Excited, I have also compiled heaps of magazines and books from my own bookshelf and have asked many other book lovers to pitch in. I would also love to volunteer in the library as many other club members, chiefly when literary events would be organised, from writing contests to book meetings. This would be the village’s first public library and if the construction work continues as planned, it will be the most inspiring gift ever to the villagers on the upcoming Lohri festival in mid-January, and it would always offer free admission. It’s unfortunate that most villages and several towns are without a library. Books have the power to mould our minds, and eventually our lives. Laura Bush, the wife of former US President George W Bush, who has also been a librarian once concluded, “I have found the most valuable thing in my wallet is my library card.” Author JK Rowling too had a powerful epiphany for a library: “When in doubt, go to the library.” Words of Albert Einstein, which I recently came across on a school wall, also underline the library’s vitality in our lives. “The only thing that you absolutely have to know is the location of the library.” Hence, despite the discouragement from some villagers, who felt no one may visit the library, the youth club members went on to pursue their dream. A special thanks to everyone who supported them financially, especially NRIs from the village, who are now desperate to see their villagers becoming bibliophiles. Hopefully, other villages will follow suit as the birth of libraries will do wonders to infinite minds. Imagine their influence on youngsters! Even government bodies should play a big role in this direction. As Lilian Jackson Braun, an American writer, observed, “A library card is the start of a lifelong adventure.” I agree, for sure. rameshinder.sandhu@gmail.com The writer is an Amritsar-based freelance contributor 
26-12-2021||Pune||Time-bound Covid vax programme for minors needed: Maharashtra state task force||PUNE As the Prime Minister announced that from January 3, adolescents aged 15-18 years will be eligible for the Covid vaccination, the Maharashtra state task force has suggested a time-bound vaccination programme for this age group. Dr Sanjay Oak, chairman of the state task force, said that the majority of this age group should be immunised within one-1.5 months. He also emphasised the completion of the vaccination of the eligible adult population with both doses. “In terms of children, we actually had asked for the vaccination of the 12-18 age group. But 15-18 years old has evolved as a subset. Through the task force I have requested the government to design a time-bound programme. I have suggested that in 1-1.5 months the majority of children could be immunised. Currently the age group is 15-18. So, let’s immunise the maximum number in this age group,” said Dr Sanjay Oak in Mumbai on Sunday.He also explained that paediatric inoculation will be carried out at government and private centres. “I am sure that in the upcoming days, the centre will also give permission to inoculate 12-14-year olds as well. To fight Omicron it was essential to begin the vaccination of this age group. Administration is completely ready for it. Which centres should be utilised are identified. Supply will be ensured by administration, but vaccine doses will be administered in government, private centres and also through some schools,” said Dr Oak. State Health minister Rajesh Tope also claimed that his department is ready to carry out the paediatric immunisation programme and to administer precautionary doses to health workers in the 60-plus age group with comorbidities. “When centres will issue the guidelines, and we are fully prepared to carry out these programmes. Public health department and its staff will implement it properly,” said Rajesh Tope.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/timebound-covid-vax-programme-for-minors-needed-maharashtra-state-task-force-101640527599071.html
26-12-2021||Mumbai||ANC arrests two, seizes drugs worth ₹63L meant for New Year parties||Mumbai Anti-Narcotics Cell of the Mumbai police has stepped up its surveillance ahead of the New Year, after a foreign national and Goregaon-based scrap dealer was arrested on Saturday with cocaine and charas worth ₹63 lakh on him. During the investigation, he revealed that the contraband was ordered for New Year’s parties to be held in south Mumbai and western suburbs.In light of this, ANC has activated all its human intelligence, as well a few officials, who will go as party revellers to unearth drug use and its source in the city. The NCB had recently used the same ploy to board the Cordelia cruise ship.According to the ANC, a Nigerian national, Boyega Abubakar, 47, was arrested near Mandvi BEST sub-station in the Masjid Bunder area at South Mumbai on Saturday. During the search, the police found 110 gram of cocaine worth ₹33 lakh in his possession. Abubakar came to Mumbai a few years ago for a garment business and later started dealing drugs. In another case, the agency arrested Imran Mohammad Sharif, 38, in BMC colony, Santosh Nagar, Dindoshi, Goregaon (East). As per the tip-off, police inspector Rupesh Naik of the Kandivali ANC unit and his team arrested scrap dealer Sharif in the Goregaon area on Saturday evening when he was carrying 1.10 kilograms of charas worth ₹ 30.30 lakh. The accused confessed that he brought the consignment from Uttar Pradesh. He further claimed that he was aware of who the consignment was to be delivered to in Goregaon before December 26 as the consignment is for some important party in the city. “We have been working to find out other suspects involved in the case,” said deputy commissioner of police Datta Nalawade of the ANC. “We are collecting information through an informant and also checking social media to get clues of any drug party in the city. We are closely monitoring a few suspicious places. Several teams have been prepared in all five ANC units of the city and are working from different ways to get information” added Nalawade.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/anc-arrests-two-seizes-drugs-worth-63l-meant-for-new-year-parties-101640527118621.html
26-12-2021||Pune||51 from Ahmednagar’s Navodaya Vidyalaya test positive for Covid||PUNE The number of Covid cases at the Jawahar Navodaya Vidyalaya in Maharashtra’s Ahmednagar district went up to 51 from 19 on Sunday. These 51 patients include 48 students and three teachers, officials from the local administration said. Last week, 19 students from the residential school in Parner tehsil tested positive for the infection. Officials said most of the students and teachers are asymptomatic. “So far, 51 people, including 48 students and three staff members, from the Jawahar Navodaya Vidyalaya have tested positive for Covid. All of them have been isolated and hospitalised. Most students are asymptomatic and their health is stable,” said Dr Prakash Lalge, health officer, Parner taluka. According to the administration, all students and staff members were subjected to RT-PCR tests. The school has 400 students across Classes 5 to 12.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/51-from-ahmednagar-s-navodaya-vidyalaya-test-positive-for-covid-101640526698728.html
26-12-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai reports 922 fresh Covid cases & 2 deaths in 24 hours amid Omicron alarm||Mumbai on Sunday registered 922 fresh cases of Covid-19, a rise of about 200 infections in 24 hours. The Maharashtra capital also reported two related deaths, pushing the total fatality count to 16,370. A day ago, Mumbai reported 731 cases but no death due to the virus. Mumbai also recorded 27 of the 31 new cases of the highly contagious Omicron variant of the virus registered across the state. Maharashtra is currently the top contributor of the new strain with 141 cases.According to data made available by the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC), the country’s financial capital has 4,295 active coronavirus cases at the moment. Also, 326 patients recovered from the viral disease taking the cumulative recoveries to 7,47,864.#CoronavirusUpdates25th December, 6:00pmPositive Pts. (24 hrs) - 922Discharged Pts. (24 hrs) - 326Total Recovered Pts. - 7,47,864Overall Recovery Rate - 97%Total Active Pts. - 4295Doubling Rate - 1139 DaysGrowth Rate (19 Dec - 25 Dec)- 0.06%#NaToCoronaThe state registered a 1,648 Covid-19 cases pushing the cumulative tally to 66,57,888 infections.Meanwhile, the state government has imposed some restrictions, including curbs on gatherings of more than five persons between 9pm to 6am and a cap on the number of people attending public events. Besides, the BMC has banned all gatherings for New Year in both closed and open areas in view of the rising crisis. However, health minister Rajesh Tope said on Saturday statewide lockdown would be imposed only if the demand for medical oxygen touches 800 metric tonne per day.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-reports-922-fresh-covid-cases-and-two-deaths-in-24-hours-101640526216703.html
26-12-2021||Mumbai||Cops arrest two for parading two people naked 11 months ago||Mumbai Two men wanted by Mumbai Police since January 2021 were arrested on Saturday for allegedly kidnapping two youngsters and then whipping them, shaving their heads and parading them naked on suspicion of robbery.The police officers said that the accused have been identified as Ravi Rajendra Dulgaj (28) and Ajay Bidlan (26), who were arrested from different locations in Mumbai after an 11-month search. According to the police, on January 6, 2021, a group of six men abducted a 21-year-old man and a 16-year-old boy, assaulted them and paraded them naked at Kajupada in Malad. The group also made a video of the parade and uploaded it on social media. After the duo were freed, they had approached the police station. After registering a case of assault and an attempt to murder, four of the accused were arrested. The officers then began tracing the two wanted accused but could not arrest them.In November, API Bharat Ghone tracked Dulgaj through a phone number. “However, Dulgaj was changing his locations constantly from Wadala to Thane and other places. We then zeroed in on Dulgaj at Wadala on Saturday,” said Ghone.After questioning Dulgaj, the police traced Bidlan at Versova and arrested him.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/cops-arrest-two-for-parading-two-people-naked-11-months-ago-101640525918457.html
26-12-2021||Lucknow||Amit Shah says BJP will score chauka with fourth win in 2022 UP polls||Union home minister Amit Shah on Sunday said the BJP, which won the 2014 and 2019 Lok Sabha elections as well as the 2017 Uttar Pradesh assembly polls, would score a chauka (boundary) and register its fourth victory in 2022 UP polls.This time again, the BJP’s tally would cross the 300-seat mark in the 2022 UP polls, said Shah. He was addressing a rally in Kasganj where the BJP’s Jan Vishwas Yatra reached on Sunday.Amit Shah said that all six Jan Vishwas Yatras, flagged off on December 19 and travelling through 403 assembly constituencies, were getting a warm welcome from supporters across the state. Kasganj is part of Etah parliamentary constituency from where former Rajasthan and Himachal Pradesh governor and ex-UP chief minister the late Kalyan Singh, had been elected as MP.Amit Shah remembered Kalyan Singh and described him as a leader who let his chief minister’s post go (in 1992) when it came to the cause of the Ram temple in Ayodhya. “The landslide victory for BJP in 2014, 2017 and 2019 would not have been possible if there was no Kalyan Singh,” said Amit Shah.“Kalyan Singh ji spoke of good governance within Uttar Pradesh for the first time. He worked towards giving rights to the backward society. Kalyan Singh ji chose Ram Janmabhoomi over the chief minister’s chair,” Amit Shah said.Kalyan Singh’s son Rajveer Singh ‘Raju’, the current BJP MP from Etah, shared the stage with Amit Shah. The Union home minister also took a swipe at the Opposition parties in UP.“The regimes of Bua and Babua (Mayawati and Akhilesh Yadav) in Uttar Pradesh did not do any development for the masses and were confined to caste-based politics and their own families. On the other hand, the BJP, under Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s leadership, has worked for all,” Amit Shah said.“During the past regime in UP before 2017, girl students used to stay away from schools, but in these five years of Yogi Adityanath’s tenure as CM, it is now the criminals who are leaving the state. Decades had passed but work on the Ram temple in Ayodhya could not begin. Prime Minister Narendra Modi was voted to power again in 2019 and the Ram temple construction became a reality,” said Amit Shah.He asked the crowd if they would vote for those against the Ram temple in Ayodhya. The home minister also referred to the recently inaugurated Kashi Vishwanath Corridor in Varanasi.“The corridor of (Kashi) Vishwanath temple was deserted since the time of Mughal ruler Aurangzeb, but Modiji changed it all in Varanasi. Now, one carry ‘gangajal’ directly to the temple in Varanasi. The Congress, the SP and the BSP all, opposed but Modi abolished Article 370 in Jammu and Kashmir on August 5, 2019. There was terrorism during Congress rule at the Centre, but Prime Minister carried out surgical strikes across the border when terrorists targeted Uri and Pulwama,” the home minister said.“Earlier, there used to be riots in Uttar Pradesh, but now medical colleges and expressways are coming up in Uttar Pradesh. Not a single riot has taken place in Yogi Adityanath’s rule in state. Incidents of loot, rape and kidnapping have gone down in UP. Prime Minister Narendra Modi made free of cost vaccination for over 130 crore citizens of India a possibility,” Amit Shah said. Talking about development works in UP, he said, “Eighteen big schemes are being launched in the state. Thirty medical colleges and five expressways are coming up in Uttar Pradesh. Sugarcane farmers are being paid their due amount and 20 sugar mills are being modernized.” The Union home minister ended his speech with “Jai Sri Ram”. Deputy chief minister Keshav Prasad Maurya, in his speech, highlighted that SP president Akhilesh Yadav did not pay tribute to “Babuji’ (Kalyan Singh) and asked his followers to avenge the insult to Singh who championed the cause of the backward castes. 
26-12-2021||Other||Gurugram: MCG to procure four anti-smog guns||In a bid to check air pollution in the city, the Municipal Corporation of Gurugram (MCG) has decided to procure four anti-smog guns by next month, officials said on Saturday. As per the officials, each gun will be affixed atop a vehicle with a water tank and transported to different corners of the city where localised air pollution levels are high.The MCG has floated a tender in this regard, bids of which will be opened on December 28, they said, adding that the operation and maintenance of these machines will be outsourced.“Anti smog guns are one of the many measures we are looking to introduce in the city to reduce air pollution levels. We are procuring only four such machines at the start to gauge the extent of its impact before introducing it on a large scale manner,” said Subhash Yadav, district forest officer (DFO) who is also the nodal head for the environment and sustainability wing in the MCG.According to the detailed notice inviting tender for procuring the guns, it will cost the MCG ₹9.38 lakh.Each gun will be operated in an eight hour window, said the officials. Depending on the capacity of the water tank, each machine can work for at least four hours continuously, they said.Anti smog guns were trialled by the Delhi Government in December 2017 and have become a regular feature in the national capital ever since, in its “war on the pollution” campaign.Some MCG officials, though, are largely sceptical of the move. “The four guns have been ordered so as to show the central authorities that we are taking various measures to bring down localised air pollution levels in Gurugram. The MCG is any way sprinkling water on the ground. Dispersing water in the atmosphere through anti-smog guns is thus redundant and a waste of money,” said a senior MCG official, seeking anonymity.Experts said that the MCG should focus on initiatives that have scientifically been proven to bring down air pollution levels. “There is no proper scientific study carried out to analyse and determine the impact of anti-smog guns. Instead, the MCG should focus on Grap measures that have shown positive results on checking air pollution,” said Suneel Pandey, director of environment and waste management division at TERI School of Advanced Studies. An anti-smog gun works similar to rain. In this, high pressurised water also known as atomised water is sprayed in the atmosphere, around 40-50 metres in height, to bring down pollutants, suspended particles, and dust.
26-12-2021||Other||Steady rise in Covid patients as Gurugram sees 59 new cases||The number of Covid-19 patients is rising steadily in Gurugram with the district on Saturday reporting 59 new cases, according to data from the district health department. On Friday, the district had recorded 48 fresh cases, highest in the past six months. Health department officials, however, said that despite the spike in fresh Covid-19 cases, there is no need to panic as most of the patients have mild symptoms. Of the 219 active patients in the district, only four are hospitalised, the officials said, adding that 14 patients also recovered from the viral disease on and were discharged on Saturday. Dr Virender Yadav, chief medical officer, Gurugram, said that they are ramping up the testing exercise across the district to identify if there is any area specific spread. “We conducted over 5,000 tests on Saturday and the numbers will be increased. The vaccination for Covid-19 is going on and people who have not taken their second dose should get it at the earliest,” said Yadav, adding that contact tracing is also being done on priority to prevent the spread of infection. On Saturday, the health department collected 5,046 samples for testing, which takes the total testing numbers to 2,265,618, shows the data. As per the health department, 8,385 people received Covid-19 jabs at 84 vaccination centres, and this took the total number of doses administered in the district so far to 4,174,821. Meanwhile, Yash Garg, deputy commissioner of Gurugram, asked the city residents to ensure that they have taken both doses of Covid-19 vaccine and also follow the social distancing norms strictly. “The danger of Covid-19 is not over. All citizens must wear a mask and observe social distancing,” he said. Garg also said that in order to curb the spread of the pandemic, the district administration will ensure that night curfew is followed strictly and there is no violation of social gathering norms.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/steady-rise-in-covid-patients-as-gurugram-sees-59-new-cases-101640523338476.html
26-12-2021||Lucknow||Yogi asks officials to get ready to administer Covid vaccines to 15-18 age group||Chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Sunday asked the officials concerned to begin preparations and arrange Covid vaccines for administering to adolescents between the ages of 15 and 18 years from January 3 in consonance with Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s announcement.Yogi also told them to carry out fresh drives to give precautionary dose to corona warriors, frontline and healthcare workers as also people over 60 years with co-morbidities.The chief minister was addressing the officials at a Covid-19 review meeting.“Prime Minister Narendra Modi announced (on Saturday) the launch of Covid vaccination from January 3 for those between the ages of 15 and 18 years; and a precautionary dose from January 10 for corona warriors, frontline and healthcare workers as also for those above 60 years with co-morbidities (on the advice of doctors). Ensure availability of the vaccine and, for this, be in touch with the central government,” Yogi said.He said UP, so far, had done a great job in vaccinating people against Covid and the process should continue.“Launch an extensive awareness and publicity drive for vaccinating the adolescents,” Yogi said. He said UP had already administered 19.40 crore (194 million) doses of vaccine and 6.88 crore (68.8 million) people were fully vaccinated. He also specified that the state has given the first shot of the vaccine to 85% and both the doses to 47% of the target population.In the last 24 hours, 59 fresh cases of Covid-19 infection were detected in the state, while the total number of active cases in Uttar Pradesh reached 323, Yogi said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/yogi-asks-officials-to-get-ready-to-administer-covid-vaccines-to-15-18-age-group-101640521358317.html
26-12-2021||Other||‘ISJK terrorist responsible for killing of ASI in south Kashmir’: Police||Jammu and Kashmir police on Sunday said that an Islamic State Jammu and Kashmir (ISJK) terrorist, who was involved in the killing of a police officer recently, was killed in an overnight encounter with security forces in south Kashmir’s Anantnag district on Sunday.The slain terrorist was identified as Faheem Bhat of Kadipora, Anantnag.“He had recently joined terror outfit ISJK and was involved in the killing of Martyr ASI (assitant sub inspector) Mohd Ashraf, who was posted at police station Bijbehara,” said IGP Kashmir Vijay Kumar.On Wednesday evening, unidentified terrorists had fired upon Ashraf near police station Bijbehara who succumbed to his injuries.In the past three days, the security forces have killed six terrorists in south Kashmir including four on Saturday in two separate gunfights.A police spokesman said that they received information regarding the presence of a terrorist in village Kalan Sirgufwara area of Anantnag on Saturday evening following which a joint cordon and search operation was launched by Police and 3RR of the army.The spokesman said that as the presence of the terrorist got ascertained, he was given ample opportunities to surrender.“However, he denied the surrender opportunities and instead fired indiscriminately upon the joint search party which was retaliated leading to an encounter. In the ensuing encounter, the trapped terrorist was killed and his body was retrieved from the site of the encounter and identified as Faheem Bhat,” the spokesman said.The police said that incriminating materials including arms and ammunition were recovered from his possession. Police have registered a case under relevant sections of law. “People are requested to cooperate with Police till the area at encounter site is completely sanitized and cleared of all the explosive materials if any,” the spokesman said.“Pertinently, in the last 48 hours, joint teams of police and security forces neutralized 6 terrorists in four successful anti-terrorist operations without any collateral damage,” the spokesman added.Four terrorists were killed in two separate encounters in Shopian and Pulwama districts of south Kashmir on Saturday.The two terrorists slain in Shopian were identified as Lashkar-e-Taiba terrorists, Sajad Ahmad Chak and Raja Basit Yaqoob. In the second encounter in Hardumir area of Pulwama, officials said two terrorists were killed on Saturday afternoon who were identified as Nadeem Bhat and Rasool, alias, Adil, both affiliated with the proscribed terror outfit, Ansar Gazwat uL Hind.On Friday, a Hizbul Mujahideen terrorist Shahzad Ahmad was killed in an encounter with forces in Mominhall Arwani area of Bijbehara in Anantnag, police said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/isjk-terrorist-responsible-for-killing-of-asi-in-south-kashmir-police-101640519319215.html
26-12-2021||Other||Assam writer pens children book to address discrimination; gets lauded in India and abroad||Not all families are the same but they all can be happy units that contribute to a child’s well-being and growth. That’s the message a new children book tries to put across. Written by Pritisha Borthakur, Puhor and Niyor’s Mural of Family Stories portrays diverse families as seen by the eyes of the author’s twin sons Puhor and Niyor. It speaks of families with two mothers, two dads, multiracial families, single parents, family with adopted children and more. “Usually, we are told or shown about families as being units with grandparents, a father and mother and their children. But there are other kinds of families too and each of them is beautiful and unique in their own way,” said Borthakur, a former journalist who’s also an entrepreneur. Born and brought up in Assam, Borthakur, who’s based in Delhi these days, earlier penned a collection of poems. She wants her children and others to be compassionate towards each other and also know about unconventional families and other overlooked aspects of society.“We sometimes see children from unconventional families getting bullied. I wanted to portray these families so that children and parents understand that all kinds of families can be happy units and there should be no discrimination,” she said at the official launch of the book in Guwahati recently. The book has small stories like that of Demetria and her brother Isaac -children of a transgender couple, Ms Baruah who lives with her cats and consider them her family, Saheil-an Israeli child adopted by Chinese parents, Elvis-who’s mom is white and father is brown and a couple with Down Syndrome. “This anthology of stories illustrated through beautiful graphic is an inimitable effort at showcasing the diversity that exists in a modern society and implanting the idea of cohesion in young minds,” wrote Kuladhar Saikia, president of Asom Sahitya Sabha, Assam’s premier literary body, in the foreword to the book. “The one striking feature of the illustrative book is the simplicity of style. No attempt has been made to complicate the issues by useless elaboration. The intricate questions are left to be answered at a later date when they mature,” he adds. Eminent Assamese author and Sahitya Academy Award recipient Rita Chowdhury said the book will help children understand how families can be of different compositions and all of them can be accepted. “Some families try to hide issues like children who are autistic or adopted. This is a great step as this book talks about those children and their families. I would encourage Pritisha to publish this book in Assamese and other languages so that this conversation reaches all,” said child rights activist Miguel Das Queah. The book available online since September has already sold nearly 9,000 of the first edition of 10,000 copies in India and abroad. Nearly 4,000 copies have been sold in UK, UAE, Germany and Australia. Several schools in India have purchased copies for their libraries and the publisher Author’s Channel is in talks with schools in Delhi, Dubai and Bangalore to include it in their curriculum. A second edition is underway and Asom Sahitya Sabha is interested in translating it into Assamese soon. 
26-12-2021||Pune||Your Space: There is much to fear of Covid spread, little to gain from reopening schools||Is it wise to reopen schools now amid the apprehension of a possible third wave and the new Omicron variant hovering above us? Some readers say that it is not advisable to reopen schools and online education must continue, while others say that there is ample scientific and epidemiological evidence to indicate it is safe to reopen schools for children of all ages Not advisable to resume offline classes With the Omicron variant spreading fast and wide, it is not advisable to resume offline classes at school. Students are in the vulnerable age group that has not been vaccinated yet. Since the virus is airborne, going to physical school involves many touch points that cannot be avoided. Starting from boarding the school bus, attending classes with teachers, students coming from all over the city, eating lunch, walking the corridors and all the other activities that are part and parcel of being at school with peers. Recently, in an international school in the city, it so happened that the student was covid positive but parents did not inform the school. Such irresponsible actions are unexpected but happening around us. This shows the sheer desperation to be part of normal life. In another incident, someone tested positive but did not inform the house help, unaware she went to other houses to work. Each of us has to be extra vigilant and committed to maintain high standards of hygiene and safe distance when tested positive. If educated and well-informed citizens fail to do their part, how can we be sure about others who already refuse to follow simple protocols such as wearing masks and not spitting because they assume Covid is gone. Schools can achieve safe schooling only with 100% support from parents, staff, and students. Unfortunately, we are not there yet. Lack of awareness, transparency, due diligence and honesty is causing anxiety and can cost a life. Children have been resilient so far but we must not forget that the virus is evolving too. My child attended in person school 4 days a week in October and after the Diwali break, but after hearing about the unreported positive cases, I won’t take a chance. It will be online schooling until the end of the school year. Better safe than sorry, better late than never. Anuja Bali Students can go to malls but not schools Maharashtra Education Minister for Schools, Varsha Gaikwad has hinted at the possibility of shutting schools again due to the rising cases of the new Covid-19 variant that has escalated throughout Maharashtra. We will resort to protest if schools were shut again. Schools were closed in March 2020 following the outbreak of the pandemic. While it was decided that schools would reopen in the city from December 1, it was postponed to December 15 due to the detection of the Omicron variant. What is the rationale behind allowing children to enter malls, attend parties, go to movies and travel, but not attend schools? Sameer Nagavde We will protest if schools remain shut It is our demand that children of all classes be allowed to go back to school for physical classes. As parents we will not accept the closing of schools. In other cities across the country, schools have reopened and are running, Parents should decide if they want to send their children to schools or not. Parents will take to the streets and there will be protests if schools are closed again as there is no threat of Covid-19 and it is all but media propaganda being carried out to keep citizens in fear. There has been a good percentage of vaccination and hence it is not at all dangerous for school kids. Ahil Khan Reopening schools will put children at risk Education is an important aspect of our growth and development. Education is something that forms our personality. Educating the young minds in a free and happy environment is equally important. Covid-19 has changed the entire dimension of human life and co – existence. We have faced the various challenges related to Covid-19 and its variants like delta, mucor mycosis, omicron, etc. We have learnt that life is precious and we are the ones who need to take d precautions to safeguard our life and the life of our near and dear ones. We managed the online and offline options of work from home, study from home, etc. The starting of schools and colleges for students seems to be important from the point of view of education and their overall development. Students form an integral part of our society and their right formation leads to a strong society. But due to the rise of Omicron cases in India especially in Maharashtra is a major cause of concern now. If students of Class 1 to 7 need to go to school, the parents, guardians, school and private transport systems and many others have to be actively involved. This will surely lead to a lot of preparations as the students are totally dependent on various mechanisms to reach school, thus leading to a high risk. The Covid protocols of wearing a mask and physical distancing are especially forgotten and public places seem to be places of high risk for children. Many countries are heading towards lockdown again. It will be wise to be cautious and curb the problem when it is peeping up again in the form of Omicron. Students of Class 1 to 7 can still continue online education. We can strengthen our online education for this academic year. We could allow the third wave and related risk to pass on and become better equipped to face this pandemic by keeping our children safe. The students need to grow in a happy and safe environment so we need to support our vaccination drives and put our systems in order instead of creating chaos by opening schools. Dr Vilas Adhav Don’t hurry to reopen schools The reopening of schools will be risky, with the Omicron variant. We have been patient with online education so far and should not hurry in opening the schools. The children will be at risk of getting the virus. There is surge in cases. When we are talking of curbs, restrictions for elders why are we risking the lives of children by opening the school. This policy is not understandable Prof Rakesh Mittal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/your-space-there-is-much-to-fear-of-covid-spread-little-to-gain-from-reopening-schools-101640515117239.html
26-12-2021||Patna||Doctor arrested for violating liquor ban in Patna||A doctor was arrested for violating the statewide ban on liquor consumption after he consumed alcohol at his residence in Bihar's Patna. He was sent to jail, said a police official.The doctor was identified as Abhishek Mundu who claimed to be working at a hospital in Jharkhand's Jamshedpur.Speaking to the reporters on Saturday, Station house officer, Gardanibagh, Arun Kumar said, "All such people are under our radar who consume alcohol despite the ban on liquor in the state. We take action against them regularly. We got a piece of information that there is a doctor, Abhishek Mundu who is consuming alcohol in a church compound. Upon reaching the spot, a bottle of liquor was recovered from his possession.""When we got him tested, he was proven to have consumed alcohol. He said that he is posted at ESI hospital in Jharkhand's Jamshedpur and came here on the Christmas holiday. He has been sent to jail," Kumar added."We are investigating where did he get the supply of alcohol from," he said.On November 26, Bihar police personnel had taken an oath to ensure the implementation of the liquor ban in the state.Bihar Chief Minister Nitish Kumar had claimed in November that the crime rate in the state came down after the liquor ban.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/doctor-arrested-for-violating-liquor-ban-in-patna-101640513182112.html
26-12-2021||Jaipur||Rajasthan CM welcomes the centre's move to vaccinate children between 15-18 yrs||Rajasthan Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot on Saturday welcomed the Centre's decision to vaccinate children between 15-18 age group against COVID-19 and to provide a 'precaution dose' to the frontline and health workers amid  Omicron scare and said that the central government accepted his government's demand for the same."I am happy that by accepting our demand today, Prime Minister has announced booster dose and vaccination of children between 15 years and 18 years. Vaccine and COVID-19 protocol is the only way to fight covid," he tweeted."In consonance with the opinion of experts, we have written several times requesting the Prime Minister to issue guidelines regarding booster dose of COVID-19 vaccine, and vaccine for children."It is my humble request that everyone should understand the seriousness of COVID-19 and get them vaccinated and ensure strict adherence to the COVID protocol during this holiday season," he added.Earlier on Saturday, emphasizing precaution in view of the rise in cases of Omicron variant of COVID-19, Prime Minister Narendra Modi announced the start of vaccination for children in the 15-18 age group from coming January 3.He added that the healthcare and frontline workers have made a big contribution in keeping the country safe against COVID-19 and they will be given a 'precaution dose' from January 10 next year.He also said that senior citizens facing co-morbidities will have the option to go for a precautionary dose of COVID-19 on the advice of their doctors.The Prime Minister said that 61 per cent of the adult population in the country had been given both doses of COVID-19 vaccine while 90 per cent of the adult population has received the first dose. India started the COVID vaccination drive on January 16 this year.The Prime Minister said that the move to provide vaccination to children in the 15-18 age group is likely to aid in education normalization in schools and will reduce the worry of the parents with school-going children.The decision regarding precaution dose for frontline and health workers has been done in light of the amount of time that they spend in the service of COVID-19 patients."The decision of precaution dose will strengthen the confidence of healthcare and frontline workers," he said.Referring to the Omicron infections in India, the Prime Minister urged people not to panic and to follow precautions such as masks and washing hands repeatedly.He assured that nasal vaccine and the world's first DNA vaccine will be available for vaccination soon in the country.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jaipur-news/rajasthan-cm-welcomes-the-centre-s-move-to-vaccinate-children-between-15-18-yrs-101640511839674.html
26-12-2021||Other||6 killed in boiler blast in Bihar’s Muzaffarpur||At least six people were killed and many were injured when the boiler of a plant, meant for the preparation of processed food and confectionery, exploded in Muzaffarpur district on Sunday morning, officials said.The injured have been rushed to Shrikrishna Medical College and Hospital (SKMCH) at Muzaffarpur, the headquarter town of the district.Confirming six deaths, Jayant Kant, senior superintendent of police (SSP), Muzaffarpur said the incident occurred at a noodles factory located in Bela Phase-2 under Bela police station. “Around six people were injured. We are looking into the matter,” said Kant. When contacted, KP Singh, chief boiler inspector, Patna, said, “an accident has occurred. The exact cause of the same could not be known immediately”. People familiar with the matter, quoting eyewitnesses, said the incident occurred owing to the blast in the boiler at around 10 am. “The intensity of the blast was so severe that its sound was heard up to 5 km away,” said a local. At the same time, the noodles factory completely collapsed. At present, 5 fire brigade vehicles have been rushed to the spot. Police of Bela police station and Mithanpura police station have also reached the spot.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/6-killed-in-boiler-blast-in-bihar-s-muzaffarpur-101640504376152.html
26-12-2021||Dehradun||Police add names of two more seers in Haridwar hate speech case||The Haridwar police in its ongoing probe of the case against accused seers who allegedly delivered hate speeches against minorities during a three-day event in the city, have added names of two more seers in the case, said police on Sunday morning.The two accused named in the case were Annapurna Maa and the general secretary of Hindu Mahasabha Dharamdas Maharaj, both hailing from Haridwar. The names were added in the case registered in Haridwar Kotwali police station on Thursday on charges of promoting enmity between communities under section 153(a) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) against Jitendra Narayan Tyagi (formerly Waseem Rizwi) and others. Only Rizwi was initially named in the case with police having said that it would add more names as the probe unfolds.Station house officer of Haridwar Kotwali police station, Rakendra Kataith, while informing about the development said, “During the probe, police added the names of the above-mentioned seers after verifying the videos of the event which went viral.”“With the addition of the two names, the total number of named accused in the case is now three. As the investigation progresses, identities of more accused would be ascertained and added in the case,” said Kathait.State director general of police Ashok Kumar while assuring all possible legal action against the accused said, “Such events and hate speeches won’t be tolerated at all.”“The police had already registered a case based on a complaint lodged by one Gulbahar Khan in which only Tyagi was named while others were unidentified. However, police will be adding more names to the case as the probe unfolds,” said Kumar.The case under section 153 (a) of IPC was registered on Thursday night at Haridwar Kotwali police station after the videos of the three-day event named Dharma Sansad held from December 17-19, caused a massive furore on social media as the participating seers called for violence against minorities. The case is being investigated by a sub-inspector rank police officer of Kotwali police station.......
26-12-2021||Delhi||One killed, two injured after car hits divider near Mahipalpur flyover, overturns||A man was killed while two others were critically injured after a car they were travelling in hit a road divider and turned upside down near the Mahipalpur flyover in south Delhi on Sunday morning. The accident took place at around 7.30 am on the carriageway towards Delhi from Gurugram, police said.Deputy commissioner of police (southwest) Gaurav Sharma said that the Vasant Kunj South police station received a call at 7.40 am regarding the road accident. A police team reached there and found one damaged Skoda car lying upside down on the road. The police personnel rescued three injured men from the damaged car and rushed them to AIIMS Trauma Centre, where one of them was declared brought dead. “The injured men were identified as Rajkumar and Aditya, both aged 35. The identity of the deceased is still being ascertained,” said DCP Sharma. Police said they were trying to find out from where the three were coming and whether the one driving the car was drunk. The reason behind the accident is also being ascertained. 
26-12-2021||Bangalore||Karnataka reimposes night curfew, bans movement of people from 10pm to 5am||Karnataka on Sunday became the latest state to announce the return of night curfew in view of a fresh surge in Covid-19 cases, including those due to the Omicron variant. In a meeting chaired by chief minister Basavaraj Bommai, the state government decided that starting December 28, for a period of 10 days, there will be a ban on movement of people, from 10pm to 5am.Also Read | Omicron spread: Night curfews, prohibitory orders in states as festivities startThe Karnataka government further informed it will monitor the situation for these 10 days, after which, it said, the decision will be reviewed. For the upcoming New Year festivities, it reiterated restrictions announced earlier, i.e. complete prohibition on public celebrations, only 50 per cent occupancy in private spaces such as hotels, pubs, restaurants, and ban on special features such as disc-jockeying (DJ) events.Also Read | No New Year celebration in public, only jabbed can visit clubs: Karnataka widens virus curbsThe meeting also decided to implement decisions announced by Prime Minister Narendra Modi in a surprise address to the nation last night. In his speech, PM Modi announced that from January 3, those in the age group of 15-18 will also be covered under the national Covid-19 vaccination drive, which began on January 16 this year, and for which, at present, only adults (18 years and above) are eligible.The Prime Minister also announced ‘precautionary’ or booster shots, starting January 10, for health care workers, frontline workers and senior citizens having co-morbidities.Also Read | PM Modi announces Covid-19 jabs for kids, boosters for 60+Karnataka, meanwhile, has seen 31 out of at least 422 Omicron cases reported nationally thus far. Of the southern state's Omicron caseload, seven were confirmed on Saturday. Its tally is the seventh-highest in the country, after Maharashtra (108), Delhi (79), Gujarat (43), Telangana (41), Kerala (38) and Tamil Nadu (34).As many as 13 states, including Karnataka, and four Union territories have, thus far, reported infections of this latest variant of the coronavirus.Also Read | India's Omicron tally rises to 422, daily Covid infections at 6987On December 25, the state also detected 270 fresh Covid-19 cases and four related fatalities. Its overall tally stands at 3,004,239 including 2,958,630 recoveries, 38,309 fatalities and 7271 active patients.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/karnataka-reimposes-night-curfew-bans-movement-of-people-from-10pm-to-5am-101640496859190.html
26-12-2021||Chandigarh||Manohar Lal Khattar launches Haryana Kaushal Rozgar Nigam portal||Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar on Saturday launched the Haryana Kaushal Rozgar Nigam portal and announced the setting up of Atal Park and Smriti Kendra in Gurugram.At a programme organised on the occasion of Good Governance Day, a magazine ‘Vyavastha Parivartan Se Susashan’ – along with the 2022 official calendar – was also launched.The chief minister also honoured 78 officers and employees for their commendable work in various fields. On the birth anniversary of former prime minister Atal Bihari Vajpayee and Madan Mohan Malviya, the chief minister said after forming the government at the Centre in 2014, Prime Minister Narendra Modi called upon citizens to celebrate Good Governance Day every year on December 25.Moving forward in the direction of good governance, the state government has taken various bold decisions in order to strengthen and revive the system, Khattar said.As an example, the chief minister pointed out that now all the problems of the public are being solved easily through the ‘CM Window’. So far, more than 8.5 lakh issues have been resolved, he added.The Haryana government has also abolished the practice of remand in the cases of the revenue department. Now, only a maximum of two appeals can be made in this regard. Apart from this, a run-through system has also been implemented to accelerate file work associated with this initiative. With this, the government has abolished the contractual practice for recruitments made in various departments, the chief minister said.Over 13 lakh cards made under Svamitva YojanaSo far, 13,47,609 Svamitva cards have been made under the Svamitva Yojana in Haryana; out of which about 1.90 lakh have already been distributed.During Saturday's programme, the Haryana chief minister handed out Svamitva cards to five people. In addition, he interacted with Bhim Singh of Dhaka Gujran village, Darshana Devi of Karnal's Rukhsana village, Dharam Singh of Shahpur Khurd village, and Sudesh Devi of Faridabad's Alipur village and congratulated them on getting the Svamitva card.The chief minister said steps will be taken to prevent the children in the age group of 5 to 18 years from dropping out and work in this regard has already been initiated in the Mewat district of the state.Khattar honours departments, officersThe Haryana chief minister on Saturday rewarded officers of the departments of revenue and disaster management and panchayat development and the district administration for commendable work under the Svamitva Yojana.Similarly, officials of the public works department (PWD) and the HARTON and Haryana engineering works department were also honoured for preparing the portal for agriculture and farmers’ welfare.Similarly, for commendable performance regarding the emergency response system (Dial-112), officers of the home, health, fire, district administration, school education department, and the Vikalpa Foundation were awarded in recognition of the Super-100 scheme.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/manohar-lal-khattar-launches-haryana-kaushal-rozgar-nigam-portal-101640494331928.html
26-12-2021||Delhi||Easy hacks to make your cake fluffy||Everyone wants and desires the perfect, fluffiest sponge. With some precautions and tricks, one can make a perfect cake. Here are some tips by Zareen Shaukat Shaikh, pastry chef and Instructor: *Sift dry ingredients like flour, baking powder or soda. This is aeration, which gives your sponge a light texture*Use ingredients at room temperature*When whisking eggs, start at a low speed, and gradually increase it. This causes proper aeration which results in a fluffy sponge*Bake at a correct temperature so that your cake doesn’t sink or become dense*Replace milk with buttermilk - this causes an acidic reaction, which equals to a lighter and fluffier sponge*Do not over mix your flour and do not over fold your batter. If you do this, your sponge will be extremely rubbery.The chef believes cake decoration is the most daunting and important task, it is what will make or break your cake, because at first glance, people will see your creation. “Personally, I prefer to keep it classy, and elegant, and not overdo things, when it comes to beautifying a cake. A clean finish is far more attractive than a cake that is overloaded with various elements or toppers,” says Shaikh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/easy-hacks-to-make-your-cake-fluffy-101640488962189.html
26-12-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai jumbo block: Western Railway to carry out maintenance work today. Details here||Mumbai local train services will be hit on Sunday as Western Railway will undertake a jumbo block on the Borivali-Gorgeaon route for track maintenance works. The block will be in effect for five hours, from 10:35am to 3:35pm, informed the Mumbai-headquartered Western Railway (WR).Also Read | Indian Railways to carry out jumbo, mega blocks in Mumbai: Check local train routes, timings“For track signalling and maintenance of overhead equipment, Western Railway will carry out a jumbo Block on Up and Down slow lines on Sunday, 26 December 2021 between Borivali and Goregaon stations from 10:35 hours to 15:35 hours,” WR's official handle tweeted on the eve of the exercise. ट्रैक सिगनलिंग तथा ओवर हैड उपस्करों के रख-रखाव हेतु पश्चिम रेलवे द्वारा रविवार, 26 दिसम्‍बर, 2021 को बोरीवली तथा गोरेगाँव स्टेशनों के बीच 10.35 बजे से 15.35 बजे तक अप तथा डाउन धीमी लाइनों पर जम्बो ब्लॉक लिया जायेगा। @RailMinIndia @drmbct pic.twitter.com/80s65YzPFlThe Divisional Railway Manager (DRM) of WR's Mumbai division was the first to inform of the impending jumbo block, on December 24. “On Sunday dated 26/12/21, a major block of 5 hours will be taken in hand for maintenance works, from 10:35hrs to 15:35hrs on UP and DOWN SLOW lines, between BORIVALI and GOREGAON station,” it shared on Twitter.
26-12-2021||Delhi||Delhi's air quality back to 'severe' category, AQI at 430||Delhi's air quality slipped to the 'severe' category with the city recording an overall air quality index (AQI) of 430 on Sunday morning, according to the System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting And Research (SAFAR).On Saturday, Delhi's air quality was recorded in the 'severe' category for the fifth consecutive day, according to the Central Pollution Control Board.An AQI between zero and 50 is considered 'good', 51 and 100 'satisfactory', 101 and 200 'moderate', 201 and 300 'poor', 301 and 400 'very poor, and 401 and 500 'severe'.The national capital has recorded 23 'severe' air quality days in this year so far. It recorded 11 such days in November, the highest in the month since the Central Pollution Control Board started maintaining air quality data in 2015.Also read | Rain, thunderstorms likely in several regions from today onwards. Details hereThe India Meteorological Department (IMD) has predicted a generally cloudy sky with light rain on Sunday. The weather department also said the maximum and minimum temperatures are expected to settle at 22 and 8 degrees Celsius, respectively, on Sunday.Delhi's minimum temperature settled at 7 degrees Celsius, a notch below normal, and the maximum was recorded at 23.6 degrees Celsius, two notches above the season's average, on Saturday.Also read | Minimum temperature in north India to rise amid intensified western disturbancesThe IMD has also predicted bad weather, induced by a fresh western disturbance and the accompanying cyclonic formation, in several parts of India from Sunday onwards.Light to fairly moderate widespread rainfall and snowfall is likely over the western Himalayan region—the Jammu division and Himachal Pradesh—from December 26-29, with isolated thunderstorms and lightning possible on Sunday, it has said.Isolated rainfall is also likely over multiple regions in western and northwestern India.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhis-air-quality-back-to-severe-category-aqi-at-430-101640484832604.html
26-12-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana sees fresh seven Covid cases||Among seven tested positive for Covid-19 in the district on Saturday, three were acquaintances of international travellers, as stated by district health department . The three contacts are extended family members of the four international travellers, who had arrived in the city from USA and Canada in the last 10 days. The travellers reside in Dugri, phase-1 area.The total count of positive cases in the district stands at 87,750, of which 39 are active cases ; 2,116 patients have succumbed and 85,595 patients have recovered. Civil surgeon Dr SP Singh said the samples of international travellers have already been sent for genome sequencing to find out if they are infected with the Omicron variant. As of now, no Omicron case has been reported in the district.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-sees-fresh-seven-covid-cases-101640472510418.html
26-12-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana | Farmers protest outside Mini Secretariat enters sixth day||It took neither blast in the court complex nor freezy weather for the farmers to call off their protest. Withstanding challenges, the farmers under the banner of Bhartiya Kisan Union (Ugrahan) continued their day-night protest against the state government outside the Mini Secretariat for the sixth consecutive day on Saturday. With court complex fortified after the blast, the farmers had shifted their protest outside the secretariat, but they have announced to continue the protest till December 30. Another meeting has been scheduled on December 30 to discuss the demand of debt waiver.Partly cloudy weather, mercury drops in Ludhiana
26-12-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana | Five booked for assaulting Punjab Roadways inspector||Nearly 15 days after an inspector of the Punjab Roadways was allegedly assaulted, the city police have registered a case against five persons and started an investigation. The incident occurred on December 10 when some miscreants thrashed a Punjab Roadways inspector who was checking a bus parked near the main gate of the Amar Shaheed Sukhdev Thapar Interstate Bus Terminal, Ludhiana. An FIR has been registered against five persons of which only one had been identified so far. The case was registered on the basis of inspector Hardev Singh’s statement. The accused has been identified as Sukhbir Singh of Rasheen village in Ludhiana, while four of his accomplices could not be identified yet. According to the complainant, due to the injuries, he was not in a condition to record his statement to the police. Hardev said he was deputed as an inspector with the Punjab Roadways and on December 10 when he was on duty, he saw the bus of a private operator parked near the main gate of the interstate bus terminal. “When I went to check the bus, the accused, Sukhbir, along with his four accomplices started assaulting me with a baseball bat,” he said. According to the police, Sukhbir looks after the operations of the bus for the company. ASI Sukhjinder Singh, investigating officer, said the accused was yet to be arrested and others would also be identified. A case under Sections 323, 341, 427 and 506 of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) was registered against the accused at the Division Number 5 police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-five-booked-for-assaulting-punjab-roadways-inspector-101640472449685.html
26-12-2021||Chandigarh||Ambala’s eligible population fully vaccinated||Days before the year comes to a close, Ambala has become the second district in Haryana, to have fully vaccinated its eligible population of 8,50,360 adults. The development comes just three days after Gurugram achieved the feat.Officials said a total of 9,10,378 (107 %) beneficiaries have received the first dose and 8,54,695 (100.5%) have been administered the second dose till Saturday 4 pm.Deputy commissioner Vikram said it’s a moment of pride for Ambala. The district had managed to fully inoculate half of its eligible population by September 14, just nine months after the vaccination drive started countrywide. In about 100 days after the feat, it covered rest of its eligible population. The achievement comes just days after the state government banned the entry of partially vaccinated residents into public places from January 1. How it managed the featCivil surgeon Dr Kuldeep Singh said that since the ‘Har Ghar Dastak’ (door-to-door) drive started on November 8, the staff has administered three lakh doses, covering mostly those residents who were due for their second dose.“We gave them doses after prayers at religious places, during festivals in markets and at parks during morning or evening walking hours. Mobile teams were stationed at crowded places like old cloth market, showrooms etc. Our female staff have even camped outside liquor vends to cover the target,” Dr Singh added.Ambala, the home constituency of health minister Anil Vij, has rarely faced a shortage of vaccines. Even if it did, extra vials were borrowed from neighbouring districts within hours, people familiar with the vaccination process said. Dr Sunidhi, the vaccination in-charge of Ambala, said, “In the age group of 18-44, we have covered 5,48,691 beneficiaries of the 5,46,660 eligible (100.37%), 1,83,110 of 1,82,220 (100.49%) in the age bracket of 45-59 years and in the group above 60 years, 1,22,480 persons have been fully vaccinated as against 1,21,480 (100.82%) of the eligible population.” In the past year, the health workers fighting on two fronts, the invisible virus and reaching out for vaccines, have faced it all -- laxity to take a dose, resistance in rural belts and finding the untraced beneficiaries for the second dose. Not only this, the vaccine staff was allegedly ‘boycotted’ by a few panchayats and faced stone-pelting by a group of vendors too.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ambalas-eligible-population-fully-vaccinated-101640472448340.html
26-12-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana police arrests two proclaimed offenders||Two proclaimed offenders, including an accused facing trial in a rape case, have been arrested by the proclaimed offender (PO) staff of Ludhiana police commissionerate on Saturday.The accused Sajan Sahota of Chawanni Mohalla, arrested following a tip off,.and Raj Kumar of Jodhewal.have been sent to judicial custody.Sub-inspector Balwinder Singh, in-charge, PO staff said, “Sahota was earlier booked by Division Number 8 police under Sections 379B (snatching with hurt) and 411( dishonestly receiving stolen property) of Indian Penal Code ( IPC) on May 26, 2018. This year on September 22, the court of JMIC Rajeev Kumar Garg declared him PO.”Meanwhile, Kumar, who was booked under the charges of 376 (commits rape) and 120B ( punishment of criminal conspiracy )of IPC by Daresi police on November 3, 2018 was declared PO by the court of JMIC Gaurav Kumar Sharma on September 24, 2021.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-police-arrests-two-proclaimed-offenders-101640472328336.html
26-12-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana blast: Delhi special cell team visits Court Complex||Despite courts and government offices being closed on Saturday, on account of Christmas, heavy police deployment was seen at the district court complex, two days after a bomb exploded within its premises. The Delhi special cell team also visited the district court complex in Ludhiana to investigate the crime scene in connection with the recent blast at the Rohini Court in Delhi. An improvised explosive device (IED), assembled in a steel tiffin box and kept inside a laptop bag, had exploded inside a Delhi courtroom on December 9. A team of the Central Reserve Police Force from Jammu had also visited the explosion site on December 24.The area surrounding the compound was cordoned off and no one was allowed to venture near the blast site.Though the court was closed, hectic activity was seen at the complex in the evening when two persons accused of drug peddling – Ranjit Singh Chita and Sukhwinder Singh – who had shared the barrack with the blast accused, Gagandeep Singh, were presented before court.Dongle found in wreckage It is learnt that a damaged dongle has been salvaged from the explosion site. Cops suspect that the accused, who was killed in the explosion, made 13 international web calls using the device.An official, requesting anonymity, said accused’s mobile was destroyed in the blast, but he had a dongle, which he was using to access the internet. Officials of the National Investigation Agency (NIA) and Punjab Police suspect that he had taken help from someone online to assemble, and activate the bomb. Advocate Jasbir Singh Bhogal, counsel to Gagandeep Singh, condemned the act of terror. “Gagandeep Singh should have kept faith in law. Setting an explosive in the court complex was a shameful act. No one in Gagandeep’s family had ever visited me. The police officer in-charge for Gagandeep should have kept a tab on his activities,” he said. “A high-level probe should be carried out in the matter as it is suspected that RDX was used in the explosion,” added Jasbir Singh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-blast-delhi-special-cell-team-visits-court-complex-101640472269270.html
26-12-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana | Malhar Road project misses Christmas deadline||It was hardly a merry Christmas for commuters with traffic moving at snail’s pace on Malhar Road on Saturday as labourers hammered away on the construction project, which has breezed past its December-25 deadline. The construction work coupled with diversions created by the municipal corporation meant that traffic snarls were the order of the day. With residents making a beeline for the church near the Sarabha Nagar market on Christmas day, and shoppers catching up with their Christmas and New Year’s eve shopping, the stretch was chock-a-block with vehicles. It did not help that construction work is also taking place on the Ferozepur Road and Pakhowal Road railway crossing, which has increased traffic on Malhar Road. Commuters had little choice but to take a detour through Model Town Extension and Malhar Road to enter Sarabha Nagar with the entry from Pakhowal Road Railway Crossing blocked due to the railway underbridge and overbridge projects. Residents exasperated With the MC blocking certain intersections and roads for re-carpeting, traffic chaos ensued. Gurkirat Singh, a resident of BRS Nagar, said, “Recently, the civic body had blocked the intersection near Welkom Palace. Road portions are blocked without intimating residents. Commuters have to take detours and a lot of time is wasted in traffic jams. Authorities should have made arrangements to streamline the flow of traffic on Christmas. Instead, the snarls were worse.” Residents demanded that the project be expedited as already two years have elapsed. The delay has also given fodder to the Opposition to take digs at the ruling Congress government. They have slammed the government for reducing the width of the Malhar Road, which is the busiest in the city. A local, Palwinder Singh, said, “All the ongoing projects have missed their deadlines, be it the Malhar Road, Pakhowal Road railway overbridge project or the Ferozepur elevated road project. Commuting is a nightmare, but authorities are not paying heed to the problem. Sometimes, at least 15 minutes are wasted standing in traffic on Malhar Road.” Shopkeepers a harried lotShopkeepers have also been facing a harrowing time due to the construction work as the regular traffic jams have hit business. They have been complaining of lack of parking space, pedestrian paths, and cycling tracks. A manager at one of the eateries on the stretch, Anil, said,”There was already a shortage of parking space, which has been further reduced due to construction work. We appreciate that the market is being transformed, but authorities must finish the project well in time. Project almost complete: MC commissioner MC commissioner Pardeep Sabharwal said that the project to transform Malhar road into a smart road was almost complete, and the road was being re-carpeted. Two-year delayThe project, which was initiated under the Smart City Mission in July 2019, has missed several deadlines. The project missed its May 2020 due to the coronavirus, and also bypassed the September 2020 deadline. After holding a meeting with officials on December 4, Cabinet minister Bharat Bhushan Ashu had set December 25 as the deadline for completing the project. However, officials could not meet the deadline, much to the chagrin of commuters.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-malhar-road-project-misses-christmas-deadline-101640472150565.html
26-12-2021||Chandigarh||Supervisor of private firm held for assault on Chandigarh MC officials||A supervisor of a private firm tasked with carpeting of the road dividing Sector 55 and 56 has been arrested for allegedly manhandling an executive engineer (XEN) and sub-divisional engineer (SDE) of the Chandigarh municipal corporation’s buildings and road (B&R) department. SDE Jagdeep Singh, in his complaint, alleged that Mahendra Singh Kalra, a supervisor with Bindra associates private limited, had misbehaved with him and XEN Ajay Kumar Garg when they had gone see the progress of the carpeting work on December 24. He alleged that Kalra also manhandled Garg. The SDE said that XEN Garg had asked Kalra for premix samples and petrol for testing purposes. Instead of providing it to the official, Kalra allegedly started manhandling and misbehaving with Garg. Kalra humiliated both government officials and even stopped them doing their duty which is matter of serious concern. The SDE alleged that Kalra even tore Garg’s clothes. Acting on his complaint, police has registered a case under Sections 332 (voluntarily causing hurt to public servant) and 353 (assault or criminal force to deter public servant from discharge of his duty) of the Indian Penal Code was registered at the Sector 39 police station. Kalra accuses MC employees of assaulting him After the case was registered against him, Kalra told police that the XEN and SDE, along with the employees of the MC, had attacked him. He alleged that Garg had slapped him multiple times and hit him in the stomach while Jagdeep tried to hit him with a shovel lying close by.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/supervisor-of-private-firm-held-for-assault-on-chandigarh-mc-officials-101640472148336.html
26-12-2021||Chandigarh||Wildbuzz | The leopard hush up||Come winter, poachers lay notorious clutch-wire traps along game trails to slaughter herbivores and leopards. However, the wildlife field staff, on certain occasions, tend to brush the poaching incident under the carpet by ascribing chain-link fencing or other accidental contingencies to leopards getting caught. The most recent case was of a male leopard found writhing in a clutch-wire trap in the Noorpur Bedi area of Roopnagar district on Wednesday. One end of the trap was tied to the chain-link fencing protecting a farmhouse. Though the leopard was rescued successfully by a tranquilliser gun team from Chhatbir zoo, the Roopnagar Wildlife Preservation Division DFO and Range Officer diverted attention by putting out a statement in the media the same day that the leopard had got trapped in chain-link fencing, omitting mention of the clutch-wire trap which had actually encircled the leopard around the waist. Not only this, the field staff failed to seize the wires and contraption used for the game trap from the spot. A species accorded the highest protection under Schedule I of the Wildlife (Protection) Act, 1972, the clutch-wire trap had warranted that the incident to be treated as one of attempted poaching and registration of a case. Instead, the incident was treated as a kind of natural mishap.This kind of an incident, of which several have taken place in the wider region over the years involving clutch-wire traps, would have been relegated to oblivion once again, thereby encouraging poachers. However, Punjab Chief Wildlife Warden RK Mishra got wind of the bungling at the ground level and he stepped in. “I saw the videos of the trapped leopard and also got feedback from my sources. I am convinced it indeed was a case of attempted poaching not merely an entanglement in chain-link fencing. I have directed the field officials to initiate an inquiry and not let the matter rest,” Mishra told this writer. Lynching a skink, raises no stink With understanding comes not just empathy but fond attachment. Ignorance promotes the very opposite, including recourse to thoughtless, murderous violence. My evening game at the Chandigarh Club’s squash court since May 2021 was, on occasion, disrupted by a little skink or legless lizard that householders label as ‘baamani’ or ‘saanp ki mausi’. We find them slithering about in our gardens and staging a furtive entry into the house.This skink at the squash court would be found lost in the court having wandered from hiding places in the crevices. The sound of the ball thumping the wall and tin base would terrify her no end as she vainly sought an escape from infernal din. Apprehensive of her safety, I would halt the game and chaperon her to outside the court where she would scamper into a crevice, only to surface after a few weeks right in the middle of the court, befuddled, and in danger of being squashed under shoes.As misfortune would have it, I came across my little friend on Thursday evening. She lay still, no din or looming giants (humans) would ever rouse her again. She had been bludgeoned to death by someone, apprehending her to be a venomous, snake-like reptile. Fact of the matter is skinks are a group of lizards, pure carnivores and gulp down or swallow prey (insects) just like house lizards. However, due to ignorance, slithering skinks are confused with venomous snakes and killed though they do not possess a bite toxic to humans. India is home to 62 species of skinks.The luckless skink lay woebegone and friendless, so lonely in a brutal end. It reminded me of the poor, hungry vagabond, who had been lynched and hacked to death by a mob at the Kapurthala gurdwara recently under the false incitement of sacrilege. I did not want my friend’s body to lie so bereft. It would also encourage people to kill such creatures. I bundled her into a fallen winter leaf and placed her outside in a quiet flower bed. RIP my dainty, innocent gal; forgive your murderers if you can, for they do not know what they do. vjswild1@gmail.com||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/wildbuzz-the-leopard-hush-up-101640471669075.html
26-12-2021||Chandigarh||In aftermath of Ludhiana blasts, Mohali ups vigil, all eateries to close by 11pm||Amid heightened security concerns following the blast at the Ludhiana court complex, Mohali police carried out searches of public places in the district on Saturday. Police teams, with dog squad and anti-sabotage team, carried out searches in markets, restaurants, malls and under-construction buildings on Saturday. Police parties conducted checks at Zirakpur, Mohali as well as Kharar that are emerging as night-party spots in the district. It may be mentioned that Chandigarh police is already enforcing the orders issued by district magistrate wherein no club, eatery or restaurant is allowed to remain open after midnight. Of late, a trend has been noticed where party-goers shift to Zirakpur and Mohali. “Most party goers shift to Mohali after Chandigarh’s commercial activity closes. To check this practice, the administration has decided to close down eateries at 11 pm,” shared a senior official in Mohali administration. “The checking of public spaces will continue in future as well to ensure safety of residents in wake of the festive season,” added the senior official in Mohali administration. “The vigil has been increased to ensure that no untoward incident takes place in the district,” said senior superintendent of police, Mohali, Navjot Singh Mahal. He added that all restaurants, eating joints have been asked to close by 11 pm so that revellers do not create nuisance in the district.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/in-aftermath-of-ludhiana-blasts-mohali-ups-vigil-all-eateries-to-close-by-11pm-101640471428688.html
26-12-2021||Chandigarh||Guest Column | Now, 60 is indeed the new 40||The new-age adage ‘60 is the new 40’ has rapidly gained popularity, so when a friend parroted the elliptical comment, I decided to scratch below its surface.If one were to paraphrase the adage it means a 60-year-old person in the present times is at par, in terms of energy and passion, with their 40-year-old counterpart in the olden days. It also implies that people now appear much younger than their biological age. This is because youthfulness is prolonged with the help of medical advancements, internet-enabled seamless flow of information, cosmetics, salons and spas. Indeed, one could not guess that my retired colleagues have crossed 60 years of age. Not only do the elderly look younger, the easy flow of information and the internet have also given them the perspective of a youngster, thereby bridging the generation gap. In sync with the times, one would be hard pressed to find a truly old fashioned person. Earlier, the older generation, comprising our parents and grandparents, used to be wary of new trends and distrustful of the latest technologies. Our parents did not splurge as much on their clothes and tresses. Our grandparents were even more frugal. Not any more. Nowadays, a 60-year-old person is as trendy and fashionable as a young adult. Salons and spas have sprung up in every nook and corner, and older people can be seen getting facials and dying their hair to get a face lift. No longer does cataract blur the vision of the old, as medical procedures keep their eyes keen,no longer do older people haunch over canes, they simply get a new pair of knees, and sophisticated dentistry keeps them smiling brightly. Information Technology has certainly been a great equaliser. The internet has levelled the playing field, where merely being younger yields no advantage. Information is available to one and all on equal footing. Social media has also diluted the age gap to some extent. An age gap of 15 years in adults is insignificant. The age brackets of 20-35, 30-45, 40-55 are essentially the same. A 45-yera-old mother looks almost as youthful as her 20-year-old daughter, and a 20-year age gap is no impediment to friendship, as everyone is on the same wavelength. A person of 50 exudes the same energy, same keenness, same confidence as a 30-year-old. I can tell from my own experience that I bond well with persons even two decades younger to me, provided they are somewhat like-minded. To top it all, a curiosity to learn, keenness to travel, passion to pursue hobbies, and uninhibited approach to fun, keep the heart young forever. chander59@icloud.com ( The writer is a Panchkula-based freelance contributor)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/guest-column-now-60-is-indeed-the-new-40-101640471308626.html
26-12-2021||Chandigarh||Guest Column | Walking the tight rope of keeping students online, in-line||‘Am I audible’, ‘Turn your camera on’, ‘Please mute yourselves’ ‘Who’s there?’ are just a few of the phrases that teachers find themselves repeating a handful times each day in the new normal, where a computer screen separates them from their pupils. The virtual interactions between teachers and students are far from perfect, though we maintain the farce of ‘everything being alright.’ The other day when my friend’s son was attending his online class, he was asked a simple question related to wildlife, which I felt was apt as per his age and grade. However, rather than confidently answering the question, he crumbled and simply turned off the mike and camera. To my utter surprise, he had a Plan B, and later simply told the teacher that the internet connection had been cut off.This is just the surface of the problems, not only are teachers confronted with fibs such as the one told by my friend’s son, but also flabbergasting, impertinent and cheesy comments. The pandemic has given the students a convenient excuse to slink out of an uncomfortable situation, rather than facing it head-on. Students are turning hostile due to improper redressal and problem solving. It certainly is an alarming situation to see the future of the country turning tail at the slightest challenge.Cheating and copying have become an integral component of our novel education transmission system. The role of the parents is also changing from that of enforcers to defenders. Dashing into the online classrooms, sneaking out after giving them a clue in the exams and getting into unnecessary debates with teachers has become far too common. This is unfortunate as the whole concept of learning and education revolves around character building. As Swami Vivekananda, rightly said, “Education is the manifestation of perfection already in the man.” Thus, a teacher’s job is only to polish the deep rooted credentials. Our character is what we do when we think no one is watching, and online classes are best examples of character manifestations. The missing ingredient in our current education system is inculcation of moral values, irrespective of any strata – primary or secondary. This void has shown its true colours in the non-personal contact mode of content delivery. The greatest fear is that misconduct traverses into delinquency in no time and is catalysed by the irresponsible attitude of parents and ignorant behaviour of some tutors. Appropriate social behaviour and etiquettes are not desirable features, but essential requirements to sustain and progress. Time is ripe, to act together and ensure that in any system of education delivery; students, our prospective nation builders, stay in line!(The writer is an associate professor at Guru Angad Dev Veterinary and Animal Sciences University, Ludhiana)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/guest-column-walking-the-tight-rope-of-keeping-students-online-inline-101640471008433.html
26-12-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh tricity area logs 36 new Covid cases, highest in five months||With 36 new Covid cases, tricity recorded its five-month high of single-day cases on Saturday, adding to fresh worries in the festive season. However, no fatality was reported on the day. The tricity had last seen over 30 cases in July. Of the total 36 cases, Mohali contributed the maximum, 17, cases which was also the district’s highest daily tally since July. Chandigarh had 10 cases while Panchkula had nine new infections on the day. For the past 21 days, the tricity has been consistently logging cases in double-digits. On Friday, it had reported 18 cases. In Mohali, 16 cases were reported from Mohali (urban), while one surfaced in Kharar. Chandigarh’s infections were reported from Sectors 19, 29, 32, 37, 40, 45 and 48.BSF camp in Mohali reports 15 cases, declared containment zoneOf the 17 positive cases reported in Mohali on Saturday, 15 are BSF jawans from BSF Lakhanur campus. “We have converted the campus into a containment zone. Health authorities will be collecting samples of all people on campus,” said Mohali deputy commissioner Isha Kalia. Mohali civil surgeon Adarsh Pal Kaur, said, “Majority of the cases are from a single campus, which caused the spike. We will be sending the samples for genome testing as well.” At 215, tricity’s active cases also highest since JulyWith the fresh infection tally increasing in tricity, the active case count also climbed to 215 on Saturday, against 195 on Friday. The active case count is also highest since July 11 when it stood at 210. As many as 105 patients are still infected in Chandigarh, 58 in Mohali, and 52 in Panchkula. Even the daily positivity count increased on Saturday as Mohali and Chandigarh’s positivity rate crossed 1%.‘Crowded gatherings inviting surge’“In December, events like marriages, parties and international tourism increase. Also in Chandigarh, we had election rallies this month. The crowded gatherings, where Covid-appropriate behaviour went for a toss, are now causing a surge in cases. But, it’s not too late to avert the third wave. People must follow basic rules like wearing a mask, maintaining social distance and getting vaccinated against the disease as it will control the transmission,” said Dr Suman Singh, director, health services, Chandigarh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-tricity-area-logs-36-new-covid-cases-highest-in-five-months-101640470768328.html
26-12-2021||Chandigarh||Guest Column | Here’s to 2022, the year of hope||The United Nations has declared the new year as the international year of artisanal fisheries and aquaculture, but truly 2022 should be celebrated as the year of hope, after two years of Covid-induced travails. In the new year, all nations will continue their unrelenting fight against that invisible and almost invincible enemy, the coronavirus, and the numerous variants it has spawned. With only 46% of the global population fully inoculated against Covid, the battle is far from won. Till around 80% of the world is fully inoculated, we are not safe. Convincing the non-believers, the anti-vaxxers, will be the biggest hurdle to surmount in the new year. At the same time, developed countries must also help developing countries who have merely inoculated 3-4% of their populations. The political tug of war On the global political stage, US president Joe Biden will continue to remain the pivotal global leader. Despite the temporary hiccups his party is facing, he will stand tall. Meanwhile, President Vladimir Putin will plough a lonely furrow, needling Ukraine needlessly. Putin’s people love him, his dolls sell on the streets of Moscow.The real conflict will be through the translucent ‘bamboo curtain’ between the USA and China. China will continue its aggrandisements, especially in Asia and Africa, by funding infrastructure project, peeving America with its expansionist policies. However, the Chinese have fat wallets,and they will continue to spend. UK Prime Minister Boris Johnson will continue to obfuscate his people, but will thrive. The new German leadership may struggle, without Angela Merkel as the chancellor. Polls will be fought in India, while Afghanistan will struggle to find money. Hopefully, there will be no wars. We need to fight hunger and poverty, which have augmented of the last two years. Economic disparitiesThe IMF has predicted a growth rate of 4.9% in 2022. With Covid variants harassing the world, its effects remain to be seen on the global economy. While the US economy could grow around 3%, China with its zero-Covid policy could grow by around 5%. Overall, the global economy could suffer a setback of around 3%. Developing countries will continue to lag. Economic disparities are sure to widen. As per Oxfam, the richest 1% of the world’s population has more than twice the wealth with 6.9 billion people. Around 811 million people sleep hungry every night and 2 billion people suffer from malnutrition. The agony and poverty suffered by citizens, cannot be gleaned through digits. People have lost faith, family members, homes, livelihoods, savings, during the last two years. Migrant labourers who fled to their countries are yet to return. The world needs at least three years to shave of the ghosts of the coronavirus. Real estate prices will remain low. The stock markets will oscillate anxiously, depending on new mutants of the coronavirus. Gold prices will hover around USD 1,875 to 1,900 per ounce, though its future is uncertain. Oil prices will dance, but hold steady at around USD 60 to 70 per barrel. Inflation will give the world sleepless nights. Expect to pay more for food in 2022. Climate change will dominate conclaves, with scarce action, while Greta Thunberg will fume. International travel may lubricate the global economy, with quarantines and Covid-passes. Nations should undertake rigorous reviews of their health resources. People across the world have died waiting for hospital beds, medicines, vaccines, and oxygen.Priority should be given to establishing hospitals, beds, ICUs, medical colleges, and nursing institutes. Global growth is meaningless for the 124 million people punched below the poverty line of 2 USD per day, during the pandemic. 2022 should be the year of humane economics, where the poor override polemics. Football and James BondThe world will relish the FIFA football matches in Qatar. However, Latino fans will have to forego their beers, shorts, and spaghetti strap dresses. Qatar frowns on alcohol and revealing apparel. The new hunger for medals in developing countries, will find satiation at the Commonwealth Games. Novak Djokovic will break new records. India will re-seek cricketing glory at ICC championship.The world will be hunting for a new James Bond, since Daniel Craig has bowed out. Cinema famished fans, will troop into theatres.Hope in 2022 depends on conquering Covid, mending fences between America and China, managing climate change, spurring economic growth and reducing disparities. Hopefully, leaders will listen.My soulmate, Patricia and I, hope for a Corona free world. Then, we can go for long walks among the pine forests in the mountains. We are happy with the cold air, silences and white clouds around us. It has been a long time since Patricia and I held hands and walked endlessly, as soft, white, snowflakes waft down. It is heavenly.rkaneja@anejamanagement.com(The author is a Mumbai-based freelance writer)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/guest-column-here-s-to-2022-the-year-of-hope-101640470231689.html
26-12-2021||Chandigarh||Temperature falls again in Kashmir, residents brace for snow spell; Leh shivers at -10.2°C||The minimum temperatures in Kashmir have again started to fall further with four of the seven weather stations recording sub-zero night temperatures as the skies partially cleared on Saturday following two days of isolated light snowfall and rains in the mountains.The meteorological department of J&K said that the mercury plunged lowest in ski resort of Gulmarg to settle at -6.5 °C on the intervening night of Friday and Saturday down from -5.1 °C on the night earlier.The department in a weather update said that the ski resort recorded 8.9 cm of snow in the 24 hours ending 8.30 am on Saturday.The summer capital Srinagar recorded 1.7 °C down from 2.4 °C on Friday night. The mercury had climbed above zero in Srinagar on Thursday for the first time after December 6. During this period, the mercury had plunged to the lowest of -6.0 °C in Srinagar.Chilai Kalan, Kashmir’s harshest over 40-day winter period, started on December 21 with western disturbance hitting the region and bringing light snowfall in Gulmarg, Tangmarg, Gurez and Sonamarg mountainous areas on December 23 and 24. The western disturbance is a weather system or winds blowing from the Mediterranean which brings most of the precipitation in Kashmir.In the mountain resort of Pahalgam in south Kashmir, the mercury plunged to -5.1 °C during the night down from previous night’s -1.3 °C.It was -0.5 °C in Konibal, -0.8°C in Kupwara, and 2.2°C in Qazigund.Jammu’s Bhaderwah recorded a minimum night temperature of -0.2 °C. In the union territory of Ladakh, Dras recorded lowest of -17.5°C while it was -10.2°C in Leh during the night.The director, meteorological department of J&K and Ladakh, Sonam Lotus said another snow spell of greater intensity is most likely during December 26-28.“Another snow spell is likely during December 26 -28. Due to this, light snowfall (up to 1 inch) in plains of Kashmir, moderate (5-6 inch) over higher reaches of J&K, Zojila-Minamarg axis, and light snowfall at scattered places of Ladakh, especially Kargil-Zanskar area, and light rain is likely at scattered places of Jammu region during the above period, especially on December 27,” Lotus said.“However, heavy snowfall of up to 1 ft can’t be ruled out at isolated places over the higher reaches of J&K,” he cautioned.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/temperature-falls-again-in-kashmir-residents-brace-for-snow-spell-leh-shivers-at-102c-101640469989917.html
26-12-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh MC polls: All eyes on December 27 for counting of votes||The counting of votes will start at 9 am on December 27, and the results will be out by 1 pm.The state election commission has designated nine counting centres: Government Home Science College, Sector 10, for ward 1 to 4, Chandigarh College of Engineering and Technology, Sector 26 (ward 5 to 8), Government Senior Secondary School, Sector 18 (ward 9 to 12), Post Graduate College, Sector 11 (ward 13 to 16), Government College for Education (ward 17 to 20), Chandigarh Institute of Hotel Management, Sector 42 (ward 21 to 24), Post Graduate College for Girls, Sector 42 (25 to 28), Government College of Commerce and Business Administration, Sector 50 (ward 29 to 32), and Post Graduate College, Sector 46 (ward 33 to 35).In all these counting centres, the counting will be undertaken ward-wise.The election commission also deputed nine counting observers for each of the nine counting centres.“Officials will start opening the EVM strongrooms from 7.30 am so that counting can start by 9 am. The results will be updated on the screen installed outside the counting centres as well as on the commission mobile app,” said a commission’s spokesperson.Over 60.7% of the city’s 6,33,475 lakh voters sealed the fate of 203 candidates on Friday, as voting for the Chandigarh municipal corporation elections concluded peacefully.The voter turnout was highest in the past six elections since 1996, although only marginally higher than the last MC elections in 2016, when it was 59.5%. In the 2011 elections too, the voting percentage hovered around 59%.A total of 212 polling stations were set up in different parts of the city. Among the 694 booths, 220 were declared sensitive. In view of the Covid-19 pandemic, a higher number of polling booths were set up.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-mc-polls-all-eyes-on-december-27-for-counting-of-votes-101640469748306.html
26-12-2021||Chandigarh||Jammu and Kashmir logs 164 Covid infections, two deaths; Srinagar reports highest cases||Jammu and Kashmir reported 164 fresh Covid-19 infections and two deaths on Saturday, an official health bulletin said. Of the total cases, 124 cases and two deaths were reported in Kashmir valley while the Jammu division saw 40 infections. The union territory reported highest 51 cases in summer capital Srinagar followed by 29 cases in Baramulla and 19 in Jammu.Srinagar district has the highest number of active cases at 475 followed by Jammu and Baramulla districts with 175 and 229 active cases respectively.The number of patients who were cured in the UT was 124 with active positive cases reaching 1,355.The government’s daily health bulletin also said that 68,900 vaccine doses were administered taking overall doses administered in the UT to 1.793 crores.The overall number of people who have recovered reached 3,34,722 prompting the recovery rate to reach 98.29%. Since the pandemic started, the overall cases in J&K have reached 3,40,598 and the death toll has reached 4,521.The officials said that 54,120 tests were conducted in the past 24 hours in the UT.The Jammu district has the highest number of 1,156 fatalities followed by Srinagar with 881 deaths. Covid trackerTotal cases: 3,40,598Total recovered patients: 3,34,722Total Deaths: 4521Active Cases: 1355||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/jammu-and-kashmir-logs-164-covid-infections-two-deaths-srinagar-reports-highest-cases-101640469568652.html
26-12-2021||Chandigarh||Seeking tribal status, Himachal’s Hatti community holds ‘khumblis’ in Sirmaur||The central Hatti committee held “Khumblis” in the Trans-Giri region of Sirmaur on Saturday. The committee has units in village panchayats and all tehsils. The Hatti community passed a resolution demanding the Prime Minister to grant Scheduled Tribe status to the community on par with those living in the tribal Jaunsar–Bawar in neighbouring Uttarakhand. The Jaunsar-Bawar region of Uttarakhand was granted tribal status in 1967. Jaunsar-Bawar and the Hatti dominated the regions, both were part of the erstwhile Sirmaur state. The people of the Trans-Giri area of Sirmaur district have been demanding tribal status on the pattern of the Jaunsar-Bawar area of Uttarakhand for the last 54 years. The Trans-Giri and Jaunsar-Bawar area were part of erstwhile Sirmaur princely state and both have unique similarities in all aspects. The Hatti community had for long been demanding tribal status, but to no avail.The Hatti community in Himachal Pradesh have warned the state government that it will hold agitation if the Central government does not meet its demand for granting tribal status to 144 panchayats in the remote region of the backward Sirmaur district. The community held the “Khumblis”, the congregations, in all 144 panchayats to press for their demand. “We are demanding tribal status for the Trans-Giri region for the last five decades. Our traditional lifestyles and topography are similar to that of Jaunsar- Bawar. The government should consider it seriously or else the community will be forced to resort to agitation,” said Ami Chand Kamal, 65, a retired professor of political science who heads the central Hatti committee. “I have corresponded with the Prime Minister’s office numerous times. The government is taking too long to fulfil our demands,” he said. The dominant Hatti community is spread in four assembly segments of Sirmaur district -- Paonta Sahib, Renuka, Shillai and Pacchad. It comprises about 2.76 lakh people.“The resolutions passed in the Khumblis will be sent to the Prime Minister’s office and the registrar general of India’s office through the state government,” Kamal said. Chief minister Jai Ram Thakur himself had raised the demand with Union home minister Amit Shah. Defence minister Rajnath Singh, who was BJP’s national president in 2014, had announced to grant Schedule Tribe status to the Hatti community in a political rally in Nahan.“The issue is not related only to granting tribal status but there is growing concern about the future of our children. There is backwardness and job avenues are few,” said Balbir Singh Chauhan of Kuhnt village in the Shillai assembly segment.The representatives of the Hatti community made repeated representations to the Central government. The state government had submitted its recommendations to the Union ministry of tribal affairs in August 2016 on the basis of a study conducted by the Tribal Affairs Institute, Shimla. In 2016, the state government headed by then chief minister Virbhadra Singh moved a case to the Centre for granting tribal status to the Trans-Giri region, Dodra Kwar in Rohru. In 2018, the ministry of tribal affairs wrote back to the state government saying that details provided in the ethnography report about the Hatti community were not “sufficient”. The government had written to the state to re-examine the proposal for the inclusion of the Hatti community in the list of Scheduled Tribes and had further recommended the government to conduct a full-fledged ethnographic study.
26-12-2021||Chandigarh||Congress hits out at Jai Ram Thakur over Mandi event||The opposition Congress on Saturday flayed chief minister Jai Ram Thakur over the government’s preparation to meet the threat of Omicron variant of Covid-19.“At the time when governments of other states are imposing night curfew to contain the spread of the Omicron variant, the BJP government is holding mega celebrations in Mandi to mark its four years’ rule. The event will pose life risk to scores of people who would gather for the Prime Minister’s rally,” said state party chief Kuldeep Singh Rathore while addressing the media in Shimla. He said his party will submit a memorandum to the governor to condemn BJP’s four-year regime.He claimed that the state’s finances were in the red, while the government was extravagantly spending on government functions. He said the government has erected big banners and billboards on the roadside in the state.Rathore claimed that the government has issued directions to the district administration and officials to ensure that Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s rally scheduled for December 27 is well attended. Rathore alleged that the government has raised a ₹1,000 crore loan to celebrate its four years’ regime in Himachal. “We are not opposed to Prime Minister’s visit, but against the unnecessary spending,” he said, adding that the state’s debt burden has exceeded ₹65,000 crore.He said the Congress was preparing a charge-sheet to highlight the “misdeeds” of the state government.“The party will come out with a charge-sheet after six months. All the charges will be substantiated with facts,” Rathore also underplayed factional war in the party. Eight legislators owing allegiance to Naduan legislator Sukhwinder Singh Sukhu had recently met the AICC in-charge of party affairs, Rajiv Shukla, in New Delhi demanding a change of guard in the organisation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/congress-hits-out-at-jai-ram-thakur-over-mandi-event-101640469513391.html
26-12-2021||Chandigarh||On Atal Bihari Vajpayee’s birth anniv, Jai Ram Thakur unveils his statue in Manali||On the occasion of the 97th birth anniversary of former Prime Minister Atal Bihari Vajpayee, chief minister Jai Ram Thakur unveiled the statue of the former Prime Minister at the Mall Road, Manali, in Kullu district on Saturday. Later, the chief minister addressed a public meeting at Prini, Vajpayee’s village, and said the people of Kullu district in particular and people of the state, in general, were fortunate that Vajpayee had special love and benevolence for the state and its people. He said despite his busy schedule as Prime Minister, Vajpayee visited Prini every year. He said for a few days the entire government used to function from this small village. He said due to the special benevolence of the Prime Minister, the state got liberal assistance from the Centre. Jai Ram Thakur said even Vajpayee’s political opponents would come to listen to his speeches and loved his art of oratory. He said the Atal Tunnel was the vision of the former Prime Minister which has virtually transformed the economy of the tribal district of Lahaul-Spiti and which was strategically important. He said this vision of the former Prime Minister was converted into reality by Prime Minister Narendra Modi when he dedicated this tunnel to the nation on October 3, 2020. The chief minister said this tunnel has opened a new vista of development in Lahaul and Spiti district. He said the day was celebrated as ‘Sushasan Divas’, adding that several schemes of the state government had been named after Vajpayee as a mark of respect to the former Prime Minister. He said the state government would provide all possible help to further promote the Atal Gyan Kendra scheme as this would be a befitting tribute to the former Prime Minister. Jai Ram Thakur said the present state government was completing four years of its present term on the 27th of this month and the Prime Minister was gracing the occasion by addressing a massive gathering at the historic Paddal Ground, Mandi. He also urged people to attend the mega event as the Prime Minister would be inaugurating and laying foundation stones of projects worth ₹11,281 crore for the people of the state. Thakur also paid floral tributes to Vajpayee. He announced ₹20 lakh for the construction of a community centre at Prini village, ₹10 lakh for the construction of Janjghar in Prini. He also announced ₹2 lakh for the local yuvak mandal for the purchase of cricket and volleyball kits from his discretionary fund.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/on-atal-bihari-vajpayee-s-birth-anniv-jai-ram-thakur-unveils-his-statue-in-manali-101640469511068.html
26-12-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh gets into action for Swachh Survekshan 2022||From a dedicated project management team to creating an “atmanirbhar” ward to bringing in behavioural change regarding sanitation, the Chandigarh municipal corporation (MC) has started implementing a comprehensive plan to ensure a major turnaround for the city in the Swachh Survekshan 2022 (SS22). In the Swachh Survekshan 2021, Chandigarh’s rank dropped from 8 to 16 among 48 cities with population above 10 lakhs, and overall, it stood at a lowly 66th rank in the country. Its score also dipped from 83% to 71%. The issue went on to become a major issue in the MC election, with parties indulging in blame game over the city’s poor show in rankings. Changing its strategy from the past years, the MC is now working to improve the city’s performance on all the 150-odd parameters in the survey. “The thrust areas of the plan are to give a major uplift to ground-level garbage management infrastructure, make citizens active participants in the city’s sanitation and create an institutional setup, within the MC, dedicated to issues related to the Swachh Survekshan,” said MC commissioner Anindita Mitra. The SS22 will be undertaken for the period April 2021 to March 2022. Actionable points have to be done by December 31. The deadline for completion of the documentation is January 31. The Survekshan will be done after February 15 when onsite survey will be done by the Centre’s independent teams. Under the survey, cities’ performance is assessed on 150 parameters, in six segments. Notably, in a meeting last month, UT adviser Dharam Pal had fixed responsibility of different UT department regarding Survekshan. Dedicated team The MC has created a project management team, drawing people with the desired skill-set from the MC and Chandigarh Smart City Ltd. “Our field teams of engineering department and medical officer of health (MOH) are the implementing agencies and are accountable for successful execution of different works. We cannot expect them to create awareness among the people or do the Swachh Survekshan related documentation. For that, we needed a dedicated team. So, we created a project management team,” said Mitra. Every member of the team has been given a set of parameters and topics on which they have to monitor the performance of departments on a daily basis. So, parameters like door-to-door garbage collection, segregation and public engagement have been given to different members of the team to monitor and report on. They will also undertake gap analysis to point out the lacunas in the implementation process. The team is also responsible for public engagement on every parameter. An important component of the Survekshan is documentation. In previous years, many of the mandatory documents were not even submitted to the central Survekshan team by the MC. “We are taking this very seriously this time, and PMT members have been made responsible for documentation regarding each parameter,” said Mitra. Improving ground-level infrastructure An “Atmanirbhar” ward is being created in ward 20 (old ward) to ensure that all the wet waste is being processed within the ward. For this, bulk waste generators are undertaking onsite wet waste processing. “There are seven schools here. We are organising competition among them, for best onsite composting. They are completing their capacity building. In Sanjay Colony and Colony 4, we are giving them home composting buckets. This is being done under CSR (corporate social responsibility). Religious organisations in the ward have also agreed to compost wet waste like flowers,” said Mitra. The MC has also revived the bio-methane plant, which was lying defunct for more than two years, to process the wet waste in the ward. For segregation, the two-bin MC door-to-door garbage vehicles are being converted into four-bin. In addition to dry, wet and hazardous waste, the MC will also collect sanitary waste in these vehicles now. The MC also launched 80 additional garbage collection vehicles covering the entire city. Major push on people’s involvement The MC is organising a number of programmes and competitions to create awareness among citizens. With themes related to garbage management, MC is holding poster competition, jingle competition, mural competition and street play competition in Maloya. To encourage home composting, the MC is organising a competition among residents’ welfare associations. “It is to identify who are already skilled in-home composting. The winning entry will get ₹1 lakh prize,” said Mitra. Swachh Innovative Technology Challenge has been started for engineering colleges and technocrat for creating innovative ideas for garbage management and processing. In collaboration with an NGO Green Dream Foundation, mural will be created at four sites where “Swachhta ki Kahani” will be created by December-end. Angadwadi workers are being tapped in to create awareness people to segregate sanitary waste. 
26-12-2021||Chandigarh||‘People trust SAD for a proven track record of development’: Sukhbir Singh Badal||SAD(B) president Sukhbir Singh Badal speaks to Ramesh Vinayak on a range of issues ahead of the Punjab assembly polls due early next year. Edited excerpts:What is your reading of the electoral landscape in Punjab?People want a stable, strong government and a decisive chief minister. The CM face is going to make a lot of difference. A right choice can take the state forward and a wrong one will push it backwards as it happened in the last five years. So, the Congress is completely out. The people of Punjab don’t trust (AAP chief Arvind) Kejriwal. Half of his 20 MLAs have left him. Others also want to follow suit, but there are no takers. In 2017, people had put some faith in him, but they now feel disappointed. The AAP has since been dipping. Today, Kejriwal comes and goes, hardly anyone in Punjab cares. Last time (in 2017), his rallies used to draw a big gathering but now they are marriage palace affairs. People still trust the Shiromani Akali Dal because we are the only Punjab party with a proven track record of development, be it power plants, airports, roads, urban infrastructure or social welfare.The Punjab assembly contest is shaping up as a four-way fight. Who do you see as your main challenger?It appears a multi-cornered only from an academician’s perspective. In reality, it is not. On a majority of the seats – I will say, 110 out of 117 – the SAD and the Congress will fight for pole position. On some, it would be the SAD versus the AAP.How serious is the setback of an FIR against senior leader Bikram Singh Majithia in a drug case?There is no setback. The Congress government in 2002 had put a false case against my father and me, too. Yet, people voted us to power in 2007 because they knew it was vendetta. In Bikram’s case, I have never seen a more false FIR that can ever be registered. Three director generals of police (DGPs) were changed because they were not ready to file an FIR. Three chiefs of Bureau of Investigation were shifted because they gave in writing that it is a false case. Then, they brought in Siddharth Chattopadhyaya who has been rejected by the UPSC for the DGP post. He agreed to do his political master’s bidding only to become the DGP. There is no credibility. The case in which Bikram has been framed has been settled by the court five years ago. Neither was he made an accused nor did his name come up in the trial.But, these arguments centered on the political vendetta allegation didn’t find favour with the Mohali court which denied him anticipatory bail?I don’t want to comment on the local court. We have full faith in the judiciary. Remember what happened in the case of Shah Rukh Khan’s son who was implicated in a false case. He got relief from the higher court. We will fight the judicial battle and use all our legal options.How has Charanjit Singh Channi’s elevation as the state’s first Dalit CM impacted the SAD’s alliance with the Bahujan Samaj Party?Punjab’s SC (Scheduled Caste) samaj does not consider Channi a part of them because he never stood for them when he was minister in the Capt Amarinder Singh-led Congress government. He never raised his voice when SC students were denied scholarships for five years. An individual doesn’t represent a community. If I’m a Jat Sikh, that doesn’t mean all Jat Sikhs will vote for me.How do you look at the alliance between Capt Amarinder Singh and the BJP?Zero plus zero is equal to zero. People of Punjab don’t like the BJP. Captain is a lost case. He was removed for being an incompetent CM. How can he now ask for another five years? Punjab is a highly aware state.How do you look at the 22 farm unions’ decision to contest the Punjab polls? Will this impact the SAD’s base in the peasantry?Everyone has the right to test waters. So they are most welcome. It won’t impact us. Our cadres had supported the kisan morcha for a cause, not farm unions.What if the unions forge an alliance with the AAP?Then they will be seen to be backing out from their stand to stay away from political parties.
26-12-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh MC elections: Sec 33-B RWA complains of poor facilities at polling station||A day after the municipal corporation (MC) elections, the Residents’ Welfare Association (RWA) of Sector 33-B has written to the chief electoral officer, highlighting the poor facilities for senior citizens at the polling station at Government Model Senior Secondary School in Sector 33-D. General secretary of the RWA, Kuljinder Sra, said, “Our sector has a large number of retired veterans and senior citizens, many of who required wheelchairs to cast their votes. But, the wheelchair available at the centre was improper. It was a normal chair with a table which had been modified and fitted with wheels which were also not working properly. Seniors were forced to bring wheelchairs from their own home .” There were also complaints from other polling stations regarding inadequate facilities for seniors and differently-abled people.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-mc-elections-sec-33-b-rwa-complains-of-poor-facilities-at-polling-station-101640465607800.html
26-12-2021||Chandigarh||PU Teachers’ Association seeks deferment of senate meeting on January 8||The Panjab University Teachers Association (PUTA) has demanded that the senate meeting scheduled on January 8 be deferred till the complete senate is in place.In a letter to the Vice-President of India, who is the chancellor of PU, the teachers’ body has also demanded that a fresh notification be issued which will include all elected members of the senate. They have sought that instructions be issued to PU vice-chancellor Raj Kumar to defer the meeting.The development comes a day after PU issued a senate meeting notice, even though the elected members from two constituencies are yet to be notified. As many as 71 members have been notified to the PU senate by the chancellor so far. However, the elected members from the constituency of faculties and the teachers of affiliated arts colleges have not been notified yet.After the senate meeting notice was issued, the PUTA executive held a meeting on Saturday, in which they opposed the varsity’s move to hold the senate meeting. The teachers’ body in their letter stated, “This has happened for the first time in the history of the varsity, that in violation of the Panjab University Act, 1947, multiple notifications have been issued excluding certain members who were duly elected in the election process conducted by the PU authorities.” The letter also states that PUTA strongly condemns the issuance of the notification on December 20, 2021, by the Vice-President secretariat, arbitrarily omitting the names of 14 duly elected fellows.PUTA continues protest over UGC pay scalesContinuing with the demand for immediate implementation of the revised UGC pay scales as per the seventh pay commission by the Punjab government, Panjab University Teachers Association (PUTA) on Saturday held a dharna at the varsity campus as part of the statewide protest by teachers.The university and college teachers in Punjab and Chandigarh had started an indefinite protest from December 1 to press for their demands. While decrying the casual approach of the Punjab government to fulfil genuine demands of teachers, PUTA president, Mritunjay Kumar, said, “The government should not run away from their duty and notify revised UGC pay scales at the earliest, particularly when the same has been implemented in all other states except Punjab.”“Due to non-implementation of revised UGC pay scales by Punjab, the same could not be implemented in Chandigarh and Himachal Pradesh,” he said, while appealing to the chief minister to adopt the UGC pay scales in toto without any further delay and save the higher education system of the region from further deterioration.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/pu-teachers-association-seeks-deferment-of-senate-meeting-on-january-8-101640465427802.html
26-12-2021||Chandigarh||Christmas celebrated in Chandigarh with festive fervour||Christmas was celebrated with festive fervour in Chandigarh, as people gathered in large numbers at churches across the city.The Sector 19 Christ the King Cathedral decided to do away with lunch, and after a sermon in English and Hindi in the morning, people paid their respects to the nativity scene outside the church. Bishop Ignatius Mascarenhas of the Roman Catholic Church, Simla and Chandigarh Diocese, said, “Last year, we held a relatively small nativity scene with the manger which depicts the birth of Jesus Christ. However, it was made on a larger scale this year.” Trays were placed along the church for people to light candles and place there, while visitors were treated to tea and cake.In his sermon, the bishop spoke about how Jesus Christ was also born in difficult circumstances, and amid the anxiety surrounding the emerging omicron variant, he said God will be with those who feel alone or are suffering.At the Christ Church of North India, a fellowship lunch was held for the congregation and around 1,500 people prayed here. Stephan Masih, who is a member of the pastorate committee here, said, “There was caroling in the morning and many people came to wish each other and exchange gifts. A fellowship lunch was also organised while following Covid guidelines.” The sermon here was delivered by reverend Denzal Peoples.The Christmas spirit was visible outside all churches of the tricity, which were decorated and many people and kids could be seen wearing Santa costumes. The markets also wore a colourful look, including those in Sectors 19 and 20. Neeraj Bajaj, president of Business Promotion Council, Sector 17,said that shopkeepers had come together to decorate the shops and Christmas music was also played through the corridors of the sector.At Elante Mall a special paleolithic ice-age exhibit has been created for the shoppers. Along with a Christmas theme, animals like mammoths, pangolins and penguins were displayed in the main atrium.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/christmas-celebrated-in-chandigarh-with-festive-fervour-101640465129927.html
26-12-2021||Chandigarh||I-League: RoundGlass Punjab FC to take on Rajasthan United FC today||RoundGlass Punjab FC is all set to kick-off its Hero I-League 2021-22 campaign against newly-promoted Rajasthan United FC on December 26 at the Kalyani Stadium near Kolkata.After an impressive I-League debut in 2020-21 under its new ownership, the club is determined to put on another inspiring show in the coming season, with a squad that’s a blend of youth and experience and has been trained under head coach, Ashley Westwood. Westwood said, “It has been a good 11 weeks of preparation in the pre-season. A big plus for us is that we head into the first game with all players available and no injury worries. We feel well-prepared and hopefully, we can put on a good performance and start off the campaign with a good result.”Defender Gurtej Singh, who hails from Punjab said, “Our preparation has been very good after 11 weeks here in Kolkata and the squad is gelling together well. The bonding in the team is great and we have a wonderful mix of young and senior players. Everyone is working hard in training and we are all ready to go for tomorrow’s match.” Over the transfer window, RoundGlass Punjab FC strengthened its ranks with highly experienced Indian stars such as CK Vineeth, Robin Singh, and Rino Anto, who will now be seen playing alongside players from the last season like Bikash Yumnam, Saurabh Bhanwala and Aakash Sangwan. Spanish midfielder Joseba Beitia will continue from last season, with defender Josef Yarney and forwards Kurtis Guthrie and Travis Major being the three new additions to the club’s foreign contingent.The team Goalkeepers: Lalthuammawia Ralte, Jaspreet Singh, Jaskaranbir Singh, Penand Singh;Defenders: Aakash Sangwan, Rino Anto, Lalchhuanmawia Fanai, Josef Yarney (England), Bikash Yumnam, Saurabh Bhanwala, Gurtej Singh;Midfielders: CK Vineeth, Kean Lewis, Denzil Kharshandi, Tongbram Maheson Singh, Suranjit Singh, Shankar Sampingiraj, Ashis Pradhan, Freddy Lallawmawma, Rupert Nongrum, Joseba Beitia (Spain);Forwards: Aashish Jha, Aphaoba Singh, Sumeet Passi, Robin Singh, Travis Major (Australia), Kurtis Guthrie (England).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ileague-roundglass-punjab-fc-to-take-on-rajasthan-united-fc-today-101640464948314.html
26-12-2021||Chandigarh||Panchkula residents throng Covid vaccination centres for 2nd dose||Following the Haryana’s government announcement on December 22 to ban the entry of partially vaccinated residents into public places from January 1, Panchkula residents are now thronging vaccination centres. Primary health centres (PHCs) in the district, which witnessed low turnout till last week, are now recording large footfall.“We had a tough time convincing people to come forward for vaccination. Some of them even misbehaved and argued with health workers,” said Dr Meenu Sasan, district immunisation officer. She added that even amid pressure from the central government to increase the percentage of fully-vaccinated population, citizens were not cooperating.Till December 22, 83% of the target population was fully vaccinated, and within just two days, it has increased to 85%. Also, the number of people getting jabbed per day has increased from 2,000 to 4,000. Many residents are also coming forward to get the first dose.Out of the target population of 4,44,675, only 3,80,839 have been fully vaccinated in Panchkula till now.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/panchkula-residents-throng-covid-vaccination-centres-for-2nd-dose-101640464769230.html
26-12-2021||Delhi||4 in net for kidnapping, extorting ₹50L ransom||Eight days after the 18-year-old son of a banquet hall owner from northwest Delhi’s Shalimar Bagh was abducted from outside Ghazipur flower market on gunpoint, and later released after the kidnapper collected ₹50 lakh ransom from his father, the Delhi Police on Saturday claimed to have cracked the case after arresting four persons, including an employee of the businessman, her mother and boyfriend.Senior police officers aware of the matter identified the teenager as Kinshuk Aggarwal, whose father Vikas Aggarwal, runs a banquet hall at GT Karnal Road in northwest Delhi. The family lives in Shalimar Bagh area. Kinshuk helps his father in running the business, the officers said.Deputy commissioner of police (east) Priyanka Kashyap said Vikas Aggarwal approached the Patparganj Industrial Area police station on December 18, and informed the police that his son, Kinshuk, was kidnapped a day earlier, and that he had to pay ₹50 lakh as ransom for his release.The police met Kinshuk to record his statement. According to investigators, Kinshuk said he had gone to Ghazipur flowers wholesale market on December 17 with Richa Sabharwal, 32, a flower decorator who works at his father’s banquet hall, and driver Jitender, the DCP said.Around 7.30am, they were sitting inside the car when a man wearing black hooded jacket, cap and mask forcibly entered the car and held all three occupants on gunpoint. The unidentified man threatened to kill them if they raised any alarm. He asked the driver to move towards Ashok Vihar, she said.“On the way, the kidnapper took Kinshuk’s phone and called his father, demanding ₹1 crore for his son’s safe release. But after negotiation, he agreed to release everyone after collecting ₹50 lakh. Within an hour, the businessman met the kidnapper in Ashok Vihar with the money. The kidnapper released Kinshuk, Sabarwal, and the driver, and asked the businessman to take the wheel. The kidnapper took them to Paschim Vihar, where he got down and threatened Vikas Aggarwal to arrange the remaining ₹50 lakh,” said the DCP.How cops identified, caught suspectsA case of kidnapping for ransom was registered on the businessman’s complaint, and two teams were formed to investigate the case. The teams scanned nearly 150 CCTV cameras on the car’s route between Ghazipur and Paschim Vihar, covering nearly 70 kilometres.
26-12-2021||Chandigarh||Panchkula police makes 3rd arrest in ‘nude call’ extortion case||The local police have arrested a third member of the gang that blackmailed a resident of Sector 20 with nude videos and extorted ₹16.11 lakh.He has been identified as Kuldeep Kumar of Raf village in Rajasthan. He was arrested from Bhiwadi on December 24.Two of the gang members – Nasir Mohammad, hailing from Ishnaka village in Rajasthan, and Kushalpal from Jraar village in Uttar Pradesh – were arrested earlier this week. Police took Nasir’s custody from Delhi Police on December 20, while Kushalpal was arrested from Bhiwadi, Rajasthan, on December 22. On December 24, the third person was arrested.The 69-year-old victim, who lives with his wife in Sector 20, had filed an extortion complaint against the gang on July 8. In his complaint, the victim had named Nisha, Rahul, and Alok Verma and Gaurav Malhotra, who claimed to be police officers from Delhi Police crime branch.The complainant told the police that he received a Facebook friend request from a woman named Nisha in June. After he accepted the request, she sought his WhatsApp number, but he refused.Later, while he was driving his car, he received a video call from the woman on Facebook messenger. When he answered, he found her undressed and immediately disconnected the call.Thereon, the woman started blackmailing him, and he also received threatening calls from Alok Verma and Gaurav Malhotra, following which he ended up paying over ₹16.11 lakh to avoid trouble.Tracking the bank accounts where the victim transferred the money, police zeroed in on Kushalpal, who works as a supervisor in a private company. This further led to the two arrests in December. According to police, the gang had blackmailed several people through the same modus operandi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/panchkula-police-makes-3rd-arrest-in-nude-call-extortion-case-101640464047755.html
26-12-2021||Chandigarh||Karnal MC launches special drive to improve Swachh Survekshan ranking||Having slipped to 86th rank in the Swachh Survekshan from the 17th position last year, the Karnal municipal corporation (MC) has launched a special campaign to improve cleanliness in the city. As part of a plan prepared for the Swachh Survekshan-2022, a cleanliness competition will be carried out among hotels, eateries, educational institutions, market associations and government offices and the best performers will be honoured as per the rankings. Efforts will also be made for citizen engagement and a campaign is also being organised in the city to make people aware about the cleanliness at public and private places. Officials monitoring the project said the parameters for the competition will be based on toilet cleanliness, waste management, compost pit, management of single use plastic and zero waste and 625 marks have been fixed. MC commissioner Manoj Kumar said that the focus will also be on making Karnal water surplus as the city has already achieved open defecation-free status and penalties will be imposed for defecating in the open. He said that steps are being taken to ban single-use plastic in the city. The MC and the residents of the city will also be encouraged to make their wards self-reliant by disposing of wet and dry waste properly. He said that this would be possible only with the cooperation of residents and it would also have a good impact on Swachh Survekshan 2022. Karnal deputy commissioner-cum- Karnal Smart City Limited chief executive officer (CEO) Nishant Kumar Yadav expressed confidence in bringing the city among top 10 cities in the country in the next ranking. He said Karnal has bagged a state-level gold medal in cleanliness despite the Covid-19 pandemic. 
26-12-2021||Delhi||At 431, Delhi's AQI ‘severe’ for 5th straight day, worst since Nov 13||Delhi’s air quality index (AQI) stayed in the severe zone for the fifth straight day, showed data from the Central Pollution Control Board, as pollution in the city rose to the highest level since November 13.The city recorded a 24-hour average AQI of 431 at 4pm, according to CPCB data, the highest this value has been since 437 on November 13. It was 415 this Friday, 423 on Thursday, 407 on Wednesday and 402 on Tuesday.An AQI between zero and 50 is considered ‘good’, 51 and 100 ‘satisfactory’, 101 and 200 ‘moderate’, 201 and 300 ‘poor’, 301 and 400 ‘very poor’, and 401 and 500 ‘severe’.The city has recorded 23 ‘severe’ air quality days so far this year. In November, it recorded 11 such days, the highest in the month since CPCB started maintaining air quality data in 2015.The IMD said humidity levels oscillated between 74 per cent and 95 per cent.On Saturday, Delhi’s minimum temperature settled at 7 degrees Celsius, a notch below normal, and maximum was recorded at 23.6°C, two notches above the season’s average. The maximum and minimum temperatures are expected to settle at 22°C and 8°C, respectively, on Sunday, the weather department said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/at-431-city-s-aqi-severe-for-5th-straight-day-worst-since-nov-13-101640463769913.html
26-12-2021||Chandigarh||Mohali: GMADA allots 2.5 acres in Sector 78 for construction of auditorium||Greater Mohali Area Development Authority (GMADA) has allotted about 2.5 acres to Mohali municipal corporation for the construction of an auditorium in Sector 78.Disclosing this, Mohali MLA Balbir Singh Sidhu said Punjab chief minister (CM) Charanjit Singh Channi will lay the foundation stone of the project soon, and the auditorium will come up within three years. “This will give impetus to theatre artistes in Mohali who have been going to Tagore Theater in Chandigarh for their activities,” the MLA said, adding that the auditorium will be bigger and more magnificent than Tagore Theater.While the land has been allotted to the municipal corporation free of cost, Punjab government will provide ₹15 crore for the construction of the auditorium, he added. Sidhu said the auditorium will have seating capacity for a large number of people and be equipped with a huge parking lot, lift and rooms. It may be recalled that during a recent public meeting here, Punjab CM Charanjit Singh Channi and MLA Balbir Singh Sidhu had demanded land for an auditorium in Mohali city.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/mohali-gmada-allots-2-5-acres-in-sector-78-for-construction-of-auditorium-101640463879031.html
26-12-2021||Chandigarh||Our schools better than Delhi’s, says Haryana education minister Kanwar Pal||Haryana education minister Kanwar Pal on Saturday claimed that government schools in the state are better than those in Delhi. “My educational qualification does not matter. Even if I am illiterate, our schools are better than the government schools in Delhi,” Pal said when asked about claims of Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) leader Naveen Jaihind that the minister was just matriculate.Interacting with mediapersons on the sidelines of ‘Good Governance Day’ programme in Karnal, he said, “There is no competition of qualifications of education ministers. Competition should be about the steps being taken to improve the quality of education by the state governments. Hundreds of students of government schools in Haryana take admission in top institutions of the country every year.”The education department, he said, was also ready for a competition of the state’s students with their counterparts of Delhi schools. On pending dues of private schools for admissions under the rule-134 A of the Haryana School Education Rules, he said the issue is being resolved and the funds being released to the owners of these schools and they cannot deny admission to eligible students. Whether the government may take a decision to shut schools amid increasing cases of Omicron variant of Covid19, he said as of now there is no such threat in the state. But there are no plans to open the schools with full capacity, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/our-schools-better-than-delhi-s-says-haryana-education-minister-kanwar-pal-101640463807692.html
26-12-2021||Chandigarh||12-year-old found hanging at his residence in Panipat village||A 12-year-old boy was found hanging with a scarf at his residence in Dahar village of Panipat district. The family members said the boy was alone in the house as his parents had gone for work. His mother returned home to find him hanging. The class 7 student was rushed to a hospital but doctors declared him brought dead, his father said. Investigating officer Ravi Kant said that soon after getting information, a police team rushed the spot and started the investigation.The statements of the family members have been recorded and they did not suspect any foul play, the investigating officer said. The boy’s mother told the police that he watched videos on his mobile phone. The actual cause of death will be ascertained after they get the post-mortem report, Kant added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/12yearold-found-hanging-at-his-residence-in-panipat-village-101640463447591.html
26-12-2021||Chandigarh||Haryana using IT-driven initiatives for good governance: Khattar||Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar said on Saturday that numerous information technology (IT)-driven initiatives have started delivering positive results and ensuring the state moves towards good governance with the help of e-governance. Speaking on the occasion of Good Governance Day at Panchkula, the chief minister said such has been the outcome of e-governance reforms started by the BJP government that people don’t have to go to offices and run after the officials to avail benefits of various government welfare schemes. “People can avail the benefits of government schemes from the comfort of their homes through one click,” he said, adding the state government is constantly working towards Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s vision of transforming India through e-governance. The CM said a system has been developed under which people do not have to make frequent visits to headquarters in Chandigarh or to district offices to get their work done. People can take advantage of all the government schemes at nearest community service centres in their villages or online, he said. Khattar said the state government has so far received about 150 awards for technology use, and the PM has also praised the work being done in Haryana and the use of technology, which is a matter of pride for the people of the state. Starting old-age pension automatically Parivar pehchan patra (PPP) would be a strong document in moving towards the direction of good governance in the state, the CM said. “The PPP will make it easy to avail benefits of welfare services automatically. The elderly people will not have to apply anywhere as the pension will automatically starts when one attains the age of 60,” he added. Khattar said the work of generating property cards under the Swamitva Yojana has been started by abolishing the old system of ‘lal dora’. Under this scheme, over 13 lakh people have been issued Swamitva cards in the state so far. By strengthening the online system, the government has started giving direct benefits to the beneficiaries under the DBT scheme, he said. Online arms licencesMoving forward in the direction of good governance, the state government has taken various bold decisions to strengthen and revive the system, he said. “Now all the problems of the public are being solved easily through the CM Window and so far, more than 8.5 lakh issues have been resolved,” the CM said. Under the pilot project, the process of issuing arms licences is being made online in Rohtak and Panchkula, while from January 2022, ration will be distributed from the family identity card itself under the PDS scheme and the name of beneficiaries will be added and removed automatically on birth or death. BOX Key new initiatives 2022 to be Good Governance Antyodaya Utthan year Haryana Kaushal Rozgar Nigam portal launched Atal Park and Smriti Kendra to be set up in Gurugram A patrika named ‘Vyavastha Parivartan Se Susashan’ along with official calendar of 2022 launched 13. 47 lakh cards made under the Svamitva Yojana||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/haryana-using-it-driven-initiatives-for-good-governance-khattar-101640463268279.html
26-12-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana blast accused had Khalistani links, role of Pak-based entities suspected: DGP||Punjab DGP Siddharth Chattopadhyaya on Saturday said initial investigation into the Ludhiana district court blast case has revealed that Gagandeep Singh, the former state police head constable who was killed in the explosion, had gone to the washroom to assemble the bomb and plant it somewhere.Addressing the media in Chandigarh, the officiating director general of police said Gagandeep Singh, who was dismissed from service in 2019, was alone in the washroom when the bomb went off and had links with Khalistani elements and narcotic smugglers. The police have found a mobile phone and an internet dongle from the blast site which have been sent for investigation, the DGP said. “We have found strong leads in our probe that pro-Khalistani linked narco terrorists based in Pakistan are behind the blast. We won’t be able to disclose the names till our probe is completed,” he said.A senior police official familiar with the matter said the probe has strongly pointed towards the role of gangster Harvinder Singh, alias Rinda, who recently got settled in Pakistan and is actively participating in anti-India operations, especially in Punjab. Rinda, a wanted gangster in Punjab, hails from Nanded in Maharashtra, and before fleeing to Pakistan was active in Punjab. A Germany-based operative linked with banned pro-Khalistani outfit Sikhs for Justice (SFJ) is also said to be a key link in the conspiracy, the official said.Dismissed cop was ‘technically sound’A resident of Khanna, Gagandeep was dismissed in connection with a drugs-related case. “Gagandeep had Khalistani links and was facing trial in a drug case. His date of hearing in a Ludhiana court was December 24, a day after the blast. He was dismissed after 385gm of heroin was recovered from him in 2019. He was assembling the bomb inside the washroom when it exploded,” the DGP said.Gagandeep was killed and six others were injured in the blast that occurred in the court complex on Thursday. The Punjab government declared a high alert in the state after the incident.Asked if RDX was used in the bomb, Chattopadhyaya said it has been sent for forensic examination and the type of explosive used will be known after the report comes. “I cannot say conclusively what the (explosive) material was,” he said.Replying to another question, the DGP said Gagandeep was “technically sound” when he was serving in the police. “He was very good with computers and technical material,” he said.Human bomb angle ruled outRuling out the human bomb angle, Chattopadhyaya said, “It appears that he went there (washroom) to connect some wires and... to place it (the bomb) somewhere. It was not the concept of a human bomb. The posture in which he was sitting (showed that) he did not go to the washroom to use it. He was using the washroom to assemble it (the bomb). He was alone there.”The DGP said the police had tracked suspicious movement of some other persons too and efforts are on to ascertain their identities.Chattopadhyaya said the accused was identified from a tattoo on his right arm during post-mortem. Besides, DNA samples were also collected, he added.The DGP said preliminary investigations suggest that Gagandeep wanted to create fear and panic on the court premises.The material used for the explosion is yet to be ascertained as samples have been sent to the forensic lab. “A team of the NSG and that of the state forensic experts were called for a post-blast investigation,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-blast-accused-had-khalistani-links-role-of-pak-based-entities-suspected-dgp-101640462918833.html
26-12-2021||Chandigarh||Sexual exploitation: DSP was framed in false case as he acted tough against drug traffickers, says court||Faridkot : Deputy superintendent of police (DSP), special task force (STF), Bathinda, was framed in a false sexual exploitation case under criminal conspiracy with the complainant woman after he got tough on drug traffickers, observed a Bathinda special court. In the absence of incriminating evidence on record, the court acquitted DSP Gursharan Singh. The Bathinda police had arrested the DSP from a hotel in Bathinda on October 26, 2020, on charges of sexually exploiting a woman, whom the DSP had arrested earlier, along with her husband and son, with 212 grams of heroin. In the cross-examination, the complainant woman said that the DSP never committed any sexual assault on her nor did he ever called her to a hotel. She said her and her husband’s signatures were obtained in the Bathinda civil lines police station under threat. The DNA profiling report also indicated that the semen detected on the vaginal swabs of the prosecutrix does not match with that of the DSP. In the 53-pages judgment, Bathinda special court judge Baljinder Singh Sra said it is prima facie established that SHO, Bathinda civil lines, Ravinder Singh, along with sub-inspectors Harpinder Kaur and Amandeep Kaur, the complainant (Kuldeep Kaur) and her husband Rajwinder Singh entered into a criminal conspiracy to implicate the DSP in a false case and in pursuance to that conspiracy, they fabricated evidence to support the charge against him. The court considered the case on four counts: The initiation of disciplinary action against the police officials, registration of a criminal case against the police officials and the prosecutrix, prosecution of the witnesses for false evidence and awarding of compensation of ₹2 lakh to the DSP. “Their acts of omissions and commissions prima facie establish a case under Sections 218, 465, 466, 469, 471 and 120-B of IPC, so DSP Gursharan Singh is at liberty to file an appropriate application before the director general of police for registration of an FIR against the aforesaid persons within a period of 15 days. This court has already ordered the preservation of result of DNA by the forensic laboratory, which will be handy in finding the source of human semen found on the vaginal swabs of the prosecutrix,” he said. Suggestive evidence on involvement of senior cops The court also observed that DSP’s only fault was that being posted in the anti-narcotic agency, he got tough on drug traffickers, which rattled a section of police officials, who were conniving with drug traffickers. It said there is suggestive evidence on record that some higher police officers were also involved in the frame-up otherwise a police officer of a DSP rank could not have been implicated by an SHO-rank official at his own end. “However, the truth can come out only after a thorough investigation. It further disturbs the conscience of the court that if such high ranking police officer feels intimidated by the drug traffickers, who have entered into the sinews of the police system, what would be the plight of a common man? It is incontrovertible that organised crime is the biggest threat to civil society,” the court observed. Kamaljit Singh Sidhu, 45, the Bathinda district in-charge of a vernacular newspaper, had committed suicide in April and named four persons, including the woman, who had charged his brother-in-law Gursharan Singh, with rape in the suicide note.
26-12-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab logs 59 fresh Covid cases, no death||Chandigarh : Punjab on Saturday reported 59 fresh Covid cases taking the infection count to 6,04,187, according to a medical bulletin. With no Covid-related fatality, the death toll stood at 16,637, it said. The state’s positivity rate for the day remained 0.34%, highest in past over two months.The number of active cases in the state also rose to 347, the bulletin said. Among fresh cases, maximum 21 were reported in Pathankot, 17 in Mohali and seven in Ludhiana. With 42 persons recovering from the infection, the number of cured persons has reached 5,87,203, the bulletin said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-logs-59-fresh-covid-cases-no-death-101640462427760.html
26-12-2021||Chandigarh||Omicron cases, slow vaccination: Central teams deployed in Punjab, 9 other states||New Delhi: Multi-disciplinary central teams have been deployed in 10 states which are reporting either an increasing number of Omicron and Covid-19 cases or a slow vaccination pace, according to a Union health ministry office memorandum.According to the document, these 10 states are Kerala, Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu, West Bengal, Mizoram, Karnataka, Bihar, Uttar Pradesh, Jharkhand, and Punjab.“In view of rapid surge in cases and deaths because of Covid-19, as reported by various news channels, the state governments, and noted in internal reviews, it has been seen that the number of Omicron cases has emerged in some states.“It has also been observed that the pace of Covid-19 vaccination in these states is less than the national average. In wake of this situation, a decision has been taken to deploy multi-disciplinary central teams to 10 identified states some of which are either reporting increasing number of Omicron and Covid-19 cases or slow vaccination pace, to aid the efforts of the state and district administration for management of Covid-19,” the memorandum stated.These teams will be stationed in the states for three to five days, and they will work along with the state health authorities, it said.The teams will specifically look into areas of contact-tracing, including surveillance and containment operations, and Covid-19 testing, including sending of adequate samples from clusters to the INSACOG network for genome sequencing, the memo stated.They will also look into enforcement of Covid-appropriate behaviour, availability of hospital beds, sufficient logistics, including ambulances, ventilators, and medical oxygen, and the COVID-19 vaccination progress.The state-level central teams will assess the situation, suggest remedial actions and submit a report every evening by 7pm on public health activities being undertaken, besides submitting the same to the state governments, the memo stated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/omicron-cases-slow-vaccination-central-teams-deployed-in-punjab-9-other-states-101640462307583.html
26-12-2021||Other||Love story gone wrong: Man’s body found hanging from pole in Amritsar village||Amritsar In a love story gone horribly wrong, allegedly due to opposition of the woman’s family, the body of a 27-year-old man, Harpreet Singh, of Wadala village under Baba Bakala sub-division, was found hanging from an electricity pole on Friday. Police have registered a murder case against the woman and her family on a complaint from the victim’s father, Gurdeep Singh. “My son loved Pawandeep Kaur and wanted to marry her, but her family was opposing the match. During the intervening night of Thursday and Friday, my son, along with his friend, Jaipreet Singh, went outside Pawandeep’s home.”He added, “Jaipreet returned, but my son did not return the entire Thursday night. On Friday, Harpreet’s body was found hanging with an electricity pole. The family members of Pawandeep have killed my son.” Those booked under Sections 302 (murder) and 34 ((acts done by several persons in furtherance of common intention) are Pawandeep; her father Iqbal Singh; mother Mandeep Kaur and brother Jobanjit Singh. Sub-inspector Ajaypal Singh, who is investigating the case, said raids were on to nab the accused.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/love-story-gone-wrong-man-s-body-found-hanging-from-pole-in-amritsar-village-101640461587579.html
26-12-2021||Pune||At the Terrasinne restaurant on FC road in Pune, specially-abled staff run the show||PUNE Inclusivity and equality have become the buzzwords for this socially conscious restaurant “Terrasinne,” which opened its doors on Fergusson College road in March this year.It is a unique dining place for most of its serving and kitchen staff is specially-abled. “We opened the restaurant on March 15 only to close on April 2 due to lockdown. But ever since mid-July the place has been constantly booked, and people are appreciating it,” said Dr Sonam Kapse, cancer genetics super speciality surgeon turned restaurateur and owner of Terrasinne.The restaurant is managed by 12 specially-abled youth, though Dr Kapse has trained 44 youths. “They are all above 21 years of age and are farmers children from villages of Maharashtra and Karnataka. We are also sourcing organic food material like millets used in the restaurant from these farmers,” she said.Before training the youth, Dr Kapse spent three years understanding how she could help the physically and specially challenged. During her studies on their behavioural pattern, she realised that they need to be treated like normal people and should be included in everyday work, thus thinking of opening the first such restaurant in Pune.“It was a mammoth task to teach them about global cuisine, from Mexican food to Mediterranean dishes. These were kids who had not sampled pizza or pasta and using sign language, we trained them in two months,” said Dr Kapse.The menu in the pleasing alfresco restaurant is also well planned and unique, for each of the menu pages uses Indian sign language as a symbol along with each dish lined up with a unique symbol or sign and patrons are encouraged to use signs for the dish they want to order. “This is done to promote inclusivity and create an equal platform for them,” she added. Parveen is one of the servers on staff and despite the mask, one can see a smile lurking around as she uses her sign language for an order. “I am very happy to work here. I get to meet people, although it takes time to talk with them, as they are learning my language, I understand their orders,” said Parveen, who was earlier working as a beauty specialist.Many companies and people who come to the restaurant have approached Dr Kapse to train and provide them with specially-abled youth for work opportunities. “People and companies want to employ these youths to provide them an equal working platform and are willing to go that extra mile of even learning the sign language,” she said.Anisha Vaidya was with her family enjoying lunch and said, “They are very fast in understanding the order and happy to help us if we make a wrong sign. It is a great learning experience, with good food.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/at-the-terrasinne-restaurant-on-fc-road-in-pune-specially-abled-staff-run-the-show-101640457147784.html
26-12-2021||Gurugram||Speeding car rams four cycles in Gurugram, one dead||A 32-year-old security guard died and three others were critically injured after a speeding car allegedly hit their bicycles in Sector 52 on Saturday morning. The car’s driver has been arrested, police said. According to police, the incident took place around 8.10am near a crossing in Sector 52 when the guard was on his way to his rented accommodation after completing his shift. The deceased, identified as Shailender Kumar who was a native of Mainpuri in Uttar Pradesh, worked at a private company, police said. “Kumar died on the spot while three other cyclists also sustained injuries. The driver of Honda Amaze car hit their cycles from behind,” said Sanjeev Balhara, assistant commissioner of police. Balhara said that some passersby informed police control room about the accident, following which a team from Sector 53 police station was rushed to the spot. Joginder Singh (49), a resident of Indra Colony in Sector 53 an eyewitness, said that he was returning home when a speeding car crossed him and after a few metres rammed into four cycles. “When I reached the spot, I found all the cyclists lying on the road. One of them, in a guard’s uniform, was seriously injured, and when I went close by, I found that he was my tenant Shailender,” he said. “With the help of passersby, I took him to a nearby private hospital where doctors declared him brought dead. Three others were also badly injured,” he said. According to police, the errant vehicle was seized and the driver who was caught by the eyewitnesses was handed over to the police. The suspect was identified as Mannan Sanjeev, 25, a resident of Nirvana Country, Sector 50, police said. Police said the suspect, a law graduate, lost control of the vehicle and hit the four cyclists. “He also sustained injuries in the accident and was sent for a medical examination. His medical report did not show presence of alcohol in his body. The accident was caused due to speeding,” said Balhara. Three other victims are reported to be critical and undergoing treatment in different hospitals, police said. The suspect was booked at Sector 53 police station under sections 279 (rash driving) and 304A (causing death by negligence) of the Indian Penal Code. Dr Deepak Mathur, forensic expert who conducted the autopsy of the victim’s body, said that he died due to excessive bleeding and head injury. The body of deceased was handed over to the family members after the post mortem, said police. 
26-12-2021||Delhi||Tihar Jail: Six inmates die in eight days, admin says no foul play||Six inmates of Delhi’s Tihar jail have died in the last eight days, prison officers aware of the matter said on Saturday. The last of these deaths was recorded on Friday evening that of a 23-year-old under trial prisoner in jail number 3 on Friday evening, they said.The officers said though foul play was not involved in any case, a magisterial inquiry has been ordered to probe into the cause of death in each case.To be sure, a magisterial inquiry conducted by judge is ordered whenever a death is reported from inside the prison because inmates inside prison are said to be in “judicial custody”.A Tihar jail spokesperson said of the six inmates who died there four were aged between 38-48 while the other two are between 22 and 24 years.“Prima facie, the circumstances indicate the deaths are caused by natural causes. Some inmates were suffering from old medical conditions or unknown causes. None of the deaths were caused by violence. As per rule, inquest proceeding are being conducted by metropolitan magistrate in each case,” the spokesperson said.Against a sanctioned prison population of 10024, the three jails in Delhi -- Tihar, Mandoli and Rohini -- have around 19000-20000 prisoners. The records of National Crime Record Bureau show that in 2019 there were at least 46 deaths in three jails of Delhi. Of the 46, at least 35 had died of natural deaths, while investigation is pending in at least 11 cases. The NCRB is yet to release prison records data for 2020. In 2018 there were 33 natural deaths and 8 unnatural deaths, according to the NCRB dataThe bodies have been sent for post-mortem examination, after which police will submit the doctor’s report on the cause of death to the magistrate. Delhi Police officers said they will await findings of the magisterial inquiry to probe the case.Delhi jails in 2021 have been rocked by controversies related to the murders of two prisoners by prison staff inside the jails. The family members of the prisoners who died have alleged that their relatives were murdered for failing to meet the extortion demands of the jail officers. The Central Bureau of Investigation is probing the two cases, even as the prison department has denied the allegations.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/tihar-jail-six-inmates-die-in-eight-days-admin-says-no-foul-play-101640455887154.html
26-12-2021||Delhi||Eye on municipal polls, Amit Shah targets AAP at park launch event||naugurating a municipal park in Delhi on Saturday, Union home minister Amit Shah said the Delhi government should cut spending on advertisements and pay the “pending dues” to the three civic bodies, even as the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) countered that the Bharatiya Janata Party-led Centre as well as the party’s government in Uttar Pradesh were spending more than double on publicity.Shah, while launching the Bharat Darshan Park built, by the South Delhi Municipal Corporation (SDMC) in Punabi Bagh, said, “I am here to tell the Delhi CM that it will be gracious of him if he will cut the expenditure on advertisement, and pay the MCDs’ dues instead. Unlike other political parties, the BJP has done what it had promised. And the people of Delhi have now understood that other parties do not work, but just do photoshoots for advertisement.”In a statement, the AAP shot back, saying all the home minister should have done was to count the number of hoardings that his party put up in the national capital. “There are 850 hoardings of Narendra Modi and Yogi Adityanath in Delhi. In stark contrast, the Delhi government has only put up 108 hoardings,” the AAP said.“Delhi government spends barely ₹70 crore on advertisements, compared to Yogi Adityanath’s splurge of ₹2,000 crore annually,” the AAP added.The war of words between the Union minister and the AAP comes months ahead of the municipal elections in Delhi.Listing achievements by the BJP-ruled civic bodies in Delhi, Shah said the Delhi government owes ₹13,000 crore to the three civic bodies. “Beautification under the flyovers, turning 31 barren plots into beautiful parks and turning over 1,000 parks into open gyms, are few of the many splendid jobs done by the municipalities. Had the AAP government cleared the dues of ₹13,000 crore, it could have completed several other development projects,” Shah said.The AAP, however, said the three civic bodies were going through a crippling financial crisis only because of the corruption by the BJP, and called the Delhi municipalities the “world’s most corrupt municipal corporation”.“The BJP leaders of the three MCDs have looted public funds. If Amit Shah tries to run them honestly instead of supporting their corruption, then there will be a huge corpus of funds available for welfare,” the AAP said.All three MCDs, ruled by the BJP, have been facing financial problems for several years, and have struggled to pay regular salaries to their staff, and implement new projects. While the BJP says the Delhi government was choking flow of funds to the civic bodies, the Delhi government has made it clear that not only it has paid all budgetary dues to the corporations, but has also extended a loan to them.Claiming that the BJP is the only party that translates promises into ground reality, Shah said that his party doesn’t give currency to criticism from the opposition parties. “When we were talking about Ram temple in Ayodhya, they (the opposition leaders) use to ask about the dates? Now, I say to them not to feel sorry and go Ayodhya to take a glimpse of the deity that established Ram-Rajya in India. I also request them to go to Kashi (Varanasi), take a holy dip in the clean Ganga there and worship Lord Shiva. They will feel relaxed,” he said.Bharat Darshan Park is the second waste-to-art park in Delhi where replicas of monuments have been set up using scrap material. Officials said that the facility uses 350 tonnes of scrap to recreate 17 Indian monuments over 8.5 acres.The park has been built for around Rs12 crore over the past two years, said a senior municipal official said.The first such installation in Sarai Kale Khan, called the Waste-To-Wonder Park, was thrown open to the public in 2019.The Bharat Darshan Park features replicas of monuments such as the Konark temple (in Odisha), Qutub Minar, Taj Mahal (Agra, Uttar Pradesh), Sanchi Stupa (Madhya Pradesh) and Nalanda University (Bihar).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/eye-on-municipal-polls-amit-shah-targets-aap-at-park-launch-event-101640455407132.html
26-12-2021||Delhi||Delhi University colleges sent 2 fresh course plans||Colleges in Delhi University have been sent two proposed alternative course structures in line with the New Education Policy for feedback, principals said on Saturday. While the DU academic council (AC) in August approved 196 credits for a four-year honours degree and 148 credits for a three-year honours degree, the credits have been reduced to 184 and 140 respectively in the first alternative course structure and 164 and 124 in the second.The reductions have been criticised by members of the executive council (EC) and AC, who said that the course credits outlined in the proposed were far lower than those in the structure passed by the two decision-making bodies. AC members said the university communicated the new structure with principals without prior discussions with the AC.In August, Delhi University (DU) approved the introduction of a four-year undergraduate programme (FYUP), along with multiple entry-exit schemes (MEES) and an academic bank of credits (ABC) from the 2022 academic session.Under FYUP, the structure of the current undergraduate course will be changed to allow students to opt for a three-year course, a four-year honours course, or a four-year honours course with research.Miranda House principal Bijayalaxmi Nanda said two frameworks outlining the FYUP course structure were shared with colleges last week and feedback sought for them as part of ongoing consultations.“We will have a lot of consultations on frameworks and other aspects of the FYUP rollout from next year. Discussions are already taking place with principals, teachers, and other stakeholders. Recommendations have been sought from us and we will go through the frameworks in detail. The idea is to hold wider consultations to discuss the kind of framework that will suit the university,” she said.Appreciating the call for feedback, she said, “It’s a welcome step that discussions are taking place. Various committees are already working on it. With more recommendations coming from all quarters, we will be working towards the implementation in an informed manner,” said Nanda.Poonam Verma, principal, Shaheed Sukhdev College of Business Studies, said the proposals were being discussed and aspects such as the number of credits were being looked at in terms of the three and four-year programmes.“Feedback has been sought from us as part of the ongoing deliberations on the various aspects,” said Verma.Several teachers, however, once again raised concerns over the reduction of workload that would arise due to the implementation of the provisions outlined in the proposals.Naveen Gaur, AC member, said that during the August meeting of the AC, everyone knew that the structure that had been passed was not in conformity with the UGC structure. “Back then, we were told the university will strive to ensure that the structure passed by the AC will be adopted. The fact that these new proposals were not discussed with the AC and were in violation with the sanctity of the council,” said Gaur.Both the Democratic Teacher’s Front and the National Democratic Teachers Front (NDTF) wrote to the DU vice-chancellor on Saturday raising objections against the two proposals.In its letter, DTF said that the two models of FYUP were at variance with the proposals that had been placed in the AC and EC earlier. It said that if either of the two models were implemented, it will lead to massive workload deductions leading to large scale displacement of existing ad-hoc teachers.While rejecting the two proposed course structures, NDTF said that the proposed alternative course structures had reduced the total number of credits in three years honours courses which will result in dilution of the course content as well as the teaching workload/teaching positions.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-university-colleges-sent-2-fresh-course-plans-101640455047001.html
26-12-2021||Gurugram||Hindu group disrupts Christmas meet in Pataudi, allege conversion bid||A Christmas congregation at a primary school in Pataudi in Haryana’s Gurugram district was disrupted by a Hindu group claiming that the gathering was an attempt at religious conversion.A video shared on social media showed some persons chanting Jai Shri Ram at the Christian meeting while a man snatched the microphone from a woman signing a devotional song. Police made no arrests, saying no complaint was made.The House of Hope, a social organisation, organized a Christmas Milan at a private school in Pataudi to celebrate the day through song, dance and teachings of the Bible, local residents said on condition of anonymity. Children and women had gathered for the event, when a group of men barged inside the hall and stopped the programme, they said.“Two days ago, some women reached out to residents and invited them for the Christmas programme,” said RP Pandey, president of Dharam Jagriti Mission, the Hindu organisation. “Through songs and prayer, they promote their religion and pollute the minds of children about sanatan dharma.”The programme was an attempt to lure the poor and convert them to Christianity, Pandey alleged.The event was organised in his “personal capacity” by a local resident, who is a member of the House of Hope, the pastor of the organisation said, asking not to be named. “We were present when this unfortunate incident took place,” he said. “They started shouting slogans and stopped the event.”“We are not going to file any complaint,” the pastor said, also requesting that the name of the school is not revealed.Police have not received any complaint from any group, said inspector Shailender Kumar, station house officer of Pataudi police station.The incident comes on the heels of regular disruption of Friday prayers by Muslims by Hindu groups in Gurugram.
26-12-2021||Delhi||AAP, Delhi BJP tussle over provident fund payouts of civic body staff||The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) on Saturday charged the BJP-ruled MCDs with misappropriating the General Provident Fund (GPF) payouts of municipal employees amounting to more than ₹1,200 crore, even as the BJP rejected the allegation.Senior AAP leader Saurabh Bharadwaj, who is also the chief spokesperson of the party, alleged that the BJP “looted” ₹1,232 crore of provident fund money after the Municipal Corporation of Delhi was trifurcated in 2012. He claimed that now ₹1,197 crore of GPF money was divided among the three civic bodies. “Instead of reflecting in the government account, the money has disappeared mysteriously, which proves that the BJP leaders have shared the spoils of the loot,” Bharadwaj alleged.Delhi BJP president Adesh Gupta said the AAP leaders must know that nobody can withdraw money from GPF, and there was no question of funds being siphoned from the account. “As for the matter of use of GPF money for payment of employees salary or some other important work is concerned, it is Arvind Kejriwal government which is responsible for this situation as it has been constantly denying funds to the three MCDs, forcing them to draw funds from where ever possible. If AAP leaders have any serious concern for municipal employees then they should ask their chief minister to release withheld municipal funds of around ₹13,000 crore,” he said.Echoing similar views, Praveen Shankar Kapoor, the Delhi state BJP spokesperson, said AAP’s charges are nothing more than cheap tactics to malingn BJP as civic polls are approaching closer. “Before levelling a charge and calling the GPF trifurcation illegal, the AAP leader should understand that original MCD was trifurcated into three civic bodies in 2012 and the employees were given a chance to choose from either of the three new MCDs they wished to work under, and since 2012 the employees are divided under three civic bodies and get their salary and pension from the MCD they work under,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/aap-delhi-bjp-tussle-over-provident-fund-payouts-of-civic-body-staff-101640454807535.html
26-12-2021||Delhi||Delhi Covid action plan to kick in if positivity rate above 0.5% for 2 days||With the Covid-19 test positivity rate in Delhi touching 0.43% on Saturday, the Capital is close on the heels of the minimum threshold required for measures to kick in under the colour-coded graded response action plan to curb the spread of Covid-19. District officials in the city said they are ready to implement the curbs, which include restrictions on movement, curbs on markets’ operational hours, as well as closing educational institutions, if the need arises.Delhi on Friday added 249 cases of Covid-19, the largest single-day spike since June 13, when the city logged 255 infections, showed data from the state government’s daily health bulletin.The fresh infections on Friday came at a test positivity rate of 0.43%, the highest since June 9.The action plan spells out four different levels of economic restrictions that will come into force at different levels based on the positivity rate. The first level of curbs, classified as a ‘Yellow Alert’, will be imposed when the positivity rate breaches 0.5% and stays above it for two consecutive days. The highest level is a ‘Red Alert’, which will come into play when the positivity rate breaches 5% and stays so for two consecutive days.In the event of a yellow alert, all educational institutions will be closed, and markets will be allowed to open only at specified times, and may only operate on an odd-even basis.The number of passengers allowed in the Metro will be limited to 50% of seating capacity, and only two will be allowed in taxis and autorickshaws. A night curfew will also come into effect.A district official said the plan is now part of standard protocol to handle a surge in Covid-19 cases, and multiple enforcement, mobilisation and awareness teams have been deployed in all districts.“The measures will be implemented as soon as the Delhi Disaster Management Authority’s (DDMA) order is out. Our teams will spread awareness and ensure the measures are strictly complied with,” said the official.A revenue department official who asked not to be named said, “DDMA will issue a formal order communicating the restrictions applicable under the yellow alert, and the restrictions will be implemented by district authorities.”Traders fear the curbs will be a blow to them, especially during peak shopping season. Confederation of All India Traders general secretary Praveen Khandelwal said a night curfew and other Covid restrictions will hit businesses already reeling under the impact of previous lockdowns.“The domestic trade across the country is on the verge of recovery after being battered by lockdowns. Restrictions on travel in the Metro will affect the footfall at markets. Restrictions on hotels and other business will also hit employment,” said Khandelwal, adding that traders are of the considered opinion that night curfew has no meaning and the states should desist from such a move||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-covid-action-plan-to-kick-in-if-covid-positivity-rate-above-0-5-for-two-days-101640454627396.html
26-12-2021||Noida||Two brothers killed as tractor-trolley hits their motorcycle in Greater Noida||Two brothers were killed after the motorcycle they were travelling in was hit by a speeding tractor-trolley in Dankaur on Friday evening. Police have launched a hunt for the driver of the tractor-trolley, who fled the spot after the accident leaving behind his vehicle. The deceased have been identified as Somdutt (21), and Pradeep (23), both residents of Kansara village in Dankaur. Pawan (35), a brother of the deceased, filed a complaint, said police. Somdutt worked in a private factory in Kasna area while Pradeep worked as a construction labour. Pawan said Somdutt bought a motorcycle two weeks ago to travel from home to office and vice versa. “Somdutt was returning from work around 6pm on Friday . On the way, he met Pradeep and together they headed home. Some locals informed that a speeding tractor-trolley loaded with some furniture was coming from the opposite direction in Bilaspur village. The tractor navigated but its trolley hit the motorcycle.The two riders fell on the road and were critically injured,” he said. Surendra Kumar, an uncle of the deceased, said the accident took place about two kilometres away from their house. “Some locals spotted the two and identified them immediately. They rushed the two to a private hospital, where doctors declared them brought dead,” said Kumar. Soon the victims’ family members reached the hospital and informed police about the matter. Sudhir Kumar, station house officer of Dankaur police station, said a case has been registered against the unidentified driver under sections 304-A (death due to negligence), 279 (rash driving), and 338 (causing grievous hurt by act endangering life or personal safety of others) of the IPC. “We have seized the tractor-trolley and launched an investigation to identify and arrest the driver,” he said. The two bodies were handed over to the family after a post-mortem in Noida’s Sector 94.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/two-brothers-killed-as-tractor-trolley-hits-their-motorcycle-in-greater-noida-101640452106774.html
26-12-2021||Chandigarh||Kejriwal meets lawyers in Amritsar; promises to meet all demands, if elected||Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) national convener and Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal met lawyers from Amritsar, anganwadi and ASHA workers in Amritsar on Saturday to mobilise support for Punjab assembly elections. Addressing lawyers, Kejriwal said, “About 80,000 lawyers from Punjab must form their own government by joining and voting for the AAP so that all problems of the lawyers’ community can be resolved.” He added, “AAP can give a better future to the country, including Punjab, by addressing issues and problems of the common man, lawyers and teachers.”Seeking the support of the entire legal community, Kejriwal claimed, “The AAP will form the government in Punjab, but this government will be of lawyers. Demands of lawyers will be met immediately, if we are voted to power. Chambers for lawyers in courts and special benches of the high court will be set up. All kinds of insurance will be provided to lawyers and their families.”In his meeting with Anganwadi and ASHA workers in Amritsar to ‘understand their issues’, the Delhi CM assured them that their problems will be resolved.Addressing them, Kejriwal claimed that the AAP was the only party that went to people to know their issues so that once they’re voted to power they can solve those issues.He claimed that like Delhi, corruption will be eradicated from Punjab’s system and demands of ASHA and Anganwadi workers will be met. He said, “The third guarantee, announced by AAP of giving ₹1,000 per month to all women above 18, which was been heavily criticised by the other political parties, alone will provide a great deal of financial help. We only did one thing in Delhi, eliminated corruption. Then we were able to provide free water, electricity, best schools and hospitals, and free transportation for women.”He urged Anganwadi and ASHA workers to get united and ensure the formation of a AAP government in Punjab. “In Delhi, my government has doubled the pay and incentive amounts and similar benefits will be given to Punjab workers,” he said.MP and AAP Punjab president Bhagwant Mann; Punjab leader of opposition Harpal Singh Cheema; Kunwar Vijay Partap Singh; Justice Zora Singh (retd), Vipan Kumar Dhand, Bar Association president, Amritsar, and other leaders were present during these meetings.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/kejriwal-meets-lawyers-in-amritsar-promises-to-meet-all-demands-if-elected-101640446466431.html
