28-12-2021||Delhi||HC halts demolition of jhuggis in central Delhi’s Rajiv Gandhi Camp||The Delhi high court halted the demolition of jhuggis or hutments (jhuggi/jhopdi/basti) at Rajiv Gandhi Camp, also known as T- Huts, near the police compound, at Teen Murti Marg, central Delhi.On December 24, justice Sanjeev Sachdeva said neither the Delhi Urban Shelter Improvement Board (DUSIB) nor the Delhi Development Authority (DDA) conducted any exercise to identify people eligible for rehabilitation. “In the meantime, respondents are restrained from taking any coercive action against the JJ Basti at Rajiv Gandhi Camp, Behind TP Lane, Mother Terressa Crescent, Delhi also known as T- Huts Near Police Compound, Teen Murti Marg, Central Delhi. Further, to avoid change of status and fresh encroachment, petitioners are directed to file the list of existing occupants along with the site plan of the cluster within two weeks,” the court said in an eight-page order.Fourteen petitioners moved court against the demolition carried out by the authorities at the camps, contending that they have been residing in the area for several decades.They claimed that no exercise has been carried out under the Delhi Slum and Jhuggi Jhopri Rehabilitation and Relocation Policy, 2015 to identify jhuggi dwellers eligible for relocation and rehabilitation. The counsel for the petitioners said that the nodal agency for carrying out the exercise is DUSIB and no such exercise has been carried out by them to relocate the residents.Appearing for the DUSIB, its counsel said that in so far as the particular piece of land is concerned, they have not carried out any such exercise under the relocation policy of 2015. He submitted that the exercise of identifying eligible jhuggi dwellers is carried out by DUSIB only on receipt of a request from the agency concerned for relocation.He also submitted that in so far as the central government land is concerned, the nodal agency to carry out the exercise under the relocation policy is DDA.The court then issued a notice to DDA and sought its stand on the issue.The counsel for New Delhi Municipal Council (NDMC) told the court that an exercise was carried out by their officials and only seven jhuggi dwellers were identified. However, he conceded that no such request was made to either DDA or DUSIB to carry out the exercise.Taking note of the submissions, the court said that no proposal has been brought before DUSIB, nor an exercise carried out by the agency.“In view of the errors pointed out in the conduct of survey and the alleged non compliance of the requisite steps, it is expedient to call for an affidavit from the authorities to show the steps followed and compliance with the procedure laid down in the Delhi Slum and Jhuggi Jhopri Rehabilitation and Relocation Policy, 2015,” the court said.The matter will next be heard on January 21, 2022.
28-12-2021||Delhi||2021: The year when vision of a 24-hr ‘future-ready’ Delhi took root||2021 was the year when Delhi planned to become the “future-ready” capital. The Delhi Development Authority (DDA), the nodal urban planning agency in Delhi, came out with a series of policies and a new master plan, the blueprint for the sustainable development of the city in the next two decades.To place the capital in the same league as other global megacities, the draft Master Plan of Delhi-2041 proposes a 24-hour city with thriving nightlife, high-rise studio apartments near mass transit facilities, co-working spaces, rental housing, pedestrian-friendly streets, etc. The Master Plan, which was put up for public scrutiny in June, is likely to be finalised by February next year. The DDA recently completed the public consultation process, which was for the first time held virtually due to the pandemic. According to senior DDA officials, the agency received close to 33,000 suggestions/objections regarding the new vision document.The plan also proposes a major change in DDA’s role in the city’s development from that of a developer to regulator and facilitator by allowing private developers to provide for the housing needs in the future. Since 1957, the DDA has been the sole developer providing for the city’s growing housing demand.The new provisions in the plan encourages mixed use development, proposed in the MPD-2021. But resident welfare associations in the city are opposing it saying that it has “destroyed the residential character of neighbourhoods”.For the first time, the Master Plan takes into account the housing needs of the migrant workers. The plan has provision for affordable rental housing, especially near industrial areas and commercial hubs.It also proposes that local bodies and the tourism department identify nightlife circuits (NCs) and permit extended timings for socio-cultural activities. The plan proposes a shift from manufacturing to clean industries such as knowledge and cyber, and a push to foster a “Night-Time Economy”.Apart from the plan, the DDA came out with policies to regulate parking in new buildings, development in the city’s green belts and redevelopment of unauthorised colonies.But its implementation, urban planning experts say, are fraught with challenges.Shamsher Singh, former chief town planner of the erstwhile Municipal Corporation of Delhi, said, “The biggest hurdle in the implementation of the Master Plan has been multiplicity of authority in the capital. A lot of schemes or policies such as special area redevelopment plans could be implemented due to this reason. There is a need for a good monitoring mechanism.”Housing schemeFor the first time in 2021, the DDA came up with two housing schemes in the same year. In January, the land-owning agency came out with a housing scheme with 1,354 flats, mainly for high and middle income groups. The HIG flats were priced at ₹2.14 crore. With a large number of flats returned by allottees of past housing schemes, the DDA recently announced a new housing scheme to dispose of 18,000-plus flats in several areas.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/2021-the-year-when-vision-of-a-24-hr-future-ready-delhi-took-root-101640716021578.html
28-12-2021||Lucknow||UP’s actual budget size may shrink to less than ₹5 lakh crore||LUCKNOW The Uttar Pradesh government may have claimed that the estimated size of its annual budget may reach ₹6 lakh crore in 2021-2022, but its own revised estimates for the year speak otherwise.It presented an annual budget of ₹5.50 lakh crore and subsequent first and second supplementary budgets ₹7,301.52 crore and ₹8,479.53 crore, respectively in 2021-2022. The revised estimates of receipts and expenditure for the year portray a different picture with indications that the actual budget size may shrink to less than ₹5 lakh crore following adverse impact of Covid-19 on the state’s economy.Though a consistent increase has been witnessed in the state government’s receipts in recent months, targets for revenue collection in the first six months of 2021-2022 have not been met. The total receipts have remained 73.9% of the target for the first six months and 35.5% of the annual target for the year. A close scrutiny of the state government’s own analysis indicated estimated receipts of ₹5,06,181.84 crore in the annual budget for 2021-2022. This included revenue receipts of ₹418340.44 crore and capital receipts of ₹87841.40 crore. Revised estimates indicate the state government’s total receipts to be about ₹469232.86 crore, including revenue receipts of about ₹377946.46 crore and capital receipts of ₹91286.40 crore. A shortfall of ₹40,393.98 crore in revenue receipts and an increase of ₹3445.00 crore in capital receipts in revised estimates pose a serious challenge. The shortfall includes a deficiency of ₹4501.11 crore in state’s share in central taxes and ₹25995.22 crore in the state’s own taxes. “The actual estimates of expenditure have, in general, fallen short of budget estimates. But in recent years, the shortfall appears to have widened. For example, in 2020-21 the actual expenditure of ₹378710.67crore was about 26% less than its budget estimate of ₹512860.72 crore. The more worrisome is the fact that total actual expenditure has contracted between 2018-19 and 2020-21.The total actual expenditure was ₹391210.61 crore in 2018-19 that declined to ₹383351.69 in 2019-20 and further to ₹378710.67 crore in 2020-21. This decline in public expenditure is not a good thing as public expenditure, including capital expenditure, has a high multiplier effect in boosting aggregate demand besides augmenting productive capacity,” said Professor Yashvir Tyagi, former head of department, economics, Lucknow University. “The current financial year (2021-22), being an election year, may turn out to be slightly better in terms of meeting the expenditure target but would substantially miss the budgeted amount. There is a need to prepare budget estimates on a more realistic and rational basis. Further, the procedures for sanction and release of grants to various departments should be streamlined and improved upon for timely execution of expenditure programmes as outlined in the budget,” said Tyagi. In its recent reports, the Comptroller and Auditor General of India too has pointed towards gaps in budgetary estimates and actual receipts and expenditure and suggested that the state government revisits its budgetary methods. “The finance department should revisit their budgeting methods to make the budget estimates more realistic,” observed the CAG in its recommendation in the report on revenue sector for the year ending March 31, 2019 and tabled in the state assembly on August 18, 2021. The CAG, in its report on State Finances (for the year ended on March 31, 2020) tabled in the state assembly on December 17, 2021, further observed “Supplementary provisions and re-appropriations should be based on careful assessment and fund requirements. The finance department may advise line departments to improve accuracy in cost estimation of schemes/projects at the time of submitting revised estimates in order to optimize utilization of funds.” As per estimates presented in the interim budget for 2022-2023, the state government’s estimated receipts will be ₹544836.56 crore. This includes estimated receipts of ₹453097.56 crore in revenue account and ₹91739.00 in capital account. This shows an estimated increase of ₹74818.76 crore in revenue receipts. Chief minister Yogi Adityanath, speaking on the second supplementary budget for 2021-2022, presented in the state assembly on December 16, 2021, had said: “When we came here (state assembly) to present our first budget, Uttar Pradesh had a population of 220 million. It’s a state with 250 million population now. We said for a state with 250 million population a budget of ₹2.5 lakh crore or ₹3 lakh crore will not do. The size of our budget should go up and we should mobilise resources of income.” “Our revenue should be matching. We increased our revenue and the size of state budget. When our government is presenting its last supplementary budget it (size) is about 6 lakh crore. This is ₹6 lakh crore despite adverse impact of Covid-19 on the state’s economy. The state’s economy, which was the 6th largest in the country, is now number 2. We have been successful in doubling UP’s per capita income. Had previous governments worked at the same pace, UP would have been playing a lead role, not as number 2, but as number 1 economy,” he said. 
28-12-2021||Delhi||Delhi’s restaurant, movie hall owners say Covid curbs may be a body blow||Restaurants and cinema halls are staring at massive losses on account of the fresh restrictions issued by the Delhi government to curb the spread of Covid-19 in the city, with owners of these establishments saying that they were still picking up the pieces after the closure of their businesses during the fourth wave earlier this year.Also Read | Capital sounds ‘yellow alert’, adds more curbsUnder the ‘Yellow Alert’ of the Graded Response Action Plan (Grap) to tackle Covid-19, the Delhi government has directed restaurants to function at 50% seating capacity, and restricted their operation time from 8am to 10pm. Bars too are allowed to operate at 50% seating capacity, but from 12 noon to 10pm. Cinema halls and multiplexes have been directed to shut down under the fresh crubs.Noting that the theatre business had restarted only last month, with the release of Sooryavanshi, and now with Spider-Man: No Way Home, which are among the few big-ticket films to release since the start of the pandemic, cinema hall owners said that the closure of theatres dashed their hopes of a long-awaited revival and recovery.“A number of big-ticket films were lined up for release in the coming months. Due to the sudden closure, there will be a huge loss of business for cinemas. We had resumed services in August but business started only in November after the release of Sooryavanshi,” said Janmayjai Verma, manager, Delite Cinema.Also Read | Delhi’s daily tally climbs to 496, positivity rate heads towards 1%In a written statement on Tuesday, Kamal Gainchandani, president of the Multiplex Association of India, said that the Delhi government’s decision has caused massive uncertainty and can lead to irreparable damage for the film industry. “While we fully understand the need on the government’s part to take necessary preventive measures, we would request that cinemas should get equal treatment with comparable industries and institutions. Instead of closing cinemas, we would urge the Delhi government to consider introducing ‘double vaccination requirement’ to enter cinemas, as is the case in some of the other states (including Maharashtra). Alternatively, the seating capacity restriction of 50% can be reintroduced at cinemas,” said Gainchandani.Meanwhile, restaurant owners said curtailment of timings will cause a huge dent in earnings.SN Kaushal, senior manager of Kwality restaurant, Regal Building in Connaught Place, said the restrictions would require outlets to wrap up services by 9pm — a crucial period for sales.Also Read | Delhi under strict Covid curbs as yellow alert kicks in: Full list“Around 40% of the business usually takes place after 9pm, this will be lost. We will have to close early so that the staff can reach home before the night curfew kicks in,” said Kaushal. He said that while the restaurant had recovered around 80% of the business, fresh curbs could set back recovery once again.“We will have to wait and see how the situation pans out after January. If the situation continues to be abysmal, we will be compelled to take tough decisions. The morale of the staff is down because losses will have a direct impact on employment,” said Kaushal.A staff member at restaurant-cum-bar Pebble Street, at New Friends Colony (NFC), said the fresh curbs had come during the holiday season. “The impact on business will be huge. Since more people usually tend to visit our outlet in the evening, we will lose out on crucial earnings during peak business hours,” said the staff member, who did not wish to be identified.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhis-restaurant-movie-hall-owners-say-covid-curbs-may-be-a-body-blow-101640715781800.html
28-12-2021||Delhi||As fresh curbs set in, expect long queues outside Delhi Metro stations||New Delhi: Long queues are likely to return outside Metro stations with the Delhi government directing Delhi Metro to restrict passengers to 50% of seating capacity and not allow standing commuters in its trains, said officials.The Delhi Metro Rail Corporation (DMRC) started restricting passenger movement at stations on Tuesday evening itself, a few hours after the government sounded the ‘Yellow Alert’ under the first phase of Graded Response Action Plan (Grap) to curb the spread of Covid-19 in the Capital.Also Read | Capital sounds ‘yellow alert’, adds more curbsAnuj Dayal, executive director, corporate communication, DMRC, said, “To ensure compliance with the guidelines, entry to Metro stations will be regulated by restricting the number of open gates.”Officials said that there will be no change in the schedule of trains. “Around 50% of the gates will remain open at Metro stations. Of 712 gates across all Metro stations, 444 will be kept open as of now. We have our teams to check strict enforcement of the order,” said a DMRC official.Also Read | Delhi Covid-19 curbs: New Metro guidelines commuters must knowDMRC also urged people to restrict travel only for essential activities. “In view of the restrictions put in place to prevent the spread of the Covid-19 pandemic, entry through some of the gates will be regulated. Passengers are therefore requested to travel only if absolutely essential and keep some additional time for their travel,” it tweeted on Tuesday.Transport expert Sewa Ram, professor of transport planning at School of Planning and Architecture, agreed with entry restrictions, but said that the authorities should increase the frequency of trains and buses. “We have seen the public transport users suffer the most due to these unavoidable restrictions. To ensure that people continue to use public transport and don’t switch to personal vehicles, the DMRC should also increase the capacity of trains by adding more coaches and the Delhi government should increase the number of buses.”Meanwhile, residents fear their daily commute will become even more difficult.Also Read | Delhi’s daily tally climbs to 496, positivity rate heads towards 1%Sudhin, a resident of Delhi who travels to Gurugram for work regularly, said, “We will be back to standing in long queues and waiting for hours outside the stations. I might either opt for work from home or start using my personal vehicle for daily commute.”Delhi Metro operations were shut in March last year during the lockdown, and was resumed at 50% capacity in September. In July this year, 100% seating for passengers was allowed and in November, standing passengers too were permitted in trains.Delhi Metro has incurred huge operational losses due to the restrictions, and the DMRC has already written to the state government and the Centre for financial assistance to make up for the losses incurred due to the restriction on travel.Restrictions to affect tradersMeanwhile, traders in the city feel the new restrictions on travel and markets (shops have been directed to open on an odd-even basis) will impact their businesses. “It will become difficult for our staff to report at work on time. The odd-even rule for shops in markets will have a huge impact on the footfall in the market and our business, which had picked up recently,” said Atul Bhargava, president of New Delhi Traders Association in Connaught Place.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/as-fresh-curbs-set-in-expect-long-queues-outside-delhi-metro-stations-101640715721604.html
28-12-2021||Pune||Pune sees warmer December this year||Pune: December has brought too many surprises on climate front for Pune city. The month started with rains and fog for Pune and is about to end on a warmer note. According to the India Meteorological Department (IMD), the city saw its second warmest December this year since 2011. The lowest minimum temperature for December was reported on December 20 and December 21 at 11.3 degrees Celsius. This minimum temperature was warmer than normal resulting in the night temperature to remain on the higher side. However, the city experienced cooler days in December. The warmest day temperature was reported on December was 32.1 degrees Celsius. The all-time record for highest day temperature for December in Pune city is 35 degrees Celsius reported in 1896. Dr DS Pai, who heads the climate research and services at IMD, Pune said that as per the weather forecast given by IMD, the days were cooler and nights were warmer. “There was haze during the morning hours. The haze affected visibility a little as well. The haze continued during the morning hours due to smog-like particles,” said Pai, adding that the forecast for January will be issued soon by IMD. During the first few days of December, the difference between day and night temperature has been very less. According to the climatology of Pune city for December, the average mean minimum temperature is expected to be around 12 degrees. But till December 28, the average minimum temperature was 14.5 degrees Celsius. According to the weather department, this year will also end on a warmer note with 14 degrees Celsius during night. On December 31, the day temperature will be 30 degrees Celsius and the night temperature will be 14 degrees Celsius. December in 2021 broke the record for monthly rainfall with 84.3 millimetre. The all-time record for rainfall in December was earlier reported in 1967 with 71.9 mm rainfall recorded. Mercury count During the first few days of December, the difference between day and night temperature has been very less Year--Lowest minimum temperature in December in Pune (in degrees Celsius) 2019--13.7 2021--11.3 2017--8.7 1968 (All time record)-- 3.3 Day temperature Year-- Highest maximum temperature in December in Pune(in degrees Celsius) 1896 (All time record)--35 2016--34 2015--33.8 2012--32.9 2018--32.8 2021--32.7 Source: IMD||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pune-sees-warmer-december-this-year-101640715663530.html
28-12-2021||Delhi||Expect colder, foggier days from Wednesday, says IMD||Parts of Delhi witnessed light showers on Tuesday with overcast conditions prevailing throughout the day, with India Meteorological Department (IMD) officials saying it was the last rain spell of the year and predicted colder and foggy days from Wednesday. Delhi recorded a maximum temperature of 18 degrees Celsius, three notches below normal, at Safdarjung station that is considered the representative data for the city. The minimum temperature stayed at 9.4 degrees Celsius -- two degrees above normal. At Lodhi Road and Ayanagar weather stations, the maximum temperature was recorded at 16.4 degrees, IMD data showed. Safdarjung received 3.6mm of rainfall between 8:30am and 5:30pm on Tuesday, and 4.4mm rain was recorded at Lodhi Road. Palam, Ayanagar and Ridge stations also received light very rain on Tuesday, recording 1, 0.6, 1 and 0.5mm rainfall respectively during the same period. On Sunday, Delhi recorded 3.4mm rainfall.IMD scientist RK Jenamani said following the latest spell of rain, the intensity of fog is expected to go up in the region. Delhi is yet to record a dense fog spell this winter. “Shallow to moderate fog is now expected for the next few days with a slight chance of dense fog near New Year’s day. Temperatures will also start to dip, but it is not expected to be a sharp drop,” he said. The IMD has forecast a minimum temperature of around 8 degrees on Wednesday, and 7 degrees Thursday onwards.As a haze hung over the city, visibility dropped to 1,000 metres at both Palam and Safdarjung during the day, the IMD said. On a normal, clear day the visibility is 3,000 metres. The lowest maximum temperature recorded this season for so far was 17.8 degrees Celsius, recorded on December 18. This was also Delhi’s only ‘cold day’, with the maximum 5 dropping degrees below normal. The IMD classifies it as a cold day when the minimum is below 10 degrees, and the maximum is 4.5 degrees or more below normal. Despite rain, Delhi’s air quality dropped to being ‘very poor’, with the city recording an air quality index (AQI) of 305, according to the Central Pollution Control Board’s daily bulletin. The city recorded an AQI of 283 (poor) on Monday. The System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting And Research (Safar), a forecasting body under the Centre, said an improvement in AQI is likely in the next 48 hours before wind speed is expected to drop again from December 30. “On December 30, 31 and January 1, wind speed will be low and ventilation poor. This will lead to a deterioration in air quality once again,” said Gufran Beig, project director and founder at Safar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/expect-colder-foggier-days-from-wednesday-says-imd-101640715541604.html
28-12-2021||Delhi||Pandemic, air pollution kept Delhi schools on edge, students at bay in 2021||With the Delhi government announcing the closure of schools as part of curbs on account of rising Covid cases, schools in the Capital have been thrust into uncertainty once again. Schools have been shut four times since April this year – twice owing to concerns over Covid-19, and twice because of hazardous pollution levels.Educators and experts say the prolonged and repeated closures have affected teaching and learning for another year in a row, and adversely impacted the mental development of children, who need peer-to-peer interaction for all-round development.Also Read | Delhi schools to be closed after ‘Yellow Alert’ curbs imposedAlthough online classes continued when schools were shut, many students were deprived of learning due to issues ranging from affordability to accessibility, bringing to fore the digital divide in city schools.Sudha Acharya, the chairperson of the National Progressive Schools’ Conference, which has over 120 private Delhi schools as its members, said though schools were able to leverage technology for better outreach among parents and students, the need for regular in-person classes was still evident. “There was a lot of uncertainty throughout the year. We couldn’t plan anything properly due to frequent closures. However, on days when children were back in school, the school was lively as before. But the happiness was short-lived every time since we were asked to close soon after we reopened,” said Acharya.She said that frequent closures and the on-off nature of in-person classes played havoc on the mental health of children who were anxious and uncertain about the future. “The physical and mental well-being of children has been affected since the pandemic began. While we provide counselling, one cannot dispute the fact that online classes can never be a replacement for in-person interactions,” said Acharya, who is also the principal of ITL Public School, Dwarka.Also Read | Delhi govt readying jabs plan for children aged 15-18 in the citySchools were first shut in March last year when a nationwide lockdown was imposed to curb the spread of Covid-19. It reopened for classes 10 and 12 for practical work and board preparation in January 2021 and classes 9 and 11 in February. However, barely two months later, schools were once again asked to shut down on April 9 amid another Covid spike. On September 1, schools reopened for students in classes 9-12 and in-person classes were resumed for students of all grades on November 1.Subsequently, in a series of closures on account of hazardous pollution levels, schools closed on November 13, reopened on November 29, and against shut down on December 2. The Directorate of Education (DoE) allowed schools to restart in-person classes for classes 6 and above from December 18 after the Commission for Air Quality Management (CAQM) allowed schools to reopen. The Directorate of Education (DoE) issued an order on Tuesday shutting down schools “till further orders”.Administrators pointed out that while Covid concerns were valid, closing schools is not the solution to Delhi’s pollution problem. They urged the government to hold dialogues with stakeholders to come up with a sustainable solution.“For the last 4-5 years, we have seen the prevalence of peak pollution levels between November and January. It’s a recurring problem but there is no solution in sight. It’s not sustainable to close schools on and off in line with the AQI levels,” said Acharya.Noting that people continued to venture out for other chores even as schools were closed on account of various reasons throughout the year, Tania Joshi, principal of The Indian School, said the uncertainty around closure and resumption of schools was adversely impacting children, especially younger ones, who needed social and emotional interactions with peers. “Parents keep asking us about the way forward every time schools are asked to shut down. We can’t do much except wait and watch. The uncertainty affects everyone from children to teachers. Children are not interacting the way they did earlier. Students who used to be interactive earlier are now unsure and not confident in online classes. They would have responded differently had they got the chance to study in school along with their peers in the school environment,” said Joshi.Experts also raised concerns over the lack of peer-to-peer interaction among children and advocate for innovative ways of tackling the challenges that the pandemic has brought forth.Anubha Rajesh, chair professor at Jamia Millia Islamia’s Centre for Early Childhood Development and Research, said that since the pandemic was likely to go on for a few years, it was necessary to strike a balance between online and offline teaching.“Online teaching is not the solution but only an alternative in the prevailing situation. We have to focus on online capacity building of teachers as well as sustain peer interaction among students. We need to build small groups between students for the improvement of their psychological and social well-being through sustained engagement so that they have support. However, once the situation improves, the offline mode of learning is the best,” said Rajesh.Most students said they were eagerly waiting for schools to reopen even as parents said that the concerns surrounding pollution and Covid-19 are hard to ignore.Mohammad Adil (16), a Class 11 student at School of Specialised Excellence in Kalkaji, said, “Online classes cannot replace the classroom experience. Even though we have online doubt clearing sessions, it’s much easier to understand the concepts when we are in school.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/pandemic-air-pollution-kept-delhi-schools-on-edge-students-at-bay-in-2021-101640715363693.html
28-12-2021||Mumbai||Winter session ends with 54 Covid positives||Mumbai Covid marred the Maharashtra legislature’s winter session with at least 54 people, including two ministers, legislature staffers, police personnel, and journalists covering the proceedings testing positive since last Saturday. The five-day session ended on Monday with school education minister Varsha Gaikwad, tribal development minister KC Padavi and Bharatiya Janata Party legislator Sameer Meghe, among 51 others testing positive. “I learned today (Tuesday) that I tested positive for Covid-19 after getting symptoms yesterday (Monday) evening. My symptoms are relatively mild. I am fine and have isolated myself. Request those who met me over the past few days to take precautions,” Gaikwad tweeted. This is the second time Varsha Gaikwad tested positive, with the first time being on September 2020.Significantly, the legislature secretariate made it mandatory for all participating in the session to get tested for Covid twice during the five-day-long session--first before the beginning of the session and second after three days. The results rattled the people taking part in the proceedings as thousands tend to come to the legislature for various work.Over 2,300 people were tested at a camp set up for those attending or covering the session over the weekend. The winter session is due to end on Tuesday. It was curtailed to five days in view of a surge in the Covid cases. The number of active cases crossed the 10,000-mark on Monday after dropping to 6,200 three weeks earlier. The government has also imposed a night curfew across Maharashtra to control the surge.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/winter-session-ends-with-54-covid-positives-101640715244231.html
28-12-2021||Delhi||Protest in Delhi: Doctors demand apology, fixed date for counselling||The Federation of Resident Doctors’ Association (FORDA) on Tuesday proposed three demands to end their strike -- a confirmed date for NEET PG counselling after the Supreme Court hearing on January 6, an apology from authorities and withdrawal of FIRs against protesting doctors.Also Read | NEET PG protest: Kejriwal writes to PM, condemns police action on doctorsThe doctors who are protesting the delay in NEET PG counselling announced a complete shutdown of health care facilities on Monday after hundreds of doctors taking out a protest march near central Delhi’s ITO were allegedly thrashed and dragged on the road by police personnel. The police, however, maintained that only minimal force was used to prevent protesters from moving towards the Supreme Court, and added that all those detained were released the same day. “Firstly, we want the concerned authorities to ensure that we should get a date for counselling right after the Supreme Court’s hearing on January 6 concludes. Secondly, we want an apology from the authorities as the police manhandled the doctors. Thirdly, we want the withdrawal of FIRs registered against protestors,” said Dr Manish, president, FORDA, at a press conference.Also Read | Resident doctors' stir: Delhi Police says no force used, protesters seek apologyThe NEET PG counselling has repeatedly been delayed due to a bunch of cases in the Supreme Court looking at the economic reservation. The resident doctors associated with medical colleges have been protesting against the delay for over a month now, and have withdrawn from even emergency services since the past 11 days.Resident doctors of several hospitals staged a march near Delhi’s Safdarjung Hospital on Monday evening in protest against the delay, and then staged a sit-in at the Sarojini Nagar police station where hundreds of others joined them.The doctors also protested within the hospital premises on Tuesday evening even as police personnel were deployed there to ensure law and order.Union health minister Mansukh Mandaviya, met a delegation of the striking resident doctors on Tuesday.Also Read | Mandaviya says NEET-PG counselling sub judice, urges resident doctors to lift protest“I held a meeting with all resident doctors. We are not able to do the counselling because the matter is sub-judice before the Supreme Court. The hearing will take place on January 6. I hope that NEET PG counselling will start soon,” said Mandaviya. The health minister urged the doctors to call off the strike in public interest.Meanwhile, resident doctors of the country’s premier All India Institute of Medical Science (AIIMS), Delhi, who also threatened to withdraw from all non-emergency services for a day on Wednesday, in case government did not adequately respond to demands of their counter parts in other medical colleges to expedite NEET PG counseling within next 24 hours, decided to call off the strike.AIIMS, Delhi, so far has stayed away from joining the strike, but the resident doctors vociferously condemned the manhandling of doctors by the police on Monday. However, they decided to not stop work after a 12-member delegation of FORDA representatives met the health minister.“Union Health Minister has met with the resident doctors and assured that the NEET PG 2021 counselling to be held at the earliest… AIIMS Delhi RDA has decided to take back the decision of strike on December 29. All services to be continued as normal,” said RDA-AIIMS in a statement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/protest-in-delhi-doctors-demand-apology-fixed-date-for-counselling-101640715242428.html
28-12-2021||Lucknow||Hold UP elections as per schedule, political parties urge ECI||LUCKNOW In view of rising concerns over the possible third wave of Covid-19 pandemic, all political parties urged the Election Commission of India (ECI) to hold the 2022 Assembly election in Uttar Pradesh as per schedule. A team of the ECI arrived in Lucknow on Tuesday on a three-day visit to take stock of preparations for the UP Assembly polls. Chief election commissioner Sushil Chandra, election commissioners – Rajiv Kumar and Anup Chandra Pandey – along with other senior officers of the ECI held meetings with representatives of national and recognised political parties. Samajwadi Party (SP), Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP), Congress and Rashtriya Lok Dal (RLD) demanded removal of state government officers who were allegedly working on the directions of the ruling of Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP). The opposition parties also sought strict imposition of model code of conduct after the announcement of the poll schedule, check on misuse of government machinery by the BJP and adequate deployment of central paramilitary forces during polling. The BJP delegation led by party’s state unit vice-president JPS Rathore, SP delegation led by the party’s state unit president Naresh Uttam Patel, BSP delegation led by the party’s national general secretary Mewalal Gautam, Congress delegation led by senior party leader Onkarnath Singh, RLD delegation led by party national secretary Anil Dubey and Communist Party of India delegation led by party state executive member Pradeep Tiwari urged the poll panel to hold assembly polls as per schedule with strict implementation of Covid protocols. On Monday, the ECI held a meeting with the senior health ministry officers in Delhi over the Omicron threat and measures required to conduct elections safely in the poll-bound states. Later, the central government advised the poll bound states to ramp up Covid vaccination, increase sample tests and strictly enforce Covid protocols. After the meeting with the poll panel, SP state unit president Naresh Uttam Patel said: “The SP urged the ECI to hold assembly polls as per schedule with strict implementation of Covid appropriate behaviour to check surge of Covid cases. The ECI should clear doubts over the assembly election with the announcement of the poll schedule.” BJP state unit vice-president JPS Rathore said the assembly election should be held as per schedule, but the final decision rests with the ECI. “The BJP told the poll panel that in view of the possible third wave adequate arrangements should be made at the polling stations,” he said. BSP national general secretary Mewa Lal Gautam said in view of the Covid pandemic, the ECI should restrict rallies and road shows organised by the parties across the state. Congress leader Onkarnath Singh said along with holding assembly election on schedule, the ECI should ensure that all political parties follow Covid protocols during election campaigns. RLD national secretary Anil Dubey stated that the party delegation urged the ECI to hold the polls as per schedule. All political parties demanded proper revision of electoral roll to ensure that all eligible voters get an opportunity to exercise their franchise rights and removal of duplicate voters from the voters’ list. Opposition parties sought check on speeches that might flare up communal tension and action against parties/leaders who violate model code of conduct. Later, the ECI held meetings with chief electoral officer (Uttar Pradesh) Ajay Kumar Shukla, officers of state police, central paramilitary forces and other enforcement agencies to take stock of preparations for the assembly polls. 
28-12-2021||Lucknow||STPI centre inaugurated in Meerut||MEERUT Union minister of state for skill development and entrepreneurship, electronics and information technology, Rajeev Chandrashekhar inaugurated the 62nd centre of Software Technology Parks in India (STPI) in Vedvyaaspuri here on Tuesday in the presence of Meerut MP Rajendra Agarwal and officials of STPI. Speaking on the occasion, he said that the STPI-Meerut would play a catalytic role in making UP a digital hub in the next five years by attracting investors and transforming the state into a leader in technology entrepreneurship. He said that it would empower tech startups and MSMEs of the region to boost software exports and create employment opportunities while attracting FDI and realizing the vision of Digital Uttar Pradesh. Under the jurisdictional directorate of STPI-Noida, the Meerut centre is the 54th centre of STPI in Tier-2/3 cities. STPI-Meerut will play a significant role in expanding the IT footprint of Uttar Pradesh and empowering the budding tech entrepreneurs and innovators of Tier-2/3 cities to translate their unique ideas into innovative products. The union minister said, “Digital India has played a key role in empowering students to become innovative and entrepreneurial. The road to Digital India will be through Digital Uttar Pradesh”. Arvind Kumar, DG, STPI said, “A Microsoft report suggests that large companies want to shift their operation from Tier-1 cities to Tier-2/3 cities for cost-effective production. STPI has embarked on dispersing IT industry to these cities and also implementing Next Generation Incubation Scheme (NGIS) to nurture tech entrepreneurs and startups in Tier-2/3 cities to develop innovative products in emerging technologies by providing seed funding.” “Establishment of STPI-Meerut centre is a notable milestone towards empowering industry, startups, and entrepreneurs to leverage the facility and contribute towards the growth of this city,” underlined Bhuvnesh Kumar, joint secretary, ministry of electronics and information technology.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/stpi-centre-inaugurated-in-meerut-101640715181717.html
28-12-2021||Mumbai||Bike stealing YouTube hacks land four in jail||Mumbai Four 20-year-olds landed behind the bars after they used YouTube to learn tricks on how to unlock and steal two-wheelers.Dindoshi police received numerous complaints of motorcycles being stolen in and around the western suburbs. The ploy of the young men was unearthed after a friend tipped off the police saying that the men were seen riding different motorcycles to college almost every day to impress girls. The four accused have been identified as Sandeep Gaikwad (20), Ganesh Chavan (20), Yogesh Sakare (19) and Mahesh Swami (22), all students pursuing a commerce course in a suburban college. The Dindoshi police officers said that the boys learnt how to start two-wheelers without a key from YouTube videos and practiced on the bikes of their parents and neighbours before stealing their first one. In April 2021, Swami and the others robbed the first two-wheeler which was parked outside a restaurant in Malad west. Since then, they would tell their parents that they are meeting to study together at night but then would steal bikes parked in non-crowded areas. They would take the bikes to their college to impress girls. “Whenever they would come near a check post, they would get down the bikes and pretend to push it, as if taking it to a garage. The boys used to then change the number plate of the vehicle and abandon it as soon as the fuel tanks got empty,” said PSI Dr Chandrakant Gharge, investigating officer of the case.“This kind of activities by youth may be an outcome of youth subculture engaging in acts of rebellion against the mainstream norms and values or is an attempt to attain economic success in the absence of institutional means like access to a decent education. By coming together and engaging in such acts, they are able to gain legitimacy and status within the in-group members and in the process assert their youthhood, vis a vis their peers in the community,” said Dr Vijay Raghavan, criminology expert from Tata Institute of Social Sciences.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/bike-stealing-youtube-hacks-land-four-in-jail-101640715003755.html
28-12-2021||Delhi||Delhi East civic body alleges govt still owes dues worth ₹500 crore||The East Delhi Municipal Corporation (EDMC) on Tuesday said the Delhi government still owes the civic body around ₹500 crore in funds. EDMC mayor Shyam Sunder Aggarwal, said that in the financial year 2020-21, the corporation had a balance of ₹300 crore till April 2021. “Till December 27, the corporation has got ₹1286.28 crore as revenue. In total, ₹1586.28 crore was with the corporation, out of which we spent ₹1494.76 crore on salary and other items. Out of total ₹1286.28 crore, the Delhi government has so far given only ₹780.43 crore under the salary and plan scheme. Due to non-payment of other dues of the EDMC by the Delhi government, the EDMC is facing acute financial crisis,” he said. Reacting sharply to recent allegations made by Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) leaders that Bharatiya Janta Party (BJP) councillors are illegally collecting money from their respective wards, which should be deposited in the form of tax, he said that BJP councillors are collecting more revenue in form of property taxes, trade license fees, conversion charges and parking fees, compared to their AAP counterparts. “If we are the better performers, how can they accuse us of these things? The fact is that BJP councillors are very active in their wards,” he said. When contacted, AAP councillor and leader of opposition in the EDMC, Manoj Tyagi, said that BJP councillors have no other job than to use “unparliamentary” words against women councillors and accuse the AAP for all their failures. “It’s a joke to say that generating more revenue means no corruption is going on. If their councillors are generating more revenue, how can then they prove that they are honest? If they accuse Delhi government for not clearing their dues, the BJP-ruled EDMC should give the details of those dues, not of their income and expenditure. To best of my knowledge, the Delhi government doesn’t owe any dues to EDMC,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-east-civic-body-alleges-govt-still-owes-dues-worth-500-crore-101640714523538.html
28-12-2021||Delhi||Delhi govt plans to phase out single-use plastic in 2022||New Delhi: The Delhi government plans to phase out single-use plastic such as bags, cutlery , films, banners, wrappers in three phases next year, beginning with thermocol and plastic sticks used with balloons, flags and candy, according to its draft alternatives to single-use plastic policy.According to the policy, the first phase was to be implemented in January 1. However, that seems unlikely since the policy is yet to be approved by the Cabinet. The second phase, planned from July, 2022, is aimed at phasing out plastic cutlery (cups, plates, knives, forks and glasses), plastic wrapping and packing films, invitation cards, cigarette packets, plastic stirrers and banners that are less than 100 microns in thickness, the plan shows.In phase three, according to the policy, non-woven bags below 240 microns in thickness will be banned from September 30, 2022 onwards.Senior environment department officials involved in framing the policy said the document will be shared with all government departments “within the next fortnight” for suggestions and comments before being tabled in the cabinet meeting.“Suggestions and feedback will be collected from each department, and after updating the plan, we will table it before the cabinet. The financial outlay for the plan to phase out plastic items will be calculated once the policy is finalised,” said an environment official who asked not to be named. He added that the policy focuses on creating awareness on the harmful impact of single-use plastic on the environment, and not penalise offenders straight away.The official said the draft policy is also open for public feedback and suggestions, both for alternatives available and the mechanism through which these single-use plastic items could be recycled or utilised. Residents can e-mail their suggestions to the environment department on senv@nic.in, the department says. However, the policy draft has not been shared in the public domain.The policy has suggested paper bags, cloth bags, jute bags and reusable cotton bags to replace plastic bags, bamboo sticks in place of plastic stirrers, recycled cardboard and paper boxes for cigarette packs, cellulose nanofibre as wrapping sheets and cutlery made of bagasse, cardboard, paper or bamboo.The draft plan also suggests promoting local initiatives while looking at measures such as plogging (jogging and picking up litter).According to experts, most single-use plastic items cannot be recycled, and they find their way to landfill sites, or end up clogging up drains. They pollute the air if incinerated and can break down into millions of tiny pieces over time known as microplastics which contaminate soil and water.“A group of individuals stopped the use of plastic bags in certain weekly vegetable markets in Delhi NCR. The group worked with more than 800 vendors and created a model of India’s first plastic-free weekly vegetable market. Another instance is of a private university in Odisha where Saal leaves are used in official meetings/ workshops/seminars to reduce single use plastic footprint. Such initiatives have to be bolstered and promoted to encourage citizens to adopt alternatives to SUP. Plogging is a similar example wherein citizens pick up litter while jogging. It was kick-started as a citizen-led initiative and is adopted by various local groups in India,” says the plan.The Centre notified the Plastic Waste Management Amendment Rules, 2021, on August 12 this year, which made it mandatory for the thickness of plastic bags of 50 microns to be increased to 75 microns from September 30, 2021 onwards, and later to 120 microns from December 31, 2022. In addition, the manufacture, import, stocking, distribution, sale and use of 20 single-use plastic items will all be banned from July 1, 2022, according to the rules.Siddharth Ghanshyam Singh, deputy programme manager, solid waste management unit at Centre for Science and Environment (CSE) says prior to the notification of the plastic waste management rules, some sort of a partial or complete ban on plastic existed in 32 out of the 35 states and union territories, but enforcement remained a major challenge.“We have had policies earlier too, but we need to ensure strict enforcement of the ban. Urban local bodies and people on the ground such as street vendors need to be made key stakeholders in the process and alternatives need to not only be identified, but also provided to these stakeholders as a viable option,” Singh said.According to a review meeting by the Delhi Pollution Control Committee (DPCC) on December 1, 2021, 3,766 show-cause notices have been issued to plastic recyclers, manufacturers and producers in Delhi for not adhering to the plastic waste management rules, 2021.Manoj Pundir, who manufactures thermocol under the brand name of Nirvayan Polymers Pvt Ltd in Shahzada Bagh, says thermocol that is used in decorations has been banned, but it is still allowed in packaging. “Most manufacturers are not likely to be affected at the moment as the thermocol being manufactured for decoration purposes only forms a 10-20% chunk of the industry. Most manufacturers are making it for packaging goods,” he says.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-govt-plans-to-phase-out-single-use-plastic-in-2022-101640714401920.html
28-12-2021||Delhi||Delhi: Amid spike in Covid cases, DUSIB to set up 250 tents for homeless||The Delhi Urban Shelter Improvement Board (DUSIB) has decided to set up more temporary shelters for homeless people in the city amid a rise in the number of Covid-19 cases, especially of the Omicron variant, and a drop in temperature. DUSIB officials said that this time, 250 tents will be put up across the city to house homeless people.Also Read | Delhi’s daily tally climbs to 496, positivity rate heads towards 1%DUSIB member Bipin Rai said, “Earlier, we used to put 70-100 tents during winter. But this time, we have decided to put up 250 tents, of which over 190 are already operational. Due to the pandemic, we have to ensure social distancing inside the temporary shelters. We are also providing cots in all the shelters.”Last month, the state-level monitoring committee, which was constituted following a Supreme Court order, held a meeting with DUSIB officials in which the agency was asked to prepare a winter action plan.Indu Prakash, a member of the committee, said, “While there are permanent shelter homes being run by the government, we asked them to set up more tents this time. We will review the status in the meeting on January 12.”Rai said that apart from places to stay, people are being provided meals at the shelters, as per the Delhi government’s plan. “If need be, we will increase the number of temporary shelters,” said Rai.The DUSIB has 211 shelter homes in various parts of the city. During the winter season, the board sets up temporary shelters depending on the requirement. According to DUSIB officials, the board puts up 50-60 additional tents on an average annually during the winter season.Last year, the board set up close to 130 tents during the winter.According to DUSIB’s website, as of December 27, arrangements have been made at 295 locations across the city. This includes buildings, portacabins, temporary buildings and tents. A senior DUSIB official said that at 89 locations, close to 200 tents have been set up. He added approximately 8,000 people used the facility on December 27.Sunil Kumar Aledia, executive director of the Centre for Holistic Development, an advocacy group that works with homeless and migrant workers in the city, said, “The number of tents put up so far is inadequate. We have asked DUSIB to increase the number and also improve the facilities at the shelters.”According to DUSIB officials, nearly 18,000 people can be accommodated in the existing night shelters. “But on average, only 11,000-12,000 people use our facilities. Due to social distancing, we are making arrangements for just 10 beds in a tent,” said the official.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhiamid-spike-in-covid-cases-dusib-to-set-up-250-tents-for-homeless-101640714109329.html
28-12-2021||Pune||25-year-old pillion rider killed in hit-and-run at Yerawada||PUNE A 25-year-old woman was killed in a road accident with a truck on Ahmednagar road on Sunday night.The deceased woman was identified as Vibha Kantilal Jain, 25, a resident of Nana peth area of Pune, according to the police. She was riding pillion with a colleague identified as Prince Mehta, 25, a resident of Guruwar peth.The two were heading home around 6:30pm on Sunday after visiting the Phoenix mall and were passing from Shastrinagar chowk road area in Yerawada on a two-wheeler when the incident happened.The truck driver brushed them sideways from their right side, causing them to fall and fled from the spot, according to the police. The woman succumbed to her injuries, according to the police.A case under Sections 279, 304(a), 337 of Indian Penal Code along with Sections 184, 134(a)(b) of Motor Vehicle Act was registered at Yerawada police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/25yearold-pillion-rider-killed-in-hit-and-run-at-yerawada-101640714041881.html
28-12-2021||Lucknow||AKTU term-end exam: Seven caught cheating on Day 1||Dr APJ Abdul Kalam Technical University’s (AKTU) term-end examination got under way on Tuesday. Controller of examinations prof Anurag Tripathi said the attendance percentage in the examinations conducted in both the shifts was very good on the first day.He said an average of 91.14 percent students were present in both the shifts. A total of 40,229 students were to appear in the examination out of which only 344 students remained absent.Tripathi said seven students were caught using unfair means during the examination. The first shift of examination was conducted from 9:30am to 12:30pm while the second shift examination took place from 2pm to 5pm.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/aktu-term-end-exam-seven-caught-cheating-on-day-1-101640713983569.html
28-12-2021||Pune||Costlier fuel drives buyers towards CNG, electric vehicles||PUNE The rising fuel prices over the last one year seem to have nudged buyers towards the CNG and electric variants. As per the Pune Regional Transport Office (RTO) there has been an increase in registrations of CNG, electric vehicles this year. Compared to CNG vehicles registered in this year, still the electric vehicles are half of the registrations. While there has been a steady increase over the months since January 2021.As per the data statistics given by the Pune RTO, in this year a total of 10,301 CNG cars were registered between January to December 26, 2021. While between the same period a total of 360 electric cars were registered. Interestingly 5,304 electric bikes were registered in the same period, as there is growing demand for it.“There is a steady increase in the electric cars and bike sale this year, due to which registration has also gone up. Still there was more demand to CNG cars than the electric cars, as there are few electric options in the market and affordability is a major hurdle for EV ownership in India. But in near future there will be more electric vehicle registrations done in the Pune region,” said Sanjay Sasane, deputy regional transport officer.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/costlier-fuel-drives-buyers-towards-cng-electric-vehicles-101640713862125.html
28-12-2021||Lucknow||NEP aims to fulfil vision of “self-reliant India”: UP CM Yogi||Chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Tuesday said the new National Education Policy (NEP) 2020 had been implemented in the country in 2020 to fulfil the vision of a “self-reliant India”. Addressing the 54th convocation of IIT Kanpur where Prime Minister Narendra Modi was the chief guest, the CM said, “We all know that the technical institutions of the country play a vital role in providing quality-driven education. The country has implemented the new National Education Policy 2020 to fulfil the vision of a ‘self-reliant India’. It is a matter of fortune that we have prestigious institutes like IIT Kanpur, IIT-BHU, IIM-Lucknow that show a new path to the youth of the state.”“The state government has contributed mutually with IIT Kanpur on several projects including being a technical partner in the defence corridor and setting up a centre of excellence in the field of artificial intelligence,” he added.Speaking on the occasion, director, IIT Kanpur, Prof Abhay Karandikar said, “IIT Kanpur has been contributing largely to all pillars of development of the nation be it at the national or at the grass root level and in that relentless journey, it is the students who have played a vital role along with the guiding faculties.”“IIT Kanpur’s vision is not only to produce skilled graduates but also better human beings who would contribute to the greater good of the society and the nation at large. A convocation is a testimony to that vision where the awardees as well as the students receiving degrees vow to contribute their learnings for the betterment of society,” said chairman, Board of Governors, IIT Kanpur, Dr K Radhakrishnan
28-12-2021||Pune||Residents, small investors hopeful as DPIL takes over Lavasa city corporation||PUNE With Darwin Platform Infrastructure Limited (DPIL) winning the bid for Lavasa hill city, the chances of improvement of the essential services like roads, street lights and water have brightened up for the residents who had been at the receiving end of infrastructure bottlenecks for the past decade. At the same time, small investors who purchased properties, which couldn’t be constructed, have expressed hope for completing the project. Minoo Wadia, president Apex Association of Lavasa Property Owners, said,“We are happy that some development has taken place after ten years. During the past several years, there was neither any progress nor development wherein the essential services like roads, water, lights have been hit hard . There was a shortage of funds and it was through courts we brought pressure on the management to deliver. We have given our suggestions to the new company and they are prepared to follow our recommendations. Currently they have to get environmental clearances for carrying out further work.” The DPIL won the ₹1,864 crore bid to acquire Lavasa Corporation through the insolvency process which was approved by the debt-ridden firm’s lenders.  Ajay Harinath Singh, group chairman, Darwin Platform Group of Companies (DPGC) said, “We have an ambitious and long term plan for Lavasa Smart City. DPIL has capabilities and resources to meet the expectations of the COC. DPIL is committed to executing the plan as per the schedule proposed to COC.”Hill station resident Suresh Goswami welcomed the decision saying, “Resolution was much needed as the previous management had messed up the project. The bankers lost their money in the project and citizens did not get the possession of their booked properties as construction was incomplete.There are 1,400 such properties of citizens who are awaiting possession.” According to Vineet Tulsyan of R3 Corporate Advisors who advised and guided Darwin Group in the bid, homebuyers have been the biggest sufferers here besides the secured financial creditors. “We will understand their concerns and involve them in the process of revival. Getting EC will be our first challenge once the NCLT approves the plan,” he said. Hindustan Construction Company (HCC) was developing a large township spread over 10,000 hectares of land in Lavasa . The hill township project Lavasa construction and development was started as per Maharashtra’s government policy and regulations for new hill stations as India’s first privately built smart city. Lavasa corporation was accused of defaulting on bank loans after the environment ministry issued a stop-work order in 2010. The company on its website admitted claims of `5,561 crore from financial creditors. BOX-On November 25 DPIL submitted a final plan for Lavasa-The company proposed a total resolution plan of ₹1,814 crore adding working capital, repair and refurbishment and other construction in the final plan for Lavasa-DIPL has proposed payment plan and schedule that includes upfront payment of ₹100 crore, payment to home buyers within 24 months of receipt of EC-Redemption of secured NCD at the end of 108 months which will incur a cost of ₹146,650 crore||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/residents-small-investors-hopeful-as-dpil-takes-over-lavasa-city-corporation-101640713441496.html
28-12-2021||Pune||Fifth case in recruitment exam malpractice nexus by Pune police; two agents arrested||PUNE A new, fifth case has been registered in the series of paper leak and exam result manipulation incidents investigated by the Pune police cyber crime cell. Two men who are suspected to be agents who got the Group C question paper from employees Nyasa communications company have been arrested by the Pune police. Now, the number of arrests in the series of cases has reached 28 and recovery of valuables worth around ₹6 crore has been made from the accused. The duo has been identified as Nishid Gaikwad, 43, a resident of Ambazari road in Nashik and a native of Shegaon-Rahatgaon road area of Amaravati and Rahul Dhanraj Linghate, 35, a resident of Shegaon-Rahatgaon road in Amravati. While Gaikwad is a farmer by profession, Linghate is a trader. “We are going after the agents in this case. During investigation of Group D exam (held on October 24) paper leak, we found new information that the Group C (October 31) paper was also leaked. So, we have registered a new offence in the case. Nyasa Communication employees leaked the paper and gave it to agents. The department officials are already in custody,” said Amitabh Gupta, Pune police commissioner. “The group C case was registered yesterday (Monday). It has a lot of exams in it. The agents got the paper from where it was printed,” said Ravindra Shisve, joint commissioner of police, Pune. “The modus operandi maybe different but wrong method of accessing the paper was used. For each paper per candidate, the charge was ₹5-8 lakh and some 500-600 such candidates of Group C are there,” said Bhagyashree Navatake, deputy commissioner of police, cyber crime and economic offences wing (EOW) of Pune police. The police are tracking at least three groups of agents - Harkal brothers at the helm, Sanap at the helm, and Gaikwad and Linghate. Whether these chains are interlinked or operate separately is part of investigation. In the first case, all the 18 people arrested were remanded to judicial custody and at least seven of them have applied for bail. In the MHADA case, three people are under arrest including the president of GA Software which is another company related to the nexus. In the case of manipulation of Teacher Eligibility Test (TET) 2019-2020, two people including the former commissioner of Maharashtra state council of examination (MSCE) has been arrested. In the fourth case, the former MSCE commissioner and a former employee of GA Software has been arrested. Nysa Communication, which is the company that has now landed on the police radar, has had operations in multiple states and also faced action for malpractices. Nysa Communications was served with a showcause notice threatening debarment by the Punjab government from participating in a tender process in 2015-2016 by allegedly furnishing false documents. The secretary, Uttar Pradesh Subordinate Service Selection Commission, Lucknow had also blacklisted Nysa Communication in 2019. In case of debarment in Punjab, the High Court of Punjab-Haryana had given time to the company to furnish required documents and asked the government to consider the documents, if submitted on time. In case of blacklisting in Lucknow, the secretary who issued the order of blacklisting had allegedly tendered an apology for doing so and the company was granted another chance of participating in hearing for why they should not be blacklisted. While no arrests have been made from Nysa communication company, the police have named them as participants in the wrongdoing. Health department exam case The nexus was exposed when some students started raising their voice against malpractices in the health department group C and group D examination. The cyber crime cell took up their complaints and started investigating into their allegations and found a chain of information leakage. The first case was registered and a total of 18 people were arrested in it. The police custody of first 17 has ended. However, the 18th arrest of Sanjay Sanap from Beed was made on Monday and remanded to police custody till December 23. The case was registered on November 26. Of the 17 people who have now been remanded to judicial custody, Mahesh Botle, joint director (non-technical) of national health mission, Mumbai. MHADA paper leak case The arrested agents in the health department case led the police to documents which showed similar leak in the examination of Maharashtra Housing and Area Development Authority (MHADA) to be conducted on December 12, Sunday. The exam was cancelled and police found GA Software director Pritish Deshmukh with the Harkal brothers in a car with various computer devices. A state cabinet minister, Jitendra Awhad, took to Twitter one night before the exam was to be conducted to announce the cancellation. Documents like optical mark recognition (OMR) sheets seized from their mobile phone, pen drive, and laptops led the police to believe that there were malpractices in the TET examination. Based on the information provided by the accused during the interrogation, police registered a third case in which the current commissioner of MSCE was arrested. During his interrogation, the police learned that the practice of manipulating OMR sheets was not novel for Supe-led MSCE. This led the police to register a fourth case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/fifth-case-in-recruitment-exam-malpractice-nexus-by-pune-police-two-agents-arrested-101640713321146.html
28-12-2021||Pune||Food poisoning: 30 girls of Pune institute complain of stomach ache, nausea; some hospitalised||PUNE At least 30 girls from the training institute in Pune district were hospitalised over suspected food poisoning, officials said on Tuesday. The girls complained of stomach upset and nausea after eating some food items for Christmas, following which they had to be hospitalised treated, and the rest treated at the OPD level, officials said.Pune district civil surgeon Dr Ashok Nandapurkar said it is a suspected case of food poisoning. “As per the information we have received, the girls had consumed food items made from paneer (Indian cottage cheese) for Christmas. On Monday, some of them complained of stomach ache and nausea,” he said. “A total of 22 girls have been taken to Bhor sub-district hospital. Of these seven are admitted and the rest are being treated at the OPD level. The remaining students have been taken to Sassoon hospital,” he said. District officials said the condition of all 30 girls was stable, adding that food and water samples were being collected for examination. The training institute, located near Khed Shivapur on the Mumbai-Bengaluru highway, is a non-profit organisation and offers a one-year free course in software programming to girls from low-income families. (with agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/food-poisoning-30-girls-of-pune-institute-complain-of-stomach-ache-nausea-some-hospitalised-101640713081351.html
28-12-2021||Lucknow||PM dedicates Bina-Panki pipeline to nation||Prime Minister Narendra Modi dedicated Bina-Panki multi-product pipeline to the nation in Kanpur on Tuesday. Union minister of petroleum and natural gas and minister of housing and urban affairs Hardeep Singh Puri, UP governor Anandiben Patel and chief minister Yogi Adityanath were prominent among those present on the occasion. The 356-km pipeline, to be operated by Bharat Petroleum Corporation Limited (BPCL), has been set up at the cost of ₹1,524 crore and will cater to the demand of petroleum products from northern states and has a capacity of 3.5 million metric tonne per annum.The project also includes augmentation of tankage capacity at Panki Depot to two lakh kilolitre and state-of-the-art railway sidings. This pipeline will reduce carbon emission by around 68% in product transportation from Bina in Madhya Pradesh to Panki in Kanpur. During the construction phase, the project generated 7 lakh man-days of employment while post commissioning the employment generation will be approximately 200 people.This project will strengthen the supply of petroleum products in Kanpur, Lucknow, Aonla, Shahjahanpur, Baitalpur and Gonda in eastern and central UP, Kathgodam in southern Uttarakhand and Muzaffarpur in northern Bihar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/pm-dedicates-bina-panki-pipeline-to-nation-101640712901130.html
28-12-2021||Pune||Extension for 31 medical staff, property tax for properties in merged villages||PUNE By considering the third wave due to Omicron Covid variant, the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) has given three-month extension to 31 medical staff like they gave to a few medical officers during the last meeting. PMC standing committee chairman Hemant Rasne said, “All the experts are worrying about the third wave in the country. Even the state government asked to keep health facilities ready to address the issue if cases rise. By considering that, instead of discontinuing the services for medical staff which were hired during the second wave, PMC decided to continue them.” Rasne said, “The health department briefed about the Covid-19 situation in the country and various guidelines issued by central and state governments. PMC is well prepared to handle any situation. We are keeping all our facilities ready for any possible rise in Covid cases.” Meanwhile, PMC standing committee has okayed property tax for properties in merged 23 villages. The tax would apply during registration of property. New property will attract more tax.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/extension-for-31-medical-staff-property-tax-for-properties-in-merged-villages-101640712781168.html
28-12-2021||Pune||283 new Covid cases, 3 deaths in Pune district||PUNE As per authorities, Pune district reported 283 fresh Covid positive cases, and three deaths on Tuesday. Out of these one death was reported from Pune rural. No death was reported from Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC) and two deaths were reported from Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC).As per the state health department, PMC has so far reported 525,599 Covid cases and 9,252 deaths till Tuesday. PCMC has reported 271,032 cases so far and a total of 3,523 deaths. Pune rural has reported 369,500 total cases so far and 7,030 deaths. In the Pune district, there are a total of 11,66,131 lakh covid cases. Out of this, 11,43,997 patients have recovered. There have been a total of 20155 deaths in the district. And at present, there are 1979 active cases in Pune district. As per the state health department, 1,098 patients were discharged on Tuesday in Maharashtra taking the total to 65,04,831 in the state. The recovery rate in the state is 97.65%. Across Maharashtra, 2,172 new cases of Covid were diagnosed on Tuesday and 22 Covid-19 deaths were reported. The case fatality rate in the state is 2.12%.The state health department stated out of 6,86,45,512 laboratory samples, 66,61,486 have been tested positive till Tuesday. That is 9.7% of patients. Currently 1,11,232 people are in home quarantine and 910 people are in institutional quarantine.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/283-new-covid-cases-3-deaths-in-pune-district-101640712541178.html
28-12-2021||Lucknow||Wildlife smugglers arrested from Sultanpur part of international racket||UP Special Task Force (STF) investigation has revealed that two wildlife smugglers, who were arrested along with 80kg of turtle calipee from Sultanpur on Monday, have links with international wildlife smuggling racket supplying calipee to different countries, claimed an STF officials here on Tuesday.Sharing further details, an STF official said the two accused —Vinod and Jain Kumar — both residents of Sultanpur, revealed during interrogation that they used to supply turtle calipee to their associates in West Bengal. From there it was smuggled to other countries, including China, Malaysia and Hong Kong via Bangladesh and Myanmar.The official said there is a huge demand for calipee in Bangladesh and in some other countries as both flesh, calipee is used for different purposes. He said the calipee is used to make aphrodisiac medicines.He explained that as many as 29 species of turtles are found in India and out of which 15 species are found in Uttar Pradesh. He said both types of turtles —hard shell and soft shell— are found in wetlands along different rivers, including Ganga, Gomti, Ghagra, Gandak and its tributaries as well as canals and ponds in districts like Etawah, Etah, Mainpuri, Auraiya, Farrukhabad etc.The official said the smugglers’ local links capture turtles and later sell them to their local associates, who further hands the turtle calipee over to their associates in West Bengal. From there it is smuggled abroad through Bangladesh and Myanmar.He said in such a long chain of the racket, it’s very difficult to reach the kingpin behind the entire operation. Earlier, the two accused were arrested from Sultanpur bus stand and were booked under relevant sections of the Wildlife Protection Act of 1972 after registering an FIR in this connection.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/wildlife-smugglers-arrested-from-sultanpur-part-of-international-racket-101640712481344.html
28-12-2021||Lucknow||MNNIT to start inter-disciplinary BTech course from 2022-23||State’s lone NIT—Motilal Nehru National Institute of Technology (MNNIT), Allahabad—is gearing up start a new course in BTech (engineering and computational mechanics) from next academic session. This course will be started under the new National Education Policy (NEP)-2020 under which a student would be able to earn a BTech degree in three years and drop out or complete the full course and earn a “BTech with Research” degree in four years, say MNNIT officials. MNNIT Senate—the top decision-making body of the institute for all academic affairs—has in principle approved the course and a dedicated committee of senior faculty members has been set up to look into all its aspects, they add. “The syllabus has already been designed. The course would start at the applied mechanics department from academic session 2022-23 with a total of 30 seats. Our applied mechanics department presently offers just PG courses,” said MNNIT director prof Rajeev Tripathi. After the Senate’s in-principle approval to the course, the proposal would soon also be put before the Board of Governors, the apex decision-making body of the institute, after the panel set up for it submits its report and then the Union ministry of education would be duly apprised. After their go ahead, admissions would be taken, he added. MNNIT director said the institute will be the first among all 31 nation institutes of technology (NITs) of India to have UG course in engineering and computational mechanics. He said over the years, most of the undergraduate engineering programmes had become broad-based and had not been able to address the emerging inter-disciplinary areas. “The emphasis will be on providing a strong grounding in fundamentals of engineering mechanics along with tools needed to address the needs of emerging areas such as biomechanics, nano-mechanics, constitutive modelling at multiple length and time scales, parallel processing, machine learning, artificial intelligence in mechanics etc,” said prof Tripathi. “The primary goal will be to cultivate in the young minds the art and science of engineering mechanics to analyse complex interdisciplinary phenomena relevant to problems in industry and cutting-edge research through experimentation, analysis and computation. A strong grounding in engineering fundamentals will enable students to appreciate emerging trends and equip them with the tools to spearhead new areas of research,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/mnnit-to-start-inter-disciplinary-btech-course-from-202223-101640712421459.html
28-12-2021||Pune||49 MBBS students, 2 staff of Miraj medical college test positive for Covid-19||PUNE At least 49 female MBBS students and two staff members from the Government Medical College at Miraj in Sangli district have tested positive for coronavirus, a senior official said on Tuesday.The students, who are largely asymptomatic, have been hospitalised to monitor their health and prevent infection from spreading. According to college authorities, the infected students were fully vaccinated. “All students are largely asymptomatic and stable. As a precaution they have been admitted to the hospital attached to the college. The infection was reported in one section of the hostel as students used to gather for meals in the mess,” said Dean Dr Sudhir Nanandkar. Earlier in the day, Dr Nanandkar said, “A total of 45 students were subjected to RT-PCR test and so far 18 have tested positive.” However, the number of students who tested positive increased during the day. According to Dr Rupesh Shinde, professor at the hospital, the students stay in the same hostel facility. “Even as most of them are asymptomatic, we have now hospitalised them to prevent any further spread,” said Shinde. Following the large number of cases, local administration has started contact tracing at large level of patients and others attached with college. Sangli Zilla Parishad CEO Jitendra Dudi said, that samples of those tested positive have been sent for genome sequencing to ascertain if the virus they have contracted is new Omicron variant. Jawahar Navodaya Vidyalaya Number of Covid cases at the Jawahar Navodaya Vidyalaya in Ahmednagar went up to 90 on Tuesday with eight more students testinh positive for Covid. According to Dr Prakash Lalge, health officer, Parner taluka, majority of the students tested positive are asymptomatic while others have mild symptoms.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/49-mbbs-students-2-staff-of-miraj-medical-college-test-positive-for-covid19-101640712365147.html
28-12-2021||Lucknow||Security of district courts: Biometric smart card system to be introduced in Lucknow, Azamgarh||The state government will soon introduce biometric based smart card system for entry of lawyers in district courts. The move is aimed at ensuring security of district courts across Uttar Pradesh (UP). The pilot project will be introduced in district courts of Lucknow and Azamgarh. Thereafter, it will be implemented in other district courts in a phased manner. “The state government has decided to introduce biometric based smart card system for entry of lawyers in district courts. Initially, the project will be implemented in Lucknow and Azamgarh district courts,” said Prashant Singh ‘Atal’, chief standing counsel, state government. Singh is also secretary of Bar Council of Uttar Pradesh, an umbrella organisation that represents all lawyers of UP. The smart card system would also help in scrutiny of unwarranted elements, who are disguised as lawyers. The smart cards will be issued to genuine lawyers who are into legal profession and are regular visitors to courts. This would help in keeping out unwarranted elements from courts. “The Central Bar Council will help the government in identifying genuine lawyers for issuing smart cards. This system will help in keeping unwarranted elements out of court,” said Sunil Dwivedi, president, Central Bar Association, district court, Lucknow. According to officials of the law ministry, multiple entry points in district courts would be curtailed as part of the security plan of district courts. Only select few entry points would be open for entry of lawyers. For entry of litigants in courts pass system would be introduced like the one in high court. “Without restricting entry of litigants in district courts security of court campuses cannot be ensured,” said Gyan Singh Chauhan, senior advocate, Lucknow high court. The Uttar Pradesh Special Security Force (UPSSF), a dedicated unit for security of district courts across the state, is yet to be constituted. This proposal passed after the sensational killing of a double murder accused in a courtroom in Bijnor district before the chief judicial magistrate on December 17, 2019, remains on paper.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/security-of-district-courts-biometric-smart-card-system-to-be-introduced-in-lucknow-azamgarh-101640712180985.html
28-12-2021||Lucknow||Met forecasts more rain, drop in temperature across UP||Indian Meteorological Department (IMD) issued a warning of more rain in Uttar Pradesh (UP) districts over the next 24 hours on Tuesday. Based on the forecast, an alert was sounded by the state meteorological department. Over a dozen districts of West UP reported rain showers on Tuesday. The state capital also recorded rain showers in some parts. The minimum temperature increased slightly in Lucknow. The minimum temperature was recorded at 12.4 degrees Celsius on Tuesday, which is five degrees above normal. The minimum temperature is expected to drop in the coming days following rain, according to experts. “The western disturbance as a cyclonic circulation over East Afghanistan and adjoining Pakistan now lies over the south of Haryana and neighbourhood states between 1.5km and 4.5km above. The trough now runs from the northeast Rajasthan to Vidarbha across West Madhya. These conditions will lead to rain in UP districts as the cyclone passes over the state,” reads the forecast issued by IMD. “Under the influence of above meteorological conditions, scattered, light to moderate rain, thundershowers with hail storm are very likely at isolated places, over the southern and central part of UP on December 28. Scattered, light to moderate rain, thundershowers are very likely at isolated places; over the northern and central part of Uttar Pradesh on December 29,” as per the warning. Director of state meteorological department JP Gupta said, “We have alerted the district authorities across the state regarding the forecast. We are also monitoring the change in weather closely. The rain will lead to a drop in minimum temperature across UP in coming days.” While the night temperature across UP stayed around 10 degrees Celsius, the day temperature recorded a marked drop. The day temperature in Lucknow was recorded at 18.5 degrees Celsius which is four degrees below normal. Similarly in Kanpur and Agra, the day temperature dropped to 17.2 and 17.3 degrees Celsius, respectively.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/met-forecasts-more-rain-drop-in-temperature-across-up-101640712125104.html
28-12-2021||Pune||Boarding vehicles on highway put passengers to risk||PUNE Commuters risk their lives daily to board buses and private vehicles from the Navale bridge chowk and other parts of the bypass highway. Everyday, illegal hawkers put food and drinks stalls where citizens stop to buy refreshments.The incident that took place on the accident-prone stretch of the highway, has once again brought to light the daily struggles of these travellers. The persons killed in Tuesday’s accident were standing on the highway near the service road exit going towards Narhe, when the speeding truck hit them. Despite repeated actions taken by the Pune traffic police department and Regional Transport Office (RTO) officials on the illegal halting of vehicles on the highway, they still continue to do so across the city. “I travel daily for work to Shirwal and our company bus picks us up near the Navale bridge. As there is no proper waiting spot, we have to stand on the highway. If a proper shed or bus stand for the company buses and private vehicles is made then this will certainly help thousands of passengers who travel from the highway,” said Keshav Bhandare a citizen.Throughout the day many company buses and private vehicles wait at different spots on the Katraj to Dehu road bypass highway. As people want to travel to their destinations and this common highway goes through various parts of Pune and Pimpri-Chinchwad, it has become a daily risk for passengers. While talking about this issue Vijay Chaudhary, assistant commissioner of police (traffic) said, “We have taken action on illegal vehicles halting and fined them for carrying passengers from the highway. People should first think of their safety and realise the risk of standing on the highway can cost to their life after today’s accident,”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/boarding-vehicles-on-highway-put-passengers-to-risk-101640711947137.html
28-12-2021||Lucknow||Women marathon by Congress draws good response in Lucknow||An impressive turnout of participants was witnessed at the marathon organised by the Congress party as part of its ‘Ladki hoon, lad sakti hoon’ (I am a girl, I can fight) initiative at the Ekana stadium on Tuesday. “This is a befitting reply to the Yogi government that did not allow marathon run on December 26. On Tuesday the marathon attracted about 20,000 participants, much higher than our target,” said Uttar Pradesh Congress Committee (UPCC) spokesman Uma Shankar Pandey. “Pooja Patel, Nisha Yadav and Dimple got first, second and third prize respectively in the 5-kilometer marathon,” said Pandey. The Congress is giving a scooty each to top three participants. Another party leader said besides top three winners 15 others were given smartphones and health bands too. These marathon runs have also been organised at Meerut and Jhansi. At the start of the marathon, due to some confusion, a stampede of sorts was witnessed while the gates of the stadium were opening. The participants were later called back and asked to wait. Eyewitnesses said this confusion happened twice. Footwear of some participants was seen at the starting point of the marathon. “Some girls thought the race had started and began running. It was all managed smoothly and no untoward incident took place,” said a party leader.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/women-marathon-by-congress-draws-good-response-in-lucknow-101640711527253.html
28-12-2021||Lucknow||Tempo, auto drivers sensitized about road safety in Lucknow||Little alertness and sensitization of tempo and auto drivers may help in saving lives of many road accident victims as they mostly remain on roads and come across people injured in mishaps, said medical and traffic experts during a road safety training programme held at Ravindralaya auditorium in Charbagh here on Tuesday.The programme was organised under the aegis of Lucknow Auto Rickshaw and Three Wheelers Association (LARTS) and Lucknow Auto Owners and Drivers Welfare Association.While addressing the event, Dr Sandip Tewari, King George Medical University (KGMU) surgery department, said thousands of road accident victims die due to delay in getting treatment and auto/ tempo drivers could play a major role in assisting such people in getting timely treatment. He also told them how to handle road accident victims.Tewari said drivers must strictly follow traffic norms and do not drive on wrong side as it turns out to be a major reason behind road accidents. He also asked them not to drink and drive.Lucknow joint commissioner of police (JCP) Crime, Neelabja Chowdhary too said drivers must strictly follow traffic norms to avert road accidents. He assured drivers of providing full support in sorting out their daily issues of no parking and fines imposed on them.LARTS president Pankaj Dixit said it was a long pending demand of providing space to auto and tempos where they could easily pick and drop passengers. He requested the police and district administration to allocate space in different parts of the city so that drivers were not unnecessary fined.Mayor Sanyukta Bhatia, who was chief guest of the event, assured them to look into their demands. She also emphasized that the state government was working for the welfare of auto and tempo drivers and even provided financial support to them during the outbreak of pandemic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/tempo-auto-drivers-sensitized-about-road-safety-in-lucknow-101640711101053.html
28-12-2021||Mumbai||Covid admissions increase at hospitals||Mumbai With the increase in Covid cases in the past one week, Mumbai has also seen a 14.7% increase in the overall admission rate of Covid patients at public and private hospitals in the city during the week between December 21 to 28. According to the data available with Brihanmumbai municipal corporation (BMC), 551 patients were admitted to Covid hospitals, jumbo centres, and isolation centres for asymptomatic patients (CCC2) in the week ahead of December 21, contrary to only 35 admissions in the week following December 14.Meanwhile, admissions in the intensive care units have seen an increase of a whopping 49% between these two weeks, pointing at more severity of symptoms among patients detected with Covid. While ICU bed occupancy increased by 41 beds in the week following December 21, it increased by only one bed in the week following December 14.However, doctors tending to Covid patients across prominent hospitals in the city have a contrary opinion and have experienced that even though the number of admissions of Covid patients has gone up in the past one week, the severity of symptoms among those admitted to hospitals remains mild to very mild. Doctors said that they have not seen a significant increase in the number of critical patients or those with severe symptoms.Dr Harish Chafle, senior consultant, Pulmonology and Critical Care at Global Hospitals, said, “The number of admissions has gone up at our hospital, but patients who come in have mild to very mild symptoms. There is a minor increase in the number of patients we have referred to ICU admission, at two on an average, at present.”Dr Rahul Pandit, who is a part of the Maharashtra government’s Covid task force, also said, “The cases that we are receiving now show mild symptoms. Future projects are likely to be similar to what we are seeing now, as long as the infection is from the Delta variant of Covid. If the infections from the Omicron variant begins to spread, the growth in the number of Covid cases is likely to be faster per day, in my opinion.”Between December 21 and 28, Mumbai added 4,145 Covid cases to its total caseload. However, during the previous week, between December 14 and 21, Mumbai had added 1,894 Covid patients to its total caseload.Comprehensive data for the week of December 21 shows a 14.7% increase in overall bed occupancy, a 49% increase in ICU occupancy, a 5.3% increase in ventilator bed occupancy, an 8.6% increase in oxygen bed occupancy, and a 9.25% increase in CCC2 bed occupancy which are used to isolate Covid positive but asymptomatic patients.In the week from December 14, a total of 35 beds overall got occupied, versus 551 beds in the week from December 21; in the week from December 14, one ICU bed got occupied, versus 59 ICU beds in the week from December 21; In the week from December 14, a total of 3 ventilator beds got occupied, versus 19 ventilator beds in the week from December 21; In the week from December 14, 12 oxygen beds got occupied, versus 116 oxygen beds in the week from December 21. Moreover, in the CCC2 facilities, in the week from December 14, 4 beds got occupied, versus 41 beds in the week from December 21.Dr Smita Chavan from Seven Hills Hospital, said, “Our admission of Covid positive patients has increased, but that is mainly due to isolation of all Omicron suspects, who are international passengers positive for Covid upon arrival at the Mumbai airport. The results for Omicron are awaited, so even if they are asymptomatic, it is mandatory according to rules that they get quarantined in a hospital, and cannot opt for home quarantine even if they are asymptomatic.”The occupancy at the 3,500-bed jumbo facility in NESCO at Goregaon went up to 55 on Tuesday. Of these, 48 Covid patients were admitted to the ward, while seven were in the Intensive Care Unit (ICU). “The daily admissions have been in the range of 11 to 13 in the past two to three days,” said Dr Neelam Andrade, dean of the NESCO facility. “Before this, our occupancy was about 15. None of the 48 patients in the ward has required oxygen support. They have mild symptoms like scratchy throat and runny nose,” she said. Doctors said that many patients are coming to facilities as they are scared, and some of them are living in large families or smaller houses.Private hospitals have also started seeing a slight increase in admissions. For instance, the Bombay Hospital in Marine Lines had an occupancy of three to four patients in the first three weeks of December. On Tuesday, the hospital’s occupancy had jumped to 26. “We have started seeing 8-10 admissions daily, a majority of them are international travellers testing positive,” said Dr Gautam Bhansali from Bombay Hospital. “As of now, there is no rise in ICU admissions,” he said. According to data from the civic body, a total of 146 international travellers have tested positive since November 1, of which 74 were detected at the Mumbai airport. 22 others, who are high-risk contacts of these internal travellers, have also tested positive. All of them are being treated at the Seven Hills Hospital.At present, 90% of the 15,278 Covid beds available at all hospitals across the city for Covid patients are vacant, according to BMC’s dashboard. 84.5% of the 1,986 ICU beds are vacant, 83% of the 1,157 ventilator beds are vacant, and 92% of the 6,790 oxygen beds are vacant.As per figures from the state government’s public health department, there are 4,765 active Covid cases in the city as of December 27.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/covid-admissions-increase-at-hospitals-101640710921185.html
28-12-2021||Lucknow||Yogi to inaugurate water sport complex in Gorakhpur on Wednesday||Chief minister Yogi Adityanath will inaugurate a water sports complex in Gorakhpur on Wednesday as well as gift other projects worth ₹1800 crore to the people of his home town.“The water sports complex at Ramgarh Tal will be the state’s first-of-its-kind that has been built by the state government and will be used to host national and international tournaments in water sports,” district magistrate Vijay Kiran said. He said trainers from Goa have been roped in to supervise water sports activities which will be put in place with all safety measures. Currently, private players offers water sports facilities in the state but none hosts national or international events. “With this, locals as well as visitors would be able to enjoy activities like water biking and skiing and other adventure water sports at iconic Ramgarh Tal, the 1700 acre lake that is known as Gorakhpur’s marine drive,” he said. Besides the five acre water sport complex equipped with world class facilities and infrastructure, others projects that will be dedicated to the city by CM are constructed Nagar Nigam building, a multi-level parking, three ITIs and one polytechnic. Notably, the iconic Ramgarh Tal also hosts light and sound shows on glorious past of the city covering historical figures or incidents or places associated with Gorakhpur. It includes show on legendary writer Munshi Prem Chand, poet Firaq Gorakhpur, Sant Kabir, Baba Gorakhnath, Chauri Chaura incident and freedom fighter Ram Prasad Bismil.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/yogi-to-inaugurate-water-sport-complex-in-gorakhpur-on-wednesday-101640710745842.html
28-12-2021||Gurugram||Haryana reports one Covid death, 126 new cases||Haryana on Tuesday reported one Covid-related death and 126 new infections , pushing the total fatality count to 10,063 and the case tally to 7,72,844 in the state. According to the Health Department's daily bulletin, the death was reported from Kurukshetra district. The bulletin said two fresh cases of Omicron variant of the infection were detected in the state on Tuesday, taking the total tally of such cases to fourteen. Seven Omicron patients, however, have been discharged. The fresh Covid cases tally, meanwhile, crossed the 100-mark in the last 24 hours after a gap of a few months. Gurugram continued to witness a surge in the Covid-19 cases, with 76 fresh Covid cases reported in the district on Tuesday. Faridabad and Ambala reported 22 and 12 cases respectively. The total active cases in the state have risen nearly three-fold during the past week. While the active cases in the state on December 21 were 234, they rose to 627 on December 28. The recovery rate was 98.61 per cent, the bulletin said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/haryana-reports-one-covid-death-126-new-cases-101640709883348.html
28-12-2021||Lucknow||Two arrested for killing minor after sexually assaulting her in Mirzapur||Two persons were arrested on Tuesday for allegedly killing a nine-year-old girl after sexually assaulting her in Katra area of Mirzapur on December 26, police said.The slippers and anklets of the deceased have also been recovered from the house of the accused, superintendent of police, Mirzapur, Ajay Kumar Singh said.Singh said the body of the girl was found lying 30 steps away from her house in a locality in Katra area on December 26 at 11.40pm. There were bite marks on her cheek. Singh said a case was registered under section 302 (murder), 376 D (gang rape) and POCSO (protection of children from sexual offence) Act was registered against unidentified persons following a complaint by her kin who informed that the girl went missing while playing outside her house.Singh said a police team led by additional superintendent of police (ASP City) Sanjay Verma was constituted to work out the case.Singh said police arrested Aman Yadav alias Ilu (19) and Thakur Prajapati (45), a resident of a locality in Katra Kotwali area, from Shuklaha Road on Tuesday. The SP said, during interrogation Yadav said he along with Prajapati were at his house. At around 4pm, they called the girl to his house on the pretext of giving her a kite and sexually assaulted her. Later, they strangulated her to death and threw the body near her house.Verma said a reward of ₹15,000 has been announced for the police team, including in-charge inspector Ramnarayan, constables Raish Ahmed and Arvind Yadav, for arresting the accused.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/two-arrested-for-killing-minor-after-sexually-assaulting-her-in-mirzapur-101640710260965.html
28-12-2021||Bhopal||Madhya Pradesh panchayat polls cancelled, says state election commission||BHOPAL: Madhya Pradesh state election commission on Tuesday cancelled panchayat elections scheduled from January 6 to February 16, days after governor Mangu Bhai Patel signed off on the Shivraj Singh Chouhan cabinet to withdraw the ordinance to hold the elections on Sunday.“With the cancellation of the election, model code of conduct, which was imposed on December 4, also ended. The commission will return the deposit amount of representatives of the first phase of the election,” state election commission secretary BS Jamod said in a letter to all district collectors.In MP, panchayat elections have been due since December 2019.The government’s decision to withdraw the ordinance follows the Supreme Court verdicts earlier this month, staying the election process on seats reserved for other backward classes (OBCs) in the local body polls and told the state to renotify OBC category seats as general due to a lack of empirical data.The Supreme Court has also stayed ordinances issued by Maharashtra to grant OBC reservation in local body elections and directed the SEC to hold elections to seats reserved for OBCs by notifying them as general category seats. On Monday, the Maharashtra assembly also passed a resolution recommending that the (SEC) should not conduct local body elections until reservation for OBCs was restored. In Madhya Pradesh, the chief minister told the assembly on December 21 that the state government will not allow panchayat elections without OBC reservation and will approach the top court. A resolution was also passed by the assembly on Friday last.The cabinet decision withdrawing the Madhya Pradesh Panchayat Raj Evam Gram Swaraj (Amendment) Ordinance 2021 cited the rise in Covid 19 cases and the assembly’s resolution.Congress leaders in Madhya Pradesh objected to the MP ordinance on grounds that it annulled the process of delimitation and reservation rotation set by the previous Congress-led government in 2019. On the basis of this ordinance, the panchayat election process was started as per the delimitation and reservation rotation of 2014.The top court, however, faulted the ordinance for OBC reservation provided for in the law without any empirical evidence.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bhopal-news/madhya-pradesh-panchayat-polls-cancelled-says-state-election-commission-101640710021080.html
28-12-2021||Bangalore||Karnataka: 80 students fall ill after eating mid-day meal served with dead lizard||About 80 students of a primary school in Karnataka's Haveri district fell ill after consuming mid-day meals in which a dead lizard was reportedly found.The district health officer (DHO) said the incident occurred on Monday and all the students were admitted to the government hospital in Ranibennur town.An ANI report citing latest updates provided by the DHO said all the children have recovered and been discharged from the hospital.However, no further information has so far been made available on how the lizard ended up in the meal.The news comes amid reports of about 30 girls of a training institute in Pune, Maharashtra, falling ill due to suspected food poisoning following a Christmas dinner. The incident that happened in Bhor taluka led to many of the girls getting hospitalised.Officials said the condition of the girls was stable, and that necessary sample collection was being done for examination. An investigation was underway.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/ktaka-80-students-fall-ill-after-eating-mid-day-meal-served-with-dead-lizar-101640707954574.html
28-12-2021||Chandigarh||Caught in the world wide web over game of Bridge||Our fingers just fly on the computer keys involuntarily, as we search for information or entertainment on search engines. The process has become a huge part of our lives, something as natural as breathing. But if we pause to think, just what image does the phrase ‘www’ conjure in the mind’s eye? The web as we know it is capable of myriad, exciting possibilities. To many, it may be akin to a vast, curtained bay window, hinting at a kaleidoscope of options, cheerful, informative, exciting, intriguing, all showcasing prospective views with the potential to amuse, entertain and keep us happily occupied. For someone like me, with a fanciful mind and overactive imagination, the web has recently been invoking images of an ominously spiralling black hole, beckoning wickedly or a gargantuan spider with nasty appendages, all eight of which are capable of encompassing, suffocating and controlling us. This latter is the image that has been my constant companion, my bête noire, for quite some time now. Let me explain. Besides awareness of sanitation, hygiene, mindfulness and frugality, the Covid pandemic has made us conscious of learning to be on our own and finding ways to pass time fruitfully without resorting to actual physical contact with other people. That’s where the story of my nightmare with online Bridge began. I had joined a group of wonderful ladies in my city who taught me the game but being declared one of the most difficult card games in the world, it was a huge challenge and I was apprehensive about actually picking up the cards dealt, the intricate bidding process and then playing multiple hands with the stalwarts. As luck would have it, Covid ripped apart life as we knew it and rendered us all recluses. It also seemed the perfect time for me to join some online Bridge platform where I could, in the haven of anonymity, better my skills, make mistakes and blunders with faceless strangers and not have to worry about embarrassing myself. So much for my innocence and unworldliness because I was soon to discover the dark side of the web, a side much maligned and rightly so. Moron, imbecile, fool, cretin are a few colourful adjectives my screen is bombarded with during play, many times in capital letters, to add insult to injury. Some players rudely remove you from their table and you are left licking your wounds. Many people sitting in remote corners of the world, hurl abuses in foreign languages. I know because curiosity takes over and I often Google the meaning! A few continue to hound and stalk you even if you exit their group and leave behind expletives like, ‘You still playing Bridge, you clown! Get out!’ Things came to such a head that I started fearing going online to play until one day my husband noticed me hurriedly shutting the laptop and couldn’t believe I was letting myself be bullied by some malicious and spiteful netizens. “What happened to all the sagely advice you keep doling out to the children? When you come to a fork in the road, try not to take the easy path, because many a time the tortuous route is there to make you stronger,” he reminded me with a grin. So, I have decided to dig in my heels, play the game and make a determined effort to learn and improve. To all the unkind and hurtful folk out there, “I am here to stay.” pallavisingh358@gmail.com The writer is a Jalandhar-based freelance contributor||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/caught-in-the-world-wide-web-over-game-of-bridge-101640708400984.html
28-12-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra logs over 2,000 new Covid-19 cases, Mumbai also sees major jump||Maharashtra on Tuesday another spike in daily Covid-19 cases with 2,172 fresh infections, taking the state tally to 66,61,486, according to a bulletin from the health department. No case of Omicron variant was reported during the day, the bulletin revealed. Tuesday's figures were 746 more than Monday’s when 1,426 fresh cases were logged in the state.Also, 22 deaths due to Covid-19 were reported on Tuesday, which pushed the fatality toll to 1,41,476. A total of 21 patients succumbed to the virus on the preceding day, as per data shared by the state health bulletin.Meanwhile, the state capital Mumbai registered 1,333 news infections and one related death taking the total tally to 7,73,031 and fatality tally to 16,374. A day ago, the count of fresh cases was 788.On the brighter side, the state witnessed more fresh recoveries on Tuesday as opposed to Monday. As many as 1,098 patients recovered from the viral disease in the last 24 hours, which is 322 more than yesterday's figures at 776. The total number of recovered patients in the state currently stands at 65,04,831.Maharashtra has so far reported 167 Omicron cases, making it the lead contributor to India's overall tally of 653 infections. Of the 167 patients found infected with the new variant of concern, 91 have been discharged with a negative RT-PCR report, the state health bulletin data showed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-logs-over-2-000-new-covid-19-cases-mumbai-also-sees-major-jump-101640704797681.html
28-12-2021||Patna||Discourage patients from consuming liquor: Nitish||Chief minister Nitish Kumar on Tuesday urged the doctors to discourage their patients from consuming liquor during treatment. Kumar was speaking at the 96th national annual conference of the Indian Medical Association (IMA) in Patna.On this occasion, Dr Shajanand Prasad Singh took the charge as the new national president. Thanking the doctors for their yeomen service during the Covid period, Kumar sought doctors’ help in his resolve to enforce prohibition. “Teach them that by drinking liquor you are inviting diseases. Discourage them to stop defecating in open and suggest them to drink clean water,” Kumar said while carrying forward his campaign against liquor.Reminding people how doctors were targeted before 2005 that forced many to leave the state, Kumar said that in years to come the state will be a hub for medical treatment. “Patna Medical College and Hospital (PMCH) will be well and truly an international level medical college and hospital. A 5400-bed ultra hospital is being built in three phases while the capacity of Nalanda Medical College and Hospital (NMCH) will increase to 2500 beds,” he said and added that the state government has provided land for AIIMS at Darbhanga. Nearly 5000 doctors attended the IMA conference. BOX:IMA’s Bhabua branch was declared the best performing in Bihar and was given IMA National President’s Appreciation Award for Best Branch and a gold medal. IMA President’s Appreciation Award was also presented to Bhabua branch president Dr Dinesghwar Kumar Singh Mantu and secretary Dr Santosh Kumar Singh for their commitment and contribution.IMA national president Dr Sahajanand Prasad Singh, who took the charge of the IMA 96th Annual National Conference held at Bapu Sabhagar at Patna on Tuesday, gave the awards and gold medal to the Bhabua branch, its chairman and secretary.The national president said that the remote branch has done splendid work during the pandemic and also was best in the state in increasing the membership of the association..||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/discourage-patients-from-consuming-liquor-nitish-101640707445160.html
28-12-2021||Patna||Cabinet approves formation of three new municipal bodies||The Bihar cabinet on Tuesday approved the formation of three new municipal bodies, namely Ghorashan (East Champaran), Itadhi (Buxar) and Sangrampur (Munger), as per the Bihar Municipal (Amendment) Act, 2020, a statement released by the state government said.The cabinet, in the meeting chaired by chief minister Nitish Kumar, also decided to upgrade seven municipal bodies and increase the areas of two. It has also approved the amendment in the name of seven municipal bodies. The state now has 19 municipal corporations, 89 nagar parishads and 154 nagar panchayats.The cabinet has given its nod for spending over ₹389 crore for the up-gradation of 89 state industrial training institutes. The decision is seen as an effort to give a fillip to urbanisation. It has approved the establishment of the eco-tourism division and the creation of 22 posts to promote eco-tourism. At the same time, approval has been given to create 38 posts for the operation of Rajgir Nature Safari. Along with this, the cabinet has approved buying 35 vehicles. The cabinet has put an end to speculations of a possible third extension to chief secretary Tripurari Sharan’s tenure, who will retire on December 31. The cabinet thanked him for his services.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/cabinet-approves-formation-of-three-new-municipal-bodies-101640707442781.html
28-12-2021||Patna||83.46 lakh children in Bihar eligible for Covid jabs from Jan 3||Around 83.46 lakh children in Bihar in the age group of 15-18 years, out of the 7.40 crore in India, will be eligible for vaccination against Covid-19, beginning January 3 at dedicated session sites different from those for adults, Sanjay Kumar Singh, executive director of the State Health Society (SHS), said on Tuesday. Bharat Biotech’s indigenous Covaxin is the only option available for vaccination of children and so vaccination session sites for them have been kept separate from adults to reduce the risk of mixing of vaccines. Children will be eligible for the second jab of the vaccine after 28 days of their first shot. Those aged 15 years or more or whose birth year is 2007 or before will be able to register on Co-WIN portal for vaccination from January 1. They can even avail of walk-in registration facility to take the jab from January 3, Singh said. “We are yet to firm up our vaccination plan for children in the 15-18 years age group, but will most likely have separate session sites for them in districts. The Centre shared with states today some guidelines on vaccination of children and will share more in days to come. We are waiting for the Centre’s blueprint before we firm up our plans,” said Singh. As a relief to senior citizens with comorbidities, the Centre has dispensed away the need of having to produce medical certificate as proof of their co-morbidity at the time of administration of the precautionary dose of Covid-19 vaccine, which will be available to them, along with healthcare workers (HCWs) and frontline workers (FLWs), from January 10, said Singh. All such HCWs, FLWs and senior citizens with comorbidity will, however, be eligible for the precautionary dose on the completion of nine months (39 weeks) from the date of administration of the second dose, he said. All persons aged 60 years and above with comorbidities, who have received two doses of Covid-19 vaccine, will be expected to obtain the advice of their doctor before deciding to avail of the precautionary dose. “We will administer precautionary dose of the vaccine to any senior citizen who says s/he has taken doctor’s advice and is suffering from comorbidity,” said Singh. The projected number of comorbid population in 60-plus age group in Bihar is 18,92,800, out of the 2.75 crore in India, as per the figures provided by the Registrar General of India to the Union health ministry. Bihar’s additional chief secretary (health) Pratyaya Amrit and Sanjay Kumar Singh were among the state health officials who attended a national-level virtual meeting, addressed by Union health secretary Rajesh Bhushan earlier in the day on Tuesday. 
28-12-2021||Patna||Bihar: PG students face delay in academic session||With the year ending, varsities in the state are yet to complete admission process for the current academic session, leaving postgraduate (PG) aspirants hassled.Patna University (PU) commenced online admission process for PG courses in November but is yet to complete the exercise.As per PU, the last date for filling online admission form in PG traditional courses including MA, MCom and MSc has been extended till January 8 while application window for vocational courses has been closed.PU has around 1,800 seats in PG regular courses of science, commerce and humanities. PU’s dean of students’ welfare Anil Kumar, said, “We are likely to complete admission process in January 2022. Scrutiny of applications will be done and merit list for PG traditional courses will be published based on marks obtained applicants in their last qualifying examination. Entrance test for PG vocational courses will be conducted by respective departments. Admission process will be expedited from the first week of January.”Meanwhile, applicants apprehend delay in academic session. Pankaj Kumar, a PG aspirant, said, “I have filled online admission form for pursuing MCom from Patna University in November. I am waiting for the publication of merit list. My degree part III result was announced in October and I have been sitting idle for the last three months. Ultimately, students will suffer as either classes will be curtailed or course duration will be elongated to compensate the delay in academic loss.”Similarly, Patliputra University (PPU) is yet to begin admission process in PG courses.“The varsity has yet not released admission form for PG courses as results of degree part III students are pending. We are expecting result publication in January. Subsequently, applications will be invited for admission in PG traditional and vocational courses”, said an official of PPU.Nalanda Open University (NOU) has also extended date for admission in various undergraduate and post-graduate courses till January 14.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/bihar-pg-students-face-delay-in-academic-session-101640707080948.html
28-12-2021||Mumbai||2,172 cases in Maharashtra, no new Omicron case||Mumbai Maharashtra breached the 2,000-mark on Tuesday as it recorded 2,172 Covid cases and 22 deaths, with Mumbai reporting a significant 1,333 cases by itself. The state did not report any new case of the Omicron variant. The state recorded a positivity rate of 2.25%. The 2,172 new cases took the total number of cases in the state to 66,61,486 and the 22 fatalities took the toll to 1,41,476.Infectious disease expert Dr Om Srivastava, who is also a member of the Covid task force of Maharashtra, said that the surge was expected. “It is happening across the world and we will witness higher numbers in January next year,” said Srivastava. He said that citizens need to follow Covid-appropriate behaviour stringently to tide over this crisis.Also, to date, the number of Omicron cases stood at 167 and out of them, 91 have already been discharged following a negative RT-PCR test.Mumbai recorded 1,333 new cases with one death, with its total tally of cases going up to 7,73,031. The total number of deaths in Mumbai has now reached 16,374.The active cases have now reached 11,492 with Mumbai leading with 5,803, followed by Pune at 1,979 and Thane at 1,502.The death toll has now reached 1,41,476, with Pune again leading with 19,805 deaths followed by Mumbai with 16,374 patients and Thane with 11,594.Dr Ameet Mandot, director, Gut Clinic, said that the new variant seems to be more infectious. “The new variant seems to be more infectious but not virulent. We are hardly seeing any hospitalisation and deaths in the current surge,” said Dr Mandot.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/2172-cases-in-maharashtra-no-new-omicron-case-101640706720857.html
28-12-2021||Mumbai||State assembly amends Act, ensures capital value of property will not be revised in FY2021-22||MUMBAI: In a relief for Mumbaikars on the eve of the civic body polls due early next year, the state legislative assembly has approved a bill that will freeze the capital value of properties in the city, resulting in lower property tax bills in this financial year. The assembly on Tuesday approved an amendment to the Mumbai Municipal Corporation Act, 1888, which will ensure that the capital value of buildings and land in Mumbai, based on which property tax is charged, will not be revised in the ongoing financial year.According to the Mumbai Municipal Corporation Act, property tax is determined according to the capital value of a building or land. The act also provides that the capital value of these landed properties be revised every five years and as such, a revision is due in 2020-21. However, the Covid-19 pandemic, the resultant lockdown and economic distress prompted the state government to decide last year that the capital value of land and buildings will not be revised in 2020-21 and that the property tax will be the same as in the year 2019-20. Since the economic stress caused by the pandemic is ongoing, it was decided to continue with this sop and accordingly, the amendment to the act will ensure that property tax bills will be the same as in 2019-20, and they will be revised only in 2022-23.Leader of the opposition Devendra Fadnavis said that the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC), which has fixed deposits to the tune of Rs78,000 crore, should waive off the property tax of residential units up to 500 square feet. He pointed to how the Shiv Sena had promised this in its manifesto for the 2017 BMC elections. Urban development minister Eknath Shinde said that the proposal is under consideration. He added that the cap on property tax for two years would cost the BMC Rs1,000 crore each year, and also lead to a commensurate benefit for citizens.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/state-assembly-amends-act-ensures-capital-value-of-property-will-not-be-revised-in-fy202122-101640706000088.html
28-12-2021||Mumbai||Malegaon blast trial: 15th witness turns hostile, tells court was threatened by ATS officers to implicate RSS leaders||Mumbai: A witness in the 2008 Malegaon blast case has told the court that he was threatened by senior officers of the Maharashtra Anti-Terrorism Squad (ATS) to implicate Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) leaders: Yogi Adityanath, Swami Aseemanand, Indresh Kumar, leader Deodhar and Kakaji.The witness, who is related to lt col Prasad Purohit, was declared hostile by the prosecution as he retracted his statement given to the agency and has become the 15th witness to become hostile in the case. Till now, the prosecution has examined around 220 witnesses in the blast case. “I was threatened by ATS officers Param Bir Singh and DCP Shrirao who were then posted with Maharashtra ATS. They told me their story was ready and that I had to only take the names of certain people. They even threatened me that if I didn’t take the said names, I would have to face the consequences. They detained me for several days,” the witness told the special National Investigation Agency (NIA) court while he was cross-examined by Purohit’s counsel.The witness told the court that five names were given to him and he was asked to mention them in his statements. Special NIA judge Prashant R Sitre told the witness, “You can lodge a complaint against the officers if you were tortured. Do you need police protection?”Special NIA public prosecutor Avinash Rasal who examined the witness pointed out to the court that the witness never lodged a complaint, if at all he was tortured by the agency. The witness was associated with Abhinav Bharat, a right-wing group that is allegedly part of the blast conspiracy. The witness had earlier told the Maharashtra ATS that he was associated with Abhinav Bharat since its formation. He had arranged several programmes with Purohit to attract the youth towards the organisation. They had even taken an oath to form a Hindu nation and nobody could rest till such a nation was formed.The trial in the 2008 blast is being conducted before special NIA judge, P R Sitre. Six people were killed and over 100 injured when an explosive device strapped to a motorcycle went off near a mosque at Malegaon, Nashik, on September 29, 2008. Sayyed Nisar Ahmed, who lost his son Sayyed Azhar Nisar Ahmed, 20, in the blast and is represented by advocate Shahid Nadeem, has already written to the judge and the NIA to take help from the Maharashtra ATS which was at one point investigating the case.The trial in the 2008 blast case began on November 2, 2018. The prosecution agency submitted a list of around 286 witnesses including doctors, police officials, forensic experts and panch witnesses. The court on October 30, 2018, framed charges in the case against all seven accused for terror activities, criminal conspiracy and murder. The accused even face trial under sections of the stringent Unlawful Activities Prevention Act (UAPA). The accused facing trial in the case include: col Purohit, politician Pragya Singh Thakur alias Sadhvi Pragya, major (retd.) Ramesh Upadhyay, Ajay Rahirkar, Sudhakar Dwivedi, Sudhakar Chaturvedi and Sameer Kulkarni.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/malegaon-blast-trial-15th-witness-turns-hostile-tells-court-was-threatened-by-ats-officers-to-implicate-rss-leaders-101640704981128.html
28-12-2021||Pune||PMC to adopt ‘wait and watch’ policy on reactivation of Covid care centres||PUNE Officials from the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) said they will adopt a ‘wait and watch’ policy for reactivating Covid-19 care centres (CCCs) for isolation and the scale of operations will depend on the response received from the people.In the last 15 days, the number of active patients in the city has been increasing. On December 13, there were 758 active cases; this number has now increased to 1,069 on December 28. Though active cases have increased, most patients prefer to be isolated at home, said, officials.“We will see how the situation evolves. Most people are isolated at home. In the second wave as well, we haven’t received a response for CCCs as home isolation was preferred. If necessary, facilities can be arranged,” said Rajendra Muthe, PMC deputy commissioner.With active cases rising in Pune, the civic administration has started preparing to restart the jumbo facility if the need arises.As a precautionary measure, the PMC has put the jumbo Covid-19 facility on the grounds of College Of Engineering Pune (COEP) on standby to admit patients if numbers start to increase exponentially.“Medical equipment is already at the facility. We also have a database of the staffers ready with us. Whenever the civic body tells us to activate the beds we can start hiring. In second wave COEP jumbo facility was functional with 700 beds,” said Shreyansh Kapale, one of the operators of the COEP jumbo Covid-19 facility.In the last fortnight, the trend of Covid-19 cases is moving upward. On Tuesday, 171 positive cases were reported in PMC. The number of patients who are on oxygen support has also increased. On December 13, there were 44 patients who were on oxygen support which have gone up to 57 by Tuesday.According to the report by the district health officer, in Pune city among the active patients, 707 are in home isolation. During the second wave, the demand for oxygen and ventilator beds had reached a record high but Covid-19 care centres had remained empty with mild or asymptomatic patients preferring home isolation.“We have to keep in mind that though the new variant Omicron has emerged, the delta variant which had proved disastrous is still there. In the state as well day by day cases are increasing. The only reason is, people are behaving carelessly and not following norms. Many are without masks at crowded places,” said Avinash Bhondwe, past president, IMA, Maharashtra state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pmc-to-adopt-wait-and-watch-policy-on-reactivation-of-covid-care-centres-101640704501276.html
28-12-2021||Jaipur||Hindus doing politics in name of Hindutva are fake: Gehlot on Dharma Sansad hate speech||Rajasthan chief minister and Congress leader Ashok Gehlot on Tuesday said Hindus who do politics in the name of Hindutva are “fake". His statement was in reference to a Dharma Sansad event held in Uttarakhand wherein speeches inciting violence against Muslims were allegedly made by participants.Stating that former Congress president Rahul Gandhi began the debate on “Hindu versus Hindutva”, Gehlot said there is a need for the country to understand the crux of the matter.“The crux was that on one hand, there is a Hindu whose great values have been there for centuries, whose expressions are of love and brotherhood, and the forces that are indulging in politics in the name of Hindutva, their becoming Hindu is pseudo, they are fake Hindus,” the Rajasthan chief minister was quoted as saying by PTI.Terming the language used during the Dharma Sansad as “shameful”, Gehlot said while he respects saints and that their “saffron clothes” give the message of Indian culture and sacrifice, the words spoken by some of them were “condemnable.”Also Read | Pakistan foreign ministry summons Indian diplomat over Dharma Sansad speechesGehlot further said the Congress rules the heart of every Indian and people who talk of “Congress-mukt (free) Bharat” will themselves become “mukt”. He said India is going through a difficult phase and during such a time, the nation needs the ideology, policy and programmes of the grand old party.Meanwhile, three people have been named as accused in the ongoing probe into the Dharma Sansad case. The case was initially lodged on Thursday night after videos of the three-day event in Haridwar conducted between December 17 and 19, led to an enormous uproar on social media.Uttarakhand director general of police Ashok Kumar has promised legal action against the accused, and said that such events and hate speeches “won't be tolerated” in the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jaipur-news/hindus-doing-politics-in-name-of-hindutva-are-fake-gehlot-on-dharma-sansad-hate-101640696852910.html
28-12-2021||Chandigarh||Come Jan 15, only fully jabbed can enter public places in Punjab||The Punjab government on Tuesday issued an order banning entry of all individuals who are not fully vaccinated against the coronavirus disease at public places from January 15, 2022.The government said the move was taken in view of the rising cases of Covid-19 and the emergent Omicron variant of the virus.It said only fully vaccinated people will be allowed to enter government offices, markets and religious places, use public transport and attend public functions.#COVID19 | Punjab bans entry of not fully vaccinated people from Jan 15 in public places, the official release of the state govt reads pic.twitter.com/h5PvCUEU2ePublic places will include sabzi mandis, grain markets, shopping malls and local markets. Besides, all Punjab government offices, boards and corporations located in Chandigarh will follow the same protocol.According to the latest available reports, Punjab recorded 46 fresh cases of the coronavirus on Monday and a related death.Last week, Haryana imposed a similar ban on unvaccinated people that would be applicable from January 1.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-fully-vaccinated-can-enter-public-places-january-15-101640703001742.html
28-12-2021||Mumbai||BMC to re-evaluate decision on curbs in January||Mumbai With Mumbai recording a steady rise in Covid cases for the past one week, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) on Tuesday said that during the first week of January, it will re-evaluate the restrictions that it has implemented ahead of the Christmas weekend. Meanwhile, Suresh Kakani, additional municipal commissioner, said on Tuesday that the BMC will take a call immediately after January 1 on whether the restrictions would be extended or will be relaxed. Kakani said that the final call about the curbs will be taken after studying a few factors.“For the next one week, we will be recording the overall growth rate in the city, the bed availability in all the hospitals, oxygen requirement and the percentage of patients that are getting hospitalised. We are not anticipating any stringent rules as of now, but we will only get clarity after studying the figures,” said Kakani.He further added that from the last week of December to the first week of January, a lot of people come and go out of India. “The influx of more international patients during this period will also give us a fair idea about the trend of the virus because right now, the figures are only fluctuating,” he said.Earlier this week, state minister of health Rajesh Tope had said that another lockdown will be imposed if the oxygen requirement in Maharashtra touches 800 Metric Tonnes (MT) per day. Kakani mentioned that the BMC is keeping a record of the day-to-day requirement of oxygen in BMC hospitals. He said that when the second wave was at its peak, the maximum oxygen requirement in Mumbai was around 210 MT per day.“At present, the daily requirement is below 100 MT. As per the present infrastructure that we have, BMC is now equipped to fulfil a maximum requirement of 690 MT of oxygen per day and this could be extended up to 1,100 MT per day in case there is any adverse situation,” he said.In the wake of the recent spike in cases in Mumbai and with the increasing number of patients infected with the Omicron variant, the BMC had announced new curbs on December 24. In a circular issued by municipal commissioner Iqbal Singh Chahal, the BMC had banned new year celebrations and parties across the city and have also restricted gathering of more than five people between 9 pm and 6 am at public places. Besides this, the BMC also mandated only 50 per cent occupancy in all the restaurants, pubs and eateries.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/bmc-to-re-evaluate-decision-on-curbs-in-january-101640702580665.html
28-12-2021||Chandigarh||Haryana Cabinet expansion: BJP's Kamal Gupta, JJP's Devender Babli take oath in Khattar govt||Bharatiya Janata Party's Kamal Gupta and Jannayak Janta Party's Devender Singh Babli took oath as ministers in the Haryana Cabinet on Tuesday.This is the second expansion of the Manohar Lal Khattar-led government in Haryana. The first cabinet expansion took place on November 14 this year.In a tweet today, Khattar wrote, "Hearty congratulations and best wishes to Dr Kamal Gupta ji and Devender Babli ji on taking oath of office and secrecy as ministers in the Haryana Council of Ministers. I am sure that you will work continuously for the benefit of the people of the state with transparency and honesty."They were administered the oath to office by Governor Bandaru Dattatreya at a ceremony held at the Raj Bhavan in Chandigarh.In the Haryana Assembly elections in 2019, the BJP emerged as the single-largest party winning 40 seats in the 90-member assembly. Congress finished second with 31 seats. Later, the BJP formed the government with the support of the Jannayak Janta Party (JJP), which bagged 10 seats, and some independent MLAs.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/haryana-cabinet-expansion-bjp-s-kamal-gupta-jjp-s-devender-babli-take-oath-in-khattar-govt-101640701604347.html
28-12-2021||Mumbai||Magistrate court directs MHA to handover Rashmi Shukla pen drive to state in 10 days||MUMBAI: The additional chief metropolitan magistrate (ACMM) court in Mumbai on Tuesday, while allowing the plea filed by Mumbai police’s cyber cell unit, has asked the home secretary, ministry of home affairs, to handover IPS officer Rashmi Shukla’s report and pen-drive within 10 days. The report and pen-drive contain details of private individuals who acted as brokers for facilitating transfers and securing desired postings for senior police officers in exchange for money and by using their political connections. The plea was heard by ACMM Sudhir Bhajipale who was informed that the documents and pen drive are crucial to ascertain who leaked the data and how the data leak occurred. The case is currently registered against unknown persons.At a press conference on March 23, 2021, opposition leader Devendra Fadnavis alleged rampant corruption in transfers and postings of police officers in Maharashtra. He also pointed out certain documents and reports prepared by the then Maharashtra State Intelligence Department (SID) commissioner Rashmi Shukla to support his allegations. He claimed that the state did not act on the report and therefore, he was going to hand over the entire material, including a pen drive, to the ministry of home affairs.The Mumbai cyber cell registered an FIR on March 26 based on the complaint lodged by an assistant commissioner, SID, against unknown persons for leaking a classified report that IPS Rashmi Shukla had prepared and which contained crucial details of some private individuals who acted as brokers for facilitating transfers and securing desired postings for senior police officers in exchange for money and by using their political connections.The August 2020 report also contained the names of six IPS officers and 23 state service officers who were in touch with the brokers. The report mentioned how some transfers took place due to political influence. Police officials claimed that Shukla, the then SID commissioner and presently posted at Hyderabad as additional director general of the Central Reserve Police Force, south zone, copied the report on three pen drives and while two of the three were recovered by the cyber cell, the third one was sent by Fadnavis to the union home secretary. The state government wants the pen drive to ascertain that it is the same third pen drive and verify the leakage. It has already written to the centre several times to handover the pen drive however hasn’t got any response.The cyber cell had told the court through special public prosecutor, Ajay Misar, that the said report was leaked from the SID office. They had also written to opposition leader Devendra Fadnavis to give his statement on the issue and that he was their ‘star witness’ who could give them a lot of information. Rashmi Shukla’s statement in the matter has already been recorded by the SID. Meanwhile advocate Shreeram Shirsath, who appeared for the union home secretary, told the court that the application of the state government is ‘vague and untenable’ and should be dismissed. The state government has failed to maintain which exact documents they want and have mentioned all documents in the plea.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/magistrate-court-directs-mha-to-handover-rashmi-shukla-pen-drive-to-state-in-10-days-101640702040631.html
28-12-2021||Delhi||Delhi's daily Covid-19 tally rises further to 496, highest since June 4||Delhi’s coronavirus disease (Covid-19) tally saw another huge spike, with 496 cases recorded in the last 24 hours, according to the health bulletin on Tuesday. This is the highest daily tally since June 4, when 523 cases were recorded.The positivity rate further increased to 0.89 per cent and one related fatality was recorded, the health bulletin further showed. The total number of Covid-19 cases in Delhi has reached 1,444,179 after today’s spike, while the death toll stands at 25,107.So far, Delhi has recorded nine deaths due to Covid-19 this month, the highest in four months. The national capital recorded five fatalities in September, four in October and seven Covid-linked death in November.The active cases have further increased to 1,612.The national capital’s Covid caseload has been increasing at a rapid pace. On Monday, 331 cases of the infection were added to Delhi’s tally.The positivity rate has been over 0.5 per cent for three straight days now.The rising number of Covid-19 cases prompted the Delhi government to impose strict measures in the national capital under Graded Response Action Plan (GRAP), including banning all the gatherings and limiting the numbed of people in Metro trains and buses.These restrictions are part of the first level of curbs classified as Yellow alert under GRAP and were implemented after chief minister Arvind Kejriwal chaired a review Covid-19 meeting on Tuesday.Schools, colleges, cinemas and gyms have been closed, and shops dealing in non-essential items have been directed to open on odd-even basis as part of the plan.The night curfew will also remain in place from 10pm to 5am.The order has been issued by Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA), which will hold another crucial meeting under the chairmanship of Lieutenant Governor Anil Baijal at 4pm on Wednesday to review the Omicron threat and discuss the Covid-19 pandemic situation in the national capital.The implementation of yellow alert under GRAP and the ongoing vaccination programme will also be reviewed in the meeting, a notice from DDMA said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhis-daily-covid-19-tally-rises-further-to-496-highest-since-june-4-101640701594235.html
28-12-2021||Pune||CMRS concludes inspection of metro track in Pune, lauds Maha-Metro for quality work||PUNE Commissioner of Metro Rail Safety (CMRS) Janak Kumar Garg, on Tuesday, inspected the Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC) to Phugewadi section and five metro stations and expressed satisfaction about work.Garg was in the city between December 2 and December 28 to carry out the inspection of the priority section as Pune Metro is planning to start commercial operations of the metro on the corridor between PCMC to Phugewadi and Vanaz-Garware College.Garg said, “The inspection was successful and Maha-Metro has done quality work.”Officials of Maharashtra Metro Rail Corporation Limited (Maha-Metro), said, “Metro commissioner visited the five metro stations at Phugewadi, Kasarwadi, Bhosari, Sant Tukaram nagar and PCMC and inspected all the amenities provided to commuters.”During the inspection along with metro officials, Garg inspected the provision of the staircase, conducted trials of lifts and escalators, facilities for differently able people, checked the ramps, signages and toilet facilities at metro stations. Fire prevention system, fire alarm, smoke detection, ticketing facility, signalling facility and automated gates were checked.The metro team did the motor trolly inspection of the entire seven-kilometre stretch and checked the tracks, rail welding, curves, viaduct, buffer stops and overhead electrical traction system.Garg was present during the trail run of newly arrived coaches from hill view car depot to Vanaz to Garware.Maha-Metro officials said that as the metro rail commissioner did the extensive inspection, authorisation for the priority section is expected shortly.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/cmrs-concludes-inspection-of-metro-track-in-pune-lauds-maha-metro-for-quality-work-101640700780464.html
28-12-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra to replicate Delhi model to fight air pollution||Mumbai: Mechanical road sweepers, water cannons and anti-smog guns —equipment that is commonly used in India’s capital city to stave off air pollution during winters may soon become regular fixtures in Maharashtra’s non-attainment cities to fight hazardous air quality.Nearly all Urban Local Bodies (ULBs) have proposed the use of these measures as part of their respective action plans to curb air pollution, officials with the Maharashtra Pollution Control Board (MPCB) confirmed.These measures will be funded via the Centre’s National Clean Air Program (NCAP), and using funds allocated to Maharashtra at the recommendation of the 15th Finance Commission to tackle air pollution in non-attainment cities, where pollution levels exceed permissible limits as set out in the National Ambient Air Quality Standards (NAAQS).“Some ULBs, like Navi Mumbai, are already in the tendering process to procure mechanical road sweeping machines using already received NCAP funds. All 25 non-attainment cities and 5 cantonment boards in the state have proposed to use these measures, and the protocol for the same is given in Maharashtra’s Graded Response Action Plan, which ULBs will need to start implementing at the earliest. Water sprinkling, mechanised road sweeping and anti-smog guns will be a routine action when air quality dips,” said a sub-regional officer with the MPCB stationed in the Mumbai Metropolitan Region.While ULBs like the Navi Mumbai Municipal Corporation and the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation are already carrying out mechanised road sweeping to a degree, the machines being used are outdated, officials said. “We are now in the process of procuring two better machines which can have an impact on air quality. Other measures that will be implemented at a ULB level include creating green corridors along roads with heavy traffic volume, and formation of mobile response teams to patrol the city and pick out any GRAP violations,” said Abhijit Bangar, Navi Mumbai municipal commissioner.We had reported, on December 20, the Maharashtra government’s plans to implement an emergency response system, along the lines of Delhi’s graded action plan to combat air pollution. The GRAP is a set of measures that are triggered in phases as air quality deteriorates. For example, when the Air Quality Index (AQI) in Delhi-NCR hits the ‘severe’ category, concerning municipal corporations in Delhi, Haryana and Uttar Pradesh impose bans on polluting activities such as construction, operation of cement mix plants and running diesel generators, and step-up patrolling for open burning.For the state, MPCB has categorised air quality in four stages (from ‘moderate’ to ‘emergency’) based on the daily concentration of particulate matter pollutants PM2.5 and PM10. Activities like water sprinkling, dust sweeping and deployment of anti-smog guns will be put into action when air quality touches the ‘severe’ category for a period of 48 hours, i.e. when PM2.5 levels exceed 215ug/m3 and PM10 exceeds 431ug/m3.“These measures fall entirely under the ‘dust mitigation’ component of city-level action plans. The other components are electrifying public transport, regulating industries and expanding on the state’s air quality monitoring network,” said the MPCB official cited above.Sachin Panwar, an independent air quality expert certified by the Quality Council of India, said, “GRAP has had little efficacy in north Indian states, and dust control measures in particular have shown little to no measurable improvement. The focus must be on controlling pollutants at source.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-to-replicate-delhi-model-to-fight-air-pollution-101640700240276.html
28-12-2021||Delhi||Resident doctors' stir: Delhi Police says no force used as protesters seek apology||The Delhi Police on Tuesday issued a clarification regarding the alleged brutality on resident doctors’ during a protest in the national capital. It said there was no lathi (or baton) charge on protesters. In a press briefing, additional commissioner (Central Range) Suman Goyal said a few policemen were, on the other hand, injured and some of the department’s vehicles were damaged.The protesting doctors, who held a meeting with Union health minister Mansukh Mandaviya earlier in the evening, have demanded an apology over Monday evening’s development.Goyal said, “Some doctors jammed the ITO junction around 9:30am while protesting yesterday. They wanted to march towards the Supreme Court regarding their demands (over delay in NEET-PG counselling) but were stopped.”“ADGP and director general of health services, Nirman Bhawan, came to discuss the demands. But the ITO junction still remained blocked. Protesting doctors again wanted to march towards the SC. As a preventive measure, some doctors were detained,” she said, adding there was no “mishandling and use of force” as claimed by the doctors.Watch | Delhi resident doctors face-off with police over NEET-PG 2021 counsellingThe Federation of Resident Doctors Association (FORDA), representing the protesting doctors, has raised allegations of "police brutality" and called the same a "black day in the history of the medical fraternity". It said peacefully protesting resident doctors were "brutally thrashed, dragged and detained by the cops".Goyal said, “The doctors claimed mishandling and use of force. I would like to clarify that no force/lathi charge was used. Delhi Police has the highest regard for doctors. Few policemen got injured. Some police vehicles were also damaged.”The Delhi Police has registered a first information report (FIR) under several sections for causing obstruction in the duty of police personnel and damaging public property.The protesting doctors are yet to decide on withdrawing their agitation as requested by Mandaviya. They will hold talks among themselves later in the evening to decide on the next course of action.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/resident-doctors-stir-delhi-police-says-no-force-used-as-protesters-seek-apology-101640696533069.html
28-12-2021||Pune||3 pedestrians crushed to death by truck on Pune-Bangalore Highway||PUNE Three pedestrians were killed on Tuesday after a truck hit them and further rammed into other vehicles on the Pune-Bangalore Highway at Narhe area in Pune. The incident took place near the Navale Bridge chowk, which is an accident-prone stretch of the highway.According to officials, the brakes of the truck carrying industrial machinery failed, causing the truck to hurtle in reverse for about one kilometre, due to a steep slope, killing the pedestrians. The speeding truck also hit five other vehicles; however, no injuries were reported. After the incident, the truck driver and his aide fled the spot and police have lodged an FIR against unknown persons in the case.The deceased have been identified as Nitin Chandrakant Dhavale (29), a resident of Shivne; Hemant Yashwant Talale (27) and Chetan Ramesh Solanki (31) both residents of Narhe area. All three of them were standing on the highway to catch their company bus in the morning to go towards Shirval and Satara.As per the information shared by the Sinhgad road police, the heavy vehicle truck (MH 14 GU 9521) carrying industrial material going towards Satara suffered a breakdown on the bypass highway near Swaminarayan Temple at around 5 am. The National Highway Authority of India’s (NHAI) highway rescue team members barricaded the truck as it was halted on the highway and provided help. The cleaner of the truck later brought fuel from a nearby petrol pump and at around 9 am the driver tried to restart the vehicle. But as the truck started, its breaks did not work and suddenly the truck started moving in reverse on the highway.“The truck was speeding in reverse, it first hit two persons who were waiting for their company bus near Bhumkar chowk. Then the truck hit another person near the service road exit towards Narhe. The hit was intense, and all three persons died on the spot. The truck also hit five other vehicles,” said assistant police inspector (API) Prashant Kanse of Sinhgad road police station.The truck driver and his aide fled the accident spot, leaving the truck, which inturn caused traffic jam. Local residents and police officials along with NHAI workers rushed to the spot. The mortal remains of the three persons were taken to Sassoon General Hospital. The police took statements from the people who were travelling in the cars which the truck hit. All five vehicles were towed from the spot and traffic was cleared, said officials.Gautam Harshwardhan an IT professional from Delhi who was heading towards Mahabaleshwar along with his friend said, “We had come to Mumbai and were on our way to Mahabaleshwar when the accident took place. The speeding truck first hit our car, but the car took the entire load on itself and our air bags came out on time, we are lucky to have survived.”Vitthal Chavan, a car owner whose vehicle was damaged in the accident said, “Ours is a tourist vehicle and a newly married couple were travelling with their family. They all escaped unhurt.”Nilesh Bhosale, a nearby resident and an eyewitness said, “I was out for my morning walk when I saw a speeding truck coming in reverse. Everything happened in about 15 seconds. The victims did not get a chance to move out of the way.”Assistant commissioner of police Sunil Pawar said, “The search for the driver and his aide is underway and we have filed an FIR. It is unfortunate that this accident has happened. Statements of the people who were on the spot and car owners have been taken and further investigation is going on.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/3-pedestrians-crushed-to-death-by-truck-on-pune-bangalore-highway-101640699464218.html
28-12-2021||Lucknow||Promotion of ‘mafiawaad’ by previous govts destroyed businesses in UP, says PM||KANPUR Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday launched a scathing attack on the opposition, saying that the previous governments promoted ‘mafiawaad’ to such an extent that it led to the destruction of businesses and industries in the state. “The earlier governments in UP promoted the growth of the tree of mafiawaad so much that all the industries and businesses were destroyed in its shade. Now, Yogiji’s government has brought back the rule of law and order. That’s why investment is also increasing in UP and criminals are going to jail after getting their bail canceled,” he said at a public rally after inaugurating a stretch of Kanpur Metro rail project and the 356-km Bina-Panki multi-product pipeline project at Railway ground in Nirala Nagar here.He said the “double engine government” at the Centre and in Uttar Pradesh was working with double speed, without wasting any time for the development of the state. The PM also took a swipe at the SP over the seizure of ₹196 crore cash from a Kanpur-based businessman and said it was the “achievement and reality” of the opposition party.“Boxes filled with currency notes have tumbled out; I was thinking they (Samajwadi Party) will say that this was also done by us,” he said. “Before 2017, the perfume of corruption that they had sprinkled all over UP is there for everyone to see,” he said without taking any names. Modi said now the opposition was sitting with its mouth shut. “They are not coming forward to take credit for the mountain of currency notes seen by the entire country. This is their achievement and their reality,” he said. “The people of Uttar Pradesh are seeing and understanding everything and hence, they are with those who are working to take the state forward,” emphasised the PM.The PM said that the previous governments in UP used to think they had “won a lottery to loot the state for five years, but the double-engine government today is working with honesty and accountability.”Taking pot shots at the SP without naming the party, he said: “They have a problem with anything we do; be it abolition of triple talaq or women empowerment… they just oppose and claim credit for the work we do.” The PM said before 2014, UP had only 9 km of Metro rail tracks, which had gone up to 90 km in the past seven years. “Before 2014, only five cities in the country had Metro services. Today, it is functional in five cities of Uttar Pradesh and 27 cities have functional Metros across the nation. This has helped the confidence of youth in Tier-II and III cities,” said the PM.Modi added, “For decades, this situation prevailed in our country that one part was developed and the other was left behind. At the level of the states, it is equally important to remove this inequality at the level of society. That is why our government is working on the mantra of Sabka Saath, Sabka Vikas.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/promotion-of-mafiawaad-by-previous-govts-destroyed-businesses-in-up-says-pm-101640697540025.html
28-12-2021||Patna||RJD fires at Nitish Kumar over Bihar prohibition; CJI Ramana’s remarks is ammo||PATNA: Bihar’s lead opposition party, Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD) on Tuesday renewed its attacks on the Nitish Kumar government over the state’s prohibition law after Chief Justice of India NV Ramana recently held up the law as an example of legislation drafted with “lack of foresight”. The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), which is in alliance with Nitish Kumar’s Janata Dal (United), also asked the chief minister to take a relook at the law’s implementation “to make it more effective”.“The chief minister has been shown the mirror by the CJI. His unilateral decision has piled up cases in court. Prohibition has been thrust upon people of Bihar and it has helped the rise of a parallel economy in the state,” said RJD leader Shakti Yadav.“His decision has spelt doom for Bihar,” Yadav said about the law enacted byBihar in 2016 to deliver on the JD(U)’s poll promise in the 2015 state elections.CJI Ramana, delivering the Fifth Late Shri Lavu Venkateswarlu Endowment Lecture on “Indian Judiciary: Challenges of Future” in Andhra Pradesh’s Vijaywada, made a fleeting reference to the prohibition law in Bihar. Referring to Bihar’s prohibition law, the country’s top judge said such laws lead to courts being flooded with cases making dispensation of speedy justice difficult. It appears, he said, that the Bihar legislature has “not been able to make optimum use” of the parliamentary standing committee system to “enhance scrutiny of Bills”.According to Patna high court statistics, the percentage of excise cases among total civil and criminal cases pending before the high court was 19% for the last few years, and rose to 21.75% in 2020 when courts could hold hearings for a limited number of cases due to the Covid pandemic.The impact on subordinate courts is sharper. According to official figures, every fourth case before the lower courts is related to the prohibition law. The highest number of cases, 26,270 were filed in 2019, up from 20,548 in 2018, though it dropped to 12,763 in 2020 and 8,070 in the first five months of 2021, largely due to the impact of the pandemic. In the subordinate courts, 217,000 excise cases have piled up in the last three years, besides, the 230,000 bail cases related to prohibition. The top judge’s observation came just as chief minister Nitish Kumar was halfway through his samaj sudhar yatra (social reforms campaign) designed to mobilise support for his prohibition law and against other social ills such as child marriage and dowry.Kumar has made it clear that the law wasn’t up for a review. On Monday, he called for public shaming of those flouting liquor ban in the state and rejected calls for relaxing the stringent prohibition law for those coming to the state from elsewhere.RJD national vice-president Shivanand Tiwary who was excise and prohibition minister of Bihar in 2000-2005 in the Rabri Devi-led RJD government, said that he is worried for Bihar chief minister Nitish Kumar.Tiwary said the chief minister’s approach to prohibition “is not a sign of a healthy mindset. As per the government data, 2.5 to 3 lakh cases related to liquor are pending in courts. The CJI’s comments are in the light of this.”The BJP, which has been asking for a policy review, also waded into the back-and-forth between the opposition and Nitish Kumar’s party.“The very fact that liquor is being seized every day shows that it is still being sold, and points to loopholes in the system. This means that the administration is not implementing it properly and some want the whole exercise to fail. The entire thing needs to be reviewed by taking all people concerned in confidence,” said BJP spokesperson Prem Ranjan Patel. HAM-S, another alliance partner of the JD (U) has also been advocating for changes in prohibition law.
28-12-2021||Noida||Missing girl child found dead in under-construction Noida building||A three-year-old girl, who had gone missing from her home four days ago, was found dead in an under-construction building in Noida on Tuesday, police said.The body bears injury marks and has been sent for post-mortem while an investigation has also been launched in the case, Gautam Buddh Nagar's deputy commissioner of police (Women and Child Safety) Vrinda Shukla said.“The girl lived here with her grandmother. Her father is lodged in a jail since last two years in a criminal case while her mother stays in Budaun district as the couple had a dispute regarding the custody of the girl,” Shukla said.The child's grandmother had approached the local Phase-2 police station on December 25, stating that the three-year-old girl had gone missing, according to officials.An FIR was immediately filed and searches carried out by multiple police teams, including one which went to the home of her maternal grandparents in Budaun, the officials said.“In pursuance of the case, the local police were alerted by the girl's relatives on Tuesday about presence of a young girl's body in an under-construction building near Ilahabas village,” DCP Shukla said.“The police checked the building and found the body, which bore some injury marks. The body has been sent for post mortem and further legal proceedings would be carried out accordingly,” she added.The police have detained some suspects for questioning, the officer said, adding further investigation is underway.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/missing-girl-child-found-dead-in-under-construction-noida-building-101640694678766.html
28-12-2021||Delhi||Sadbhavna, a Delhi Police scheme that reaches out to the vulnerable||NEW DELHI: When 26-year-old Rinki Chauhan, a post-graduate in Sociology and the wife of a factory worker in the Bawana industrial area, came to Delhi in 2017 with her husband to earn a living, she found that many children in their neighbourhood were not going to school and spent their time playing near a canal or swimming in it, risking their lives.
28-12-2021||Lucknow||Amit Shah flags income tax raids to target SP; Akhilesh responds||LUCKNOW Income tax raids, first on leaders of opposition Samajwadi Party (SP) and later on the premises of Kannauj-based businessman from where substantial amount of cash was unearthed, have now become a full-blown election issue in Uttar Pradesh (UP) with Union home minister Amit Shah and Samajwadi Party chief Akhilesh Yadav both raising the issue to target each other. Attending the Bharatiya Janata Party’s (BJP) ‘Jan Vishwas Yatra’ in Hardoi, Shah, in the presence of former Congress leader Jitin Prasada and former Samajwadi Party heavyweight Naresh Agarwal, hit out at the Congress and BSP, and claimed the SP had got its ‘ABCD’ all wrong before flagging the I-T raids, which he claimed had caused ‘pait mein machlan (stomach ache)’ to SP chief Akhilesh Yadav. “The SP’s ABCD went thus: A meant ‘apraadh aur aatank’ (crime and terror), B meant ‘bhai-bhatijawad’ (nepotism), C meant corruption and D meant ‘danga’ (riots). But the BJP has now changed all that,” Shah said, adding that just as an expert batsman puts a full toss away, the BJP too will win the 2022 UP polls handsomely. Shah also spoke of how Ayodhya temple became a reality under the BJP and Prime Minister Narendra Modi, how ‘Advaniji (party veteran and former deputy Prime Minister LK Advani) had set out on a rath yatra for the temple cause. He also spoke of how “SP, BSP and Congress tried to stall temple construction.” But, his repeated mention of I-T raids indicated the BJP’s plan to corner the SP on the issue. “I-T raids had started giving stomach ache to bhai (brother) Akhilesh who questioned the exercise and described them as a result of ‘rajnitik dwesh’ (political bitterness). But today, he is lost for words as ₹250 crore cash has been recovered from the person who made ‘Samajwadi itra’ (Samajwadi perfume). Has anyone seen as much cash in their lifetime? Tell me, whose money was it? It’s the money of UP’s poor that has been unearthed from this perfumer,” said Shah. “Akhileshji don’t try to scare us. Before coming to power, Modiji (Prime Minister Narendra Modi) had made it clear that the BJP would end corruption and wipe out black money. Today, when I-T raids are being carried out, Akhileshji is getting stomach ache. But I have come here to tell you that under the BJP government there is no place for the corrupt,” added Shah. Shah’s prolonged reference to the cash recovery from the Kannauj perfumer came shortly after Akhilesh denied his party’s relationship with the Kannauj perfumer Piyush Jain (who has now been arrested for recovery of substantial cash and massive tax evasion). Yadav’s comments came during his party’s ‘Vijay Rath Yatra’ in Unnao. “They are now wrongly claiming the businessman’s link with us. If the tax agency reveals details, his connection with several BJP people will surface. I am thankful to the media that even those who were earlier linking the businessman to us, had by afternoon, (of the raids) corrected themselves. The raids weren’t intended at Piyush Jain, but at Pushpraj Jain. Due to some confusion, the BJP perhaps ended up getting their own businessman raided,” said Akhilesh. Pushpraj (Pampi Jain), whom Akhilesh referred to, is the SP MLC who had launched the Samajwadi itra (perfume) in Lucknow in November and who lives in the same Chipatta locality of Kannauj as Piyush Jain. Pampi denied reports that he had launched the perfume with the help of Piyush, but the BJP was claiming a connection. Chief minister Yogi Adityanath too had been raising the issue of I-T raids to target the SP, whose chief Akhilesh, accused the BJP and its leaders of being experts at lying. In 80 hours of searches at four houses of businessman Piyush Jain, a team of officials found 23 kg of gold, ₹17 crore cash and 600 kg illegally procured sandalwood stored in one of the houses in Kannauj, the directorate of GST intelligence (DGGI) had said in a statement on Monday. The sandalwood was worth ₹6 crore. Jain had been sent to 14 days of judicial custody. These recoveries were apart from ₹177.45 crore in cash recovered from Piyush Jain’s premises during another raid. Before Jain was raided, I-T teams had carried out raids on some leaders of the Samajwadi Party, including party’s national spokesman Rajiv Rai. The BJP and the SP had earlier used cartoons to spar at each other over I-T raids.
28-12-2021||Gurugram||BJP leaders to mark Azad Hind Fauj’s victory in Andaman||A delegation of 129 BJP leaders from Haryana will leave for Andaman and Nicobar Islands on Tuesday, to commemorate the victory of Azad Hind Fauj, which liberated the islands from British rule on December 30, 1943, said senior party leaders on Monday.Haryana BJP president Om Prakash Dhankhar, while addressing a press conference in Gurugram, said that the delegation will visit Cellular Jail, Viper Island and Flat Point -- which are closely connected to the Indian freedom movement -- at the islands on Tuesday. “Many in the country were not educated about the great achievements by the Azad Hind Fauj on December 30, 1943, when it freed the islands. The BJP delegation will visit the same spot, and sing the national anthem to observe the day,” Dhankhar said. The BJP president also said that the “party will make Indians aware of acts of patriotism and sacrifices”, which have not been revealed to the public yet. GL Sharma, vice president of Haryana BJP, said that after visiting Andaman and Nicobar Islands, the party functionaries will visit Hussainiwala and Jallianwala to ensure that “stories of sacrifices made by our freedom fighters are spread to every nook and corner of the state and the country”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/bjp-leaders-to-mark-azad-hind-fauj-s-victory-in-andaman-101640693039565.html
28-12-2021||Pune||Tata, Siemens join hands to develop Hinjewadi-Shivajinagar Metro corridor||PUNE A joint venture between TRIL Urban Transport Private Limited (a Tata Group company) and Siemens Project Ventures GmbH (a subsidiary of Siemens Financial Services) under a public-private partnership route (PPP) will develop the metro corridor from Hinjewadi to Shivajinagar. The joint venture has formed a special purpose company called Pune IT City Metro Rail Limited. The elevated metro line connects Hinjewadi Rajiv Gandhi Infotech Park to Shivajinagar via Balewadi. The 23.3 km corridor with 23 stations will be the first metro project in India under the new metro rail policy. The project is to be completed in 39 months. Siemens Limited is a part of the consortium that will provide project management, turnkey electrification, signalling, communications and depot works (equipment) for this prestigious project. The order size of Siemens Limited is to the extent of Rs900 crore (approximately). Sunil Mathur, managing director and chief executive officer, Siemens Limited, said, “We would like to thank the Pune Metropolitan Region Development Authority for awarding the project to us.” “Pune Metro is a prestigious project, and Siemens is glad to be partnering with the Tatas to jointly develop the project. We are confident that the new metro line will play a key role in positively impacting the quality of life of Pune’s citizens to transform their every day,” he said. Work for the project started officially in November (this year), almost four years after the foundation stone was laid. The corridor will connect Maan, near the Hinjewadi IT park, to the civil court in Shivajinagar. Officials said it would take 40 minutes to complete the end-to-end commute on the route, which will comprise 23 stations.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/tata-siemens-join-hands-to-develop-hinjewadi-shivajinagar-metro-corridor-101640692679373.html
28-12-2021||Delhi||Delhi Covid-19 curbs: New Metro guidelines commuters must know||The Delhi government on Tuesday announced a series of curbs in the national capital in the wake of rising coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases. The caseload has risen due to the rapid spread of the Omicron variant of Sars-CoV-2 virus.The restrictions announced by the Arvind Kejriwal-led Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) government includes closure of gym, yoga studios, spa and other places where gatherings can take place and reducing the number of employees going to the office.The restrictions will also impact those who use Delhi Metro to travel to their offices or other places. The Delhi Metro Rail Corporation (DMRC) has also been asked to reduce the number of passengers in a coach.According to the new guidelines that have been issued by Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA), Metro trains have to run at 50 per cent seating capacity. No standing passengers will be allowed in the trains, the order further said."At the same time, buses going from one state to another will run with 50 per cent seating capacity, while only two passengers will be allowed to travel in auto, e-rickshaw, taxi and cycle rickshaws," the order further said.After the new guidelines were announced, the DMRC said in a statement that out of 712 metro gates, only 444 will be kept open.The restrictions that have been put in place by the Delhi government from today are under the first level of the graded response force (GRAP) - yellow alert. If the Covid-19 situation deteriorates further, the second level (amber alert) will come into effect, which will reduce the seating capacity further to 33 per cent, as per GRAP framework decided in July.The DDMA had in November allowed standing passengers in each Metro coach, along with 100 per cent seating capacity, as a measure to boost the use of public transport in light of the hazardous air pollution levels in the national capital.The coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic had majorly affected operations of the Delhi Metro.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-covid-19-curbs-new-metro-guidelines-commuters-must-know-101640692454900.html
28-12-2021||Pune||NDA pays homage to fallen alumni- Wing Commander Harshit Sinha||PUNE A wreath laying ceremony was organised at the Hut of Remembrance at National Defence Academy on 28 December 2021 in memory of Wing Commander Harshit Sinha, who died in a tragic flying accident during a training sortie onboard MIG-21 on December 24, 2021 in Jaisalmer, Rajasthan.Air Marshal Sanjeev Kapoor AVSM VM, Commandant, NDA paid homage to the brave heart in a solemn ceremony on behalf of the NDA fraternity. All key officials of the Academy were present to pay their last respect to the departed soul. Wing Commander Harshit Sinha was an alumnus of 104th NDA Course, Oscar Squadron.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/nda-pays-homage-to-fallen-alumni-wing-commander-harshit-sinha-101640691425068.html
28-12-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh MC elections: AAP alleges horse-trading by BJP||A day after the Chandigarh municipal corporation election results were announced, the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) has alleged that the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) is indulging in horse trading. Also read: Personnel deployed in poll-bound states to be eligible for precaution dose: GovtNo party got a clear majority of 19 seats in the 35-member House, the AAP emerged as the single largest party with 14 seats, the BJP a close second with 12 seats, the Congress with eight seats and the Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) with one seat. With the Chandigarh MP also having one vote in the House, the incumbent MP being Kirron Kher from the BJP, technically, the party has 13 votes. Addressing a press conference at the AAP office in Sector 39 on Tuesday, AAP Punjab co-incharge Raghav Chadha said, “The BJP leaders called up and visited three of our 14 councillors. They offered one of them ₹75 lakh, and two others ₹50 lakh each to join their party. The BJP leaders told the councillors that they will fix their meeting with BJP national president JP Nadda and Union home minister Amit Shah.” “We have decided to install CCTV cameras at each councillor’s house, and have also told them to put all calls on record. So that if the BJP again tries to contact them then we will have evidence,” said Chadha. When asked why the AAP didn’t contact the police, Chadha said, “We first decided to inform the public. We will go to the police and the Election Commission on this issue.” On the choice of its mayoral candidate, Chadha said, “Party supremo Arvind Kejriwal will come to Chandigarh before this month-end and meet the newly elected councillors, and decide on the mayor candidate. The AAP will make the new mayor of the Chandigarh MC.” AAP allegations baseless: BJP Terming the AAP’s allegations as “lies and baseless”, Chandigarh BJP president Arun Sood said, “The AAP is making these fraudulent claims because it is itself actively trying to buy councillors from other parties. Where is the proof for such frivolous allegations; nowadays, everybody has recording in phones, why doesn’t the AAP release those recordings? An AAP leader said they will have an AAP mayor. How are they so sure when they don’t have the requisite numbers? Is it because they are indulging in horse trading with money they have brought from foreign countries?” Sood on Monday had said that the BJP would put up its candidate for the mayoral post and appeal to the people to elect its candidate. “We will not align with anybody or pursue other parties’ councillors. We will only appeal to councillors if they want stable and development-oriented governance, they should opt for the BJP candidate.” Chadha said that the AAP was not in negotiations with any councillor of other parties for the mayoral election.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-mc-elections-aap-alleges-horse-trading-by-bjp-101640691119554.html
28-12-2021||Delhi||DDA repackages Narela to find buyers for homes it built||NEW DELHI: A Metro corridor, improved road connectivity, a sports complex, central government schools, and hospitals are some of the provisions proposed in Narela by the Delhi Development Authority (DDA) in its new housing scheme launched last week.
28-12-2021||Pune||Civic Sanskriti: Looking back, looking forward to best things that happened in Pune for sustainability||I asked a few people what they thought were the best things that happened in Pune for sustainability, looking back at the year gone by. On the mobility front, Sujit Patwardhan, founder, Parisar, said that “street designs favouring walking and cycling are emerging in different neighbourhoods. But the good work happening is about 10%, while unsustainable works continue. Yet, there are nudges for change in thinking, which will hopefully become visible in the years to come. For example, the need for a structured approach to air quality improvement under the National Clean Air Programme, and recognition of pedestrian rights. But until a breakthrough happens, it can end in all talk and no action”. Transport planner Pranjali Deshpande too appreciated the Pedestrians’ Day and Laxmi Road Pedestrian Plaza organised on December 11 by the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) and the collaboration with civil society groups to make it a success. Mangesh Dighe, environment officer, PMC, noted that despite the challenges for environmental improvement, Pune recently achieved the landmark of 1.5 crore kilometres of electric bus operations. This is indeed a good beginning. In the coming years, the proportion of renewable energy used for public transport (and all energy use) should go up. For Shailaja Deshpande, director, Jeevit Nadi, “the awareness and willingness towards protecting natural resources that have arisen among citizens is the most sustainable outcome as it is not driven by narrow political agenda. People are more concerned about health, hygiene and sustainable development, and not just development. People have voiced their opposition to amenity spaces privatisation, tree-felling, hill cutting, against straightening stream courses, lack of services and refusing to pay PMC taxes as a mark of protest. They have shown vigilance against illegal sand mining even at the risk of their lives.” On the other hand, Vaishali Patkar of Aundh Vikas Mandal feels that “the members of the public who engage with issues are heroes. But only a handful of people speaking doesn’t show results at the scale and urgency needed. If municipal administrators could be more inclusive of citizens, NGOs, and experts, things could change”. It was amazing that Pune Municipal Corporation showed an increase in tax collection as the financial year closed in March. Healthcare infrastructure, including municipal health facilities, became stronger. Yet, though businesses and work are slowly looking up (with the threat of Omicron hanging over us), the structural weaknesses, especially in social protection measures for informal workers and the urban poor, showed up starkly. Through the most difficult months of illness and lockdowns, we realised that the wellbeing of society is dependent on the wellbeing of all segments. Will such learning stay with us? Will the aspirants in the upcoming local body elections make inclusive development their core promise? Let’s see. On a crucial front, Avinash Madhale, programme coordinator of Community-Led Action Learning and Partnership (CLAP) says, “while there has been such a setback to school education, some teachers and institutions have made an extra effort to run bridge classes and bring children back to school.” Over the last several months, a few organisations involved in schooling for vulnerable groups have been running bridge classes and trying to maintain the connection to the school. Let’s hope that the reduction in enrolment, disruption in learning, and the support children need can be addressed in the coming months, though it is likely to need a large societal effort. For Gurudas Nulkar, from Ecological Society, the most interesting to observe is that “for at least a very small population, there has been the shocking revelation that a microscopic predator can conquer us; that organic food matters, immunity matters, biodiversity matters.” With that humbling thought and the hope for much great collaboration for sustainability between citizens and the government, best wishes to you dear readers, for the last week of 2021, and for a brighter new year. Sanskriti Menon is senior programme director, Centre for Environment Education. She writes on urban sustainability and participatory governance. Views are personal. She can be reached at civic.sanskriti@gmail.com||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/civic-sanskriti-looking-back-looking-forward-to-best-things-that-happened-in-pune-for-sustainability-101640688719441.html
28-12-2021||Delhi||Delhi under strict Covid curbs as yellow alert kicks in: Full list||The Delhi government on Tuesday imposed stricter curbs due to the rise of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases in the wake of the spread of the Omicron variant. Announcing the curbs, chief minister Arvind Kejriwal said that this is Level-1 (yellow alert) of the Graded Response Action Plan (GRAP).“It was written in GRAP that if the infection rate is more than 0.5 per cent, then the yellow level will be applicable," Kejriwal said at a press conference after chairing a Covid-19 review meeting. No weekend curfew has been imposed.The order comes amid a spike in the number of Covid-19 cases in the national capital. On Monday, Delhi reported 331 fresh Covid-19 cases, the highest single-day spike since the last six months. On June 6, Delhi had reported 331 cases.In the meeting of the Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) held on July 9, 2021, the Delhi government had approved GRAP.Here is the complete list of curbs announced by the Delhi government under GRAP:• There shall be night curfew on movement of persons during 10pm to 5am throughout the NCT of Delhi.• Schools, cinemas, gyms, auditoriums, assembly halls, spas, yoga institutes, amusement and water parks have been shut in Delhi. Only outside yoga activities are allowed. Barber shops and salons are open.• Sports complexes, except those being used for training sportspersons for participation in national/international events, are closed. And so are swimming pools (those training the athletes are allowed).• Shops in malls to operate on odd-even basis. In weekly markets, strict compliance of prescribed Standard Operating Procedures (SOPs), like wearing of masks etc, has been made mandatory.• Only one authorised weekly market (upto the limit of 50% of the allowed vendors at normal time) per day per zone in all three municipal corporations/NDMC/Delhi Cantt Board shall be allowed.• In market and market complexes, shops are allowed between 10am to 8pm on odd-even basis – establishments will open on alternate days depending on shop numbers.• All standalone (single) shops neighbourhood (colony) shops and shops in residential complex are allowed between 10am and 8pm without restriction of odd-even.• Metro trains and buses will operate at 50 per cent of seating capacity with no standing passengers.• Restaurants allowed with 50% of seating capacity from 8am to 10pm. Bars allowed with 50% of seating capacity from 12 noon to 10pm.• Hotels and lodges to open with condition that no banquets/conferences are allowed. Room occupancy as well as room services to in-house guests is allowed.• Private offices to function upto 50 per cent of staff attendance between 9am to 5pm (offices falling under exempted category allowed to function with 100% attendance).• For weddings, 20 people allowed with restriction that marriage to be organised in court or at home only. In case of funeral related gatherings, only 20 people allowed.• Inter-state movement of buses allowed but only with 50% of seating capacity for transportation of only exempted/allowed category including medical emergencies. No standing passengers allowed.• Autorickshaw/e-rickshaws/cycle rickshaws: Allowed with upto two passengers. Five passengers allowed in Maxi Bab and 11 in RTVs.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-under-strict-covid-curbs-as-yellow-alert-kicks-in-full-list-101640686712804.html
28-12-2021||Lucknow||ECI officials in UP to review election preparations||Lucknow: Chief election commissioner Sushil Chandra, election commissioners Rajiv Kumar, Anup Chandra Pandey, and other top Election Commission of India (ECI) officials arrived in Lucknow on Tuesday for a three-day visit to review the preparations for the Uttar Pradesh assembly elections. They will hold a series of meetings until Thursday.ECI principal secretary (protocol) Rahul Sharma said the commission will Tuesday hold a meeting with the representatives of national and recognised political parties. Delegations of the Samajwadi Party, Congress, the Bharatiya Janata Party, the Bahujan Samaj Party will meet the top ECI officials.Chief electoral officer (Uttar Pradesh) Ajay Kumar Shukla, state police, and central paramilitary forces’ nodal officers will later meet them. There will be a separate meeting with the officers of enforcement agencies on Tuesday. On Wednesday, the ECI officials will hold a meeting with divisional commissioners, district electoral officers, commissioners, inspectors general, and superintendents of police of all 75 districts.The officials will hold a meeting with the chief secretary and the director-general of police on Thursday before addressing a press conference, Sharma said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/eci-officials-in-up-to-review-election-preparations-101640685059234.html
28-12-2021||Mumbai||Fire breaks out in Mumbai building; 5 people suffer from suffocation||A fire broke out in a seven-storey residential building in Mumbai on Tuesday, following which at least five persons suffered from suffocation and were hospitalised, an official said. The blaze erupted around 9 am in the electric meter room of the building of Maharashtra Housing and Area Development Authority (MHADA) at Jankalyan Nagar in suburban Kandivali, he said. Soon, smoke engulfed the whole building due to which some residents got trapped inside and on its terrace, the official said. Fire brigade officials with three vehicles, police and ambulance rushed to the spot and started the rescue operation. Around 40 people were rescued from the building. Five of them got suffocated and were sent to hospital where they were reported to be in stable condition, the official said. The fire was doused by around 11 am, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/fire-breaks-out-in-mumbai-building-5-people-suffer-from-suffocation-101640684682032.html
28-12-2021||Ranchi||Jharkhand reports spike in Covid-19 cases with 138 new infections||RANCHI: Jharkhand reported 138 Covid-19 cases on Monday amid concerns over the new variant of the disease even as the state is yet to report any Omicron infection, the state government said. The state reported over 100 cases for the first time since June 25.Koderma district reported the highest -- 63 cases -- on Monday followed by Ranchi (38). The Covid-19 cases began dipping in the state from June 25 until earlier this month when the state started reporting over 50 cases from December 22.There were 94 active cases in the state on December 1. The number spiked to 477 on December 27. A majority of the new cases have been reported in the state over the last week.Chief minister Hemant Soren told reporters that the government was watching the developments closely and will accordingly decide whether restrictions should be imposed ahead of the New Year celebrations.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ranchi-news/jharkhand-reports-spike-in-covid-19-cases-with-138-new-infections-101640684706854.html
28-12-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab elections: Two Congress MLAs Fateh Jung Bajwa, Laddi join BJP||In a jolt to the Punjab Congress, two of its sitting MLAs Fateh Jung Bajwa from Qadian and Balwinder Singh Laddi from Shri Hargobindpur joined the Bharatiya Janata Party in New Delhi on Tuesday. Also read: ‘On CM face, Congress high command will have to honour merit’Fateh Jung is the brother of former Punjab Congress chief and Rajya Sabha MP Partap Singh Bajwa. Laddi also belongs to the Bajwa camp. Both joined the BJP in the presence of the party’s Punjab election in-charge and Union minister Gajendra Singh Shekhawat. Interestingly, Punjab Pradesh Congress Committee chief Navjot Singh Sidhu had strongly backed the candidature of both these MLAs at political rallies held last week. Fateh Jung was upset after elder brother Partap’s announcement of contesting the assembly elections from Qadian. It was amid this tussle with Partap that Sidhu had backed Fateh Jung’s candidature. Both Fateh Jung and Laddi are first-time MLAs. Former cricketer Dinesh Mongia and three-time Shiromani Akali Dal MLA from Baluana Gurtej Singh Gudhiyana were inducted into the BJP ahead of the assembly elections. Former Sangrur MP Rajdev Khalsa, United Christian Front Punjab president Kamal Bakshi, Nihal Singh Wala municipal corporation member Jagdeep Singh Dhaliwal and retired ADC and advocate in the Punjab and Haryana high court Madhumeet also joined the BJP. 
28-12-2021||Delhi||Delhi sounds ‘yellow alert’, more curbs to kick in as fears over Omicron grow||NEW DELHI: The Delhi government on Tuesday sounded a “yellow alert” under the first phase of the Graded Response Action Plan (GRAP) to impose curbs in a phased manner to check the spread of Covid-19. The details of the restrictions will be shared by the government later in the day.The alert was sounded after chief minister Arvind Kejriwal reviewed the Covid-19 situation in the Capital and discussed with top officials whether more curbs needed to be implemented to check rising cases.“The curbs explained under GRAP’s yellow alert will be imposed by the local authorities only after the DDMA (Department Of Delhi Disaster Management Authority) issues an order specifying all the curbs and the date from which they will be imposed. Only after the DDMA order is out, the authorities will enforce the restrictions,” said an official, who did not want to be named.Under the Yellow Alert, only 50% of the seating capacity of a coach is allowed on the Delhi Metro, and passengers are barred from standing. Only two passengers are allowed in cabs and auto and rickshaws. Educational institutions are closed and private offices are permitted only 50% attendance. The alert also provides for the closure of cinemas and gyms while markets can be allowed to operate on an odd-even basis between 8am to 10pm. Restaurants, bars, malls, etc will have to shut by 10 pm. Only one weekly market per zone with 50% of vendors is allowed.At a press conference, Kejriwal said there is no need to panic because most Covid cases are mild and asymptomatic. “(The) government is more prepared than before to deal with any Covid surge.”The government earlier imposed a night curfew from 11 pm to 5 am and barred all non-essential movement.Delhi’s Covid positivity rate has been above 0.5% for three consecutive days. As many as 331 cases with 0.68% positivity were reported on Monday, deepening concerns.The lowest Yellow Alert comes into force when the positivity rate breaches the 0.5% mark and stays above it for two consecutive days. The highest level of alert is classified as Red Alert. It comes into force if the 5% positivity rate is breached and stays above that for two consecutive days.The number of active cases has now surpassed 1,300. As of Monday, 266 Covid-19 patients were admitted to hospitals.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-sounds-yellow-alert-more-curbs-to-kick-in-as-fears-over-omicron-grow-101640681039145.html
28-12-2021||Mumbai||Covid hits Maharashtra assembly; dozens test positive, including two ministers||MUMBAI: Covid-19 has marred the Maharashtra assembly’s winter session as at least 55 people, including two ministers, House staffers, police personnel, and journalists covering the proceedings have tested positive for the coronavirus disease. Ministers Varsha Gaikwad, K C Padavi, and Bharatiya Janata Party lawmaker Sameer Meghe are among those who have tested positive.“I learned today (Tuesday) that I tested positive for Covid-19 after getting symptoms yesterday (Monday) evening. My symptoms are relatively mild. I am fine and have isolated myself. Request those who met me over the past few days to take precautions,” Gaikwad tweeted.Over 2,300 people were tested for the disease at a camp set up for those attending or covering the session over the weekend. The Winter Session is due to end on Tuesday. It was curtailed to five days in view of a surge in the Covid-19 cases. The number of active cases crossed the 10,000-mark on Monday after dropping to 6,200 three weeks earlier. The government has also imposed a night curfew across Maharashtra to control the surge.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/covid-hits-maharashtra-assembly-dozens-test-positive-including-two-ministers-101640680438963.html
28-12-2021||Delhi||‘Yellow alert to be enforced in Delhi amid rising Covid cases': CM Kejriwal||Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal announced on Tuesday a yellow alert or level 1 of the Graded Response Action Plan (GRAP) will be imposed in the Capital after the positivity rate stayed over 0.5 per cent for two consecutive days."A complete order with details on restricted and exempted activities will follow," the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) leader also said in the virtual briefing as he urged people to follow Covid-19 protocols.The 'yellow' alert involves restrictions like night curfew, closure of schools and colleges, alternate day opening of shops of non-essential items and halved seating capacity in Metro trains and public transport buses among others.“The curbs explained under GRAP's 'Yellow Alert' will be imposed by the local authorities only after the DDMA issues an order specifying all the curbs and the date from which they will be imposed," the chief minister. “Only after the DDMA order is out, the authorities will enforce the restrictions," he added.During the briefing, Kejriwal also stated there is no need to panic because most Covid--19 cases are mild and asymptomatic. “The AAP government is more prepared than before to deal with any Covid surge," he said.The city is already under night lockdown restrictions since Monday. It remains in effect from 11pm to 5am, till further orders.The announcement follows a high-level meeting of senior officials, which was chaired by Kejriwal to review the Covid-19 situation in the city. The officials also held the meeting in the backdrop of the rising cases of the Omicron variant of the coronavirus.There are 165 Omicron cases in the national capital just after Maharashtra’s 167, according to the Union ministry of health and family welfare on Tuesday.On Monday, Delhi recorded 331 fresh Covid-19 cases, the highest single-day rise since June 9, and one died while the positivity rate mounted to 0.68 per cent, according to the daily health bulletin by the city health department.The positivity rate stood at 0.55 per cent on Sunday even as the number of daily Covid-19 cases was at 290, according to official figures.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/yellow-alert-to-be-enforced-in-delhi-amid-rising-covid-cases-cm-kejriwal-101640677864766.html
28-12-2021||Chandigarh||AAP releases 5th list of candidates, names Charanjit Singh from Punjab CM's Chamkaur Sahib seat||The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) on Tuesday released the fifth list of candidates for the crucial Punjab assembly elections slated to be held in 2022, taking the number of nominees to 88 so far.The list names 15 candidates nominated from several important seats in Punjab, including Bathinda Urban, Amargarh, Dera Baba Nanak, Ludhiana South, Firozpur City and Jalandhar West among others.Some prominent names include that of Dr Charanjit Singh and he will be contesting from Punjab's Sri Chamkaur Sahib constituency, which is Punjab chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi's seat.Other prominent candidates are Gurdeep Singh Randhawa, who will be fighting polls from the Dera Baba Nanak seat, Kulwant Singh from SAS Nagar and Baldev Singh Meadian from Raja Sansi.Dera Baba Nanak - Gurdeep Singh RandhawaRaja Sansi - Baldev Singh MeadianKapurthala - Manju RanaShahkot - Rattan Singh KakarkalanJalandhar West - Sheetal AnguralAdampur - Jeet Lal BhaatiBanga - Kuljit Singh SarghalSri Chamkaur Sahib - Dr Charanjit SinghSAS Nagar - Kulwant SinghBassi Pathana - Rupinder Singh HappyLudhiana South - Rajinder Pal Kaur ChhinaFirozpur City - Ranveer Singh BhullarBathinda Urban - Jagroop Singh GillAmargarh - Jaswant Singh GajjanmajraNabha - Gurdev Singh Dev MannOn December 26, the Arvind Kejriwal-led AAP released its fourth list of 15 candidates for the Punjab assembly elections. As per the list, Kuljit Singh Randhawa will be contesting from the Dera Bassi assembly seat, Narinder Kaur Bharaj from the Sangrur seat and Vijay Singla is the party’s nominee from the Mansa assembly constituency.The previous list included the names of Sajjan Singh Cheema for Sultanpur Lodhi seat, Principal Prem Kumar from Phillaur, Pandit and Brahm Shankar Zimpa from Hoshiarpur among others.Punjab has 117 assembly seats and polls in the state are due early next year. In the 2017 Punjab assembly polls, the AAP emerged as the second-largest party winning 20 seats.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/aap-releases-5th-list-of-candidates-names-charanjit-singh-from-punjab-cm-s-chamkaur-sahib-seat-101640675497020.html
28-12-2021||Lucknow||PM Modi to inaugurate Kanpur Metro. Here’s all about India's fastest built project||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will inaugurate the completed section of the Kanpur Metro Rail Project as he visits the city in poll-bound Uttar Pradesh on Tuesday.Following the inauguration of the project at around 1:30pm, the Prime Minister is also expected to inspect the Metro Rail and take a ride from the IIT Metro station to Geeta Nagar.The inauguration of the Kanpur Metro project comes ahead of the upcoming Uttar Pradesh polls next year and will mark one of the key developmental projects of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) government in the state.Here's all you need to know about the Kanpur Metro Rail project:Kanpur Metro is a 32-km long rail-based mass transit system and is still under construction in Uttar Pradesh's Kanpur.Being built at a cost of over ₹11,000 crore, the Kanpur Metro is going to be the fastest built Metro project in the country.The project aims to tackle traffic woes and congestion in the city.According to reports, two corridors were approved by the government for the project as per the Detailed Project Report (DPR).The first corridor set to be inaugurated on Tuesday is 9-km long and stretches between IIT to Motijheel.According to reports, the first section of the project is expected to open in January 2022.Also read | PM Modi to inaugurate Kanpur Metro stretch, to address students at IITThe construction work of the Kanpur Metro project was started by Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath on November 15, 2019, while the trial run on the 9km stretch from IIT to Motijheel Priority Corridor took place on November 10 this year.Earlier this month, PM Modi inaugurated the first phase of the Kashi Vishwanath Corridor in Uttar Pradesh's ancient holy city of Varanasi. The Phase 1 of the Kashi Vishwanath Corridor was constructed at ₹339 crore and the foundation of the project was laid by Modi on March 8, 2019.In the 2017 Uttar Pradesh assembly election, the BJP come to power in the state with a massive majority of more than 300 of the 403 seats. The party is hoping to retain its power in the state in the upcoming polls.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/pm-modi-to-inaugurate-kanpur-metro-here-s-all-about-india-s-fastest-built-project-101640670883100.html
28-12-2021||Delhi||Arvind Kejriwal calls meeting to review Covid-19 situation||NEW DELHI: Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal called a meeting with top officials on Tuesday to review the Covid-19 situation and discuss if the Capital needs more travel curbs and other restrictions to check the rising number of cases, people aware of the matter said. It comes a day after 331 cases with a 0.68% positivity rate were reported. The administration is deliberating on whether to impose additional restrictions planned under its Graded Response Action Plan (GRAP) as the number of active cases has surpassed 1,300 and the test positivity rate has been over 0.5% for two days. As on Monday, 266 Covid-19 patients were admitted to hospitals.The positivity rate breached one of the thresholds meant to activate stricter curbs such as shutting schools and cinema halls, imposing tighter restrictions on how many people can go to a private office, ride a taxi or take a Metro, and which shops can remain open.Officials aware of the discussions within the government said these restrictions -- part of the first level of curbs classified as Yellow Alert -- have not been taken yet due to economic considerations, but they remain on the table. “The government has already imposed night curfew and restrictions on celebrations have been imposed. A balance needs to be maintained between curbs for Covid management and the employment and economic interests of people,” an official said, asking not to be named.A second official pointed out that most of the Covid-19 beds were unoccupied and the active caseload was 1,300 – below the 1,500 active cases for the Yellow Alert threshold – and the positivity rate was under 1%.Experts said since night curfew and restrictions on celebrations have been imposed, Delhi does not need drastic curbs at this stage.Jugal Kishore, head of the department of community medicine at Safdarjung Hospital, said that with a 0.5% positivity rate, it is too early to implement drastic measures like shutting down schools, cinema halls, etc. “The occupancy of Covid beds is currently negligible. The government should monitor the situation and impose Covid appropriate behaviour among general public strictly which is necessary to check the coronavirus including Omicron spread.”Suneela Garg, a member of the Lancet COVID-19 Commission India Task Force, said since it is not a panic situation yet, no immediate implementation of GRAP is not a cause of worry. “Delhi’s current Covid situation appears to be under control as of now. The government has already imposed a night curfew and banned New Year celebrations to check the spread of coronavirus. Omicron cases are mild and recovery rate is very high, which is why not enforcing GRAP provisions immediately will not lead to long-term harm.”Chamber of Trade and Industry (CTI) chairman Brijesh Goyal said the restrictions under Yellow Alert should not be immediately implemented because the cases for the last seven days are below 1,500 and beds occupancy is very low. “Forty Omicron patients have been cured without oxygen, ICU, steroids, and remdesivir and only five patients have shown minor symptoms. It seems that the situation has not worsened yet,” Goyal said. The CTI appealed to different trade associations to strictly follow Covid-appropriate behaviour.Delhi Gym Association vice president Chirag Sethi said they have approached Lieutenant Governor Anil Baijal and Kejriwal. “The gyms should not be closed under GRAP on the basis of the current Covid positivity rate situation because the industry has already suffered a lot during the past few months. DDMA must also consider the total number of cases and the occupancy of oxygen beds in Delhi before imposing further curbs,” Sethi said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/arvind-kejriwal-calls-meeting-to-review-covid-19-situation-101640670778311.html
28-12-2021||Chandigarh||‘On CM face, Congress high command will have to honour merit’||With the assembly elections just weeks away, another power tussle is brewing within the Punjab Congress on the issue of their chief ministerial face.
28-12-2021||Bangalore||Bengaluru imposes curbs on New Year's Eve celebrations in view of Omicron||Authorities in Karnataka’s Bengaluru have imposed new restrictions on New Year's Eve celebrations given the rapid spread of the Omicron variant of the coronavirus.Bengaluru Police commissioner Kamal Pant said on Monday no public events or gatherings will be allowed on New Year's Eve in the city with the imposition of night curfew across Karnataka from Tuesday.Also Read| Karnataka to observe 10-day night curfew from today amid Omicron crisisTaking to Twitter, Pant uploaded an official order which stated that from Tuesday onwards, all gatherings, meetings, conferences, including marriages “should strictly limit the number of participants to 300 and Covid-appropriate behaviour shall be strictly enforced during the event.”And from Thursday, December 30, till January 2, restaurants, hotels, pubs, clubs are allowed to function with 50% seating capacity in adherence to all Covid-19 protocols.People who have prior bookings will be allowed to visit pubs, hotels, and clubs. 2/2 pic.twitter.com/n99yHyPeB2“All staff members of the said entities to compulsorily possess Covid-19 negative RT-PCR report and will be fully vaccinated with 2 doses of Covid-19 vaccine,” the order also said.Bengaluru Police commissioner Pant also said people who have prior bookings will be allowed to visit pubs, hotels and clubs in the city.The night curfew in Karnataka will be in place for 10 days during which movement of individuals will remain strictly prohibited other than essential activities, patients and their attendants, industries and companies requiring night operations etc.Also Read| Eateries stare at loss after Karnataka steps up Covid curbsThe number of Omicron cases in Karnataka has climbed to 31 and of these, 15 patients have recovered till now, data shows.The state on Monday saw a fall in its daily Covid-19 tally after 289 cases were recorded, which pushed the caseload to 3,004,876. The total active cases in Karnataka stand at 7,449 while recoveries and deaths have climbed to 2,959,082 and 38,316 respectively.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/bengaluru-imposes-curbs-on-new-year-s-eve-celebrations-in-view-of-omicron-101640665885283.html
28-12-2021||Delhi||Curfew is back! Delhiites cancel dinner reservations, curb New Year celebrations||New Year countdowns are almost always the highlight of all parties on December 31. But that won’t be the case this year because the night curfew (11pm to 5am) imposed by Delhi government, starting December 27, has led to change in plans of many party revellers who were wanting to go out to ring in 2022 with friends and family at the stroke of the midnight hour. Although large gatherings have been already prohibited in Delhi-NCR, dinners with intimate family members at eateries will also have to be wound up much before 11pm now. Some Delhiites who were planning to go out have now decided to party at home, with close family members, and have made dinner reservations for a later day in the New Year. Dimple Kumar, a homemaker and blogger from Delhi, says, “We were planning to go out for dinner but have now decided to host a small potluck party at home. There will be just us and our neighbours. It’s time to celebrate but we need to be careful as well. And due to the curfew, no one can travel much so this sounded ideal for the time being.”For the restaurants, such change in plans is going to make another dent in their businesses. Arjun Dawar, owner of Uncultured and One Oak, says: “All our bookings have been cancelled as most people had made reservations from 9pm to 1am. On the New Year, the countdown is the most important. And since that’s not happening, people are now not interested in coming. So we will be allowing walk-ins if any, and will close entry when we reach 50% capacity.” A similar stance is that of Umang Tiwari, owner of Local, Junkyard and Liv Bar. He shares the disappointment since the New Year’s eve plans for his patrons will have to be altered now, and says, “We have cancelled everything as of now. Already we were functioning at 50% capacity, and now there is a timing issue as well. If curfew stars at 11pm, we will have to shut by 10.30pm. So we have no bookings as of now.” And Vidushi Sharma, owner, Mensho Tokyo, adds how they had been inundated with bookings earlier and even came up with two-time slots to ensure social distancing. But now, everything has changed. She informs, “Previously, we were planning to take our last order at 11pm. But owing to an increase in cases and a government imposed night curfew, we will now have to take the last order at around 10 or 10pm, so that people can finish in time and reach home back in time before the curfew begins.” But some Delhiites are not letting this change in plan dampen their spirits as they agree that safety comes first. “New Year is very special for us, and we as a family have planned to get high on music,” says Sonam Upadhyaya, a teacher from Safdarjung Enclave, adding, “This year, we will dedicate the evening to singing and dancing with each other. The women in the house will rest and get pampered as the men will take charge of cooking. And be it the children or the grandparents, everyone will play some musical instrument, and sing along as we enter the New Year. Though we won’t be calling anyone home due to the curfew, but won’t miss the fun of brining in the New Year countdown at home!”Author tweets @anjuriFollow more stories on Facebook and Twitter||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/curfew-is-back-delhiites-cancel-dinner-reservations-curb-new-year-celebrations-101640668559018.html
28-12-2021||Delhi||Delhi govt schools till class 5 to remain closed for winter break from Jan 1-15||Government schools for primary students up to Class 5 in Delhi will remain closed for winter break from January 1 to January 15, according to a circular issued by the directorate of education (DoE)."All the heads of Sarvodaya Vidyalayas are, hereby, informed that the winter break for pre-primary and primary classes shall be observed from January 1-15, 2022 and the online and offline teaching-learning activities through worksheets, shall not be conducted during this period," the DoE said in its circular.The circular, however, said the syllabus of the academic session 2021-22 which has been covered so far, will be revised through assignments during the winter break. The assessment of such assignments or activities must be maintained scrupulously and shall count towards internal assessment, the DoE also said.Teachers of the government schools in Delhi have also been instructed to make note of the strengths and weaknesses of their students to give individual attention once schools reopen.Earlier, the Delhi government allowed students of Class 6 and above to resume offline classes from December 18.Classes were currently being conducted in a hybrid model with both online and offline lectures.According to the Central Pollution Control Board, the hourly Air Quality Index (AQI) at 7am on Tuesday was 249 or in the ‘poor’ category. Overcast weather with light rain or drizzle is expected during the day.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-govt-schools-till-class-5-to-remain-closed-for-winter-break-from-jan-115-101640661762615.html
28-12-2021||Delhi||Delhi’s air quality in ‘poor’ zone; rain expected today||NEW DELHI: Delhi’s air quality was in the “poor” category on Tuesday while overcast weather with light rain or drizzle was expected in the Capital. The India Meteorological Department (IMD) said the minimum temperature was likely to be 10 degrees Celsius and the maximum 21 degrees Celsius. On Monday, the minimum temperature was 10 degrees Celsius and the maximum 23 degrees Celsius.According to the Central Pollution Control Board, the hourly Air Quality Index (AQI) at 7am was 249. On Monday, the average 24-hour AQI was 283 in the “poor” category.An AQI between zero and 50 is considered “good”, 51 and 100 “satisfactory”, 101 and 200 “moderate”, 201 and 300 “poor”, 301 and 400 “very poor”, and 401 and 500 “severe”.On Tuesday, the System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting and Research said the AQI improved due to overnight rain. “On 29th (Wednesday) improvement is expected due to high easterly winds that enhance (the) ventilation of pollutants. Mixing layer height continues to be low (less than 1km) and minimum temperature tends to drop gradually. The net effect is that AQI remains to be within ‘very Poor’ till 31st (December) and from 1st (January) onwards, it is likely to improve to ‘poor’.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhis-air-quality-in-poor-zone-rain-expected-today-101640660877457.html
28-12-2021||Uttarakhand||BJP chief Nadda to begin 2-day visit to poll-bound Uttarakhand from today||Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) national president JP Nadda will begin his two-day visit to Uttarakhand on Tuesday, his third trip to the hill state this month, to review preparations for the assembly elections, which are scheduled to be held next year.“BJP president JP Nadda will go on a two-day tour on December 28-29 to take stock of the election preparations in Uttarakhand. During his visit, JP Nadda will also review the preparations made by BJP in the state so far,” people familiar with the matter told news agency ANI earlier this month.They also said Nadda will hold a meeting of the BJP's core committee to review the ground situation and other matters.The BJP national president was in the poll-bound state on December 18 and 26. On December 18, Nadda flagged off the Vijay Sankalp Yatra with a roadshow in Haridwar.Nadda began the roadshow from the Pantdweep ground in Haridwar on a rath along with chief minister Pushkar Singh Dhami, former Union minister and Haridwar MP Ramesh Pokhriyal Nishank, BJP’s state president Madan Kaushik and state election in-charge and Union minister Pralhad Joshi."People’s response to the roadshow is overwhelming. Look at the crowds. There are people as far as you can see. It is a clear indication that people have made up their minds for electing the BJP once again," Nadda told PTI on December 18.While on December 26, Nadda addressed a meeting of BJP workers in Dehradun where he said that the public's gratitude towards the party motivates its workers to do better under the leadership of Prime Minister Narendra Modi and take decisions that benefit women and the public at large.Elections in Uttarakhand are set to take place next year in a total of 70 constituencies. In the 2017 elections, the BJP won 57 seats, Congress won 11 seats and two seats were won by others.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/elections/uttarakhand-assembly-election/bjp-chief-nadda-to-begin-2-day-visit-to-poll-bound-uttarakhand-from-today-101640653979467.html
28-12-2021||Bangalore||Karnataka to observe 10-day night curfew from today amid Omicron crisis||Karnataka will be placed under a seven-hour night curfew from Tuesday for 10 days amid a rise in the cases of the Omicron variant of the coronavirus, which has been spreading across the country."From December 28 onwards, for 10 days (till January 7 morning) to begin with, we would like to observe by calling a night curfew, from night 10pm to the next morning 5am… So there won't be any activities post 10pm during these days," state health minister Dr K Sudhakar said on Sunday.Also Read| State to carry out jab drive in schools for 15-18 age group: Karnataka chief ministerAccording to an official order, during the night curfew, movement of individuals will remain strictly prohibited, except for essential activities, patients and their attendants, industries and companies requiring night operations, vehicles carrying goods, bus, trains, Metro, air travel, home delivery and e-commerce operations, among others.People working on night shifts will be allowed to move during the curfew with a valid ID card. Movement of passengers for travel through trains, buses and flights will be allowed on displaying valid travel documents or tickets.The Karnataka government also said in its order that only essential staff or employees of IT and ITeS companies shall work from the office and the rest can work from home.Apart from the curfew, the state government has also banned New Year celebrations and gatherings in public places. On the other hand, hotels, pubs, clubs and restaurants have been asked to operate with 50 per cent seating capacity from December 30 to January 2.Also Read| ‘Don’t let guard down’: Centre cautions states amid Omicron concerns"There will be no functions or parties in the external premises, especially for those celebrating with DJs and large gatherings. They have been completely banned in Karnataka," health minister Dr Sudhakar also said on Sunday.A day before the 10-day night curfew came into force, chief minister Basavaraj Bommai said on Monday that the restriction was imposed in the interest of public health.“Night curfew has been imposed in the state in the interest of public health,” Bommai told reporters on Monday.Till now, Karnataka has recorded 31 cases of the Omicron variant of which 15 patients have recovered. Karnataka is the eighth worst-hit state from the variant across India.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/karnataka-to-observe-10-day-night-curfew-from-today-amid-omicron-crisis-101640649589102.html
28-12-2021||Chandigarh||4 days after blast, alternative routes to Ludhiana court complex sealed||Ludhiana Four days after a bomb blast exposed the lax security at the district court, alternative routes to the complex and other sensitive establishments were sealed on Monday. The passage and the main door of regional transport office (RTO), which led to the district court complex has been locked, while the door which was primarily used to present persons facing trial under Sections 107 (which pertains to the powers vested with an executive magistrate who may order detaining a person, he thinks, could commit a breach of peace or disturb the public tranquillity), and 151 (prevention of commission of cognizable offences) of the Code of Criminal Procedure (CrPC) was bricked up. A notice has been pasted on the wall redirecting litigants to appear from the main door of the police commissioner’s office.The door leading from the district excise and taxation department towards the district court complex has also been sealed. It was primarily used by excise and taxation lawyers. People were only allowed to enter the district complex from the main door of the deputy commissioner’s office where a door frame metal detector has been installed.Visitors perplexed Locals visiting the RTO were perplexed on finding the doors locked, while some chose to return, others could be seen enquiring whether the office was open from parking staff, and the cops deputed at the court complex. A local, Gaurav Sharma of Haibowal, who was visiting the transport office, said, “I always use the passage, which has been locked. Initially, I thought that the office was closed, but when I asked around, I learnt that all alternative accesses to the complex have been sealed, and people will only be allowed to enter after a thorough frisking.” Vendors disgruntled Vendors say the heightened security has affected their business. “Many entry points have been completely sealed, which has led to a decrease in footfall at our usual spots. The authorities are not allowing us to enter the premises,” said a tea vendor at the Mini- Secretariat.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/4-days-after-blast-alternative-routes-to-ludhiana-court-complex-sealed-101640648275497.html
28-12-2021||Chandigarh||Land dispute | 70- year- old Ludhiana killed, 5 injured in clash||A 70-year-old man was killed, and five others were injured after a scuffle broke out between two groups over grabbing of common land in Dalla village near Hathur area in Jagraon on Monday.The victim, Baldev Singh, was rushed to Government Hospital, Hathur, where he succumbed to his injuries. Four people – Balwinder Singh, his sons Arsvinder Singh and Gursaminder Singh; and Arshdeep Singh, all residents of Dalla village – have been booked under Sections 302 (murder), 324 (voluntarily causing hurt by dangerous weapons or means), 323 (voluntarily causing hurt) and 34 (common intention) of the Indian Penal Code. In his complaint, the victim’s son, Sukhwinder Singh, said the accused were trying to take illegal possession of a common plot of land, adjacent our house. “When we objected, the accused attacked me, my father, and sister-in-law Ranjit Kaur with sharp-edged weapons. My father was seriously injured, and succumbed at the hospital,” he said. Assistant sub-inspector, Kuldeep Kumar, the investigating officer, said the victim’s body was handed to the family after postmortem. “Three members of the other group were also injured in the incident.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/land-dispute-70-year-old-ludhiana-killed-5-injured-in-clash-101640648035446.html
28-12-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana | 80-year-old woman succumbs to Covid, six more test +ve||An 80-year-old woman succumbed, while six more people tested positive for the coronavirus disease (Covid) in the district on Monday. The victim, a resident of Fatehgarh Mohalla, was undergoing treatment at Christian Medical College and Hospital (CMC&H). Those who tested positive included a health worker, two contacts of a person who had recently tested positive, and three people who had got themselves checked at the out-patient department.The number of active cases in the district stands at 48, of which 47 are home isolated and one person is undergoing treatment at a private hospital.So far, 87,763 people have tested positive for Covid in the district, of which 85,598 have recovered, and 2,117 have succumbed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-80-year-old-woman-succumbs-to-covid-six-more-test-ve-101640647735334.html
28-12-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana man convicted of raping 5-star hotel staffer jumps parole, held||A main accused in the gang rape of a five-star hotel employee in 2015 was arrested on Monday, after he jumped parole. The convict, Badal of Shaheed Bhagat Singh Nagar, was arrested on the basis of a tip-off. He was booked under sections of the Punjab Good Conduct Prisoners (Temporary Release) Act. On March 8, 2015, he had been booked under Section 376D (gang rape) of the Indian Penal Code. Five months later, on June 12, 2015, the court of additional sessions judge (ASJ) Priya Sood had sentenced the accused to 20 years in jail and slapped him with a ₹50,000 fine. Later, the accused was released on parole, but he did not report back to jail officers. What had happened? (BOX) A 23-year-old woman, who worked at a five-star hotel, was kidnapped by three men in Rajguru Nagar on March 7, 2015. She was raped in a moving car, and then tossed on the road. The brutal rape had made headlines, and had invoked nationwide outrage. The accused had threatened the victim saying she would meet the same fate as Nirbhaya, the Delhi girl who was brutally assaulted and gang raped in a moving bus. The victim had told the police that she had been raped by two of her attackers. The incident had taken place when she was returning from her place of work to her paying-guest accommodation. The victim’s friends, who were accompanying her, said a white car had stopped near the victim, and the occupants had pulled her inside. Locals took her to a multi-specialty hospital on Ferozepur Road. However, the doctors there refused to treat her, saying it was a “police case.” The victim was then rushed to the Civil Hospital. Later, the victim was offered a job in the police department.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-man-convicted-of-raping-5-star-hotel-staffer-jumps-parole-held-101640647615701.html
28-12-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh MC poll: AAP’s Neha youngest candidate; defeats Congress ex-mayor||The youngest candidate to win the Chandigarh MC election is AAP’s 25-year-old Neha, who defeated Kamlesh, a former mayor from the Congress, by 804 votes. Neha, a Ram Darbar colony resident, is a bachelor of education degree holder from Dev Samaj College for Education, Sector 36.The second youngest candidate is Sachin Galav of Congress who defeated AAP’s poll committee in-charge Chander Mukhi.There are only four candidates below 30 years of age who have won the election -- Neha and Suman Devi from AAP; Jasmanpreet Singh from the BJP and Sachin Galav from AAP.AAP has filed seven women candidates-- Jaswinder Kaur, Suman Devi, Poonam, Taruna Mehta, Neha, Anju Katyal and Prem Lata for the MC polls. The BJP has filed two women candidates, Sarbjit Kaur and Bimla Dubey, while the Congress has filed four women candidates, Darshana, Harpreet Kaur Babla, Gurbax Rawat and Nirmala Devi.A total of 12 wards were reserved for women out of the 35 wards. Nine were reserved for women (general) and three for SC (women) candidates. Thirteen women have won the election.AAP has four candidates in their 30s and four in 40s. The BJP has five candidates in their 30s, three in their 40s and three in their 50s. The Congress has four candidates in 40s and two in 50s. The oldest candidate, Darshana, 66, is from AAP. The lone Muslim candidate who won the election, Manaur from ward number 29, is also from AAP. He defeated Ravinder Kumar of the BJP by 2,738 votes.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-mc-poll-aap-s-neha-youngest-candidate-defeats-congress-exmayor-101640647496853.html
28-12-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh MC poll: Congress office wears deserted look||While the counting centres were abuzz on Monday as the results of the MC elections were declared, the office of the Chandigarh Congress in Sector 35 wore a deserted look almost all day.The party which was expecting to make a big ground in the MC polls this time could only manage to win eight seats from the 35 seats of the Chandigarh MC. The election to the Chandigarh MC was held on December 24 and results were declared on Monday. While the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) won 14 seats in its poll debut, the BJP won 12 seats.In the morning, the party office had not many visitors after the counting of votes began. As the trends showed AAP and the BJP ahead of the Congress, the party office wore a deserted look throughout the day.According to a party associate, the Congress was expecting to win more seats this time. Some of the prominent faces in the party like Kanhaiya Kumar and Kumari Selja, president of the Haryana Pradesh Congress Committee (HPCC), had visited the city for the election campaigning. Grand welcome to Galav at PUCongress’s candidate Sachin Galav who won from ward 13 had a grand welcome on the Panjab University (PU) campus. Galav, who is a PU student, was accompanied by the members of the NSUI to the university’s Student Centre. Galav also met Pawan Kumar Bansal after winning the election.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-mc-poll-congress-office-wears-deserted-look-101640647495618.html
28-12-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh MC poll: Anti-incumbency worked, but not the way Congress saw it||It is an opportunity lost for the Congress as it faced the second successive defeat in the Chandigarh municipal corporation (MC) elections. The party was banking heavily on the anti-incumbency factor to regain power, but it was the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) that could exploit it to its advantage and push the grand old party to the third spot in the MC poll race. The defeat follows the party’s loss in the 2019 Lok Sabha election to the BJP. The Congress won on eight seats and was runner-up on 12 seats. In a close race, which in many wards went to the wire, the party lost by narrow margins, for instance in ward number 2, it lost by 11 votes and in ward number 3, by 90 votes. It’s voting percentage at 29.79% was highest, though it, was spread out across the wards, while AAP’s votes were more concentrated in particular wards. AAP’s eight candidate poll deposit got forfeited, only 2 faced such dismal performance. Congress was runner up on 12 seats, against AAP’s five. UNDERESTIMATING RIVALS The party underestimated the AAP’s prospects in the elections and focussed its attack primarily on the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP). Former MP and national treasurer, Congress, Pawan Kumar Bansal said, “Our campaign was mainly addressed at the BJP. The AAP model in Delhi has failed. We didn’t highlight it enough and only addressed it in the passing reference. There is a vast gap between their promises and actual deeds.” CAMPAIGN LAGGED BEHIND AAP, BJP The party’s campaign started slow and gained momentum only near the end of the campaign period. All through the campaign, it didn’t have the answer to the AAP’s guarantees, which comprised freebies, though the party did promise not to impose any new taxes and to reduce the existing ones. “We thought that these freebies being offered by AAP would never work with Chandigarh voters. There was some pressure on us too to respond with our set of freebies, but we didn’t think it was a responsible thing to do,” said Bansal. While AAP and the BJP went on an advertisement blitzkrieg, including outdoor hoardings, radio jingles, newspaper and social media advertisements, the Congress didn’t put up an outdoor advertisement at all and only on the last day of the campaign brought newspaper advertisements. Unlike AAP, which came out with catchy slogans focussing on party supremo Arvind Kejriwal’s public appeal, the Congress lagged far behind on this front too. CLOSE CONTESTS, REBEL FACTORIn some seats, the party’s rebel candidates, who joined AAP, made a major difference to its losing the seat. For instance, Prem Lata, who was denied a ticket by the party, won against its official candidate Ravinder Kaur Gujral. Lata left the Congress and fought on an AAP ticket. On another seat, ward number 3, BJP candidate Dalip Sharma defeated Congress’s Ravi Kumar by a margin of 90 votes only. Sharma polled 3,220 votes, while Kumar got 3,130 votes. Here a rebel Congress candidate, Kamal Kumar (Yanki) standing on an AAP ticket, came third and polled 2,660 votes. Both Congress candidate and rebel candidate combined polled more votes than the BJP candidate. “While there were strong candidates in all parties, some seats could have gone anywhere as the margins were close. We lost some of these but on any other day, these could have gone our way. That’s the first past the post system,” said Bansal. BAD START Notably, even before the election process got started, the party got a major setback when a major section of the party joined the AAP. The main trigger came when the party’s former city chief, Pardeep Chhabra, left it and became co-incharge in AAP. This while bolstering AAP’s grassroots network and giving it many of its candidates for the election, put the Congress on the back foot. The party’s leadership also didn’t make major efforts to bring back the dissidents. Ultimately, these not only split the party’s votes but also won in many wards. Even after the announcement of tickets, around half a dozen party workers went on the side of AAP. 
28-12-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh MC poll: BJP’s plan for sweet celebrations ends on a sour note||While campaigning, city BJP president Arun Sood on various occasions had said the BJP will get a clean sweep in the upcoming municipal corporation (MC) elections, but when counting started on Monday morning, there was a sombre mood outside Kamalam in Sector 33. As per sources, sweets had been brought to the venue and it had been decorated to celebrate the victory of the party, but nobody was seen celebrating outside the office.While the counting was going on around 11.45, an argument also broke out outside the office. Some of the supporters present there thrashed two people who were sitting in a Skoda car with a Chandigarh number which remained parked outside the office in the middle of the road. The police had to be called to resolve the matter. The police said it was only a routine incident and no case was registered.After winning his constituency, former senior deputy mayor of the MC, Maheshinder Singh Sidhu was one of the few councillors here who turned up to celebrate his victory around noon. “I’m thankful to Kirron Kher who came to vote despite her health issues. Due to the small margin of my victory, every single vote mattered,” he said while he greeted the party workers here and clicked pictures with them. Residents of Sector 33 also said they had expected a racket on the counting day but were surprised at the situation here. General secretary of the Sector 33-B Resident Welfare Association (RWA) Kuljinder Sra said, “When Kher had won the Lok Sabha elections in 2019, the roads here were filled with party workers who were celebrating, dhols were being played and many residents also faced problems because of their celebrations. Crackers were also burst at the office after her victory, but we were struck by the silence here on Monday.”Later in the evening, the BJP held a meeting at Kamalam. It was held by national vice president of BJP Saudan Singh and he congratulated all newly elected BJP councillors and told them to thank the people of their respective wards and serve them well. BJP city president Arun Sood, former president Sanjay Tandon and city unit general secretary Rambir Bhatti were also present for this meeting.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-mc-poll-bjp-s-plan-for-sweet-celebrations-ends-on-a-sour-note-101640647375140.html
28-12-2021||Chandigarh||Missing 19-year-old found dead: One more booked for murder in Ludhiana||A day after the police arrested two persons for the murder of a 19-year-old man who had gone missing on December 23, the police booked another accomplice on Monday. While Robin Singh and Kulvinder Singh of Kaneja village have already been arrested, their third accomplice Parmjit Kumar of Yashpal Colony is on the run. Police say Robin Singh, the main accused, had strangulated the victim, Tushar Kumar of New Shimla Colony, with the help of his friends and buried him on the banks of Sutlej river, in a four-feet deep pit in an abandoned area in Kaneja village. Robin had hatched the conspiracy to kill Tushar as he suspected that he was in a relationship with the girl he liked. Basti Jodhewal station house officer Mohammad Jamil said the victim had left his home on his motorcycle on December 23, saying he will be back in 15 minutes, but did not return. After waiting the night, his parents lodged a missing persons complaint the next day. A case was registered under Section 346 (wrongful confinement) of the Indian Penal Code against unidentified accused.“We found that Tushar’s friends – Robin and Kulvinder – had kidnapped him, and arrested them from Kaneja village.They confessed to killing Tushar and burying his body,” the SHO said. “The accused first dug a pit in the abandoned plot in Kaneja village, and then called Tushar to the spot, where they strangulated him,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/missing-19-year-old-found-dead-one-more-booked-for-murder-in-ludhiana-101640647315033.html
28-12-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh MC poll: BJP loses plot to AAP’s dream debut||In ascendancy for the last three municipal corporation (MC) elections and winning two successive Lok Sabha elections, the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) got a major reversal of fortune losing its thumping majority in the Chandigarh MC poll. Reduced to the second position after the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP), the BJP lost 40% of seats from the last election. In the results declared on Monday, its tally stands at 12 in a house of 35. It had won 20 seats in the 2016 elections when the total seats were 26. While in 2011, it secured 10 seats, and in the previous 2006 civic polls, it won on six seats. A strong anti-incumbency factor played a key role in the saffron party’s defeat. In 14 wards where existing councillors or their relatives were given the ticket by the party, only four won, this included, one outgoing – Ravi Kant Sharma and two former mayors – Rajesh Kalia and Davesh Moudgil. In victories too, the winning margin was low. For instance, senior deputy mayor Maheshinder Singh Sidhu won by only 11 votes in ward number 2 and Sarabjit Kaur won in ward number 6 by 502 votes. The garbage mess With the onset of campaigning, the party was on the defensive as opposition parties cornered it on the city’s poor show in the Swachh Survekshan 2021. The City Beautiful fell sharply in the sanitation rankings. The party’s failure to upgrade the solid waste management plant, Sector 25, and slow progress of legacy mining work at the Dadumajra dumping site was aggressively used by both AAP and the Congress against it. The party could seldom defend its record on the issue, blaming the Congress also didn’t cut much ice with the general public. The party’s choice of candidates in these locations, like the “unpopular” former mayor Rajesh Kalia from Dadumajra, also didn’t go well with an already angry populace. It lost all seats located around the Dadumajra dumping site. AAP won in ward numbers 25 and 26; and the Congress in ward numbers 27 and 28, which are located near the dumping site. Freebies trick At a time when the BJP increased the water tariff, sewage cess and garbage collection charges, the AAP’s promise to make all these free attracted a sizable vote share towards it. This was particularly the case in colonies, where the BJP could win only three of the 12 seats dominated by the colony votes. The party roping in a number of star campaigners from Purvanchal like MP Manoj Tiwari also didn’t succeed in the face of the AAP’s freebies in these locations. Colonies’ voters overwhelmingly backed the AAP. Split wide open The senior party leadership though made a concerted effort in keeping the different disjointed party factions together but it came a little too late. For the last five years, the party’s internal disputes were being put up for public display repeatedly tarnishing the image of the cadre-based party. From fights over the choice of mayoral candidates to the distribution of tickets for elections, the party could not manage its factionalism, which in the end sprouted as more than 12 rebel candidates. Though it could manage to withdraw the candidature of three rebels, the other nine proved to be major vote splitters against the party. For instance, rebel candidate Kripanand Thakur, though himself lost to Congress candidate, but pushed the BJP official candidate Devi Kumar to the third place, with combined votes of both more than winning candidate. Party leadership under scanner With the party’s poor show, questions are being raised over the leadership of state president Arun Sood and senior party leader Sanjay Tandon, both played a key role in the management of the party’s campaign. “Local leadership wasn’t able to manage properly the resources available at hand. Even the coordination between different departments was not proper. The election committee didn’t include balanced party voices. Not much effort was put into the formation of the manifesto when the Congress and AAP were making attractive promises. Star campaigners were not even properly briefed about city-specific issues,” said a senior BJP leader requesting anonymity. Sood said, “We managed the campaign well. But with even the Delhi government putting in funds in its city unit’s campaign publicising the unworkable freebies, we didn’t perform on expected lines.” Former MP Satya Pal Jain said, “The party’s performance is shocking and disgusting. It is time for the party to introspect and find what are the reasons behind it.” 
28-12-2021||Chandigarh||People ready to give Kejriwal’s development model a chance: Sisodia on Chandigarh MC poll results||Senior Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) leader and Delhi deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia on Monday said that the party’s victory in the Chandigarh municipal corporation polls indicated that the “people want to give a chance to ‘honesty and politics that works’ if there is an alternative.”Addressing a press conference with AAP’s Punjab chief Bhagwant Mann in the city, Sisodia said, “The results in Chandigarh have made it clear that people are all set to give a chance to Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal’s model of development. The mandate has broken the arrogance of those who practice the politics of hatred.” “The people of Punjab have decided to give a chance to Kejriwal this time. The inclination of the people of Punjab and Delhi towards AAP has also affected the people of Chandigarh,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/people-ready-to-give-kejriwal-s-development-model-a-chance-sisodia-on-chandigarh-mc-poll-results-101640647195171.html
28-12-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana MC general house meeting on December 29||An all-party meeting was held at the mayor’s camp office, a day before the general house meeting of the municipal corporation, which is scheduled to be held at Guru Nanak Bhawan on Tuesday. Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD), Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), Lok Insaaf Party (LIP), and Congress councillors participated in the meeting, which was held to go over the agenda of the general house meeting. Ludhiana mayor Balkar Sandhu said, “All issues in the agenda were discussed at the all-party meeting as we did not want anyone to create unnecessary ruckus during the general house meeting on Tuesday.”  Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) councillor Jaspal Giaspura, who is also the leader of opposition in the MC general house, said, the meeting went peacefully. “Only a few issues were opposed. The meeting was quite peaceful.” The house will discuss issues such as waiving water-sewer user charges, taking over 18 Greater Ludhiana Area Development Authority (GLADA) colonies for maintenance, revising the budget, selling MC properties and regularisation of contractual employees.The house is expected to deliberate on 26 resolutions, including allotment of jobs to the kin of deceased municipal employees, and naming five roads of the city after the Panj Pyare. With the fund-starved civic body struggling to pay for developmental works, the house will also deliberate on arranging ₹100 crore for the same.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-mc-general-house-meeting-on-december-29-101640646955009.html
28-12-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana | Consumer court pulls up Bangalore firm for failing to repair washing machine||For failing to repair a damaged washing machine delivered to the consumer, District Consumer Disputes Redressal Commission asked BPL Company having its office in Bangalore to repair the machine to the satisfaction of the complainant and pay ₹5,000 compensation.The CaseGurmeet Singh of Jagraon, Ludhiana, in his complaint against Amazon.in company and BPL company said he purchased online a BPL 6.5 Kg fully automatic front-loading washing machine from the respondents for ₹17,690 on February 14, 2018.After two days when washing machine was delivered, it did not function. The complainant noticed the cover part of the machine was damaged to which he lodged a complaint with respondents through an email on February 21, 2018 following which he was assured that the damaged part would be dispatched within 10-15 days.However, a technician reached the complainant on November 30, 2018, and after checking the washing machine assured that the damaged part would be changed shortly.Thereafter, the complainant contacted the BPL Company several times but to no avail.Alleging deficiency in services Gurmeet sought refund of ₹17,690 along with interest @18% per annum in addition to ₹60,000 compensation for mental harassment.Officials from the BPL Company did appear before the commission and counsel for Amazon.in said it is only an intermediary as per the Information Technology Act, 2000. “The seller of the product is only responsible and Amazon.in is not involved in the sale transaction, which is between the user and seller, and its role is only that of a facilitator,” read the submission of Amazon.in.DCDRC’s orderDismissing the complaint against Amazon.in the Commission observed that the washing machine in question was not being sold by it and it was only an intermediary.“It is evident with the BPL company, being the manufacturer of the washing machine, it promised to repair the same that was delivered in damaged condition to the complainant. . Since the washing machine was never repaired, it would be just and appropriate if the BPL Company is directed to repair the washing machine to the satisfaction of the complainant further made to pay a composite compensation of ₹5,000 to the complainant,” read the order of the Commission.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-consumer-court-pulls-up-bangalore-firm-for-failing-to-repair-washing-machine-101640646595182.html
28-12-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana | UCPMA releases 2022 calendar||Congress leader Mamta Ashu released the 2022 calendar of United Cycle and Parts Manufacturers Association (UCPMA) at UCPMS Complex, Gill Road, on Monday.Chairperson Joginder Kumar, along with the office bearers and the senior members of UCPMA honoured Mamta Ashu on the occasion.Mamta lauded the efficient working of UCPMA, in a time when over 15,000 people were vaccinated in UCPMA.Sunny Bhalla, councilor who accompanied Mamta assured his services for the UCPMA members.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-ucpma-releases-2022-calendar-101640646115275.html
28-12-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana | Sat Paul Mittal School ranks Best School in Punjab||Sat Paul Mittal School has been ranked the ‘Best School’ among the CBSE and ICSE schools in Punjab, by the ‘Education World’ magazine, on Monday. The official release by the school read, “By holding first rank in Punjab for sixth time in a row and 40th rank in India in co-education day school category in the Indian school ranking 2021-22, the school has proved again that providing quality education to the students remains the top priority of the school.”Education World magazine has been ranking educational institutions (primary-secondary schools) for the past fifteen years. Feedback was taken to rate the shortlisted schools on multiple parameters based on teacher welfare and development, competence of faculty, academic reputation, and more.The survey classified schools in four categories, day co-education, day-cum-boarding, girls’ and boys’ schools.Principal Bhupinder Gogia expressed his gratitude towards the support and encouragement extended by the school management.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-sat-paul-mittal-school-ranks-best-school-in-punjab-101640645514839.html
28-12-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana | UCC Khanna beats LDCA Kings by eight runs||Ludhiana: UCC Khanna eked out LDCA Kings by eight runs in the fourth league match of the ongoing LDCA U-16 Junior Cricket Tournament being held at GRD Academy grounds on Monday.Batting first, UCC Khanna put together 90 runs, losing all ten wickets in 33.4 overs; while LDCA Kings was bowled out for 82 in 28.3 overs.Bowlers of UCC Khanna changed the dynamics of the match. Manas Gupta took four wickets for UCC conceding 19 runs in his seven over spell. On other hand, Asisjot took three crucial wickets for 17 runs in his seven over spell and Abhiveer took two wickets conceding 22 runs in seven over to bag an eight runs victory for his team. Aramanpreet Singh remained the top scorer of the team with 25 runs. Meanwhile, Dron, Harshit and Shreyan of LDCA dominated the batting line up of UCC and took three wickets each giving away 21 runs, 20 runs and 18 runs, respectively. While Kavyansh was the top scorer with 22 runs for the chasing side, Shreyan also scored 20 competitive runs.Kanwaljit Singh Oberoi, vice-chairperson, GRD Global Academy with principal GS Jagpal inaugurated the match and wished good luck to the players.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-ucc-khanna-beats-ldca-kings-by-eight-runs-101640645275242.html
28-12-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: MC poll results out, all eyes on mayoral elections now||With no party securing a majority in the MC House, parleys for the next mayor has already started.In the House of 35 councillors, the majority mark is 18 votes. With the Chandigarh MP also having one vote, 19 becomes the majority mark out of total 36 votes.In the new house, the AAP has 14 councillors, BJP 12, Congress 8 and SAD 1.The mayoral elections are scheduled for the first week of January, and there is no clear winner at this stage. The mayor is elected by the house for a term of three years. The first mayor in a new House is traditionally selected among the woman councillors.Commenting on the BJP’s prospects in the mayoral elections, BJP state president Arun Sood, said, “We will put our candidates for all three posts – mayor, senior deputy mayor and the deputy mayor. If people are looking for stability and constructive work, people will vote for us.”Responding to BJP’s decision on mayoral elections, AAP city chief Prem Garg, said, “As per the people’s mandate, the BJP has no moral authority to contest the election. They should respect it. The Congress which is spent force in Chandigarh, should support the AAP’s candidate for mayor.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-mc-poll-results-out-all-eyes-on-mayoral-elections-now-101640644554550.html
28-12-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab assembly polls: Former Mohali mayor Kulwant joins AAP, likely to get ticket||Eyeing to contest the Punjab assembly elections from Mohali, Kulwant Singh, real estate baron and former mayor, joined the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) on Monday. He was inducted into the party in the presence of AAP’s Punjab president and Member of Parliament Bhagwant Mann and Punjab affairs co-incharge Raghav Chadha. Mann said Kulwant Singh’s familiarity with Mohali’s issues and voters will help AAP a great deal. In a press conference, Mann said, “Chandigarh proved that people are the real power in a democracy. And the people of Punjab have already decided to depart from traditional parties to elect an honest government that prefers development.” Mann thanked the voters of Chandigarh for choosing AAP that was contesting Chandigarh MC elections for the first time. Chadha said, “The people of Punjab will choose Arvind Kejriwal’s model of honest governance just like Chandigarh gave a chance to Kejriwal.” Kulwant Singh said, “I’m impressed by Kejriwal’s model of development in Delhi. Their works in the field of education, health and basic amenities are commendable. I’m looking forward to serving people with AAP.” Kulwant Singh’s political journey started around two decades ago when in 1995 he contested the municipal committee elections and won from ward number 21. He served as a senior vice-president in the municipal corporation from 1995 to 2000 and was the president till 2005. In 2014, he unsuccessfully contested the Lok Sabha elections from Fatehgarh Sahib, but then became the first mayor of the municipal corporation of Mohali in 2015 with the support of the Congress. Later, in 2017, he joined SAD. But, was expelled on January 16 this year for “anti-party activities” after he decided to contest the 2020 civic polls independently. Kulwant Singh is the owner of Janta Land Promoters Limited (JLPL) and has an annual turnover of ₹1,200 crore. In 1988, he developed a colony in Janta Nagar, Kharar, the first residential enclave to be approved in Punjab.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-assembly-polls-former-mohali-mayor-kulwant-joins-aap-likely-to-get-ticket-101640644014396.html
28-12-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh MC polls: NOTA spoils party for six winners, victory margin less than its votes||The none-of-the-above (NOTA) option played a spoilsport in all 35 wards of the city but hit six winning candidates the hardest as their victory margin was far less than votes in NOTA’s kitty. A total of 5,165 residents of different wards of Chandigarh rejected the candidates of various parties in the municipal corporation elections and opted for NOTA. Out of the total 3,85,830 votes that were counted on December 27, NOTA got 5,165 votes, constituting 1.33% of the total votes counted. It may be mentioned that in the 2016 MC elections, when NOTA was first introduced in Chandigarh civic body’s elections, 4,726 residents had exercised this option. NOTA gets highest in ward 28 and least in ward 8 At 441, ward number 28, comprising of Maloya village, EWS Colony, Sector 39 West, Gursagar Bhattal Colony, Gwala and Kumhar Colony, Sukhrana and Bansal Farm, had the highest number of votes in favour of NOTA while ward 8 had the lowest at 70. 103 candidates’ security deposit forfeited A total of 103 candidates who unsuccessfully contested the municipal corporation elections ended up losing their security deposit that was forfeited as they failed to get the required number of votes. At 49, the maximum number of independent candidates’ security deposit was forfeited while eight candidates are of AAP, 16 of BSP, 1 from CPM, 2 from Congress, 12 from SP and 15 from SAD. 
28-12-2021||Delhi||Delhiwale: A cold night’s home||The floor is of plywood. The roof appears to be of white tarpaulin. The walls, too, are of the same white material. There are no windows.This is a home to many men, including Sanjay, Danish, Jawed, Hasim, Asif, Satish and Ameeruddin. These are actually some of the names that were jotted down last evening by the caretaker in the entry register of this night shelter for the homeless.It is 2pm and the place is empty, here in central Delhi. It permits free admissions only for the night. Although one person seems to be fast asleep on a bed. “He works here and is resting,” explains Ankit Sharma, the caretaker attending to his afternoon shift (see photo). Managed by an NGO, the shelter props up annually on this site every winter. Named Pagoda Tent, it does look like a tent with a conical top. Similar looking shelters for the homeless can be seen across the Delhi region these days — one in Ghaziabad is outside a shopping mall.Each bed here is furnished with a mattress, a green sheet and a blanket. Pointing to a plastic bag lying under a bed, Mr Sharma says that ”sometimes a regular (boarder) might leave behind his belongings for the day, but we are not responsible for those.” He clarifies that “most of the people who sleep here own virtually nothing… some may have a small job in labour (sic) or in catering, but they earn just enough to survive from one day to another.” Almost all tend to be from “pardes”, he says. In his 30s, Mr Sharma has been intermittently associated with Delhi’s homeless shelters for about a decade. This caretaker’s assignment is winter season’s “part-time job” opportunity to him. Nevertheless, “the experience I have gained in these shelters have been my real schooling… I’ve learned so much about the ‘duniya’ by talking to the men here, and knowing about their lives.”This particular shelter starts to fill up at around five every evening, and becomes a full house in three hours. “Most men fall asleep quickly… because nobody has mobile [phones], so there are no songs to listen to, no news to watch, no distractions to stay awake.”The men are woken up early in the morning with chai and buttered toast, after which they are expected to stay out of the shelter, until the evening.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhiwale-a-cold-night-s-home-101640641845631.html
28-12-2021||Chandigarh||‘Delhi Model’, tapping into sentiment against rivals did the trick for AAP in Chandigarh||The “Delhi Model” worked wonders for the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) in Chandigarh as it became the leading party in the House in its maiden attempt itself. Securing twice the absolute majority in Delhi Assembly, the party could only come second in the last Punjab assembly elections. But this time around, the party is in the pole position in Chandigarh municipal corporation, and set to elect its first Chandigarh mayor.Remarkably, it made substantial gains in terms of vote share since the 2019 Lok Sabha elections. In 2019, it could secure only 3% of votes as its candidate Harmohan Dhawan even lost his poll deposit.AAP heavily banked on its “Delhi Model”, aggressively committing to deliver on its promises. A set of 23 “guarantees” were offered to the electorate, which mainly comprise a number of freebies.It packaged its “Delhi Model” and guarantees, focusing on Delhi chief minister (CM) Arvind Kejriwal, into catchy jingles like, “Chandigarh mei bhi Kejriwal”.It promised free drinking water supply up to 20,000 litres per family per month. The promise resonated with many residents in the backdrop of the recent controversy over the water tariff hike and increase in sewage cess.The party smartly tapped into the resentment among the residents on the issue, which had earlier spilled onto the streets with residents’ welfare associations staging a protest for rollback of the hike.Parking was another controversial issue, which the party fully exploited to its advantage by offering free parking. The residents have been regularly expressing unhappiness over the increase in parking charges, and mismanagement in the parking lots. The party also promised free primary education, health care and free Wi-Fi. ‘Will deliver where Cong-BJP failed’The party leaders repeatedly drummed it throughout their campaign that unlike the Congress and BJP which “failed” the city in the past, AAP will make a fresh start.The MC has changed hands between the Congress and BJP in the last 25 years. Other parties like the now defunct Chandigarh Vikas Manch and Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) could barely make a dent in the MC elections leaving Congress and BJP to dominate.Addressing his maiden rally in the MC elections, AAP supremo Arvind Kejriwal made party’s lack of political baggage in the city as his core of appeal to voters for the party.“The Congress and BJP have ruled the city for the last 25 years, since the MC was created. See what they have done to the city, they totally messed it up. You have seen their working now, give AAP a chance now. Let’s us show what can be done in the city, we will make Chandigarh no.1 city in Asia,” said Kejriwal.Both BJP and Congress found it hard to counter AAP on the lack of baggage it carried, though they attempted to pin down AAP on its “failures” in Delhi.The party successfully turned the anti-incumbency factor against the BJP of the last six years into a joint one against the 25-year rule of Congress and BJP. For instance, it took up the issue of Dadumajra garbage dumping site and blamed both BJP and Congress for it.Major inroads in coloniesThe AAP was able to make its message across successfully in the rehabilitation colonies and semi-rural areas of the city.Out of the 12 wards where the colony vote was predominant, the party won in eight. In villages too, the party had reasonable success securing three out of the six rural and semi-urban dominated wards.“The freebies clicked in these relatively poor locations. Also, in the villages the remnants of the anti-farm laws movements helped the party. In the villages, poor development track-record of BJP came in handy as people looked for options beyond the BJP, and opted for AAP over Congress.Congress’s loss AAP’s gainThe joining of the disgruntled party workers and leaders from Congress, helped AAP in bolstering its grassroots’ network. The party’s ground-level workforce had melted away after its 2019 drubbing. The fresh joinees before the elections and during the elections, many of got party tickets helped the party win a number of seats. It also helped it to edge out Congress and replace the BJP as the single largest party.
28-12-2021||Delhi||Manish Sisodia initiates veterinary hospital renovation||Deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia on Monday laid the foundation stone for the renovation of a veterinary hospital in east Delhi’s Patparganj, with officials saying that the upgrade will also incorporate a mohalla clinic in the four-storey building.“The renovated veterinary hospital will be a four-storeyed semi-permanent building. It will have a doctor’s room, a surgical room, an OPD and a space for treatment of large and small animals on the first floor. On the second floor as well, there will be a room for the doctor, a room for lab and the staff. There is a provision of two flats for the hospital staff on the third floor, and a library and hall on the fourth floor,” said a statement issued by the deputy CM’s office.The Delhi government has sanctioned ₹2 crore for the renovation project and it will be ready in seven months.The statement said that in addition to Patparganj, the hospital will also cater to residents of Laxmi Nagar, Pandav Nagar, Trilokpuri and Kondli.“The library on the upper level of the hospital will provide a comfortable space for students to study and the hall will be opened to the senior citizens for recreation purposes,” Sisodia said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/manish-sisodia-initiates-veterinary-hospital-renovation-101640641429074.html
28-12-2021||Chandigarh||2022 polls: BJP, Punjab Lok Congress, SAD (Sanyukt) announce alliance||The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), Captain Amarinder Singh-led Punjab Lok Congress (PLC) and the Shiromani Akali Dal (Sanyukt) on Monday formally announced their alliance for the Punjab assembly elections.Also, the alliance decided to form a six-member panel to discuss the seat-sharing arrangement. The announcement was made after Amarinder, SAD (Sanyukt) chief Sukhdev Singh Dhindsa and BJP’s Punjab election incharge Gajendra Singh Shekhawat met Union home minister Amit Shah and BJP national president JP Nadda in New Delhi. “The six-member committee, having two members each from all parties, will meet soon to finalise seat sharing as well as the alliance manifesto for a new Punjab,” said Shekhawat after the meeting that lasted nearly an hour. This was also the first meeting by Amarinder with Shah after announcing to form his own party. Amarinder’s aide Lt General TS Shergill (retd) was also part of the meeting. “Met with Union HM @AmitShah, @BJP4India President @JPNadda, Punjab Incharge @gssjodhpur & Shiromani Akali Dal (Sanyukt) President Sukhdev Dhindsa to discuss details of the alliance for the upcoming assembly elections. Look forward to working together to give Punjab a stable govt (sic),” tweeted Amarinder after the meeting. Senior BJP leaders privy with the development said both Amarinder and Dhindsa had a detailed discussion about the emerging political scenario in Punjab, especially after 22 farmer unions announced to contest the polls. Though there were no talks on the exact number of seats to be contested by any individual party, it is nearly certain that the BJP will be the major alliance partner and has conveyed to its allies that it will be contesting from no less than 70 seats. The saffron party wants to contest from most of the urban and semi-urban segments where at least 45% of the voters are either from the Hindu community or are scheduled castes (SCs) or other backward classes (OBCs). With Dhindsa-led SAD (Sanyukt) getting a jolt a few days back when its another senior leader Ranjeet Singh Brahmpura returned to the Badals-led Akali Dal, the BJP is no mood of giving more than 8-10 seats to the party, it is learnt. Hours after the meeting, the BJP’s Punjab unit received a confirmation about Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s visit to Punjab on January 5. Party’s state general secretary Subhash Sharma said the Prime Minister will visit Ferozepur to lay the foundation stone of PGIMER’s satellite centre. He is also likely address a public rally in the district the same day.
28-12-2021||Chandigarh||567 trains cancelled due to ‘Rail Roko’ stir in Punjab, railways refunds ₹1.69 crore to 32,100 passengers||The railways till Sunday refunded ₹1.69 crore to 32,100 passengers due to cancellation of 567 trains in the Ferozepur division in the wake of the farmer unions’ ‘Rail Roko’ protest at several locations in Punjab. The farmers under the banner of the Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Committee (KMSC) have been staging sit-ins on rail tracks in Amritsar, Jalandhar, Tanda, Tarn Taran and Ferozepur for over a week over their demand for a complete waiver of loans and outstanding electricity bills besides allotment of plots by the state government. An average 70 trains were cancelled daily from December 20 to 26, leaving the passengers in the lurch, it is learnt.At the Ludhiana city railway station alone, the authorities refunded ₹12.45 lakh to the passengers till Sunday. “This is just a fragment of the huge losses incurred by the railways due to the blockade of tracks by farmers across Punjab as most of the passengers book their tickets online these days,” said a senior official.This has become a big headache for the railways as trains have become a soft target for the farmers, he added.Even as the railways has requested the passengers to check the status of trains before leaving home, people continue to throng the railway stations, only to return disappointed.Passengers can check the status of their trains on the ‘Rail Madad’ portal’s helpline number 139, national train inquiry system application or on indianrail.gov.in, another official said. 
28-12-2021||Chandigarh||FSSAI registration number must on food bills from Jan 1: Mohali DHO||From January 1, 2022, it is mandatory for all food business operators (FBOs) to mention license/registration numbers on cash receipts, invoices and bills. District health officer (DHO) Dr Subhash Kumar said this rule is being implemented across the country from January 1, 2022, by the Food Safety and Standards Authority of India (FSSAI) for the convenience of people. He said through this registration number, which is issued by the FSSAI or the health department, the customer would be able to ensure that shopkeeper from whom they are buying any food item has a license/registration number or not. “Sometimes when customer complaints against a shopkeeper or a food business operator, the health department may find it difficult to trace the shopkeeper’s complete address or details due to which the grievances are not resolved. Now if a customer complaints against a food business operator, then they can complain by quoting the license/registration number,” said the DHO. “Under the Food Safety Act, every FBO is required to obtain a food safety license or registration certificate but many people do business without license or registration,” he said. Dr Subhash added that every shopkeeper or even hawker or rehriwala dealing in food and beverages must get a registration certificate or license, for which there is no need to visit the health department’s office. The registration certificate or license can be obtained by applying online at www.foscos.fssai.gov.in for which a government fee is charged. He said several people visit the health department office to get a food safety license, but this process is fully online. He said under the Food Safety Act, shopkeepers selling sweets would have to indicate the expiry date of sweets. “The shopkeeper must display the expiry date tag on the tray where sweets are kept. This rule is effective October 1, 2020,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/fssai-registration-number-must-on-food-bills-from-jan-1-mohali-dho-101640640713956.html
28-12-2021||Chandigarh||BKU Dakaunda decides against joining poll wagon in Punjab, won’t support SSM||Citing the organisation’s constitution, the Bhartiya Kisan Union (Ekta-Dakaunda) on Monday said that it will neither participate in the Punjab assembly elections scheduled early next year nor support any political party, including the newly formed Sanyukt Samaj Morcha (SSM). The decision was taken after a state-level meeting of leaders of the farmer union in Barnala town. The outfit decided to hold a “large rally” in the town on January 10 against the state government over its demands.Buta Singh Burjgill, state president of the BKU faction, said, “Though we will not participate in elections, we have decided not to oppose the Sanyukt Samaj Morcha. We have left the decision to the electorate to cast their vote. But we will continue to oppose the Shiromani Akali Dal, BJP, Aam Aadmi Party and the Congress because they have not fulfilled the promises they made in the past.”They will give an ultimatum to the Congress government in the state over their pending demands by holding a massive rally in Barnala next month, he added.Union’s state general secretary Jagmohan Singh said they followed their organisation’s constitution not to support any party. “Those part of the Sanyukt Samaj Morcha fought against the corporate sector along with us during the agitation against the Centre’s three farm laws. Therefore, we will not oppose them like other parties,” he added. The BKU (Ekta-Ugrahan), Punjab’s biggest farmer outfit, has already said that farmer unions should focus on resolving issues of farmers through struggle, rather than hoping to gain anything from electoral politics. The union claimed that it will not support any party, but also has not given any call of poll boycott either.
28-12-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh MC elections: AAPsurge, a hung house and setbacks||Debutant Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) emerged the leading outfit in the Chandigarh municipal corporation (MC) elections, winning 14 of 35 seats, but fell short of five seats for a simple majority, thus throwing up a hung House.The incumbent Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), meanwhile, was reduced to 12 councillors while the Congress won eight seats and Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) managed one. The AAP, which had its first major electoral win outside Delhi, will need 19 councillors to install a mayor while the BJP, which has the advantage of one vote of sitting MP Kirron Kher in the House, would need 18 councillors to do so. Major jolt to BJP For the BJP, it was a major jolt as seven of its sitting councillors, including incumbent mayor Ravi Kant Sharma and two former mayors Davesh Moudgil and Rajesh Kalia, lost their seats. Sharma lost to AAP’s Daman Preet Singh by 828 votes while Moudgil was trumped by Jasbir Singh of AAP by 939 votes. Kalia could secure only 3,139 votes and came third after Jatinder Kumar of Congress (4,384 votes) and seat was won by Kuldeep Kumar, who secured 5824 votes. The four other councillors who lost are Shakti Devshali, Sunita Dhawan, Heera Negi and Bharat Kumar. Big losses for Congress too Among Congress bigwigs, party’s chief spokesperson and former councillor HS Lucky and former mayor Kamlesh have lost the election; including two sitting councillors, Satish Kumar Kainth, a former deputy mayor and Ravinder Kaur Gujral. Local Congress chief Subhash Chawala’s son, Sumit Chawla stood third from Ward number 14 with only 2,532 votes. Here, BJP candidate Kuljeet Singh Sandhu won by a margin of 255 votes against AAP’s Kuldeep Singh. Lone upsetting result in AAP was of election campaign committee head, Chander Mukhi Sharma, who lost the election by 285 votes to former NSUI leader and first timer, Sachin Galav. The closest fight seen in the election was of Gurpreet Singh of Congress, who defeated Bhupinder Sharma of BJP by nine votes. The second closest contest was between Suman Devi of AAP and Savita Gupta of BJP, where the margin was only of 12 votes. Sitting BJP councillor Maheshinder Singh Sidhu also won by a narrow margin of 11 votes against Harmohinder Singh Lucky. A significant win for AAP All 14, who have won in AAP are first-timers and most among them are rebels from the Congress and BJP. The AAP’s win is significant, as this was its first MC election. The party had unsuccessfully contested Lok Sabha elections in 2019 and 2014. In 2019, Harmohan Dhawan, ended up losing his security deposit as he could manage to get only 13,781 votes, which was 3% of the total polled. In 2014, AAP’s Gul Panag had bagged 1,08,679 votes. Riding on “freebies” announced on different occasions, AAP ran a boisterous campaign having a head start with the announcements of “guarantees,” and taking a major share of outdoor advertisement spaces. Though Delhi chief minister, Arvind Kejriwal and MP Bhagwant Mann had put in brief appearances, it roped in many other senior leaders from Delhi, including nine MLAs, who oversaw overall campaign. The party cashed in on farmers’ protests, rising prices and “poor management” during Covid-19 outbreak. Star campaigners fail to work magic for BJP On the other hand, BJP had roped in chief ministers from Himachal Pradesh and Haryana and other leaders from Punjab, Uttarakhand, Delhi and even from eastern states to woo a huge voter base of migrants in colonies. BJP’s campaign remained centered around its “development” of past five years, Hindutva with slogans of Jai Shri Ram and references to Ayodhya temple was also often used in rallies. The party, also left no stone unturned to showcase Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s “work” and “image”. But it failed to impress the voters. Rebels spoil it for Congress The Congress, which has won in the majority of elections of civic body since its inception, ran a fledgling campaign. It failed to rope in leaders from Punjab. PPCC chief, Navjot Sidhu and chief minister, Charanjit Singh Channi, did not attend even a single rally, even as the city has a huge voter base from the state. Some rallies though were held by leaders from Haryana and Himachal Pradesh. Rebellion within the party, is also appears to have led to the drubbing. The party lost its former local unit chief Pardeep Chhabra to the AAP, who took along him over a dozen local faces and gave organisational strength to AAP. Counting peaceful The counting started at 9am and remained largely peaceful. Recounting of votes had to be done in Ward number-4 where AAP’s Suman Devi won by a margin of 12 votes against Savita Gupta of BJP. Voting took place on December 24 in which 60.78% of the total 6.33 lakh voters cast their votes. As many as 203 candidates were in the fray with the ruling BJP, the opposition Congress and debutant AAP putting up candidates on all 35 seats. In the outgoing MC House, of the total 26 seats, the BJP had 20 councillors, Congress five and the Shiromani Akali Dal one. The number of wards had been increased this time after delimitation and merger of rural areas in MC.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-mc-elections-aapsurge-a-hung-house-and-setbacks-101640640534530.html
28-12-2021||Chandigarh||Covid: 15 more test positive in Chandigarh tricity||As many as 15 fresh Covid-19 cases were reported in the tricity on Monday against the 18 cases on Sunday. A maximum of seven cases were reported from Chandigarh, followed by six from Mohali and two from Panchkula.However, no Covid-related fatality was reported.At 210, the tricity’s active caseload remained above 200 on Monday, with 103 patients still infected in Chandigarh, 56 in Mohali and 51 in Panchkula.With this, Chandigarh’s total cases to date have reached 65,781. While 64,600 patients have recovered, 1,078 have lost the battle against the virus. In Mohali, among the total 69,106 cases, 67,976 patients have been cured and 1,074 have succumbed.Of the 30,944 infections logged in Panchkula so far, 30,512 people have beaten the virus and 381 have died.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/covid-15-more-test-positive-in-chandigarh-tricity-101640640415122.html
28-12-2021||Chandigarh||Panchkula police arrest man for attempting to kill wife||The Panchkula police on Monday nabbed a person after he tried to kill his wife. The incident took place when the accused husband followed his wife to Sector 12-A from Zirakpur, stopped her auto and held a country-made pistol to her head.A complaint was filed by the auto driver in this regard. “I had left from Zirakpur to Majri Chowk, when at city court, Zirakpur, a woman boarded my three-wheeler. As I reached towards the bridge of Sector 12-A, a turbaned man approached my auto on his two-wheeler. He then parked his bike in front of my auto and held a pistol towards us. He then threw a huge stone towards the auto which broke the windshield,” the complainant has said.According to the FIR, the accused dragged out his wife and started beating her on the road. He then held a gun to her head with the intention to kill her. But as he saw the police, he tried to flee,” the FIR reads. The accused was caught by the onlookers and handed over to the police. The accused has been identified as Shamsher Singh, a resident of Huda plots in Sector 19, Panchkula. He was arrested by the police and would be presented in court on Tuesday. The accused has been booked under Section 25 of the Arms Act and Sections 323 (voluntarily causing hurt), 341 (wrongful restraint), 427 (mischief causing damage) and 506 (criminal intimidation) of the Indian Penal Code.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/panchkula-police-arrest-man-for-attempting-to-kill-wife-101640640293775.html
28-12-2021||Chandigarh||Panchkula police book five for attempt to murder||Five men have been booked for attempt to murder after they allegedly assaulted a group of men last week. The accused have been identified as Manu Singhal, Goldy, Aashish Walia, Rajiv Bakshi and Sagar. The complainant, Dinesh Kumar claimed that the suspects injured his friend, Sahil Gaur and damaged his car. “I received a call from my cousin Harsh about a car breakdown near raivdas mandir, after which I left with my friends for help. While returning, Aashish abused at us under the influence of alcohol and threatened us. Later, my Harsh received a call from Manu, who asked for our location and they arrived in a car. Soon they started attacking us,” the FIR stated. He further added that a shot was fired by Sagar, but they managed to escape and an empty cartridge was recovered by the police. The case was lodged under Sections 307 (attempt to murder) 323 (voluntarily causing hurt), 34 (acts done by several persons in furtherance of common intention), 427 (mischief causing damage to the amount of fifty rupees), 506 (criminal intimidation) of the Indian Penal Code and Arms Act at Raipur Rani police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/panchkula-police-book-five-for-attempt-to-murder-101640638613544.html
28-12-2021||Other||Other parties raising women issues is victory for party: Congress leader||Congress party’s spokesperson Alka Lamba claimed that it was due to party general secretary Priyanka Gandhi raising the issue of giving women their due in politics that all political parties had begun focusing on women issues. Lamba said that other parties raising women issues was a victory for the Congress and added that her party would give 40% tickets to women candidates in forthcoming assembly election of Uttar Pradesh (UP). Lamba was here in Agra on Monday to attend ‘town hall’ organised by the Congress to promote party’s slogan ‘Ladki Hoon, Lad Sakti Hoon’. Lamba along with national president of All India Women Congress Netta D’Souza and actress Kamya Punjabi held a conversation with women. “It was the Congress which brought law on domestic violence to curb atrocities on women. Congress has stood up for giving women a fair representation in politics,” Lamba said. “Voters in UP have not forgotten Hathras and Unnao incidents where women pride was hurt by ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) in UP. Masses will take BJP to task on such issues in the election,” she said. Netta D’Souza said that all promises made by Congress would be fulfilled if the party comes to power in UP. “Masses are fed up of hollow politics and have set their mind for a change this time,” she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/other-parties-raising-women-issues-is-victory-for-party-congress-leader-101640635373127.html
28-12-2021||Other||Gurugram cops bust ‘lift and loot’ gang, three arrested||Police on Monday arrested three members of a gang, who used to assault and rob commuters after offering them a lift. They were involved in over eight ‘lift and loot’ incidents since November 11, said police. The suspects were identified as Ajay Kumar, Sonu alias Langda and Deepanshu Yadav, all residents of Gurugram, police said, adding that they were arrested from Sector 9 and Surya Vihar near Kapashera.According to police, on November 11, the suspects robbed a 28-year-old executive of a private company of ₹90,000 and his belongings at gunpoint after he was offered lift in a car near Iffco Chowk. He was later thrown out of the car at an isolated stretch near Badshahpur, they said, adding that victim Ajay Bisht is a resident of Faridabad who works at an automobile company in Gurugram. Preet Pal Sangwan, assistant commissioner of police (crime), said that police on Monday arrested three members of a cabbie gang. He said that the suspects used to take car on rent and drive the vehicle to rob people. Police said that the weapon(s) used in the crimes were yet to be recovered. Sangwan said that all gang members are history sheeters, involved in carjacking, thefts and lift-and-loot incidents. All the suspects are friends and wanted to earn easy money following which they planned to rob commuters by offering them a lift, he said, adding that they used same cab to commit the robberies. “They used to force victims to reveal their ATM cards’ passwords at gunpoint or knifepoint and withdraw money from their accounts, apart from snatching their mobile phones and other valuables. They never took their laptops, fearing arrest,” Sangwan said. “The gang had zeroed in on five locations on a 20-km stretch of the Delhi-Gurugram Expressway to look for targets. They mostly picked up victims from Iffco Chowk , Shankar Chowk, Rajiv Chowk and Sector 18,” said Sangwan. According to police, there is one more gang operating on the expressway. “We have strong leads and the other gangs will also be busted soon. The teams are deployed at suspected locations,” said Sangwan. 
28-12-2021||Other||Don’t let Mathura become another Muz’nagar: Tikait||Bhartiya Kisan Union (BKU) leader Rakesh Tikait urged his supporters not to let Mathura become another Muzaffarnagar.“They are looking for votes which they are not finding from other places. Thus, they might look towards Mathura,” Tikait said in a veiled attack on the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) in Mathura on Monday.Tikait warned that riots could be instigated in Mathura and said if that happens it will affect jobs and work in the peaceful city. Tikait who was in Mathura on to end a more than 400-day old agitation in the district offered juice to agitating farmer and then addressed farmers who had gathered to hear him. “Beware of them and do not allow Mathura to become another Muzaffarnagar. They might instigate riots here to generate votes in their favour but this would bring business, jobs and day to day life to a halt,” the BKU leader said without naming any party.“They are looking for votes these days but are not finding them elsewhere. As such they are eyeing Mathura whose residents love peace and prayers and want things to remain that way,” he said. Political equations had changed drastically after the infamous Muzaffarnagar riots in 2013.About 150 kilometers from Delhi, Mathura is home to birthplace of Lord Krishna and where various litigations in Mathura courts have been filed by different organisations and individuals who claim that the Shahi Eidgah adjoining Sri Krishna Janmabhoomi was built by Mughal emperor Aurangzeb by demolishing a temple in the 17th century. BJP leader and Mathura MP Hema Malini was the latest to demand a grand temple in Mathura.UP chief minister Yogi Adityanath, during his frequent visits to Mathura has however not spoken on the subject yet though earlier in December, deputy chief minister Keshav Prasad Maurya had stirred a row saying preparations were underway for the construction of a grand temple in Mathura on the lines of Ayodhya and Varanasi. UP minister and Mathura MLA Chaudhary Laxmi Narain also justified the demand for a grand temple at Sri Krishna Janmabhoomi. “If Sri Krishna’s temple will not be built in Mathura, then would it be built in Lahore or Rawalpindi in Pakistan,” he had asked. The Mathura administration however did not allow various right-wing organisations including the Akhil Bharatiya Hindu Mahasabha (ABHM), Narayani Sena and the Janmabhoomi Mukti Dal to proceed with their ‘jalabhishek’ programme at the Shahi Eidgah on December 6. 
28-12-2021||Noida||Plastic waste management a challenge, say key speakers at Noida Sec 18 seminar||Public participation and awareness among masses is the key to handling plastic waste, which has become a threat to the ecology, said key speakers at a seminar organised by the Uttar Pradesh government and the industrial body at Radisson Hotel in Noida’s Sector 18 on Monday.The department of environment, forest and climate change of the Uttar Pradesh government in association with the Deutsche Gesellschaft für Internationale Zusammenarbeit (GIZ) India and the Federation of Indian Chambers of Commerce and Industry (FICCI) organised a seminar on the ‘Policy and governance perspective for transforming the plastic economy’.The session was inaugurated by Justice Sudhir Agarwal, member (judicial) of National Green Tribunal, and chaired by additional chief secretary of Uttar Pradesh government Manoj Singh and co-chaired by executive director of National Mission for Clean Ganga DP Mathuria. The key speakers said that “plastic waste can be treated and handled scientifically only after all stakeholders come forward for the purpose”.“We will have to restore the autonomy to our villages where plastic was not in use traditionally earlier. But now, we have realised that plastic is slowly making its way into villages, which is not a good sign. We need to work together so that the old village life, where plastic was not in use, can be encouraged. We need to use alternatives of plastic material such as clay made glass,” said Justice Agarwal, adding that such seminars should be organised in rural areas where awareness needs to be generated among masses.“A plastic product takes 1 million years to merge with the soil. Therefore, the time is to spread awareness in all sections of the society, particularly in rural areas,” Agarwal added. Key speakers deliberated on the need that state and central government bodies, and the private sector should work together to discourage the use of plastic. “The governments, both at the state level and the central level, are coming up with policies, which will help in handling of plastic waste properly. But the need is that everyone takes part in this campaign,” said Mathuria.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/plastic-waste-management-a-challenge-say-key-speakers-at-noida-sec-18-seminar-101640635013170.html
28-12-2021||Other||MCG House meeting: Panel to oversee upkeep of parks||The Municipal Corporation of Gurugram on Monday approved the hike in maintenance fees for parks from ₹3 to ₹4 per square metre during the House meeting held at John Hall in Civil Lines. The civic body also decided to form a subcommittee that will oversee the overall maintenance work of parks in the city.A number of civic issues were discussed during the meeting that was chaired by mayor Madhu Azad. A spokesperson of the municipal corporation said that during the meeting it was also decided that the work on the beautification and revival of ponds, which is crucial for improving the water table in the city, should start from January 31. Mayor Azad asked officials to ensure that civic work is carried out as per the quality norms and is completed within specific timelines. These works should be carried out on priority basis, she said.During the meeting, several councillors opposed the payment of ₹2 crore to Faridabad Municipal Corporation as garbage fees. However, municipal commissioner Mukesh Kumar Ahuja did not concur with the argument of the councillors and said that the MCG is a designated ULB and is required to pay the fees. “The government will be apprised with the views of the councillors as it has been discussed in the meeting,” he said. When the issue of non-functional water ATMs was raised, Hariom Atri, joint commissioner, headquarters, said that notices will be issued for cancelling the tenders to water ATMs that are not operational. A proposal to allot 1,000 square yard plot for the construction of Uttaranchal Bhawan as per the announcement of the Haryana chief minister was also made in the meeting, the spokesperson said. During the House meeting, councillors from different wards raised issues such as lack of sewage lines in New Palam Vihar and adjoining colonies, pending works in their respective wards and water supply line in Sushant Lok. The councillors also demanded repairs and refurbishing of the government senior secondary school in Wazirabad. They also demanded that streetlights be installed from Ardee City gate to auto stand.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/mcg-house-meeting-panel-to-oversee-upkeep-of-parks-101640634952989.html
28-12-2021||Other||Gurugram executive duped of ₹65 lakh over dating app||A 27-year-old executive working in Udyog Vihar was allegedly duped of around ₹65 lakh through a dating website and its application. The victim paid the owners of the website after registering himself on it and being introduced to a woman who promised to meet him after he completed the formalities.The website kept increasing the payment amount, which the man kept paying. When he refused to pay any more, the woman threatened to frame him in a rape case, following which he approached the police.Police said between November 19 and December 9, the victim transferred around ₹65 lakh in several transactions to several accounts in West Bengal. The first transaction was just ₹1,000 (the registration amount) and the biggest transaction was ₹9.5 lakh. After paying the huge sum, he realised that he had been duped, as neither did the woman meet him nor was the money, which he was told was the security deposit, was returned to him.KK Rao, the commissioner of police, said that the victim, a resident of Old Delhi Road, was browsing the internet on November 24, when he came across the mobile phone number of a company called Dating Circle.“Out of curiosity, I called the number. A woman who introduced herself as Shweta, an employee of the dating company, explained to me the benefits of dating through their company and encouraged me to try it once,” he said.Police said the victim was asked to register with the company after paying ₹1,000. The money was transferred into a bank account in Kolkata in the name of Moyna Bibi. “Shweta talked to me in such a manner that I was lured into registering,” the victim said.On November 26, the victim was introduced to a girl who introduced herself as Shruti. The company shared the mobile phone number of the girl and asked him to pay a refundable amount of ₹18,000. “I had a conversation with Shruti from my mobile phone. During this time, I would also receive calls from Shweta who would tell me to deposit more money,” the victim said.Rao said that the suspects told him that the amount would be refunded after some deductions after he met Shruti. The next day, he again received a call from Shweta and was asked to pay another ₹28,000. After a few days, he was asked to pay ₹50,000 more.“Shweta continued to ask the victim to deposit huge sums of money, promising him that the money will be refunded after some deductions after each meeting with the girl. However, the victim got suspicious, told her to cancel his registration with the company and return his money,” Rao said.He was asked to make another payment for cancellation. “I was told that if I deposited more money in their accounts, then the process for cancellation will be started and money will be refunded in instalments,” the victim said, adding that he then transferred more money.Despite his repeated request, the account was not cancelled, nor was his money returned. He was then introduced to one Rohit, who claimed to be a senior executive of the dating company. Rohit also asked him to make further payments to get a refund.Shruti then allegedly threatened to implicate him in a false rape case if he refused to make further payments.On December 17, the victim approached Gurugram police and filed a complaint. After an initial investigation, police registered the case at Udyog Vihar police station on Sunday under sections 420 (cheating) and 120B (criminal conspiracy) of IPC.“A case has been registered and police are trying to trace the persons behind the fraud,” said Rao.
28-12-2021||Lucknow||KGMU study stresses on importance of booster dose of Covid vaccine||A study done by King George’s Medical University (KGMU) has suggested that booster dose of covid vaccine would be important in ensuring maintenance of antibodies. The study revealed that the antibody levels drop with the passage of time after vaccination. “Inference from our study is that antibodies decrease continuously with time and a booster dose is needed,” said Prof Tulika Chandra, head of the department (HoD) of KGMU’s transfusion medicine who led the study. “We took samples from 500 health workers in three categories where first batch was of 200 such persons who have had their last/second dose of vaccine within six months. In all of them the antibodies were positive but showed a 42% decrease in the level of their antibodies,” Professor Chandra said. “The next batch was also of 200 who took the jab seven months back and of them 175 (87.5%) were antibodies positive. But the remaining showed either very low level of antibodies or tested negative in antibodies test. The overall decrease in antibodies level were 68%,” said Professor Chandra. A third group was of 100 health workers who had got their last vaccine dose eight months before. “This group showed 75% positive for antibodies and 25% were negative or had very low levels of antibodies with average decrease of 84% in their antibodies level,” Professor Chandra said. This is first of its kind study that has been done in state to know long term status of antibodies among the vaccinated. KGMU, a premier government medical institute, has over 9000 staff working on the campus including doctors, nurses, ward boys, sweepers and clerical staff. The study included all of these segments. “The idea was to check the need and significance of a booster dose. As covid infection is yet to be eliminated hence a threat of re-infection remains and apart from covid protocol a booster dose becomes significant,” said Prof Chandra||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/kgmu-study-stresses-on-importance-of-booster-dose-of-covid-vaccine-101640634473202.html
28-12-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh MC elections: At AAP office, supporters upbeat after debut victory||There was a celebratory mood at the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) office throughout the day, as the party’s candidates won 14 of the 35 seats in the Chandigarh municipal corporation (MC) House, results of which were announced on Monday. The celebrations started as early as 9.30am, when the party candidates were leading in most of the seats and throughout the day, the rejoicing intensified, as the final results came to the fore.The chant of “Chandigarh hui hamari, abh Punjab ki baari” (Chandigarh is ours, now it’s Punjab’s turn) by the party leaders and supporters reverberated off the office walls.Outside city AAP president Prem Garg’s residence in Sector 20, supporters, winning candidates and party leaders rejoiced to the beats of drums and engaged in sloganeering. The party’s senior leaders, Pradeep Chhabra and Chandramukhi Sharma, were also present at Garg’s residence, reviewing the results.Garg said, “Many of our candidates have defeated senior BJP leaders, including sitting and former mayors. What can be more rewarding for us? Now, it’s time to fulfil our poll promises and act wisely, so that we can keep the win in the Punjab elections and next MC elections in Chandigarh.”Each winning candidate, wearing yellow turban or outfit, held a road show from their respective houses and counting centre to Garg’s residence, to meet and greet the city president. Even some of the candidates who lost were seen celebrating the party’s result in its debut polls in the city.The celebrations further got a boost when Raghav Chadha, AAP MLA and the party’s co-incharge of Punjab, reached Chandigarh to congratulate the winning candidates and supporters.“This victory is just the beginning for us and celebrations will continue when the party sweeps Punjab assembly elections soon. The people are fed up with BJP and Congress’ fake promises and they wanted a change and a party who will work for development and welfare of people,‘’ Chadha said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-mc-elections-at-aap-office-supporters-upbeat-after-debut-victory-101640634415145.html
28-12-2021||Other||DTCP seals 21 properties in Sushant Lok 1||The department of town and country planning on Monday carried out a sealing drive in Sushant Lok 1 and sealed 21 properties for zoning violations and carrying out commercial activities in residential plots. RS Bhath, district town planner (enforcement) said that show cause notices were issued earlier to these property owners for running commercial establishments opposite Sushant Lok 1’s C Block market on the 18-metre road. “We had received a number of complaints from the RWA and also the local councillor, and asked the violators to stop these activities. Action was taken on the complaints lodged by stakeholders,” he said.The DTCP officials said that when the drive started, owners of several restaurants, salons, and other shops downed the shutters and left the spot, but they were called back. Bhath said that 20 establishments were sealed for carrying out commercial activities and one for zoning violation. “We asked the owners to return and the sealing was carried out in their presence, along with videography. We have also asked these property owners to get permission from the department for non-disturbing activities, pay the required fees and run their activities without violating the rules,” he said, adding that a team of Gurugram police supported the sealing drive. Meanwhile, the enforcement wing of DTCP also issued notices to seven illegal colonies being built in Farrukhnagar and said that action will be taken against the land owners if they don’t cease illegal constructions. “We had asked officials to identify illegal colonies being carved out in the outskirts. The team has identified seven colonies in Farrukhnagar, and we have issued notices to the colonisers,” said Bhath, adding that the violators have been asked to reply to the notices by January 4.
28-12-2021||Other||IMD issues cold wave alert for Dec 31 in Gurugram, Faridabad||The India Meteorological Department on Monday issued a yellow alert, predicting a cold wave on December 31 in the south Haryana region, including Gurugram and Faridabad. According to the weather bulletin issued on Monday by Meteorological Centre Chandigarh, a regional centre of IMD, a yellow alert (asking authorities to be prepared) has been issued for the south Haryana region predicting dense fog for December 29-30 and a cold wave for December 31. “Over the next 48 hours, there will not be any large change in minimum temperatures, but temperatures across the state will drop by three to five degrees thereafter. Light rainfall at isolated places is also likely over the region on December 28-29,” said Manmohan Singh, director of Meteorological Centre Chandigarh. Gurugram on Monday recorded the maximum temperature at 20.3°C, while the minimum temperature was 11°C, five degrees above normal, the IMD said. According to the weekly forecast of the IMD, over the next five days, the maximum temperature is likely to be around 19-20°C, while the minimum temperature will drop by five degrees and is likely to be around 5°C on January 1. Meanwhile, air quality in the city on Monday improved from ‘very poor’ category to ‘poor’ category after five days. According to the 4pm bulletin of the Central Pollution Control Board, the air quality index of Gurugram on Monday was 250 with PM 2.5 as the primary pollutant. On Sunday, the city had recorded an AQI reading of 375. According to the weather bulletin by the Air Quality Early Warning System for Delhi-NCR, the air quality over the national capital territory is likely to remain in ‘poor’ to ‘moderate’ category on Tuesday and ‘poor’ category on Wednesday. The bulletin mentioned that rain on Sunday helped in significant improvement of air quality.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/imd-issues-cold-wave-alert-for-dec-31-in-gurugram-faridabad-101640633992941.html
28-12-2021||Jaipur||Farm loans: Rajasthan sends proposal to banks for one-time loan waiver scheme||JAIPUR: Rajasthan chief minister Ashok Gehlot on Monday said a proposal has been sent to the banks to provide relief to the poor farmers by bringing a one-time loan waiver scheme for a waiver of crop loans of nationalised banks. “Proposals have been sent to nationalised banks in this regard and the banks should extend necessary cooperation to the state government in loan waiver of farmers,” Gehlot said while addressing a meeting of the State Level Bankers’ Committee (SLBC) and a seminar of the NABARD through video conference.He said by implementing the proposal, the nationalised banks should extend necessary cooperation to the state government in loan waiver of farmers. Gehlot said in the one-time loan waiver scheme recently introduced by the State Bank of India (SBI), agricultural loans classified as non-performing assets have been waived. He said 90% of the loan has been waived by the bank while the remaining 10% was paid by the farmer, and asked other banks to provide relief to poor farmers on similar lines.“The state government is ready to give 10% share of the farmer in this scheme. The aim of the state government and banks is to provide relief to the farmers,” said the chief minister. Gehlot said many efforts have been made by the state government to provide relief to the common man and to maintain the pace of development. He said farm loans of ₹14,000 crore from cooperative banks have been waived so far. The farmers’ loans from nationalised banks declared NPA on November 20, 2018, are yet to be waived.
28-12-2021||Noida||30-year-old man arrested for cheating retired Army colonel of ₹6 lakh in Noida||A 30-year-old man was arrested from Noida on Sunday for allegedly cheating a retired Army colonel of ₹6 lakh nearly five months ago. The suspect was identified as Chetan Prakash Upadhyaya, a native of Bikaner in Rajasthan, said police on Monday. Kumar Ranvijay Singh, additional deputy commissioner of police (ADCP), Noida, said that Colonel (retired) AK Rajpal , a resident of Noida Sector 29, had filed a complaint at the Sector 20 police station on August 13 this year.Rajpal received a text message in August that SMS service on his cellphone was blocked and he should contact the number mentioned in the text to resume the service, he said in his complaint. He called on the cellphone number, and the suspect asked him to download an application and make a payment (recharge the cellphone number) of ₹11 online. The complainant said that he was kept engaged on the call as the suspect got hold of his bank account details and fraudulently withdrew ₹6 lakh from there.A case was registered against the suspect under Indian Penal Code (IPC) Section 420 (cheating) and Section 66D of the IT Act.Police got a tip about the suspect’s movement near Sector 18 Metro station on Sunday, and arrested him from there, said Singh, adding, “Police have also recovered five debit cards and as many credit cards, and a cellphone from Upadhyaya’s possession. We have also recovered ₹5.98 lakh from his bank account, and asked the bank officials to freeze the account.”Upadhyaya has been involved in such frauds for the past one year and cheated several other people. He has been produced before a court and sent to judicial custody.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/30yearold-man-arrested-for-cheating-retired-army-colonel-of-6-lakh-in-noida-101640633932743.html
28-12-2021||Chandigarh||Rohtak bride shot at; discharged from hospital after 25 days||Twenty-five days after three persons had shot at a bride after her wedding on December 2 at Rohtak’s Bhali village, the woman was discharged from a private hospital in Gurugram on Sunday evening, where she was undergoing treatment.After the woman returned to her paternal home in Sampla, Rohtak MP Arvind Sharma met her family and assured them of providing help in treatment as doctors are yet to extract five of six bullets from the woman’s body.After the incident, the bride underwent treatment at Rohtak’s Post-Graduate Institute of Medical Sciences (PGIMS), from where she was referred to a private hospital in Gurugram. Doctors had extracted one bullet from her hand but five bullets are yet to be pumped out as the woman’s health is not fit to perform surgery.The woman said main accused Sahil had chased their SUV when she and the groom had left her paternal home after the wedding and intercepted the car when they were about to reach the in-laws’ house.“The accused pulled out his weapon and asked me to marry him, threatening to fire shots at me if I refused. Then, he pumped six bullets into my body. Doctors told me that they will pull out five bullets from my body once I maintain good health. I want to become an IPS officer and serve the society like Kiran Bedi,” she added.“When he came out of jail, he gave me threat calls. Once doctors pull out the remaining bullets from my body, I will focus on my academics. I don’t know from where I got the confidence to fight for my life even after sustaining six bullet injuries,” she added.The Rohtak police had sent main accused Sahil Kumar, of Sampla village in judicial custody after seeking his three-day remand earlier in the month.In his complaint, the victim’s husband, of Bhali Anandpur village, had said that after their marriage, he, along with his wife and brother, were returning home.“When we reached near a temple, three person in a Toyota Innova intercepted our car, fired shots at my wife and snatched my brother’s gold chain before fleeing,” he added.Police had arrested four people including two minors in the case. Rohtak SP Uday Meena said the minors had confessed to providing minute-to-minute details of the victim’s marriage to the main accused.“They had dropped him on a bike at Kharkhauda road in Sampla, snatched a car and used it to commit the crime. We had recovered the bike and the car used in the crime,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/rohtak-bride-shot-at-discharged-from-hospital-after-25-days-101640633695177.html
28-12-2021||Noida||Four booked for abetment to suicide in Noida||Day after a 24-year-old man died by suicide over alleged harassment by his wife’s parents, police on Sunday booked four persons for abetment to suicide. The victim, a native of Aligarh, lived in Noida’s Sector 54, police said. The man had an inter-faith marriage with a 20-year-old woman on May 8, 2021, police said, adding that the victim had also posted a suicide note on a social media platform alleging that his in-laws were not letting his wife live with him as they were from two different faiths.On the basis of a complaint filed by the victim’s father, a case was registered at Sector 24 police station on Sunday. He said that his son married a woman, a resident of a village in Noida’s Sector 53. “They had a love marriage...they married against the wishes of the two families. Two days after the marriage the woman’s family members filed a police complaint against my son alleging abduction. Police investigated the matter and closed the case since the two persons were adults and they had married on their own will,” the father said in the FIR.He further said that the woman’s family members had been harassing his son since then. “The couple had shifted to Jaipur after their marriage. However, on October 16, 2021, the woman’s father and an uncle reached Jaipur and brought the woman to Noida. Since then, her family members refused to let her live with her husband. They had also threatened my son for consequences if he tried to meet her,” he said, adding that his son finally ended his life in Noida’s Sector 54 on Saturday. According to police, the victim in his note addressed to the Uttar Pradesh chief minister said that “my in-laws tricked my wife and brought her to Noida on October 16. My in-laws had told my wife that she had converted while I (husband) would not be converted. For the last two months, whenever I tried to contact my wife, my in-laws threatened me for consequences”. Gyan Singh, station house officer (SHO) of Sector 24 police station, said that a case has been registered against the woman’s father, mother and two uncles under Section 306 (abetment to suicide) of IPC. “Primary investigation shows that the victim was depressed over the issue. The woman’s family members are at large. We have launched a search to arrest them,” he said.Rajneesh Verma, additional deputy commissioner of police, Noida, said that the police have recovered the victim’s mobile phone and scanning the call records. “Action will be taken against the suspects based on the evidence,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/four-booked-for-abetment-to-suicide-in-noida-101640633693100.html
28-12-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab logs 46 fresh Covid cases||Chandigarh : Punjab on Saturday reported 46 fresh Covid cases taking the infection tally to 604279, according to a medical bulletin. The state’s positivity rate for the day remained 0.63%, highest in the past over two months. The number of active cases in the state also rose to 392, the bulletin said. Among fresh cases, maximum 14 were reported in Pathankot.With 27 persons recovering from the infection, the number of cured persons has reached 587246, the bulletin said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-logs-46-fresh-covid-cases-101640633634152.html
28-12-2021||Other||50 police teams to enforce night curfew in Gurugram||The district police on Monday formed 50 teams to keep a check on vehicular movement on various borders and for enforcement of night curfew as per directions issued by the state government on Friday. Police said after the night curfew was imposed, many people have shifted their New Year celebrations from clubs, bars and restaurants to their homes and farmhouses. The teams will also check these establishments post 11pm, said police. KK Rao, commissioner of police, said that all the 40 police stations have been directed to keep a strict vigil in their respective areas and not to allow anyone playing loud music post 11pm. “People can celebrate before 11pm, but must adhere to the guidelines. More than 200 people are not allowed in a gathering. Also, the organisers must ensure those attending a party are fully vaccinated,” he said. More than 20 teams, each comprising five personnel, will keep a check on MG Road, Sohna Road, Old Delhi-Gurugram road, Golf Course Road and Golf Course Extension Road where most of the pubs, bars and restaurants are located. Besides, the teams have also been deployed to keep a check on drunk driving, the officials said. Rao said that 11 borders connecting to the national capital and four to Nuh and others to Rajasthan are being manned by the police teams. “All vehicles are being checked at the borders and prime focus is on smuggling of liquor. Anyone found carrying liquor or any other substance, strict action will be taken against them,” he said. The Haryana government on Friday had issued a ‘Mahamari Surakshit’ alert across the state, imposing restrictions on the movement of people from 11pm to 5am. The government has put curbs on the number of people at social functions, and made double vaccination mandatory to enter public places from January 1 next year. A gathering of more than 200 people in public places and other programmes is not allowed, as per the government order. 
28-12-2021||Chandigarh||Committed to increase farmers’ income, says Khattar||Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar said the state government is committed to increase the income of farmers and many initiatives have been taken in this direction.He said the state government is also making efforts for expansion of mandis and the government is striving to expand the mandis by strengthening proper processing technology and infrastructure while maintaining diversification in the agriculture sector.Khattar urged the farmers to adopt crop diversification and shift to fruits, flowers and vegetables instead of paddy. “Groundwater is available in limited quantity and to save it, we should leave paddy cultivation, grow other crops and take advantage of the schemes launched for crop diversification,” he added.He said the agricultural sector has seen rapid progress in terms of fruits and vegetables, dairy production and fisheries.Earlier, the chief minister had inaugurated an integrated pack house-cum-crop cluster centre at Taraori in Karnal district set up at a cost of about ₹5.50 crore by a group of farmers and a subsidy of ₹4 crore was paid by the government.Khattar said this pack house will play an important role in promoting agricultural diversification and help in achieving the aim of the Haryana government of doubling the income of farmers.This is the seventh pack house of Haryana and 50 more pack houses and crop cluster centres will be established in state to increase income of farmers.Besides this, the pack houses will also serve as an employment opportunity for workers, Khattar added.The chief minister said the pack house has facilities for washing, sorting, cleaning, packing and cold storage of vegetables so that they can be kept safe for a long time. This will increase income of the farmers and labourers working in the fields.Accompanied by state agriculture minister JP Dalal, the chief minister launched the Haryana Pragatisheel Kisan Samman Yojana and the reclamation of waterlogged and saline soil portal. Farmers can register themselves on it and avail benefits, he said.On a question regarding the formation of a political outfit by the members of Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM), Khattar said the move has exposed their political ambitions.“We had already announced that they had political motives behind the agitation and now, their desires are out in the open. Farmers will never accept them,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/committed-to-increase-farmers-income-says-khattar-101640633514791.html
28-12-2021||Chandigarh||Drugs case: Majithia moves HC seeking anticipatory bail||Chandigarh: Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) leader and former minister Bikram Singh Majithia on Monday moved the Punjab and Haryana high court seeking anticipatory bail. A Mohali court dismissed his plea on December 24 observing that though his claims are of political vendetta, he himself was a powerful person in the state politics till 2017 during the SAD regime. The plea is likely to be listed for hearing either on Tuesday or Wednesday.Majithia was booked by Punjab Police under cognizable sections of the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act, including Sections 25 (punishment for allowing premises, etc. to be used for commission of an offence), 27 (A) ( whoever is financing any activities indulging in production, manufacture, possession, sale, purchase, transportation, use or consumption, import and export or deal in any activities pertaining to narcotic drugs) and 29 (party to a criminal conspiracy to commit an offence). These sections have the provision of imprisonment up to 10 years along with a fine as decided by the court. Majithia’s whereabouts are not known. The plea alleges that targeting the petitioner (Majithia) is one of the major election planks of the current government. “To fulfil the election stunt, the Congress government has been day and night browbeating officers to register false cases against the senior leadership of the SAD, including the petitioner. Witch hunting of the political opponents has gone to its peak,” the plea claims, adding that for the purpose, the government has changed three DGPs over the span of three months. The Bureau of Investigation has also seen three departmental heads/directors change, the plea added. Police officers have been forced and coerced to falsely implicate him or face transfers punitive action, the plea claims, adding that some officers have also been induced with promotions and plum postings, if they toe the line of the government.Rejecting Majithia’s bail plea on December 24, the Mohali court observed that the delay in lodging the criminal case cannot be a ground to presume that whole case against the applicant was false. His name cropped up in 2014 and the SAD remained in power till February 2017.Special judge Sandeep Kumar Singla also said that the FIR has been registered on the basis of report, which prima facie shows the “involvement” of the applicant in the drug trade and harbouring of accused involved in drug mafia. “All these facts and financial transactions and extend of complicity of the applicant needs to be thoroughly investigated which can be done only under custodial interrogation of the applicant,” the court had said, adding that the question on legality of the criminal case, whether it is borne out of political vendetta or not, cannot be a ground for grant of anticipatory bail. The plea in the HC claims that Siddharth Chattopadhyaya was given the additional charge of the DGP only to act as a “tool to advance the political interests” of the present government. The plea also referred to the controversy involving ADGP SK Asthana, claiming that he refused to investigate the matter and raised questions whether the matter can be investigated, it being sealed before the court; superseded by other reports and whether investigation can be initiated without the permission of the court. He has also accused Punjab Congress chief Navjot Singh Sidhu of indulging in “unwarranted propaganda” and deputy CM Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa demonstrating “intense hatred” towards him.The plea further says the report of the special task force (STF), which is the basis of the FIR, was either superseded or merged with the subsequent report of a state government committee. But this fact was ignored and the FIR was registered. Moreover, in the entire lengthy FIR, no fresh evidence has been collected or statement recorded, it says, adding that in all the drugs cases registered, trials have been concluded with the acquittal of some accused and conviction of others. None of the accused made any reference of the petitioner.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/drugs-case-majithia-moves-hc-seeking-anticipatory-bail-101640633512674.html
28-12-2021||Chandigarh||Security beefed up outside Ambala churches; no clue of miscreants||A day after a statue of Jesus Christ was allegedly vandalised at a British-era church in the Ambala Cantonment, police presence has been increased outside churches here from Monday.Area SHO Naresh Kumar said following the incident, additional police force was called in from the Police Lines and deputed in at least four to five churches under his jurisdiction.Special police teams from Ambala, Panchkula and elsewhere reached the Holy Redeemer Catholic Church on Lawrence Road to investigate the spot and collect clues.Three teams of CIA-1 staff, CIA-2 and Cantt police station are probing the incident that gathered national headlines on Sunday amid wide condemnation. The accused have not been traced even after 48 hours.Investigators believe it was an act of miscreants who entered the church after climbing the main gate as seen in CCTV footage. On Sunday night, the Ambala police released a CCTV grab of one of the assailants.“With the help of the photo, police are trying to identify the accused. There is a similar photo of the other accused but it is not clear. We are also taking help from the Cyber Cell of police,” cops part of the probe teams said.Earlier in the day, church authorities had reported urination near the entrance door of the prayer hall, a charge denied by the police.A priest at the church, Father Anthony said, “We found urine after locals arrived for the morning prayers and informed police; CCTV footage shows they tried to barge into the hall. But they were unable to do so as it was locked from inside.”Cantt DSP Ram Kumar said police are not shown the said spot (of urination) during their visit on Monday. A probe is underway and police are expecting a breakthrough soon.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/security-beefed-up-outside-ambala-churches-no-clue-of-miscreants-101640633392495.html
28-12-2021||Chandigarh||Sahibzada Day will inspire us to fight against tyranny: Yogi||LUCKNOW : Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath observed Sahibzada Day at his official residence on Monday and remembered the martyrdom of four sons (Sahibzadas) of Guru Gobind Singh – the 10th guru of the Sikhs. He said Maharaja Ranjit Singh (the first ruler of the Sikh empire in the early half of 19th century) brought two tonnes of gold and transformed the Kashi Vishwanath Temple into “Golden Kashi Vishwanath Temple”. “Aurangzeb destroyed the temple, but Maharaja Ranjit Singh made it golden. The new India must decide whether Aurangzeb deserves being respected or the great Maharaja Ranjit Singhji. The Sikhs are a great inspiration for the new India,” said the CM. “Who does not know that Aurangzeb wanted the Sahibzade of Guru Gobind Singh to renounce their faith and abandon the teachings of their Guru? But they chose getting buried alive to protect the country,” said the CM. He said it was the divine tradition of Sikh gurus that never allowed anti-Sanatan Dharma intentions of foreign terrorists to succeed. “From Guru Nanak to Guru Gobind Singh, Sikhism is a wonderful amalgamation of power with devotion. This divine tradition had come to save India. Sahibzada Day will always inspire us to fight against tyranny and unrighteousness,” said Adityanath, adding that the existence of those who came with the intention of converting India to Islam had been erased. “Sikh tradition should be adopted in every Hindu household and should not be limited to gurdwaras,” he added. Wearing a saffron turban, the CM followed the rituals to commemorate the day. Accompanied by other ministers and officials, he also performed a ‘parikrama’ carrying the Guru Granth Sahib. On the occasion, the CM cited many historical events – from Babur to Aurangzeb’s reign. “Terrorists tried to convert the whole country to Islam and enslave India when Babur attacked India, but his intention was not allowed to be fulfilled by the Sikh gurus,” he said. He further said that the Sikh community was known for its dedication towards the nation. “It is well known who drove the Kashmiri Hindus and Pandits away from the Valley. But Guru Teg Bahadur Ji Maharaj was the one who protected the Kashmiri Pandits in the country,” stated Adityanath. In the presence of several dignitaries of the Sikh society, the CM also talked about efforts for the restoration of historically important gurdwaras in the state and the establishment of a museum focused on the tradition of Sikh Gurus. Notably, UP is the first state to observe Sahibzada Diwas since 2020 when chief minister Yogi Adityanath announced that the sacrifice of the Sikh Gurus should be part of the school curriculum.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/sahibzada-day-will-inspire-us-to-fight-against-tyranny-yogi-101640633332570.html
28-12-2021||Chandigarh||AAP’s victory in Chandigarh civic polls sign of ensuing change in Punjab: Kejri||Chandigarh: With the AAP emerging as the leading party winning 14 of 35 wards in the Chandigarh municipal corporation polls, its national convener and Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Monday said the party’s victory is a sign of the ensuing change in Punjab, which will go to assembly polls early next year.Congratulating his party’s winning candidates and workers, Kejriwal also said the people of Chandigarh have chosen “honest politics” of the AAP, rejecting the “corrupt politics” of its rival parties.The BJP, which enjoyed a majority in the previous municipal corporation House, came a close second registering win in 12 wards, while the Congress bagged eight seats and the Shiromani Akali Dal one.“The victory of Aam Aadmi Party in Chandigarh municipal corporation is a sign of ensuing change in Punjab. People of Chandigarh have today chosen honest politics of AAP, rejecting the corrupt politics,” Kejriwal tweeted.“Many congratulations to all the winning candidates and workers of the AAP. Punjab is ready for change,” he added.Terming the Chandigarh municipal corporation polls as just a trailer, AAP leader and party’s Punjab affairs co-incharge Raghav Chadha said the full picture is yet to come during Punjab assembly elections.He thanked the people of Chandigarh for giving chance to the AAP, which contested elections here for the first time. He assured Chandigarh residents of clean governance.AAP’s Punjab chief and Sangrur MP Bhagwant Mann said people of the City Beautiful have given a historical verdict and proved that in democracy, electors are powerful than leaders.Where Chandigarh residents proven that they like politics of development, Mann said that people of Punjab has already made their mind to give chance to AAP by ditching traditional parties.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/aaps-victory-in-chandigarh-civic-polls-sign-of-ensuing-change-in-punjab-kejri-101640633212720.html
28-12-2021||Noida||Gautam Budh Nagar: 35 restaurants distribute winter wear, meals to 650 slum kids||At least 35 restaurant owners from Gautam Budh Nagar have distributed meals and winter wear among nearly 650 underprivileged children at slums in Noida on Sunday (December 26), said officials on Monday.The move came as part of an initiative -- Santa’s Cause -- by the National Restaurants Association of India (NRAI), where restaurants owners in the district were urged to donate 10% of their food bills during December. Varun Khera, head of NRAI (Noida Chapter), said, “Most of the children wait for Christmas and New Year’s Day, and the gifts which come along... So, 35 restaurants in Noida, which are members of the NRAI, decided to become Santa for the underprivileged children at Noida slums. Together, we distributed winter wear, gifts, and meals to nearly 650 children at Bajipur slum in Noida Sector 63 on Sunday, with the help of non-governmental organisation (NGO) Rouble Nagi Art Foundation.” Karandeep Sodhi Khera, owner of a restaurant in Noida Sector 18, said, “This is the busiest time of the year in our industry, and it is our duty to contribute as much as we can to the society. All donations raised by the restaurants were used for providing meals and rations to the underprivileged children during this festive season.”The NRAI carried out the initiative across India, including cities like Delhi, Gurugram, Mumbai and Kolkata, on Saturday and Sunday.
28-12-2021||Mumbai||BMC to deploy more marshals||MUMBAI: Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) is set to increase its deployment of marshals across all 24 administrative wards in the city from the current 700 to an unspecified number to control crowds as well as monitor mask violations in public places. A senior official said a majority of these marshals will be deployed at beaches and prominent promenades in Mumbai on December 31 and January 1. According to data, BMC booked 15,144 people on December 25 and 26 for not wearing masks at public places, and collected ₹30.28 lakh in fines. The most number of violators (2,429) were fined in the A ward that includes the Marine Drive promenade, followed by 670 violators at H/West ward that covers the Bandra area. Dr Sangeeta Hasnale, deputy municipal commissioner, solid waste management (SWM) department, said, “We studied the footfalls patterns in public places during the Christmas weekend, and we will deploy more marshals in such areas. These include city beaches and promenades where we see heavy human traffic during the festive holidays.” The SWM department is responsible for appointing marshals and penalising people for not covering their faces. A civic official said most of the people fined during the festive weekend were either revellers or tourists in Bandra, Marine Drive and Girgaon Chowpatty. The official said that marshals will be allotted shifts for this weekend so that they can work at night as well. He said, “On the night of December 31, a lot of people gather at beaches and promenades. Even though there are some restrictions and celebrations are banned, we don’t want to risk anything. Besides beaches and open spaces, we will also deploy marshals in areas with bars and restaurants. We have fined a significant number of people at pubs for not covering their faces.” Suresh Kakani, additional municipal commissioner, BMC, said “A ward is a business district where the floating population is more than the actual population. The high number of violators over there clearly shows that those who were fined on Christmas weekend were not regular visitors as all the offices and other commercial establishments remain closed during weekends.” He said ward officials have been instructed to remain vigilant and take necessary action whenever there is any breach of conduct. “We have instructed all the 24 ward officers to ensure micro-level planning,” he said, after a review meeting with the municipal commissioner on Monday. At the meeting, Iqbal Singh Chahal, municipal commissioner said, “We have only restricted mass gatherings at public places and gardens between 9pm and 6am. Besides this, everything is operating normally. Our only request is that all the local people including the restaurant associations should not flout rules and allow unnecessary crowd within their premises,” said Chahal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/bmc-to-deploy-more-marshals-101640633153994.html
28-12-2021||Kolkata||4 municipal corporation elections in West Bengal on Jan 22, results on Jan 25||KOLKATA: The West Bengal State Election Commission on Monday announced polls in four civic bodies in the state including Asansol, Bidhannagar, Siliguri and Chandannagar on January 22. Counting will be held on January 25. The announcement triggered protests from opposition parties including the Bharatiya Janata Party, Congress and CPIM, which also walked out of the all-party meeting held by the panel earlier in the day.“The model code of conduct will come into force from Monday evening. The nomination process will start from Tuesday, and the last date of nomination is January 3. There are around two million electors in the four civic bodies,” SK Das, commissioner of the state poll panel, said.West Bengal governor Jagdeep Dhakhar, said in a Twitter post that though the Howrah Municipal Corporation (Amendment) Bill, which proposes to carve out Bally municipality from Howrah Municipal Corporation (HMC), is still pending, the poll panel can hold HMC polls with 66 wards as in 2015.The opposition too upped the ante against the poll panel questioning why elections were only being held in four civic bodies and Howrah was not included in the list when the state government recently told the Calcutta high court that elections to five civic bodies including Howrah will be held in January. “They (SEC) and state government… have decided not to allow the new electors (who turns 18 in January 2022) to cast their vote. The BJP boycotted the all-party meeting,” said Arjun Singh, BJP MP. “The SEC is doing everything to favour the ruling party. We are not a party to this decision. We have boycotted the all-party meeting,” said Rabin Deb, CPIM leader.The poll panel, however, said that the dates of the elections were fixed in consultation with the state government as per law.“Civic elections are announced in consultation with the state government. We are not holding the elections to the Howrah Municipal Corporation for now as we have not heard anything on this from the state government. We have adopted the electoral roll published by the Election Commission of Indi which was updated on November 1, 2021,” Das said.Elections in another 119 municipal bodies, which are pending for more than a year, are likely to be held in February 2022. Earlier this month West Bengal’s ruling Trinamool Congress (TMC) swept the Kolkata Municipal Corporation (KMC) polls by winning 134 out of 144 wards. The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) finished second with three seats. The Congress and the Left won two wards each.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/4-municipal-corporation-elections-in-west-bengal-on-jan-22-results-on-jan-25-101640633152576.html
28-12-2021||Chandigarh||Haryana cabinet expansion today||The council of ministers in Haryana will be expanded on Tuesday with an MLA each from the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and the Jannayak Janta Party (JJP) likely to be inducted as ministers.The swearing-in has been scheduled for Tuesday afternoon at Haryana Raj Bhawan, a tweet from the Haryana chief minister’s office said.Sources said two BJP MLAs Kamal Gupta and Gian Chand Gupta were in the reckoning for a ministerial berth while JJP MLA Devender Babli is also likely to be accommodated. The expansion will also necessitate shuffling of portfolios.The council of ministers already has 12 members including the chief minister. While there can be a maximum of 13 ministers, including the CM in the Haryana council of ministers, as per Article 164 (1A) of the Constitution, successive governments have been flouting the constitutional cap by rounding off the 13.5% figure and inducting 14 ministers, including the CM.The Constitution states that the total number of ministers, including the CM in the council of ministers in a state, shall not exceed 15% of the total number of MLAs, thus meaning that Haryana cannot have more than 13 ministers including the CM.Ten MLAs were inducted in the cabinet on November 14, 2019 after the CM and his deputy were sworn-in on October 27, 2019 thus, forming a BJP-JJP coalition government.In the present scheme of things, the BJP has nine ministers including CM Manohar Lal Khattar and its post poll alliance partner, the JJP has two ministers including deputy CM Dushyant Chautala. Rania MLA Ranjit Singh is the lone independent MLA inducted as a minister.Deputy CM Dushyant Chautala, who holds at least seven top-of-the-line portfolios, will have to let go a few after Tuesday’s expansion. Portfolios of some BJP ministers could also be shuffled.In the 2019 assembly elections, the BJP could win only 40 of the 90 seats, thus falling six short of a simple majority. Subsequently, it formed the government with the support of 10 JJP MLAs and independents.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/haryana-cabinet-expansion-today-101640633092462.html
28-12-2021||Chandigarh||Derogatory remarks: UT DSP demands apology from Sidhu||Chandigarh: A Chandigarh deputy superintendent of police (DSP) has sought a public apology from Punjab Congress chief Navjot Singh Sidhu for his alleged derogatory remarks against the force. DSP Dilsher Singh Chandel has sent a legal notice to Sidhu in which he has sought public apology from him for making derogatory remarks against the police on December 18 at a public rally in Sultanpur Lodhi. Earlier, reacting to Sidhu’s video in which he had purportedly made some insulting remarks against the police while praising a well-built youth, Chandel said the leader forgo his security cover. “It is shameful that senior leaders humiliate the force which is guarding them and their family. If this is so, return the force (security cover) and move without them in public. Without force, even a rickshaw-puller will not listen to them,” said Chandel.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/derogatory-remarks-ut-dsp-demands-apology-from-sidhu-101640632973887.html
28-12-2021||Mumbai||Surge continues for 7th consecutive day; Mumbai reports 789 new cases, 11 new Omicron variant cases||MUMBAI: After six consecutive days of rise in Covid-19 cases, the city reported 789 new cases on Monday. This indicates that the surge has been continuous although the number of new cases on Monday was marginally lower than that on Sunday (896). A positivity rate of 1.68% was reported on Monday.On Monday, 788 cases were reported taking the tally to 771,698 and three deaths which took the death toll to 16,373. The city reported a 96% recovery rate with 747,997 recoveries, while the mortality rate was 2.12%. There are 4,765 active cases in the city. Additionally, 11 new Omicron variant Covid-19 cases have been reported in the city, taking the count to 84.According to BMC officials, there is possibility of a further increase to 4,000 to 5,000 cases being reported daily if the same growth pattern continues for the next few days. As per data, a major spike has been reported since December 21 when more than 300 cases were reported, followed by close to 500 cases on December 22, and more than 800 cases in the last two days breaking the records of the past six months.A senior BMC official said, “If the same trend of a similar spike continues, the daily caseload might soon touch the 4,000 to 5,000 mark. However, we will have to wait and watch.” Despite a spike in the number of cases, BMC officials said they could not call it the beginning of a third wave, yet.Suresh Kakani, additional municipal commissioner of the BMC said, “This is too early to say whether the rise in cases is a sign of the third wave because most of the cases that are reported are either asymptomatic or with mild symptoms. The number of daily cases is fluctuating and there is no consistent trend. We will wait and watch the situation for the next one week before coming to any conclusion.”The Maharashtra Covid-19 taskforce members said that they will monitor the situation on a weekly basis for the next few days.Dr Rahul Pandit, director of critical care at Fortis Hospital and member of the state Covid-19 taskforce said, “There cannot be any projections for the surge or spike at this moment. We will have to wait for another 10 to 14 days to understand the pattern. Hence, we cannot assume about the beginning of a third wave right away.”“But right now, if we assume this surge is due to the Omicron variant, we will have a further spike in the number of cases. If this is Delta, we have reason to worry as hospitalisation may increase. However, this is not the time to panic but monitor the growth pattern on a weekly basis for the next few days,” Dr Pandit said.Another member of the state Covid-19 taskforce, Dr Shashank Joshi said, “We cannot assume any mathematical models right now to make any projections or assumptions. However, we need to closely monitor, considering the surge might be even bigger if this is the Omicron variant.”Meanwhile, municipal commissioner Iqbal Singh Chahal held a review meeting with BMC officials from the public health department owing to the increase in the number of cases in the city over the past few days. Chahal directed officials to stay vigilant and ensure the availability of beds and oxygen supply, in case of a sudden spike. According to BMC officials, during the second wave, the highest oxygen requirement was 210 MT per day. However, if the need arises at present, the BMC can arrange 650 MT of oxygen on a daily basis with its storage capacity being 1,100 MT per day.Chahal directed aggressive testing of citizens in case of symptoms; jumbo centres to ensure ready availability of medical equipment in case of a surge; and the purchase department to procure medicines that might be required in case of a surge. Chahal also directed officials to make appropriate manpower arrangements at ward war rooms, including an adequate number of ambulances and the staff required to operate them.Whereas the BMC on Monday said that from January 3 onwards, it is planning to start vaccination camps inside colleges and university campuses in the city for vaccinating students in the age group of 15 to 18 years. The BMC said that it has already written to Mumbai university and sought a list of eligible students. According to BMC officials, the camps will be arranged by local ward offices. These camps will be exclusively for students below 18 years of age, who will be inoculated on a priority basis. Initially, one or two camps will be arranged in the wards depending on the population density and colleges present there. If the footfalls are higher, the number of camps may be increased in future.With inputs from Pratip Acharya||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/surge-continues-for-7th-consecutive-day-mumbai-reports-789-new-cases-11-new-omicron-variant-cases-101640632972447.html
28-12-2021||Mumbai||BMC to award ₹22 cr contract for the construction of Malabar Hill treetop walkway||The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) is set to award a ₹22 crores contract to a private contractor for the construction of a 700-metre-long treetop walkway at Malabar Hill in South Mumbai.According to the proposal, the walkway will provide an uninterrupted view to the citizens of the Arabian Sea over the green cover of the Malabar Hills. This walkway will be similar to the treetop skywalks present at Singapore. The walkway will be 705 metres long, 1.5 metre high and 2.5 metres wide. The BMC had invited tenders for this project back in August 2021, however the estimated cost of the project was pegged at ₹12.66 crs back then.In the proposal to be tabled at the standing committee, the BMC said that only one contractor responded to the bid and that the contractor demanded ₹18.99 crs for taking up the project which was almost 50% higher than the estimated price. The BMC said that on further negotiation the contractor was ready to work at ₹17.73 crs which is 40 percent higher than the estimated cost and the overall cost of this project including tax rates presently stand at ₹22.49 crs.“The project will take place at a silent zone which is why the works could be carried out only during limited hours of the day. Due to this more labourers will be required to complete the job during the estimated deadline. Besides this the slopes of Malabar Hills is an eco-sensitive zone and construction work over there will be risky and more advanced machineries will be used. These factors automatically escalated the cost,” said an official.The proposal will be tabled in the standing Committee on Wednesday and work orders will be issued after the committee clears the proposal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/bmc-to-award-22-cr-contract-for-the-construction-of-malabar-hill-treetop-walkway-101640632852671.html
28-12-2021||Noida||Noida administration increases Covid testing and tracking amid increase in cases||The district health department has increased random and focused testing in Noida amid an increase in the daily count of Covid cases, said officials on Monday. Nearly 2,500 to 3,000 Covid tests are being conducted in the district daily, as compared to 1,500 tests conducted per day till a week ago, said the officials, adding that the increase in the number of cases could be due to the higher number of tests being conducted at present. “All travellers from ‘at-risk’ countries are being tested after eight days of their arrival to India, and other travellers from abroad and within the country are also being tested randomly. Surveillance teams are also testing more people at present. For every positive case, an average of 17 contacts are being traced in the district,” said Suhas LY, district magistrate. He also said that with New Year celebrations around the corner, officials concerned have been asked to enforce night curfew and other Covid protocols strictly, to ensure people’s safety. “Though Covid cases being reported are still not very high, the pandemic is not yet over. I hope people remember this while they celebrate different occasions,” he added. Total 113 Covid cases have been reported in the district during December, which is nearly double the cases reported last month. All the patients are in home isolation, except for a few travellers who had to be isolated mandatorily.“Preparing for more Covid cases essentially involves tracing and testing, along with having sufficient oxygen beds for severe coronavirus cases. Since Covid cases have been increasing this month, all patients have been either asymptomatic or have had mild symptoms, which did not need institutional treatment... Even if we get severe Covid cases, our oxygen preparedness has been enhanced by now... From the type of infrastructure we had during the second wave of Covid, our capacity is nearly eight times now, within six months,” Suhas LY said, adding that nearly 3,000-odd oxygen beds were occupied at the peak of second Covid wave, around April and May.He also said that the Covid Hospital in Noida Sector 39 is kept reserved only for Covid patients and has a capacity of nearly 200 beds. The capacity can be increased to nearly 400 beds, depending on the demand. The administration has readied 4,461 beds at 31 hospitals for Covid care, which will be made available as the demand increases. Of these, 618 are ICU beds and 440 are paediatric beds. “We were among the first districts in Uttar Pradesh to prepare a contingency plan. We have had discussions with private hospitals and briefed them about the situation and have also asked them to get all their staff fully vaccinated,” said Dr Sunil Sharma, chief medical officer (CMO). He said that even if the number of Covid cases increases, the situation can be easily managed if the infections continue to be mild or asymptomatic.On Monday, the district reported five fresh Covid cases, taking the active caseload to 56. 113 cases have been reported in the district during December, and the positivity rate is still lower at 0.7% in Noida.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/noida-administration-increases-covid-testing-and-tracking-amid-increase-in-cases-101640632733018.html
28-12-2021||Mumbai||IITB’s 1996 batch pledges ₹17 crore to institute||Mumbai: The 1996 batch of the Indian Institute of Technology Bombay (IITB) on Sunday pledged ₹17 crore towards the legacy project which was announced as part of the annual alumni day celebrations.This fund will be utilised for several projects, largely related to students’ well-being, scholarship programmes for deserving students, the upgradation of facilities across hostels, etc.The institute also launched their annual fundraiser campaign called GO IIT Bombay, funds from which will be used for enhancing undergraduate lab facilities to further experiential learning, young faculty awards to attract bright minds to join the faculty body, among others, read an official statement of the institute.“The alumni of IITB initiated a project to build a world-class hostel on campus in place of Hostel 8. Along with this, a hostel for women, Hostel 21, will also be constructed,” the statement read.The legacy project is a project adopted by the alumni to mark the silver jubilee of the institute and look for ways to give back to the alma mater. In the past few years, the silver jubilee batch of the institute has been raising and donating funds to the institute. The batch of 1995 had pledged a sum of ₹20.3 crores towards the betterment of the institute. Similarly, the batches before that have pledged similar amounts.Every year, the silver jubilee batch of the institute pledges money toward their legacy project--a project adopted by the batch celebrating its 25th anniversary for the betterment of the institute and the people associated with it.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/iitbs-1996-batch-pledges-17-crore-to-institute-101640632674556.html
28-12-2021||Lucknow||Three-day Kashi Film Festival begins||UP tourism and religious affairs minister Dr Neelkanth Tiwari on Monday said that the development of Kashi is proving to be the benchmark for the country. He was speaking at the inaugural ceremony of the three-day Kashi film festival which began at the Varanasi International Cooperation and Convention Centre here on Monday.Since the inauguration of the Kashi Vishwanath Corridor on December 13, celebrations and programs are being organized every day in Kashi. In this sequence, the Uttar Pradesh government has decided to celebrate the Kashi Film Festival, screen films and invite artists associated with Kashi.Shri Kashi Vishwanath Dham Corridor’s grandeur has been a surprise to the entire world, he added.Gorakhpur MP said that everyday development works are being inaugurated and the foundation stone of a new one is being laid, whose benefits are directly going to the public. He said, public funds are being used for public works during the time of PM Narendra Modi.While honouring the guests, additional chief secretary information Navneet Sehgal said that Uttar Pradesh is making a leading position in the field of development. Film production is being promoted in the state and film industries are being built in Noida’s Jewar. Surely this will give a boost to the maximum possibilities of film production in the state.On this occasion, Anupam Kher, Bhojpuri actor Khesari Lal, actor Satish Kaushik as well as President of Indian Film and Television Directors Association Ashok Pandit, Federation of Western India Cine Employees General Secretary Ashok Dubey and others were present.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/threeday-kashi-film-festival-begins-101640632672682.html
28-12-2021||Mumbai||‘Construction of school on Ulhas River floodplains worrisome’||Mumbai: City-based environment group Vanashakti on Monday wrote to authorities, including chief minister Uddhav Thackeray, raising alarm over continued constructions within the high flood line of the Ulhas River in Badlapur, Thane district. Encroachment in the form of a private school is the latest to crop up in the region, despite previous orders of the National Green Tribunal prohibiting any building activity on the floodplains, in addition to an amusement park and several real estate projects pointed out Vanashakti (a petitioner in Bombay High Court, seeking to revive the water body).“On June 20, 2020, we had intimated that a wall was made on the river banks and reclamation was underway, however, we find that no action was taken and instead a full-fledged school is coming up on the river banks inside the high flood line of Ulhas River. Similarly, it has been seen that in the last five years, more and more areas of Badlapur are being inundated in monsoon due to the overflowing of the river. Instead of keeping the flood line intact and inviolate, more constructions are being encouraged,” wrote Stalin D, director, Vanashakti on Monday.These developments are particularly concerning, environmentalists said, in light of the Maharashtra government’s recent move to reduce the Ulhas’ flood line. In a Right to Information (RIT) response last month, the state government confirmed to Navi Mumbai-based environment group NatConnect Foundation that there is a plan on the cards to redraw the river’s flood line in Badlapur, at the behest of the urban development department. A meeting had been held on October 5 and presided over by state UD minister Eknath Shinde, who asked the state irrigation department to rework the flood line in Badlapur. However, the minutes of this meeting were not shared with Nat Connect, on grounds that there has not been any official decision on the matter.“Such a move will be disastrous for lives and property. In 2019, Ulhasnagar and surrounding regions in Badlapur, Thane, Kalyan, Diva, Mumbra and Asangaon came under the spotlight due to unprecedented flooding, which can almost certainly be attributed to constructions within the river’s floodplains. These were made possible because in 2015 the Maharashtra government scrapped its River Regulatory Zone (RRZ) policy, which prevented constructions up to 2kms from the flood line of all rivers. We need to bring these regulations back before the situation grows worse,” said BN Kumar, director of Nat Connect Foundation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/construction-of-school-on-ulhas-river-floodplains-worrisome-101640632495625.html
28-12-2021||Chandigarh||Jallianwala massacre: Scotland Yard probes video showing Sikh declaring to assassinate Queen||London: A video has surfaced on social media in which a fully masked man, identifying himself as an Indian Sikh, is seen declaring to “assassinate” Queen Elizabeth II to avenge the 1919 Jallianwala Bagh massacre, prompting Scotland Yard to launch a probe, days after an intruder was arrested at the monarch’s Windsor Castle.The video, shared on Snapshot, is that of a fully masked man who identifies himself as Indian Sikh Jaswant Singh Chail and declares that he wants to “assassinate” the monarch in revenge for the 1919 Jallianwala Bagh massacre, according to The Sun newspaper which obtained the video.Meanwhile, the 19-year-old intruder, who has not yet been named by the Metropolitan Police, is now being held over mental health issues.Scotland Yard officers were investigating the video reportedly linked to the intruder armed with a crossbow arrested at Windsor Castle on Christmas Day.The Metropolitan Police said the arrested suspect has been sectioned under the UK’s Mental Health Act after a mental health assessment and remains “in the care of medical professionals”.“I’m sorry. I’m sorry for what I’ve done and what I will do. I will attempt to assassinate Elizabeth, Queen of the Royal Family,” the masked man is seen saying in the video.“This is revenge for those who have died in the 1919 Jallianwala Bagh massacre. It is also revenge for those who have been killed, humiliated and discriminated on because of their race. I’m an Indian Sikh, a Sikh. My name was Jaswant Singh Chail, my name is Darth Jones,” he says.The massacre took place at Jallianwala Bagh in Amritsar during Baisakhi in April 1919 when the British Indian Army under the command of Colonel Reginald Dyer opened fire at a crowd staging a pro-Independence demonstration, leaving scores dead.In the video clip posted on The Sun website, the ‘Star Wars’ film-like masked figure holds a shiny black weapon and speaks in a distorted voice.It was reportedly sent to followers of the man’s Snapchat account 24 minutes before armed security officers arrested him near the 95-year-old Queen’s private apartments.In a message sent on Snapchat alongside the video, the teenager wrote: “I’m sorry to all of those who I have wronged or lied to. If you have received this then my death is near. Please share this with whoever and if possible, get it to the news if they’re interested.” Police are also carrying out searches at a housing estate in Southampton, where the suspect reportedly lived with his family.“A 19-year-old man from Southampton was arrested on suspicion of breach or trespass of a protected site and possession of an offensive weapon,” Met Police said in a statement.“Following a search of the man, a crossbow was recovered. The man was taken into custody and has undergone a mental health assessment – he has since been sectioned under the Mental Health Act and remains in the care of medical professionals.“Inquiries into the full circumstances of this incident are being progressed by Metropolitan Police Specialist Operations,” the statement added.Prince Charles and wife Camilla are spending Christmas with the monarch at Windsor Castle in Berkshire, south-east England, after she took the decision to call off her traditional Christmas at Sandringham estate in Norfolk amidst a surge in COVID-19 cases.Officers from Thames Valley and the Metropolitan Police said they responded to the breach on Saturday morning and arrested the man from Southampton.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/jallianwala-massacre-scotland-yard-probes-video-showing-sikh-declaring-to-assassinate-queen-101640632493721.html
28-12-2021||Lucknow||Kashi textile traders, weavers protest against GST hike||The Kashi readymade garments association, weavers and textile traders on Monday staged a demonstration in protest against the proposed GST hike on various textile products from 5 per cent to 12 per cent. The traders and weavers unanimously demanded that government should roll back the proposed GST hike on various textile products.Recently, in the GST counselling meeting chaired by union finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman, it has been decided to increase the GST to 12 per cent from 5 per cent on readymade garments and footwear worth up to ₹1000 with effect from January 1, 2022. This change will adversely affect the business of retailers and wholesalers that are already passing through a bad phase due to subsequent two waves of Covid-19, said Shailesh Jaiswal, president of Kashi readymade garments association.A very large section of the country’s population buys this category of apparel and footwear, whereas 2 years ago because of the inequalities and difficulties of GST in this business, the GST on these items were reduced from 12 and 18 to 5%. As a result of the above decision, a huge increase in tax collection and sales was seen and many companies were forced to offer products in the MRP range up to ₹ 1000. Consequently, the government, manufacturers, traders, and the public were greatly benefited, said Jaiswal.In the name of tax restructuring in the GST Council, the decision to increase the GST of apparel and footwear from January 1, 2022, is completely impractical and illogical, said Patron Mahanagar Udyog Vyapar Samiti, Srinarayan Khemka. The proposed GST hike on various textile products is very painful for all the manufacturers, traders and public of the country, added Khemka.Traders will have to pay GST on the remaining stock unsold by January 1, 2022, which is not justified. We strongly oppose such hikes, said the general secretary of the association, Kailash Yadav and added that they unanimously oppose the decision to hike GST on textile products.Babu Bhai, a master weaver said, “Two subsequent waves of Covid-19 created a sort of disappointment in the entire textile sector. The outbreak of the second wave of Covid-19 calmed down. However, disappointment prevailed in the market till August. Since September, the market slightly improved as the traders from states like Andhra Pradesh, Telangana, Karnataka, Maharashtra placed new orders for silk yarn sarees weaved here. As soon as a few cases of Omicron were confirmed in Karnataka, most of the traders cancelled their orders. There is a slowdown like situation in the textile market again. Weavers are struggling to make both ends meet.”As soon as the proposed GST rate will be implemented, the prices of clothes will increase or go costlier due to which demand will dip which have to eventually compel to reduce production. Thus, the GST hike will cost dear to the weavers and many weavers would lose their jobs, he said and demanded that the government should roll back the proposed hike in GST on different textile products.Zubair Adil, general secretary of Bunkar Udyog Madal an organisation that works for the cause of weavers, said that if the new GST rates are implemented, the weavers will suffer badly. Around 3 lakh weavers are associated with the Banarasi silk and Banarasi clothes industry in the entire Varanasi region. The government should think of them.Manish Choubey, Anjani Mishra, Shri Vyapar Mandal Pandeypur President Hriday Gupta, Satish Gupta, Kamal Rupani, Shiva Agrahari, Amrish Nigam, Vijay Jaiswal Bhojubir Business Board President Om Prakash Gupta, Kishan Seth etc were present.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/kashi-textile-traders-weavers-protest-against-gst-hike-101640632432697.html
28-12-2021||Lucknow||Leopard may have gone back to its habitat, but Lucknow residents told to remain alert||LUCKNOW The leopard spotted in Lucknow’s Adil Nagar and Kalyanpur might have left these residential areas via a safe passage and found its way back to the forest area, said forest department officials who had been making efforts to rescue the feline for the past two days. The big cat seen on Friday night and Saturday morning had reportedly injured three people. “The leopard has not been seen in Adilnagar and Kalyanpur areas for the past 36 hours, the patrol teams have confirmed,” said divisional forest officer Ravi Kumar Singh, in a press statement on Monday. Though forest officials could not trace the animal, five patrol teams were still deployed in the areas as a precaution. “Among wild animals, leopards travel long distances in a short time. On getting safe passage, they can return to their natural habitat soon, if not terrorised unwarrantedly,” said Singh. He said reports of more than one leopard in these areas were baseless. Rescue operation was conducted at Presidency Inter College and an attempt was made to facilitate the animal’s way into the forest area 500 metres away. The department also advised locals to remain alert. “We are alert and avoiding going out at night. The animal will probably come out at night and escape into the jungle,” said Nityanand Mall, a resident of Sector-H, Jankipuram. Forest officials said people should move out of their homes in groups and keep a stick in their hand. Children should be kept inside and domestic animals should also not be left in the open. If people come across a wild animal, they should not chase or try to catch/harm it. If they spot an animal, locals can report it to regional forest official, Kukrail on mobile number 7839434285. MOVEMENT RECORDED Dec 24 – 60 feet Road, Jankipuram, 11 pm Dec 25 –In CCTV grab of SR Hospital and Pooja Nursing Home (Kalyanpur), 1am Dec 25 – Presidency School CCTV grab, 4pm Dec 25 – In an empty plot in Kalyanpur, 6pm||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/leopard-may-have-gone-back-to-its-habitat-but-lucknow-residents-told-to-remain-alert-101640632012698.html
28-12-2021||Mumbai||Jumbos start re-hiring staff, hospitals on standby as daily cases rise||MUMBAI: Mumbai’s jumbo Covid-19 facilities that went into hibernation after the second wave receded have now started rehiring medical, housekeeping and other staff. The surge in daily cases in Mumbai since the past six days and circulation of the highly mutated Omicron variant has prompted reactivation of all jumbo facilities in a phased manner.For instance, the 3,500-bed NESCO jumbo facility at Goregaon on Monday appointed eight doctors, 10 nurses and 20 ward boys. The facility plans to take the total staff strength to 39 doctors in the ward and 38 doctors in the intensive care unit (ICU); 50 nurses; and 63 ward boys even as provision has been made to hire more staff over the next few days if the need arises. Dr Neelam Andrade, dean of the facility, said, “Our occupancy for the past several weeks was merely 10 to 15 but in the last two days, the occupancy has increased to 39. As of now, we have built the strength to cater to 150 patients, but we can promptly appoint more people if the need arises.” During the second wave, the overall staff strength of the NESCO facility was 1,800.The staff in jumbo facilities is hired on a contractual basis with a majority being hired on three-monthly contracts. In addition to NESCO, the other jumbo facilities are located at Bandra-Kurla Complex (BKC), Dahisar, Marol, Mulund, Byculla and Worli. Of these, NESCO, BKC, Marol, Byculla and Worli have been reactivated while the rest have been kept on alert.Dr Rajesh Dere, dean of the BKC facility, said, “We had nearly 233 doctors and 300 staff nurses and ward boys during the second wave. We will be going back to the same staff strength by the first week of January. We have already started reappointing manpower.” Dr Dere said that about 150 doctors and 100 ward boys have already been hired.The bigger hospitals in the city like KEM hospital at Parel, LTMG hospital at Sion, and BYL Nair at Mumbai Central have also been kept as backup for serious patients. Dr Ramesh Bharmal, dean of BYL Nair hospital said, “At the moment, the patients will be sent to the five jumbo facilities that have been reactivated, and if need be, all the bigger hospitals will also take in patients, similar to the second wave. All jumbo facilities have taken stock of their medicines and oxygen.”The 24 war rooms corresponding to the city’s 24 wards which had played a crucial role during both waves of Covid-19 in coordinating between patients and hospitals for beds have also started rehiring staff on call. Each war room had a staff strength of 15 to 20 people but the strength was reduced to half. “We had many teachers and medical interns who were let go for their duties, but all ward war rooms will be back to their original strength by January 15,” said Mahesh Narvekar, chief of BMC’s disaster management unit.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/jumbos-start-re-hiring-staff-hospitals-on-standby-as-daily-cases-rise-101640631772408.html
28-12-2021||Delhi||Delhi’s South civic body project to provide cloth bags at 14 key markets||In an effort to cut down people’s dependence on single-use plastics, the South Delhi Municipal Corporation (SDMC) initiated a project to provide cloth bags in 14 key south Delhi markets. An SDMC spokesperson said that visitors can get the bags for ₹20 from stalls at the markets, run by NGOs roped in for the purpose, and the money will be reimbursed when they return the bags at the counter.The official said that 22 stalls, where these cloth bags can be taken and returned, will be set up in 14 markets, including Green Park, Yusuf Sarai, Hauz Khas, SDA, Saket, Aurobindo Market and Greater Kailash.“SDMC south zone, in collaboration with ‘Why Waste Wednesday Foundation’ NGO, has started a programme named ‘Vikalp’ against single-use plastic. Under Swachh Survekshan-2022, Vikalp stalls are being set up in various markets. WWWF has made arrangements of cloth bags at these stalls... The customer can return the bag at the stall after using it and get refund of the money. There is no time limit to return these bags,” said an SDMC South zone official.SDMC deputy commissioner Dr Ankita Chakravarty said that banners have been pasted at shops in the markets so that customers can access this facility. “Each counter has a QR code through which the customer can get information about the Vikalp stall. People will know about bad effects of single-use plastic and laws related to plastic waste management under this initiative,” she added.Delhi is estimated to generate over 690 metric tonnes (MT) of plastic waste each day, higher than Mumbai (408MT/day) and Kolkata (426MT/day).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhis-south-civic-body-project-to-provide-cloth-bags-at-14-key-markets-101640631652882.html
28-12-2021||Noida||250,000 people in the 15-18 age group to be administered Covid jab in Ghaziabad||Nearly 250,000 people in the age group of 15-18 years in Ghaziabad would be administered the Covid-19 vaccines, which is likely to begin from January 3 next year, estimated officials of the district health department on Monday.In an address to the nation on December 25, Prime Minister Narendra Modi announced that vaccination for people in the age group of 15-18 years will begin from January 3, 2022; and “precaution dose” of the Covid-19 vaccines will be administered to healthcare and frontline workers from January 10, and to people (suffering from co-morbidities) above 60 years of age from January 10 -- only if advisable by doctors. “Based on official figures, nearly 250,000 children in the age group of 15-18 would be administered the Covid-19 vaccines in the district after the process starts... We have administered both the doses of the vaccines to 326,787 senior citizens so far, and they will also be eligible for the ‘precaution dose’ accordingly,” said Dr GP Mathuria, nodal officer for Covid vaccination in the district. According to the figures, Ghaziabad has an overall target of administering 2,702,167 doses of Covid-19 vaccines to target beneficiaries like healthcare workers and frontline workers, besides beneficiaries under the 18+ and 45+ age group. The district, as of Monday (December 27), has administered the first dose of vaccines to 2,589,244 people, and both the doses to 1,714,583 beneficiaries under different age categories. Ghaziabad has administered both the doses to 28,591 healthcare workers and 29,247 frontline workers so far. The health department is waiting for the directions from the state government about the exact targets of vaccine doses to be administered to the children and people from other age categories, said the officials. “The directions will have exact targets for each category, and we will consider the vaccination coverage accordingly. As of now, we do not have any shortage of vaccines, and the district has the potential to vaccinate over 100,000 beneficiaries -- a target achieved during a mega vaccination drive on September 27 -- in a day. So, if the target for the 15-18 age group is around the estimation, we will be able to vaccinate maximum of them in two weeks,” said Dr Bhavtosh Shankhdhar, chief medical officer (CMO), Ghaziabad. The officials said that they will roll out a plan for the vaccination drive, which would start in January, and speed up the process to provide maximum coverage to protect beneficiaries against Covid infection. At present, Ghaziabad is witnessing a rise in the number of Covid cases, with two fresh cases reported on Monday. The total tally of active Covid cases now stands at 85 -- highest since June (324), with 57 cases reported in December alone.
28-12-2021||Noida||Issues in monitoring system of vehicles, no toll on Delhi Meerut Expressway yet||The National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) is yet to collect tolls, which was supposed to start from December 25 this year, from commuters on the Delhi Meerut Expressway (DME) after there were some technical issues with the automatic number plate reader (ANPR) system, said officials on Monday.The NHAI headquarters will give a nod for the toll collection after the issues with the ANPR system are fixed, said officials familiar with the development.The DME was opened for the public in April this year, and Union minister Nitin Gadkari formally inaugurated the project on December 23. The NHAI has finalised the toll rates at nearly ₹2.34 per kilometre travelled on the expressway, from Delhi’s Sarai Kale Khan to Kashi toll plaza in Meerut. According to the toll structure set by the authority, the toll for the full expressway route of 59.77 kilometres from Delhi to Meerut is ₹140 for light vehicles like jeeps or cars among others.“The tolling process on the DME is yet to begin, and after we get a go ahead from the NHAI headquarters, we will start with the system. We do not want inconvenience for the commuters,” said Arvind Kumar, project director of NHAI. He, however, declined to cite the reason behind the delay. Since the NHAI has implemented the ANPR system for reading registration plates of the vehicles entering or exiting the expressway lanes, the ANPR system will help deducting fare from the FASTag of passengers on the basis of distance travelled from both the points. FASTag is a device that employs RFID technology for making toll payments directly while the vehicle is in motion. FASTag (RFID Tag) is affixed on the windscreen of the vehicle and enables a customer to make the toll payments directly from the account which is linked to FASTag.According to the NHAI, the annual toll collection potential on the expressway is estimated to be nearly ₹111.39 crore with cars or jeeps or light motor vehicles accounting for nearly 82% of the traffic and bus or trucks among others, accounting for 14%. The 14-lane DME has four phases -- Phase 1 links Delhi’s Sarai Kale Khan and Ghaziabad’s UP Gate; Phase 2 connects UP Gate and Ghaziabad’s Dasna; and Phase 4 connects Dasna to Meerut through a six-lane access-controlled alignment of 32 kilometres. Phase 3, which connects Dasna to Hapur, is just the widening of the existing highway.According to official estimates, Phase 1 caters to nearly 120,000 passenger car units (PCUs) per day, 60,000 PCUs per day at Phase 2, and 40,000 PCUs per day at Phase 4.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/issues-in-monitoring-system-of-vehicles-no-toll-on-delhi-meerut-expressway-yet-101640631112171.html
28-12-2021||Noida||Jewar airport project: Farmers demand better land compensation, begin protest||Farmers from six villages where land is to be acquired in the second stage of the expansion of Jewar’s Noida International Airport project have started protesting against the administration.The process to acquire land for the second phase of the airport project will begin in January next year, district administration officials aware of the development had said on Sunday, adding that the Uttar Pradesh government has already approved the social impact assessment report for the new phase on December 17.The Gautam Budh Nagar administration is set to organise camps beginning from January 7 in villages to seek consent from farmers for the land acquisition.Around 500 farmers organised a mahapanchayat at a community centre in Ranhera village to plan their agitation on Monday if their land rates are not increased in the second stage.The state government has already handed over 1,334 hectares in Jewar to the Yamuna International Airport Private Limited (YIAPL) -- a 100% subsidiary of Zurich Airport International AG, which has been incorporated as a special purpose vehicle (SPV) to develop Jewar airport -- last year.“We are protesting against the methodology of deciding the land compensation and other rehabilitation benefits. We want four times the existing circle rates as land compensation as well as other benefits for housing land. The administration gave us two times the existing circle rate as compensation in stage one--that is not acceptable at all. If the administration will not offer us four times the circle rate, then we will not give our consent for the acquisition of the land,” said KP Singh, a farmer from Ranhera village.Farmers said that they will register their protest at the camps on January 7 and also protest on other occasions in the future.According to the Right to Fair Compensation and Transparency in Land Acquisition, Rehabilitation and Resettlement Act, 2013, the government offers four times the existing circle rate in rural areas and two times the circle rate in urban areas. These six villages, where the land is to be acquired, and where 1,334 hectares of land was already acquired under stage one, were classified as urban areas from rural by the Uttar Pradesh government in 2017.“Our main protest is regarding why our villages were included in urban areas, when it is a rural belt. It was to decide low rates for our land and to harass the farmers. In stage one, farmers were fooled, but now we will not let it happen if they will not offer us four times the circle rate,” said Dinesh Kumar, a farmer from Nagla Hukum Singh village.Land from six villages -- Karauli Bangar, Dayanatpur, Kureb, Ranhera, Mundhera and Nagla Hukum Singh villages -- will be used for setting up the second phase of the Jewar airport -- the third runway, and a commercial maintenance, repair and overhaul (MRO) of aircraft centre. MRO units ensure the service worthiness of an aircraft with facilities for inspection and maintenance. According to the agreement, the government has to provide 1,363 hectares to the subsidiary adjacent to the existing airport site for the third runway and further expansion.“The farmers have a right to demand higher compensation for their land. But the administration will evaluate the compensation rate as per the provisions of the Land Act 2013. We will seek consent from them January 7 onwards as per the rules,” said Balram Singh, additional district magistrate (land acquisition), Gautam Budh Nagar.Prime Minister Narendra Modi laid the foundation stone for the Jewar airport on November 25. The greenfield project is billed to be the largest in India, and will be the National Capital Region’s third, after the Indira Gandhi International Airport (IGIA) and the civilian terminal at Ghaziabad’s Hindon airport.Two runway pavements are being developed in the first phase, which is to be completed soon, said the officials. The project, which will be fully implemented in four separate phases, is scheduled to be done by September 29, 2024.
28-12-2021||Delhi||Common sign-in system for New Delhi’s civic body online services||The New Delhi Municipal Council (NDMC) has started a common sign-in system for all the 49 online services offered by the civic body.An NDMC spokesperson said that the single sign-on (SSO) service, which effectively lets residents make a single profile for availing services, will help in improving the access to civic services, especially during the worsening Covid situation in the Capital.“NDMC has implemented the single sign-in identity access management to improve the user experience and to enhance security to citizens as well as employees or pensioners. The users will be able to access applications through the internet and intranet. SSO will now be one digital identity to be used for all online services applications,” the council stated in an official statement on Monday.A senior official from IT department said that under this project, 49 citizen services and 3 NDMC employee services have been placed for access to avail the services through single login for which users will have to first make registrations. People can visit their website to avail the service, the official added. NDMC has claimed to be the first municipality that has implemented SSO to impart services to citizens as well as their employees. “During the lockdown period, we have increased the number of online services to eliminate the need for them to physically come to NDMC offices,” the official added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/common-sign-in-system-for-new-delhi-s-civic-body-online-services-101640630752151.html
28-12-2021||Other||Yogi govt ensured ease of doing biz in UP by eliminating goons: Nandi||Gorakhpur: Lauding Yogi Adityanath led BJP government in the state for improved law and order, UP minister of civil aviation, Nand Gopal Gupta ‘Nandi’, on Monday said that the state government had created safe, secure and favorable environment for doing businesses by eliminating goons and mafias who earlier used to create trouble for businessmen in the Samajwadi Party (SP) government. Nandi was addressing a press conference in Gorakhpur regarding “Agaz 2022”, a proposed party summit aimed at reaching out traders and businessmen of the state, scheduled for January 8 in Kanpur. “By ease of doing business in the state, the double engine government is working hard to achieve the target of five trillion economy envisioned by Prime Minister Narendra Modi. The improved law and order coupled with better infrastructure has given new pace to business activities in the state,” he said enumerating various development projects and government schemes that have helped traders. Nandi slammed the erstwhile SP regime for providing patronage to goons and added that there was terror among traders in Akhilesh regime as goons and mafias would extort money from them. The people used to say, “Jis gaadi pe Sapa ka jhanda usme baitha gunda”. (The goon sitting in the car on which the SP flag is) Responding to queries of reporters, Nandi said that UP was on the path of becoming the first state to have 17 airports, of which nine are fully functional while remaining eight were under construction. “These airports have given boost to tourism sector in the state, pushing it on the path of growth and development,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/yogi-govt-ensured-ease-of-doing-biz-in-up-by-eliminating-goons-nandi-101640630091794.html
28-12-2021||Delhi||Best of times, worst of times: Delhi’s air see-sawed in 2021||Delhi recorded 197 days this year when the AQI was 200 or lower – the highest count of such days from 2016 -- bettered only by last year (227 days), when air quality was at its cleanest due to long spells under a lockdown. However, Delhi also recorded 24 “severe” air days so far this year, same as 2019 and only one less than 2016 (25), which was the worst year in terms of winter pollution, Central Pollution Control Board data shows.The trend indicates that while the city may have got some measure of control on its air quality in the non-winter months, the Capital is still unable to control smog build-up that plunges it into a public health emergency between November and January.Till December 27 this year, Delhi witnessed a combined 164 days of poor, very poor and severe air, which, while being higher than 2020 (139), was lower -- and following a consistent trend -- when compared with 2019 (183 days), 2018 (205 days), 2017 (212 days) and 2016 (245 days).However, Delhi recorded five prominent spells of “severe” air pollution this year. The first was between January 14 and 16 when three consecutive days of severe air led to the AQI touching 460 on January 15. Three spells were then recorded in November, the first occurred from November 5 till November 7, with the AQI peaking at 461; then from November 11 to November 13 with the AQI peaking at 471; and a four-day long spell from November 25 till November 28. The fifth prominent spell, and also the longest occurred in December this week, with six consecutive days of severe air recorded between December 21 and December 26.While six severe days were recorded in January, 11 were recorded in November, and 7 have been recorded so far in December.An AQI between 0 and 50 is “good”, between 51 and 100 is “satisfactory”, between 101 and 200 is “moderate”, between 201 and 300 is “poor”, between 301 and 400 is “very poor” and over 400 is “severe”, according to the per CPCB index.Delhi recorded its cleanest air day – the only day of “good” air this year, on October 18, with rain bringing down the AQI to 46. The total number of good, satisfactory and moderate air days doubled since 2016 (108), with 197 such days recorded so far this year, the highest after last year, which was impacted by lockdowns due to Covid-19.Anumita Roychowdhury, executive director, research and advocacy says the long-term trend is good, with the total number of good, satisfactory and moderate air days increasing in Delhi. However, in winter, the smog build-up continues to remain prominent with prolonged spells being recorded in NCR. “What we are seeing is that air is becoming cleaner throughout the year, but we are still unable to control the smog build-up that happens from November onwards. While this is happening across all of northern India, it is lasting longer in NCR,” says Roychowdhury, attributing this year’s spell of 11 severe days in November to a late start in the stubble burning season, along with a delayed monsoon.“Stubble burning which generally picks up pace from October 15 was pushed to a narrow window in early November as the withdrawal of the monsoon was quite delayed. This has made November more severe. However, December’s intense spell shows background emissions are high even without Diwali and stubble burning,” she said.This year, October was the cleanest in the last seven years, with an average AQI of just 173. In comparison, November was the worst November in the last seven years, with an average AQI of 376 for the month.Santosh Harish, Fellow at the Centre for Policy Research (CPR) says sustained efforts to switch to cleaner fuels and to eliminate or reduce certain sources of pollution are clearly showing up in the long-term trend, but even they are not enough to control winter’s pollution spikes. “While it is encouraging, data clearly shows we are unable to get rid of the winter smog. We have been unable to make any progress in terms of stubble burning in the region and it still feels we are reinventing the wheel in sectors such as vehicular pollution, construction and burning of waste,” says Harish.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/best-of-times-worst-of-times-delhi-s-air-see-sawed-in-2021-101640629671676.html
28-12-2021||Delhi||‘Shutdown of health services’: Doctors after protesters detained||Resident doctors protesting against the delays in NEET postgraduate counselling near central Delhi’s ITO on Monday alleged that the police thrashed and detained them, and announced a “complete shutdown of health care institutions”. “A black day in the history of the medical fraternity of the nation. Resident doctors, the so called ‘Corona warriors’, protesting peacefully to expedite NEET-PG counselling 2021 in Delhi were brutally thrashed, dragged and detained by cops. There will be a complete shutdown of all healthcare institutions today onwards. The medical fraternity of the nation must condemn this act in strongest words and come forward in support. We urge all state RDAs of the nation to join the agitation. We all stand united in this fight against injustice,” the Federation of Resident Doctors’ Association India (Forda) said in a statement on Monday.Later in the evening, hundreds of doctors from Safdarjung hospital who were marching towards the residence of Union health minister Mansukh Mandaviya were allegedly detained at the Sarojini Nagar police station.Forda president Manish (who goes by a single name) said at least 3,000 doctors were detained by the police at Sarojini Nagar. “We had planned a peaceful march from Safdarjung Hospital till health ministry’s residence at Tughlaq Road, but we were not allowed. We started around 9pm but were detained almost immediately. There were around 3000 of us, and each one of us was detained,” he said.A senior police official said around “200-250 people” were protesting outside Sarojini Nagar police station. “We have not detained a single person till now and are trying to pacify them,” said a senior police official. The Delhi Police also denied the allegations of assaulting protesters at ITO, and said that 12 protesters were briefly detained from the agitation site and taken to the Rajendra Nagar police station, where they were released later.Manish confirmed that the detained doctors were released but added they would continue with their protest. “No solution has been found to the problem yet. Resident doctors have not been working for almost 10 days now. We were promised a solution within a week after having met the [Union] health minister but it has been four weeks and there is no solution in sight. We have had four rounds of meetings so far to no avail.”Union health ministry officials did not respond to requests for comment.Forda tweeted and retweeted various videos of hundreds of doctors inside the Sarojini Nagar police station on Monday evening. Senior Congress leader Rahul Gandhi also shared a video of the police personnel trying to remove protesters from ITO, adding that he supported the doctors. “I support the #covidwarriors against the cruelty of the Union government,” Gandhi tweeted in Hindi. Resident doctors have been protesting delays in counselling process, which is now pending the outcome of a batch of petitions being heard by the Supreme Court over economic reservations. Doctors have asked the government to expedite the process.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/shutdown-of-health-services-doctors-after-protesters-detained-101640629431993.html
28-12-2021||Delhi||All ‘non-essential’ movement off limits in Delhi after 11pm||Night curfew will be enforced in the national capital between 11pm and 5am with immediate effect, the Delhi Disaster Management Authority directed on Monday, prohibiting all non-essential movement at night as it rushed to contain the spread of coronavirus.Delhi saw an uptick of 0.68% in infections on Monday. The curfew will dampen new year celebrations, and affect restaurants, bars and movie theatres, which are trying to recover after being hit hard due to pandemic restrictions.Restaurants, bars and other non-essential establishments will have to down shutters by 10.30pm to allow time to staff reach home before the curfew. No e-passes will be issued for any non-essential movement.Individuals transit is prohibited, except for emergency staff, media, essential goods delivery and people going to and from railways stations, bus terminuses and the airport. Those seeking medical care have to show documents justifying movement. Visits to neighbourhood stores are allowed.There is no restriction on transport of goods, and no separate permission or e-pass are required.“The status of COVID-19 in Delhi has been reviewed and it has been observed that numbers of COVID-19 cases have increased rapidly over the last few days and positivity rate has also increased, besides concomitant increase in new Omicron variant of COVID- 19,” the authority said in its order issued Monday morning. “Therefore, it is felt that night curfew needs to be imposed in the city with immediate effect as an emergency measure for wellbeing and safety of people.”District authorities will to deploy enforcement teams to enforce the curfew. “No exemptions will be allowed except those mentioned in the DDMA order,” a district magistrate said on condition of anonymity. “No e-passes will be allowed for any other activities because the night curfew window is only for six hours.”Public transport will ply for exempted persons during the curfew.DDMA has asked district magistrates and deputy commissioners of police to deploy staff at places where crowds might gather. They have been asked to adequately inform and sensitize field functionaries about strict compliance.“In case any person is found violating the DDMA order, they will be proceeded against as per Section 188 of IPC (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant) and other provisions of section 51 to 60 of Disaster Management Act, 2005,” an official said.There is not much scientific evidence about the efficacy of night curfews, an expert said.“At night, markets are not as crowded as in the daytime, except at night parties. Curfews are rarely used as a public health measure because this promotes negative behaviour of corruption, and deliberate violation,” said Dr Jugal Kishore, head of the department of community medicine at Safdarjung hospital. “Infected people transmit the Omicron variant. Therefore, avoiding unnecessary travel, party, celebration, shopping, etc., is useful.”“The metro cities have a night life and, due to less aggressive enforcement exercises at night to work as a deterrent, chances of Covid protocol violations by people increase,” a district official said, not wanting to be identified.Restaurateurs are badly hit due to night curfew. People who had booked tables for December 31 have already started cancelling. The night curfew will reduce the restaurants’ operational hours, resulting in loss of business in the peak season, said Manpreet Singh, treasurer of the National Restaurants Association of India, a trade body.“The night curfew will not make much difference to shops, but it will hit cinemas, restaurants, hotels and bars industry,” said Brijesh Goyal, chairman of the Chamber of Trader and Industry, an umbrella association of traders.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/all-non-essential-movement-off-limits-in-delhi-after-11pm-101640629251622.html
28-12-2021||Delhi||17-year-old found with throat slit in southeast Delhi, 1 detained||A 17-year-old boy was found with his throat slit in southeast Delhi and another 16-year-old boy was shot dead in Rohini in two separate incidents on Sunday, police said.In the first instance, police said that the 17-year-old was allegedly murdered by his minor friend after an argument while consuming drugs. Police said they have apprehended the latter.The 17-year-old’s body was found in a garbage yard near the JJ Colony in Madanpur Khadar on Sunday morning, hours after he left home the previous day.Deputy commissioner of police (southeast) Esha Pandey said that they received a call at 10.25am on Sunday. “His body is lying in a vacant building (used as a garbage yard by locals) in Madanpur Khadar area. Police reached the spot and identified the deceased... A kitchen knife was lying nearby,” said the DCP.Police said a case was registered immediately at the Kalindi Kunj police station, following which the crime scene was inspected and the body shifted to AIIMS hospital mortuary.According to police, the 17-year-old’s brother said that the victim had stepped out of the house on Saturday evening, saying that he will return in some time.Upon questioning the victim’s friends, investigators learned that he was last seen with one of his friends, who was found absconding when they reached his house. The boy was subsequently apprehended from Madanpur Khadar area during searches. Police said they recovered blood-stained shoes, sweater, shirt, face mask and other items from a jungle in Jasola Vihar.The juvenile told the cops that he had an argument with the victim while consuming intoxicants, and allegedly killed him in a fit of rage.Meanwhile, police are yet to find any leads in the second case where a 16-year-old boy, who had allegedly gone out with friends to consume hookah, was found dead with a gunshot injury in Rohini’s Budh Vihar area on Sunday.According to police, his family reportedly found him in a nearby room -- allegedly rented by the victim and his friends -- after one of the neighbours heard the sound of gunfire and alerted them. They rushed him to a nearby hospital where he was declared dead on arrival. Police have sent the body for post-mortem.Police said they are searching for other people who were present in the room when the incident happened. “Only after the accused is caught will it be clear why the boy was murdered,” said a police officer, adding that they are also scanning CCTV footage from the area for leads.Officers said it is not clear if the boy was gunned down or if it is a case of misfire.Police said the room, which is some distance away from the victim’s home, was frequented by the victim and his friends to hang out and smoke hookah.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/17yearold-found-with-throat-slit-in-southeast-delhi-1-detained-101640629071442.html
28-12-2021||Delhi||Covid-19 concerns keep kids away from in-person classes in Delhi||Amid a spike in Covid-19 cases in the national Capital, attendance in schools across Delhi is starting to dip even as schools take measures to sensitise students about vaccination with the hope that learning continues uninterrupted in the coming year. Schools said that attendance had started fluctuating and attributed it to the uncertainty surrounding the new Covid variant, Omicron, along with inclement weather conditions. Many schools that were earlier planning to hold physical classes during the upcoming winter break will also switch to online classes to complete the syllabus, keeping in mind the rise in Covid cases. Along with these precautionary measures, some schools are also supplementing classes with webinars and orientation sessions, emphasising the merits of vaccination.Jyoti Arora, principal of Mount Abu Public School in Rohini, said that the school was treading carefully while planning future activities, considering the drop in attendance. While attendance hovered between 60-70% last week, there has been a nearly 10% drop this week with attendance dipping to 50% now. “There is a big question mark on the weeks ahead due to Omicron. There has been a drop in attendance by around 10% in the last week. With so much uncertainty, we are not very sure about the manner in which we should plan ahead. We don’t know how to plan the final exams and other activities since there is uncertainty pertaining to school closure. We are thinking of all possibilities including possible school closure while planning activities,” said Arora. In view of the Covid situation, the school has also reached out to a hospital to conduct awareness sessions regarding vaccination for children aged above 15 years and is exploring the possibility of setting up vaccination centres for students on campus. “We have tied up with a hospital for opening a vaccination centre for students within the school. We had opened a centre for staff and the public alike earlier as well. Since students in grades 10 to 12 are over the age of 15, we want to facilitate vaccination for them at the school itself,” said Arora. The school will be conducting a set of webinars for the awareness of students and parents before the actual vaccination process begins in January. “We are thinking of starting webinars in collaboration with a hospital starting from tomorrow so that parents and students gain confidence and are able to get their vaccination-related queries resolved,” said Arora. Tania Joshi, principal of The Indian School, said that the school had been receiving queries from parents wondering what would happen to in-person classes in the face of rising Covid cases and wanted their children to get vaccinated before sending them to school. Joshi said that while students in certain classes were attending school in good numbers due to ongoing tests, very few students in other classes were coming to school. “We are getting queries from parents who are concerned about rising Covid cases. Many are waiting to vaccinate children before sending them to school. If the positivity cases rate rises, parents will stop sending their children,” said Joshi.Aprajita Gautam, president, Delhi Parents Association, said that while parents wanted children to get back to routine school life, they were worried about the rise in Omicron cases due to which they were fearful about sending children to school. “After a gap of six months, cases are on the rise again. The fear and uncertainty are back once again. Parents are once again unsure about sending children to school. The initiation of vaccination might ease concerns for students in Class 10 and above after January, but children in other grades will continue to be unvaccinated,” said Gautam. A spokesperson from Apeejay Education said that Apeejay educational institutes, which include schools, would continue to organise camps on campus to facilitate vaccination. Earlier this year, the chain of schools had organised vaccination camps for its staff, parents, and the general public. “We look forward to working with our health partners and the government to continue to organise camps at our institutions to achieve 100% vaccination of all eligible age groups,” said a spokesperson.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/covid19-concerns-keep-kids-away-from-in-person-classes-in-delhi-101640628891960.html
28-12-2021||Delhi||Delhi: Civic bodies to suggest increasing fines for mosquito breeding spots||Senior officials of the municipal corporations in Delhi have said that they will recommend increasing fine imposed on owner of premises where mosquito breeding is found from the current ₹500 to ₹5,000, as well as amending the building bylaws to ensure “mosquito-proof” structures.The national capital recorded 23 fatalities and 9,545 cases of dengue this year, according to the latest municipal corporation data. This is the second highest death and case count since 2015, when 60 people died of dengue and 15,687 got infected.Noting that no corrective measures were taken by authorities to prevent the increase in dengue cases, the Delhi high court on Friday directed all civic bodies to constitute a task force headed by their commissioners to take steps to prevent the city from “being infested by mosquitoes”.Expressing its displeasure over the “inaction of the authorities”, the court said, “Every year, for the past 20 years, we are suffering the same thing. And nothing seems to happen. Why does the Commissioner not take the moral responsibility and tender his resignation? What prevents him?”A senior South Delhi Municipal Corporation official said currently a fine of ₹500 is imposed if domestic breeding checkers and inspectors find mosquito larvae in stagnant water in a property. “The fines were fixed over two decades ago, and we are going to recommend that at least a 10 times hike should be implemented. We will send a proposal to the Delhi government’s health ministry,” an official from public health department said.According to the Delhi Prevention and Control of Malaria, Dengue, Chikungunya or any Vector Borne Disease Regulations, 2021, that were notified on October 14, 2021, all hospitals and health institutions have to mandatorily report any case of these diseases to the government.The regulations also empower the domestic breeding checkers, officials appointed by the civic agencies to monitor various premises for mosquito breeding, who are often denied entry by owners of properties.“For the purpose of enforcing the provisions of these regulations, the inspecting officer may.. enquire and inspect any land or building within his jurisdiction and the occupier of such building shall give all facilities necessary for such entry and inspection, and supply all such information as may be required for the aforesaid purposes,” the notification states. Violation of the order is punishable under section 188 of Indian Penal Code (IPC), the regulations said.The annual data from the vector-borne diseases report released on Monday showed that mosquito breeding was found at more than 196,000 houses and properties.A public health inspector who asked not to be named said a fine of ₹500 cannot be a deterrent. “Breeding checkers are often not allowed to enter houses. At construction sites and other large premises, we also add the cost of insecticides used to kill larvae to increase the quantum of fine,” the inspector said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhicivic-bodies-to-suggest-increasing-fines-for-mosquito-breeding-spots-101640628771439.html
28-12-2021||Delhi||Delhi: JNU session on sexual harassment draws flak from students, teachers||A public invitation for a counselling session on sexual harassment issued by the Internal Complaints Committee (ICC) of the Jawaharlal Nehru University (JNU) has come in for heavy criticism from students and faculty who claimed that the language trivialised the issue.The invite, which is available on the university’s website, outlines the details of the event scheduled for January 17.“In addition to its usual course of action, ICC, JNU would like to introduce A COUNSELLING SESSION, on a monthly basis, for all aspiring students who wants to know DOS and DO NOT’S in regard of sexual harassment (sic),” the invite reads.Flagging objections with the notice, several students and teachers said that one of the lines under the subhead “Why is this counselling session required?” trivialised sexual harassment by reducing it to “banter”, and another line placed the onus of harassment on women.“Boys generally cross (sometimes advertently) the thin line between friendship’s bantering and sexual harassment (sic),” reads one of the pointers under the former subhead. Another pointer reads: “Girls suppose to know how to draw a tangible line (between them and their male friends) to avoid any such harassments (sic).”In a Facebook post, JNU professor Ayesha Kidwai said that the invitation showed why women did not want to approach the ICC, saying that they feared being punished themselves.“In its assessment, the line between sexual harassment and ‘boys being boys’ is so thin, that the benefit of the doubt whether it was ‘advertently’ crossed has to be given to them even in this short notice in advance,” she said.She said that one of the points listed in the notice implied that women were “asking for harassment”. “So, if a woman complains to the ICC, then the onus is on her to prove that she did draw that lakshman rekha dark enough,” wrote Kidwai.She said that the notice demonstrated how the loss of Gender Sensitisation Committee Against Sexual Harassment -- the predecessor to ICC -- has effectively silenced all discussion of sexual harassment on the JNU campus. She added that the ICC and its supposed awareness programmes had created an atmosphere that was “virulently hostile to sexual harassment being seen as misconduct, a human rights violation, and a blatant exercise of patriarchal and hierarchical power in the workplace”.JNUSU vice-president Saket Moon too said that the language of the notice placed the onus of sexual harassment on women. Moon said that the ICC had not engaged with any gender sensitisation programmes in the past two years and had become more or less defunct.“Sexual harassment is being seen as bantering. The implication is that it’s not something serious and is something that has been done inadvertently. In the past also, we have seen how remarks have been made against complainants who have approached the ICC,” said Moon.In a written statement, student group AISA said that the notice “exposes the attitude of victim-blaming which the ICC has been practicing.” “This counselling session is a sham and will only lead to making JNU an unsafe space for women,” the statement said.JNU officials did not respond to requests seeking comment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhijnu-session-on-sexual-harassment-draws-flak-from-students-teachers-101640628352802.html
28-12-2021||Delhi||47 Tihar Jail staff in Delhi under scanner after biometric mismatch||Forty-seven officials of Delhi’s three prisons were issued a “show cause notice” and their salaries put on hold after a biometric verification drive conducted inside the prison last month detected a mismatch with the records saved during their recruitment test, senior prison officers said.Officials now suspect that these 47 staffers may have got the jobs by sending other candidates to take the written exam. Under the recruitment procedures, the biometric data of applicants are recorded when they turn up for the written test.Sandeep Goel, director general of Tihar prisons, said, “A biometric verification drive was conducted by DSSSB in the prisons department in the last week of November. All the newly joined candidates of Delhi Prisons from 2019 onwards (warder and assistant superintendent ranks) recruited through the exams conducted by DSSSB (Delhi Subordinate Services Selection Board) were screened by matching their biometrics with the data preserved at the time of recruitment. As a result of the exercise, 47 cases of preliminary mismatch have been detected. Further action will be taken after final report is received from DSSSB.”The officials are employed as warders (40), matrons (2), and assistant superintendents (5) at the three prison complexes in Tihar, Rohini, and Mandoli, where around 19,000 prisoners are lodged. All of them were posted in different sub jails within the three jail complexes for the last two years.Prison officers said the show cause notice and salary suspension is just the first step. The prison department, which comes under the Delhi government, will share their replies with the DSSSB -- the government body which conducted their recruitment. Based on the report by the DSSSB, the prison department is likely to approach police.A prison officer, who asked not to be named, said the biometric verification drive was conductedafter the DSSSB received an anonymous complaint that some officers in Delhi jails had cheated the system to get a job.Prison officers said the fraud is alarming because the three prisons in Delhi have many prisoners – some with threats to their life, according to intelligence bureau. Prisoners such as underworld don Chhota Rajan, the alleged middleman in the AgustaWestland VVIP helicopter deal Christian Michel, and many others involved in terror cases are lodged in these jails. “Of the 47 officials, those who were posted in sensitive corners of the jail were immediately pulled out of such duties,” said an officer, who asked not to be named.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/47-tihar-jail-staff-in-delhi-under-scanner-after-biometric-mismatch-101640628051434.html
28-12-2021||Delhi||Six more dengue deaths in Delhi take annual toll to 23, highest since 2015||Delhi added six more dengue deaths that took place between October and November, taking the toll due to the mosquito borne disease to 23 this year -- the most fatalities since 2015 when 60 people succumbed to the disease, according to the weekly report compiled by the three municipal corporations.According to the latest report released on Monday, all six fatalities were those under 15 years, including an 8-month-old from Kirari in northwest Delhi who died in early November. The latest report also added 131 new dengue cases to the tally during the last week. The annual dengue case count in the Capital now stands at 9,545.Officials said though no dengue death was reported last week, the latest fatalities were added to the weekly report after the municipal death audit committee confirmed dengue as the cause of death in the six cases.Delhi reported the maximum fatalities and cases of the disease in 2015, when 60 people died of dengue and 15,687 got infected. Last year, the city reported only one dengue death, two in 2019, four in 2018 and 10 each in 2017 and 2016, according to the municipal data.This was the last weekly dengue report of the year, that is released every Monday. According to the data compiled this year, of the 23 fatalities in 2021, 15 were minors. Of these, six were in the 11-15 age group and eight were under 10 years. “The youngest was an 8-month-old boy from Kirari who succumbed to dengue in Chacha Nehru Bal Chikitsalaya Hospital on November 3,” a municipal official said.Dr Rommel Tickoo, director, internal medicine at Max Saket, said the city witnessed erratic rain during 2021, which proved to be a major factor in the increased number of cases. “Moreover, type-2 of dengue was circulating in Delhi as well as Uttar Pradesh, which is more virulent,” he added.According to health experts, there are four dengue strains—type-1, type-2, type-3 and type-4. Type-2 and type-4 are more virulent strains while type-1 and type-3 are milder. Type-2 leads to haemorrhagic fever and shock.Civic officials said that all the cases brought before the death audit committee so far have been processed. Once a dengue or malaria-related death is reported by a hospital, a nine-member expert committee audits all documents to check whether it was indeed an infection-related death and whether the origin of the case was in Delhi.The committee also takes a look at other aspects such as co-morbidities, before attributing the death to a vector-borne disease. If a patient is severely ill due to other diseases and the main cause of death is not dengue, then the death is not attributed to the mosquito-borne disease, an official explained.The vector-borne disease data between 2010 and 2021 shows that this is only the fourth instance when the number of infections has crossed 5,000-mark. A bulk of this year’s unusually high number of dengue infections was reported in November, which logged 6,739 cases. Trends from previous years show that the number of dengue cases in the city usually peak in October; officials attributed the delayed peak of infection this year to the delayed monsoon and the slow arrival of winter. Civic bodies also attributed the high number of cases to the government making a dengue a notifiable disease in mid-October.“Before the notification, 36 hospitals would share weekly data with the malaria headquarters under the ‘sentinel surveillance system’. But now, corporations are getting data from 180 healthcare facilities,” an official overseeing the data compilations in the anti-malaria headquarters said.Reacting to the record high number of dengue cases this year, the Delhi high court on Friday directed local bodies, including the three municipal corporations, to constitute task forces to monitor and control the mosquito infestation in the city. The court also asked the government to increase the fine imposed on owners of premises where mosquitogenic conditions are found. “Currently, a fine of just ₹500 is imposed, which is not a deterrent. We will soon send a proposal to raise it to ₹5000 per offence,” an official added.Dr SP Byotra, senior consultant and chairman of the department of medicine at Sir Gangaram Hospital, said while the very high number of infections can be attributed to the delayed monsoon, there were lapses on the part of people as well as authorities. “Why do we wake up so late when the infection has already crossed a limit? The dengue control programme should be run all round the year. We should start the drives from March next year. Vector-borne diseases are bound to arise, and like other countries we should have institutional mechanisms that function all 365 days to deal with them,” he added.The weekly report released on Monday said that of the reported 9,545 dengue cases, 2,645 were logged in the jurisdiction of north MCD, 2,570 under SDMC and 1,129 under EDMC. During this year, domestic breeding checkers of the three civic bodies detected 196,000 cases of mosquito larvae in houses across Delhi and issued 150,000 legal notices for mosquitogenic conditions. The corresponding number of houses in which mosquito breeding was detected was 109,000 in 2020 and 179,000 in 2019.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/six-more-dengue-deaths-in-delhi-take-annual-toll-to-23-highest-since-2015-101640627811429.html
28-12-2021||Dehradun||Upper caste, Dalit students eat together days after row over Dalit cook||Officials joined the upper caste and Dalit students as they had their midday meal together at a government school in Uttarakhand’s Champawat district on Monday. This comes days after a Dalit cook was removed after the upper caste students at the school refused to have the food she cooked for them.Prem Singh, the school principal, said 42 upper caste and 19 Dalit students ate together. RC Purohit, chief Champawat’s chief education officer, said the students from both communities sat together as they would do earlier.On Saturday, sub-divisional magistrate Himanshu Kafaltia held a meeting of villagers of Sukhidhang and persuaded them to end the row for the betterment of the village and students. He constituted a committee under Purohit to investigate the matter.Upper caste students refused to eat the midday meals a day after 32-year-old Dalit woman Sunita Devi was appointed as the cook on December 13. On December 22, Devi was removed from her post after an inquiry found the school management did not “follow the norms” for the appointment.Dalit students boycotted the midday meal on Friday in protests and brought lunch boxes from their homes.Vimilesh Upreti, an upper-caste cook, cooked the midday meals on Monday and other woman teachers helped her in serving them.Before Devi’s appointment, two upper caste cooks belonging to the upper castes cooked the meals. One of them, retired and Devi was appointed in her place. After Devi’s removal, Upreti remains the school’s lone cook.On Friday, Uttarakhand chief minister Pushkar Singh Dhami directed deputy Inspector general Nilesh Anand Bharne to investigate the matter and take appropriate action.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/dehradun-news/upper-caste-dalit-students-eat-together-days-after-row-over-dalit-cook-101640603868838.html
28-12-2021||Chandigarh||Five killed in private bus collision on Ambala-Chandigarh highway||At least five people were killed and nine were injured in a collision of two private buses on Ambala-Chandigarh highway near Healing Touch Hospital early on Monday.Officials said a bus bearing Haryana number hit an Uttar Pradesh-registered tourist bus from behind at around 3am, killing five people, including a woman. The accident took place around 10km away from the district headquarters.Both the buses were plying between Jammu and New Delhi and most of the commuters included labourers and their families, said Baldev Nagar police station in-charge inspector Ajaib Singh.The deceased included Meena Devi and Rohit Kumar of Chhattisgarh, Rahul Kumar of Jharkhand, and Pradeep of Uttar Pradesh, who all died at the spot, and an unidentified man (presumed to be the conductor of the Haryana bus) who died during treatment at civil hospital, an official statement issued by the administration reads.“All the injured were taken to hospital from where two were referred to PGIMS, Chandigarh due to their critical condition. Most of the injured are from Uttar Pradesh or Chhattisgarh,” the statement added.An FIR was lodged at Baldev Nagar police station under Sections 279, 337 and 304A of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) against the unknown driver on complaint of Androz Singh, of Gaya in Bihar.He told the police that he and his cousin Rahul were working at a sweets shop in Baramulla and had boarded the bus from Jammu at 3pm on Sunday. “At around 3am, a speeding bus hit our bus from behind killing four in our bus, including my cousin. The driver of the bus fled, leaving the vehicle behind,” the FIR copy read.Injured said the collision was so intense that they fell from the sleeper cabin. One of the commuters travelling to Delhi and further to Gorakhpur in UP said most of them were sleeping when the accident took place.MLA Aseem Goel said he has instructed doctors to take care of the food and other requirements of the injured. “We will take care of their return expenses when they are discharged and ensure that there is no problem in their treatment at the hospital,” the BJP legislator said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/five-passengers-killed-in-bus-pile-up-near-ambala-101640582864501.html
