29-12-2021||Pune||Cheat arrested for calling PCMC police posing as Ahmedabad CP||Pune The Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC) police have lodged a case against a caller for cheating a police sub-inspector of ₹15,000 claiming that he was the PCMC police chief’s friend and the incumbent police commissioner (CP) of Ahmedabad. The accused called up the senior police inspector posted at PCMC commissionerate on the pretext of offering leads on pistol trade and defrauded the police officer. The social security cell has arrested the accused, identified as Khalilullah Ayanullah Khan, from Goregaon in connection with the cyber crime which took place between December 8 and December 28. The accused presented himself as CP Vijay Singh of Ahmedabad police and demanded the number of PCMC police chief from the control room. He later called up the control room a number of times saying that he could not reach the police commissioner and demanded the number of DCP, ACP and PI of crime branch on the pretext of sharing information regarding illicit trade of pistols. He called up one of the police officers, sent photos of some persons on WhatsApp and said that five to six pistols were likely to be delivered in the industrial township area. He also sent details of his bank account and sought ₹15,000. When the police wired the money to him, some of the police officials grew suspicious over the dealings of the accused and carried out technical investigation of the telephone number. The police tracked him down to Goregaon based on geo location and placed him under arrest. Addl CP Sanjay Shinde said, “We have arrested the accused under IPC and on charges of fraud.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/cheat-arrested-for-calling-pcmc-police-posing-as-ahmedabad-cp-101640802566246.html
29-12-2021||Lucknow||Miscreants injure constable in Bijnor, loot his rifle||MEERUT Two motorcycle-borne miscreants injured a constable and escaped with his Insas rifle in Afzalgarh area of Bijnor on Tuesday night. They also thrashed a home guard accompanying the constable. The injured constable Lalit Kumar was taken to the community health centre in Afzalgarh, from where he was referred to a higher centre for treatment. SP (city), Bijnor Praveen Ranjan Singh claimed that police teams were very close to cracking the case and the criminals involved in the incident would be arrested soon. He said that constable Lalit Kumar was critically injured and undergoing treatment. Criminals also thrashed a home guard, who was with the constable, he said. The incident occurred near Bhootpuri crossing of Afzalgarh area on Tuesday night at around 1 am. A truck laden with residuals of sugarcane littered the road and a JCB was called to clean the road. Two motorcycle-borne people arrived there and started abusing the truck driver for carelessly littering the road. Constable Lalit Kumar was at the crossing with a home guard and the miscreants suddenly attacked him and attempted to snatch his Insas rifle. When he resisted, they injured him with the rifle’s butt and also thrashed the home guard. Then they escaped with the looted rifle. Someone present there made a video of the incident and it went viral on social media on Wednesday. Police rushed to the spot after receiving information about the incident and neighbouribg districts were also alerted. A manhunt was launched to arrest the criminals who are still at large.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/miscreants-injure-constable-in-bijnor-loot-his-rifle-101640802446045.html
29-12-2021||Pune||Two arrested for extortion, illegal money lending in Pune||PUNE: Two men identified as Ramdas alias Nana Walke and Aniket Hazare were arrested by Pune city police for wrongfully lending money and demanding payment at a high interest rate from a local businessman. A complaint was lodged by Swapnil Ganpat Balwadkar, 35, a businessman living in Balewadi area of Pimpri-Chinchwad. Hazare allegedly loaned ₹3,50,00,000 between August 2017 and December 2021 to the complainant. The complainant claims to have agreed to borrow this money at the interest rate of 2.5%. Over the same period, Balwadkar claims to have repaid ₹5,10,00,000 to Hazare under threat to life and reputation. However, Hazare allegedly kept up a demand for additional payment of ₹4,75,00,000 and forced the complainant to allegedly sign a promissory note along with a cheque for ₹20,00,000 in addition to wrongfully confiscating 20 RC books of cars owned by the complainant. Ramdas allegedly threatened the complainant with a series of 10-15 false police cases and harm to his family in order to coax the money that Hazare was demanding. Between 2015 and 2017, the complainant claims to have borrowed money from both the men and paid them off, including the interest charged wrongfully by them. In 2017, a new series of transactions allegedly began, according to the police. A case under Sections 386, 387, 504, 506, and 34 of Indian Penal Code along with Sections 39 and 45 of Maharashtra Moneylending Regulation Act, 2014 was registered at Chatuhshrungi police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/two-arrested-for-extortion-illegal-money-lending-in-pune-101640802266108.html
29-12-2021||Delhi||Delhi’s North civic body turns vacant dhalaos into gardens, libraries||Under the second phase of the project comprising the closure of open dhalaos (garbage receptacle points) by installing fixed compactor machines, the North Delhi Municipal Corporation has started converting vacant sites into libraries and mini-gardens. On Wednesday, two such sites were opened to the public in Rohini’s Sector 3.Jogi Ram Jain, the standing committee chairman of the North Corporation, said that under the policy, the closed dhalao sites will now be re-utilised for creating mini public libraries, recreation halls for senior citizens and charitable dispensaries. The municipal body has, so far, closed 246 dhalaos, and will shut down 100 more soon. Since the space required to store municipal waste is drastically reduced due to compaction, each compactor is able to replace three or four dhalaos.A senior official from the sanitation department, requesting anonymity, said that the North MCD has installed waste compactors at 76 locations. “A model site in the form of a ‘compactor vatika,’ which includes a mini garden with a green belt and flowering plants has been developed in Rohini’s Sector 3. We have also added street art and selfie-points for increasing awareness among common residents regarding waste management. More such sites will be developed to show that efficient waste management can be achieved in an appealing way. We will add educational material related to municipal waste management at the location,” the official said. In the second model site at Rohini’s Sector 3, the vacant dhalao building has been converted into a mini-library that will serve as a spoken English coaching centre for poor children. “People can also donate books here,” the official added.Jain said the civic body has signed MoUs with several NGOs and RWAs to reuse these sites for public welfare activities.“These model sites will be replicated at other locations and we have also made provisions of using space for senior citizens, charitable dispensaries among other uses.Out of the 246 dhalaos that have been closed, the maximum number of sites–113–is located in Rohini zone, 71 are located in Keshavpuram, 36 in Civil Lines, nine in City-Sadar Paharganj zone and seven are located in Narela. “More than 50% of dhalaos in the three zones handled by the private concessionaire have been closed down. The new fixed compactor stations have the capacity to handle 15-20 metric tonnes of garbage,” the official explained. According to officials, the new policy divides closed sites into three categories. The sites on roads will be removed permanently on priority to decongest them, while the remaining ones will be handed over to RWAs or market associations after they sign MoUs with the civic body. The dhalao locations not included in either of these categories will be used for the augmentation of basic departmental infrastructures, such as ward offices or resting places for sanitation workers, the policy said. Last year, the South MCD also sanctioned a budget of ₹10 lakh per dhalao site for re-utilisation and redevelopment. An EDMC official said that 31 fixed compactors have been installed so far, while the work is in the final stages at another seven sites.The project deadline, officials said, is March 2022– before the municipal elections are scheduled to be held next year. Delhi has over 1,209 primary garbage receptacle points, with 550 under the jurisdiction of North MCD (municipal corporation of Delhi), 350 with the South municipal body and 309 with East Delhi Municipal Corporation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhis-north-civic-body-turns-vacant-dhalaos-into-gardens-libraries-101640802146087.html
29-12-2021||Delhi||EDMC launches on-demand construction waste collection service||East Delhi Municipal Corporation (EDMC) officially launched the “on-demand collection” of construction and destruction (C&D) waste on Wednesday. The civic body is the first of Delhi’s five local bodies to start this service.Citizens were earlier expected to deposit construction waste at designated spots. The civic body will now collect C&D waste at a cost of ₹452.78 per tonne from January 1, 2022, municipal commissioner Vikas Anand said. He added that residents of east Delhi areas who want to avail of the facility can call the numbers 9205059982 or 9821488633.“The site will be verified by the supervisor deputed by the East Corporation, who will intimate the resident about the charges,” he added.Anand said that the facility will not be available to bulk C&D waste generators as they are obligated to deposit their C&D waste directly at the processing plant at Shastri Park.The EDMC operates a 1,000 tonne per day C&D waste processing facility at Shastri Park. A senior EDMC official from the department of environment management service (DEMS) said that the on-demand collection will take place in association with Indo Enviro Integrated Solution (erstwhile IL&FS Ltd) with a goal to reduce air pollution.In October, changing its strategy to increase C&D waste collection, the East Corporation reduced the number of designated C&D waste dumping locations from 61 to 17. It is estimated that East Delhi generates around 750-800 tonnes of construction waste every day.EDMC mayor Shyam Sunder Aggarwal said that the charges are nominal and will be used to recover the transportation cost. He added that residents of east Delhi should avail of the service instead of illegally dumping construction debris, which leads to an increase in air pollution. While Delhi has the capacity of handling 4,150 tonnes of construction waste everyday, a leakage in the collection mechanism and illegal dumping continues to pose a challenge.Delhi has five local bodies and it is estimated that the city generates over 3,712 tonnes of construction waste every day. Delhi has four operational C&D waste processing facilities at Jahangir Puri, Shashtri Park, Mundka and Bakkar Wala with a cumulative capacity to handle 4,150 tonnes of demolition waste. A total of 212 designated dumping sites have been fixed by the local bodies.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/edmc-launches-on-demand-construction-waste-collection-service-101640801606211.html
29-12-2021||Lucknow||All should oppose dowry system, child marriage: UP Governor||Lucknow Uttar Pradesh Governor Anandiben Patel said on Wednesday that though women had taken great strides and somewhat overtaken men while moving towards higher education, attention was needed for their health and studies. Presiding over the 36th convocation of Chhatrapati Shahuji Maharaj University, Kanpur, Patel said that all universities should conduct blood tests of women students to assess their health and every section of society should oppose dowry system and child marriage. She said, “We should create more awareness about institutional delivery of women” and added that every gram pradhan should ensure that his/her village was free of TB and malnutrition and timely funds were made available to pregnant women. Chief guest, Rajya Sabha MP Dr Sudhanshu Trivedi said that convocation was an important aspect of students’ life. Explaining its meaning, he said that initiation developed one’s consciousness. Minister of state for higher education, science and technology Neelima Katiyar said that students should move forward with Vocal for Local. Vice-chancellor Prof Vinay Kumar Pathak said that Chhatrapati Shahuji Maharaj University had successfully implemented the New Education Policy 2020. He also informed that 26 new vocational courses were started in the university. He also informed that MP Sudhanshu Trivedi had given ₹50 lakhs to the university and added that 30 children suffering from TB had been adopted. In the convocation, 45 PhD students were conferred degrees by Chancellor Anandiben Patel. Out of these 25 are men (55.56%) and 20 (44.44%) women. A total of 86 medals were given to 55 students by Chancellor Anandiben Patel. Among the medal winners, 19 are man (34.55%) and 36 women (65.45%). The “Digilocker” app was also launched to keep the students’ mark sheets, certificates, degrees, migration certificates etc. digitally safe. Using this facility, students will be able to keep their various documents safe online. “Kishori App” , with the help of which women students can get information about their physical and mental health, was also launched. In all, 2,35,256 degrees were awarded, out of which 1,26,895 were received by women.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/all-should-oppose-dowry-system-child-marriage-up-governor-101640801425934.html
29-12-2021||Pune||COEP, SPPU top ARIIA rankings 2021||Pune: The College of Engineering Pune (COEP) retained its first position at the national level in the Atal Ranking of Institutions on Innovation Achievements (ARIIA) 2021 under the category of government-aided institutions. Savitribai Phule Pune University (SPPU) ranked 8th position in the state funded university category. The rankings were announced by Subash Sarkar, minister of state for education, ministry of education, on Wednesday. The ministry of education started the ARIIA rankings for the higher education institutions in various fields and categories from 2018. Institutions are analysed and ranked by the ministry on the basis of various criteria. In the self-financed category, Symbiosis International University (SIU) was ranked 10th in this year’s ARIIA rankings. ARIIA ranking is an initiative of ministry of human resource development (MHRD), to rank higher educational institutions and universities in India on indicators related to “Innovation and Entrepreneurship Development” amongst students and faculty. Some of the major indicators for consideration for ARIIA awards are - budget and funding support, infrastructure and facilities, awareness, promotions and support for idea generation and innovation, innovative learning methods and courses and innovation in governance of the institution. SPPU vice-chancellor Prof Nitin Karmalkar said, “The university has started ‘innovation cell’ in SPPU and affiliated colleges. The ARIIA ranking is the result of our good work carried out during last year.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/coep-sppu-top-ariia-rankings-2021-101640800946019.html
29-12-2021||Lucknow||Metro services in Gorakhpur to start soon, says Yogi||Gorakhpur: The much awaited metro rail project would soon be completed in Gorakhpur and the city, known as the land of Baba Gorakhnath , would emerge as a world class centre for water sports, with the launch of a water sports complex in the iconic Ramgarh Tal, said Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Wednesday. Ramgarh Tal, the 1700 acre lake, is known as the Marine Drive of Gorakhpur owing to its majestic look and beautified surroundings. Chief minister Yogi Adityanath made these announcements while launching 262 projects worth ₹550 crores here at the Nagar Nigam. The CM said that two key projects, AIIMs and fertilizer factory, had already been dedicated to east UP by Prime Minister Narendra Modi on October 20 and new development projects were being gifted to the city by his government. The other projects which were inaugurated included the newly constructed building of the Nagar Nigam, smart traffic management system, multi-level parking, extension of piped water supply and road projects while Yogi laid the foundation stone of several other projects . He also inaugurated a statue of his mentor Mahant Avaidyanath outside the newly constructed Nagar Nigam building. “Earlier, the Nagar Nigam house rain in a 127-year-old British era building and this new house has been built with extended seating capacity and equipped with all modern facilities. I hope that this new house will be used to prepare strong plans for development of the city. “ “Soon the city will witness the operation of Metro project. Also the Ramgarh Tal would be used as an alternative for air port as sea planes would land and take off from here. There will be services for Lucknow and Delhi as well as for Varanasi. With this sea plane service, people would be able to take a holy dip in Maa Ganga and return to Gorakhpur in sea plane after visiting Baba Vishwanath.” “And with a series of water sports in the lake, the city would emerge as a world class centre for adventurous water sports,” said the CM, adding that he wanted to take his home town Gorakhpur to new heights of development with a slew of key projects in its kitty. The CM also flagged off 15 electric buses which will be used as part of public transport. One such electric bus will be driven by a women driver Puja Prajapati who was lauded by the CM .||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/metro-services-in-gorakhpur-to-start-soon-says-yogi-101640800886400.html
29-12-2021||Pune||PMC appoints agency to maintain mobile toilets for women||PUNE: Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) has appointed an agency to maintain mobile toilets for women. PMC had converted scrapped Pune Mahanagar Parivahan Mahamandal Limited (PMPML) buses into mobile toilets and stationed them at eight places across the city. PMC standing committee chairman Hemant Rasne said, “As there are inadequate public toilets in the city, PMC has converted old and unused PMPML buses into mobile toilets. These toilets also have tea stall.” The use of toilet services is Rs5. The bus is equipped with Indian and western style toilets, hand sanitiser facility and a machine dispensing sanitary napkins. PMC has appointed the agency for 11 months to maintain these toilets. The toilet buses are parked at Sindh Society Aundh, Sambhaji park, Shimla office, Green Park hotel Baner, Anandnagar- Sinhgad road, Chhatrapati Shivaji garden in Bopodi, RTO Phulenagar, Lohegaon bus stop and Vishrantwadi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pmc-appoints-agency-to-maintain-mobile-toilets-for-women-101640800770240.html
29-12-2021||Jaipur||Gehlot contrasts Dharma Sansad to 1893 World's Parliament of Religions||Rajasthan chief minister Ashok Gehlot on Wednesday said great men like Swami Vivekananda have emerged from discussion in Dharma Sansad held in Chicago in 1893 unlike the "unruly and wicked" people emerging from discussion held in Uttarakhand.He said the people of the country should decide whether we need a great personality like Swami Vivekananda or those who talk about riots and genocide."Let us all think that a Dharma Sansad was held in Chicago in 1893 where great men like Swami Vivekananda emerged from the discussion. Unruly and wicked people are coming out of the religious parliaments being held here," Gehlot said in a tweet.He said no arrest has been made in Uttarakhand yet, which is a mockery of law and order situation."It is very shameful that even after more than a week of the controversial Dharma Sansad held in Uttarakhand, no arrest has been made. In a conversation with a media channel, the chief minister of Uttarakhand expressed ignorance about this issue, which is surprising when he himself holds the Home Department portfolio," he said.The chief Minister said that in the BJP-ruled states, even artists, journalists and comedians were charged with sections of National Security Act (NSA) and the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act, but despite speeches inciting genocide in Uttarakhand, no arrests have been made.He said that in the name of Dharma Sansad, work is being done to incite people for genocide and abusing freedom fighters like Gandhiji and Nehru.Provocative speeches inciting violence against Muslims were allegedly made by participants at the event held at Ved Niketan Dham in Uttarakhand's Haridwar from December 16 to 19.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jaipur-news/gehlot-contrasts-dharma-sansad-to-1893-world-s-parliament-of-religions-101640800406111.html
29-12-2021||Lucknow||NEP-2020: AU begins efforts to set up agriculture faculty||Allahabad University (AU) would soon set up ‘Agriculture Faculty’ on its campus as part of its initiatives under the new National Education Policy (NEP)-2020. Efforts in this direction have begun and a proposal is being prepared in this regard, confirmed central varsity officials. Presently, the 134-year-old fourth oldest varsity in the country has four faculties—Arts, Science, Law and Commerce. If all goes according to plan, the new faculty of agriculture could well come up at the Hindu Hostel campus that the university has recently acquired on a nominal lease rent of ₹1 per annum for the next 29 years and 11 months. Once ready, it would offer various vocational courses related to different aspects of agriculture and associated areas, preferably from 2023-24, the officials aware of the development shared. “The university is constantly striving to offer vocational courses and programmes deemed important for the society. As part of NEP-2020, the university on one hand is gearing up to start new integrated courses while also working on setting up an Agriculture faculty. A proposal in this regard is being prepared,” said Prof Jaya Kapoor, AU PRO. Former vice-chancellor of Banaras Hindu University (BHU), Varanasi, and former head of the department of AU’s economics department Prof GC Tripathi shared that earlier, AU had engineering and medical faculties as well in the shape of Motilal Nehru Regional Engineering College (which was earlier an associated college of AU and is now running as a national institute of technology) and MLN Medical College, both of which later attained their separate identifies independent of AU. “Even the existing Sam Higginbottom University of Agriculture, Technology and Sciences (SHUATS), which was set up in 1910 was part of the Department of Agricultural Economics and an extension of Ewing Christian College, a constituent college of AU, said Prof Tripathi, who is presently the chairman, Higher Education Council, UP. 
29-12-2021||Other||PTU to start ‘Connect to Roots’ course for next-gen NRIs from Jan||Jalandhar In a first-of-a-kind initiative, Inder Kumar Gujral Punjab Technical University is starting a one-year certificate course in Punjabi Language, Literature and Culture by January. The aim is to ensure that the younger generation of NRIs remain connected to their roots, as represented in Punjabi language, culture and literature The university’s board of study, that vice-chancellor and secretary, state technical education department, Vikas Garg, heads granted in-principle approval to the course on Wednesday and sent it for the final nod to the varsity’s academic council. Though designed specially for NRIs, the course will be open for all. Other relevant details like fee etc, would also be finalised soon. Head of department of humanities, languages and culture studies, Sarabjit Singh, said, “The one-year certificate course in Punjabi language, literature and culture will be offered online with two classes of two-hour on the module every week.” The timing and schedule will be based on the geography on the country of the majority of the participants. The two-hour course will talk about the basics of Punjabi including alphabets, sentence formation, writing and listening, grammar and literature of Punjab and Punjabi language in the first semester. Punjabi culture and its diversification, along with Punjabi literature, will be covered in the second semester. Sarabjit added, “We started in August and have designed the entire course, especially its content, to be taught in the course. The Punjab tourism department has launched this programme for NRIs and titled it ‘Connect with Roots’. We will also tie with the tourism department to promote the course.” Sarabjit emphasised that the programme will be helpful for NRIs, as employability of participants will increase. “Punjabi newspapers, magazine, news portal and other businesses are expanding to western countries, where knowing Punjabi and Punjab’s culture is a major requirement.”University registrar Jaspreet Singh said, “Being a technical university, we have signed many Memorandum of Understanding (MoUs) with international universities. A feedback that we consistently receive is running short-term courses for the NRI diaspora. “We have finally initiated these courses and are going to start from January 2022. We hope that these courses will support our NRIs in their dream of ensuring that their next generation stays close to their roots,” added Jaspreet, who is also Jalandhar ADC (development). 
29-12-2021||Jaipur||After 23 new Omicron cases, Rajasthan issues new Covid-19 curbs, night curfew||JAIPUR: The Rajasthan government on Wednesday ordered the administration to implement a 11pm-5am night curfew and made it mandatory for people to have both vaccine doses to enter schools, colleges, cinema halls, malls and markets. The government has also imposed a limit of 200 people on any gathering in the state.The decision was taken at a meeting of the state cabinet chaired by chief minister Ashok Gehlot on Wednesday where the ministers expressed concern at the rapidly increasing instances of the Omicron variant of coronavirus. On Wednesday, Rajasthan reported 23 cases of Omicron variant of Covid-19. Only four of them had returned from a trip abroad.JAIPUR: The Rajasthan government on Wednesday ordered the administration to implement a 11pm-5am night curfew and made it mandatory for people to have both vaccine doses to enter schools, colleges, cinema halls, malls and markets. The government has also imposed a limit of 200 people on any gathering in the state.The decision was taken at a meeting of the state cabinet chaired by chief minister Ashok Gehlot on Wednesday where the ministers expressed concern at the rapidly increasing instances of the Omicron variant of coronavirus. On Wednesday, Rajasthan reported 23 cases of Omicron variant of Covid-19. Only four of them had returned from a trip abroad.|#+|The state has so far reported 69 cases of the Omicron variant, which has been classified as a variant of concern by the World Health Organisation. According to the state health ministry, 44 of the Omicron variant patients have already recovered and tested negative. In all, Rajasthan has 438 active Covid-19 cases including 75 from Jaipur.After the state cabinet’s meeting on Wednesday evening, the government said it was decided to relax the night curfew on New Year’s Eve and restaurants can operate till 12.30am instead of 10pm. The night curfew will also start at 1pm on January 1 instead of 11pm.Gehlot said the cabinet had opted for minimum restrictions at the moment in an effort to ensure that the livelihood of people is not impacted even as the state tries to save lives.All eligible people in the state will have to get vaccinated by January 31, 2022, after the deadline, those without both doses of vaccine will not be allowed to go to public places.As per the guidelines issued by the government, educational and non-educational staff of all universities, colleges, schools, and coaching institutes, students above 18 years of age and drivers of transport vehicles have to mandatorily get both doses of the vaccine.All cinema halls, theatres and multiplexes in the state will be allowed to stay open till 10pm for adults who have received both doses of the vaccine from January 3.From January 3, 2022, all adults entering cinema halls, theatres, auditoriums and exhibition space will be allowed if they have received both doses of the vaccine. These premises will also cap the number of people at 50% of its capacity.After January 31, 2022, only those with the two doses will be allowed at public places and if any violation is found, the head of the institution or operator will be penalised.It has also been decided to cap participation of people in all crowded public, social, political, sports-related, entertainment, educational, cultural and religious functions, festivals, wedding ceremonies at 200. All events that are expected to have more than 200 people will need prior approval from the district collector. A ₹10,000 fine will be imposed on the organisers if there is any violation on this count.
29-12-2021||Lucknow||Durga Shankar Mishra to be new Uttar Pradesh chief secretary||Ahead of the upcoming elections, Housing and Urban Affairs Secretary Durga Shankar Mishra was on Wednesday repatriated to his parent cadre Uttar Pradesh as the Yogi Adityanath government proposes to appoint him as the new chief secretary, an order that comes barely two days before his retirement.In an official order, the Personnel Ministry said that Mishra, a 1984-batch IAS officer of the Uttar Pradesh cadre due to superannuate on Friday, was being repatriated to his parent cadre.The Appointments Committee of the Cabinet has approved his repatriation "for his proposed appointment as Chief Secretary, Uttar Pradesh by the State Government of Uttar Pradesh", the order said.At present, Rajendra Kumar Tiwari, a 1985-batch IAS officer, is the Chief Secretary of Uttar Pradesh. He is due to retire in February 2023.The appointment is being proposed at a time when the state is preparing itself for holding the assembly elections likely to be scheduled before March next year.The Personnel Ministry had in an order on Monday named Manoj Joshi as the new Housing and Urban Affairs Secretary in place of Mishra. Joshi, a 1989-batch Kerala cadre IAS officer, has been appointed as Officer on Special Duty in the Ministry of Housing and Urban Affairs.He will take over as Secretary, Ministry of Housing and Urban Affairs upon superannuation of Durga Shanker Mishra, on December 31, the order said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/durga-shankar-mishra-to-be-new-uttar-pradesh-chief-secretary-101640799729669.html
29-12-2021||Pune||Operations of Wipro Covid hospital to be suspended temporarily: ZP||PUNE The Pune Zilla Parishad (ZP) informed on Wednesday that the operations of Wipro Hospital in Hinjewadi would be suspended because there are no patients. The ZP has assured that it can be restarted in two days if the need arises.“ After being operational for 1.5 years, we would be suspending its operations as there are no patients. We had stopped admissions of patients about 15 days ago and now all patients have been discharged,” said Ayush Prasad, chief executive officer, Pune Zilla Parishad. As per the information given by the ZP, there have been 6,865 admissions in this facility and 11 deaths have been recorded here so far. “I would like to acknowledge the efforts the entire team of doctors, administrators, medical and non-medical staff who worked at the Wipro Hospital. Their eye for detail has ensured that it was the best performing Hospital in the district. Just to illustrate this claim, the death rate of all patients in the district was 1.6% . Wipro Hospital that was operated by Pune Zilla Parishad had a death rate of 0.16% which is 10 times lower than the average death rate of all patients in Pune district,” said Prasad.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/operations-of-wipro-covid-hospital-to-be-suspended-temporarily-zp-101640799745937.html
29-12-2021||Lucknow||ED tracing source of illegal properties of Mafiosi-turned-politicians||Not only the police but the Enforcement Directorate (ED) is also tightening its noose around musclemen and Mafiosi-turned-politicians, including former MP Atiq Ahmad, MLA Mukhtar Ansari and Gyanpur MLA Vijay Mishra. ED officials are investigating their movable and immovable assets, which they have earned through illegal means. ED is issuing summons to close relatives of the trio to question them about the properties owned by them and their source of income. ED has lodged cases of money laundering against Atiq Ahmad, Mukhtar Ansari and Vijay Mishra. While Atiq is at Ahmedabad Jail, Mukhtar and Vijay Mishra are in different jails of Uttar Pradesh. The three Mafiosi-turned-politicians have faced police action earlier as well, but this is the first time that ED has been roped in to scan their assets and trace their sources of illegal income, which makes them influential. After lodging cases of money laundering, ED officials recorded the statements of Atiq, Mukhtar and Vijay Mishra in jail. ED officials said that summons have also been issued to wives, children and close relatives of the trio. ED has sent summon to Atiq’s son Umar for questioning, but he failed to appear following which a case under section 174 (A) was registered against him. It is worth mentioning that Umar is absconding since CBI registered an FIR against Atiq, Umar and others for abduction and assault on a realtor at Deoria Jail. A reward of ₹2 lakh was also declared on him. Recently, ED officials seized 10 bank accounts of Atiq and his wife Shaista Parveen in different banks. The accounts contained ₹1.28 crores cash. Moreover, properties worth ₹8.14 crore, belonging to Atiq, were also seized. Atiq has 80 cases lodged against him. And under the Gangster Act, the administration has carried out demolition and attachments of his properties worth several crores. MLA Mukhtar Ansari has 49 cases against him and is lodged at Banda Jail. ED officials called his kin for questioning, but no one turned up. Now, summon will be issued against them, and further action will be taken if they fail to appear. Gyanpur MLA Vijay Mishra has 73 cases lodged against him and is presently lodged at Agra jail. While the administration has demolished one of his buildings in Allapur, ED is investigating the case of money laundering. His wife Ramlali and other kin have been called for questioning.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/ed-tracing-source-of-illegal-properties-of-mafiositurnedpoliticians-101640799686205.html
29-12-2021||Pune||State issues guidelines to vaccinate 15-18 age group; we have enough stock, says Pune dist admin||PUNE After the Union government issued detailed guidelines for the vaccination drive for those aged 15-18 and precautionary jabs to healthcare, frontline workers and 60 plus age group with comorbidities, health officials also received guidelines from the state government on Wednesday.Officials from the public health department said that the Pune district administration is in the process to arrange separate centres to conduct vaccination for the 15-18 years age group.The vaccination will kick start from January 3 with Covaxin, and officials claimed that doses are abundantly available in the district.“We have to arrange separate vaccination centres for the 15-18 years age group. We have received state guidelines on Wednesday. So, we will plan accordingly,” said Dr Sanjay Deshmukh, deputy director (health) Pune region.According to the public health department, there are 0.533 million beneficiaries in Pune district, including urban and rural, between the age group of 15-18. Besides this, 0.198 million health workers will be beneficiaries of a ‘precautionary dose’ in the district.In a letter to states on December 28, by union health ministry it was mentioned that district officials should identify dedicated session sites give shots to those aged 15-18 years to avoid mixing of the vaccine.Union ministry has also advised states to arrange prominent signage’s and separate vaccination team if the vaccination centre is the same where adult vaccination is underway.“Doses of vaccine is abundantly available. As of Wednesday, we have 1.48 lakh Covaxin doses and 3.5 lakh doses of Covishield available. We will get more supply in the coming days,” said Dr Deshmukh.Earlier while talking in Mumbai, health minister Rajesh Tope also indicated that for the 15-18 years old beneficiaries’ vaccine doses could be arranged in schools as well.“We are assessing if we can conduct vaccination at the school level because if they have to come to centres then it will be time consuming,” said Tope.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/state-issues-guidelines-to-vaccinate-15-18-age-group-we-have-enough-stock-says-pune-dist-admin-101640799571957.html
29-12-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai makes 7-day home quarantine, RT-PCR mandatory for UAE returnees amid Covid alarm||The civic body of Mumbai on Wednesday made it mandatory for all passengers, who are residents of the Maharashtra capital, coming from the United Arab Emirates (UAE) to undergo seven-day home quarantine and an RT-PCR test on arrival.In a late night statement, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) said the latest guideline will be effective from December 30 midnight.“All international passengers on boarding the flight from the UAE, including Dubai, and who are residents of Mumbai shall undergo mandatory 7 days home quarantine after arriving in Mumbai,” the statement read. “On arrival RT-PCR shall be mandatory for all such passengers.Maharashtra | All international passengers arriving from UAE including Dubai who are Mumbai residents to compulsorily undergo 7-day home quarantine, RT-PCR on arrival will be mandatory for such passengers: BMC#Omicron pic.twitter.com/AbkLXSfDXRMumbai on Wednesday reported 53 of the 85 new cases of Omicron registered across the state. With this, Mumbai’s Omicron tally touched 137, while the statewide the figures stand at 252. At 2510, the country’s financial capital registered a massive spike in Covid-19 cases in the last 24 hours. The tally is more than 80 per cent of the daily cases recorded in Mumbai a day ago at 1,333.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/covid-mumbai-makes-7-day-home-quarantine-rt-pcr-mandatory-for-uae-returnees-101640799339194.html
29-12-2021||Chandigarh||No freebies, marshal resources for better future||“Free! Free! Free!” and the echo of errors continues. With the freebie policy hydra rearing its several heads and ringing in the election season, an imperative question is being overlooked: “Are these policies protecting the underprivileged or digging the grave for the State?” With the tax margin rising with every year, the expenditure for the greater good continues to dwindle. According to the budget allocation for 2021-22, Punjab has allocated 11.6% of its total expenditure for education in this financial year, which is significantly lower than the national average allocation of 15.8% for education by all states in 2020-21. 4% has been allocated to health, which is also lower than the national average allocation of 5.5%. 2.2% has been allocated for rural development against the much higher national average allocation of 6.1%. 1.6% of Punjab’s total expenditure has been allocated to roads and bridges as compared to the national average allocation of 4.3%. Recently, a political outfit promised to give ₹1,000 to every woman in Punjab. By one estimate, in order to make such a distribution, it will cost the state exchequer ₹12,000 crore. But does every woman require those 1,000 rupees? It is said that compassion is a virtue and feeding the blind a noble ideal, but blind compassion is pointless. Imagine if one marshals the same amount of investment in health, education and vocational training of the people of Punjab over a period of five years, it would enhance their entrepreneurial skills, in turn, automatically and adequately addressing, and enhancing the education, health and economic wellbeing of the families residing in the state. To realise the Make-in-India dream, it is essential to give up the freebie policy and to equip the people with adequate skills that would not only aid them in sustaining themselves but also contribute to micro and macro development of the state. Pleasing the populace or widening fiscal deficit? By giving freebies, a class of citizens is being created who are and will remain dependent for the rest of their lives on the state for their roti, bijli, paani, kapda and makaan. For instance, canteens set up in one southern Indian state cannot be withdrawn by any political party since the electoral results would be catastrophic, and amount to nothing short of political suicide. Since 1947, the political diaspora has incrementally been distributing the free largesse with not even one withdrawing what his or her predecessors had started. But where does this end? The introduction of fresh “free” schemes without discontinuing the previous antiquated ones solely for the purposes of pleasing the populace is only widening the fiscal deficit, and adding nails to the coffin of the state and Indian economy at large. While it is understood that the articles included in Part IV of the Constitution of India, i.e. the Directive Principles of State Policy, are essentially the duty of the state to follow in matters of administration and legislation, and making laws and differ from the Fundamental Rights included in Part III of the Constitution. The principles enshrined in Article 47 provide that the State shall endeavour the raising of the level of nutrition and the standard of living of its people, and the improvement of public health as among its primary duties and, in particular, the State shall endeavour to bring about prohibition of the consumption, except for medicinal purposes of intoxicating drinks and of drugs which are injurious to health. That being the constitutional directive, the mélange of freebies announced only demonstrates the lackadaisical and insolent approach of the decision makers. In RK Garg v. Union of India [(1981) 4 SCC 675], while interpreting Article 14, the Supreme Court had laid the twin tests (1) that the classification must be founded on an intelligible differentia which distinguishes those that are grouped together from others, and (2) that differentia must have a rational relation to the object sought to be achieved by the Act. Do these sop schemes meet the test laid in the Article guaranteeing the right to equality? By virtue of the 42nd amendment vide the Constitution (Forty-Second Amendment) Act, 1976, the concept of socialism was breathed into the Constitution of India, but today, the misinterpretation of the same is choking the very people it sought to protect. Empower for life of dignity with promising future Nationalism is an ideology that emphasises loyalty, devotion, or allegiance to a nation or nation-state, and holds that such obligations outweigh other individual or group interests, while patriotism refers to a feeling of attachment and commitment to a country, nation, or political community. Patriotism is based on love for thy nation and nationalism on loyalty towards one’s nation. Further, nationalism does not mean giving freebies at the cost of hampering the citizen’s ability to earn a livelihood. Nationalism is to strive not only for the rights but also to fundamentally serve as per the directive principles of the state policy. Patriotism requires one to protect the right of all citizens and to give each one of them the means to practice trade or vocation or professional activity, and not to put them on dole but encourage them to strive for a livelihood. If nationalism means loving your country and serving it to one’s last breath, then it is in that spirit that every citizen serves, and earns a dignified living for themselves. Can this non-exclusive love for one’s own country survive the varied definitions of ideology or will it take the form of jingoism and labyrinth of misplaced decisions on the back of the tax payers’ money sack? Time has come not to just put morsels to the huddle but to lay a complete bouquet of opportunities to empower citizens of the state to lead a life of dignity and a promising future. jay@jaycheema.com The writer is a Delhi-based advocate-adjunct professor. Views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/no-freebies-marshal-resources-for-better-future-101640799386408.html
29-12-2021||Lucknow||Mercury drops after rain as Met forecasts more showers in UP||Rain lashed at least 18 districts of central and west UP, including the state capital, affecting daily life, on Wednesday. The rain led to a drop in temperatures, and according to Indian Meteorological Department (IMD) forecast, more rain is expected in the next 24 hours. Rain was reported from Meerut, Noida, Pilibhit, Bareilly, Hathras, Bahraich, Sant Kabir Nagar, Lucknow, Gorakhpur, Kanpur, Auraiya, Fatehpur, Prayagraj, Ballia, Varanasi, Mau, Badaun and Agra. The rain sent the Mercury plummeting across the state, forcing people to stay indoors. The day temperatures recorded a sharp drop. In Lucknow, the maximum day temperature was recorded at 17 degrees Celsius, which is five degrees below normal. However, the minimum temperature increased slightly in Lucknow. The minimum temperature was recorded at 13 degrees Celsius on Wednesday, which is five degrees above normal. The minimum temperature is expected to drop in the coming days following rain, according to experts. “The western disturbance as a cyclonic circulation is over the south of Haryana and neighbourhood states between 1.5km and 4.5km above. The trough now runs from the northeast Rajasthan to Vidarbha across West Madhya. These conditions are causing rain in Uttar Pradesh,” reads the forecast issued by IMD. “Under the influence of above meteorological conditions, scattered, light to moderate rain, thundershowers with hail storm are very likely at isolated places, over the southern and central part of Uttar Pradesh on December 29. Scattered, light to moderate rain, thundershowers are very likely at isolated places; over the northern and central part of Uttar Pradesh on December 30,” as per the IMD warning.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/mercury-drops-after-rain-as-met-forecasts-more-showers-in-up-101640799268346.html
29-12-2021||Delhi||DDMA meeting: Delhi's LG lists these measures as Covid spread sparks alarm||Delhi's lieutenant governor Anil Baijal on Wednesday said the Union territory government will not impose any fresh pandemic-related restrictions at the moment, but strictly follow and enforce Covid-appropriate behaviour and continue with the three ‘Ts’ strategy of testing, tracking and treating to combat the spread of the virus.Baijal’s statement came after he chaired a Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) meeting that was attended by chief minister Arvind Kejriwal, NITI Aayog member (health) Dr VK Paul, AIIMS director Dr Randeep Guleria among other prominent government officials and ministers.The meeting took place a day after the Delhi government imposed a ‘yellow alert’ in the city following which all schools, colleges and other educational institutions, cinemas and gyms have been shut.It was decided at the meeting that curbs under the ‘yellow alert' would continue at the moment with the government in a “wait and watch mode”.Taking to Twitter, Baijal said that besides the three Ts, it was reiterated to give special attention on “surveillance, delineation of containment zones, isolation of positive cases and close monitoring of home isolation cases” to break the chain of transmission.
29-12-2021||Lucknow||Yogi rakes up Mathura, says BJP has honoured commitment on Ram temple in Ayodhya||Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Wednesday joined the growing list of his party leaders who have been talking about Mathura being the next destination by stating that if the BJP has fulfilled promises on Ayodhya and Kashi, Mathura won’t be left behind either. Addressing a public meeting at Amroha in western UP, Yogi who had so far refrained from flagging the issue of the Mathura temple, reminded the people that the BJP had honoured its commitment on Ram temple in Ayodhya. Mathura, the western UP town believed to be the birthplace of Hindu god Krishna, has a prominent mosque, the Shahi Eidgah, located next to the Krishna Janmabhoomi (the site believed to be Krishna’s birthplace). The mosque has been at the centre of a legal battle with Hindu groups claiming that the Eidgah was built on land where Lord Krishna was born.“Humne kaha tha Ayodhya mein prabhu Ram ke bhavya mandir nirman ka karya prarambh karayenge. Modi ji ne karya prarambh kara diya hai na. Khush hain? Ayodhya mein Ram Mandir bananey se khush hain, sabhi log? Aur abhi Kashi main bhagwan Vishwanath ka dhaam bhi bhavya roop se ban raha hai. Aapne dekh liya na .. aur phir Mathura Vrindavan kaise chhoot jayega (we had promised to start work on a grand Ram temple at Ayodhya. Modi ji has started the work, isn’t it? Are you happy? Are all of you happy that Ram temple is coming up in Ayodhya? And, a grand abode of Lord Shiva is also coming up in Kashi. You have seen it, right? Then, how can Mathura and Vrindavan be left behind),” he asked the crowd.“There (Mathura) also, work is in progress,” said Yogi who had already launched one of the six Jan Vishwas Yatras from Mathura on December 19. Earlier, on December 2, deputy chief minister Keshav Prasad Maurya had stirred up a fresh row in the poll-bound state as he said that preparations were underway for the construction of a grand temple in Mathura on the lines of Ayodhya and Varanasi.“Ayodhya aur Kashi bhavya mandir nirman jaari hai, Mathura ki tayyari hai (grand temples are being constructed in Ayodhya and Kashi and Mathura will be next),” Maurya tweeted. The tweet had come days after a right-wing group, Akhil Bharat Hindu Mahasabha, announced plans to install a Krishna idol at the Shahi Eidgah after elaborate rituals. The group had, however, cancelled the plan later. “If not in Mathura, where else do you think a grand temple of Lord Krishna would come up? In Pakistan?” UP minister Laxmi Narain Chaudhary had said recently. Chaudhary is a lawmaker from Mathura. Mathura MP Hema Malini too had raised the demand for a grand temple.The growing chorus for a Mathura temple elicited a reaction from the Opposition. “All of them are now playing openly and unabashedly to a familiar polarisation script. Their game plan is clear and by now it is evident to one and all too,” said Congress spokesman Zishan Haider.Samajwadi Party chief Akhilesh Yadav had on Tuesday accused the BJP of seeking votes in the name of religion.“They are taking credit for Ram temple when the fact is that it has come up on the directions of the apex court. Now, none can stop temple construction. But the BJP is an expert in distracting masses,” he had said.The chief minister inaugurated or laid the foundation stone of various schemes while participating in the Jan Vishwas Yatras in Farrukhabad and Amroha.In Farrukhabad, Yogi laid the foundation stone of or inaugurated 174 projects worth ₹196 crore while in Amroha too he inaugurated/laid foundation stone of 31 projects worth ₹43 crore.  Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Wednesday accused the Congress of framing Hindu and Rashtriya Swayamsewak Sangh (RSS) leaders as well as saints in terror cases when it (the Congress) was in power.“Congress ruled the country for the most time. But how were they ruling? You would have seen a statement by Maharashtra ATS today, about how back then (during Congress rule) attempts were made to frame leaders and cadres of the Bharatiya Janata Party, RSS leaders and Hindu leaders in fake cases. You would have noticed Congress mischief in Malegaon case. This is a crime against the country and the Congress should apologise to the country for this,” he said at public meeting in Farrukhabad in western UP.“When in power the Congress attempted to frame Hindu leaders. Now, out of power, they are blocking all constructive attempts,” he said in Farrukhabad.
29-12-2021||Lucknow||Priyanka Gandhi Vadra claims Congress decision on party tickets will pave way for women’s reservation bill||Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra on Wednesday said her party’s decision to give 40% tickets to women candidates in the Uttar Pradesh assembly elections will pave the way for passage of the Women’s Reservation Bill in Parliament one day.She claimed that after Congress raised women-centric issues in Uttar Pradesh, all other parties have realised that women who constitute half the population cannot be neglected any further.The Congress general secretary alleged that the present government at the Centre intended to end reservation in jobs as most government-run companies were being sold to industrialists.She was in Sirsaganj town of Firozabad district in western UP to interact with women during the party’s “Shakti Samvad” programme at a college ground. Before reaching the venue, Priyanka Gandhi Vadra interacted with women engaged in making bangles and tried her hand at it. The Congress leader expressed surprise on coming to know that only ₹3 is paid for joining bundles of bangles with the help of gas cylinders. Women from different walks of life participated in the interaction and raised their issues. The participants included students, lawyers, homemakers, Asha (accredited social activists) bahus, anganwadi workers and a sportswoman.All of them asked Priyanka Gandhi to take up issues faced by women. Later, the Congress general secretary said her party’s catchline “Ladki hoon, Lad Sakti Hoon” is not merely a political slogan.She urged women to realise their “political strength” as they constituted half the population. Women should understand their rights, fight for them and vote for a political party that raises their issues, she said.“The decision to give 40% tickets to women candidates in the forthcoming assembly election is a big initiative and would one day pave the way for passage of the Women’s Reservation Bill, ensuring 33% representation of women in Parliament. The bill was proposed by the Congress government at the Centre and one day political parties will be compelled to get the Women Reservation Bill passed in Parliament,” she claimed.“Once Congress assured 40% tickets to women in UP assembly elections, other parties had to recognise women power. Prime Minister Narendra Modi was forced to organise an all-women rally in Prayagraj and SP leader Akhilesh Yadav also declared schemes for women,” the Congress general secretary said.“There are vacancies in government jobs in Uttar Pradesh, but the state government is not filling them. The government at the Centre intends to end reservation and government establishments, which otherwise provide maximum jobs, are being sold to industrialist friends… Such privatisation will one day end reservation in jobs,” she alleged.“The present government in the state and at the Centre are denying women their rights and thinks that handing over a gas cylinder is all that is required. Congress party’s manifesto or ‘Shakti Vidhan’ will take care of issues faced by women who would be provided guarantee of jobs, opportunities, health, education to women. The Congress plans to provide 20 lakh jobs after coming to power in the state and eight lakh (0.8 million) of these would be for women. The health centres will have a woman doctor each and every police station will have one woman constable, she said.Free legal aid will be provided to women and 25% vacancies in police would be for women, the Congress general secretary said.“But women should not get swayed by politics of caste and religion with elections in the state approaching,” she said.
29-12-2021||Lucknow||UPPCL to flag tariff dispute with its lone foreign consumer||The UPPCL (UP Power Corporation Ltd) is gearing up to take the pending tariff dispute with its lone foreign consumer to the Indo-Nepal Power Exchange Committee for arbitration. The committee is scheduled to hold its 14th meeting shortly in Delhi.The foreign consumer, in question here, is the Nepal government that has a heavy electricity connection of 5,000 kw/kva subscribed in the name of “project incharge”, Nepalganj but has power dues of more than ₹19 crore pending against it.The UPPCL and Nepal authorities are in dispute over the charging of electricity tariff with the former insisting that it will charge tariff as per the rate revised and fixed by the UP Electricity Regulatory Commission (UPERC) while the latter is demanding the tariff be charged at the rate fixed during the agreement when it subscribed to the connection. “We have written to the Madhyanchal Vitran Nigam Ltd (MVVNL), asking it to provide all the relevant details, including, the date when power supply agreement was signed with Nepal so that we can present our case before the Indo-Nepal Power Exchange Committee when it holds it meeting,” UPPCL chief engineer (regulatory affairs) Neeraj Agrawal said when contacted.“We will demand recovery of pending power dues and revision or applicability of the revised electricity tariff as determined by UPERC for any consumers of a similar nature,” he added.As per electricity the bill (for the period from November 1, 2021 to December 1, 2021) provided by the chief engineer (distribution), Faizabad (Ayodhya), to UPPCL, the foreign consumer has a bulk connected load 5,000 kw/kva but consumed only 2044 units worth ₹16,208.92, the current billing rate being ₹7.93 per unit.The same bill showed the consumer having old arrears of ₹19,30,06,000 plus surcharge/interest of ₹38,60,120 though it paid an amount of ₹38,60,120 to MVVNL in the past. “The Nepal government is yet to pay power dues to the tune of ₹19,30,14,578.92 to us,” a discom official said quoting the bill. UPPCL, according to the official, was scheduled to put up the case in a meeting convened by the Union power ministry in Delhi on December 24, but could not do so because MVVNL did not provide necessary details that were required for the purpose. “UPPCL has sought fresh details on the date of power connection issued to Nepal, month-wise details of bills provided to the consumer, the initial order issued after sanction of the connection and connected load, details provided to UPERC in this regard in the past, copies of correspondence done with regard to recovery of power dues etc,” the official said.
29-12-2021||Lucknow||Yogi says govt schools got new lease of life under BJP rule in Uttar Pradesh||Chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Wednesday said had the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) not come to power in 2017, many government primary schools in Uttar Pradesh would have closed by now and a large number of cooks and part-time instructors would have lost their jobs.Yogi said this while interacting with cooks and part-time instructors engaged in UP basic education department in the state capital.“If the BJP government had not come in 2017, many council schools would certainly have been closed. Subsequently, the services of many teachers, instructors, shiksha mitras and cooks would have come under threat,” Yogi said.Yogi Adityanath also said, “When I visited different schools (in 2017), the number of students was rapidly decreasing. In the last four and a half years, changes that were made in the basic education department have helped a lot in altering the people’s perception towards the state.”Yogi released a booklet based on the basic education department’s achievements, “Four and a half years of Upgradation”, on the occasion. The chief minister credited the collective efforts of teachers, instructors, cooks and departmental officers with the massive change in the basic education.Yog Adityanath said Operation Kayakalp was rolled out to rejuvenate government schools.“We identified such people who had studied in government schools, tried to connect them with their alma mater, formed alumni groups and sought their participation in generating resources to strengthen physical infrastructure of the schools,” he said.“We encouraged people’s representatives, government officials, bureaucrats and well to do people to adopt one government school each. As a result, out of total 1.56 lakh government schools, nearly 1.23 lakh schools got a makeover. Operation Kayakalp was a unique experiment. The school buildings were painted and new toilets were built,” Yogi said.Yogi Adityanath said when he started visiting schools in 2017 after becoming chief minister, he found nearly 75% girls and 40% girls used to come to school barefoot and they did not have good uniform to wear.“We are now giving free uniforms, shoes, books, bags and sweaters to 1.82 crore (18.2 million) students to beat the chill. Recently, in view of Covid, the government transferred ₹1100 (each) in their (parents’) bank accounts,” he said.The chief minister said employees all over the world faced a salary cut during the Covid period. There are 16 lakh (1.6 million) government employees in UP, but the state government never thought of cutting their salaries, he said.“We stopped wasteful expenditure and curbed corruption. We are giving free ration to 15 crore (150 million) people,” the chief minister further said.On the contrary, new teachers were appointed in schools to impart quality education to students, he said.Basic education minister Satish Chandra Dwivedi was also present at the programme.Hike in honorarium announcedChief Minister Yogi Adityanath on Wednesday announced fulfilment of the much awaited demand of an increase in the honorarium of part-time instructors and cooks working in the schools of the basic shiksha parishad.The monthly honorarium of 27,546 part-time instructors of the state will be increased by ₹2,000, while the honorarium of 3.78 lakh cooks has been raised by ₹500 per month.Referring to the close relationship between the cooks and the children,the CM directed the department to reconsider the rule that the wards of the cooks should be in the same school for renewal of their service.In an interaction with the instructors and cooks, Yogi also announced that now, on the lines of anganwadi workers, cooks will also get two saris every year, along with free health insurance cover up to ₹5 lakh. At the same time, the amount to be spent on buying apron and cap will be sent to their bank accounts.In view of the demand to increase the monthly honorarium of part-time instructors who get only ₹7,000, the CM announced an additional increase of ₹2,000 to take it to a respectable level.Yogi said that despite limitations, the honorarium of cooks was increased from ₹1000 to ₹1500 per month in 2018. Now in view of the challenges of Covid-19, once again it is being increased by ₹500, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/yogi-says-govt-schools-got-new-lease-of-life-under-bjp-rule-in-uttar-pradesh-101640797885789.html
29-12-2021||Jaipur||Rajasthan makes Covid vaccination mandatory for entry to public places from January 31||The Rajasthan government on Wednesday made Covid-19 vaccination mandatory for all citizens entering public places from January 31. Issuing the latest pandemic-relatic guidelines, the government said the decision was taken to expedite the state's vaccination drive.The Ashok Gehlot-led government also announced restrictions under the night curfew from 11pm to 5am and called for its strict implementation due to the rapid rise of the new and highly infectious Omicron variant.Following are other key points from the new guidelines:Rajasthan reported a total of 46 Omicron infections till Tuesday of which 30 patients have recovered.As many as 97 fresh Covid-19 cases were reported in the state on Tuesday, including 75 from Jaipur. The active cases in Rajasthan currently stand at 438.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jaipur-news/rajasthan-makes-covid-vaccination-mandatory-for-entry-to-public-places-from-january-31-101640795210214.html
29-12-2021||Lucknow||No entry in Pilibhit Tiger Reserve sans Covid-19 sampling||Amidst recent spike in Covid-19 cases, the health department of Pilibhit has made it mandatory for people visiting Pilibhit Tiger Reserve (PTR) to give sample for Covid-19 infection.The administration has issued a notice regarding the same on Tuesday. Chief Medical Officer (CMO) of Pilibhit Alok Sharma said, “The Pilibhit Tiger Reserve attracts visitors from far off places during this time of the year. We want to ensure that the people who visit the reserve are tested for Covid-19. Arrangements are being made for the same and we will be able to begin sampling by Friday.”Sharma said “The reserve has several entry and exit points. The health department will set up a team at each of these points to collect sample for RT-PCR testing from tourists. Some tourists also enter the reserve area in their own vehicles. We have made arrangements to ensure sampling of such tourists too. Our department is working closely with the officials of the reserve to implement it.” The CMO further said in case a tourist tests Covid positive while in the reserve, he/she will be isolated along with the group as per the current Covid-19 protocols. If the tourist leaves the reserve before the RT-PCR reports comes in, they would be informed at their homes.Besides the health department, forest officials are also planning to make vaccination certificate mandatory for all adult visitors in coming days. The reserve had earlier made vaccination certificate essential for elderly visitors (over 60 years of age) last year.Set up in 2013, Pilibhit Tiger Reserve is one of the youngest tiger reserve in the country. Located in the Terai region, it has a healthy population of tiger that attracts a large number of tourists.The tourist season in the PTR begins from November 15 and continues till May 15 under normal conditions. However, the previous two tourist seasons at PTR were cut short due to the first and second waves of Covid-19.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/no-entry-in-pilibhit-tiger-reserve-sans-covid-19-sampling-101640796625644.html
29-12-2021||Lucknow||Senior bureaucrat DS Mishra set to be UP’s next chief secy||LUCKNOW Ahead of the UP Assembly elections, housing and urban affairs secretary Durga Shankar Mishra was on Wednesday repatriated to his parent cadre Uttar Pradesh as the Yogi Adityanath led government proposes to appoint him as the new chief secretary. A 1984 batch IAS officer of the UP cadre, Mishra, who was due to retire on December 31, was given one-year extension in service. “The Appointments Committee of the Cabinet has approved repatriation of Durga Shankar Mishra, IAS (UP: 1984) to his cadre for his proposed appointment as chief secretary, Uttar Pradesh, by the state government,” said an order dated December 29, 2021 issued by Deepti Umashankar, secretary Appointments Committee of the Cabinet. Currently, Rajendra Kumar Tiwari, a 1985-batch IAS officer, is the chief secretary of UP. He is due to retire in February 2023.“DS Mishra will reach here on Thursday. The state government may issue his order of appointment simultaneously with the order for new posting for RK Tiwari,” said a senior officer of state government. Though Tiwari has been empanelled for deputation to union government, uncertainty prevails over his likely appointment at the centre or with the state government. “I will hand over charge as chief secretary to DS Mishra on Thursday,” said Tiwari, when contacted.An electrical engineering graduate from IIT Kanpur and an MBA from University of Western Sydney, Mishra has held various important positions with union government as well as government of Uttar Pradesh. The Union government approved the proposal to grant one-year extension to Mishra. “The approval of central government is hereby conveyed for extension of service to Durga Shankar Mishra, IAS (UP:1984) for one year beyond his normal age of superannuation i.e. 31/12/2021 in relaxation of Rule 16 (1) of the AIS (DCRB) Rules, 1958 by invoking Rule 3 of AIS (CSRM) Rules, 1960, in the event of his being appointed as chief secretary, UP,” said an order of union government. The move to appoint DS Mishra ahead of the assembly elections became a point of discussion in the corridors of power. There was speculation that his appointment was likely to lead to major administrative reshuffle in the state administration.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/senior-bureaucrat-ds-mishra-proposed-to-be-new-up-chief-secy-101640795965529.html
29-12-2021||Mumbai||1.3 million citizens eligible for booster dose in Mumbai: BMC||Mumbai: As part of its precautionary measure to fight rising cases of Covid-19, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) will start rolling out the booster doses, covering around 1.3 million eligible citizens in phases from January onwards. This includes those above 60 plus years with comorbidities, health care and frontline workers.The municipal corporation will provide Covid-19 vaccination for 0.920 million teenagers between the ages 15-18, from January 03, for which they also decided to tie up with city colleges to vaccinate teenagers.According to BMC officials, around 10.20 million senior citizens have taken both vaccination doses and they will be eligible for the third dose, subject to them having comorbidities. However, in January, only 50,000 senior citizens will be eligible for the third dose, and of these, only those having comorbidities can take them.Suresh Kakani, additional municipal commissioner, BMC informed, “The eligible senior citizens for the third dose will be only those who have taken their second dose. This number will be 10.20 million senior citizens, and of these only, those having comorbidities will be eligible.”Kakani further added, “There is no estimation of the exact figure but the majority of the citizens above 60 years of age will be with comorbidities. Further, around 0.3 million health and frontline workers will also be eligible for the third dose.”According to the BMC officials, they will be following the guidelines issued by the Central government for vaccinating teenagers and providing the third dose. On Wednesday 48,144 citizens were vaccinated in Mumbai taking the count to 17,890,595 vaccine doses administered in the city. 107% of citizens have gotten the first dose, including the floating population while 86% have got the second dose in the city.Meanwhile, guardian minister Aaditya Thackeray on Wednesday took a review meeting with BMC officials on the spike of Covid-19 cases being reported daily and on the kicking off the vaccination drive. Thackeray took to Twitter saying, “Seeing the surge of covid cases in Mumbai, we held a meeting at the BMC to review the situation, preparation, as well as to plan for the proposed vaccination for ages 15-18 that we want to carry out in early January. I urge all not to panic but to exercise extreme caution. In the next 48 hours, BMC will be connecting with all educational institutions in the city to plan an organised vaccination drive for all those from 15 to 18 years of age.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/13-million-citizens-eligible-for-booster-dose-in-mumbai-bmc-101640795785613.html
29-12-2021||Pune||From January, Serum Institute of India dispatched 1.3 billion Covishield doses||PUNE According to the statistics provided by the Serum Institute of India (SII), at least 1.3 billion doses of the Covishield vaccine have been dispatched from SII since January, of the total doses, 0.089 billion have been exported globally and the Lohegaon international airport accounts for more than half of the of the Covishield doses transported across the country.As per the Ministry of External Affairs, around 90 countries have received Covishield vaccines since January 20. Bangladesh, Nepal, and Morocco have been the highest recipients of the vaccine as of December 24.At least 69.58 crore Covishield doses have been transported across the country from the Lohegaon international airport in Pune , despite its infrastructural constraints between January and December 23, this year.A senior airport official said, at least 0.083 billion doses were dispatched from Lohegaon international airport in Pune during the phase 1 and 2 of the vaccination drive, which began on January 16. When the Central government took over the vaccination drive, the phase 3 and 4 witnessed a hike in vaccine being dispatched from the city airport. September recorded the highest vaccine dispatched through flights with 0.12 billion doses delivered to various cities in the country. Around 2.16 lakh doses were also exported to five Central American countries from the city airport.According to the data available on the CoWIN website, a total of 1.43 billion vaccine doses have been administered in India. Covishield accounts for more than 88 percent of it, with 1.27 billion doses administered across the country.BOXCovishield distributed in India- 1.2 billion dosesCovishield exported globally- 0.89 billionTotal Covishield dispatched- 1.3 billion (approx)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/from-january-serum-institute-of-india-dispatched-1-3-billion-covishield-doses-101640794945466.html
29-12-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra reports 85 new Omicron cases, Mumbai has 53 of them||Maharashtra on Wednesday reported 85 new cases of the Omicron variant of coronavirus, pushing the statewide tally to 252. So far, 99 of the patients have been discharged following a negative RT-PCR test, the state health department said.Of these, 53 cases were detected in Mumbai that reported a massive spike in its daily Covid-19 tally at 2,510. The remaining infections of the new highly transmissible variant were reported from Kalyan Dombivali, Nagpur, Pimpri Chinchwad, Navi Mumbai, Pune, Panvel, Kolhapur and some other places. With this, Mumbai’s Omicron tally touched 137.Maharashtra reports 85 new cases of #Omicron variant of CoronavirusState records 3,900 fresh COVID cases and 20 deaths today, taking total active cases to 14,065 pic.twitter.com/xcuTMKbYxVAs far as the overall Covid-19 figures are concerned, the state reported a major jump in the last 24 hours with 3,900 new cases taking the cumulative tally to 66,65,386. A day ago, 2172 fresh infections were recorded. The positivity rate currently stood at 9.69%.With 20 more people dying from the viral disease, the state’s fatality tally was pushed to 1,41,496. Also, 1,306 people recovered from the disease that took the cumulative recovery figure to 65,06,137.Earlier in the day, the Maharashtra government released a new set of detailed guidelines for New Year celebrations this year and urged citizens to keep it “low key” in view of the ongoing Covid-19 crisis.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-reports-85-new-omicron-cases-mumbai-has-53-of-them-101640794268736.html
29-12-2021||Pune||SSC, HSC: State board issues notification to waive off late fees for exam registration||PUNE Maharashtra State Board of Secondary and Higher Secondary Education (MSBSHSE) issued a notification on Wednesday waiving off late fees for candidates registering for the Class 10 and Class 12 examination which will be conducted in 2022.Along with this, the notification stated that the students for Higher Secondary Certificate (HSC) and Secondary school Certificate (SSC) can also fill the exam form one day before the exam date.The examination is scheduled from March 4 next year.“Earlier, the Class 10 exam form was to be filled with late fee till January 1 and for Class 12 till December 28. Now the students can also fill the form one day before the examination. Also, the late fee has been waived off,” states the notification.Last week, Maharashtra Education Minister Varsha Gaikwad had announced that students appearing for Class 10 and Class 12 board exams of the state board will now be able to submit their exam forms till one day before written exams without payment of any late fee.“A complete exemption of late fees has been given. No one should miss out due to technical difficulties,” Gaikwad had said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/ssc-hsc-state-board-issues-notification-to-waive-off-late-fees-for-exam-registration-101640793985316.html
29-12-2021||Pune||Pune district reports 406 new Covid cases, 9 deaths||PUNE On Wednesday, Pune district witnessed a rise in the daily new Covid-19 cases. As per authorities, Pune district reported 406 new Covid positive cases and nine deaths in the last 24 hours. Out of these three deaths were reported from Pune rural. Two deaths were reported from Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC) and four deaths were reported from Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) in the last 24 hours.As per the state health department, PMC has so far reported 525,838 covid cases and 9,256 deaths till Wednesday. PCMC has reported 271,115 cases so far and a total of 3,525 deaths. Pune rural has reported 369,584 cases and 7,033 deaths.In Pune district, there are 1,166,537 lakh covid cases. Out of this, 1,144,320 patients have recovered. There have been 20,164 deaths in the district. And at present, there are 2,053 active cases in Pune district.As per the state health department, 1,306 patients were discharged on Wednesday in Maharashtra taking the total to 65,06,137 in the state. The recovery rate in the state is 97.61%.Across Maharashtra, 3,900 new cases of Covid were diagnosed on Wednesday and 22 Covid-19 deaths were reported. The case fatality rate in the state is 2.12%. The state health department stated out of 68,768,760 laboratory samples, 6.665,386 have been tested positive till Wednesday. That is 9.69% of patients till Wednesday.Currently 122,906 people are in home quarantine and 905 people are in institutional quarantine.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pune-district-reports-406-new-covid-cases-9-deaths-101640793504503.html
29-12-2021||Lucknow||Urdu poet Akbar is ‘Allahabadi’ again: Original pen names of literary figures restored on UPHESC website||PRAYAGRAJ The original pen names of renowned Urdu poets were restored on the website of Uttar Pradesh Higher Education Services Commission (UPHESC) on Wednesday, a day after it was reported that the suffixes had been changed on the portal from ‘Allahabadi’ to ‘Prayagraj’ prompting officials to claim that mischievous elements were behind this change.On Tuesday, the name of Urdu poet Syed Akbar Hussain (popularly known as ‘Akbar ‘Allahabadi) was found changed to ‘Akbar Prayagraj’ on the website of the UPHESC, an autonomous body under the state government. The ‘Allahabadi’ suffixes of all writers/ poets were found changed to ‘Prayagraj’ on the portal. These included Rashid Allahabadi (born 1944) and Tegh Allahabadi (1930-1970) on the list of Urdu poets from the city. They were listed as Rashid Prayagraj and Tegh Prayagraj, respectively. “Akbar Prayagraj is a noted modern Urdu poet, and Nooh Narwi, Tegh Prayagraj, Shabnam Naqvi and Rashid Prayagraj have their origin in Prayagraj,” the website’s ‘About Prayagraj’ section had read. However, after sharp reactions from literary figures and Netizens, the pen names of these poets were restored to the original. UPHESC secretary Vandana Tripathi on Wednesday said the suffixes of the poets were correct in the Hindi version of the website, but due to a technical fault, the suffixes got changed in the English version of the website. “The due correction has now been made,” she added. Allahabad district was renamed as Prayagraj in 2018 by the Yogi Adityanath government.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/urdu-poet-akbar-is-allahabadi-again-original-pen-names-of-literary-figures-restored-on-uphesc-website-101640793386541.html
29-12-2021||Pune||Koregaon Park police station sans ramp facility for differently-abled||PUNE The newly built police station at Koregaon Park is one of the best police stations in the city other than the commissioner’s office, but it has failed to follow the rules of inclusivity as there is no ramp facility for differently-abled and senior citizens.The space for the police station in lane number 4 was sanctioned in 2008, by the state government, given the increased crime rate and rapid urbanisation in Koregaon Park. The project took off after the German Bakery bomb blast in 2010, following which the district collector allotted 10 guntha land for the project in 2011.“While the police are talking about the good work by the Bharosa cell to support senior citizens, how are they supposed to reach the station when there is no ramp facility or railing provided to climb the ten-odd stairs at the entrance in a semi-circular design at the Koregaon Park police station? Any senior citizen is bound to feel giddy and fall. In addition, Pune Police have barred the entry/exit of every person who is differently-abled without proving a ramp,” said Lisa Pingale, who had gone to the police station with her father who is a senior citizen.According to the Rights of Persons with Disabilities Act 2016, it is mandatory that every government building must have a ramp facility giving due respect to disabled persons for ease in movement.Anita Iyer Narayan, consultant accessibility, diversity and inclusion, founder and managing trustee, Ekansh Trust, said, “It will be difficult for disabled or senior citizens to use the staircase. The police need to put handrails in place, the flower pots have to be cleared and a ramp with at least one landing in between using slip-proof tiles. There have to be tactile markers for those who are visually impaired. There is simply no accessibility for disabled or for senior citizens.”“The police need to be sensitised and some idea of sign language is essential. The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) and public works department (PWD) should not pass such design structures at all unless it is fully accessible,” she said.The newly appointed police inspector Vinayak Vetal agreed that there is no ramp facility for easy accessibility for senior citizens and for differently-abled.“I have just taken charge and yes, this police station does not have a ramp, but I will welcome suggestions from residents to rectify this,” he said.Commissioner of Police, Amitabh Gupta, said, “We will do the needful at the earliest.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/koregaon-park-police-station-sans-ramp-facility-for-differentlyabled-101640793385243.html
29-12-2021||Patna||Covid alert: Bihar closes parks till Jan 2||The Bihar government had decided to close all the parks and gardens of the state from December 31, 2021, till January 2, 2022, in view of the possible third wave of coronavirus and the spread of Omicron variant in other states, according to an order issued by the state home department late Tuesday night. Apart from this, wearing of masks, social distancing and other Covid curbs are to be strictly followed in all types of social/political/entertainment/sports/educational/cultural and religious events/programmes. Officials said the decision has been taken after the number of active cases crossed 150 on Tuesday. Although no Omicron cases have been detected in the state so far, the state now has 155 Covid positive active cases, 76 of which are in the state capital itself. In the Covid-19 test camp set up by Guru Gobind Singh Hospital at Kangan Ghat in Patna, 11 workers working on a project were found positive.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/covid-alert-bihar-closes-parks-till-jan-2-101640793029656.html
29-12-2021||Dehradun||2 Uttarakhand men found dead by roadside. Police find 2 more bodies at home||HALDWANI: Four members of a family were found dead on Wednesday in Udham Singh Nagar district of Uttarakhand on Wednesday afternoon, police said.A passerby first spotted bodies of two young men by the roadside in the district’s Nanakmatta area. When a police team went to their house to investigate the murders, they found bodies of two elderly women including the mother of one of the victims, said superintendent of police, Mamta Vohra.All of them had their throat slit, a second police officer said on condition of anonymity.Police was initially told about two bodies lying in the bushes near Khatima highway in Nanakmatta area. “They were identified as Ankit Rastogi,20, and his cousin Aditya, 24,” the officer said.“After identifying them, a police team went to Ankit’s home where bodies of his mother, Asha Rastogi, 55 and grandmother Sanno Devi, 80, were also found,” the officer said.Mamta Vohra said no arrests have been made yet.“Police are however, questioning the family members and neighbours of the deceased family. Accused would be identified soon and arrested,” she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/dehradun-news/2-uttarakhand-men-found-dead-by-roadside-police-find-2-more-bodies-at-home-101640793027998.html
29-12-2021||Patna||Central team points to shortage of Covid drugs in Sitamarhi, low RT-PCR tests in Bihar||A four-member Central team has reported near-absence of drugs, considered vital in the management of Covid-19, in Sitamarhi, where it inspected the district hospital on Tuesday, the second day of its four-day visit to the state, said sources in the state health department.The team found that there was no stock of Remdesivir and Enoxaparin injections, while around 700 vials of Dexamethasone injection were available in the district. It also termed the situation alarming, officials accompanying the Central team said.While Remdesivir stops SARS CoV-2 virus, which causes Covid-19, from spreading in the body, Enoxaparin is used to prevent and treat harmful blood clots and helps to reduce the risk of a stroke or heart attack. Dexamethasone, a corticosteroid, is used for its anti-inflammatory and immunosuppressant effects in the management of Covid-19.The team advised the Sitamarhi civil surgeon to expeditiously procure these drugs from local suppliers, even as the consignment of drugs through central purchase by the state health department is expected to arrive from Patna by mid-January.The Central team also found that the district was underperforming in real-time polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) tests, a confirmatory test for Covid-19.The team also noted that the district was performing at two-third its capacity of conducting 940 RT-PCR tests a day, and pointed out that the state needed to ramp up its RT-PCR testing facility, as it was quintessential in detecting active Covid-19 cases. At present, only 30% of the total Covid-19 tests in the state are being conducted through RT-PCR, while the remaining 70% through rapid antigen kits, which has a possibility of giving up to 40% false-negative results.The team, during its meeting with Sitamarhi district magistrate Sunil Kumar Yadav, stressed conducting RT-PCR tests compulsorily of all passengers arriving in the district by train or inter-state buses.The team, however, expressed satisfaction that adequate arrangements for oxygen were put in place at most state health facilities, including the Sri Krishna Medical College Hospital (SKMCH), Muzaffarpur, which it also visited on Tuesday.On Wednesday, the team visited the Patna railway junction, the Rajendra Memorial Research Institute of Medical Sciences (RMRIMS), Nalanda Medical College Hospital, Patna Medical College Hospital, and the Indira Gandhi Institute of Medical Sciences, all in Patna.The Central team, headed by Dr. Arti Bahl of the National Centre for Disease Control (NCDC), New Delhi, includes Dr Neeraj Kumar, also from the NCDC, Dr Saurabh Karmakar of AIIMS-Patna, and Hemant Mahajan of RMRIMS, Patna.Most of the Central team members refused to comment on the ongoing inspection.Efforts to reach Sanjay Kumar Singh, executive director of the State Health Society, Bihar, Sunil Kumar Yadav, district magistrate, and Dr. Rameshwar Safi, civil surgeon of Sitamarhi, proved futile, as they did not respond to phone calls.The Centre has deployed multi-disciplinary surveillance teams in 10 states, including Bihar, as a potential third wave of the Covid-19 pandemic looms.
29-12-2021||Patna||Crime in 2021: Prohibition kept Bihar cops busy, 9 get death for hooch tragedy||The year 2021 kept the Bihar Police on its toes. While enforcing liquor prohibition remained the biggest challenge, corruption in officialdom kept the vigilance wing busy in the last quarter of the year, which saw frequent raids and searches. A blast at Darbhanga railway station in a parcel arriving from Secunderabad, though minor which caused no injuries, became a cause of concern after the probe revealed a terror link. Additional director general of police (headquarters) Jitendra Singh Gangwar said there was no let-up in crackdown against outlaws. “In 2020, about 1,417 criminals were convicted across the state while 2,565 criminals have been convicted so far in 2021. Similarly, in corruption cases, the Economic Offences Unit (EoU) and Special Vigilance Unit (SVU) launched a drive against corrupt government officials and lodged more than 20 cases,” said Gangwar. Liquor smuggling In prohibition cases, Bihar Police registered around 60,000 FIRs, arrested over 75,000 persons, including 1,800 hailing from outside the state, and convicted 253 people in 2021. The police seized 13, 839 vehicles in this connection. Death sentence for hooch tragedyA Gopalganj court awarded death sentence to nine people in the 2016 hooch tragedy case in which 19 people died and two lost vision. The court sent four of the women accused to life imprisonment. Prohibition was enforced in Bihar on April 5, 2016. Terror casesOn June 17, a parcel containing clothes sent from Secunderabad to Darbhanga by a train exploded while being unloaded. The National Investigation Agency (NIA), on December 24, filed a charge sheet against five people, including Hafiz Iqbal alias Kana, an alleged operative of terror outfit LeT.A special NIA court of Patna awarded life sentences to three terrorists of Jamat-ul-Mujahideen Bangladesh (JMB) and 10 years’ imprisonment to five others for the IED explosion in Bodh Gaya in 2018 when Tibetan spiritual leader, the Dalai Lama, was camping in the town to participate in the month-long Kalachakra puja. Four of the nine men convicted for the 2013 blasts at Patna’s Gandhi Maidan were sentenced to death by an NIA court in Patna, which also sentenced the five other convicts to prison terms ranging from life to seven years. Six people were killed and 90 others injured in seven blasts on October 27, 2013, right before BJP’s PM candidate Narendra Modi was to reach the venue to address an election meeting. Judge versus policeThe Patna High Court took suo motu cognizance after two police officers in Madhubani district allegedly assaulted an additional district judge at Jhanjharpur subdivisional court. One of the police officers, a station house officer, was relieved of his charge after the judge filed a complaint. The policemen have also alleged that they were assaulted by lawyers and court staff. The HC is still hearing the case. Murder that rocked Bihar IndiGo Airlines’ manager Rupesh Kumar Singh was shot dead on January 12 outside his residence in Patna, a killing that hit the national headlines. On February 3, police arrested a youth, identified as Rituraj Singh, 28, and claimed he killed Rupesh days after the latter’s car hit his bike that led to an altercation between the two. Crackdown on corruptionTwo Indian Police Service (IPS) officers, four deputy SP rank officers and four other officials were suspended for their alleged role illegal mining. All are currently facing departmental proceedings. HC lets off massacre accusedSetting aside the conviction by a district court, the Patna High Court acquitted all the 13 accused in the 1999 Senari massacre case in which 34 upper caste people were killed allegedly by members of the Maoist Communist Centre (MCC) in Senari village, then part of Jehanabad district and now in Arwal district. The Supreme Court has agreed to examine an appeal of the Bihar government against the High Court’s judgment. 1,582 sub-inspectors inducted The understaffed Bihar Police inducted 1582 sub-inspectors, including 596 women after the passing out parade at the Bihar Police Academy (BPA) in Rajgir, which was attended by chief minister Nitish Kumar.
29-12-2021||Other||Nitish loses cool at Muzaffarpur rally||Bihar Chief Minister Nitish Kumar on Wednesday lost his cool when his speech was interrupted by some people at a public event he was addressing here as part of his ongoing social reforms campaign.Kumar has been touring the state and holding public meetings against liquor consumption, dowry and child marriage.“What mischief are you indulging in? Do you have no regard for social reforms? If it is so, leave this place,” Kumar snapped, when a scuffle between some people in the crowd and security personnel caught his attention.According to the police, some local elected representatives had come to submit a memorandum to the chief minister and picked up a quarrel when they were stopped at a distance from the dais.The matter was resolved after the district police chief had a word with the agitated people, though not before they had received a tongue lashing from the chief minister.“This meeting has been primarily organised for women. You people have been allowed to watch. Do you think social awakening is required only for them and not for you men?” said a visibly upset Kumar.“If you have any grievances, meet me when I am through with the function,” he said.Kumar then resumed his speech. It was, however, not known whether the chastised members of the crowd got an audience with him.The chief minister launched his “Samaj Sudhar Abhiyaan (social reforms campaign)” on December 22 and has so far toured East Champaran, Gopalganj and Rohtas districts.Kumar’s decision in April 2016 to ban sale and consumption of liquor has been under scanner since hooch tragedies around Deepawali claimed more than 40 lives and police went into an overdrive to strictly enforce prohibition.Fresh embarrassment for him came a few days back when Chief Justice of India N V Ramana remarked that the prohibition law in Bihar suffered from a “lack of foresight” and has resulted in higher judiciary getting “clogged with bail applications”.Kumar, however, has been undeterred, saying that no exemption will be granted even to people coming from outside and they “need not visit Bihar if prohibition inconveniences them”.PTI||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/nitish-loses-cool-at-muzaffarpur-rally-101640792967052.html
29-12-2021||Ranchi||CM Soren announces ₹25/L subsidy on petrol for ration card holders in J’khand||Jharkhand chief minister Hemant Soren on Wednesday announced to provide ₹25 per litre in subsidy to all ration card holders in the state if they buy the fuel for their two-wheelers. Each family holding a ration card would be entitled for the subsidy up to 10 litres of petrol every month. “We have decided to provide a relief of ₹25 per litre on petrol to the poor, labour and middle class. This scheme will be implemented from January 26,” Soren said at the state-level event at Morhabadi ground here to mark two years of his alliance government, which comprises his party Jharkhand Mukti Morcha, Congress and Rashtriya Janata Dal. Though Soren did not elaborate on the modalities of the scheme in his speech, his office later tweeted stating that the scheme is meant for fuel being bought for two-wheelers by ration card holders.“Petrol and diesel prices are skyrocketing. It has had bad impact on the poor and middle class families. Many poor families are not even being able to ride their motorcycle due to the soaring fuel prices. They are not even being able to sell their produce. So, I have decided that if ration card holders buy petrol for their motorcycle or scooter, we will transfer money into their accounts at the rate of ₹25 per litre. We will implement this scheme from January 26. All such families could avail of this scheme every month,” Soren’s office said in a tweet. As per the data of the National Food Security Act (NFSA), Jharkhand currently has 58.25 lakh ration card holders.There have been repeated demands by the opposition BJP in the state to reduce VAT (value-added tax) on petrol and diesel, especially after the Centre reduced excise duty on these fuel whose prices had hit a record levels above ₹100 per litre across country. The Soren government, however, has so far refused to reduce the existing VAT rate (22 per cent or ₹17 per litre, whichever is higher, on petrol). On Wednesday, petrol was selling at ₹98.52 in state capital Ranchi. Jharkhand BJP president Deepak Prakash described the announcement an eyewash. “This would also prove to be a mere announcement like other electoral promises of this government. If the state government is so concerned for the poor, they should have reduced VAT rate on both petrol and diesel and provide relief to common people. This government would again take a U-turn on this announcement as done in the past,” said Prakash. The chief minister laid foundation stone of various projects, besides unveiling the new tourism policy of the state. He also announced credit cards for students soon in order to provide them educational loans.Governor Ramesh Bais, JMM president and Rajya Sabha member Shibu Soren and former union minister and Jharkhand Congress in-charhe RPN Singh were also present on the occasion.Riders applySubsidy only for petrol for two-wheelersSubsidy up to 10 litres of petrol every monthNo reduction in VAT rate yetState currently has 58.25 lakh ration card holders||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ranchi-news/cm-soren-announces-rs-25-l-subsidy-on-petrol-for-ration-card-holders-in-jkhand-101640792965625.html
29-12-2021||Chandigarh||CM wants home portfolio, I have offered to quit, says Anil Vij||Haryana home minister Anil Vij, who was divested of the urban local bodies’ portfolio on Wednesday, had offered to resign from the council of ministers on Tuesday after being told that he may also have to lose the home portfolio.The outspoken minister on Wednesday told HT that his offer to quit came when chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar expressed his intent to divest him of the home department as well.‘Campaign on to divest me of home dept’“I told the CM on Tuesday that a campaign is being run for the last two years to oust me from the home department. Why divest me of the home department only? I am willing to give up all my portfolios,” the six-time MLA said.Clearly riled up at the prospect of being divested of the home portfolio, the minister said he has also drafted a letter offering to quit.Vij said he was initially told by the CM that he will have to shed one portfolio for allocating it to newly-inducted minister Kamal Gupta.“But then, the CM told me that he also wanted the charge of home department for himself. So, I told the CM that I was ready to relinquish the charge of all portfolios and will give this in writing to the governor,” Vij said.As on Wednesday, Vij holds the portfolios of home, health, medical education and research, Ayush, technical education, and science and technology.‘Not fascinated by privileges of a minister’The minister said he is not one to cling on as a cabinet minister and would be happy to work for people as an MLA.“I am clear and categorical on these issues. I am a BJP worker and will always remain one. Ministerial berths, portfolios, perks and privileges do not matter to me. I have told the CM that I am willing to give up all my portfolios,” Vij said.The home minister said he was peeved at not being formally informed by the CM about Tuesday’s cabinet inductions.“We as ministers at least need some ‘izzat’ (respect). Isn’t it appropriate that the CM discusses such important developments with his cabinet colleagues,” Vij added.
29-12-2021||Pune||Event organisers in a fix over restrictions on NY festivities||PUNE With government allowing events with up to 50 per cent of the seating capacity in closed halls and 25 per cent occupancy in open spaces for New Year festivities , the event organisers in Pune are largely disappointed with the guidelines.Rohan Jaiswal an event manager said, “We were to host a party for 200 persons on New Year’s eve, but now we have to limit the guests to 75 because of the new guidelines.” A number of events have been planned in hotels and lawns across Pune. Event organisers are worried that the guidelines will have a financial impact on the business. “We had planned an event, passes of which ranged from ₹500 to ₹5,000. They have been all sold out. Being at an indoor venue, we are worried about the capacity. Now if more people come in then it would be a problem for us despite all the Covid safety measures being taken,” said an event planner on condition of anonymity.  Pune district collector Rajesh Deshmukh said, “We appeal to all the citizens to strictly follow the Covid safety guidelines while celebrating. Elderly people and children should try to remain at home. We will take strict actions against event planners who violate the guidelines.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/event-organisers-in-a-fix-over-restrictions-on-ny-festivities-101640792484998.html
29-12-2021||Bangalore||DK Shivakumar scolds man for trying to take selfie with him, cites Rajiv Gandhi||Karnataka Congress president DK Shivakumar on Wednesday scolded a man for trying to take a selfie with him in Mandya district.In a clip shared by news agency ANI, the Congress leader can be seen grabbing the mobile phone of the man and moving the device away from his face.Shivakumar later cited the assassination of former Prime Minister Rajiv Gandhi to defend his act. He said one cannot be sure what the other person is carrying in his hand. “You know what happened to Rajiv Gandhi. Sometimes, human anger and emotions come out, nothing wrong in that,” the Congress leader was quoted as saying by ANI.#WATCH | Karnataka Congress chief DK Shivakumar scolds a man who tries to take a selfie with him in Mandya"We don't know what one might have in hand. You know what happened to Rajiv Gandhi. Sometimes, human anger & emotions come out, nothing wrong in that," the leader says pic.twitter.com/cMjh7LuXbpKarnataka Congress president DK Shivakumar on Wednesday scolded a man for trying to take a selfie with him in Mandya district.In a clip shared by news agency ANI, the Congress leader can be seen grabbing the mobile phone of the man and moving the device away from his face.Shivakumar later cited the assassination of former Prime Minister Rajiv Gandhi to defend his act. He said one cannot be sure what the other person is carrying in his hand. “You know what happened to Rajiv Gandhi. Sometimes, human anger and emotions come out, nothing wrong in that,” the Congress leader said.|#+|Gandhi was assassinated by a suicide bomber belonging to Liberation Tigers of Tamil Eelam in May 1991 during an election rally in Karnataka. The incident resulted in the death of 14 other people.This, however, is not the first time that the Congress leader lost his cool in public. In July, a video of him slapping a party worker after he reportedly tried to put his arms around the former went viral on social media. According to PTI, Shivakumar later asked the cameraman to delete the footage and asked the person to behave responsibly.In a statement later, he did not deny the slapping, but asked if such acts (putting arm around) can be allowed simply because one is a ‘karyakarta (worker)’. “What will others looking at it say?” he added.Last week, the Kanakapura MLA had torn a copy of the anti-conversion bill that was tabled in the Karnataka Assembly. The Congress camp had later walked out of the Assembly as a mark of protest against the bill.It was passed days later amid a major uproar from the opposition.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/dk-shivakumar-scolds-man-for-trying-to-take-selfie-with-him-cites-rajiv-gandhi-101640783426157.html
29-12-2021||Mumbai||Warmer mornings, cooler days a trend in Mumbai this December||MUMBAI: This past month, Mumbai has witnessed its warmest December mornings in over a decade, with the average daily minimum temperature touching 20.18 degree Celsius as compared to 19.77 degree Celsius in 2020. This is the first time in over a decade that the average minimum reading for December has crossed the 20 degree Celsius threshold. The lowest minimum recorded this month was 17.4 degree Celsius on December 29 while last year, the lowest minimum temperature was 15 degree Celsius on the same date.D S Pai who heads the climate research and services division at the India Meteorological Department (IMD) in Pune said, “So it is clear that the nights and early mornings have been warmer than the last few years, but just because the minimum temperature is showing an increase, we cannot say that December as a whole was warmer. The data shows that during daytime, the conditions were actually cooler than usual.” The average daily maximum temperature recorded in Mumbai this year was 31.1 degree Celsius, the lowest since 2017.For comparison, the average maximum temperature in 2020 and 2019 stood at 32.67 and 32.68 degree Celsius, respectively. The highest maximum recorded this December was 35 degree Celsius on December 13, as compared to a seasonal high of 36.4 degree Celsius last year. One of the reasons for this, according to Pai, could be the presence of a greater amount of moisture in Mumbai’s air this December due to the prevalence of rain-bearing easterly winds.Earlier this month, the city recorded 91mm of rain on December 1, marking the month’s wettest day on record. This was due to a vigorous northeast monsoon in India, combined with a low pressure system over the southeast and east-central Arabian Sea at the time. “As a result, we’ve had more cloudy days across parts of the Konkan and even interior Maharashtra. This moisture helps to cool during the day, but at night it acts like a greenhouse gas and traps terrestrial radiation, pushing up the minimum temperature,” Pai said.Akshay Deoras, an independent meteorologist and PhD researcher at the University of Reading, UK, agreed with this broad argument but cautioned that the trend of warmer mornings and cooler days cannot be attributed to a single factor alone. “The appropriate meteorological factor would have shown up had this difference in averages been very large, such as three to four degree Celsius or more, in which case you’d expect major changes in the wind direction and some sort of linkage to other phenomena,” said Deoras, emphasising that a linear relationship between moisture and temperature is hard to imagine in this case since other factors are also at play.However, Deoras agreed that an ‘hyperactive northeast monsoon’ likely played an important role in the incursion of moisture over the region this December. “Relative humidity over 22 days of December remained higher than the normal values at about 5,000 feet off the ground. But there’s a major difference between December 1 to 11 and December 12 to 22 with the values sharply going down during the latter part as the influence of the northeast monsoon ended,” Deoras said.Deoras offered another explanation saying, “If you get winds from the north (and not strictly north but from the northern states), the minimum temperature reduces due to the transport of cold air. This month, such instances are not being seen that frequently,” he said. IMD data in fact shows that there have been only three days this month that Mumbai received strong winds blowing directly from the north, between December 27 and 29, which were responsible for the dip in mercury levels on Wednesday morning.“It would be my hypothesis that such cold snaps or northerly winds have not been felt that strongly this time, which has reduced the cooling in general around Mumbai. In fact, above average minimum temperature is seen not just in the city but also in the adjoining areas of Konkan and madhya Maharashtra,” Deoras explained.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/warmer-mornings-cooler-days-a-trend-in-mumbai-this-december-101640791165013.html
29-12-2021||Pune||332,176 children screened by Pune ZP, 1,660 are malnourished||PUNE The health department of the Pune zilla parishad, under the Child Health Screening Program , carried out check-ups of 332,176 children between the ages of 0 to 6 years residing in rural areas. Out of these, 4,768 children require medical intervention. Of the 4,768 children, around 57 per cent children have reported ENT related issues. And 1,660 children are either have Moderate Acute Malnutrition (MAM) and Severe Acute Malnutrition (SAM) in the district.Speaking about the screening of children, Ayush Prasad, chief executive officer (CEO), ZP said, “Those requiring immediate medical attention have already been shifted to concerned hospitals. Specialists would conduct check-ups from January 3 in each rural hospital. They would diagnose the medical condition and begin treatment. The surgeries will be done free of cost under Rastriya Bal Suraksha Karyakram.”“Under Malnourishment Free Pune, we had reduced malnourishment by 84%. Such intensive screening has also never been carried out anywhere in India and the world, Improving the health of the children is our top priority,” said Prasad.While ear ,nose and throat related issues have been the most among children followed by deficiency reported among 1,320 children. Eye related issues have been reported in 1,290 cases and 554 cases of skin conditions were reported. There are also 325 cases of childhood diseases followed by 233 birth defect cases in the district.Jamsing Girase, deputy CEO, Integrated Child Development Services (ICDS), ZP Pune said that a team of Community health officer, Medical health officer, anganwadi workers and ASHA worker are involved in the screening. “This screening will help many children lead a healthy life. There are over 70,000 children who are yet to be screened. We have found several children with vitamin D and vitamin B12 deficiency. We will organise a Taluka level camp where expert doctors will check the children again and then perform critical analysis and will refer the children to the hospital further,” said Girase.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/332176-children-screened-by-pune-zp-1-660-are-malnourished-101640790924878.html
29-12-2021||Delhi||Delhi sees biggest jump in new Covid cases since May with 923 infections, positivity rate at 1.29%||Delhi on Wednesday recorded the biggest jump in single-day Covid-19 cases since May this year with 923 infections. According to the latest health bulletin data, case positivity rate in the national capital currently stood at 1.29 per cent.The last time the national capital logged over 900 cases in a day was on May 30 when 946 infections were reported.Delhi has been consistently seeing an uptick in fresh Covid-19 cases. Today's figures are 427 more than Tuesday's when 496 new cases were reported. The overall virus tally of Delhi has now shot up to 14,45,102 with the active case count touching 2,191.Delhi is also a leading contributor to India's Omicron tally with 238 confirmed cases so far. Maharashtra, which till now was the top contributor, dropped to the second slot after reporting no Omicron case on Tuesday.Earlier in the day, in a Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) meeting chaired by lieutenant governor Anil Baijal, it was decided no fresh curbs will be imposed in the city and the ‘yellow alert’ will continue to remain in place.The meeting was attended by chief minister Arvind Kejriwal and AIIMS director Dr Randeep Guleria, among other government officials and ministers,The ‘yellow alert’ was sounded a day ago in Delhi in the wake of the worsening pandemic crisis. This alert meant all schools, colleges and other educational institutions, cinemas and gyms would remain shut for the next few days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-sees-biggest-jump-in-new-covid-19-cases-since-may-with-923-infections-101640788395914.html
29-12-2021||Mumbai||Resident doctors of Sion, KEM Hospitals to withdraw services from today||Mumbai After first-year resident doctors of Sion Hospital joined the nationwide protests by withdrawing from both elective and emergency services from 8 am on Wednesday, all resident doctors from KEM and Sion hospitals will go on an indefinite strike starting Thursday. In separate statements released by the resident doctors of the respective hospitals, they have clarified that all elective, emergency and OPD services will be withdrawn from 2 pm onwards at Sion Hospital whereas, at KEM Hospital, students will start their strike from 5 pm. Resident doctors at KEM Hospital, however, have stated that they will continue working in full force in Covid wards despite the strike.This move comes 48 hours after several resident doctor associations across the country showed solidarity with their fellow doctors who were attacked first, then arrested in Delhi for participating in a peaceful protest.“We (resident doctors) have been working at two-thirds strength for at least seven months now, and are overworked and burnt out both physically and mentally. For weeks now, many of us have been preparing peacefully demanding that first-year postgraduate admissions be initiated, but despite assurances from several Central government authorities, no timeline for admissions have been announced yet,” said the statement released by Maharashtra Association of Resident Doctors (MARD), KEM Hospital.Similarly, MARD representatives at Sion Hospital have decided to join their first-year resident doctors starting Thursday. There are nearly 600 resident doctors in Sion Hospital and 790 in KEM Hospital working at present.“It has been more than six months that we have made multiple legal appeals, protested silently and despite working with only two-thirds of the workforce, our pleas have fallen on deaf ears. What is even more unacceptable is the manner in which peaceful protesting resident doctors were thrashed by the police and eventually arrested as well in the national capital,” added their statement. For weeks now, resident doctors across the country have been participating in a protest to raise objections to the delay in PG medical admissions. One of the major concerns raised by these doctors has been the extra work being shared by just two batches of resident doctors instead of three. “At a time when the country is witnessing a rise of a new Covid variant, the least that needs to be done is strengthening of the health care system and we need all hands on deck,” said one of the protesting doctors and added that these admissions will ensure 45,000 more doctors entering the healthcare sector.NEET-PG 2021 exam, which should take place in January, was postponed to February first, then April this year. It was eventually delayed indefinitely due to increasing cases of Covid-19 registered across the country.The entrance test was finally conducted in the month of September this year, but admissions post the exam has been stayed by the Supreme Court which is currently hearing a series of petitions filed by students questioning the validity of implementation of EWS and OBC quota in all India quota (AIQ) seats and admissions remain stayed until January 6, 2022.“All these months we’ve ensured emergency and Covid duty does not get affected but this attack on our fellow doctors has not gone down well with the entire community,” said another resident doctor. 
29-12-2021||Chandigarh||Unconditional love of the ever wandering mongrels||More than 90% of street dogs are not violent; only 2% are overly aggressive. Their count is never decreasing, remaining the same or even increasing and it has made us used to having them in our midst this long. If not disturbed, they mostly do not bother anyone and one can safely go past them watching and enjoying them, or dreading them prudently. One or two may look to see if there are any possible handouts coming their way. Most of them appear healthy and handsome. In spite of frequent non-eventful meetings with so many free roaming dogs, what astounds me is that I did get bitten quite badly just last month, by my friend’s domestic pet dog, not by the so-called fearful ones on the street. I had approached the familiar family dog with my friend’s consent and he being annoyed, unpredictably attacked my arm. The dog not having had an anti-rabies shot, prompted me to go running to hospital for the obligatory treatment. A 2013 study of13 Tamil Nadu schools found that roaming pet dogs accounted for more than half of the dog bites suffered by students. The survey of a Kerala hospital also reflected the same results. More than 50% dog owners do not keep tabs on the vaccination of their pets. Well, these poor, feral dogs have to take the blame of all dog bites. A majority of dogs are undoubtedly among the most responsive and loving animals. Dog spelled backwards is God and many say that it is no coincidence as both exhibit unconditional love and forgiveness. I had the privilege of befriending a free and growing dog. We had seen his pregnant mother visiting the bushes of our residence. Soon she gave birth to five beautiful puppies. Of all these, the only one that lasted, was the most docile. The rest of the pups could not survive primarily due to attacks by bigger dogs and other accidents. The survivor, named Boxie, was seen to grow into a handsome white-fur chap with black patches. He would frequent our place greeting us with a wagging tail even if not given any treat. If shouted at harshly for sitting in damp flower beds during the summer, he would just give me a meek look with his ears drooping and would slip away with a limp tail. Sometimes, he would come with another brown street dog, nicknamed Brownie. If we exhibited any affection for Brownie, Boxie would come between us and his friend, protesting with jealous growls, showing his possessiveness of us. In spite of no responsibility or any efforts for his care, there were countless memorable joyous moments with him. Suddenly, after about five years, Boxie disappeared. I then realised that street dogs rarely live more than this time due to numerous predicaments around. Since 1992, International Homeless Animals Day has been conceived by the International Society for Animal Rights, which was celebrated on August 21 this year. As per the motto of this day, it’s encouraging to know that adopting street dogs is gaining popularity in India. Nowadays, in this chilly weather, it is indeed heart-warming to see a few stray dogs looking stately, covered in dog jackets. They do have good friends maybe limited, undertaking to mitigate their suffering. It’s true: Dogs are not our whole life, but they make our lives whole. anshularao@gmail.com The writer is a Chandigarh-based retired additional superintending engineer of BBMB||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/unconditional-love-of-the-ever-wandering-mongrels-101640789904926.html
29-12-2021||Mumbai||At 17.4° Celsius, Mumbai sees coldest morning of season||Mumbai: On Wednesday, the city temperature dipped to 17.4 degrees Celsius, the season’s coolest morning so far. The mercury had last dropped below the 18 degrees Celsius mark on December 24, when it settled at 17.9 degrees Celsius, as per the India Meteorological Department’s (IMD) observatory in Santacruz, which is taken as representative of the city and suburbs.Wednesday’s minimum temperature is down from 19 degrees Celsius the previous day. Officials attributed the dip to the influence of a cold snap blowing over the Konkan, carrying cooler air from north India. “Throughout the month there has been a lot of variation in the intensity and direction of winds. For Mumbai and surrounding, head on winds directly from the north are important for cooling at this time of the year. We are experiencing such winds at the moment, but there will be another spike in temperature in a few days once the wind direction changes again,” said an official with IMD’s regional forecasting centre in Mumbai.As per IMD’s seven-day forecast for the city, the minimum temperature is expected to rise slightly over the next week, touching 19 degrees Celsius once again by December 31 and 21 degrees Celsius by January 3. The maximum temperature is expected to hover around 31 degrees Celsius during this time, up from the 29.3 degrees Celsius reading on Tuesday (which was two degrees below normal).Air quality in Mumbai improved to the ‘moderate’ category on Wednesday evening, with an AQI value of 173. This was down from 239, indicating ‘poor’ air, earlier in the day as per the System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting And Research’s (SAFAR) network of monitors in the city. “This is because of the strong influence of northerly winds, but there will be a dip in speed after Saturday, so there may be another spike in pollution after that,” said the IMD official cited above.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/at-17-4-celsius-mumbai-sees-coldest-morning-of-season-101640788526312.html
29-12-2021||Pune||Truck that crushed 3 pedestrians in Pune set ablaze by unknown persons||PUNE The truck that crushed three pedestrians to death on Tuesday, was vandalised and then set ablaze by unknown persons, said officials on Wednesday.According to officials, the Sinhgad police have traced down the owner of the truck and recorded their statement. The truck which was stationed at the accident spot near Navale bridge chowk, was vandalised and then set on fire on Wednesday, In the afternoon, the half-gutted truck was moved from the spot in the afternoon by the police.“The truck owner has not registered any complaint with the police. We will register the offense after receiving a complaint. As of now, it is not known who set the truck on fire and for what reasons,” said senior police inspector Yusuf Shaikh of Sinhgad road police station.According to officials, the unidentified persons first vandalised the truck by throwing stones, causing damage to the windows and windshield. The persons then set fire to the cabin and engine compartment. No one was injured in the incident.“The officials from the Regional Transport Office (RTO) have studied the mechanical aspects of the truck and we are waiting for their reports for further legal action. Also a fire audit of the truck will be conducted by the fire brigade department,” added Shaikh,Sub-inspector Amol Kale of Sinhgad road police said, “We have tracked down the truck owner. A team is searching for the truck driver and we have received information about his whereabouts. We will track him down and arrest him soon.”During a visit to the accident spot, HT found that commuters are risking their lives by still standing on the highway to board their company buses to ravel towards Shirval and Satara.The truck carrying industrial equipment from Pimpri to Satara, hurtled down almost 600m in a reverse mode on the Bhumkar bridge near Navale bridge chowk on the bypass highway, running over three people and hitting a car and two SUVs before coming to a halt at 9am on Tuesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/truck-that-crushed-3-pedestrians-in-pune-set-ablaze-by-unknown-persons-101640788169027.html
29-12-2021||Mumbai||Central Railway to carry out 24 hrs mega block between Kalva-Diva on Sunday||Mumbai: Passengers travelling on the Central Railway will face commuting inconveniences due to a 24-hour railway block, starting from 2am on Sunday till 2am on Monday between Kalva and Diva railway stations. The block will be operated by the railways to construct the fifth and sixth railway lines between Thane and Diva railway stations. During the period, semi-fast railway train services between Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj Terminus (CSMT) to Kalyan will be diverted on the fast railway line between Kalyan and Mulund and will not halt at Thakurli, Kopar, Mumbra and Kalva railway stations. Suburban services will not be available at Kalva, Mumbra, Kopar and Thakurli stations during the block period.“Passengers boarding from Kalva, Mumbra, Kopar and Thakurli railway station are advised to board trains from Thane, Diva, Dombivli and Kalyan station,” informed Shivaji Sutar, chief public relation officer, Central Railway adding, “We have arranged to operate buses in coordination with municipal transport corporations.”14 outstation trains will be cancelled during the block period, three outstation trains will be cancelled on Saturday, nine trains on Sunday and two trains will be cancelled on Monday. Four outstation trains will also be short terminated. Earlier the Central Railway on December 19 had taken an 18-hour block for the construction work of fifth and sixth Thane and Diva railway stations. The fifth and sixth railway lines project between Thane and Diva is a part of the Mumbai Urban Transport Project(MUTP 2B) that got approval in 2008.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/central-railway-to-carry-out-24-hrs-mega-block-between-kalva-diva-on-sunday-101640787984825.html
29-12-2021||Delhi||Delhi Police revises SOP on health welfare for personnel amid Omicron threat||Amid a rise in the number of coronavirus cases and that of its new variant Omicron, the Delhi Police has revised the standard operating procedure on health welfare for its personnel, stating that an officer of the rank of inspector and above should personally visit the hospitalised personnel or their kin on a regular basis, according to an official statement issued on Wednesday.Special Commissioner of Police (Welfare) Shalini Singh held a meeting with all the district and unit heads and other stakeholders on Wednesday to check the overall preparedness in the wake of a community spread of Omicron, the statement said.Singh stressed on strict adherence to the revised SOP issued recently by the Delhi Police commissioner, the statement said."The revised SOP is more elaborate and covers complete well-being of our personnel suffering from any disease and admitted in hospital for medical treatment. The DCPs and unit heads have been designated, nodal health officers."The nodal health officers will ensure that an officer of the rank of inspector or above should personally meet the hospitalised personnel or their kin, on a regular basis till she or he gets fit. In case of outstation cases, video-conferencing with the ailing or their family members be ensured with regular feedback on the health of the ailing personnel," it added.All the eight wellness centres and two Covid care centres at Rohini and Shahdara will be activated for any medical emergency. The district heads should liaise with the collectors to turn those into vaccination centres, the statement said.The district and the unit heads should take stock of oxygen cylinders, concentrators, sanitiser, masks, preventive medicines etc. and keep all equipment ready. They should also liaise with doctors to counselling the personnel.The data of the staff should be updated for the administration of booster doses of Covid vaccines. The family members of the police personnel should be motivated to get inoculated against the viral disease and those in the 15-18 age group should be urged to register themselves on the Cowin portal, the statement said.The estate officers of the police colonies should set up helpdesks to facilitate the installation of the Cowin application on mobile phones and the registration process.Necessary precautions such as wearing masks, maintaining social distancing and regular sanitisation should be repeatedly reiterated during morning and evening briefings. The office premises and the vehicles should be sanitised regularly, the statement said."Immunity booster kits and COVID-19 protection kits be arranged for ready distribution as and when required. Liaison officers to get in touch with local hospitals and reserve beds for our personnel, in case the need arises. Quarantine rooms be also arranged for those staying outside Delhi,it added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-police-revises-sop-on-health-welfare-for-personnel-amid-omicron-threat-101640786440772.html
29-12-2021||Lucknow||2 held in Amethi after video of Dalit girl being tortured goes viral||LUCKNOW: Two men were arrested in Amethi on Wednesday for allegedly assaulting a 16-year-old Dalit girl in Raipur Phulwari town on suspicion of theft, police said..A video clip of the incident surfaced online and has sparked outrage on social media. HT was not able to independently verify the authenticity of the clip.In the clip, one of the men can be seen holding the girl down while the other hits her on the feet with a stick repeatedly. Later, the man assaulting the girl is seen dragging the girl on the floor and grabbing her by the hair.Additonal SP (Amethi) VK Pandey said an FIR was registered against three people in connection with the case, based on a complaint by the girl’s father.The FIR was registered under Indian Penal Code (IPC) sections 342 for illegal confinement, 323 for voluntarily causing hurt and 354A for molestation. Relevant sections of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (Pocso) Act and SC and ST (Prevention of Atrocities) Act were also slapped against them, Pandey added.Congress leader Priyanka Gandhi Vadra attacked the Yogi Adityanath-led UP government over the incident, stating that her party would launch an agitation if the accused were not arrested soon.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/2-held-in-amethi-after-video-of-dalit-girl-being-tortured-goes-viral-101640787444940.html
29-12-2021||Mumbai||At 2,510, Mumbai records massive jump in fresh Covid cases in 24 hours||Mumbai on Wednesday recorded 2,510 new infections in the last 24 hours. The tally is more than 80 per cent of the daily cases recorded in the Maharashtra capital a day ago at 1,333.According to the latest updated figures shared by the city civic body Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC), the country’s financial capital reported one related death and 251 recoveries. At present, the city has 8,060 active coronavirus cases. Earlier in the day, Maharashtra cabinet minister Aaditya Thackeray said Mumbai is likely to cross the 2,000-mark in Covid-19 cases today given the number of fresh infections being recorded over the one past week.“Last week, we were reporting 150 cases per day. Now, we are reporting around 2,000 cases everyday. Mumbai may cross 2,000 per day cases today,” the city's guardian minister said.The Maharashtra government released a new set of detailed guidelines for New Year celebrations this year and urged citizens to keep it “low key” in view of the ongoing Covid-19 crisis.In Mumbai, the BMC has restricted gathering of more than five people at public places between 9pm to 6am.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/at-2-510-mumbai-records-massive-jump-in-fresh-covid-cases-in-24-hours-101640786299762.html
29-12-2021||Jaipur||‘Pinku and Bablu’: Why Rajasthan cops set up SIT to track down 70 stolen donkeys||JAIPUR: A special investigation team has been set up by the police in a Rajasthan village 300km from state capital Jaipur to trace 70 donkeys stolen from cattle rearers over the past week or so, police said on Wednesday.The team, led by an assistant sub-inspector (ASI) in Hanumangarh district’s Khuiyan police station, was formed after the police, which was facing pressure from residents of Devasar village, initially claimed to have ‘recovered’ 15 donkeys.But the bunch of protesting complainants - they camped outside the police station on Tuesday evening to prod the police to act - declined to accept these donkeys, said Khuiyan station house officer Vijendra Sharma.It turned out that the cattle rearers had a name for each of them. Names such as Pinku, Mohar and Bablu, said Sharma. And the 15-17 donkeys recovered by the police didn’t respond to any of them.Sharma said they bluntly refused to accept them. And he had to set up the special team.They eventually ended their dharna outside the police station after officers promised to find their donkeys within 15 days.“A police team led by ASI and five constables are searching the missing donkeys,” the police officer said.According to reports from Hanumangarh, the villagers told the police that each donkey was worth about ₹20,000, and the 70 donkeys, worth a princely sum of ₹14 lakh.Rajasthan, which has a 500-year-old tradition of hosting a mega donkey fair in Jaipur district, has 23,000 donkeys that are mostly used by nomadic pastoralists in brick kilns for carrying bricks and pulling wheel carts. The population of the beasts of burden in the country and Rajasthan has, however, declined steeply. Between 2012 and 2019, their population in the country fell by 61%, according to the Centre’s livestock census. In Rajasthan, the decline has been sharper; 70%.Sharma said officers from his police station have sounded out people in the nearby villages to be careful about their livestock, especially donkeys, in view of the serial thefts.
29-12-2021||Mumbai||Nurse arrested after patient dies due to wrong injection||Mumbai The Shivaji Nagar police have arrested a 30-year-old nurse after she had allegedly given a wrong injection to a patient in a private hospital at Govandi, who was later shifted to the KEM hospital and died. A panel of doctors which included three doctors of Sir JJ hospital, after examining the medical reports of the deceased, concluded that the death of the woman occurred due to a wrong injection.Based on the doctor’s report of JJ hospital, the Shivaji Nagar police registered a case in the last week under Section 304 (II) and 34 (common intention) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) against doctor Rehan Khan of Mannat hospital and nurse Nafisha Mohammad Aslam Shaikh, said police officer. According to the police, the victim, Shabana Sayyad, 36, a resident of Shivaji Nagar area, Govandi was running a fever when she visited Mannat hospital which is located near her residence on October 2, 2020. Nafisha was working as a nurse and she gave her an injection and some medicine without even consulting the doctor. But after two days, Sayyad’s condition worsened and she contracted an infection at the spot, where she was administered the injection, added the officer.She again visited the hospital and Nafisha gave a few more medicines. On October 6, 2020, when the victim’s family members asked the doctor for the reason behind the swelling and infection, the doctor decided to operate. The victim was operated on and discharged soon thereafter. Looking at the victim’s condition, the family rushed her to KEM hospital on October 9, 2020, where she died, said senior inspector Kishore Gayke of the Shivaji Nagar police station.The family then demanded an investigation and based on their demand the board of three doctors of JJ hospital examined the victim’s medical report and record. The panel of doctors arrived at a conclusion two days ago and based on their report we recorded a statement of the victim’s sister Shehnaz Ansari, 45, and registered a case and arrested Nafisha, said Gayke.“We have also recorded the statement of Dr Rehan Khan, owner of the hospital but he claimed that he had called a visiting doctor, Kazim Khan who operated on the victim. We have been now investigating that part also to find out who conducted the operation,” added Gayke.Dr Rehan Khan is an MBBS doctor while Nafisha lives in Shivaji Nagar area and has not submitted any document related to her qualifications as a nurse, added the officer.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/nurse-arrested-after-patient-dies-due-to-wrong-injection-101640785824683.html
29-12-2021||Mumbai||SBI contract employee shot dead by masked robbers at Dahisar||Mumbai A 25-year-old State Bank of India (SBI) employee died after he was shot in the chest by unidentified robbers when he tried to stop them from entering the Dahisar branch of the bank on Wednesday afternoon.According to the MHB Colony police, the incident took place at 3:22pm when Sandesh Gomare was sitting outside the bank as he was hired on contract basis to carry out the work outsourced by the bank to an external agency. Gomare saw two men with their nose and mouth covered with a handkerchief enter the bank suspiciously.Gomare stopped the men and asked them for identification when one of them used a country-made revolver and shot Gomare at point-blank range at his chest.The officers from the MHB Police station said that the men then barged in the bank and robbed the cash and fled before anyone could raise an alarm. “The robbers fled the spot within two minutes taking with them whatever cash they could get their hands on,” said a police officer of MHB Police station. The employees of the bank alerted the police and rushed Gomare to Shatabdi hospital, where he was declared dead on arrival. Gomare was a resident of Virar. Based on the statements of the witnesses, the police learnt that the robbers were approximately 20 to 25 years old and had fled in the direction of Dahisar railway station.Officers said that at the time of the robbery, there were at least eight employees in the bank as it was nearly closing time. “The bank was targeted as it is located in a non-crowded area and has less surveillance,” added the officer.The MHB Police have registered a case of murder and robbery against two unidentified men and are now scanning CCTVs of the surrounding area to find out the identity of the robbers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/sbi-contract-employee-shot-dead-by-masked-robbers-at-dahisar-101640785644876.html
29-12-2021||Lucknow||UP cops to get ₹2000 SIM allowance, 25% hike in diet allowance||LUCKNOW The state government on Wednesday issued orders for 25% increase in nutritious diet allowance for police personnel (from constable to inspector rank) and ₹2,000 annual SIM allowance to civil police and armed police (constable to sub-inspector rank), stated a press release shared by the state home department. Additional chief Secretary (home) Awanish Awasthi informed that currently the diet allowance for inspector, sub-inspector and clerk ranks was ₹1,200, which was increased to ₹1,500 while the diet allowance of head constables and constables was raised to ₹1,875 from ₹1,500. The diet allowance of Class IV employees was hiked to ₹1,688 from ₹1,350, according to the release.The ACS informed that the SIM allowance will be provided to S-I, head constable and constable rank personnel of civil police as well as Provincial Armed Constabulary while being on field postings. He said the SIM card allowance of ₹2000 annually will be paid in two parts of ₹1,000 each in January and July every year.The press note further read that this decision was taken in compliance of chief minister Yogi Adityanath’s directives. The police department so far had no policy of providing SIM allowance, but now a major percentage of police force comprising constables, head constables and sub-inspectors would be benefited by this allowance added to their salary structure.The CM had announced the hike in diet allowance and SIM allowance for police personnel during his address on Police Commemoration Day at Lucknow Reserve Police Lines on October 21 this year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/up-cops-to-get-2000-sim-allowance-25-hike-in-diet-allowance-101640781684491.html
29-12-2021||Delhi||Int'l travellers testing negative at airport, contracting Covid later: Delhi health minister||Delhi health minister Satyendar Jain on Wednesday said several international travellers, who are testing negative for the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) upon arrival at the airport, are found to be positive after a few days and infecting their family members during the period. He said district authorities are in touch with such travellers.Jain blamed international flights for the consistent surge in daily Covid-19 cases that the national capital is currently witnessing. “Even during the earlier waves, the cases rose with the flights coming in,” he told reporters.According to existing guidelines as shared by the Union health ministry, travellers from “at-risk” countries who test negative for coronavirus at the airport have to mandatorily undergo home quarantine for seven days.On the eighth day, they are tested again and if the result turns out to be negative again, they are required to self-monitor their health for the next seven days.For those arriving from nations not identified as ‘at-risk’, a random 2 per cent will need to take the RT-PCR test at the airport. If the result is negative, they are required to self-monitor their health for at least 14 days.In both cases, if travellers test positive for Covid-19 at any time, their samples are sent for genome sequencing. These patients are managed at a separate isolation facility and “treated as per laid down standard protocol, including contact tracing”.Further, their contacts are kept under institutional quarantine or at home isolation, and their health is strictly monitored by the state government concerned.Also Read | No New Year celebrations in Delhi, Mumbai, Chennai, Bengaluru. Details hereJain's statements came a day after Delhi recorded the biggest jump in single-day Covid-19 cases since June 4 with 496 infections and yet another death.Meanwhile, the national capital's Omicron tally on Wednesday climbed to 238, thereby making it the worst-hit region in India. Maharashtra, which was till now been the top contributor, has so far logged 167 of the 781 infections related to the highly transmissible variant reported in the country.Jain also assured citizens that the Delhi government is fully prepared to tackle the prevailing crisis. “Till now, what we have seen is that patients are not requiring oxygen for treatment and are getting cured easily,” he was quoted as saying by PTI.The Delhi government on Tuesday imposed “yellow alert” in the city in wake of the coronavirus situation. This includes closing schools and colleges, cinemas and gyms, among others. A night curfew has also been imposed between 10pm and 5am.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/intl-travellers-testing-negative-at-airport-contracting-covid-later-jain-101640774296167.html
29-12-2021||Pune||Basic amenities still a distant dream for residents of Porwal road in Lohegaon||PUNE Deprived of basic amenities, residents of Porwal road in Lohegaon are upset with the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) as the civic body has not taken any action against their complains and failed to provide basic amenities in the area.The Porwal road is two kilometres away from Pune airport and residents here do not get water supply from PMC, power fluctuation is an everyday problem and there is a lack of proper road connectivity.The road starts at the old Octroi chowk on Dhanori-Lohegaon road and ends at DY Patil road. New housing societies are coming up along the entire stretch in addition to the two high schools located here.The residents wrote a public letter over social media addressing mayor Murlidhar Mohol, Member of Parliament Girish Bapat and other dignitaries.The letter reads, “We are residents of Porwal road, Lohegaon, Pune. The area is two kilometres away from Pune airport. Yet, we don’t have basic facilities like government water or a DP road. The only road (Porwal road) we have is very narrow and we face traffic jams regularly. Even the electricity supply is not regular. We face power cuts every day. Amid the pandemic and restrictions, students and people who work from home are affected by this. The closest area to the airport doesn’t even have a BSNL line. This is the level of development... We pay property tax also. Do we not deserve basic facilities...”“We have personally met officials from the road and water department but none of them responded to our complains. Worst is no one knows the exact answer and they keep giving excuses or false promises,” said Shreyas Rathi, resident of Porwal road.“We face a lot of problems during monsoon, but there is no reply from PMC despite repeated communication,” added Rathi.An official from the PMC water department on condition of anonymity said, “The pipeline work is going on. Water issue will be solved soon.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/basic-amenities-still-a-distant-dream-for-residents-of-porwal-road-in-lohegaon-101640780424403.html
29-12-2021||Delhi||DDMA meeting: No fresh Covid restriction in Delhi for now, 'yellow alert' to continue||The Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) on Wednesday decided not impose any fresh restrictions in view of the rising Covid-19 cases in the national capital.Lt Governor Anil Baijal chaired a virtual review meeting of the DDMA that was attended by the chief minister Arvind Kejriwal.It was decided at the meeting that prevailing curbs under ‘yellow alert’ will continue at the moment.The authorities decided ‘amber alert’ will not be imposed at the moment and the government will remain in a wait and watch mode. Further restrictions will be imposed keeping in view the bed occupancy in hospitals of Delhi in its next meeting, an ANI input quoting sources said.Also read | Delhi under strict Covid curbs as yellow alert kicks in: Full listThe national capital on Tuesday registered a massive spike in daily Covid-19 with 496 fresh cases, the highest since June 4, while the positivity rate also rose to 0.89 per cent along with one fatality. Delhi on Wednesday recorded 238 Omicron cases. There were 165 cases of the new variant a day earlier.Health minister Satyendar Jain said many international travellers, who have tested negative at the airport, are testing positive after a few days and infecting their family members during the period.In wake of the rise in cases, the Delhi government on Tuesday sounded a ‘yellow alert' under which schools, colleges, cinemas and gyms will remain closed. Shops dealing in non-essential items will open on an odd-even basis, and metro trains and buses will run with 50 per cent of seating capacity in the city.The yellow alert is imposed when the Covid-19 positivity rate stays above 0.50 per cent for two consecutive days. "||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/ddma-meeting-no-fresh-restrictions-in-delhi-for-now-yellow-alert-to-continue-101640779268539.html
29-12-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab elections: Two-time former SAD MLA Jagdeep Nakai joins BJP||The Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) suffered a setback after its two-time former legislator Jagdeep Singh Nakai joined the Bharatiya Janta Party (BJP) in New Delhi on Wednesday. Also read: Induction of Cong, SAD leaders part of BJP’s plan to gain lost ground in PunjabA friend of SAD chief Sukhbir Singh Badal since school days, Nakai was elected for two consecutive terms from Joga in Mansa district in 2002 and Maur in Bathinda in 2007. Nakai was inducted in the party fold by Union minister and BJP in-charge of Punjab Gajendra Shekhawat. He is tipped to be the BJP candidate from Maur. In the 2012 elections, Nakai had announced a break from active politics, making way for senior SAD leader Janmeja Singh Sekhon from Maur. In 2017, Nakai was fielded by the SAD from Mansa but he finished third. After winning for the second term in 2007, he was appointed chief parliamentary secretary (CPS) by the Parkash Singh Badal-led SAD-BJP government. Nakai courted controversy when he was arrested by the Punjab vigilance bureau in July 2003 in a disproportionate assets case besides forgery and criminal conspiracy. He has served as the chairperson of the Bathinda district planning committee. His father Balvinder Singh was the chairperson of fertiliser major IFFCO (Indian Farmers Fertiliser Cooperative Limited).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-elections-two-time-former-sad-mla-jagdeep-nakai-joins-bjp-101640778504446.html
29-12-2021||Patna||Bihar govt seeks to promote transparency in Panchayati Raj institutions||The Bihar government plans to build Panchayati Raj Bhawans, which will work as secretariats at the grassroots level to ensure people get their work done through a centralised system as part of efforts to promote transparency. Samrat Choudhary, the state Panchayati Raj minister, said there is currently no proper system for auditing funds, which leads to a non-submission of utilisation certificates and a lack of monitoring of work. He added though Panchayati Raj Institutions (PRI) have been functional in the state and the money is also being spent, the focus now will be putting a system in place to ensure the benefits reach the people, the quality of work is regularly monitored and there is accountability for every rupee spent.Also Read | Third wave of Covid-19 has started in Bihar, says chief minister Nitish Kumar Choudhary cited a Comptroller and Auditor General report and said it has pointed to non-submission of utilisation certificates for around ₹37,000 crores spent through PRIs. “It is important to know the trail of funds spent by PRIs, but right now there is... (no) mechanism for periodic auditing. For the piped water scheme alone, the department has given ₹2,000 crores to the public health engineering department for execution. More funds under different schemes are coming and efforts are on to create the system for it.”Choudhary said the government will appoint audit officers at the block and district levels. “We are creating an engineering cell for executing and monitoring work, which will also track the fund flow for different schemes. Efforts are also being made to reduce red tape... The Panchayati Raj officers have been named new executive officers of panchayat samities replacing the block development officers.”Amid questions over the quality of work, especially in the piped water scheme, Choudhary said it was being taken care of with the constitution of State Quality Monitor (SQM) for supervision of work at the block and panchayat level.“The SQM will comprise retired officers from the administration and engineering fields. We have created 131 posts. There will be 8000 executive officers.”Choudhary said there will be a schedule for officers from various departments--health, education, food supplies, revenue, agriculture, rural development-- for addressing people’s complaints. He added the Centre will provide Bihar ₹1000 crores annually for five years to address healthcare needs in the rural areas. “This will involve setting up primary health centres (PHCs), additional PHCs and health centres as well as supply of medicines,” he said.Choudhary said the new Panchayat Bhawans will be made of eco-friendly fly ash bricks and blocks. “Each Panchayat Bhawan costs around ₹1-1.5 crore. Around 3,000 Bhawans are being built and more will be required.”
29-12-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai may log over 2,000 Covid-19 cases today, warns Aaditya Thackeray||Maharashtra tourism and environment minister Aaditya Thackeray on Wednesday said Mumbai may cross the 2,000-mark in Covid-19 cases during the day given the number of fresh infections being recorded over the past week.Thackeray made the statement after chairing a meeting with senior officials of the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC).“Last week, we were reporting 150 cases per day. Now, we are reporting around 2,000 cases everyday. Mumbai may cross 2,000 per day cases today,” the city's guardian minister told reporters.BMC commissioner Iqbal Singh Chahal, Mumbai mayor Kishori Pednekar and senior health officials attended the meeting.Mumbai reported 1,333 Covid-19 cases in the last 24 hours, according to the latest available data.Mumbai and Delhi are also among the top two cities reporting the highest surge of Omicron cases.Earlier in the day, health minister Rajesh Tope said the rise in the Covid-19 cases in Maharashtra was “alarming”. The state registered 2,172 fresh coronavirus cases on Tuesday. It has reported a total of 167 Omicron cases so far.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-may-log-over-2-000-covid-19-cases-today-warns-aaditya-thackeray-101640775199844.html
29-12-2021||Pune||Milind Ekbote, Kalicharan Maharaj, others booked for making ‘provocative’ speeches in Pune||PUNE The Khadak police registered a case against religious leaders Milind Ekbote of Samast Hindu Aghadi organisation, Kalicharan Maharaj and others for allegedly making provocative speeches during a public program held in the city last week.Ekbote is one of the main accused in the Bhima-Koregaon riots case and had been arrested by the rural police on charges of instigation and delivering inflammatory speech ahead of the bicentennial celebrations of the battle of Bhima Koregaon.Policeman Somnath Dhage said, an FIR was registered on Tuesday at Khadak police station.The police took cognizance of the inflammatory video clip which went viral on the social media and initiated criminal probe into the act.According to police, a program was organised at Natubaug maidan on December 19 to mark the occasion of the killing of Afzal Khan by Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj. The accused made statements that could incite people and hurt religious sentiments.The other accused booked in the case have been identified as Mohanrao Shete, Deepak Nagpure, Nandkishore Ekbote and Digendra Kumar.Kalicharan Maharaj had been booked by the Madhya Pradesh Police recently for his provocative and derogatory utterances against Mahatma Gandhi. A section of the state legislators had demanded that he be booked under relevant sections of carrying out anti-national activities. The city police in their complaint stated that the accused had made derogatory utterances regarding Christian and Muslim communities.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/milind-ekbote-kalicharan-maharaj-others-booked-for-making-provocative-speeches-in-pune-101640776703957.html
29-12-2021||Dehradun||Top cop seeks report after officer is seen laughing with hate speech accused||DEHRADUN: Uttarakhand police chief Ashok Kumar on Wednesday sought a report from Haridwar’s senior police superintendent over a video that purportedly showed an investigation officer sharing a laugh with the Dharam Sansad hate speech accused following a comment that he will be on their side. The video went viral days after calls for violence against Muslims and Christians at the religious gathering provoked outrage.In the video, a woman seer can be seen handing a complaint to Rakendra Kathait, the station house officer of Haridwar Kotwali police station, where a case has been registered against the hate speech accused. “After this complaint, a message should be sent that you are unbiased. You are an administrative officer adhering to the Constitution. You are equal for all. This is our expectation from you,” the woman is purportedly heard telling Kathait. Yati Narsinghanand, who has also been accused of hate speech, is then purportedly heard saying the officer will be on their side. The officer is then seen nodding before they share a laugh.Kumar said based on the report, they will take further departmental action, if required. “The police are taking all the necessary action in the case in which a probe is already on. We have already named three accused in the case and will add more as the probe unfolds.”Also Read: Hindus doing politics in name of Hindutva are fake: Gehlot on Dharma Sansad rowKathait said he had gone to serve notices to two of the three named accused in the case, Jitendra Narayan Tyagi (formerly Waseem Rizwi) and Sadhvi Annapurna, on Tuesday when the video was shot. “One has to understand the whole context of the scenario. I had gone there to serve them notices... stating that they have to present themselves before police or court as and when required. While I was there, Tyagi and other seers present said they were coming to the police station to lodge their complaint, to which I said I wouldn’t be available there in the next few hours, and hence, received their complaint there.”He denied sharing a laugh with the accused, saying, “I was present there with many other people. Anybody can say anything, but that does not mean I am associated with them. The question would arise if I would have replied to their statement. As police officers, we work as per the Constitution and in an unbiased manner.”Police couldn’t serve the notice to the third named accused, Dharamdas Maharaj, as he was not at his residence in Haridwar on Tuesday.In a week since the case was registered, police have only served notices to the named accused who are yet to inform them about the appearance. Once their statements are recorded, police will take a call whether they should be arrested.
29-12-2021||Lucknow||Radio City Exclusively Launched at Kanpur and Lucknow Metro Stations||India’s leading radio station has achieved yet another milestone, by signing a broadcast deal with the Uttar Pradesh Metro Rail Corporation (UPMRC). As per the agreement, Radio City will now be exclusively broadcast in the Kanpur Metro. Having signed a similar agreement with the Lucknow Metro, commuters across 30 stations in Lucknow and Kanpur can now enjoy Radio City’s unique entertainment offerings. Radio City has always been known for its innovation & trendsetting approach in the Radio Broadcast Industry. With the launch of the Kanpur Metro by Hon. Prime Minister Narendra Modi on 28th December, listeners onboard can now exclusively tune in to the radio channel from 6 am till 10 pm every day. Starting the launch with a bang, Radio City surprised its listeners in the Kanpur Metro, by organizing a meet & greet with the city’s favourite Radio City RJs, who were live at the Motijheel station from 7 am to 9 pm. Kickstarting the first day of the broadcast, India's digital sensation RJ Raghav was also a part of the celebration, with a special segment at 7 am. The programme was followed by a series of live shows by the station’s superhit RJs Karishma, Hari and Akhil.“Radio City has always been India’s and Uttar Pradesh’s favourite music destination. We have continually strived to stay connected to our millions of listeners through the most innovative collaborations and offerings.All our special partnerships are always aimed at giving our audience something new, as we bring the people of U.P the hottest shows and most pathbreaking programmes. We are glad to partner with the UPMRC, to offer the best entertainment and refreshing content to commuters onboard the Kanpur Metro. This association is a giant step forward in our continuous endeavour to provide our Uttar Pradeshaudience with the most holistic entertainment experiences,” said Kartik Kalla, Chief Creative Officer, Radio City India.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/radio-city-exclusively-launched-at-kanpur-and-lucknow-metro-stations-101640772696901.html
29-12-2021||Mumbai||Money laundering case: ED files supplementary charge sheet against Deshmukh||MUMBAI: The Enforcement Directorate (ED) on Wednesday filed a 7,000-page supplementary charge sheet in a money laundering case against former Maharashtra home minister Anil Deshmukh. The charge sheet was submitted to a special court and also names Deshmukh’s sons, an ED official said. It also refers to desirable postings of police officers on Deshmukh’s instructions.The agency registered the case against Deshmukh on May 11 on the basis of the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI)’s First Information Report (FIR) against him. The FIR was filed after former Mumbai Police Commissioner Param Bir Singh wrote a letter to chief minister Udhav Thackeray on March 20 alleging Deshmukh ordered dismissed Mumbai police assistant inspector Sachin Vaze to collect ₹100 crore from hoteliers. A lawyer cited the allegation and moved the Bombay high court, which ordered the CBI to initially conduct a preliminary inquiry. The CBI later on April 21 booked Deshmukh under the Prevention of Corruption Act. ED arrested him on November 2 after questioning him for over 12 hours. Deshmukh is currently in judicial custody.The ED has alleged on Deshmukh’s instructions, Vaze called a meeting of bar owners from Mumbai and demanded a monthly amount of ₹3 lakh from each of them. It searched Deshmukh’s premises and arrested his aides Sanjeev Palande and Kundan Shinde on June 25. The agency filed its first charge sheet on August 23, saying Vaze allegedly collected ₹4.7 crore from bar owners between December 2020 and February 2021 at Deshmukh’s behest. It alleged Vaze handed over the money to Shinde and subsequently a part of the amount was routed to a charitable trust through shell companies.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/money-laundering-case-ed-files-supplementary-charge-sheet-against-deshmukh-101640772983213.html
29-12-2021||Kolkata||Mamata mulls shutting schools, colleges as Covid-19 cases rise in Bengal||West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee said on Wednesday schools and colleges in the state could be closed for some time amid rising number of Covid-19 cases.Banerjee held an administrative meeting wherein she asked officials to review the current pandemic situation in the state and also begin identifying containment zones in Kolkata given the high rate of infection in the city.Educational institutions reopened in the state on November 16 after a gap of about 20 months.Bengal on Tuesday witnessed a massive jump in single-day Covid-19 cases having logged 752 infections, up from 439 reported on the preceding day. Of the 752 fresh cases, Kolkata accounted for 382 infections, followed by North 24 Parganas with 102. On Monday, Kolkata recorded 204 infections, the state health bulletin data showed.The cumulative Covid-19 tally of Bengal has climbed to 16,31,817 with the active case count standing at 7,457.Bengal is also one of the top 10 worst-hit states in India by the Omicron variant of Covid-19. The eastern state has so far reported 11 cases, of which, only one patient has recovered so far, according to the data shared by the Union ministry of health and family welfare.Also Read | 781 Omicron cases in India, Delhi tops with 238 cases; major jump in daily tallyEarlier this month, the Mamata-led government extended restrictions related to Covid-19 in the state till January 15 after the first Omicron case was confirmed in a seven-year-old boy. The restrictions include night curfew between 11pm and 5am. However, the same has been relaxed between December 24 and January 1 in view of Christmas and New Year celebrations.(With inputs from PTI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/mamata-mulls-shutting-schools-colleges-as-covid-19-cases-rise-in-bengal-101640767920407.html
29-12-2021||Mumbai||NCP MP Supriya Sule, husband test positive for Covid-19, have no symptoms yet||Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) chief Sharad Pawar's daughter Supriya Sule and her husband Sadanand Sule have tested positive for Covid-19, the Maharashtra leader wrote on Twitter. The NCP MP further urged everyone who came in contact with themselves to get tested, adding that the couple did not have any symptoms so far.“Sadanand and I, both of us have tested positive for COVID - 19. We do not have any symptoms. Requesting everyone who has come in contact with us to get themselves tested. Take Care,” she wrote.It is not known yet if the duo have been infected by the new Omicron strain.On Tuesday, Maharashtra education minister Varsha Gaikwad tested positive for the coronavirus disease with mild symptoms. This is the second time she has been infected by the viral infection.The minister had been attending the ongoing winter session of the state legislature that ends today.Earlier in the day, health minister Rajesh Tope said the rise in the Covid-19 cases in Maharashtra was “alarming”.According to last available data, the state registered 2,172 fresh coronavirus cases on Tuesday. It has also reported 167 cases of the Omicron variant of which 91 patients have recovered.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/ncp-mp-supriya-sule-husband-test-positive-for-covid-19-have-no-symptoms-yet-101640769358851.html
29-12-2021||Mumbai||167 Omicron cases in Maharashtra so far, none serious: Health minister Tope||Maharashtra health minister Rajesh Tope said on Wednesday that the state has reported 167 cases of the Omicron variant of Covid-19 so far, adding that none of the patients is in a serious condition.“Of these, (167 cases) 19 patients have been discharged. None of these patients was in serious condition,” Tope was quoted as saying by news agency ANI.As Maharashtra is the second worst-hit state from Omicron across India, Tope also said the state government has to think about imposing restrictions to control crowds in public transport, wedding ceremonies etc.He expressed concerns over increasing number of active cases in Maharashtra, which are well over 15,000.“Worrying to see the number of active cases increasing in the state. Mumbai's positivity rate is at 4%. If this goes above 5%, then we will have to think about imposing restrictions,” Tope told ANI and added that chief minister Uddhav Thackeray will hold a meeting with the state's Covid task force soon.Worrying to see the number of active cases increasing in the State. Mumbai's positivity rate is at 4%. If this goes above 5%, then we will have to think about imposing restrictions. CM will hold a meeting COVID Task Force soon: Maharashtra Health Minister Rajesh TopeMaharashtra's daily tally of Covid-19 crossed the 2,000-mark on Tuesday while 22 more patients died and Mumbai too recorded a high of 1,333 new cases. However, no case of Omicron was recorded across the state on Tuesday.Last Friday, the three-party Maha Vikas Aghadi government issued fresh guidelines to control the spike in Covid-19 cases in Maharashtra, which included a night curfew from 9pm till 6am and restrictions on the number of people taking part in public functions and other curbs.And a day later after releasing the guidelines, Rajesh Tope said on Saturday that the government will only impose a lockdown across Maharashtra if the demand for medical oxygen touches 800 metric tons per day. He said that the government does not want people to face more restrictions and urged them to follow all Covid-related protocols.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/167-omicron-cases-in-maharashtra-so-far-none-serious-health-minister-tope-101640763765129.html
29-12-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai local train services delayed on Central Line. Details here||Local train services between Kalyan and Kasara railway stations on the Central Railway line in Mumbai are running with a delay on Wednesday. A freight train engine has reported failure near the Khardi railway station, which has caused disruption of services on the line.The train rake was moved away from railway tracks with the help of another engine at 1.15pm but services are operating with a delay of up to 10 minutes.More details are awaited.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumba-local-train-services-delayed-on-central-line-details-here-101640765033824.html
29-12-2021||Pune||Kalicharan Maharaj booked in Pune for making provocative speech||PUNE: Kalicharan Maharaj, who has been in the news for praising Nathuram Godse for killing Mahatma Gandhi, and Samast Hindu Aghadi’s Milind Ekbote have been booked in Pune for allegedly making provocative speeches during a public event in the city last week.Police said the event was organised on December 19 to celebrate the killing of Bijapur Sultanate general Afzal Khan by Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj in the 17th century. They added the accused made derogatory comments against Christians and Muslim communities that could incite people and hurt religious sentiments.The other accused booked in the case have been identified as Mohanrao Shete, Deepak Nagpure, Nandkishore Ekbote, and Digendra Kumar.Somnath Dhage, a police officer, said the case was registered on Tuesday at Pune’s Khadak police station as police took cognisance of an inflammatory video clip of the event which went viral on social media. A probe into the matter has been initiated.Maharashtra deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar on Monday said the state government would seek information about Maharaj’s derogatory comments against Gandhi in Raipur. He added exemplary action will be initiated if any wrongdoing was found.Ekbote is one of the accused in the Bhima-Koregaon violence near Pune in 2018. He was arrested on charges of delivering an inflammatory speech ahead of the bicentennial celebrations of the Battle of Bhima-Koregaon.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/kalicharan-maharaj-booked-in-pune-for-making-provocative-speech-101640764341425.html
29-12-2021||Delhi||Delhi’s air quality improves marginally, enters ‘poor’ zone||NEW DELHI: Delhi’s air quality improved marginally and entered the “poor” zone on Wednesday morning amid shallow fog as overcast weather was expected in the Capital. According to the Central Pollution Control Board, the hourly Air Quality Index (AQI) at 7am was 288. On Tuesday, the average 24-hour AQI was 305 - in the lower end of the “very poor” category. PM 2.5 was the dominant pollutant in the air.An AQI between zero and 50 is considered “good”, 51 and 100 “satisfactory”, 101 and 200 “moderate”, 201 and 300 “poor”, 301 and 400 “very poor”, and 401 and 500 “severe”.The air quality was expected to improve. On Tuesday, the System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting And Research said the AQI improved to the “poor” category due to an increase in mixing layer height to 1.5km on Monday that ventilated the near-surface pollutants. Light rain due to western disturbance was likely to improve the AQI further to the upper end of the “moderate” or lower end of the “poor” category. “On 30th (December), 31st (December), and 1st (January), winds are likely to be low reducing ventilation of pollutants, and AQI is expected to be within the ‘poor’ category. From 2nd (January) onwards improvement in AQI is likely due to relatively high winds.”The India Meteorological Department (IMD) said the minimum temperature on Wednesday was likely to be 8 degrees Celsius and the maximum 20 degrees Celsius. On Tuesday, the minimum temperature was 9.4 degrees Celsius, two notches above normal, and the maximum 18 degrees Celsius, three degrees below normal. IMD said shallow to moderate fog was expected over the next seven days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhis-air-quality-improves-marginally-enters-poor-zone-101640746399616.html
29-12-2021||Chandigarh||When it comes to national security realism should trump jingoism: Manish Tewari||Senior Congress leader and Sri Anandpur Sahib MP Manish Tewari on Tuesday said it was high-time that Indian political parties analysed national security with realism and humility as opposed to jingoism. Tewari, who was speaking at the launch of his latest book, ‘10 Flashpoints; 20 Years National Security Situations That Impacted India’, at Sector 10, Chandigarh, said, “Over the past 70 years, we have not been able to leave behind the legacy of Partition, and resolve the unsettled borders with China. In order to prosper, we need a political modus operandi with both Pakistan and China, which is not simply a tactical response to an evolving and unfolding situation, as has been seen so far.” Asserting that India will never be able to get to the level it deserves until South Asia was integrated, he said, “Our national security expenditure, and our threats do not match. We either need to dramatically increase the national security expenditure or reduce the threats to our national security.”‘China has 5:1 power differential’ On Chinese influence in South Asia, Tewari said, “In the last 30 years, China has worked on its defense, and infrastructure so it has a power differential of 5:1 with all its neighbours. The Chinese have settled most of their territorial disputes, barring India, and some maritime disputes. It is this power differential, which has given China the confidence to settle disputes on its terms. We need 30 years of peace to match up to China.” The former union minister, who specializes in strategic affairs, said, “The humiliation of 1971 has become a part of Pakistan’s institutional psyche. India should have given a more kinetic response to Pakistan in the aftermath of the 26/11 Mumbai terror attacks as the incident was not a flash in the pan. Many bombings had taken place across the country.”Govt obfuscating standoff in Ladakh: Tewari The MP also slammed the government for trying brush the 20-month standoff with China in Ladakh under the carpet. “The government is trying to obfuscate matters. Not a single debate has been held in the Parliament, nor has the government said anything about the expenditure incurred,” said Tewari.Asked about India’s no first-use policy pertaining to nuclear weapons, Tewari said the policy has been instrumental in establishing India’s reputation as a responsible global power, and that there was no saying what happened when a push came to a shove. “A first-use policy is anyway an extremely expensive position to assume. We don’t have the wherewithal to implement it as the risk of an accident is large.” Tewari, who had moved a private member’s bill seeking to bring intelligence agencies under a regulatory framework, said, “The collection, coalition, analysis, analysis of intelligence takes place in silos, which weakens security. A similar debate was seen after the blast at the Ludhiana court complex, where intelligence agencies said they had warned the authorities.” Saying that “Tewari hits his boundaries with a straight bat”, former chief of army staff general VP Malik mostly agreed with Tewari’s assessment of the national security situation. “India was no way close to China in terms of “comprehensive power”, which not only means military power, but economic power as well. We need to analyse intelligence correctly so as to be able to check security threats.” The book was introduced to the audience by former IAS officer Vivek Atrey who said that India had to go beyond ‘retail politics’ to think in the long-term when it comes to foreign policy.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/when-it-comes-to-national-security-realism-should-trump-jingoism-manish-tewari-101640728502875.html
29-12-2021||Chandigarh||In vote for change, 29 fresh faces make it to Chandigarh MC House||In a vote for change, it was not only the debutant Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) which pipped the old guards, Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and Congress, but in case of individual candidates too, voters overwhelmingly opted for fresh and young faces.In the Chandigarh municipal corporation elections, the results of which were announced on Monday, 29 out of the 35 councillors who made it to the House are first-timers.With the city voting for fresh faces, BJP was the biggest loser. Of the 16 councillors, their relatives or former councillors, only six made it through, including wives of two councillors. Even of these six, two could barely cross victory mark. Maheshinder Singh Sidhu won by only 11 votes from ward 2 and Dalip Sharma from ward 3 by 90 votes. All these BJP’s old faces lost to first-timers.For the Congress, putting up a dozen councillors and ex-councillors, only three – Harpreet Kaur Babla, Gurbax Rawat and Gurcharanjit Singh Kala, could win. Both of its sitting councillors Satish Kainth and Ravinder Kaur Gujral lost. Party’s former mayor Kamlesh lost to the first-timer Neha, who became the youngest winner at 25 years.The AAP fighting its first elections, except for one old face, all of its candidates were the first-timers, and 14 of them won. It lone old timer, Chander Mukhi Sharma, lost from ward 13.It’s a young candidate’s electionMore than half of those elected to the MC house are below 40 years of age.Of the total 35 winners, 19 candidates are below the age of 40, nine are between 41-50 years, five are between 50-60 years, and only one is above 60 years.Of the total 203 candidates in the fray, 95 were aged between 21 and 40 years and 108 were above it.The young guns have turned into giant killers in the election. Running a dhaba in Sector 22, 31-year-old Daman Preet Singh from AAP defeated the outgoing mayor Ravi Kant Sharma. “Nobody gave me a chance but we continued to work hard. I have been doing social work during the pandemic period, and the farmers’ agitation finally pushed me into politics. I am here to make a positive difference in people’s lives and governance system,” said Singh.Another young candidate, though already having a taste of electoral politics, the second youngest candidate, Sachin Galav, 27, also put down a seasoned player in the city politics, AAP campaign chairman, Chander Mukhi Sharma. The former Panjab University student union president Galav, said, “University politics and mainstream elections are different. It was likely for the first time I was contesting an election.” Galav wants to bring facilities to his ward, comprising PU and PGIMER, which MC generally overlooks.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/in-vote-for-change-29-fresh-faces-make-it-to-chandigarh-mc-house-101640728202882.html
29-12-2021||Chandigarh||For third week in row, Chandigarh tricity area’s Covid tally remains above 100||The tricity’s weekly Covid-19 tally remained above the 100-mark for the third consecutive week with as many as 146 fresh infections reported in the week ending on December 26. This is the highest weekly tally seen in the city since the second wave started receding in July.In Chandigarh, the effect of increased public gatherings and complacency among people in following Covid-19 protocols during election campaigning, festivities and marriage events, can easily be seen with the city contributing majority of the cases this week too.The case tally of Chandigarh and Mohali didn’t see any major change this week. Chandigarh reported 71 cases this week, against 70 last week while in Mohali, the case tally was 34, against 35 last week. Panchkula, however, saw an uptick from 31 cases last week to 41 cases this week.On December 25 alone, the tricity reported 36 cases which was the highest single-day tally in five-months.In the previous week, tricity had reported 136 cases, besides three fatalities. The fatalities dropped to two this week, with Mohali and Chandigarh reporting one death each.During the peak of the pandemic in May, the tricity had recorded 46,245 cases and 790 deaths in just a month. The curve started flattening thereon though the weekly cases kept fluctuating. After the second wave ended, the weekly tally had never crossed the 100-mark until the week ending on November 29, which saw 109 infections. In the following week, the tally saw a 15% dip with 93 cases, but then spiked again to 126 in the week ending on December 12 and was followed by 136 cases in the subsequent week.Omicron an added worry, say expertsDr Suman Singh, director, health services, Chandigarh, said, “We had election rallies in Chandigarh this month, besides festivities and marriage events. These crowded gatherings are now inviting a surge in cases. Since Chandigarh has already reported three Omicron cases, with one of the patients still infected, it is an additional cause of worry for us. People must follow basic rules like wearing a mask, maintaining social distance and getting vaccinated against the disease as it will control the transmission.” Dr Girish Dogra, district immunisation officer, Mohali, said, “In the wake of Omicron cases being reported in the tricity and across the country, we have started sending all Covid-19 positive samples for genome sequencing at National Centre for Disease Control (NCDC), Delhi, to check for the variant of concern. Since Omicron is believed to be more transmissible than other variants, it can be a cause of concern.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/for-third-week-in-row-chandigarh-tricity-area-s-covid-tally-remains-above-100-101640728022843.html
29-12-2021||Chandigarh||Two arrested for vandalising Jesus Christ’s statue in Ambala||Ambala police on Tuesday arrested two men in connection with the vandalism of the Jesus statue at a British-era church in cantonment area on the intervening night of December 25 and 26. Those arrested are Sandeep Kumar, 27, and Ravinder Kumar , 28, who were reportedly under the influence of alcohol when they damaged the statue and other decoration items at the church, said superintendent of police (SP) Jashandeep Singh Randhawa at a press conference, adding that they are the residents of Mahesh Nagar’s Vashisht Nagar. “Sandeep is an engineer and worked with private firms before joining the public works department (B&R) as a regular employee. Ravinder is a Class 12 pass out and worked for several private pharmaceutical firms. Both are first-time offenders,” he added. Not a hate crime, but probing all angles: SPOn being asked about the reason behind the act, the SP denied any hatred angle and said, “As per our initial probe, this is not an incident of hate crime, but we will investigate their possible links with any socio-political organisation or their ideological biases. We will recreate the entire crime scene to determine the cause.”Three police teams under an SIT headed by ASP Pooja Dabla were working on the case. The accused were arrested by CIA-1 team of the police headed by in-charge Sandeep Kumar. Soon after the incident, the cybercrime and mobile forensic teams had swung into action and CCTV footage of the church and other nearby spots were taken into custody to identify their movement, the SP said. The accused will be produced in a court on Wednesday and their remand will be sought, the police said. The suspects will face charges of defiling place of worship with intent to insult the religion, house-trespass and others.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/two-arrested-for-jesus-christ-s-statue-vandalism-in-ambala-101640727603223.html
29-12-2021||Chandigarh||Junior tennis tournament: Top seed Deepam enters quarter-finals||Top seed Deepam Malik outplayed Anhad Singh Oberai 6-0,6-2 in the boys’ U-16 pre-quarterfinal tie during the AITA National Ranking Championship for U-16 being held at the Roots Tennis Academy in Zirakpur on Tuesday. In other boys’ U-16 pre-quarterfinal matches, third seed Sidhant Sharma ousted Agnivesh Bhardwaj 6-1, 6-0 while fourth seed Ekamjeet Singh Cheema prevailed over Gurbaaz Singh 6-1, 6-4 to surge ahead in the quarter-finals.MORE NEWS IN BRIEFSSub-junior badminton tournament to start in Panchkula from Jan 2As many as 880 boys and 550 girls will compete in the Yonex Sunrise 1st Ashwani Gupta Memorial Sub Junior (U-15, U-17) Badminton Ranking Tournament at the Multi-Purpose Hall, Tau Devi Lal Sports Complex, Sector 3, Panchkula, and Sports Complex in Sector 38, Chandigarh, from January 2 to 9. The tournament will be organised by Sports Promotion Society, Panchkula, under the aegis of Badminton Federation of India. Haryana Vidhan Sabha speaker Gian Chand Gupta, while addressing a press conference regarding the event, said that Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal will inaugurate the tournament.Scooter containing ₹1.25 lakh stolen Two motorcycle-borne people stole an Activa scooter containing ₹1.25 lakh from a wholesale confectionary dealer in Manimajra on Tuesday. The complaint, Ved Parkash, a resident of Sector 32, told the police that he had parked his scooter outside his house after collecting payment of ₹1.25 lakh from a client. He added that he had left the keys in the vehicle. After some time, he saw two people on a bike ride away with the scooter. 27 days on, FIR lodged for theft of scooterAs many as 27 days after the complaint was filed, the Chandigarh Police have registered an FIR in the theft of a scooter from outside an educational institute in sector 17, Chandigarh. The complaint, A female resident of Sector 15, said that an unknown person stole her scooter bearing Chandigarh registration number from outside Touch Stone Education Centre in Sector 17, Chandigarh, on December 1.Husband among 4 booked for abetment to suicide after woman ends lifeThe husband, brother-in-law, sister-in-law and nephew of a 22-year-old woman from Chota Trilokpur village have been booked for abetment to suicide after she hung herself on Saturday. In 2019, woman had married the main accused, identified as Salim. For one year, there were no issues, but marital problems developed after that. A case has been registered based on the statement of the victim’s father, Amrik of Dera Bassi. He told the police that after his daughter hung herself, her husband and in-laws tried to take her body to a private hospital to hide the incident.Mohali F&CC approves devp works worth ₹19 crThe finance and contracts committee (F&CC) of the Mohali municipal corporation (MC) on Tuesday approved work orders worth ₹19 crore and passed estimates of development works worth ₹2 crore. The meeting of the committee was being chaired by mayor Amarjit Singh Jeeti Sidhu and senior deputy mayor Amrik Singh Somal, deputy mayor Kuljit Singh Bedi, municipal commissioner Kamal Garg were also present on the occasion.Vicky Middukhera murder: Victim’s brother writes to Shah seeking justiceSeeking speedy justice and security for his family, the brother of murdered Youth Akali Dal leader Vikramjeet Singh alias Vicky Middukhera has written to Union home minister Amit Shah. Middukhera was killed in broad daylight on August 7, 2021, in Sector 71, Mohali, by armed assailants. Four shooters came to eliminate Middukhera, out of which two executed the killings whereas other two were waiting in a car nearby. Out of all the four, two shooters were of Bhola-Latth gang and other two were of Bambiha gang run by Gaurav Padial, but police are yet to arrest the main accused.Two booked for selling property attached with EDA resident of Sector 41, Chandigarh, lost ₹87 lakh to two brothers , who tried to sell him a house already attached by Enforcement Directorate. In his complaint, Anil Kumar, said that he entered into an agreement with Vinit and Nishant Goyal, both residents of Sector 27, to buy 50% share in a house in Sector 20, Chandigarh. He said that the deal was finalised for total sale consideration of Rs. 1.20 crore. Both Vinit and Nishant told him that the property is free from all encumbrances. On their assurance, the complainant paid ₹87 lakh in instalments to them between April 4, 2017 to June 15, 2017, but accused kept delaying handing over the papers of the property. Later, the complainant came to know that the property was already attached by the Enforcement Director, Chandigarh, much before the deal was finalised.Woman, mother booked for abetment to suicide Mohali A 30-year-old Kurali man commited suicide after alleged harassment by his wife and mother-in-law, both residents of Hoshiarpur. The deceased’s father said his son got married in May 2018. He said that his son’s wife had got a false complaint lodged against him and had even shifted to her mother’s house. The suicide came to light after deceased did not answer his father’s phone on Monday and when his neighbour went to check, they found his body hanging from the ceiling fan. He was rushed to civil hospital, where he was declared brought dead. A case of abetment to suicide has been registered. P’kula biker mowed down by truckMohali A motorcyclist was killed after being hit by a truck at Panchkula light point near Zirakpur. The deceased has been identified as Yogesh, a resident of Sector 28, Panchkula. In his complaint, the deceased’s brother-in-law, Aval Luharia of Bathinda, told the police that that Yogesh was on his way to pick him up from Zirakpur at about 9pm, when a truck coming from behind hit him. His head was crushed under the rear tyre of the truck. He was rushed to Dhakoli hospital, where he was declared brought dead. The police, on basis of the truck’s registration number, are now trying to trace the accused. A case has been registered.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/junior-tennis-tournament-top-seed-deepam-enters-quarterfinals-101640727422773.html
29-12-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: Former chief justice NK Sodhi succumbs to Covid||Former chief justice of Kerala and Karnataka high courts NK Sodhi lost his battle to Covid-19 on Tuesday afternoon. Family members said that after he contracted the virus, he developed acute respiratory distress syndrome and remained admitted at the intensive care unit (ICU) of Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER) for nearly a month. The cremation took place on Tuesday. Born on November 29, 1943, he obtained his law degree from Panjab University (PU). He was appointed the judge of Punjab and Haryana high court in 1991 and elevated as chief justice in 2004 in Kerala and retired as chief justice of Karnataka high court in November 2005. After retirement, he served as the presiding officer of securities appellate tribunal, Mumbai, for six years. He was also instrumental in formulation of regulations on prohibition of insider trading for Security and Exchange Board of India. 26 fresh Covid infections in cityThe tricity logged 26 new cases of Covid-19 on Tuesday even as former chief justice NK Sodhi’s death due to the virus took Chandigarh’s death tally to 1,079.The UT has seen three Covid deaths this month. Of the fresh infections, 15 were reported from Chandigarh, six from Panchkula, and five from Mohali. The tricity’s active case count remained above the 200-mark, with Chandigarh having 100 infected persons, and Mohali and Panchkula having 55 persons each.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-former-chief-justice-nk-sodhi-succumbs-to-covid-101640727182668.html
29-12-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab assembly elections: Former mayor Kulwant Singh declared AAP candidate from Mohali||A day after he joined the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP), former mayor and real estate baron Kulwant Singh was declared the party’s candidate from Mohali for the upcoming Punjab assembly elections. As soon as his candidature was announced, Kulwant convened a meeting of local AAP leaders and workers at his office in Sector 79, Mohali, urging them to work for the victory of the party in the upcoming elections. He said a huge change is on the horizon for Punjab politics. Kulwant Singh’s political journey started around two decades ago when he contested the 1995 municipal committee elections from ward 21 and won. He served as a senior vice-president in the Mohali municipal corporation from 1995 to 2000 and was the president till 2005. In 2014, he unsuccessfully contested the Lok Sabha elections from Fatehgarh Saheb. In 2015, he managed to become the first mayor of the municipal corporation house, with the support of Congress. Later, in 2017, he joined Shiromani Akali Dal. He was expelled from SAD on January 16 this year for “anti-party activities” as he decided to contest the 2020 civic polls independently. Kulwant Singh is the owner of Janta Land Promoters Limited (JLPL) and has an annual turnover of ₹1,200 crore. In 1988, he developed a colony in Janta Nagar, Kharar, the first residential enclave to be approved in Punjab.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-assembly-elections-former-mayor-kulwant-singh-declared-aap-candidate-from-mohali-101640726942722.html
29-12-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: Club bouncer, two others arrested for stealing guest’s gold chain||A bouncer working at a club, his brother and a jeweller have been arrested for allegedly stealing and selling the gold chain of a guest who had come to the club for Christmas celebrations. The accused have been identified as Dilshad, 25, of Mohali, who works as a bouncer in the Ministry of Bar Exchange (MOBE), Elante Mall, Phase 1, Industrial Area Chandigarh, his brother Sultan, 27, who works as a commission agent with a jeweller in Sector 22, and Ravinder, 29, the owner of Dhani Ram Jewellers in Sector-23. Complainant, Neha Kumar, a resident of Phase 3B2 of Mohali, said that on December 25, she had visited MOBE to attend a Christmas party organised by her office. Till about 10.10pm, the gold chain was on her neck, but later when she went to the ground floor of the mall, she realised her chain was missing. She suspected the hand of club employees and informed the police. Police said that during the party, Neha had fallen asleep on a chair and the bouncer, Dilshad, took the opportunity to remove the chain from her neck. Footage of closed-circuit television camera installed inside the club clearly showed the accused in the act, said police. Dilshad later handed over the chain to his brother, Sultan, who further sold it to Ravinder, who purchased the chain without proper verification. Police said Dilshad, who had been working as a bouncer in MOBE for the last one year, had told Sultan that he had found the chain lying on the floor of the club. A case under Section 380 (theft) of the Indian Penal Code was registered at the Industrial Area police station in Chandigarh. The accused was before the court on Tuesday and sent to judicial custody.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-club-bouncer-two-others-arrested-for-stealing-guest-s-gold-chain-101640726762640.html
29-12-2021||Chandigarh||From January 1, no entry into Chandigarh educational institutes without full vaccination||From January 1, 2022, people who are yet to receive both doses of Covid-19 vaccine will not be allowed to enter educational or coaching institutes in Chandigarh.In an order issued on Tuesday, the UT administration stated, “Educational institutions, including coaching centres and tuitions, will only allow fully vaccinated adults or those who are not due for the second dose to enter their vicinity. The rules will be applicable to both teaching and non-teaching staff, besides other visitors.”“All violators will be made to pay a fine of ₹500. Action will also be taken against institutions if they allow the violators to enter,” said UT health secretary Yashpal Garg. These orders are an extension of UT administration’s previous orders which said that from January 1, those who are not fully vaccinated will lose access to public spaces with large gatherings, such as vegetable and grain markets, public transport, parks, religious places, malls, shopping complexes, markets and other similar places.Also, all government, board and corporation offices in Chandigarh should only allow fully vaccinated adults or those who are not due for second dose, as per health protocol. Government and private banks, hotels, bars, restaurants, malls, shopping complexes, cinema halls, and gym and fitness centres should follow the same guidelines, the UT had stated in its order.In case any adult is found with overdue second dose, he or she will be fined ₹500. Non-payment of the fine will attract proceedings under Section 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant) of the Indian Penal Code. Earlier on December 3, district education officer (DEO) Prabhjot Kaur had made it mandatory for both teaching and non-teaching staff in schools to have taken at least one vaccine dose to enter the premises. However, as per sources, even at that time, over 99% of the staff, except for those with legitimate medical reasons, had been vaccinated.Keep vaccination proof handyThe UT administration said people should download their vaccination certificates from the CoWIN portal and keep its hard or soft copies, handy to present it to officials when needed. Those without smart-phones can show the text message regarding the vaccination status. The status on Aarogya Setu app will also be considered.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/from-january-1-no-entry-into-chandigarh-educational-institutes-without-full-vaccination-101640726522586.html
29-12-2021||Chandigarh||Ambala to get north India’s first National Centre for Disease Control branch||A branch of the National Centre for Disease Control (NCDC) is set to come up in Ambala’s Naggal village.The centre , which is expected to come up at a cost of ₹14 crore, will be spread across 4.11 acre and be the first of its kind in North India. It will have a state-of-the-art lab, equipped with modern equipment.Haryana health minister Anil Vij said that viruses like Nipah, Zika, Rabies, Zoonotic, Covid-19 and Hepatitis will be tested here and along with innovative tests and experiments.“Earlier, samples were sent from Ambala to NCDC, Delhi, and other branches for testing, but now there will be a modern facility here. The land in Naggal was selected for the establishment of the NCDC branch, which was under the municipal council. A ground plus three-storey building will be constructed,” the minister said.Several other initiatives like promotion of integrated disease surveillance, studies on environmental change and quality and capacity building will also be carried out. It will also be developed as a training centre for epidemiologists, microbiologists and laboratory technicians, officials said.Dr Shikha Vardhan, joint director of the National Centre for Disease Control, Delhi, said that the construction of the branch will be completed in three phases. Construction of the building will be completed in two phases, after which the lab will be established, she added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ambala-to-get-north-india-s-first-national-centre-for-disease-control-branch-101640726402489.html
29-12-2021||Chandigarh||Police recover 7,200 litres illegal alcohol||Ludhiana The police on Tuesday seized 7,200 liters of alcohol during a raid at an illegal manufacturing unit in Bagian village.The accused, identified as Ravinder Singh, Prem Singh, Sukhdev Singh and Gurpreet Singh, managed to flee from the spot.Inspector Prem Singh, in-charge of the special branch, said the authorities had received a tip off about a group involved in illegal processing and smuggling alcohol.He added that the police raided the unit on December 27 following the tip off, recovering four drums containing 7,200 litres of alcohol.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/police-recover-7-200-litres-illegal-alcohol-101640726106113.html
29-12-2021||Chandigarh||Three new Covid cases surface in Ludhiana||Ludhiana Three fresh cases of Covid were reported on Wednesday. Among the new infections, two were registered at the OPD, while one person with influenza-like symptoms also tested positive. According to the reports shared by district administration, the number of active cases in the district has increased to 46 of which, 45 are in home isolation and one is undergoing treatment at a private hospital. The total number of cases of Covid reported so far in the district is 87,766 of which 85,603 have recovered. The death toll stands at 2,117 in the district.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/three-new-covid-cases-surface-in-dist-101640726104876.html
29-12-2021||Chandigarh||Truck driver booked in Sidhwan Canal road hit-and-run case||The police on Tuesday registered a case against Manoj Kumar, the truck driver involved in an accident on the Sidhwan Canal road that led to the death of a Tarn Taran resident.Detailing the incident, Gurvinder Singh, the deceased Gurpinder Singh’s brother, said the speeding truck hit their Bolero pick-up vehicle near the Tibba bridge on the night of December 26.Singh, his brother and four others -- Dalbir Singh, Gurveer Singh, Veerpal Singh, Harinder Pal Singh -- were returning home from Fatehgarh Sahib Gurdwara.According to the available information, Gurpinder Singh died on the spot, while the others sustained serious injuries. They are being treated at the Christian Medical College and Hospital (CMC&H).Sabar Khan, the case’s investigating officer, said the driver is a resident of Hanumangarh in Rajasthan. A manhunt for his arrest is underway.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/truck-driver-booked-in-sidhwan-canal-road-hit-and-run-case-101640726102979.html
29-12-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana: Farmers ends 8-day sit-in at railway tracks||Ludhiana The eight-day-long “rail roko” protest by the Kisan Mazdoor Sangarsh Committee (KMSC) ended on Tuesday, with protestors ending their sit-in at around 5 pm.The farmers had been protesting at railway tracks in Amritsar, Jalandhar, Tanda, Tarn Taran and Ferozepur since December 20, demanding a loan-waiver and relief from paying outstanding electricity bills and allotment of plots by the state government.“We are now planning to ply the trains till Amritsar as soon as possible which were earlier short terminated or originated at Ludhiana junction due to the protest by the farmers,” said Seema Sharma, divisional rail manager of the Ferozepur division.“Since many factors need to be considered and ensured before plying the trains, the exact time of their resuming them cannot be revealed for now,” she added. Railways incur huge lossesNotably, the railway authorities in the city have refunded approximately ₹12.4 lakh to passengers following multiple cancellations of trains.According to the officials, ₹1.50 lakh was returned to the ticket counter passengers on Monday. A sum of ₹2.1 lakh was refunded on Tuesday, ₹2.2 lakh on Wednesday, ₹1.3 lakh on Thursday, ₹1.6 lakh on Friday, ₹2 lakh on Saturday and ₹1.5 lakh.The authorities, meanwhile, refunded ₹1.69 crore to 32,100 passengers due to cancellation of 567 trains in the Ferozepur division.Speaking of the losses, an official at the Ludhiana railway station said, “This is merely a small part of the loss incurred by the railways due to track blockage by farmers as most of the passengers now book their tickets online.”Officials added that the online refunds account for even bigger losses. Normality to be resorted soonA railway official said with the protest coming to an end, normality should be restored in the coming days.“Railways ferry passengers at much more economical fare than any other public transport. People had to pay higher prices to reach their destinations in absence of trains.” the official said.Passengers had faced the brunt of the protest as Northern Railways had repeatedly requested the lot to check the status of the trains before heading to the station for the complete eight-day duration.
29-12-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana: PCTE students bag gold third time in a row||Ludhiana A total of 10 students from Punjab College of Technical Education (PCTE) faculty of journalism and mass communication have made it among the 15 students in BAJMC merit list,declared by IK Gujral Punjab Technical University after six years.The students have bagged gold medals for third time in a row after the course was started by PCTE in 2016.Preity Sabharwal of batch 2016-2019, Surekha Mahajan of batch 2017-2020 and Sanskriti Verma of batch 2018-2021 bagged the first position with 8.5, 8.57 and 8.97 CGPA, respectively. While Kalpana from batch 2017-2020 clinched 2nd position with 8.45 CGPA, Nagah Salem Sasi Baskal of batch 2016-2019 with 7.99 CGPA bagged the 3rd position. Sukhpreet Singh of batch 2016-2019, Manav Bansal of batch 2017-2020 and Laveena Sharma of batch 2018-2021 bagged the 4th position with 7.93, 7.99, 8.3 CGPA, respectively. Anupreet Sapra with CGPA 7.97 and Simran Kaur with CGPA 7.91, both of batch 2017-2020, secured the 5th and 6th positions, respectively.Preity Sabharwal said, “Not only following a rigorous study routine but with a sincere devotion towards attending classes and actively participating in them did wonders for me.”Director general of PCTE KNS Kang congratulated the students.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-pcte-students-bag-gold-third-time-in-a-row-101640725987348.html
29-12-2021||Chandigarh||UGC pay scales row: University, college teachers protest at Congress Bhawan in Chandigarh||Amid the ongoing protest over non-implementation of revised UGC pay scales as per the seventh pay commission by the Punjab government, a number of university and college teachers assembled at Congress Bhawan in Sector 15 on Tuesday , to invite Punjab Pradesh Congress Committee (PPCC) president Navjot Singh Sidhu to accompany them to the All India Congress Committee headquarter in New Delhi on December 31.“Since the Punjab government failed to fulfil long-pending demands of university and college teachers despite repeated assurances, the teachers are left with no option but to meet Rahul Gandhi and remind him of his promise to implement the 7th UGC pay scales in 2018, made to general secretaries of AIFUCTO and PFUCTO,” said Panjab University Teachers Association (PUTA) in its statement on Tuesday.General secretary of PPCC, Joginder Pal Dhingra, met the teachers on behalf of Sidhu and assured that their issues will be resolved. Dhingra then accompanied the delegation of PUTA to meet deputy CM OP Soni, to apprise him of the issues. “Soni patiently listened to the teachers and assured that he will try his best to take up the matter during the cabinet meeting scheduled on Tuesday,” said PUTA.The “Delhi Chalo” call has been given by the Punjab Federation of University and College Teachers Organisations (PFUCTO), to press for their demands. Teachers in Universities and colleges in Punjab and Chandigarh had started an indefinite protest from December 1 and have announced the boycott of all academic activities.PU non-teaching staff continues protestThe non-teaching staff at Panjab University (PU) held a protest for the second consecutive day on Tuesday, over delay in compassionate appointments and non-implementation of 6th pay commission.The members gathered outside the office of vice-chancellor Raj Kumar, where they raised slogans against the varsity administration. The staff members started the protest after a PU panel on Monday deferred around 10 cases of compassionate appointments. Panjab University Non-Teaching Employees Federation (PUNTEF) said that due to “delay tactics” of the university authorities, the executive body of the PUNTEF has announced an indefinite agitation of all the non-teaching staff of the university.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ugcpay-scales-row-university-college-teachers-protest-at-congress-bhawan-inchandigarh-101640725926049.html
29-12-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana schools to hold special vaccination camps for teenagers||To cover maximum children in the age group of 15-18 years once the vaccination drive for teenagers begins in January, it has been decided that special camps would be organised in schools. In addition, children can visit any other camp and get themselves vaccinated there as well.With the Centre announcing that teenagers between 15 and 18 years of age will be vaccinated January 3 onwards, the Ludhiana administration held a meeting with school principals to prepare for the forthcoming drives.Councillor Mamta Ashu, along with ADC Jagraon-cum-nodal officer (vaccination) Dr Nayan Jassal, on Tuesday convened the meeting at Bachat Bhawan in district administrative complex wherein principals of schools, mainly from Ludhiana (west) constituency, took part. The meeting was attended by principals of several prominent schools.Mamta urged the parents to encourage their children to get themselves vaccinated. “To ensure that our children stay safe, parents should get their children vaccinated at the earliest,” she added. Dr Jassal said that people, who are yet to receive their second dose of vaccination, should also come forward and get themselves fully vaccinated. She said, “A large number of residents have not yet received their second jab of Covid-19 vaccine. Sadly, such people believe that Covid has become a thing of the past, which is not the case.” She added, “Everyone knows that with the prevalence new variant Omicron, people should not take the virus lightly and get fully vaccinated by visiting their nearest centre.”Dr Jassal said that some people still have misconceptions that Covid vaccine is not safe and that is why, they are not coming forward.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-schools-to-hold-special-vaccination-camps-for-teenagers-101640725752676.html
29-12-2021||Chandigarh||Faculties constituency of PU senate: Chancellor’s office seeks comments of elected candidates over petitions||With the elected candidates of the constituency of faculties yet to be notified, the office of the Vice-President of India, who is the chancellor of Panjab University (PU), has sought comments of the elected candidates from the constituency over the allegations raised by the petitioners.The election of the constituency of faculties was held on September 1, after which some petitions were filed raising questions on the election of the candidates. Six members are elected to the PU senate from this constituency.The Vice-President’s secretariat in a letter to a candidate who was elected from the constituency has stated that several petitions were filed against the process of senate election held on September 1, 2021, for electing six ordinary fellows from the constituency of faculties. The letter also revealed that the petitioners have prayed for setting aside the election result of the ‘faculties constituency’ and for ordering fresh elections after revising and updating members/voters as per rules and regulations.“It has been felt appropriate to seek comments of the elected candidates from the faculties constituency on the allegations raised by the petitioners,” reads the letter sent by the Vice President’s secretariat.All six members who were elected from this constituency are from the Goyal group and are former senators. They are Navdeep Goyal, Ashok Goyal, Rajesh Gill, Keshav Malhotra, Ronki Ram and Anu Chatrath. The election for the constituency was held in September.The chancellor’s office has requested the members to provide comments on the allegations raised by the petitioners by January 7, 2022, and failing which a decision will be taken on the given petitions as per the material available at hand.So far, 71 members, including 36 nominated by the chancellor, have been notified. Six members elected from the constituency of faculties and eight members elected from the constituency of the teachers of affiliated arts colleges are yet to be notified.Meanwhile, the Panjab University Teachers Association (PUTA) has also opposed the scheduled senate meeting on January 8 and has demanded that a fresh notification should be issued which will include all elected members. Elected teachers of arts college constituency seek notification to senateThe three candidates elected to the Panjab University senate from the constituency of teachers of affiliated arts colleges, have written to the Vice-President of India, who is the chancellor of Panjab University (PU), seeking their notification.However, it is also learnt that some other candidates of the constituency have also submitted their representations to the varsity chancellor. Even though a senate meeting is scheduled on January 8, the elected candidates from two constituencies have not been notified yet. The notification for candidates elected from the arts college constituency is reportedly pending over the issue of one of the elected candidates being declared ineligible last month by PU vice-chancellor Raj Kumar.Meanwhile, the Punjab and Chandigarh College Teachers’ Union (PCCTU) has also written to the Vice-President of India, seeking the notification of the elected members from the constituency. They said that as the elected members have not been notified yet, the representation of all stakeholders is incomplete.So far, 71 members, including 36 nominated by the chancellor, have been notified. The senate is a 91-member apex governing body of the university. While 36 members are nominated by the Vice-President of India, two are nominated from the Punjab assembly, six are ex-officio members and the remaining 47 are elected from the eight constituencies.
29-12-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab polls: MP brother a contender for Qadian, MLA Fateh Bajwa may shift base from segment||Qadian MLA Fateh Jung Singh Bajwa, who joined the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) on Tuesday, is most likely to shift his base from the assembly segment from where his elder brother and Rajya Sabha MP Partap Singh Bajwa has already staked claim on Congress ticket for the upcoming elections. Even as Fateh has said that his new party will decide where he will fight the election from, sources close to him claimed that he is inclined to contest from Batala or Gurdaspur, which have a considerable number of Hindu voters. The MLA has made it clear that he will support the candidate of the BJP or its alliance partner from the segment he currently represents. Whether he will oppose his brother in the constituency, he said, “I will not oppose anybody. I will certainly support my party’s candidate.”On the constituency of his preference, he said, “I will follow whatever the party decides. I will contest from any constituency in Gurdaspur district.”Partap Bajwa on Tuesday held several election meetings in Qadian. Punjab Congress president Navjot Singh Sidhu during a recent rally had batted for Fateh Jung as party candidate from the constituency, claiming he would win from the constituency with a huge margin.“I had not planned to join the BJP in advance. I was feeling suffocated in the Congress as 4-5 party leaders want to become CM. The party has become direction-less is faction0-ridden,” Fateh Jung said.The BJP is the only national party which thinks of development and maintaining law and order in Punjab, added the MLA. A leader close to the Qadian MLA said he is likely to contest from Batala as he has a stranglehold there and the Congress is facing factionalism in the segment. Sidhu has announced former minister Ashwani Sekhri as party candidate from Batala, ostensibly snubbing minister Tript Rajinder Singh Bajwa who has been focusing on the seat for a few years.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-polls-mp-brother-a-contender-for-qadian-mla-fateh-bajwa-may-shift-base-from-segment-101640725684070.html
29-12-2021||Chandigarh||‘Horse-trading threat’: AAP decides to put its Chandigarh councillors under surveillance||The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) has put its councillors under watch after the alleged offer made by the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) to its councillors. Party’s Punjab co-incharge, Raghav Chadha, while addressing the media here on Tuesday, said, “With the BJP indulging in horse-trading, we have decided to install secret cameras at each councillor’s house, and have also told them to put all calls on record. So if the BJP tries to contact them again, we will have evidence.” He said the party will make camera footage and call recordings public if any BJP leader approaches or contacts AAP councillors. Stating that there is currently no plan to take their councillors outside the city, another senior leader of AAP later, said, “We have instructed the councillors to immediately call other AAP workers if the BJP leaders try to contact them. We will immediately rush there.” Meanwhile, Chandigarh state Congress president, Subhash Chawla, Chawla, said, “Today’s AAP press conference is clear indication that they are in panic mode. Installing cameras in their councillors’ house and recording their phone calls, only shows the party fears its councillors can switch sides and that the party high command doesn’t trust its own councillors.” BJP state president Arun Sood, said, “It is a party of opportunistics, so they have to employ such surveillance methods in fear of losing their councillors.” Kejriwal road-show on Dec 30 AAP’s supremo and Delhi CM Arvind Kejriwal is scheduled to take out a road show on December 30 in the city, from Aroma Hotel, Sector 22 to the Sector 23 light point, a senior party leader said. The decision on the party’s mayoral candidate is also likely to be discussed on his one-day trip to the city. Stating that AAP will make the new Chandigarh mayor, Chadha said, “On his visit to the city, Arvind Kejriwal will meet the newly elected councillors. He will congratulate the winning candidates and also motivate candidates who lost. During the visit, the issue of mayoral candidate will also be discussed.” On the MC result day, Delhi deputy CM Manish Sisodia had met the winning candidates.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/horsetrading-threat-aap-decides-to-put-its-chandigarh-councillors-under-surveillance-101640725562625.html
29-12-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana: GADVASU hosts industry interface to promote entrepreneurial skills on ornamental fisheries||College of Fisheries (COF), Guru Angad Dev Veterinary & Animal Sciences University (GADVASU), organised a student-industry interface on “Ornamental fisheries – present status, challenges and future prospects in Punjab.” The interface was organised in collaboration with IDP Cell under ICAR’s National Agricultural Higher Education Project (NAHEP) to promote entrepreneurship skills among fishery graduates.The platform brought together different stakeholders, including ornamental fish traders, state fisheries officers of Punjab and students. Atul K Jain, fisheries scientist turned entrepreneur and director of Ornamental Fisheries Training and Research Institute (OFTRI), Udaipur (Rajasthan) was the guest speaker of the event. He apprised the students and traders of the hidden business opportunities in ornamental fisheries and the need to revolutionise the ornamental fish industry in inland states by decreasing reliance on the coastal states for ornamental fish and aquarium accessories. Vice-chancellor Inderjeet Singh and SPS Ghuman, PI-IDP cell and dean, COVS, GADVASU also stressed the utter need for these kinds of interaction sessions for exposure of potential budding entrepreneurs to novel ideas and technologies.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-gadvasu-hosts-industry-interface-to-promote-entrepreneurial-skills-on-ornamental-fisheries-101640725505500.html
29-12-2021||Chandigarh||Now, underprivileged getting preference over elite in Punjab: CM Channi||Punjab chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi on Tuesday said the ongoing political phase is a ‘yug parivartan’ (era of transformation) in the state as the poor and underprivileged are getting preference over the elites.Addressing a rally in Mansa district’s Sardulgarh assembly segment, Channi said the Congress would win the forthcoming assembly elections due to its inclusive welfare moves.He said the election promises made by the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) such as cheaper electricity have actually been implemented by the Congress government in Punjab. “In a short span of time, my government introduced several welfare plans. I understand the problems faced by the common man. People should understand the hidden agenda of AAP as its Delhi-centric leadership wants to control the political power in Punjab. This is unacceptable and the voters will reject them,” said the CM.The AAP, Channi said, has lost its electoral sheen in Punjab due to its policies that go against the state’s interests.“Most of the legislators and parliamentarians elected on AAP tickets have quit the party. The Congress believes in empowering the marginalised sections and inclusive development,” he claimed.On the occasion, CM announces sub teshsil status for Bheniwal village, upgrading of the government hospital at Sardulgarh and a Government Middle School at Juhnir to the senior secondary level.He also announced an additional development grant of 2 crore for the Sardulgarh segment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/now-underprivileged-getting-preference-over-elite-in-punjab-cm-channi-101640725503107.html
29-12-2021||Chandigarh||Table Tennis tournament: Neha, Gurmeet bag titles on concluding day||On the concluding day of fourth Manna Singh Memorial OpenTable Tennis Tournament, Neha Singh of Chandigarh won the double titles in women and U-17 girl’s single categories, respectively; while Gurmeet from Kangra ( HP) bagged the mens’ single title on Tuesday.In the women’s singles match, Neha Singh outclassed her namesake Neha from Jalandhar by 11-7, 11-9, 8-11, 11-6. In the U-17 girl’s single match, Neha defeated Pelf from Chandigarh by 11-9, 11-13, 11-5,11-7. However In the U-19 girl’s single , Pelf outplayed Neha Singh by 11-9, 8-11, 11-6, 11-9.In a tough fight, Gurmeet outwitted Roopam from Jalandhar by 11-7,11-9,8-11,9-11 and 15-13 to clinch the men’s single title.The U-17 boy’s single title went to Sagar from SAS Nagar who defeated Parardh PuriI by 11-8,11-7,11-7. In the U-19 Boy’s single finals, Pritish Sood from Chandigarh beat Harkirat from Chandigarh by 11-7, 11-9, 11-13, 11-9 to clinch the title. Ludhiana mayor Balkar Singh Sandhu gave away the prizes to the winners.Other resultsIn women’s veterans single 39 plus final clash, Anu Sharma beat Pormila by 3-0. Manav beat Hira Goswami by 3-2 in men’s veterans single 39 plus final clash. Hira Goswami defeated Vinahy Chopra by 3-1 in men’s veterans single 49 plus final clash. Vinay Chpra outwitted Rajminder Singh by 3-2 in men’s veterans single 59 plus final clash.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/table-tennis-tournament-neha-gurmeet-bag-titles-on-concluding-day-101640725442671.html
29-12-2021||Delhi||Delhiwale: It was all acacia here||The outdoor sound system is playing soft, moody music. It could be Kenny G.Who could have thought that this desolate wilderness in south Delhi would one day be serenaded by a saxophonist’s tunes. That the rocky ridge that used to be littered with weedy bushes and snakes would be tamed with elegant tiles. That the thorny trees would give way to showrooms and cafes.The three shoulder-to-shoulder shopping malls in Vasant Kunj lie amid a vastness that continues to be partly undomesticated. The malls opened only about a decade back. Charanjit Singh, who retired as a professor at Centre of Russian Studies in nearby Jawaharlal Nehru University, was a JNU student from 1969 to 1973. He used to go walking around the area where these malls are now, and in those times, it all used to be an “undulated thorny acacia and scrubland”.You ought to spend a lazy afternoon in the gigantic plaza outside these malls to absorb the change our city is undergoing. This December day, the sky is smog-free because of last night’s rain. A window of sharp, glittering sunshine has opened up, and some shoppers are exploiting it by lounging along the plaza’s seating spaces, speckled along an archipelago of tiny landscaped gardens.With the malls in the back and the trees lining the horizon across the Nelson Mandela Marg, one feels perched on a land of new beginnings. This is the ‘new’ New Delhi. It is like lounging in the brand new Connaught Place when it was set up by the Brits with the clearing of a babool forest all those years ago. Fifty years from today, all these trees here that face the malls might also give way to concrete destinations.Meanwhile, the plaza is a gift for people who are into people-watching. Every person here appears to be as full of stories as any promising OTT series. A couple is sitting next to a man, who is sitting alone. It is difficult to discern who is lonelier — the morosely quiet pair or the single man happily tapping on his phone. Another romantic pair is flaunting their sartorial compatibility — she is in a green leather jacket, he has a green canvas pithu bag. Then there’s the steady procession of consumers popping out of a glass door from the mall directly behind, balancing multiple shopping bags in their arms with as much dexterity as a railway station porter.Soon, the sun begins to fade, and it becomes uncomfortably cooler. Kenny G continues to serenade. A young man in a blue denim mask, white pullover and denim jeans walks past humming Lana Del Rey’s Summertime Sadness. It’s difficult to believe that some years ago this was all acacia here.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhiwale-it-was-all-acacia-here-101640725253871.html
29-12-2021||Chandigarh||How a dongle is proving crucial in Ludhiana bomb blast probe||The dongle recovered from the Ludhiana blast site is proving to be a crucial lead in the probe.Dongle is a small device that is used with a computer, especially to access protected software or the internet. A police official, who is a part of the ongoing investigation, said while everything else kept in the bathroom of the district court complex was destroyed, the dongle incidentally got stuck inside the body of accused. It was during the evening of the explosion in the district court complex that the forensic team visited the spot and found the rubble scattered all over the place. In the debris, the police also found the body parts of the bomber, who was later identified as Gagandeep Singh. During the forensic examination, the probing team found a badly damaged dongle that was stuck inside a body part. “The dongle, tough damaged, was in good condition from which a SIM card was retrieved that further led to the establishment of the identity of bomber Gagandeep and eventually led to the arrest of his Germany-based handler Jaswinder Singh Multani,” said the official privy to the investigation. Gagandeep visited Amritsar 10 days prior the blastIt has further come to the fore that nearly 10 days before the explosion, accused Gagandeep Singh had visited Amritsar.Sources in the department said that the visit was meant to collect explosives. It has not yet been clear when the explosives were handed over to him. The police are also trying to find out where Gagandeep was trained to handle and assemble the sophisticated explosives. During the investigation, it also come to light that on the day of explosion (December 23), the bomber had spoken with the woman constable over the phone. The police are currently probing how Gagandeep travelled from Khanna to Ludhiana. While his white colour Honda Activa was recovered from Khanna, it has not yet ascertained how he reached Ludhiana court complex. It is being suspected that his handlers had ferried him and handed over the explosives enroute Ludhiana.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/how-a-dongle-is-proving-crucial-in-ludhiana-bomb-blast-probe-101640725382372.html
29-12-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: Speeding challans up by 49% this year||Speeding remained the most common traffic violation in 2021, as per data compiled by the UT traffic police. Till December 26, 64,119 challans have been issued for the offence, a nearly two-fold increase from 2020, when 32,497 were issued. The number is also the highest since 2014.For speeding, traffic violation information slip (TVIS) or e-challans are issued. This was started in May 2020, when the traffic police first acquired three automatic number plate recognition (ANPR) systems, which clicked pictures of the speeding vehicle and detected their speed. Due to this, the number of speeding challans in 2020 saw a sharp spike compared to 8,814 in 2019.Member of the National Road Safety Council, Kamaljeet Soi said, “The uptick indicates that the cops are vigilant, which should be appreciated. Speeding is the leading cause of road fatalities, so offenders must be penalised.”Senior superintendent of police (SSP, traffic) Manisha Choudhary, added, “ We have gotten simplified speed limits notified for the benefit of road users and the speed signs have been installed on all major roads. We have been regularly conducting road safety programmes in educational institutes and for the general public. We are also in the process of procuring three night-vision speed radars.”Following some confusion regarding the speed limit, the transport department had released a notification regarding this in April. Currently, on dual carriageways (roads with dividers), the speed limit is 60km/h for light motor vehicles, 50km/h for medium and heavy passenger vehicles and commercial vehicles and 45 km/h for two-wheelers and three-wheelers. On single carriageway roads (roads without dividers), the speed limit is 50km/h for light motor vehicles, 40km/h for medium and heavy passenger vehicles and commercial vehicles and 40 km/h for two-wheelers and three-wheelers. On Sector roads the speed limit is 40km/h for all vehicles.In total 2,29764 challans were issued this year, higher than 1,76,619 in 2020, which was expected as in view of the Covid lockdown in 2020. Also, the data indicates that residents have now become more mindful of not stopping on the zebra crossing at red light intersections. In 2021, 38,095 challans were issued for this, against 55,255 in 2020. People have also started wearing helmets more often now and 13,955 challans were issued to two-wheeler riders for not wearing a helmet in 2021, against 19,739 in 2020 and a whopping 68,622 in 2019.List of major traffic offencesIn total, 2,29,764 challans for traffic violations were issued in 2021 till December 26.Speeding: 64,119Zebra crossing infractions:38,095Jumping red light: 2021- 4,090Underage driving: 29Wrong parking: 19,963Helmetless riding: 13,955Driving without seat-belt: 14,685||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-speeding-challans-up-by-49-this-year-101640725209031.html
29-12-2021||Chandigarh||Badals’ role similar to that of Dyer for firing at Sikh protesters: Punjab CM Channi||Punjab chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi on Tuesday alleged that the role of the Badal family in the Behbal Kalan police firing episode was similar to that of General Dyer (Col Reginald Dyer) who was responsible for the Jallianwala Bagh massacre in 1919. Addressing a rally in Sunam, Channi said, “It was General Dyer who ordered firing at Jallianwala Bagh. I want to ask the Akalis if Dyer was guilty of the Jallianwala massacre, why are they not responsible for police firing at Sikh men protesting against the sacrilege of Guru Granth Sahib at Bargari?” Bats for Daman Thind Bajwa from SunamAddressing the gathering, the CM, along with cabinet ministers Vijay Inder Singla and Amrinder Singh Raja Warring, appealed to the people to vote for party’s Daman Thind Bajwa from the Sunam segment in the assembly polls. Bajwa had lost in the 2017 assembly polls. “Only a few people are courageous like Daman. She wants to work for the area. If a girl picks a flag, we all should welcome it. I appeal to all of you to support her. I know her ideas and spirit,” added Channi.The CM announced upgrade of government health institutions in Sunam and Longowal and said that the government has also sanctioned ₹7 crore for the upgrade of roads in the constituency. He also handed over cheques of development grants to panchayats under the ‘Punjab Nirman Program’.
29-12-2021||Chandigarh||Bir Devinder Singh quits SAD (Sanyukt)||Former of Punjab vidhan sabha deputy speaker Bir Devinder Singh on Tuesday resigned from Shiromani Akali Dal (Sanyukt). Writing to party president SS Dhindsa, the former SAD (Sanyukt) senior vice-president, accused Dhindsa and Ranjit Singh Brahmpura of betraying the interest of the panth and Punjab for their vested interest. He alleged that Brahmpura had already reached an “unprincipled understanding” with the Badal family for an assembly seat for his son Ravinder Singh Brahmpura. Brahmpura has re-joined SAD and Dhindsa has entered an alliance with the BJP and Captain Amarinder Singh led Punjab Lok congress (PLC). “With the recent developments, the nexus has been exposed,” he wrote in the resignation letter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/bir-devinder-singh-quits-sad-sanyukt-101640725202542.html
29-12-2021||Chandigarh||Explainer: How a mayor will be elected in hung Chandigarh MC House||Elections for the post of mayor are held every year in the five-year term of a municipal corporation House. In the first and fourth year, the post is reserved for a woman councillor. Secret ballot is employed for voting. A simple majority of the present and voting is required by the winning candidate. In a three-cornered race, which is the case now, Section 38 of the Punjab MC Act 1976 as extended to Chandigarh, detailing the procedure of mayoral election, states, “If there are more than two candidates, and at the first ballot no candidate obtains more votes than the aggregate votes obtained by the other candidates, the candidate who has obtained the smallest number of votes shall be excluded from the election.”It will be followed by another round of voting in the House for the remaining candidates. The candidates obtaining the smallest number of votes at each ballot being excluded from the election, until one candidate obtains more votes than the remaining candidate or than the aggregate votes of the remaining candidates as the case may be,” states the Act.In case of a tie, draw of lots will decide the winner.In the present MC House, in case of full attendance - 36 (35 councillor plus one MP vote), a winning candidate would require 19 votes.AAP requires additional 5 votes to its tally of 14, BJP with 12 seats (plus 1 MP vote) needs 6 and Congress 11.
29-12-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana: Drug peddler nabbed with 985g heroin||A team of special task force (STF), Ludhiana Range, arrested a drug peddler posing as VIP and recovered 985g heroin from his possession. The team has also impounded a Swift Dzire car on which a blue beacon was installed. It has come to light that the accused drug peddler had invested money into e-rickshaws and multiplied the amount by renting out the vehicles. The accused was identified as Raj Kumar alias Raju, 35, of Preet Nagar mohalla near Shivpuri. He is a taxi driver and was involved in drug trade for a long time. Inspector Harbans Singh, in-charge, Ludhiana Range STF, said the accused was nabbed from a naka on Sakhewal Road following a tip- off that he was ferrying drugs in his car and using blue beacon and a siren to give an impression that it was a VIP vehicle.On frisking, the STF team recovered 985g heroin, an electronic weighing machine and empty pouches from his possession. A case under sections 21 and 21(C) of the NDPS Act was registered against the accused at the STF police station in Mohali. The Ludhiana STF in-charge said that during questioning, the accused told the investigating officer that he was earlier supplying poppy husk but for the past two years, he stepped into smuggling of heroin. Raj also informed the STF that he had purchased a number of e-rickshaws from the drug money and further given them on rent. “Raj had brought the heroin from Bareilly in Uttar Pradesh,” the inspector said. He added that the accused will be produced in a court and his remand will be sought for further questioning as important information is expected to be extracted from him.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-drug-peddler-nabbed-with-985g-heroin-101640725082447.html
29-12-2021||Chandigarh||Ranjit Singh Brahmpura is SAD candidate from Khadoor Sahib||Ahead of the upcoming Punjab polls, Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) president Sukhbir Singh Badal on Tuesday announced Ranjit Singh Brahmpura as the party’s candidate from the Khadoor Sahib assembly constituency. So far, SAD has announced 93 candidates for the 97 assembly seats in its share as per the pre-poll alliance with the Mayawati-led Bahujan Samaj party (BSP). BSP will contest on 20 of the 117 seats in the state legislative assembly. The party is yet to nominate a candidate from Lambi, Mohali, Baba Bakala, and Amritsar (East). Brahmpura, a former Lok Sabha MP, rejoined the party last week with his supporters. He had resigned from the party three years ago and has formed SAD (Taksali), which he later merged with Rajya Sabha MP Sukhev Singh Dhindsa’s faction to form SAD (Sanyukt). Badal, who was in Dinanagar, also announced the promotion of party leader Bhai Manjit Singh to the post of senior vice-president.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ranjit-singh-brahmpura-is-sad-candidate-from-khadoor-sahib-101640724962338.html
29-12-2021||Chandigarh||Two more Congress MLAs from Punjab join BJP ahead of assembly polls||In a jolt to the Punjab Congress, two of its sitting MLAs — Fateh Jung Singh Bajwa from Qadian and Balwinder Singh Laddi from Shri Hargobindpur — joined the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) in New Delhi on Tuesday. This is the second setback for the state’s ruling Congress in the last one week as three of its MLAs joined the saffron party recently. Last week, former minister and four-time party MLA Rana Gurmeet Sodhi had joined the saffron fold. Fateh Jung, a first-time MLA, is younger brother of Rajya Sabha MP and former Punjab Congress president Partap Singh Bajwa. Laddi too is a first-time legislator. Both Fateh Jung and Laddi joined the BJP in the presence of the party’s Punjab election in-charge and Union minister Gajendra Singh Shekhawat. Three more MLAs from Punjab are likely to join the BJP in the coming days as the party high command has cleared their names, it is learnt. Interestingly, Punjab Congress president Navjot Singh Sidhu had strongly backed the candidature of Fateh Jung and Laddi at rallies early this month. Fateh was upset after his brother Partap Bajwa announced to contest the assembly polls from Qadian that the former represents. Also, former Akali MLA Gurtej Singh Gudhiyana, ex-Sangrur MP Rajdev Khalsa, United Christian Front Punjab president Kamal Bakshi and Nihal Singh Wala civic body member Jagdeep Singh Dhaliwal also joined the party. Ex-cricketer Dinesh Mongia inducted in saffron fold Former Team India cricketer Dinesh Mongia, 44, who has family roots in Hoshiarpur district, also joined the BJP. Born and brought up in Chandigarh, Mongia played 59 one-day international (ODI) matches for India and had represented Punjab in the domestic cricket. “I wanted to come into active politics and serve the people of Punjab. To me, the BJP appeared to be the best option because of the leadership abilities of Prime Minister Narendra Modi,” Mongia told HT over phone. 
29-12-2021||Chandigarh||‘Shortage’ of manhole covers sparks ruckus during Ludhiana MC House meet||While councillors from all political parties lauded Ludhiana mayor and MC commissioner during the zero hour of the MC House for their efforts towards the development of the city, the issue of lack of manhole covers divided the House and triggered a ruckus. Councillors from the Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) and the Lok Insaaf Party (LIP) accused MC officials of not supplying manhole covers in their wards, making them “victims” of public fury and embarrassment. SAD leader Sarabjit Singh raised the issue in the House following which he gathered support from a few other councillors, including Harwinder Kaler of the LIP. However, Congress councillor Jai Prakash, who is also the chairperson of the MC purchase committee, countered the allegations claiming that 700 spare covers were lying with the civic body which were supplied to JEs and SDOs timely. Kaler-Mamta face-offHeated arguments ensued between Kaler and Congress councillor Mamta Ashu after the former accused Jai Prakash of getting signatures from the councillors even before supplying the required material. Strongly condemning Kaler, Mamta referred to Jai Prakash as the most honest and senior-most councillor of the Congress in Ludhiana. All councillors of the Congress, along with the mayor, supported him. Strict action recommended against SDOs, JEsCouncillors, during the discussion at the zero hour, blamed JEs and SDOs for not supplying the development and construction materials, including manholes covers, to them despite repeated requests. Taking strict note of it, the mayor asked the senior officials to fix the responsibility of JEs and SDOs to deliver the material in a time-bound manner and also take strict action against them for lackadaisical attitude. “We are spending huge amount of money on the development works and despite availability of the required material, JEs are not supplying them to the councillors in time, which is unacceptable. I will take serious action against them in case of any further negligence,” the mayor said. Congress councillors even called a few JEs and SDOs useless and corrupt. The mayor, meanwhile, directed the zonal commissioners to hold regular meetings with the councillors to resolve petty issues such as manhole covers, streetlights and leakage in pipes. “Such issues should be resolved at zonal levels rather than taking them up with the mayor and commissioner,” Sandhu said. SAD councillor Jaspal Giaspura, who is also the leader of opposition in the MC general House, sought vigilance inquiry against those officials who refused to issue tender to a database company citing its non-eligibility. “The same company got the tender for two consecutive years and around 105 staffers were deputed in the said company. How did it not fulfil the eligibility criteria for the third time? A vigilance investigation is necessary in this case,” he added. Giaspura also accused the road contractors of using poor-quality material in the construction, causing wastage of finances and resources.“Crores can be saved if the roads are built using material of higher quality. Recently, a road worth ₹2 crore was constructed by the committee after availing loans and it got damaged after few days,” he added. Councillor Sukhdev Bawa, while raising serious concerns over contaminated water and foul odour in his ward number 4 due to illegal slaughtering, sought immediate action from MC commissioner Pardeep Kumar Sabharwal. He said the slaughtering is done near temples and government schools in his area, which causes problems for the locals.Sabharwal ordered a probe and directed officials to visit the sites and take the necessary action.
29-12-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana MC House meet: Resolution to avail ₹100-crore loan passed||With the fund-starved Ludhiana civic body struggling to pay for development works, the municipal corporation House on Tuesday passed the much-needed resolution of availing ₹100-crore loan during its meeting held at Guru Nanak Bhawan. The meeting was chaired by mayor Balkar Sandhu and MC commissioner Pardeep Kumar Sabharwal. It was likely the last meeting of the House before the code of conduct in the wake of upcoming Punjab assembly elections comes into force. A total of 43 resolutions were presented in the House out of which, 38 were passed while three were cancelled and committees were formed for two resolutions. While a few days are left for the litmus test for the upcoming elections in the state, the councillors promised development works to the voters which exceeded the budget of the Ludhiana MC. Mayor Sandhu said the halted development works in the city will immediately resume after availing the ₹100-crore loan. He added that the civic body is efficient enough to pay off this loan. Meanwhile, the resolution to revise the civic body’s annual budget by around ₹145 crore in order to facilitate development projects worth ₹261.45 crore was also passed by the House.Earlier, succumbing to the pressure mounted by councillors and MLAs, who were looking to woo voters, the civic body had given its nod to the development works of around ₹261.4 crore even when the state government had approved ₹116.8 crore for projects, including roads, bridges, streets and drainage for the year 2021-22. The House further passed resolutions for giving jobs to the kin of deceased MC employees and naming five roads of the city after the ‘Panj Pyare’. Another resolution for regularisation of contractual employees, including 1,104 sewermen and 2,572 cleaners, was passed in the House without any objection.The resolutions concerning waiver of pending water and sewer charges for the residential buildings with area less than 125 sq yards and fixing ₹50 per month as water tariff for residential buildings above 125 sq yards were passed by the House. This was earlier announced by state government ahead of the elections. However, due to lack of funds for maintenance, resolution to maintain 18 colonies of GLADA was cancelled in the House.With an aim to raise funds, the MC House also approved resolution to sell off MC properties through e-auction, including SCOs in Shaheed Bhagat Singh (SBS) Nagar, shops situated in market below Jagraon bridge, and vacant land near Master Tara Singh college among other sites. Resolution was also approved to set up a PRO branch in MC to apprise the public of the development works and activities of the civic body. Resolution to make building plan must for power connection droppedDue to the mounting pressure by the councillors of the ruling party, the resolution to stop the Punjab State Power Corporation Limited (PSPCL) from issuing power connection in case the owner fails to attach an approved building plan along with the application was excluded from the agenda of the House. The said resolution aimed at curbing the illegal constructions.Councillors tabled around 12 additional resolutions during the meeting, including increasing the salary of the councillors and ensuring electricity connections to houses of 445.68 sq ft (50 gaj). 
29-12-2021||Chandigarh||Horse-trading allegations fly thick and fast as power games begin in hung Chandigarh MC House||A hung house, no anti-defection law and the post of mayor up for grabs – it’s an open season for allegations and counter-allegations, as the three main parties that contested the Chandigarh civic body polls set out to secure the mayor’s chair for themselves. No party got a clear majority, of 18 seats, in the 35-member House, but the AAP emerged the single largest party with 14 seats, the BJP a close second with 12 seats and the Congress secured eight seats. Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) got one seat. With the Chandigarh MP also having one vote in the House, and the incumbent MP, Kirron Kher, owing allegiance to the saffron party, the BJP has 13 votes out of the total 36 votes in a full house. All three parties – AAP, Congress and BJP – have announced that they would put up their candidates for the posts of mayor, senior deputy mayor and deputy mayor.AAP alleges horse-trading by BJP Firing the first shots, only a day after the Chandigarh municipal corporation results were announced, AAP alleged that BJP is indulging in horse-trading.The party’s Punjab co-incharge Raghav Chadha, alleged, “BJP leaders called up and visited three of our 14 councillors. They offered one councillor ₹75 lakh, and ₹50 lakh each to two other councillors; and asked them to join BJP.”Addressing a press conference at the party’s office in Sector 39, Chadha alleged that a local BJP leader, on the directions of a Union cabinet minister, was asking AAP councillors to join BJP.When asked why the party didn’t contact the police, Chadha said, “We decided to first inform the public and then go to the police and election commission on the issue.”Why doesn’t AAP release recordings, asks SoodTerming AAP’s allegations as “lies and baseless”, Chandigarh BJP state president Arun Sood, said, “AAP is making these fraudulent claims because it is itself actively trying to buy councillors from other parties. Where is the proof for such frivolous allegations; nowadays, everybody has recordings in their phones; why doesn’t AAP release those recordings?” He further said, “AAP leaders said they would have an AAP mayor. How they are so sure when they don’t have the requisite numbers in the House. Is it because they are indulging in horse-trading with the money they brought from foreign countries?”Notably, Sood on Monday had said that the BJP will put up its candidate for the mayor’s post and appeal to the people to elect its candidate. “We will not align with anybody or pursue other parties’ councillors. We will only appeal to councillors if they want stable and development-oriented governance, they should opt for BJP candidate.”Chadha, meanwhile, said that AAP was not in negotiations with any councillor of other parties for the election of mayor.Cong attacks both BJP and AAPChandigarh Congress president Subhash Chawla, alleged, “Both the BJP and AAP are trying to buy out each other’s councillors.”Attacking AAP, Chawla, said, “AAP press conference is clear indication that they are in panic mode. Installing cameras at their councillors’ house and recording their phone calls only show the party fears its councillors can switch sides and that the party high command doesn’t trust its own councillors.”Though Chawla admitted that both AAP and BJP leaders contacted the Congress councillors for the mayoral elections, he denied that any offers of posts or money were made to them.
29-12-2021||Chandigarh||Resumption of bus service to Delhi airport: Delhi, Punjab authorities haven’t corresponded in two years||Though Punjab transport minister Amrinder Singh Raja Warring has slammed Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal for disallowing state bus service to Indira Gandhi International (IGI) Airport, there has been no correspondence between the Punjab and Delhi transport authorities since 2019.The Punjab transport authorities had written to Dehli’s transport department on August 31, 2019, requesting them to allow Pepsu Road Transport Corporation (PRTC) buses to pick and drop passengers at the international airport. However, there has been no communication between the two departments since. “PRTC has also not submitted any more representations to its counterpart since 2019. It was only after Raja Warring wrote to Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on October 7 this year that the issue was highlighted,” an official said.In July 2018, the PRTC had started eight luxury air-conditioned buses from Patiala, Ludhiana, Jalandhar, Amritsar and Hoshiarpur to depart from terminal 3 of the Delhi Airport. However, within the month, the Delhi government started issuing fines and banned the entry of these buses beyond the ISBT, citing permit issues. Warring, however, said that despite repeated reminders, the transport department was yet to get a response from Delhi authorities. Meanwhile, PRTC managing director Parneet Kaur Shergill said no fresh representations have been sent as both the departments are corresponding on state level. PRTC authorities have been asked to get tourist permits to carry on with its services to IGI airport. “It is not financially viable for the PRTC to run these buses on tourist permits. PRTC only managed to generate revenue of ₹30 lakh in a month,” an official said.The PRTC buses were charging ₹787 per passenger from Patiala and ₹880 from Ludhiana, while private players, mainly run by high profile politicians,charge exorbitant prices ranging from ₹1,500 to ₹4,000.
29-12-2021||Chandigarh||Hyderpora encounter: Building owner used as human shield by Pakistani militant: SIT||As the J&K government has completed the magisterial probe in the Hyderpora encounter, J&K deputy inspector of general of police, who was heading the special investigative team (SIT), said that the house owner got killed in “cross fire” after being used as a human shield by a foreign militant .The SIT head said both Mudasir Gul and Amir Magrey, who were killed in the encounter, had militant links.On November 15, two militants and two local businessmen, identified as Mohammad Altaf Bhat and Mudasir Gul, who were described by the police as “overground workers” of terror outfits, were killed during the operation in Hyderpora. Police said the terrorists had been hiding inside the shopping complex owned by Bhat. However, families contested the police claims and said that forces killed innocent civilians in a fake encounter.Deputy inspector general of police, central Kashmir, Sujit Kumar, who headed the SIT, said house owner Altaf Bhat was used as a human shield by Pakistani militant Bilal Bhai, who was also killed in the encounter.“The house owner was used as a human shield by Pakistani militant Bilal Bhai. Mudasir Gul was killed by the foreign militant,” said DIG Sujit Kumar who was flanked by J&K director general of police Dilbagh Singh and inspector general of police Vijay Kumar.Giving details of the encounter, the DIG said they have CCTV evidence which showed that Mudasir Gul along with the foreign militant used to travel in his vehicle and foreign militant Bilal used to stay in the chamber of Mudasir along with Amir Magray and used the place as his hideout. “Amir Magray used to travel to Bandipore and Gurez and when police asked him about foreign militants, he didn’t tell the truth.”Kumar said Amir Magray had sent his picture along with pistol to his friend and helped Bilal Bhai in arranging accommodation in Srinagar. “Mudasir Gul was killed by the foreign militant.”Kumar also said that family members of Altaf Bhat, who owned the building, didn’t give satisfactory replies about the tenants in the building.Meanwhile, the J&K government has received the magisterial inquiry report regarding the Hyderpora encounter, however, details have not been revealed. On November 17, JK Lt Governor Manoj Sinha had ordered a probe into the incident after hue and cry.However, the PAGD termed the press briefing of police as a repetition of the old story and cover-up to the incident.“It does not even, slightly give any objective picture of this shocking incident.There is a strong public perception that the civilians killed in the incident were made human shields by the security forces and the latest statement of the police seems to be a concocted cover-up story,” PAGD spokesman Mohammad Yusuf Tarigami said in a statement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/hyderpora-encounter-building-owner-used-as-human-shield-by-pakistani-militant-sit-101640723717422.html
29-12-2021||Chandigarh||PM Narendra Modi did not announce anything big for Himachal: Mukesh Agnihotri||In a stinging attack on Jai Ram Thakur-led BJP regime in Himachal, Leader of Opposition Mukesh Agnihotri on Tuesday said that the so-called double engine government has now become a “troubled engine” government.This troubled engine is now beyond repair and the public would replace it in 2022, said Agnihotri issuing a press statement in Una.He said that like his previous visits, Prime Minister Narendra Modi did not announce anything big for the state.“The government tried every almost every trick like plying the Himachal Road Transportation Corporation to mobilise the crowd for PM’s rally at Mandi, but got nothing in return as the Prime Minister again disappointed the people of the state,” he said.After the BJP’s 4-0 loss in the byelections, Agnihotri claimed that even the Prime Minister has come to know that the party leadership in Himachal is incapable and he couldn’t expect much from them.He alleged that the BJP government in Himachal was dying to showcase the projects, which were already in pipeline as the new investment.“BJP’s ground-breaking has already been done by the public in byelections and it is sure to lose the 2022 assembly polls,” he said.Taking pot-shots at the BJP government, Agnihotri said the PM has aptly said that there was a model of governance which delays the project.“It is true. There has been a delay under the current regime in setting up the 69 national highways announced by the Central government, delay in the airport, in the disbursement of compensation for land acquisition, for giving benefits to the employees and delay in giving jobs to unemployed,” he said.Agnihotri alleged that the PM did not answer any questions but forced people to listen to him.He alleged that the BJP-led Centre and the state have only burdened the people with rising inflation, unemployment and wrong policies. “It seems that PM was here to amuse the people with his blandishments,” he said. “We have always welcomed him in Himachal for being the PM, but the Opposition also reserves the right to ask as to what Himachal has got from his visit,” he said.He alleged that the government spent from the exchequer for PM’s rally but at the venue, BJP flags were put up.“The PM said that Congress’s model of governance was that of delay but we want to tell him that whatever Himachal has achieved in terms of development today is due to successive Congress governments,” he said.He said if the state government had done good work in four years, the result in the byelections would not have been 4-0.Agnihotri claimed that BJP’s base in Himachal was shrinking and people will overthrow this government in the next assembly elections.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/pm-narendra-modi-did-not-announce-anything-big-for-himachal-mukesh-agnihotri-101640723711569.html
29-12-2021||Chandigarh||Gulmarg coldest in Kashmir at -9.4°C; improvement in night temperature in Srinagar city||Gulmarg was the coldest place in Kashmir as mercury plunged to - 9.4 °C.After fresh snowfall in the upper parts on Sunday, the Valley is again under the grip of the cold wave. However, Srinagar city recorded an improvement in night temperature from the last couple of days due to the overcast sky.The MeT office has predicted no major snowfall till the end of this month as the weather system or winds blowing from the Mediterranean, which bring most of the precipitation in Kashmir, have subsided.Tourist resorts of Pahalgam and Gulmarg received four to six inches of snow. However, Gulmarg recorded another cold night with mercury going down to -9.4 °C.Jammu registered 7.7 °C, Leh in Ladakh region observed -15.4 °C while Dras which is the second coldest place in the world registered -17.6 °C.Chilai Kalan, Kashmir’s harshest 40-day winter period started on December 2.Kashmir’s winter pans out in three stages starting with Chillai Kalan which brings most of the snowfall and sub-zero temperatures, followed by 20 more days from February 1 which are less intense (called Chillai Khurd) and then lastly 10 days of mild cold (Chille Bache).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/gulmarg-coldest-in-kashmir-at-9-4-c-improvement-in-night-temperature-in-srinagar-city-101640723710152.html
29-12-2021||Chandigarh||Hurriyat blames Union government for demographic changes in Jammu and Kashmir||The Hurriyat Conference on Tuesday sought help from the international community and blamed the Centre for enforcing demographic changes in the Muslim majority Jammu and Kashmir.A Hurriyat Conference statement came in reaction to the real estate summit that was held in Jammu on Monday and was attended by J&K Lt Governor Manoj Sinha, Hardeep Singh Puri, Union housing and urban affairs minister and Union MoS Jitendra Singh.In the summit according to a government statement, top leaders of India’s real estate sector came together and signed 39 MoUs worth ₹18,300 crore for investments in residential, commercial, infrastructure and film sectors.During the summit, J&K governor Manoj Sinha said the next ‘real estate summit’ will be held in Srinagar on May 21 and 22, 2022.Hardeep Singh Puri said the real estate, is the second largest employer in the country, will create innumerable opportunities for economic growth in J&K. “The natural endowments in the UT of J&K and resilience of its people are second to none in the world which now need to be translated into economic development, prosperity and ease of living,” he said.The Hurriyat Conference strongly reacted to the summit. “The Government of India wants to change the demographic character of Muslim majority J&K and disempower its residents through such diktats and measures in order to scuttle the final resolution of the long-standing international political dispute of Kashmir in accordance with the will and aspirations of its people as promised by the international community, based on principles of justice and international law,” said Hurriyat in a statement. “Since August 2019, in succession one after other authoritarian laws and diktats are being implemented in J&K towards this end and to facilitate the electoral prospects of the ruling party in India as J&K has become its favourite whipping boy. Simultaneously, the ruling dispensation is pursuing the divide and rule policy by dividing the population of J&K on the basis of religions, regions, ethnicities and political interests to fracture political aspirations and voices,” the Hurriyat statement said.Mainstream political leaders have also raised concern for putting the land of J&K on “sale” in the name of real estate investment summit۔“Once again, the true intentions of the government are brought to the fore. While offering to secure the land, jobs, domicile laws and identity of the people of Ladakh and J&K is being put up for sale. People of Jammu should be aware, “investors” will buy land in Jammu long before Kashmir,” tweeted NC vice-president Omar Abdullah.Former J&K chief minister and PDP president Mehbooba Mufti termed the summit “sale of the resources of J&K”.“J&Ks special status was illegally revoked to dehumanise, dispossess and disempower the only Muslim majority state in India. The GOIs brazen loot and sale of our resources shows that the sole motive is to annihilate our identity and change the demography (sic),” said Mehbooba Mufti in a tweet.The Apni Party, which is considered close to the BJP, also called this summit an “endeavour for undermining the domicile law”.Apni Party president Syed Mohammad Altaf Bukhari on Monday in a statement said efforts that aim at holistic development and job creation in Jammu and Kashmir are welcome but not at the cost of domicile laws that safeguard land and employment rights of its permanent residents.He said, “Our party will always welcome any efforts that will foster progress and prosperity in Jammu and Kashmir. But at the same time, we are pledged to resist any plans that will do away with the exclusive rights of the people on their land and jobs.”He said the way term “permanent resident of the state” has been omitted from the J&K Development Act, was totally unacceptable to the people of Jammu and Kashmir.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/hurriyat-blames-union-government-for-demographic-changes-in-jammu-and-kashmir-101640723702460.html
29-12-2021||Chandigarh||Himachal agriculture minister exhorts scientists to develop integrated farming models||Agriculture Minister Virender Kanwar on Tuesday exhorted the farm scientists to develop integrated farming models which the farmers may adopt as per needs to boost their economy.He was addressing a state-level farm officers’ workshop-cum-farmer scientist interface held at Chaudhary Sarwan Kumar Himachal Pradesh Agriculture University (HPAU), Palampur.Kanwar also stressed on the production of seeds of the major crop within the state so that the state’s dependence on imports, which accounts for 80% of the total requirement could be reduced.He said efforts were underway to conserve and preserve the seeds of traditional crops under ‘Mukhyamantri Paramparagat Beej Sanrakshan Yojana’ and advised the farm officers to educate farmers about the proper use of chemicals and fertilisers as pesticide residue was highest in Himachal Pradesh.Kanwar said farm chemicals should be only available at registered shops and the person concerned should be properly trained to prevent excessive use of chemicals in the fields.The minister also informed that a 25-year roadmap has been developed for natural farming in the state to shift from chemical farming.He sought the scientists to suggest crops for mid-hill areas of the state. He also invited suggestions to prevent crop damage by wild animals.The problem of stray cattle will end by coming March as many cow sanctuaries would be made functional in the state, he said.Kanwar also discussed issues like the growing problem of lantana grass and asked the university to submit a project for its complete eradication.The minister underlined the need to make Krishi Vigyan Kendras more vibrant to solve the problems of farmers.Vice-chancellor Prof Harinder Kumar Chaudhary elaborated about major research and extension achievements of the HPAU which has enabled farmers of the state to get national-level awards in the recent past. He said that Krishi Vigyan Kendras have initiated work to produce seeds of wheat and mash.He said the work has been imitated to conserve traditional seeds and get these registered.He said special effort has been made to rejuvenate farm research in tribal areas and discussed issues like preparedness for adverse effects of climate change, vocal for local and high-end research facilities in HPAU like phototron and Shiitake Mushroom Unit.Director of agriculture NK Dhiman said that research work should be done to reduce the cost of production and natural farming was a good alternative for it.As a slight increase in temperature can reduce crop yields by 5-10% so work on cropping patterns with low water requirements and temperature stress-tolerant varieties should be expedited, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/himachal-agriculture-minister-exhorts-scientists-to-develop-integrated-farming-models-101640723402429.html
29-12-2021||Chandigarh||Snowfall to elude Himachal on New Year: MeT||White New Year is likely to elude Himachal as the MeT department has forecast dry weather for the next four days till January 1.On the occasion of New Year, a large number of tourists throng hill stations of Himachal from different parts of the country to get a glimpse of snowfall and enjoy winter sports.Earlier, snowfall eluded the hill state on Christmas but the higher reaches of the state got a fresh spell of snow a day later while Shimla town had experienced traces.Last time, Himachal had got the snowfall on New Year eve in 2010.Sub-zero temperatures across the stateMeanwhile, Himachal shivered in sub-zero temperature as the bone-chilling cold swept across the state on Tuesday.Keylong, the administrative headquarters of tribal Lahaul-Spiti district, was coldest at minus 10.3 degrees Celsius.Director of Shimla MeT centre Surender Paul said that minimum temperatures decreased by 1-2 degrees Celsius while maximum temperatures plunged to 4-5 degrees Celsius.“The minimum temperatures were normal and maximum temperatures were 1-2 degrees below normal, he said.Kalpa in Kinnaur recorded a low of minus 4.5 degrees C, Kufri minus 1.8 degrees C, Manali minus 1.2 degrees C and Dalhousie minus 1 degrees C.Solan and Sunderngar recorded a low of 0.6 degrees C, while the hill stations Palampur and Dharamshala recorded a minimum temperature of 3.5 and 8.5 degrees C, respectively.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/snowfall-to-elude-himachal-on-new-year-met-101640723346784.html
29-12-2021||Chandigarh||Rajnath Singh dedicates projects to Himachal||Union defence minister Rajnath Singh on Tuesday dedicated 27 strategically important projects which include five bridges on the roads connecting the China border. Singh virtually dedicated the strategic projects constructed by the army’s elite construction wing, Border Roads Organisation (BRO), from New Delhi. Himachal chief minister Jai Ram Thakur virtually joined the defence minister from Shimla. The important projects that were thrown open on Tuesday also included two bridges in Kothi nullah on the main Manali Sarchu highway. The two bridges have been constructed at an estimated cost of nearly ₹60 lakh.The BRO constructed the steel bridge at the commander nullah another bridge was constructed at Patsio on the Manali Sarchu road. The steel structure is 60 metre in length, while a 30-metre-long bridge has been constructed across the Kasang nullah in tribal Kinnaur district. The existing Bailey bridge was not capable to carry a heavy traffic load. “The construction of the bridge was challenging due to topography. The deep gorges made it more difficult. The work didn’t even stop during the pandemic. The bridge will further prove beneficial for the farmers,” said the official.“The construction of the bridge will provide fast connectivity to the locals in Lahaul and Spiti district while it will facilitate army vehicles to carry heavy war equipment to the border areas,” said an official of the BRO.“These bridges on the alternate route to Leh will prove to be of great help to our soldiers posted in Jammu and Kashmir and Leh. The local people would also get the benefit of these bridges and would further strengthen the socio-economic relations between the people of Lahaul-Spiti’s Keylong valley and Leh and Ladakh,” said Jai Ram Thakur, adding that moreover heavy military vehicles would pass through this route conveniently and local people would get the facility to transport their farm produce like apples, potatoes, peas, almonds and other crops to markets. This bridge would also contribute significantly to increasing the economy of Kinnaur district, he added.
29-12-2021||Chandigarh||College principal suspended over sexual harassment charges in Himachal||The education department has put officiating principal of Government College, Seema (Rohru), Brajesh Chauhan, who is accused of vulgar talk with a girl student, under suspension and disciplinary action has been initiated against him. An order to this effect was issued by the secretary (education) Rajeev Sharma. The accused was booked for sexual harassment and stalking under Sections 354-A and 354-D of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) on December 24 after the victim and the college’s women cell lodged FIR against him at the Rohru police station. The police said the victim had approached the officiating principal for filling a scholarship form. The principal asked her to call him on his mobile phone. When she rang him up, the accused started vulgar talk and also made an objectionable comment against the woman staff. She recorded the conversation and filed a complaint to the women’s cell of the college. Director higher education Amarjeet Kumar Sharma said the department had several verbal complaints against the principal in the past too. Meanwhile, the accused has been granted bail by the high court and told to appear before the investigating officer. ‘Curb violence on campuses’ The higher education department has asked the school and college principals to curb violence by students on their campuses. The director, higher education, Amarjeet Kumar Sharma has issued a memo to the school and college authorities in this regard. Sharma said several incidents of violence involving school and college students have been reported in the recent days which was vitiating the academic atmosphere in the educational institutions. He said the college and school administrations were not submitting the action-taken report in such cases to the directorate. Thus the authorities have been directed to activate the discipline committee their respective institutions and take strict action against the defaulting students as per norms, he said. The school and college administration will also take immediate steps for counselling of the students with the help of the Parent-Teacher Association to maintain discipline so that incidents of violence are not repeated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/college-principal-suspended-over-sexual-harassment-charges-in-himachal-101640723344268.html
29-12-2021||Chandigarh||State Legal Services Authority to launch awareness drive for transgenders in Himachal||The State Legal Services Authority (SLSA) will start an awareness campaign for transgender people in Himachal Pradesh, Prem Pal Ranta, member secretary of the authority, said during a weekly webinar on Human Rights organised by the Umang Foundation, a local voluntary and rights organisation.Ratna appealed to the youth to come forward to create legal awareness in society, particularly in rural areas, by joining SLSA as para legal volunteers.He said the SLSA would launch an awareness programme for transgender as they belong to an extremely marginalised section of society.“Youth can play a very crucial role in transforming the lives of underprivileged people,” said Ratna, adding that anyone having passed his matriculation can become a para legal volunteer.Ratna said that SC, ST, women, children, transgender, prisoners, mentally disabled persons, drug edicts and people affected in any calamity are eligible to get free legal support from the SLSA.Apart from them, elderly persons with an income below ₹3 lakh are also eligible to get the benefits of the scheme.At the national level, there is the National Legal Services Authority and all the states have the SLSA and similar bodies are in place at district and sub-division levels. It has a panel of competent lawyers who provide legal assistance to the eligible people from district courts, high courts and the Supreme Court.Elaborating about the works carried out by the SLSA during the pandemic, Ranta said the authority ensures the support to migrant labourers, children, prisoners and other marginalised sections of society.“The SLSA identified 45 orphans and 67 semi-orphan children who were the victim of the pandemic and ensured all kinds of support to them. At Nahan Jail, a special Covid hospital was set up after the intervention of SLSA,” he said.To decongest the jails a special payroll of 90 days was provided to the prisoners, he added.Meanwhile, Akanksha Jaswal, who convened the webinar, said it was the 15th weekly webinar on human rights awareness by the Umang Foundation in which as many as 80 youths participated.Umang Foundation’s Chairman Ajai Srivastava said the organisation would associate with the SLSA in future to create legal literacy in the remote areas of Himachal Pradesh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/state-legal-services-authority-to-launch-awareness-drive-for-transgenders-in-himachal-101640723342519.html
29-12-2021||Chandigarh||4 held with 375kg poppy husk in Kapurthala||Four people were caught smuggling 375kg poppy husk into the state on Tuesday. The accused – Piara Lal, Surinder, Jasbir Singh Kala and Didar Singh, all residents of Kapurthala – had concealed the contraband in a special compartment in their truck, which was stopped at a check post on the Kapurthala-Sultanpur Lodhi Road. The accused were bringing the consignment from Madhya Pradesh. Kapurthala senior superintendent of police (SSP) Harkamalpreet Singh Khakh said the secret compartment could easily pass off as the floor of an ordinary truck, and 350 sacks of basmati rice had been stacked on it. “We found 25 sacks (15kg each ) of poppy husks in the compartment. This is the third big haul seized in the last month. We have been checking vehicles, especially those coming from Jammu and Kashmir, and Madhya Pradesh,” he said. Man held with 110g heroin In a second case, the prime accused in the 52-kg heroin seizure by the Jammu and Kashmir Police was arrested with 100g heroin. The 52 kg heroin consignment had been intercepted on November 24. The accused, Happy of Mehtabgarh village, has confessed to his crime and revealed his links with the cross-border smugglers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/4-held-with-375kg-poppy-husk-in-kapurthala-101640723282298.html
29-12-2021||Chandigarh||PM should transfer Chandigarh, Punjabi speaking areas to state: SAD president Sukhbir Badal||Shiromani Akali Dal president Sukhbir Singh Badal on Tuesday urged the Prime Minister to transfer Chandigarh and other Punjabi speaking areas to Punjab and give the state riparian rights over the water in its rivers.Alluding to the Prime Minister’s January 5 visit, Badal said Punjabis had always hoped that successive Prime Ministers would undo the injustice meted out to the state. “ I urge the PM to make a difference by transferring Chandigarh to Punjab during his visit. Punjabi speaking areas which were left out of the state at the time of its reorganisation in 1966 should be transferred back to it and the state’s riparian rights restored.”The SAD president, who was addressing a rally in favour Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) candidate Kamaljit Chawla in Gurdaspur, promised to establish a cooperative sugar mill in the town. He also said that the PGI Satellite Centre at Ferozepur which had been secured by him for the state, will be inaugurated by the PM. On the ‘letter bomb’ controversy, Badal said, “Sanyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM) leader Balbir Singh Rajewal owes an explanation for his actions. Apparently, he was betraying the Kisan Andolan by trying to make secret deals with the Centre. The matter should be probed.”Asked about the alliance of the BJP with Captain Amarinder Singh’s Lok Congress Party and Sukhdev Singh Dhindsa’s SAD (Sanyukt), Badal said, “Combining one non-entity with another doesn’t make any difference to the final product. A zero hundred times over is still a zero. Punjabis know their arithmetic. This alliance will not make any difference to state politics”.Taking a dig on Pradesh Congress President Navjot Singh Sidhu , the SAD president said, “As if being a misguided missile was not bad enough, Sidhu is now shaming Punjabis by publicly resorting to vulgarity in his maverick outbursts. Sidhu has nothing to offer Punjab, except poison, hatred, limitless ego and arrogance.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/pm-should-transfer-chandigarh-punjabi-speaking-areas-to-state-sad-president-sukhbir-badal-101640722442662.html
29-12-2021||Other||Gurugram: 4 booked for trying to extort Bhondsi meat shop owner||Police on Tuesday booked four men for allegedly assaulting and demanding protection money from the owner of a meat shop in Bhondsi. Police said the suspects who extorted money from many shopkeepers have earlier been jailed in similar cases. The suspects were identified as Rohtas, Vishal and Gaurav alias Bouncer, all from Behalpa village, and Sumit alias Metu of Rithoj village in Bhondsi, police said, adding that a search operation has been launched to nab them. According to police, complainant Azru, a native of Hathin in Palwal, lives in a rented accommodation in Bhondsi and runs a meat shop in the area. Police said that on December 24 one of the suspects went to Azru’s shop and demanded ₹5,000 as protection money to which he refused. After an hour three more men came to his shop and threatened him for life, police said. Azru said he was with his brother in the shop when the suspects came with weapons to threaten him for life and caught hold of him. “I refused to pay them, following which they started beating me with sticks and iron rods. One of the suspects also attacked me with a knife picked up from my shop but I managed to escape,” he said. The victim’s brother rushed out of the shop and raised an alarm, but Rohtas, one of the suspects, took him at gunpoint, police said. Preet Pal Sangwan, assistant commissioner of police, said that seeing the public coming to the Azru’s shop, the suspects fled from the spot. “The suspects threatened the victim and said they will return. They were earlier also booked for similar cases,” he said. A case under sections 323 (assault), 384 (extortion), 506 (criminal intimidation), and 34 (common intention) of Indian Penal Code was registered at Bhondsi police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/gurugram-4-booked-for-trying-to-extort-bhondsi-meat-shop-owner-101640722142080.html
29-12-2021||Other||Son of Delhi cop stabbed to death in Faridabad, four arrested||The 26-year-old son of a Delhi Police officer was allegedly stabbed to death by his neighbours on Monday evening following an altercation over the cleaning of a drain near his house in Faridabad, police said, adding that four of the suspects have been arrested.The incident took place around 5pm in Tigaon village of Faridabad, police said, adding that the victim’s father is a sub-inspector with the Delhi Police. The deceased has been identified as Pankaj Nagar. On the basis of a complaint by Sonu Singh, the victim’s cousin, a case was registered against six suspects --Pawan , Rahul, Naresh, Dharmvir, Shimla and Lalaram -- at Tigaon police station, police said. Four of the suspects -- Pawan, Rahul, Naresh, and Lalaram -- were arrested on Tuesday, they said.The complainant said that on Monday around 2.30pm, a scuffle broke out among the neighbours and the suspects threw bricks on Pankaj and his family members. “We went to Tigaon police station and lodged a complaint against the suspects. When we were returning, the suspects threatened to kill Pankaj,” he said. Singh said around 4.30pm he along with his friend were coming to meet Pankaj, when they saw the six suspects intercepting Pankaj’s way. “The six suspects intercepted Pankaj who was on a motorcycle. They were holding weapons and knives in their hands. Four of them stabbed Pankaj while the other two caught hold of him, following which he fell on the road,” he said. Narender Kadiyan, deputy commissioner of police (crime), said, “There were two groups and the suspects often had tiff with the deceased and his family members over the cleaning of drain. On Monday, the drain was blocked and the victim was cleaning it, but one of the suspects threw garbage in it. He got agitated and asked them to clean it but they refused, following which they landed in a tiff which took an ugly turn.” Kadiyan said that the victim was taken to a private hospital where he died while undergoing treatment. “The victim suffered four stab wounds to his chest, abdomen and hands. He died due to excessive bleeding,” he said. Six people were booked under sections 302 (murder), 148 (rioting, armed with deadly weapon),149 (unlawful assembly guilty of offence committed in prosecution of common object), 332 (voluntarily causing hurt to deter public servant from his duty), and 120B (conspiracy) of Indian Penal Code and section 25 of the Arms Act at Tigaon police station, said police. 
29-12-2021||Noida||Body of missing 3-year-old girl found in Noida Phase 2; several booked, probe on||A three-year-old girl, who had been missing for four days, was found dead in the Noida Phase 2 area on Tuesday, said police.The victim, Mahi, lived with her grandmother Neeraj (goes by one name), 65, in Yakubpur village as her father has been in jail and her mother lives separately, said police officials. A case has been registered against some unidentified people under Indian Penal Code (IPC) Section 363 (abduction) at the Phase 2 police station. Vrinda Shukla, deputy commissioner of police (women safety), Gautam Budh Nagar, said that Neeraj informed police on Saturday that Mahi had gone missing while she was playing outside her home. “A police team reached the area and launched a search, but failed to trace the child,” Shukla said.Local residents informed the police on Tuesday that the body of a girl was found in an abandoned under-construction building, nearly 100 metres away from the victim’s house. “The victim has suffered some injury marks and it appears that she was murdered. A team of forensic experts collected evidence from the spot. The body was sent for post mortem and the reports are awaited,” Shukla added. She also said that the child’s father has been in judicial custody for the last two years in connection with a murder case. “The child’s mother and grandmother had a disagreement over the custody of the child... So far, we have questioned six people in connection with the case. A police team has also gone to Badaun to question the victim’s mother, who lives there. We will soon arrest people involved in the crime,” she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/body-of-missing-3-year-old-girl-found-in-noida-phase-2-several-booked-probe-on-101640721602287.html
29-12-2021||Other||Gurugram: Panel to look into traffic mess at Sirhaul toll plaza||htreporters@hindustantimes.comTo resolve the issue of frequent traffic jams at the Sirhaul toll plaza on the Delhi-Gurugram Expressway, the district administration on Tuesday decided to constitute a committee that will include officials from traffic department and the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI). The committee will study the pattern of traffic movement and other aspects and suggest feasible solutions to resolve the problems being faced by commuters at the toll plaza, said officials. The decision to form a committee was taken by Gurugram deputy commissioner Yash Garg, who along with a team of officials, inspected the Sirhaul toll plaza on Tuesday. “We have decided to form a team of traffic and NHAI officials, who shall study the issue in detail, along with road safety officers, and make suggestions to resolve the congestion. The proposed changes in traffic movement and design will be tested on a trial basis, and if successful, implemented there,” said Garg. As per the Gurugram traffic department, the traffic jams are caused at the Sirhaul toll plaza due to a toll operated by the Delhi government which charges toll and green tax from commercial vehicles. Ravinder Tomar, DCP (traffic), who was present during the inspection, said that it was important that lanes on both sides of the highway at Sirhaul are equal. For vehicles moving from Gurugram to Delhi, the space is less, he said, adding that . three lanes on the left side of the toll were not being used and these must be used frequently. Garg said that the district administration will also meet the top NHAI officials and other authorities concerned so that a solution can be found out. According to NHAI officials, the toll plaza at Sirhaul has been established on the directions of the Supreme Court to collect toll from commercial vehicles entering Delhi. They also said that shifting the median was not a feasible solution, but agreed to work with the district administration to resolve the issue of congestion.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/gurugram-panel-to-look-into-traffic-mess-at-sirhaul-toll-plaza-101640721482106.html
29-12-2021||Other||Develop system for early detection of illegal colonies, directs Gurugram DC||The district task force for town and country planning on Tuesday directed that a mechanism for early detection of illegal colonies in the outskirts of the city should be developed so that action at initial stages of development can be taken. Chairing a meeting of the district task force at mini secretariat, Gurugram deputy commissioner Yash Garg also called for strict action against commercial activities in residential colonies. During the meeting, RS Bhath, district town planner (enforcement) said that seven illegal colonies being developed in Farrukhnagar have been identified and action would be taken against them by January 15. “We have already issued notices to these colonisers and asked them to reply by January 4. It is unlikely that satisfactory reply would be submitted by them as these colonies are illegal,” he said. Garg directed the task force to prevent illegal colonisation and also commercial activities in private colonies as these put pressure on infrastructure and also hamper the lives of common citizens. “The illegal colonies must be identified at the initial stage and stopped from coming up. Commercial activities also create a lot of issues in residential areas and must be stopped,” he said. Bhath also said that the drone survey of illegal colonies, which is being carried out to identify the status of unauthorised areas, has covered 3,000 acres and eventually it will cover all the unauthorised colonies in the district spread over 12,000 acres. “The drone survey has been carried out in New Palam Vihar and Garhi Harsaru, and presently it is going on in Bhondsi,” he said. The officials from the department of town and country planning (DTCP) also informed the meeting that a large number of commercial establishments are running in residential areas in DLF Phase 1 and 2, and Sushant Lok 1, 2 and 3. Violators are being identified and notices issued to them. “It has also been decided that in case of new constructions in private licensed colonies, if an owner makes violations at the initial stage of construction then DTCP will write to power department and recommend that electricity connection should not be issued,” said Bhath. The DTCP, in collaboration with the Dakshin Haryana Bijli Vitran Nigam (DHBVN) and other departments, will also carry out anti-encroachment drive against the violators in Saraswati Kunj colony. “A large number of complaints have been received regarding encroachments and illegal constructions and it has been decided to clear these in the next two weeks,” said Bhath. Deputy commissioner Garg also said that since the state government has come out with a new policy for guest house regularisation, it was imperative upon all the operators to follow the rules and get themselves registered with the authorities. “A detailed survey should be carried out to identify the guest houses within a month and action should be taken against those which are illegal,” said Garg. In a related development, the enforcement wing of the DTCP carried out a demolition drive in Mahenderwada village in Bhondsi and two colonies being developed separately on five acres and one acre were demolished. The DTCP officials said that four under construction houses, 15 plinths, sewer lines and road network were demolished as these colonies were being carved out without any permission or license from the authorities. “We had issued notices to the plot owners to stop construction but they failed to do so, following which action was taken,” said Bhath. 
29-12-2021||Noida||Noida crime: Advocate, 3 others booked for allegedly raping a Ballabhgarh woman||Four people, including an advocate, have been booked for allegedly raping a 30-year-old woman in Noida Sector 2, police said on Tuesday.A case was registered against the four suspects under Indian Penal Code (IPC) Section 376D (gang rape) at the Ballabhgarh police station in the matter, which took place three months ago, and was later transferred from the Ballabhgarh police station in Haryana to the Sector 20 police in Noida on Tuesday, police said. Manoj Kumar, station house officer (SHO), Sector 20 police station, said that the victim is a resident of Ballabhgarh. “The victim, in the FIR, alleged that her husband was arrested from Noida in connection with a murder case in October. She came to Noida and got in touch with a lawyer to get a bail for her husband... The woman alleged that the lawyer took her to his office in Sector 2 for documentation, and he and three of his accomplices raped the woman there,” Kumar said. The woman later returned to Haryana, and filed a complaint at the local police station recently.“The Ballabgarh police transferred the case to the Noida Sector 20 police. We are yet to identify the suspects. We will call the woman for interrogation and an investigation is underway,” said Kumar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/noida-crime-advocate-3-others-booked-for-allegedly-raping-a-ballabhgarh-woman-101640720882143.html
29-12-2021||Other||Light rain brings down daytime temperature by 4°C in Gurugram||The city on Tuesday witnessed light rain throughout the day, bringing down the maximum temperature by four degrees, according to the India Meteorological Department (IMD).Gurugram on Tuesday recorded the maximum temperature at 16°C, four degrees below normal, while the minimum temperature was 10.5°C, which was five degrees above normal. On Monday, the maximum and minimum temperatures in the city were at 20.3°C and 11°C, respectively.On Tuesday, Gurugram received 1mm of rainfall, according to the weather bulletin issued by Meteorological Centre Chandigarh, a regional centre of IMD. Manmohan Singh, director of Meteorological Centre Chandigarh, said, “From Wednesday, the weather will start getting clear but the region is likely to experience dense fog. Cold wave conditions are also likely to start within two to three days and will continue till the mid of first week of January.” IMD on Tuesday said that cold wave conditions are likely to prevail over Punjab, Haryana and Chandigarh from December 31 till January 2. Dense fog in isolated pockets is very likely over Punjab and Haryana during the next three days, it predicted. The weather officials said that there would be no significant change in the minimum temperature during the next 24 hours, but after that a fall by two to four degrees is likely for subsequent two days. The IMD on Monday issued a yellow alert asking authorities to be prepared and predicted dense fog for south Haryana region, including Gurugram and Faridabad, for December 29-30 and cold wave for December 31 and January 1. Experts said that cold wave conditions will develop as direction of winds is likely to change and become north-westerly. Navdeep Dahiya, a Rohtak-based meteorologist, said, “From December 31 onwards, the direction of winds may change to north-westerly due to which cold wave conditions will be created. If the winds are slow, then level of air pollution can also increase. Over the next few days, there are frequent but weak western disturbance activities, due to which peak winters have not been experienced yet with prolonged stretch of cold wave.” Meanwhile, on Tuesday, Gurugram recorded ‘poor’ air quality for the second consecutive day. According to the 4pm bulletin of the Central Pollution Control Board, the air quality index of Gurugram on Tuesday was 283 with PM2.5 as the primary pollutant. On Monday, the city had recorded an AQI reading of 250. According to the weather bulletin issued on Tuesday by the Air Quality Early Warning System for Delhi-NCR, the air quality over the region is likely to remain in the ‘poor’ category over the next two days. Over the next five days, the air quality is likely to dip to the ‘very poor’ category again, it said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/light-rain-brings-down-daytime-temperature-by-4-c-in-gurugram-101640720822175.html
29-12-2021||Other||175k children in 15-18 age group eligible for Covid jab in Gurugram||Around 175,000 children in the age bracket of 15-18 years are eligible for Covid-19 vaccination in the district, who will be administered Covaxin jabs from January 3, said officials from the district health department on Tuesday. During a district administration’s meeting held on Tuesday on preparations to handle the Omicron variant of Covid-19, district chief medical officer (CMO) Dr Virender Yadav said that vaccination centres for children will be set up at all medical facilities across the district. He also said that both private and government hospitals should complete all the vaccination related arrangements on time. “There are about 175,000 adolescents in the age group of 15 to 18 years in the district. They would be vaccinated as per the guidelines of the central government. For this, the hospitals should ensure a separate counter while following all Covid-19 safety protocols on their premises. The immunisation of children who are 15 years or more as on January 1, 2022, that is, those born in 2007 or earlier, would start from January 3,” said the chief medical officer. Recently, Prime Minister Narendra Modi announced that vaccination for children in this age bracket will start from January 3.On Tuesday, Gurugram reported 76 fresh cases of Covid-19, along with 15 recoveries. The active caseload now stands at 378 in the district, of which six are hospitalised and 372 are under home isolation, the officials said.Gurugram deputy commissioner Yash Garg, who chaired the meeting on Tuesday, said that hospitals should avoid giving any wrong information with regard to the Omicron variant as it can create panic among people. “Hospitals should admit only seriously infected patients and should not unnecessarily admit a person who can be cured even by staying in home isolation. Till now, only one Omicron patient has been confirmed in Gurugram district, so people should not panic,” said Garg. While directing the representatives from different hospitals who attended the meeting, the deputy commissioner said that they should provide correct information to the district administration regarding vaccination, availability of beds and oxygen and other health facilities. “The proper details by hospitals help provide better health facilities to the people. Hospitals should also take special care of safety of the health care staff working there and ensure that they get the precautionary dose on time. Private institutions, including hospitals, should ensure that they do not employ a person who has not yet taken both the doses of Covid-19 vaccine,” Garg said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/175k-children-in-15-18-age-group-eligible-for-covid-jab-in-gurugram-101640720461898.html
29-12-2021||Chandigarh||Kejriwal to lead AAP’s peace march in Patiala on Dec 31||Chandigarh : Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) will take out a “Peace March” in Patiala on December 31 under the leadership of national convener and Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal, said party’s state unit president Bhagwant Mann on Tuesday. In a video message, Mann said this procession will be dedicated to peace and prosperity of the state. “In the last few days, there have been attempts to disturb the peaceful atmosphere and brotherhood of the state. Punjab is known for its social bonding and brotherhood. People of Punjab, irrespective of their religion or cast, have no tolerance for hatred,” he said. Raising questions about the frequency of such incidents just days before the assembly elections, he claimed this is an outcome of dirty politics that seek to fulfil their electoral agenda by hurting the sentiments or lives of people. He urged people to be part of this procession in maximum numbers to tell all the anti-social elements that Punjab will never let such evil-minded attempts to succeed here.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/kejriwal-to-lead-aap-s-peace-march-in-patiala-on-dec-31-101640720342041.html
29-12-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab polls: AAP names 15 more candidates, Charanjit to fight against Channi||Chandigarh : The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) on Tuesday announced 15 more candidates for the upcoming assembly elections in Punjab, taking the total number of nominees named so far to 88. Kulwant Singh, a real estate baron and former Mohali mayor, will fight from Mohali, according to the fifth list of candidates released by the party. He had joined the party on Monday. Dr Charanjit Singh has been fielded from Chamkaur Sahib from where chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi is the sitting MLA. Gurdeep Singh Randhawa will fight from Dera Baba Nanak, Baldev Singh from Raja Sansi, Manju Rana from Kapurthala, Rattan Singh Kakarkalan from Shahkot, Sheetal Angural from Jalandahr West, Jeet Lal Bhatti from Adampur and Kuljit Singh from Banga, Rupinder Singh from Bassi Pathana, Rajinder Pal Kaur Chhina from Ludhiana South, Ranveer Singh from Ferozepur City, Jagroop Singh Bathinda Urban, Jaswant Singh from Amargarh and Gurdev Singh Mann from Nabha are the other candidates.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-polls-aap-names-15-more-candidates-charanjit-to-fight-against-channi-101640720222095.html
29-12-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab polls: AAP’s Chandigarh surge sets alarm bells ringing for SAD, Cong||CHANDIGARH : The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) is gung-ho in Punjab after its scintillating debut in the Chandigarh municipal corporation on Monday where it trumped the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and the Congress. AAP national convener and Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal and party’s Punjab unit chief Bhagwant Mann, who both campaigned in the municipal polls in Chandigarh, lost no time in terming its 14 seats out of 35 to emerge as the single-largest party as a “sign of the coming change” in Punjab where the state elections are just weeks away. Much-needed morale boosterThe AAP’s surge in Chandigarh, the joint capital of Punjab and Haryana, will serve as a much-needed morale booster for the party. The AAP had made a stunning debut in Punjab in 2014 winning four of the 13 Lok Sabha seats and took the number two position in the 2017 state polls, but then failed to meet heady expectations as it plunged into disarray. The party is now slowly trying to get its act together. Helping it find traction is a raft of freebies announced by Kejriwal and the campaign for “ek mauka” (chance). At the same time, it is also an alarm bell for the two traditional players, the Congress and Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD), which are beset with their own set of problems. The ruling Congress is hamstrung by internal squabbling, particularly the tussle between chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi and Punjab Congress president Navjot Singh Sidhu over the chief ministerial face of the party. The Akalis, on the other hand, are worried about the sacrilege and drug issues, which proved to be their nemesis in 2017, dominating the poll narrative, besides the impact of 22 farmer organisations’ decision to jump into the poll ring on its pockets of support in peasantry. Win not an indicator of public mood in Punjab The win could not have come at a more opportune time for the party, but the attempts to project it as a sign of change in Punjab seem far-fetched. Despite their strong links, Chandigarh, seen by many as a microcosm of Punjab, cannot be taken as the bellwether of the agrarian state. Ashutosh Kumar, a professor of political science at Panjab University, says that the Chandigarh win will send a strong message to Punjab because its (city’s) soul is very much Punjabi, but it cannot be construed as an indicator of the public mood there. “People of Punjab are looking of an alternative. If the AAP wants to put up a strong challenge, it has to project a good CM-face and avoid the mistakes of 2017,” he adds. Sanyukt Samaj Morcha a challenge for AAP In the previous state elections, besides micro-managing the campaign from Delhi, the party had not named the CM-face and was targeted by its rivals for trying to impose “outsider Kejriwal” on the state. Again, Kejriwal and his team are steering the election campaign. Another challenge for the party is the emergence of the Sanyukt Samaj Morcha (SSM), a political party floated by 22 farmer organisations, which has thrown its hat in the ring. Guru Nanak Dev University’s former head of political science professor Jagrup Singh Sekhon said the AAP was beginning to get support in rural area as an alternative to people fed up with traditional parties, but it will now have to compete with the SSM which has a strong presence at booth level in every village. Given the challenges it faces, the AAP will need much more than a booster dose to revive the groundswell of support it had around the same time five years ago and that helped it make an impact in its first electoral outing in the state polls. 
29-12-2021||Noida||5 held for robbing commuters in Noida, Greater Noida on pretext of offering lift||Police arrested five people on Monday night for allegedly looting commuters on the pretext of offering them lift in a vehicle in Noida and Greater Noida, said officials of the Expressway police on Tuesday.The suspects -- identified as Deepak Chauhan, 23, Sumit Chauhan, 25, Punit Singh, 24, Vijay Kumar, 22, and Sameer, 23 -- all residents of Aligarh, have been committing the crime for the past one year. Five cases of loot and robbery were registered against the suspects at the Expressway and Dankaur police stations this year, said the police.Kumar Ranvijay Singh, additional deputy commissioner of police (ADCP), Noida, said that the Expressway police got a tip about the suspects’ movement near Jaypee Hospital in Noida Sector 128 on Monday night. “Police signalled their Maruti Swift Dzire car, with no number plate, to stop for checking. Soon, the suspects opened fire at the police team and tried to escape, but failed to do so,” he said, adding that Deepak suffered a bullet injury in his left leg during an encounter with the police, which broke out after they resisted their arrest.Police have recovered two countrymade guns, three live cartridges, two used cartridges and a stolen car from the possession of the suspects. The five arrested men revealed during interrogation that they used to offer lift to people in their car and then rob them at gunpoint. On October 31 this year, Deepak and Sumit were arrested from Dankaur in connection with a robbery case. “They had robbed a man of ₹1 lakh in Dankaur on October 28. Police arrested the duo, and sent them to jail. But, after being released from the jail on a bail in November, they were again involved in such crimes,” Singh said.The suspects were produced before a court and sent to judicial custody on Tuesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/5-held-for-robbing-commuters-in-noida-greater-noida-on-pretext-of-offering-lift-101640719924320.html
29-12-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab: From January 15, only fully vaccinated people allowed in public places||Chandigarh: Following the Omicron threat, the Punjab government on Tuesday imposed fresh restrictions and made Covid vaccine mandatory for all to access public places.Only fully vaccinated people will be permitted at public places such as markets, malls, hotels and cinema halls in Punjab with effect from January 15, according to a state government order. The government ordered private and public sector banks, hotels, bars, restaurants, malls, shopping complexes, cinema halls, gyms and fitness centres to allow only fully vaccinated adults. All government, board and corporation offices located in Chandigarh will allow only fully vaccinated people, according to the order issued by the state’s home affairs and justice department. “Covid-19 pandemic has posed a huge challenge to the community and affected each and every individual adversely. Considering emergent issues especially because of the new variant of concern Omicron, the persons who are not fully vaccinated are required to take more precautions,” the order stated. “Accordingly all those adult persons who have not yet taken both the doses of vaccination should remain at their residences and should not visit any of public places/market/ function/ public transport/religious places, etc,” it said. It further said that vaccination teams where and whenever demanded by office in charges for on the spot vaccination or for regular vaccination camps at places of gathering would be provided by the department of health, it said. A few days ago, the Punjab government had asked its employees to furnish details regarding Covid-19 vaccination and said if they fail to do so, they will not be able to draw their salaries. Punjab logs 51 fresh Covid cases Meanwhile, Punjab on Monday reported 51 fresh Covid cases taking the infection tally to 6,04,331, according to a medical bulletin. Punjab’s positivity rate for the day remained 0.46% and the state’s testing coming down to lowest at of 11,126 tests in a single day in past one month. The number of active cases in the state also rose to 390, the bulletin said. Among fresh cases, maximum 12 were detected in Pathankot followed by 10 in Patiala. With 53 persons recovering from the infection, the number of cured persons in the state has reached 5,87,299 it said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-from-january-15-only-fully-vaccinated-people-allowed-in-public-places-101640719921887.html
29-12-2021||Mumbai||35 Amur falcon birds take a halt in Palghar district||Mumbai: The birdwatching community of Vasai-Virar was in for a treat to witness a flock of 35 Amur falcon, a champion migratory bird known as the world’s longest travelling raptor, basking in the warmer climes of Gogte saltpans between Nala Sopara and Vasai. The place is a halt for the avian beauties to rest, fatten up and take another journey towards South Africa and other warmer regions.Palghar-based birder Pravin Babre captured the winged beauties in its glory that generated a lot of enthusiasm among other birdwatchers in the area. One of them is Amol Lopes who informed that the iconic bird undertakes long migratory journeys from colder regions like Siberia, Russia, China among others to warmer places like South Africa, India and eastern nations. The Amur falcon can cover about 22,000 km annually.“The migrating Amur falcon flies at night too, crossing vast oceans to stop in Nagaland and Bangladesh to fatten up before staging for overland flights across Peninsular India,” added Amol Lopes.Subsequently, they cross the Indian Ocean to East Africa non-stop over 3,000 kms, flying day and night. This falcon is an “elliptical migrant” because its route back home is largely overland to the northwest. The avian beauty is sized between 21 cm to 31 cm, feeds on grasshoppers, dragonflies,and insects and is abundantly found in Pangti, Wokha district, Nagaland, which is protected under the Indian Wildlife Protection Act, 1972. This is their favourite halt for at least a few weeks. Lopes also informed, “We have created the Vasai Birds app and since 2012 till date we have documented more than 310 bird species in the Vasai-Virar belt and birdwatchers post any new sightings on the app for fresh updates.”The Gogte Salt pans are made of shallow watered salt pans and two major lakes - Chulne lake and Gass but five years from now the salt pans will vanish due to concrete jungles coming up and thus the birds habitat will be in danger, worry bird watchers as the salt pans provides food and shelter to many migratory and resident species of birds.Adesh Shivkar, founder member of Mumbai Bird Watchers’ Club and a bird expert said, “The name of Amur falcon derives from areas of North Mongolia, East Siberia which is also called Amurland. The bird is vulnerable to poaching as during their migration, poachers would kill an average 20,000 birds per day for its meat in Nagaland which has now stopped.”Shivkar also shared that in Nagaland, poachers would trap the Amur falcon by poisoning their prey-fish- during the stopover period and after environmentalists protested to the Nagaland government, the poaching has stopped and now the same poachers are working as bird guides and spreading awareness about the need to protect and conserve the falcons.The birds settle in Goa, Mumbai, Gujarat, Kerala and western coasts to fatten up and then fly to South Africa crossing the Arabian Sea and in the return trip take a different route, said Shivkar, adding “We need to save the birds’ passageway such as the Gogte saltpans as it an important ecosystem and habitat.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/35-amur-falcon-birds-take-a-halt-in-palghar-district-101640719864100.html
29-12-2021||Chandigarh||Wrong info on route permits:HC dismisses PCS officer’s plea against chargesheet||Chandigarh: The Punjab and Haryana high court has refused to quash a chargesheet issued to PCS officer Gurpreet Singh Thind by the government in September 2019 regarding allegations of wrong information on grant of route permits to a government lawyer in the high court.The high court bench of justice MS Sindhu observed that it is nowhere alleged that the impugned chargesheet has been issued on account of any bad faith or ill-motive of the competent authority. Since the inquiry officer has already been appointed, it would not be appropriate for the court to conduct a roving inquiry and examine truthfulness of the allegations levelled against petitioner by way of judicial review, the bench added.Thind, was secretary, Regional Transport Authority (RTA), Patiala in 2019. The allegations against Thind are that based on a note from him on January 25, 2019, the state’s counsel told the court that the secretary, transport authority, has no authority to frame a joint time-table of buses, whereas in December 2018, the state transport commissioner, asked the secretaries to frame/approve a joint a time-table.It was also alleged that the reply in the high court was handed over without getting it vetted from the advocate general office. The government counsel made a statement before the court based on the reply in question, which resulted in the high court passing a stay order in the matter involving private transporters. This further resulted in undue benefit to the private transporters, as per the government. Thind had told the court that the draft reply was prepared in view of urgency, but it was not filed. The reply also referred to December 2018 instructions. Thus, he cannot be held responsible for the stay order. The government had informed the court that after consideration of his reply to the chargesheet, the inquiry officer was appointed on August 2021 and disciplinary proceedings were on. Thus, it is not appropriate for the court to interfere with the matter at this stage. The government also said that the adverse remarks recorded in the annual confidential report have been ordered to be treated as advisory. Dismissing the plea, the court observed that normally a chargesheet is not to be quashed at the threshold. “It is the function of disciplinary authority to find out the correctness or truth of charges, thus to deal with the chargesheet on merits at such an early stage would be premature, unless the same has been issued by a person lacking competency or jurisdiction,” the court said, adding that fair treatment has been accorded to Thind and it cannot be said that respondents are bent upon to victimise him.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/wrong-info-on-route-permits-hc-dismisses-pcs-officer-s-plea-against-chargesheet-101640719801873.html
29-12-2021||Chandigarh||HC issues notice to vet varsity on visually disabled candidate’s plea||Chandigarh: The Punjab and Haryana high court has sought response from Guru Angad Dev University of Veterinary Science and Animal Husbandry, Ludhiana, on a plea challenging its prospectus for bachelor’s degree courses. The high court acted on the plea of one Abhiraj Mahajan of Pathankot, who is suffering with disability of low vision. According to the plea, students suffering with disability of low vision and some other disabilities were debarred for admission to undergraduate programme, which as per the plea are against the provisions of Persons with Disability Act, 2016.Mahajan’s counsel Kapil Kakkar said student was suffering with 10% disability of low vision and had applied for admission to a course. He was placed second in the merit list. However, when he went to attend the counselling on December 14, he was told that he cannot be considered for admission as there was specific bar in the prospectus. The clause in the prospectus is violative of Section 3 of the Disability Act which clearly shows that no discrimination can be made in matter of admission and providing employment, Kakkar added. The response has been sought by January 31.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/hc-issues-notice-to-vet-varsity-on-visually-disabled-candidate-s-plea-101640719623758.html
29-12-2021||Chandigarh||Kaithal DC terminates revenue department clerk||Kaithal deputy commissioner (DC) Pradeep Dahiya ordered the dismissal of a clerk posted in the revenue department in Dhand.As per an official statement issued by the deputy commissioner’s office, clerk Kuldeep Singh was suspended as he had allegedly provided false information in the application form and claimed that nobody from his family is a government employee.But during verification of documents, it was found that his brother is also in government service and is posted as a clerk since March 16, 2018 in Palwal district.The DC has also recommended criminal action against him.Kuldeep Singh, of Teontha village in Kaithal district, had joined duty after being selected for the post for clerk and further got posted in the office of DC on September 21, 2020. He had five additional marks as nobody from his family is in government services.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/kaithal-dc-terminates-revenue-department-clerk-101640719622021.html
29-12-2021||Lucknow||Unwarranted behaviour of lawyers can erode faith of public in judicial system: High Court||The Lucknow bench of the Allahabad high court has pointed out that the unwarranted and uncalled behaviour of lawyers has the potential of eroding the faith and trust of public in judicial system. Justice Devendra Kumar Upadhyay and Justice Narendra Kumar Johari made this observation on December 24 while disposing of an old contempt petition against 12 lawyers of Gonda district. Out of them, only six are alive today, and all are senior citizens. “What we notice in present times is the uncalled for and unwarranted conduct/behaviour of lawyers which has the potential of eroding faith and trust of public in the judicial system,” said the court. The petition was filed on the basis of a letter written on August 17, 2001, by then district judge of Gonda to then registrar general of the high court to initiate contempt proceedings against 12 lawyers. In the letter, it was alleged that these lawyers were involved in unruly behaviour on the court campus on November 14, 2000, and December 1, 2000. The case was registered in 2001, but notices were issued to the lawyers in 2011. During the hearing of the case, the counsel for lawyers pointed out that the case was based on a hearsay story and since the inception of this suit, six out of 12 lawyers had passed away. He also apprised the court that the lawyers, who are alive, have tendered an unconditional apology to the court. After considering all aspects of the case, the court observed: “Considering all these aspects of the matter, especially the fact that the respondents have tendered their unconditional apology and that they are very old practising lawyers and also that Contempt Petition No.1463 of 2002 has already been disposed of without even issuing notices, we are of the opinion that this matter now needs to be given a quietus.” “We, thus, do not think it necessary to pursue this matter further. We accept the apology tendered by the respondents and discharge the notices of contempt issued against them,” said the court. “However, before parting with the matter, we would like to put on record our anguish and concern emanating from the reports which this court receives almost on daily basis about the conduct and behaviour of the advocates,” observed the court.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/unwarranted-behaviour-of-lawyers-can-erode-faith-of-public-in-judicial-system-high-court-101640719562795.html
29-12-2021||Other||Killers of Etah trader still untraceable, cops recover car used by criminals||Agra Aligarh police are yet to trace the killers involved in the murder of a cement trader from Etah, who was shot dead on Monday evening on Ramghat road in Aligarh. Meanwhile, the police have recovered the car used in the crime and constituted five police teams to nab the assailants. The car used by criminals was traced near a canal in Harduaganj area late on Monday night. It was looted from Farah police station area of Mathura district on October 14, police said.“We have recovered more than 100 CCTV footages and they are being scanned to find clues about the shooters. With the matter being inter-district issue, police teams are also being sent at all possible spots to nab the criminals. Five police teams have been constituted and those involved the murder will be soon behind the bars,” said Kailanidhi Naithani, senior superintendent of police (SSP), Aligarh, on Tuesday. “The trader Sandeep Gupta was in his car with his driver and an employee while his both gunners, private and that of police, were not with him. They were in separate car which also had manager of Gupta. Suspects are being interrogated to reach the culprits,” said Kuldeep Singh Gunawat, SP (City), Aligarh. Police were primarily working out on enmity theory and believed that it was the work of hired shooters chasing the victim trader, he added. On Monday evening, the cement trader Sandeep Gupta, who was in his car, stopped for a while on his way, when the accused, three to four in number, in another car got down and fired at the trader from close range hitting him on face and neck. The trader was rushed to trauma center in Aligarh but was declared dead. The trader’s body was sent for postmortem and it reached Aliganj town on Tuesday. The traders and shopkeepers in Aliganj were much agitated and closed markets to protest the killing. There were road jams also lodged by the angry mob.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/killers-of-etah-trader-still-untraceable-cops-recover-car-used-by-criminals-101640719503711.html
29-12-2021||Noida||Noida: Register criminal cases against those who dump untreated sewage, says NGT||In a strongly worded judgment on December 23 against untreated sewage and waste being dumped in Kondli and Shahdara drains , the National Green Tribunal (NGT) asked the Inspector General of Meerut zone to register criminal cases against the violators.The green court also reprimanded the Noida authority for providing misleading information and allowing occupancy in societies that have not set up their sewage treatment plants yet.“It has come out during interaction with the CEO, Noida, that as against the claim of STPs of 72 out of 95 group housing societies being functional, the stand of state PCB is that only 12 were compliant. There is also a contradiction in the narrative in the report of the Noida authority on the one hand and details mentioned in the annexures to the report,” said the NGT order.The order said the court was informed by the Noida authority that partial occupancy certificates are issued by the authority to facilitate builders to sell flats, which, according to NGT “prima facie amounts to offence”.“This policy will have to be reviewed to effectuate the mandate under the EC/Consent conditions read with Water and EP Acts. Though STPs were required to be functional before occupancy, they are either not installed or are non-functional or non-compliant. Compliance is proposed in the distant future extending upto four years, without specifying the accountability/liability of the PP responsible for the situation for continuing violation in the meantime. Granting partial or completion certificates must be compliant with EC/Consent conditions,” the court said.The court also pointed out that the reports submitted by Noida authority during the hearings seem to show “compliance” but that has not been the case. On the contrary, the reports seem to portray violations of environmental norms by developers.“It is shown that various sewer lines are lying choked or/are overflowing, which obviously results in water pollution. This situation can hardly be held to be satisfactory, though colour of compliance has been given, which, on scrutiny, can hardly be called compliance. On the other hand, this amounts to absolving the non-compliant Project Proponents (PPs) of statutory obligations under the EC/Consents and profiteer by law violation which inter-alia amounts to an offence under Section 3 of the Prevention of Money Laundering Act, 2002 (PMLA Act, 2002),” said the order.The NGT was hearing a case filed in 2017 by residents of Sector 137 in Noida claiming that untreated sewage was being dumped by Delhi, Noida and Ghaziabad in the Kondli and Shahdara drains, polluting these drains and irrigation canals that eventually merge with the Yamuna river.Noida authority officials explained that more work than was reported to the NGT has been done within the last six months, hence has not been highlighted in the order.“There are 97 Group Housing Societies in the city, all of which are now connected to the central sewage network. Over 70 of these are fully functional and compliant now. The rest actually have technical issues. Four Amrapali projects were given occupancy because of court orders and 11 smaller, older societies have submitted that they do not have the space for separate STPs. Others have been given a deadline of January for the completion of work. The court appreciated a lot of our work during the final hearing. Whatever gaps remain, we will fulfill soon,” said Ritu Maheshwari, CEO, Noida authority.The NGT asked the authority to impose penalties that act as a “deterrent” against the dumping of untreated waste and use the amount for fixing environmental issues. According to the order, “Compensation has to have a deterrent element having regard to financial capacity so that the law violation is not encouraged. Compensation amount needs to be credited to a separate amount for restoration and improvement of the environment.”It also asked the authority to prepare a time-bound plan for connecting all 30 of its sewage drains, only 12 of which seem to be properly functional as of now.Meanwhile, the Uttar Pradesh Pollution Control Board (UPPCB) has been asked to maintain the water quality of the irrigation canal (Kondli drain) as per the Water Act. It also has to ensure the regular monitoring of performance of terminal STPs as well as of group housing societies STPs. The UPPCB will also ensure that Khoda Nagar Palika sets up the required STP.Utsav Sharma, regional officer, UPPCB, said, “We have already imposed penalties on the Khoda Nagar Palika and are trying to ensure compliance in the area. We will ensure all NGT orders are followed.”Delhi authorities have been asked to ensure that no waste water enters Noida from Kondli.According to the applicant of the case, Abhisht Kusum Gupta, a resident of Sector 137, Noida, “This is a path-breaking judgment. While most authorities have taken action to improve the situation, Khoda Vikas Parishad is the major cause of concern. It is discharging 20 MLD of sewage water in the drains, because of which whatever efforts are made by Noida becomes nil and leads to much wastage of resources. Why should Noida scavenge the dirt of other bodies? This area needs more focus.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/noida-register-criminal-cases-against-those-who-dump-untreated-sewage-says-ngt-101640719501960.html
29-12-2021||Chandigarh||Haryana to launch age verification drive to help people without birth proof||An exercise will be launched to verify the date of birth of people not having any certificate as proof, chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar said on Tuesday.Khattar said there are many people without any proof to prove their date of birth even though they will be reaching 60 years of age and becoming eligible for old-age pension.Under the Parivar Pehchan Patra (PPP) scheme, the state government plans to automatically start old-age pension of eligible people who turn 60.The chief minister said the Haryana government will launch the second phase of antodaya fairs across state from January 7 in wake of successfully organising 156 such fairs in which 90,000 of 1.5 lakh identified families took part.The objective is to encourage economically-weaker families to take up self-employment. The loans of many people who came to these melas have also been approved, Khattar said during a video conference with deputy commissioners (DCs) and additional DCs.While giving instructions to the ADCs, Khattar said PPP scheme is being appreciated and discussed across country and people from other states are coming in to study the model.He said all ADCs should carry-out this job with sensitivity, saying efforts have to be made to make the entire district self-reliant, take youth, not towards employment so that they are in line of job-givers instead of job-seekers.The chief minister said the work of the third phase of PPP scheme has been completed. The work on the fourth phase will start soon. In the coming days, the benefits of many schemes will be delivered through PPP.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/haryana-to-launch-age-verification-drive-to-help-people-without-birth-proof-101640719441966.html
29-12-2021||Chandigarh||Cabinet approves amendment in Punjab co-op audit service rules||Chandigarh : The Punjab cabinet on Tuesday approved amendment in Punjab Cooperative Audit (Group-B) Service Rules, 2016, to ensure efficiency in functioning of the cooperation department. The amendment in the provisions due to restructuring of the department would provide for direct/promotional avenues to the posts of audit officer, superintendent grade-2, senior auditor, inspector audit and senior assistant. After the approval of officer committee, the restructuring of the department was done at the cabinet meeting held on December 30, 2020, in which the posts of inspectors were reduced from 774 to 654, post of senior auditors were increased from 32 to 107. Likewise, the posts of audit officer were increased from 22 to 24 and that of superintendent grade-2 from 16 to 22 and of senior assistant from 24 to 34 after the approval of Punjab government order issued on April 29, 2021, according to an official release. Sub-tehsil Aur in SBS Nagar approved Keeping in view the convenience and benefit of the general public, who have to travel long distances to Nawanshahar tehsil in order to get their daily works done, it also decided to accord the status of sub-tehsil to Aur town which, at present, is a part of tehsil/sub-division Nawanshahar (SBS Nagar). The new sub-tehsil of Aur would comprise two kanungo circles, 18 patwar circles and 41 villages would be spread over a total area of 11,171 hectares. Further, the requisite staff, including one post of naib-tehsildar, 3 posts each of clerk and peon, besides one post of peon-cum-mali has also been approved for the newly carved out sub-tehsil.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/cabinet-approves-amendment-in-punjab-co-op-audit-service-rules-101640719321858.html
29-12-2021||Chandigarh||Three SFJ sympathisers arrested, pro-Khalistan material seized in Patiala||Patiala : Police have arrested three people, including a woman, for allegedly distributing pro-Khalistan and anti-India material in Patiala district, police said on Tuesday.Senior superintendent of police (SSP) Harcharan Singh Bhullar said two persons, identified as Jagmeet Singh, 28, and Ravinder Singh, 23, of Jasra village of Fatehgarh Sahib district, were arrested for allegedly preaching in favour of Khalistan at a place near Banur area.They were visiting various religious and public places and distributing some registration forms to people to vote for a referendum to form Khalistan, he said. They are writing slogans and pasting pro-Khalistan posters at religious and public places,” he said. The pro-Khalistan material was being provided by Jagmeet Singh’s mother Jasveer Kaur and she was also arrested, the SSP said, adding that a large quantity of pro-Khalistan material was recovered from the possession of the accused.Notably, the US-based Sikhs for Justice, a pro-Khalistan group, had pushed for a referendum as part of its separatist agenda.Bhullar said initial interrogation of the accused revealed that the kingpin of the gang was Jasveer Kaur and her husband Kuldeep Singh, who works as a superintendent at Punjab Roadways.A case under Sections 153A (promoting enmity between different groups on the grounds of religion), 505 (statements conducive to public mischief) and 120B (criminal conspiracy) of IPC has been registered. The SSP said Jasveer Kaur’s brother-in-law Manjit Singh was the area commander of the terrorist organisation Babbar Khalsa International (Sukhdev Babbar Group). Jasveer Kaur, Jagmeet Singh and Ravinder Singh were produced in a court which sent them to six-day police custody.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/three-sfj-sympathisers-arrested-pro-khalistan-material-seized-in-patiala-101640719090398.html
29-12-2021||Other||Prayagraj: Transgender high priest calls for ban on Sunny Leone’s latest video album||PRAYAGRAJ: Maha Mandaleshwar (high priest) of Kinnar Akhada, Swami Himangi Sakhi Maa, has demanded a ban on Sunny Leone’s latest video album, accusing the Bollywood actor of hurting religious sentiments of Hindus by performing an “obscene” dance on the iconic song “Madhuban mein Radhika nache”. She also sought strict action against the singer, artists and the music label responsible for “obscene” picturisation and release of the devotional song. The music video Madhuban was released by Saregama Music on last Wednesday and features Sunny Leone in the party number sung by Kanika Kapoor and Arindam Chakraborty. The song was originally sung by Mohammed Rafi for the 1960 film Kohinoor. It has received around 10 million views of YouTube. During her visit to Sangam city on Tuesday, Swami Himangi Sakhi of country’s only monastic order of transgender seers said that people of today’s new generation should learn the meaning of Radha Rani dancing in Madhuban in devotion to lord Krishna. The song was originally sung by Mohammed Rafi for film Kohinoor (1960). It has been beautifully picturised in it but the artists have ended up shooting it in an obscene manner which is unacceptable,” she added. Talking to media persons at a guest house in Naini, Himangi Sakhi said that such videos should be banned and the actor along with others involved in it must tender a public apology. “The song should also be deleted from YouTube and other such online mediums. We cannot tolerate obscenity in the name of ‘Radha Rani’. The dance video has hurt the religious sentiments of the entire Hindu community,” she claimed. The Maha Mandaleshwar also warned against using Sunny Leone for picturising devotional songs in any manner. “She has acted in numerous indecent films and now she is trying to associate herself with devotional songs, which is not right. I demand that Saregama India should immediately delete the song or we will move court against the company,” she warned.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/prayagraj-transgender-high-priest-calls-for-ban-on-sunny-leone-s-latest-video-album-101640719088440.html
29-12-2021||Chandigarh||BJP’s Gupta and JJP’s Babli sworn-in as Haryana ministers||Two Haryana MLAs – BJP’s Kamal Gupta and JJP’s Devender Singh Babli – were sworn in as cabinet ministers by governor Bandaru Dattatraya at Raj Bhawan on Tuesday.The state government now has 14 members in the council of ministers. The newly-inducted ministers are likely to be allocated portfolios by Wednesday. Their induction will also necessitate shuffling of portfolios. Deputy chief minister Dushyant Singh Chautala, who holds at least seven top-of-the-line portfolios, will certainly have to shed a couple for his party colleague Devender Babli.BJP’s Kamal Gupta, a medic who was chief parliamentary secretary (CPS) health and medical education in the previous BJP government will be a contender for the health portfolio held by state home minister Anil Vij.Gupta took the oath of office and secrecy in Sanskrit while Babli read it out in Hindi.Constitution allows only 13 ministers in HaryanaAs per Article 164 (1A) of the Constitution, there can be a maximum of 13 ministers including the chief minister in the Haryana council of ministers.The constitutional provision says the total number of ministers, including the chief minister, in the council of ministers in a state shall not exceed 15% of the total number of members of the legislative assembly. This implies that Haryana, which has a 90 member House, cannot have more than 13 ministers including the chief minister.However, successive governments have been flouting the constitutional cap by rounding off the 13.5 figure and inducting 14 ministers, including the chief minister.Following Tuesday’s inductions, the BJP now has 10 ministers including chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar, while its post-poll ally JJP has three ministers including deputy chief minister Dushyant Singh Chautala. Rania MLA Ranjit Singh is the lone independent MLA inducted as a minister.In the 2019 assembly elections, the BJP won only 40 of the 90 seats, thus falling short of a simple majority. Subsequently, it formed the government with the support of 10 JJP MLAs and independents.Caste equation and political compulsionsThe BJP has inducted Hisar MLA Kamal Gupta in the cabinet to give representation to the Vaish community and Hisar district. The cabinet did not have a single minister from the Vaish community and Hisar before Gupta’s induction.The JJP, on the other hand, has tried to contain the dissent among its MLAs by inducting Babli, a prominent dissenting voice along with Narnaund MLA Ram Kumar Gautam. The induction of Babli, a Jat, also holds political significance for the JJP since the party wants to strengthen its support base in Fatehabad, a district bordering Dushyant’s home district Sirsa.His induction in the cabinet will also mean a downer for state BJP’s former president Subhash Barala, whom Babli defeated by over 50,000 votes from Tohana assembly constituency in 2019 polls.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/bjps-gupta-and-jjp-s-babli-sworn-in-as-haryana-ministers-101640719086905.html
29-12-2021||Lucknow||Met forecasts more rain, drop in temp across Uttar Pradesh||Indian Meteorological Department (IMD) issued a warning of more rain in Uttar Pradesh districts over the next 24 hours on Tuesday. Based on the forecast, an alert was sounded by the state meteorological department. Over a dozen districts of West UP reported rain showers on Tuesday. The state capital also recorded rain showers in some parts. The minimum temperature increased slightly in Lucknow. The minimum temperature was recorded at 12.4 degrees Celsius on Tuesday, which is five degrees above normal. The minimum temperature is expected to drop in the coming days following rain, according to experts. “The western disturbance as a cyclonic circulation over East Afghanistan and adjoining Pakistan now lies over the south of Haryana and neighbourhood states between 1.5km and 4.5km above. The trough now runs from the northeast Rajasthan to Vidarbha across West Madhya. These conditions will lead to rain in Uttar Pradesh districts as the cyclone passes over the state,” reads the forecast issued by IMD. “Under the influence of above meteorological conditions, scattered, light to moderate rain, thundershowers with hail storm are very likely at isolated places, over the southern and central part of Uttar Pradesh on December 28. Scattered, light to moderate rain, thundershowers are very likely at isolated places; over the northern and central part of Uttar Pradesh on December 29,” as per the warning. Director of state meteorological department JP Gupta said, “We have alerted the district authorities across the state regarding the forecast. We are also monitoring the change in weather closely. The rain will lead to a drop in minimum temperature across UP in coming days.” While the night temperature across UP stayed around 10 degrees Celsius, the day temperature recorded a marked drop. The day temperature in Lucknow was recorded at 18.5 degrees Celsius which is four degrees below normal. Similarly in Kanpur and Agra, the day temperature dropped to 17.2 and 17.3 degrees Celsius, respectively.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/met-forecasts-more-rain-drop-in-temp-across-uttar-pradesh-101640719084707.html
29-12-2021||Noida||Ghaziabad residents experiencing ‘poor’ to ‘severe’ air quality for two months||Ghaziabad has been recording “poor” to “severe” air quality over the past couple of months. The city last experienced “moderate” air on October 26.An air quality index (AQI) reading between 0 and 50 is considered “good”, 51 and 100 “satisfactory”, 101 and 200 “moderate”, 201 and 300 “poor”, 301 and 400 “very poor”, and 401 and 500 “severe”.This winter has been Ghaziabad’s worst in terms of pollution for the past three years. According to official data from the UP pollution control board (UPPCB), Ghaziabad experienced 17 “moderate” days during the three winter months of October, November and December in 2019 and four in 2020.Records indicate that this year, the city experienced only 10 “moderate” days, all in the month of October. So far, pollution levels have failed to come down below the “poor” category in November and December so far.“The pollution levels remain high. Initially, it was due to the impact of stubble burning in neighbouring states during the Diwali festival and now it is due to meteorological conditions and local pollutants. On our part, we have made efforts to trace and penalise those who violate norms. We carry out regular field inspections to check local violations,” said Utsav Sharma, regional officer of UPPCB.According to 4pm air quality index released by the Central Pollution Control Board, Ghaziabad on Tuesday recorded an AQI reading of 286 in the higher end of the “poor” category while Greater Noida and Noida recorded AQI readings of 288 and 274, respectively, both in the “poor” category.Ghaziabad on Tuesday witnessed a drizzle, which UPPCB officials said may help bring down suspended pollutants in the air and improve air quality on Wednesday.Ghaziabad is also listed under the 16 non-attainment cities in Uttar Pradesh and funds of about ₹61.5 crore ( ₹615 million) from the Fifteenth Finance Commission were allotted to the city exclusively for the purchase of equipment and taking measures to improve air quality. The funds were allocated in December last year as well as in July this year, said officials.The officials of Ghaziabad municipal corporation said due to some delays on account of the lockdown, agencies were not getting the required supply in time.“We have floated all the tenders and almost 75% of the different measures and equipment have been taken up or received. It is likely that the rest of the equipment will arrive within a week,” said MS Tanwar, municipal commissioner.Officials said that the list of procured equipment/works was not readily available.Using the funds, the corporation planned to get 30 big air filters and put them in public places; six higher capacity anti-smog guns with a capacity of 6,000 litres each; revamp 200 parks; convert 579 vehicles to CNG and develop a city forest near the New Bus Adda Metro station, among other measures.The funds were also to be utilised for the paving of dusty roads with greenery and stones.Environmentalists said that the pollution scenario in the city has gone from bad to worse over the past several years.“If meteorological conditions and external pollution sources cannot be controlled, special efforts are needed to keep a tight check on local pollution sources. Ghaziabad remains high on PM2.5, which is largely attributed to vehicular emission. Further, the construction activities and the bad condition of roads have also aided the city’s pollution levels. If there is no strict enforcement at the local level, the conditions will remain similar the next season too,” said Akash Vashishtha, a city-based environmentalist and lawyer.PM 2.5 is fine, inhalable particulate matter with a diameter of 2.5 microns. Experts consider it the primary pollutant in the region.
29-12-2021||Chandigarh||Channi extends ₹17,000 per acre relief to basmati growers||Chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi on Tuesday decided to extend relief of ₹17,000 per acre to basmati growers whose crops have been damaged due to hailstorm during the past kharif season. The CM took the decision after marathon discussion with the Kisan Majdoor Sangharsh Committee (KMSC), which also announced to take back its “rail roko” agitation. During the discussions with the KMSC delegation led by its state president Satnam Singh Pannu on a host of issues, Channi urged them to shun the path of agitation, stating that his government was already sensitized to their hardships and concerns. “The stir has already adversely impacted the supply of urea and DAP across the state, accentuating their woes especially during the current Rabi season,” he told them. They also deliberated at length the cases registered against farmers at Delhi and by Railway Protection Force during farmers’ agitation, debt waiver, providing jobs and compensation to the families of the farmers who sacrificed their lives during the agitation, compensation for crop damage, crop insurance and making the payment process easy for “abadkars” (farmers who have been tilling the land in occupation since long without any ownership rights). Channi also assured the delegation that he would soon take up the matter with home minister Amit Shah for prompt withdrawal of cases registered against farmers by Delhi Police as well as the RPF during the yearlong agitation against black farm laws. Acceding to another demand of the delegation, the CM said to ensure farmers get remunerative price of their produce, the state government would soon come out with a policy for covering all those crops under the state MSP, which are currently not covered under MSP regime by the Centre. He also welcomed the idea of delegation to create a Basmati Trading Corporation to ensure export of basmati across the globe with twin objective of providing remunerative prices for their crops and to give a major push towards crop diversification. On both issues, the CM asked chief secretary Anirudh Tewari to conduct a detailed study before taking a final call on this count. Agriculture Minister Randeep Singh Nabha, ACS, revenue, VK Janjua, financial commissioner, agriculture DK Tiwari and director, agriculture, Gurvinder Singh were also present.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/channi-extends-17-000-per-acre-relief-to-basmati-growers-101640718901751.html
29-12-2021||Chandigarh||Two new Omicron cases detected in Haryana||Two fresh cases of the Omicron variant of Covid-19 were among total 126 positive cases of Covid detected in Haryana on Tuesday, according to the state health bulletin.Meanwhile, the state also recorded one fatality in Kurukshetra, increasing the toll to 1,0063.The number of Omicron cases in state has risen to 14 eves as active Omicron cases are seven and as many patients infected by this new variant have recovered. The active cases of Covid-19 jumped to 627 on Tuesday from 140 on November 30 when the state had recorded 17 Covid cases.As per the bulletin, 126 new cases were detected of the 38,192 samples tested in the past 24 hours.The highest of 76 Covid positive cases were recorded in Gurugram, followed by 22 in Faridabad, 12 in Ambala, six in Panchkula, four in Karnal, two in Panipat and one each in Hisar, Sonepat, Yamunanagar and Kurukshetra.As many as 3.44 lakh doses (2.38 lakh people with the second dose) of Covid vaccination were administered across state on Tuesday, pushing the cumulative coverage of Covid vaccination to 3.34 crore.Caution against OmicronHaryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar on Tuesday directed all deputy commissioners (DCs) to be vigilant about the new Omicron variant. He said every person coming from abroad should be kept under watch and if necessary, they should be home-isolated.The chief minister directed the DCs that from January 1, the only people who have received both the dose of Covid vaccination should be allowed to move in public places.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/two-new-omicron-cases-detected-in-haryana-101640718841722.html
29-12-2021||Lucknow||New Covid cases double up in Uttar Pradesh in last 24 hours||LUCKNOW: New Covid-19 cases doubled up in the last 24-hours in Uttar Pradesh with 80 fresh cases being reported on Tuesday. There were 40 fresh cases on Monday, health department officials said. “In all, 1, 93, 896 Covid samples were tested in the past 24-hours and 80 of them came positive while 11 patients recovered,” said Amit Mohan Prasad, additional chief secretary, medical health. The UP has till now reported 17, 11,049 Covid cases and 22,915 deaths due to the virus. Gautam Buddha Nagar reported a maximum 28 cases and Ghaziabad 12, taking the total number of active cases in the state to 392, a level close to August 22 this year when there were 373 active cases. Among the 80 new Covid cases, 11 were reported from Lucknow. Two persons who had returned back from Dubai via Bihar and five patients who went to see doctor tested positive, two of them residents of Gomti Nagar and Gudamba. A 14-year-old boy and a woman from Karkori are also among new Covid cases. “Lucknow has so far reported 23, 8,996 Covid cases. At present, 69 active cases are under treatment in the state capital and majority of them are in home isolation,” said Dr Abhishek Shukla, secretary general of Association of International Doctors. District health education officer, Lucknow, Yogesh Raghuvanshi said that authorities in Bihar had been updated about the new Covid cases. Gautam Buddha Nagar has 82 active cases, Ghaziabad 66, Meerut 18 and Agra 15, he added. Vax certificate must to appear in exam at National PG College Amidst spike in Covid-19 cases, the National PG College’s administration has made it mandatory for students to get their vaccination certificates before appearing in the upcoming semester exams from January 5, according to a notice issued by the college on Tuesday. “The third and fifth semester examinations of UG are scheduled to start in the college from January 5. All the students appearing in the above examinations have been asked to bring their vaccination certificate of either one or both doses with them,” read the notice. An information to this effect was also circulated on the college’s notice board and its website on December 21, stating that students must carry their vaccination certificate along with their admit card in order to appear in the examination. “Students without the vaccination certificates will not be allowed to appear in the examination,” the notice said. Principal of National PG College, Devendra Kumar Singh said, “The decision has been taken in view of the rising Covid-19 cases. Close to 90% students of the third and the fifth semesters are vaccinated. We hope that the remaining students will also take their jab in time and ensure safety of self and others from Covid-19 infection.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/new-covid-cases-double-up-in-uttar-pradesh-in-last-24-hours-101640718661740.html
29-12-2021||Noida||Ghaziabad to get first batch of 15 low-floor AC e-buses on January 5 next year||Ghaziabad: Officials of the Uttar Pradesh urban development department on Tuesday said that it will roll out the first batch of 15 low-floor air conditioned (AC) electric buses in Ghaziabad on January 5 next year.Ghaziabad is set to get 50 such buses. which are likely to be rolled out in several phases, under this project. During an event in Lucknow on October 5, Prime Minister Narendra Modi flagged off 75 such buses under the Faster Adoption and Manufacturing of Hybrid and Electric vehicle (FAME II) for seven cities, including Ghaziabad, Lucknow, Kanpur, Varanasi, Prayagraj, Gorakhpur and Jhansi. “The state urban development department has issued a communication in which they have set the tentative date to start the e-bus service on January 5, 2022. Ghaziabad will initially receive 15 e-buses, which will run on four designated routes. There is a charging station at Akbarpur-Behrampur in Vijay Nagar with 12 bays for charging,” said AK Singh, regional manager of UP State Road Transport Corporation (UPSRTC).Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath is likely to flag off the bus services virtually, said the officials. “Each of the buses will have a capacity to cover a distance of 120 kilometres in a single charge. The buses will have an option for charging from a single point, which will take nearly two hours for being fully charged, at the 12 bays. They will also have a double point charging facility, which will take just one hour to fully charge the batteries,” Singh added. An entity named ‘Ghaziabad City Transport Services Limited’ has also been formed to oversee the operations of the e-buses, which will be the first state-run city transport service in Ghaziabad. The entity will be headed by Meerut commissioner Surendra Singh, and officers from the UPSRTC and the Ghaziabad municipal corporation (GMC). AK Singh has been appointed the chief executive officer of the entity.The 15 e-buses, which will run on four designated routes being finalised, will cover a distance of 88 kilometres per trip. The first route over 33 kilometres (one side) will connect Anand Vihar to Muradnagar, the second 20km route from Anand Vihar to Raj Nagar’s ALT Centre, the third 20km route from Dilshad Garden to Govindpuram, and the fourth 15km route will connect various points from Tila Morh to New Bus Stand. The minimum and maximum fares for the bus ride, on any route, has been fixed at ₹10 and ₹40 per passenger, respectively. In August 2019, the Ministry of Heavy Industries sanctioned 5,595 e-buses to 64 cities in different states for intra-city and inter-city bus services, and 600 of the total buses were approved for 11 cities in Uttar Pradesh including 50 for Ghaziabad. 
29-12-2021||Noida||Fresh guidelines for Gautam Budh Nagar schools amid rise in coronavirus cases||The Uttar Pradesh government has issued fresh Covid guidelines to be followed by all schools in the state, said officials on Tuesday.The new Standard Operating Procedures (SOPs) include thermal screening of students, proper sanitisation of schools, and special vigilance for elderly teachers and educators coming to the school for physical classes.Dharamvir Singh, district inspector of schools (DIOS) of Gautam Budh Nagar, issued orders to all the private and government schools in the district regarding the new directives. Government schools in Uttar Pradesh reopened secondary classes on August 16 and primary classes on September 1 this year.According to the government directives, the Ministry of Education, Government of India, issued orders for modifications of the existing SOPs or guidelines for physical classes.“The state government has directed schools to continue regular classes, but with stringent implementation of Covid protocols and guidelines in order to control the spread of Covid at educational institutions,” said Singh.According to the Covid guidelines, thermal screening of every student will be done before entering the school, and no student or teacher will be allowed to enter the school without wearing a mask.Students will be allowed to enter the school only with the permission of their parents. Schools will have to take consent from the parents before students can start attending classes. Schools will have to arrange online classes for students who do not wish to attend physical classes. School managements will also have to sanitise the premises every day, before the arrival of the students and after closing the schools. Hand sanitising will have to be improved in schools, and activities like prayer meetings, cultural and sports events are allowed only with social distancing protocols.There are specific guidelines for elderly employees of the schools and those suffering from chronic diseases as they are at a higher risk of being infected. The education department has ordered all the schools to be vigilant towards old aged employees, pregnant women and those who suffer from serious diseases because of this, said the officials.“Schools will not involve such employees at work where they have to be in direct contact with the students. If any student or employee has any symptom like cough, cold, or fever, schools will have to inform the district education department immediately and get medical attention for those people,” according to the order.It has also directed the district education department to seek a report from all schools regarding full vaccination of their teachers and employees. “Schools have to submit reports about full vaccination of their teachers to the district education department by next week. Directions regarding the same have been issued to private and government schools in the district,” said Singh.Medical experts, meanwhile, said that the order came as a “precautionary measure”. “As children up to 18 years of age have not been vaccinated so far, the education department has ordered special precautions in schools. Parents should also educate their children about the importance of following Covid protocols. With the latest order, it is the government’s effort to control the spread of the virus and avoid affecting education for the students,” said Dr Sunil Awana, president of Indian Medical Association, Noida chapter.Manoj Kataria, founder of Gautam Budh Nagar Parents Welfare Society (GPWS) said, “Parents are anxious to send their children to schools as Covid cases are on the rise. While students of secondary classes can be trusted to follow the Covid guidelines, many parents of primary school students have not given their consent to send their child to attend physical classes. We hope the district education department can enforce the guidelines stringently”.
29-12-2021||Pune||HC directs chief secretary to conduct hearing in PCB’s ₹459 crore tax dues case||Pune: Acting on the orders of Bombay High Court, the chief secretary of Maharashtra has called the Pune Cantonment Board (PCB) chief executive officer (CEO) for a hearing at his office on January 11 in connection with the pending Goods and Services Tax (GST) dues of over ₹459 crore. After hearing counsel for parties in the case, the court has granted relief prayed for by the petitioners and the PCB has been given an opportunity to make representation within a period of two weeks to the chief Secretary. Maharashtra has been directed to dispose of the representation within two months after giving an opportunity to the petitioners of being heard. PCB is facing the worst financial crisis in its history with developmental works worth crores of rupees being hit due to fund shortage, including basic work like maintenance of gardens and ground level health department staff. Prior to 2013, Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) had been collecting octroi and PCB was getting its share from PMC. Subsequently, the state government abolished octroi with effect from April 1 2013 and octroi compensation to the board was stopped. As per government of Maharashtra notification in 2013, PMC started collecting Local Body Tax (LBT) instead of octroi within its jurisdiction with effect from April 2013. There is no revenue sharing agreement between PMC and PCB from April 1, 2013. Under Section 71 of the Cantonments Act, 2006, the Ministry of Defence (MOD) authorised the board to impose LBT through a resolution dated June 4, 2015 and the board was able to generate revenue to the tune of ₹88 crore per annum. On April 12, 2017, GST was enacted by the central government and implemented with effect from July 1, 2017. The introduction of GST has resulted in a subsummation of taxes, including octroi, LBT, entry tax, entertainment tax, which were earlier used to be collected by local bodies cum authorities and or PCB. This has led to considerable revenue loss to the Board. PCB has been consistently taking up the matter with higher authorities, state and central governments for obtaining due share of GST. The matter has also been taken up by the principal director, Defence Estates; Southern Command, Pune; General Officer Commanding-in-Chief (GOC-in-C), Southern Command, Pune with the state government of Maharashtra for release of GST Compensation. The elected members of the board had also met the finance minister with a request for releasing the GST compensation share. But despite vigorous efforts made till date the due share of GST compensation has not been provided to the board, Pune. Due to annual revenue loss to the tune of ₹90 crore, a self-sufficient cantonment board has become deficit. Due to non-receipt of GST compensation, the board is finding it difficult to perform the statutory duties as per the provisions of the Cantonments Act, 2006. Meanwhile, the Directorate General of Defence Estates (DGDE), a few days ago has released a ₹19 crore non-recurring grant-in aid to the Pune, Khadki, and Dehu Road cantonment boards to help them tide off the financial crunch. Pune cantonment has been given Rs12 crore, while Khadki and Dehu Road cantonments will receive Rs3 crore and Rs4 crore. PCB CEO Amit Kumar said, “The grant is yet to be credited in the board account and will help in meeting salary expenses and other spending of the board administration.” PCB seeks compensation of revenue loss The board administration has maintained that with the introduction of GST, the tax base corresponding to LBT that PCB used to collect has subsumed under the tax base of the GST and is concurrently taxed by the Union and state governments. Since Cantonment Board has no longer access to the tax base (corresponding to LBT), under the federal structure, demand of PCB for compensation of revenue loss from the state government is justified.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/hc-directs-chief-secretary-to-conduct-hearing-in-pcb-s-rs-459-crore-tax-dues-case-101640717581650.html
29-12-2021||Pune||Self-proclaimed godman in Pune police custody for stalking woman||PUNE: A self-proclaimed godman was remanded to custody of Pimpri-Chinchwad police till Tuesday for wrongly diagnosing a woman of a medical condition and telling her that having physical relations with him would cure her. The arrested was identified as Vilas Bapurao Pawar alias Maharaj, 41, of Pimpalwadi in Patoda taluka of Beed district. The complainant woman had approached the police on December 21 stating that her husband had asked him (accused) to paralyse her from waist down. The woman told the police that he said all this on a phone call in which he further told her that she has 2-3 tumours in her stomach. He also told the woman that he knew about the marital tension between her husband and her. The man then made multiple calls to the woman and told her that she had few days to live and in order to cure her medical condition, she must have physical relations with him. “The man told the woman that she must have physical relations with a man who has a mole on his right palm and genitals. He then proceeded to send her videos of his body showing the moles he had. He then called her again and made illicit demands,” read a statement in Marathi issued by Anand Bhoite, deputy commissioner of police, Zone 2 of Pimpri-Chinchwad police. The police have registered a case under Sections 354(d) (stalking), 292, 500 (defamation), 509 (outraging a woman’s modesty) of Indian Penal Code along with Section 67(a) of Information Technology Act and Section 3 of Maharashtra Prevention and Eradication of Human Sacrifice and other Inhuman, Evil and Aghori Practices and Black Magic Act, 2013 at Wakad police station. With the help of assistant police inspector Abhijeet Jadhav, the complainant set a trap to nab the accused at Dange chowk area in Wakad. The accused confessed to have committed the crime, according to the police statement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/selfproclaimed-godman-in-pune-police-custody-for-stalking-woman-101640717103933.html
29-12-2021||Pune||Pune district admin gears up for anniversary of Bhima-Koregaon battle||PUNE The Pune district administration is gearing up for the January 1 celebration at Jaystambh in Perne Phata near Koregaon.The social welfare department, district administration, and Dr Babasaheb Ambedkar Research and Teaching Institute (BARTI) are working towards providing facilities to the people who will be visiting the Jay Stambh on the occasion of the 203rd anniversary of the battle of Bhima-Koregaon. The pillar, built by the British, will be decked up in flowers, according to a statement issued by the district information office.A set of five ambulances will be available on the spot along with 15 on standby and an emergency first-aid centre will be established. For the occasion, ten per cent of beds in nearby private hospitals have been reserved for emergency purposes and a “dry day” has been announced on both December 31 and January 1.The people visiting the memorial will have 22 spots where they can park. Additionally, traffic diversions have been announced by Pune rural and Pimpri-Chinchwad police.Traffic diversions for December 31 and January 1-The road between Chakan and Shikrapur will be completely shut down.-Heavy vehicles coming from Ahmednagar to Pune and Mumbai will be diverted to Nhavra, Pargaon, Yavat, and then Hadapsar.-Heavy vehicles heading from Pune to Ahmednagar will head towards Hadapsar through Kharadi bypass and enter Ahmednagar through Shirur.-The heavy vehicles and goods carrier trucks coming to the Alandi-Chakan area through Solapur road will be diverted to Hadapsar and then Kharadi bypass followed by Vishrantwadi before entering Alandi-Chakan.-Light vehicles heading from Mumbai towards Ahmednagar will be diverted from Vadgaon Maval towards Chakan, Khed, Pabal, and then Ahmednagar through Shirur.-Alandi Shelpimplegaon-Bahul-Sablewadi connecting roads will be completely shut for trafficPimpri-Chinchwad-People heading from Mumbai towards Pune will be diverted to Bangalore highway after Urse toll plaza and diverted towards Wakad instead of Nigdi.-People heading from Mumbai towards Talegaon will be diverted towards Dehuroad bypass road from Urse toll plaza instead of Vadgaon Phata.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pune-district-admin-gears-up-for-anniversary-of-bhima-koregaon-battle-101640717101779.html
29-12-2021||Noida||Gautam Budh Nagar, Ghaziabad account for 35% active Covid cases in Uttar Prdaesh||Officials of the health department said on Tuesday that Gautam Budh Nagar and Ghaziabad have so far reported 34.87% of the active Covid cases -- 113 out of the total 324 infections -- in Uttar Pradesh this month, till Monday.According to figures released by the state control room on Monday, Lucknow account for 19.44% (63 cases) of the active cases in Uttar Pradesh, Gautam Budh Nagar has 17.28% (56 active cases) and Ghaziabad has 17.59% (57 cases) -- the top three districts to have the maximum number of infections in the state. These three districts account for 54.32% of the total active Covid cases reported in the state, as of Monday. Dr Bhavtosh Shankhdhar, chief medical officer (CMO) of Ghaziabad, said, “Many travellers, who came from other states, have tested positive for the virus, and the others are contacts of infected patients. So, there is a rise in the number of cases reported in December, but almost all the patients are asymptomatic... We have also ramped up testing at 42 government facilities for Covid treatment, and soon, the opening and closing timings for these hospitals will be increased.” On Tuesday, Gautam Budh Nagar and Ghaziabad reported 28 and 10 fresh Covid cases, taking the active caseload to 82 and 65, respectively. “There is an increase in the cases as testing facilities in the National Capital Region (NCR) districts of Uttar Pradesh are multiple times higher than other districts in the state. With increased testing, we are tracing positive cases and containing them at an early stage. Majority of the patients are symptomatic,” said Suhas LY, district magistrate of Gautam Budh Nagar. During the peak of the second wave of Covid-19 during April and May this year, the share of the two districts -- Gautam Budh Nagar and Ghaziabad combined -- was 4.29% (14,912 active cases out of the total 310,783 cases) and 7.44% (2,761 active cases out of the total 37,044 cases) in Uttar Pradesh. Experts, meanwhile, said these two districts have a large population of working-class people, who have to travel on a daily basis. “That is why the spread of infection. The district should enhance testing facilities and trace more positive cases so that those could be contained and the spread of the infection could be checked,” said Dr Ashish Aggarwal, former president of Indian Medical Association (Ghaziabad chapter). Among the 10 fresh cases reported on Tuesday, were a 10-year-old girl from Indirapuram, who returned from the UK on December 19; four members of a family from Nehru Nagar; and one patient each from Ramprastha, Vasundhara, Crossings Republik (with a travel history from Mumbai on December 23), Shalimar Garden and Raj Nagar Extension. Six of the 10 patients are contacts of previously detected positive cases and all of them are in home isolation, said the officials.
29-12-2021||Pune||PMC to form SPV for erecting solar energy plant, purchase power from plant||PUNE: Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) has given nod to form a special purpose vehicle (SPV) to generate solar power and purchase it from the company that sets up the plant for next twenty years at a fixed rate. PMC along with the Centre’s Energy Efficiency Service Limited (EESL) plan to generate the solar power and utilise it. The plant is planned to come up in Marathwada or Vidharba region on government land. PMC standing committee chairman Hemant Rasne said, “It is decided that SPV would invest twenty percentage and 80 percentage would be raised through loan for erecting solar plant. In the twenty percentage share, PMC would bear 26 percentage and SPV would invest 74 percentage share. It is expected that the total solar project cost would be ₹250 crore. PMC would need to give Rs12.48 crore as investment. Even it is mandatory to PMC that it would need to purchase at least 51 percentage energy generated through the plant.” Rasne said, “As per existing rate, PMC is purchasing energy from Maharashtra State Electricity Distribution Company Limited at the rate of Rs7.23 per unit. It is expected that PMC would buy energy at Rs3.40 per unit from SPV and the rates would be stable for next 20 years. PMC is expecting to get energy for at least Rs1 cheaper than existing MSEDCL rates.” Electric department head Srinivas Kandul said, “The standing committee had given nod for forming SPV. Both PMC and EESL are government companies which are forming new SPV. The proposal will be placed before PMC general body for approval. Once the administrative approval is completed, the SPV would identify the government land either in Marathwada or Vidharba for erecting the plant.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pmc-to-form-spv-for-erecting-solar-energy-plant-purchase-power-from-plant-101640716801976.html
29-12-2021||Lucknow||BSP would protect ‘sanatan dharma’ : Mishra||Lucknow: Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) national general secretary Satish Chandra Mishra said on Tuesday that if voted to power, the BSP would protect ‘sanatana dharma’. It would open all the Sanskrit institutions closed under the BJP government to promote and propagate ‘sanatana dharma’, he said. Addressing a public meeting in Khajani reserved assembly constituency in Gorakhpur district, Mishra said there was pact between the Bharatiya Janata Party and Samajwadi Party to stop the BSP from coming to power in the 2022 assembly election. The BJP and SP leaders were aware of the fact that BSP chief Mayawati would take action against those who indulged in lawlessness and corruption when both the parties were power. But the people had made up their mind to make Mayawati next chief minister of UP, he said. That the BJP government had failed to control crime could be gauged from the fact that policemen killed a trader in a hotel. Instead of taking action against the culprits, senior police officers threatened the family members of the victim, he said. Mishra said to bring crowd in the rallies, the BJP was misusing the government machinery whereas the SP had promised tickets to several candidates on a seat. Instead of distributing smartphones and tablets during the pandemic, the BJP government was distributing the gadgets when elections were close. This clearly showed that the BJP was not interested in giving jobs to the youths but to get their votes, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/bsp-would-protect-sanatan-dharma-mishra-101640716507128.html
29-12-2021||Lucknow||PM inaugurates Kanpur Metro, becomes its first passenger||KANPUR Prime Minister Narendra Modi became the first passenger of the Kanpur Metro rail after he inaugurated the completed section of the project on Tuesday. The 9-km section from IIT-Kanpur to Motijheel was completed in a record two years’ time, said officials.Modi, along with Union minister Hardeep Singh Puri and UP chief minister Yogi Adityanath, travelled in the beautifully decorated train from IIT-Kanpur to Geeta Nagar crossing station in the city. The PM stated that the Metro train was a memorable experience for him. “Kanpur Metro would not only address the longstanding complaint of congestion on roads but would also be immensely beneficial in urban mobility,” he said. The PM also flagged off the first Metro train ferrying 150 school children who watched him on the giant screen installed at the station and cheered for him. The entire length of the Kanpur Metro rail project is 32 km and is being built at a cost of over ₹11,000 crore. Kanpur Metro is the fastest built Metro project in the country as it was completed before the deadline of 26 months, stated officials. Chief minister Yogi Adityanath started the construction work of the Kanpur metro project on November 15, 2019, and the trial run took place on the 9-km IIT-K to Motijheel priority corridor on November 10, 2021, in less than two years. The priority corridor has nine stations, each 80 metres long. Work on the extension of this project was going on at a rapid pace.A statement from the Prime Minister’s office said improving urban mobility had been one of the key focus areas of the PM. Before boarding the train, the PM inspected the Metro rail project. Managing director of UP Metro Rail Corporation Kumar Keshav briefed him about the various aspects of operations in Kanpur.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/pm-inaugurates-kanpur-metro-becomes-its-first-passenger-101640716503655.html
29-12-2021||Delhi||NEET PG protest: Kejriwal writes to PM, condemns police action on doctors||New Delhi: Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Tuesday wrote to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, urging him to “personally resolve” the issues of protesting doctors in the capital, and added that when Covid cases are rising, doctors should be in hospitals and not on the streets “struggling for a safe future”.Also Read | Protest in Delhi: Doctors demand apology, fixed date for counsellingKejriwal urged the central government to conduct NEET-PG counselling as soon as possible, and strongly condemned the “police brutality on the doctors”.Thousands of doctors are protesting against the delaying NEET-PG counselling. The exam was scheduled to be held in January this year, but was postponed in view of the first and second Covid-19 waves. The exam was finally held on September 12. However, due to the legal challenges in the Supreme Court the counselling has been put on hold. The protesters have maintained that the delay has resulted in a shortage of 45,000 doctors.
29-12-2021||Noida||Noida reports 28 fresh coronavirus cases in a day, highest in past six months||Gautam Budh Nagar reported 28 fresh Covid cases on Tuesday, taking the total active caseload to 82 -- highest since June first week, when 30 cases were reported, said the health department.The district now has the highest number of active Covid cases in Uttar Pradesh, and all the patients -- who have mild symptoms -- are in home isolation. 141 cases of coronavirus have been reported during December alone, which is more than double the number of cases (61) reported in November. Health officials said that all the fresh Covid cases were reported during random sampling, surveillance and screening at hospitals, with no international travellers among them.“Districts like Noida and Ghaziabad are closer to Delhi, and therefore, more people are vulnerable to get infected. However, it is not a matter of concern yet. The number of Covid cases are increasing everywhere across the country, but the positivity rate in the district is still low. People only need to ensure that they follow Covid protocols properly,” said Dr Sunil Sharma, chief medical officer (CMO). He also said that about half the people who tested positive on Tuesday were domestic travellers, and may have got infected during travel. All the patients are asymptomatic and are in home isolation. Cases have been consistently reducing since June. 51 cases were reported in August, which reduced to 48 in September, 43 in October, and again increased to 61 in November. District officials said that “testing has been increased” to track and treat the patients at the earliest. “It is a good thing that most of the patients are asymptomatic. They are in isolation. The same strategy will continue... With the New Year’s Day around the corner, ensuring Covid protocols is a challenge. We hope there is self-regulation among the people. Also, strict enforcement is in place in case of violations,” said Suhas LY, district magistrate. He said that the health department officials have been asked to increase random testing and contact tracing of the positive cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/noida-reports-28-fresh-coronavirus-cases-in-a-day-highest-in-past-six-months-101640716441758.html
29-12-2021||Delhi||Delhi schools to be closed after ‘Yellow Alert’ curbs imposed||The Delhi government on Tuesday ordered closure of schools in the Capital as part of the Graded Response Action Plan’s (Grap) ‘Yellow Alert’ curbs imposed to curb the spread of Covid-19 in the city.Also Read | Capital sounds ‘yellow alert’, adds more curbsSchools have been shut four times since April this year – twice owing to concerns over Covid-19, and twice because of hazardous pollution levels. Schools last restarted for in-person classes for students in Class 6 and above on December 18, after the Commission for Air Quality Management (CAQM) issued an order to that effect.On Tuesday, the Directorate of Education issued an order stating that “all government, government-aided, unaided recognised, NDMC, municipal and Delhi Cantonment Board schools will remain closed till further orders. However, online teaching-learning activities, examinations and related activities such as practicals, projects, and assignments for classes 9 to 12 would be conducted as per schedule.”
29-12-2021||Delhi||Delhi govt readying jabs plan for children aged 15-18 in the city||The Delhi government will train health care officials engaged in the vaccination programme to ensure no hiccups in the Covid vaccination drive for children in the 15-18 age group can begin smoothly on January 3, as announced by the Prime Minister Narendra Modi earlier.“We have received the Central government’s guidelines and vaccination programme for all permitted groups will be rolled out in compliance with the guidelines,” said an official.Also Read | Delhi schools to be closed after ‘Yellow Alert’ curbs imposedThe official added that the preparations for rolling out the vaccination programme for the particular age group is in the final stage.There are over 900,000 eligible children in the 15-18 age group in the Capital, as per the 2011 Census.Suneela Garg, professor and a member Lancet Commission Covid India Task Force, said, “Vaccination for children is important as these days, many children are at a health risk due to obesity and other co-morbidities. They also go to school and are at risk of catching coronavirus infection.”“Schools can also be used as vaccination centres for inoculating the children. It will, however, be challenging to inoculate those outside the schools,” Dr Garg said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-govt-readying-jabs-plan-for-children-aged-15-18-in-the-city-101640716261597.html
29-12-2021||Lucknow||Urdu poet ‘Akbar Allahabadi’ shown as ‘Akbar Prayagraj’ on UPHESC website||PRAYAGRAJ Renowned Urdu poet, ‘Akbar Allahabadi’, (1846-1921) is now ‘Akbar Prayagraj’, as per the official website of the Uttar Pradesh Higher Education Services Commission (UPHESC), an autonomous body functioning under the state government. Allahabad district was renamed Prayagraj in 2018 by the Yogi Adityanath-led state government.The official website of Prayagraj-based UPHESC (www.uphesc.org) shows updated name of Urdu poet Syed Akbar Hussain, popularly known as ‘Akbar Allahabadi’ as ‘Akbar Prayagraj’. The name change has been made in the ‘About Allahabad’ section of the portal. ‘Akbar Allahabadi’ is not the only famous literary personality whose pen name has been changed on the website. The ‘Allahabadi’ suffix to the names of all writers/poets has been changed to ‘Prayagraj’ on the portal. These include Rashid Allahabadi (born 1944) and Tegh Allahabadi (1930-1970) on the list of Urdu poets from the Sangam city who have been named after Akbar Allahabadi. They are now listed as ‘Tegh Prayagraj’ and ‘Rashid Prayagraj’. The website informs: “Akbar Prayagraj is a noted modern Urdu poet, and Nooh Narwi, Tegh Prayagraj, Shabnam Naqvi and Rashid Prayagraj have their origin in Prayagraj.” UPHESC secretary Vandana Tripathi said that the “error” in the information on the website had come to light on Tuesday and a correction was now being made through the agency that designed the website and manages it for UPHESC. She reiterated that the “name change” of the famous poets was an inadvertent error. However, this “faux pass” did not go down well with litterateurs and poets of Prayagraj. Noted writer and poet Imtiyaz Ahmad Ghazi, who owns the Guftgu Publication in Prayagraj, dubbed it a major “error” for a commission entrusted with the task of selecting principals and teachers for government-aided degree colleges of UP. “No one has the right to change the name of any individual. Even if the names of the cities have been changed, name of a writer or poet’s pen name cannot be altered by anyone. This should be corrected immediately,” said Ghazi.“The commission has made no changes on its website in this regard. The information has been given on the site by some mischievous elements. It is being amended accordingly. This act of mischievous elements is being investigated by the cyber cell and strict legal action will be taken against those responsible,” said Shivji Malviya, deputy secretary, UP Higher Education Service Commission, in a communication. 
29-12-2021||Lucknow||Cash found in a houseis BJP’s: Akhilesh||LUCKNOW: Amid the slugfest with the Bharatiya Janata Party over the I-T raids and recovery of cash from a perfume trader, Samajwadi Party (SP) chief Akhilesh Yadav said on Tuesday that the “tonnes of cash found in a house” was of “the BJP and not SP.” “Today, as I stand here on one side of the Ganga (in Unnao), the BJP people (PM Modi and CM Yogi) are on the other side of the river. And they lie. Tell us if the cash found in the walls of a house (of a trader in Kanpur and Kannauj) is of the BJP or not. The cash is not of SP, it is of BJP. You all saw (on TV and papers) that in a house (in Kanpur and Kannauj ) huge cash was discovered (by directorate general of GST investigations). There was so much cash that several currency-counting machines were requisitioned and still the counting continues on the fourth day today.” He said: “This is the biggest cash discovery ever in UP. Take out the call details (of the trader) and it will be proved that the cash is related to the BJP. And the BJP should also tell us, if so much cash was found, then did the demonetisation not fail? If not, how come so much cash was discovered at a BJP person’s house? Baba ji’s (Yogi) government will not survive now. People will uproot it in the 2022 (UP assembly polls”. Calling the BJP government and its top leaders’ liars, Akhilesh said that recently he heard chief minister Yogi Adityanath saying that lakhs were given jobs and crores got employment under his government. “We are people of ‘puraney khayalat (conventional people) and we still believe that Yogis and Babas do not lie. So now tell me, did any of you get jobs? This government has started distributing smartphones and tablets. Did any of you get them? Attacking the BJP government over Covid, he said: “This government ran away from its responsibility and left people to die. This government is responsible for the Covid deaths. People did not get medicines, beds, or oxygen. Unnao’s people saw dead bodies floating in the Ganga.” He said that now change was necessary for the state as there could not be a bigger liar than the BJP. It lied to farmers about doubling their income and to youth about jobs, he said. Calling the Kanpur Metro a gift by his party’s previous government to the people of Kanpur, he said: “This government continues re-inaugurating already inaugurated projects and re-lays foundation for already founded projects. Kanpur Metro is one more in the series as the Prime Minister (Narendra Modi) has inaugurated it today in Kanpur. The project was founded by the SP government. Today, I announce that on returning to power, the SP government will extend the Kanpur Metro to Unnao across the Ganga river.” Akhilesh Yadav also announced on Tuesday that if his party was voted back to power in UP, it would give ₹5 lakh compensation to kin of any cyclist who died in a road accident and also to the kin of anyone killed in a bull attack. Bicycle is the election symbol of the Samajwadi Party. Akhilesh made the announcement standing atop the roof of his Vijay Rath (a Bharat Benz bus) in Unnao during his Vijay Rath Yatra in the district, sandwiched between Kanpur and Lucknow. Akhilesh said that the previous Samajwadi Party government had built bicycle tracks, but the BJP government ruined them. “For safe passage to cyclists, the SP government had built bicycle tracks in Unnao also. But the BJP government ruined them. Cyclists die in road accidents. On coming to power, our government will give ₹5 lakh to the family of any cyclist who dies in a road accident anywhere in the state. Also, the new government will give ₹5 lakh aid to anyone who dies in a bull attack. Just recently, near here, an elderly woman died after a bull attacked her,” he said. 
