30-12-2021||Lucknow||12 new Covid cases in Meerut, samples to be sent for genome sequencing||MEERUT Twelve people, including a 3-year-old child, tested Covid positive on Wednesday. Now the district has 31 active Covid cases and 28 of them are undergoing treatment in home isolation. Two patients are admitted to a private hospital and one is in military hospital. Of the new cases, six are men and six women. Their samples would be sent to Delhi for genome sequencing to confirm if they are suffering from the new Covid variant ‘ Omicron’. Divisional surveillance officer Dr Ashok Taliyan has advised people to not take Covid lightly and follow protocol. He asked people to wear mask, maintain safe distance and avoid going in crowded places. Dr Taliyan said that the new patients were residents of Jai Bheemnagar, Kaserubuxer, Palhera, Police Lines, Rajban, Cantt and Sanjay Nagar and all those who came into their contact would also be tested. To note, 28 people have tested Covid positive in the city in the past four days. In an online meeting, principal secretary of medical education Alok Kumar directed the principal of LLRM Medical College to initiate preparations in view of the possible third wave of Covid. District magistrate K Balaji also directed the chief medical officer to keep a vigil on Covid patients and ensure daily feedback about their condition and provide them medicines and kits. Meanwhile, the strike of resident doctors continued in LLRM Medical College on the third consecutive day on Thursday. They are protesting police action against resident doctors in Delhi. Over 200 resident doctors have withdrawn from all services and interns along with non PG doctors have been deputed in their place in LLRM Medical College.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/12-new-covid-cases-in-meerut-samples-to-be-sent-for-genome-sequencing-101640888445327.html
30-12-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai reports 3,555 new Covid-19 cases, highest single-day spike so far||Mumbai: Indicating the onset of the third wave, Mumbai on Thursday saw a massive jump in Covid-19 cases with 3,555 new numbers being reported. Mumbai also reported 190 cases of the Omicron variant on the same day, the highest single-day spike so far, taking the tally of Omicron positive patients in the city to 327.Thursday’s cases are the highest figure since May 2 this year, when the city reported 3629 cases in a single day. On Wednesday, the city saw 2,445 new cases, and on Tuesday, the number was 1,333. Despite the spike in cases, zero Covid-19 deaths were reported in Mumbai on Thursday, for the seventh time in December. The toll due to covid-19 remains at 16,275, with a case fatality rate of 2.1%.Experts have attributed the spike in cases to the possible beginning of the third wave in Mumbai. Meanwhile, a senior civic official said, “Although officials have not declared this as the beginning of the third wave, however, all signs point towards it. Over 3000 cases in a single day indicate we are headed for a third wave.”The officer also shared that the Omicron positives were from samples collected on December 22 and 23. He went on to add that about one-third of the detected Omicron positives on Thursday are not international travellers. According to Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation, 141 Omicron positive patients from Mumbai do not have any international travel history. Of these, 89 are male, and 52 are female. 93 are fully vaccinated out of the 141, and three others have taken one dose; 7 are moderately symptomatic, 39 are mild symptomatic, and 95 are asymptomatic.The highest number among the 141 Omicron patients (21) were reported from the K/West ward corresponding to the area of Andheri West, followed by the D ward (11), corresponding to the area of Malabar Hill; followed by 10 each in the F/North ward of Matunga, and H/West ward of Bandra West. Dr Rahul Pandit, who is a member of the state Covid-19 task force said, “The third wave has the potential to spread quickly. We should wait for genome sequencing results of the past week or so from Mumbai, to get a better understanding of the spread of the Omicron variant.”Dharavi on Thursday reported 20 new covid-19 cases, also its highest single-day cases since May this year. It now has 61 active covid-19 cases. 87% of Mumbai’s 14,887 beds for covid-19 patients are vacant as of December 30, 90% of its 6676 oxygen beds are vacant, 82% of its 1965 ICU beds are vacant, and 80% of its 1,148 ventilator beds are vacant. Maharashtra too, reported a massive number of Covid-19 patients with new 198 cases of the Omicron variant, taking the total number of cases reported so far in the state to 450. Of the Omicron patients reported in the state on Thursday, 190 are from Mumbai while Thane accounts for four. Pune and Pimpri-Chinchwad cities and Satara and Nanded districts have reported one patient each. Of these, just 30 have an international travel history. A total of 125 Omicron patients have been released so far after a negative RT-PCR test. As of Wednesday, Mumbai accounted for the highest caseload of active patients in the state (57.31%) followed by Pune (14.60 %), Thane (11.65%), Nashik (2.99%) and Ahmednagar (2.74%).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-reports-3-555-new-covid-19-cases-highest-single-day-spike-so-far-101640887660894.html
30-12-2021||Pune||The year that was 2021: Pune metro, PMC’s property tax scheme gives hope; Covid-19 threat still looms large||As another pandemic-ridden year nears its end, here are some of the biggest stories from the city in 2021. Not all of these stories were positive, but the impact they had on the citizens was huge. As you go through these stories, you will realise that while there is hope for a better future in 2022, there are some warning signs as well. Covid, politics, Pune metro and crime were understandably the top topics of the year.Covid and vaccination campaign At the beginning of 2021 when everything was looking positive with Covid case tally on the decline and most of the restrictions being lifted, things changed suddenly as the second wave hit Pune. The number of cases and fatalities were quite high compared to first wave, and as a result, Covid dominated the year most. If 2020 was disastrous, 2021 was even worse. During the year, Pune district saw over 12,350 fatalities due to Covid, much higher than 2020 when the number was 7,767. At the same time, close to 793,000 persons were infected with the virus this year as against 372,655 infections in 2020. These were not just the numbers, Covid robbed many families of their near and dear ones. In some cases, virus claimed entire families as citizens witnessed health infrastructure such as beds, oxygen and medicines falling short. Although the first wave helped city ramp up its bed capacity, the surge in number of cases during 2021 exposed lacunas on the delivery front involving city and district administration. In January, India also began its ambitious vaccination campaign against COVID-19, one of the largest in the world. Starting with healthcare workers and frontline workers, the vaccination programme was gradually opened for all adults in the country. Infra projects drove Pune’s realty On the infrastructure front, the Pune Metro project, which was first mooted in 2002, completed five years of its foundation laying event in 2021 which saw the Prime Minister in attendance. The hope offered by the leaders- Pune metro to begin operations in 2021. Five years since, the on-ground reality is different. In reality, only 50 per cent work has been completed as the year ends. If operations on priority stretch – between Sant Tukaram nagar to Phugewadi - have been deferred multiple times due to the incomplete work; the mass exodus of migrant labours during May-June has only delayed the project that promises to be panacea for Pune city in absence of robust mass transport. For a city with over 50 lakh population (including that of Pimpri-Chinchwad) commutating through daily traffic jams, inferior air and poor roads is a daily woe no less than punishment. All this aggravates when the city streets flood every now and then even with a few centimetres of rain, something that Puneites meekly watch – and move on. At the same time, not much happened on the airport front as the government reconsidered its decision and explored another site for the proposed airport at Purandar. Though it could not settle for that too. While the existing airport at Lohegaon was also partially operational during some months of the year, while it had to be completely closed for two weeks ahead of Diwali. In the case of multilevel flyovers’; work at Chandani chowk was inaugurated by union minister Nitin Gadkari three years ago, the work of which only picked up momentum only this year. However, work of the proposed Katraj-Kondhwa road widening did not have any development. Political heat rises During a penultimate year for elections at the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC), differences among the ruling establishment and the opposition at local level often came to fore with both sides indulging into harsh criticism. However, at the same time, there were occasions when the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), as ruling party, and main opposition Nationalist Congress Party (NCP), joined hands, particularly on issues of big projects. At the same time, NCP and Shiv Sena also hinted at joining hands for upcoming municipal polls, while the Congress’ local leadership is still firm on going solo, although the three parties share power in state under the banner of Maha Vikas Aghadi. The year’s highlight was also the new swanky offices that the NCP and BJP constructed. With this, party offices of Congress, NCP and BJP have come closer. During the last month of the year, the BJP sounded beguile for polls by bringing Union Home Minister Amit Shah. Shah attended various programmes including PMC premises event where foundation stone for Babasaheb Ambedkar’s statue was laid while another statue of Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj was inaugurated. Best of PMC is yet to come Among the issues that mostly dominated this year, was the proposal to rent out amenity spaces in the city. Although the BJP was insistent on it, other parties and environmentalist opposed it, which eventually led the civic body to not go ahead. The PMC after opposition from local population had to put on hold the proposal to redevelop Taljai hills, which included developing some theme parks. During July this year,the PMC started its special air-conditioned bus service running through some of the most congested parts of Pune central. The highlight of this new bus transport service is its fare. The PMC-controlled public transport body, PMPML will charge only ₹10 for a ticket that will be valid for the entire day and a commuter can travel to any central parts of the city. For now, the service has received a positive response from the people. The PMC with the help of Pune Metropolitan Region Development Authority (PMRDA) also managed to initiate work at the Savitribai Phule Pune University (SPPU) square where an existing flyover had to be demolished due to proposed metro rail work. On the property tax front, PMC did a commendable job as it increased its revenue due to the amnesty scheme it offered. However, the 24x7 equatable water supply scheme was a complete mess as the project is moving at slow pace, while the roads dug up at various places in peth areas has caused great inconvenience to the people. Considering that, the PMC is all set for elections early next year. Violent crime up slightly in Pune this year City’s crime record during 2021 was rocked with series of firing incidents in the last three months of the year. There were five incidents with criminal on record killed in some cases. There were isolated murder cases too. The year began with news about the death of a woman who was connected with former minister Sanjay Rathod. Although her death never turned into an FIR as police only registered it as an accidental death case, the minister had to resign after criticism from several quarters including the BJP. The cyber offences have also seen increase on year-on-year basis with rise in use of digital mode for transactions. For city police, the last month of the year turned good as they cracked a series of recruitment and paper leak cases while uncovering a big nexus of agents, officials and private firms responsible to hold exams.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/the-year-that-was-2021-pune-metro-pmc-s-property-tax-scheme-gives-hope-covid-19-threat-still-looms-large-101640887484650.html
30-12-2021||Pune||MPSC to take strict action against aspirants for using derogatory language in media||PUNE The Maharashtra Public Service Commission (MPSC), on Thursday, issued a circular regarding aspirants who have gone on news channels and media and commented about various recent issues related to MPSC exams.MPSC has called it a wrong way to portray the issues and said derogatory and abusive language have been used against the commission. Accordingly, the organisation has now started a process to debar such aspirants for a lifetime or a specific period from the exams.As per the circular issued by the MPSC, some of the aspirants in the recent past have expressed disappointment about some of the decisions and work process of conducting the exams. While criticising the government organisations, these aspirants need to use appropriate language. But it was noticed that some of the aspirants used derogatory and abusive language about MPSC while giving media bites and in the news channel interviews.While talking about the issue Rahul Kawthekar an aspirant and member of MPSC Coordination Association for Students, said, “It is necessary to use constitutional language while criticising MPSC as most of the aspirants will be the future government officers. We have also instructed all aspirants to be careful about commenting on any issue related to MPSC,”Kuldeep Ambekar, a student and president of the Students Helping Hand organisation, said, “This is injustice for aspirants who raise voice against the irregularities in the MPSC exams, and then they will be targeted in terms of legal action. MPSC should improve their way of conducting the exams and help out students, rather than issuing such threatening circulars.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/mpsc-to-take-strict-action-against-aspirants-for-using-derogatory-language-in-media-101640886880412.html
30-12-2021||Pune||Former minister of state’s revolver stolen along with five live cartridges||Pune: Pune city Congress president and former Maharashtra minister Ramesh Bagwe personal revolver was allegedly stolen along with five live rounds from his car between December 25 and December 27. According to the Khadak police, the incident took place in front of Gen Arunkumar Vaidya Stadium in Kasarwadi where his car was parked. The FIR states that Bagwe had kept the revolver along with five rounds in the car seat storage bag when it was opened by an unidentified thief who used a duplicate key to access the car. The total value of the firearm and rounds has been estimated to be ₹1 lakh. Khadak police station incharge Shreehari Bahirat said, “The firearm and live rounds were kept in the storage unit near the front passenger seat of the car. We have registered a theft case against an unidentified person under relevant sections of Indian Penal Code (IPC).” Bagwe said, “Somebody seems to have stolen it from my car and I have approached the police and filed an FIR.” Bagwe, who was elected as an MLA from Pune Cantonment Assembly constituency, was sworn in as minister of state for Home in Ashok Chavan cabinet in 2010.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/former-minister-of-state-s-revolver-stolen-along-with-five-live-cartridges-101640886581027.html
30-12-2021||Pune||Owners to keep restaurants closed on New Year’s eve in Pune||Pune: With increase in Covid cases in the state and the state authorities issuing new guidelines to check the virus spread, many restaurants, bars, pubs and food joints have decided to keep their property shut to avoid public rush. As per the new Covid guidelines, a group of more than five members cannot assemble at one place between 9pm and 6am. “We will remain closed on December 31. Even with mandatory 50% capacity, it will be difficult to keep a check on visitors. Our management will be celebrating the December 31 evening at our home,” said Somesh Narwani, High Spirits Cafe, Koregaon Park. Ruchika Khalpada, owner, Lotus restaurant in Kothrud, said, “During pre-Covid days, we used to organise party for guests and cut the new year cake at midnight. As holding party for limited visitor capacity will put us in loss, we have decided to keep the place closed on New Year’s eve.” Rahil Surana, owner of Hot and Spicy Cafe, Vimannagar said, “We have to cancel our regular group parties on December 31 because of Covid restrictions. We have decided to remain closed on the day to avoid the unnecessary burden of keeping additional staff to check vaccination certificates of visitors.” Many cafes and restaurants have cancelled New Year eve parties. “No special plan at my cafe. One can come and have regular dinner like we serve during the other days. Hotel business has become tough because of 50 per cent attendance and two staff members have to remain occupied to check vaccine certificates of visitors,” said Sarveah Jadhav, Austin 40 cafe, Bhandarkar road. Sultana Lalwani, who run a sandwich-cum-cafe in Sahakarnagar, said, “We can manage rush if we are allowed full capacity at the outer shade of our joint, but we are allowed only 25 per cent in open space.” Year-end gatherings Pune Municipal Corporation has appealed to people to stay indoors and keep New Year celebrations sober. What’s to be followed: More than 5 people in one group is not allowed between 9pm and 6am. Only 50 per cent capacity allowed in indoors and 25 per cent for open space dining No permission for organising religious event on New Year’s eve People above 60 years of age and below 10 years of age should avoid to leave their homes on the night of December 31 Social distancing is mandatory No firecrackers allowed||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/owners-to-keep-restaurants-closed-on-new-year-s-eve-in-pune-101640886046241.html
30-12-2021||Lucknow||LU VC inaugurates student facilities on campus||Lucknow University (LU) vice-chancellor Prof Alok Kumar Rai inaugurated a student lounge and five e-rickshaws for students to move within the campus on his completion of two years in office on Thursday.“These initiatives reflect our belief of keeping the student in the centre of everything we do. While the lounge can be used by students visiting the office of DSW (Dean Students Welfare), they can use the e-rickshaw to move freely within the campus. The move is also part of our aim for a clean vehicle-free campus,” said the VC.Rai moved to Lucknow University as V-C from Banaras Hindu University (BHU) in 2019, at a time when the LU administration was marred with allegations of financial and academic mismanagement. Since then, Lucknow University celebrated its centennial year and has managed to steer clear of trouble even in tough Covid-19 times. The working sphere of the varsity has also expanded considerably from Lucknow to four other districts.The university has managed its finances well and has rejuvenated the academia from Diploma to D. Litt, which now will cater to the requirements of modern age students, claimed V-C. V-C said that ordinances have been passed for all these newly designed courses. LU is the first university amongst all the state universities to get NIRF (National Institutes Ranking Framework) ranking and is the new NEP (National Education Policy) complied institution of the country.“In the coming year, the university plans to overcome the deficiency of faculty members in different departments. University will focus on human resource rejuvenation, would try to secure a better rank in NIRF, and get NAAC accreditation. Effective measures will be taken for the better utilisation of available infrastructure such as redesigning the auditoriums in different departments to strengthen the soul of the university,” said the VC. Jump in enrolment of foreign studentsThe LU saw a considerable jump in foreign students taking admission in the last two years. In the session 2021-22, 357 foreign students enrolled themselves in different courses of the university, which is around a 100% jump in comparison to the 2020-21 session.The spike in enrolment of foreign students helps boost the brand of the university, said the V-C. The LU’s admission notification is now communicated electronically to all the foreign embassies.Increase in digital footprintThe number of visitors to the refurbished website of the university, which was launched last year in April, has doubled in a short period. All the department of LU and offices have their YouTube channel and Twitter account. The number of subscribers for university official YouTube channel and Twitter accounts is around 17,000 and 22,000, respectively. Lucknow University also launched its mobile app recently.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/lu-vc-inaugurates-student-facilities-on-campus-101640885807406.html
30-12-2021||Pune||Girish Bapat opposes shifting of FDA office from Aundh, Guruwar peth||PUNE: Member of Parliament (MP) Girish Bapat is against the plan to shift Food and Drug Administration (FDA) office from Aundh and Guruwar peth to Moshi in Pimpri-Chinchwad. “Food stall owners, medical stores, hawkers and residents need to visit the FDA office for routine works. Moving the office to Moshi would leave people to spend a whole day to visit and get work done. Offices like FDA should be located in the central parts of the city.” Bapat has appealed to the Pune municipal commissioner Vikram Kumar to set up FDA office at the central part of the city for residents’ convenience. Bapat said, “The shifting of FDA office from PMRDA building in Aundh to Moshi will be a faraway location for both Pune and Pimpri-Chinchwad residents.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/girish-bapat-opposes-shifting-of-fda-office-from-aundh-guruwar-peth-101640885680295.html
30-12-2021||Pune||We avoided speaker election to respect governor: Ajit Pawar||PUNE: Despite having clear majority, the Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government has avoided the speaker election to respect the governor, said deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar on Thursday. The deputy chief minister was in a city to address the Pune District Central Co-operative Bank’s campaign. Speaking to the media after the meet, Pawar said, “As the governor said that the speaker election is unconstitutional, we avoided the election just to respect the governor. We did not feel that it is unconstitutional. We will meet him soon.” Regarding Covid cases, Pawar said, “Some states have already imposed restrictions. We feel bad to place any restrictions, but will have to take decision if the virus situation worsens in the state.” He appealed to people to avoid public gathering during the marriage season. “If health is well then celebrations can happen later. I do not have to make any comment on the increasing number of New Year parties, but my sincere appeal to all is to celebrate it at home.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/we-avoided-speaker-election-to-respect-governor-ajit-pawar-101640885440182.html
30-12-2021||Lucknow||Recovery of cash, gold bricks exposed black deeds of previous govts: Yogi||LUCKNOW Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Thursday launched a veiled attack on the Samajwadi Party (SP) over Kanpur businessman Piyush Jain’s arrest and said that the recovery of a huge amount of cash and gold bricks had exposed how the previous governments concealed the money that belonged to the poor.“These days, heavy earthmover is scooping out piles of currency notes that were swallowed by the corrupt in the previous regimes for their own benefits. The recovery of a huge stash of cash and gold bricks three days ago exposes the black deeds of previous governments,” the CM said while laying the foundation stone and inaugurating 70 projects worth ₹380 crore (including Government Medical College) in Pilibhit.“Pehle janata ka paisa satta ke jeb mein jaata tha, aaj wahi janata ka paisa JCB se khod kar nikala jaa raha hai (earlier, the money for public welfare used to go into the pockets of those in power, today the same public money is being dug out using heavy earthmover),” said Adityanth.“Now, this money will be used to accelerate the pace of development to make the state number one,” he added.Listing the infrastructure growth witnessed by UP in his government, the CM stated, “We did the work of establishing nationalism, brought about many big airport, transport, road, medical college, expressways and other projects.”Adityanath said the double engine government of the BJP was giving rations to the poor twice a month. “The previous governments could have done this kind of work, but the money meant for the poor used to go into the pockets of the ruling government,” he added.Speaking about the development works in Pilibhit, the CM said that the farmers of Pilibhit were writing a new story. “Ab yahan ganna hota hai, danga nahin. Five years ago, anarchy, hooliganism, exploitation and disorder prevailed in UP,” he added. Addressing the crowd, Adityanath invoked Lord Krishna and said his government was reviving the flute industry in the district. “Work is going on to restore the flute, which Lord Krishna had once played. Your flute was recognised almost 5,000 years ago by Lord Shri Krishna. But, the previous governments had forgotten this. Today, we have associated this industry with ODOP, which will carry forward the tradition,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/recovery-of-cash-gold-bricks-exposed-black-deeds-of-previous-govts-yogi-101640884481198.html
30-12-2021||Other||Jump in Covid infections in Punjab with 167 fresh cases||Chandigarh Punjab registered yet another jump in fresh Covid-19 infections with 167 cases detected on Thursday. On Wednesday, the state had registered 100 infections. The state’s positivity rate for the day was 1.1%, the highest over the past three months. With these fresh cases, the state’s total tally of positive cases has reached 6,04,594 cases, according to a medical bulletin. The number of active cases in the state has increased to 582. Among fresh cases, maximum 46 cases were detected in Pathankot, followed by 39 in Patiala and 18 in SAS Nagar. With 33 persons recovering from the infection, the number of cured persons has reached 5,87,368, the medical bulletin. To date, 16,644 persons have lost their lives due to the virus.A total of 1,68,1,0043 samples have been collected for testing so far in the state, of 15,171 were tested on the day. Over 81,775 doses of vaccine were administered on the day.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/jump-in-covid-infections-in-punjab-with-167-fresh-cases-101640884479508.html
30-12-2021||Pune||Pune district reports 480 Covid cases, 11 deaths||PUNE As per authorities, Pune district reported 480 new Covid positive cases and 11 deaths on Thursday. Out of these four deaths were reported from Pune rural. One death was reported from Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC) and six deaths were reported from Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC).As per the state health department, Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) has so far reported 526,145 Covid cases and 9,262 deaths till Thursday. PCMC has reported 271,189 cases and 3,526 deaths. Pune rural has reported 369,683 cases and 7,037 deaths. In the Pune district, there are 1,167,071 lakh Covid cases. Out of this, 1.144,616 patients have recovered. There have been 20,175 deaths in the district. And at present, there are 2,226 active cases. As per the state health department, 1,193 patients were discharged on Thursday in Maharashtra taking the total to 65,07,330 in the state. The recovery rate in the state is 97.55%.Across Maharashtra, 5,368 new cases of Covid were diagnosed on Thursday and 22 Covid-19 deaths were reported. The case fatality rate in the state is 2.12%.The state health department stated out of 68,887,303 laboratory samples, 6,670,754 have been tested positive till Thursday. That is 9.68% of patients till Thursday.Currently 133,748 people are in home quarantine and 1,078 people are in institutional quarantine.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pune-district-reports-480-covid-cases-11-deaths-101640884066593.html
30-12-2021||Mumbai||Covid positive cases in Navi Mumbai cross 100 for first time since July||For the first time since July 2021, the per day Covid positive cases under Navi Mumbai Municipal Corporation (NMMC) has crossed the mark of 100.In the last one week alone, the cases have increased by 142% in the NMMC area.Currently, the average daily cases reported in NMMC is around 80 while it was 33 in the last week. The doubling rate, which was 2,820 days last week, has come down to 1,033 days. The active cases, too, have increased from 327 to 688 cases.Meanwhile, the average testing has remained almost the same. Last week, it was 10,506 testing per day average, which is now 10,795 per day.“The testing that NMMC conducts is the highest in the state. There is no reason why this should not be considered as the beginning of the third wave. Looking at it, the cases are increasing. People should, by now, understand that the third wave was not media hype but a reality. It is a trend that is seen in countries across the world and it is time that people understand that everything is normal yet. The New Year celebrations should be done strictly with Covid protocols, which by now is known to even the children,” NMMC commissioner, Abhijit Bangar, said.Even as there is a rise in the cases, around 60% of the cases are asymptomatic. “Most of the asymptomatic cases are found to be negative in the antigen test and hence we have increased the capacity of the RT-PCR. With the increasing number of Omicron cases in Navi Mumbai and also the overall cases, structural, fire and oxygen audit of all the hospitals have been ordered,” Bangar added.The primary centre for admission will remain to be the CIDCO exhibition hall. Radha Swamy Satsang Hall, which was used during the second wave, was shut after the cases decreased. If needed, the hall would be used again, Bangar said.Dr GD Pol Institute and Mayuresh building would also be kept ready with the beds for use if the cases increase.“Even as the cases have increased, there is no surge in critical cases. The per day demand of the oxygen remains to be around 1.5 tons to 2 tons daily since last one month. During the second wave, the highest demand was around 18-20 tons per day. Currently, we are in a position to provide around nine tons per day,” Babasaheb Rajale, oxygen nodal officer, said.On July 25, 2021, there were 107 cases reported, which was the last time the 100-mark was breached. Now on Wednesday, 165 cases were reported.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/covid-positive-cases-in-navi-mumbai-cross-100-for-first-time-since-july-101640884065430.html
30-12-2021||Lucknow||Agra: Private bus ‘hijacked’, recovered||A private bus, with passengers onboard, was hijacked on Yamuna Expressway by four persons on Thursday morning. The accused came in a car and fled away with the bus. Later, the bus was recovered near the Firozabad border, and all the four accused were arrested. “We received information about the hijacking of a bus along with passengers on Yamuna Expressway, within limits of Khandoli police station of Agra, on Thursday morning. Police swung into action, and the bus was recovered near Tundla, and four accused were arrested. They are being interrogated and a case of loot has been registered at Khandoli police station,” informed Sudhir Kumar Singh, SSP Agra.“The incident was the outcome of a money dispute between the seller and purchaser of bus,” the SSP added. Avdesh Kumar Gautam, SHO, Khandauli police station, informed that 70 passengers were asked to deboard as the accused fled away with the bus. The driver and the conductor of the bus were also beaten up by the accused.“The bus was owned by a travel agency based in Delhi, who sold it for token money to a purchaser from Bihar. The rest of the money was to be paid in December. The Delhi-based seller tried to regain possession of the bus after the purchaser failed to make the payment,” the SHO said. 
30-12-2021||Mumbai||Farmer-social worker adopts 51 children’s educational expenses in Shahapur||A farmer-cum-social worker from Shahapur, Baban Harne, has adopted 51 adivasi school children aged six years to 14 years. He would take care of their educational expenses till their studies are completed.Although schools were resumed, these students were not able to attend due to several financial issues. To solve this problem, Harne has come forward and adopted these children and pledged that they complete their education.As schools have resumed all over the Thane district, every school teacher (both government and private) from the rural areas is trying his/her best to convince and get the school children back to school and to encourage them to study.In the same way, supervisors of NEW English School, Junior College of Dolkhamb noticed that before the pandemic they had more than 1,500 students in their school from Classes 5 to 12.But, even after three weeks of school resuming, only 1,000 to 1,200 students rejoined the school. Being the only semi-English school and college in the area, its principal, Pushplata Thakur, decided to find the root cause of it.The students were coming to this school from Chinchpada, Khokarwadi, Dehane, Dolkhamb, Katkariwadi, Jambhulwadi, Ranvihir and Talwade adivasi villages which are almost 8km to 10km away and it is the only school near them.Supervisor of the school, Madhukar Harne, said, “We decided to reach the house of every child who is absent and find the reason behind it. More than 300 children have been found having financial problems. All these families have lost their jobs and lost their farm cultivation due to heavy rain. They don’t have minimum grains to survive and the only way to get out of the situation is to earn money with any kind of daily work. The school is so far away, how will they travel by bus? We teachers decided to give them travelling expenses but we also have a shortage of money and we discussed this problem with Harne. He decided to bear all the expenses of the students whose conditions were extremely poor.”Hiraman Pardhi, a 17-year-old, was happy to send his sister, Shobha Pardhi of Class 9 to the school. Pardhi said, “We are residents of Chinchwadi. The school is 8km away. There are nine members in my family including three children. We are struggling each day to earn ₹10 or ₹20 collectively. I was very disheartened when school started and my talented sister who loves to study could not go to school. She passed with an ‘A’ grade all these years. She loves English and teaches other children in my village. To travel 8km, we didn’t have money. She had to spend the whole day in school and we cannot earn enough for our family. But as Harne has adopted her, she can go to school for half a day and work for the rest of the day.”Harne said, “Being a farmer, I know all of us have faced huge losses in the rain. Adivasi people here do not have another source of earning. Therefore, I decided at least the needy children in these areas should not be deprived of education and therefore I took this decision. I will provide expenses for school, travelling and books for 51 children. The happiness on these children’s faces was phenomenal when they joined their first class. All of us should come forward for their education.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/farmersocial-worker-adopts-51-children-s-educational-expenses-in-shahapur-101640883100294.html
30-12-2021||Other||Thane police, forest, civic authorities take all steps to ensure smooth entry into New Year||All departments of Thane city are set for a smooth New Year celebration on Friday, and would jump into action swiftly to prevent any stopping any nuisance on the New Year eve.Thane police and forest officials have issued several rules and regulations regarding the New Year celebrations. The forest department has banned any kind of party at Yeoor forest area. Thane city police have kept strict checks at the entry points of Yeoor and other entries of Thane city. Thane Municipal Corporation’s special teams are set to keep an eye on restaurants and public places.Thane Municipal Corporation (TMC), forest officials and Thane police officials have formed teams to keep eye on people who are visiting Yeoor forest area of Thane.An officer from the forest department said, “No one is allowed to party at Yeoor. If anyone is found doing the same, we will immediately file a case against them under the Forest Act. A team of officers will be there at seven different entry and exit points of the forest area of Thane. No one is allowed to burst crackers near the forest area. With the help of Thane police officials, we have kept checks everywhere.”All Thane police officials are set for the New Year bandobast across Thane, with traffic police teams positioned to nab rule flouters. All entry points to the city and the suburbs will have checkpoints. Thane’s traffic Deputy Commissioner of Police, B Patil said, “We started taking action against the traffic rule flouters since December 1, but on Thursday we had kept ‘No Challan Day’ to create awareness among the motorists about the new traffic challan fee system and their pending payments so that they may try to control their rule-breaking acts on December 31. Our traffic police, along with local police, will be at every important checkpoint on the New Year eve to check drunk-and-drive cases. We will be strictly taking action against them.”Thane municipal commissioner, Vipin Sharma, also ordered every additional commissioner to form patrolling teams to keep checks on hotels, restaurants and other public places.Additional commissioner, Sandip Malvi, said, “The government has allowed restaurants to be open till 11pm and restaurants till 12 midnight. Therefore, they should not extend their time limit. To keep a check on them, we have formed teams in every ward to keep check on them. Also, our teams will make sure that crowds don’t gather in public places beyond 9pm and will also take action against people who do not wear masks.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/thane-police-forest-civic-authorities-take-all-steps-to-ensure-smooth-entry-into-new-year-101640882747680.html
30-12-2021||Lucknow||Covid-19 booster shots: Preparations begin to administer third dose to medical, frontline workers||Following the Central government’s instructions to administer booster dose of Covid-19 vaccines amid concern over the highly transmissible variant Omicron, preparations have begun in earnest to administer the doses to medical professionals, frontline health staff and senior citizens with comorbidities in Prayagraj and Pratapagrh districts from January 10, 2022, informed district medical and health officials. Similarly, preparations to administer the vaccine to 15 to 18-year-olds from January 3, 2022, are also underway, they added.Officials claimed that a major challenge in this direction are those frontline and health workers who have not yet got the second dose of the vaccine. They have been asked to get their second shots by December 31 at all costs. Such individuals are being identified and being contacted personally by the department in this regard, informed a senior district health official.District immunisation officer, Prayagraj Dr Tirath Lal said that so far 35,172 health workers of the district have been immunised, along with 43,228 frontline workers, which include employees of the police, revenue and municipal departments and others. “Now, all of them would be given the third booster dose of the vaccine from around January 10. Those individuals who have been administered the two shots of the vaccine and suffer from comorbidities would also be administered the third dose of the Covishield or Covaxin,” he explained.These persons are now being informed about this through their contact numbers available with the district medical and health department, he explained.Around 3,000 health workers and 5,000 frontline workers, who have not taken their second shots, are also being asked to get their booster shots immediately, Dr Lal said.Meanwhile, school and madarsa officials are also being contacted to ensure that a maximum of 15 to 18-year-olds take their first shots in the first week of January, as soon as the districts start immunisation drive. These teens would get their jabs on the premises of their schools themselves, officials say.In Pratapgarh district too, preparations have begun in earnest. Here too, the plan is to kick-start administering the Covid vaccine to 15 to 18-year-olds from January 3 and the third dose to medical professionals, frontline health staff and senior citizens with comorbidities from January 10, 2022. “The data of the people to be immunised will be prepared development block wise and sent to the community and primary health centres (CHCs and PHCs) by the district medical and health department. The plan is to set up separate booths for this at the CHCs and PHCs of the district, shared assistant district immunisation officer,” Pratapgarh Dr Mahesh Kumar Singh.He said that the 15 to 18 years old would be administered Covaxin in accordance with the government’s instructions. 
30-12-2021||Lucknow||Amit Shah says no bahubalis, only Bajrangbali under Yogi rule in UP||Union home minister Amit Shah on Thursday blamed Samajwadi Party (SP) president Akhilesh Yadav for glorifying Pakistan’s founder Muhammad Ali Jinnah in the run-up to assembly elections in Uttar Pradesh, and said there were no bahubalis but only Bajrangbali was present every where under Yogi rule .Addressing a rally in Aligarh, Amit Shah asked people not to vote for those who remember Jinnah, who had divided the nation. Such people did not remember the late Kalyan Singh, who sacrificed his chief minister’s post for cause of the Ram temple in Ayodhya, the home minister said.Amit Shah reached Aligarh for the public meeting after addressing another rally in Moradabad. Deputy chief minister Keshav Prasad Maurya and Union minister of state Arjun Ram Meghwal shared the stage with the Union home minister who remembered Swami Haridas, Rishi Vishwamitra, prominent Jat leader and freedom fighter Raja Mahendra Pratap Singh, poet Gopal Dass Neeraj and Kalyan Singh for their Aligarh connect.Amit Shah alleged that it was the Samajwadi Party regime which opened fire on kar sevaks in Ayodhya in 1990 and resorted to lathi-charge when former BJP president Lal Krishna Advani was leading the “rath yatra” during the Ram Janmabhoomi movement.“On the other hand, Prime Minister Narendra Modi did “bhoomi pujan” for Ram temple in Ayodhya (on August 5, 2020). Akhilesh Babu can try his best, but in a few months, there would be a sky-high temple of Prabhu Sri Ram in Ayodhya as is the desire of crores of Ram bhakts,” said Shah.“There were bahubalis (mafias) snatching land from the poor in the Samajwadi Party regime, but under Yogi Adityanath’s rule, there are no bahubalis and only bajrangbali (the Hindu god Hanuman) is present everywhere in Uttar Pradesh,” he said.Referring to Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi as “behenji” travelling across UP these days, Amit Shah recollected that Congress leader Rahul Gandhi was in Aligarh to address public meeting in a previous election and was planning to have a factory for potatoes.“Rahul Gandhi is not aware that potatoes do not come from factory, but are grown on land,” Shah said.Comparing Samajwadi Party with BJP, Shah said that SP stood for triple P i.e. Pariwarvad (dynasty rule), Pakshpat (​favouritism) and Palayan (exodus) while BJP represented triple V —Vikas (development), Vyapar (trade) and Virasat (heritage). “Can BSP, SP and their leaders Bua (Mayawati) and Babua (Akhilesh) do any good to UP? Can they provide free ration, toilets, medicines and electricity to the poor in the state? It is only Narendra Modi who can do so and has done it. There is huge turnout for Jan Vishwas Yatra of BJP in the state and it is enough to communicate to Akhilesh Yadav that he can try what he can, but the BJP is winning more than 300 seats in the UP assembly elections,” said Amit Shah.He also said, “The Congress, the BSP and the Samajwadi Party all were against abolition of Article 370 in Kashmir, but Narendra Modi scrapped it on August 5, 2019. Prime Minister Modi gave a befitting reply to terrorism by carrying out surgical strikes within Pakistan.” 
30-12-2021||Lucknow||Amit Shah takes swipe at Mayawati, says she needs to step out as polls are here||Union home minister Amit Shah on a whirlwind tour of Uttar Pradesh (UP) continued to play up the temple theme and target the main opposition Samajwadi Party, though on Thursday he also picked on Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) chief Mayawati, claiming that she was “afraid” and yet to join her party’s campaign in the poll bound state. At a public meeting in Moradabad during the Bharatiya Janata Party’s (BJP’s) ‘Jan Vishwas Yatra’, said the BSP chief was yet to shake off the cold. “Behenji ki toh abhi thand hi nahin udi hai ... woh bhaiybhit hain .. behenji chunaav aa gaya hai, thoda bahut bahar nikaliye, baad main ye na kehna ki maine prachaar nahi kiya tha (behenji hasn’t shaken off the cold yet. She is afraid. Behenji elections are here, now step out a little else don’t say later that you didn’t campaign),” Shah said in his first sharp, pointed attack on Mayawati during the 2022 UP campaign. Shah’s attack had a context. While SP chief Akhilesh Yadav has been touring the state as part of the Samajwadi Party’s ‘Vijay Rath yatra’, Congress general secretary and her party’s UP in-charge Priyanka Gandhi too has been actively campaigning across the state. The BSP’s campaign so far has been largely focused on party’s national general secretary Satish Chandra Mishra, a point Shah chose to highlight in the UP campaign. He claimed that even if “bua, babua aur behen (referring to Mayawati, Akhilesh Yadav and Congress leader Priyanka Gandhi)” contest jointly, they won’t be able to stop the BJP. Shah, who also addressed public meetings in Aligarh and Unnao, cited his government’s decision to do away with the instant triple talaq (Islamic divorce) law as proof that the BJP didn’t engage in appeasement but cared for all. “Our political opponents are getting stomach ache over the decision and asking us why we did that. I want to ask why Muslim mothers and sisters didn’t have any rights? Akhileshji, Muslim women too have seen how much you opposed (the scrapping of triple talaq),” Shah said while accusing the SP chief of appeasement politics.Claiming that against 700 riots under Samajwadi Party rule, the BJP rule was free of riots, Shah pointed out a battalion of Pradeshik Armed Constabulary (PAC) would be set up in western UP’s Shamli district. The 2013 Muzaffarnagar riots had started from nearby Shamli.“You know that with PAC around, there are no riots and now in case of any need, one needn’t requisition PAC from Lucknow,” Amit Shah said.Decoding Shah’s political messaging, BJP said that the reference to PAC was also aimed at highlighting how previous governments, especially the SP one, treaded the path of appeasement for vote bank concerns. Shah also coined NIZAM, an Urdu word which he explained meant ‘rule’.“UP doesn’t need bua, babua’s ‘Nizam’ for that meant Naseemuddin (Siddiqui), Imran (Masood), Azam (Khan) and Mukhtar Ansari,” he said. Naseemuddin Siddiqui, a former Mayawati aide is now with Congress. Imran Masood is a Congress leader who made news for a disparaging remark on PM Narendra Modi in 2014. Azam Khan is a senior Samajwadi Party leader, currently in Sitapur jail while mafia turned politician Mukhtar Ansari, a BSP lawmaker, is also behind bars. He also talked the ‘ABC’ of politics – coining ‘LAB’ to claim ‘loot, atankwaad (terrorism), bhrastachaar (corruption)’ under non BJP rule, ‘PPP’ (parivarvaad (dynastic politics), pakshpaat (nepotism) aur palayan (exodus) syndrome to describe SP rule. In contrast, BJP had “VVV” that meant focus on ‘vikas (development) aur sanskritik virasat (cultural heritage)”. Amit Shah, who is set to visit Ayodhya on Friday, said, “Akhilesh ji no power on earth can now stop a grand Ram temple from coming up.” He told the audience that this has been possible as people provided BJP with a clear majority in 2014 and 2019 Lok Sabha polls. Shah also slammed Akhilesh for praising Pakistani founder Jinnah and said in west UP, “Jinnah nahi ganne ki baat ho (talk not Jinnah but sugarcane).” “Jinnah chose Pakistan and has no business here. It’s sugarcane that matters and Yogi Adityanath government made record payment to cane farmers,” he added.
30-12-2021||Other||Kalyan Dombivli civic body registers 9 cases against those dumping waste in public||To act against those dumping waste in public places, the Kalyan-Dombivli Municipal Corporation (KDMC) has recently begun registering cases at police stations.The civic body has registered nine such cases at the Kolsewadi and Bazarpeth police stations till now.In Kalyan-Dombivli, there are several spots where regular dumping of waste on the roadside is observed, though there is no control over them. Recently, the civic body has decided to keep a watch on such spots and act on it. The civic body has registered a case against nine shopkeepers for dumping waste at Netivli naka in Kalyan (E). As per the civic body, the staff are deployed at such spots to keep a watch on dumping activity and accordingly the cases are registered.“There are several places in Kalyan-Dombivli, where people, especially the shop owners, dump waste outside their shops regularly. There is no control over them. We have identified such places and accordingly deployed our staff to keep a watch on such activities,” said Ramdas Kokre, deputy commissioner, KDMC.“When the staff find them dumping the waste in the open, they are caught red-handed and a case is registered against them,” added Kokre.Prakash Kukreja, a 30-year-old resident of Chakki Naka in Kalyan (E), said, “There is a need to have CCTV cameras installed across the city to ensure that there is no dumping activity in public places. The staff are not available for 24 hours, which is why such places are again prone to dumping of waste easily.”
30-12-2021||Other||Youth remind residents of importance of Constitution through street plays, songs||Young artistes from Kalyan, Thane and Navi Mumbai have come together to explain the importance of the Constitution of India through street plays and other folk forms like Powada and songs.Since the last one week, youngsters have been performing at various locations. They believe that to make better citizens of the country, one must know the Indian Constitution. They would continue this for another month and would also perform at various locations on the New Year’s eve.Seven group members in the age group of 25-30 years of Yug Kranti Sanskrutik Yuva Manch and Udan Shahiri Jalsa decided to start this initiative recently and after performing at least two places, they received appreciation and have also been invited to perform in different villages, cities and societies.While most youngsters all over the city are gearing up for New Year celebrations, this group is creating awareness amongst the people about their basic rights mentioned in the Constitution.Akash Pawar, a 28-year-old writer by profession, currently enrolled for Law, said, “We, as a people of this country, are literally ignoring what is being written in the Constitution for our betterment and good governance. But, due to lack of interest in knowing it, we are lagging behind. We don’t pay attention to things like whether those who are taking decisions on our behalf are fairly representing us or not, what our duties as a resident of the country are, etc. Therefore, to encourage youngsters and also in keeping touch with our authentic culture, we decided to start workshops to learn our Constitution. “As a lyricist, I and other group members who are artistes and law students, came together to frame songs to entertain people and also provide information. People liked them so much that many of them have invited us to different places to perform and also conduct workshops on the subject.”The group will start the New Year by entertaining and educating people about the same. Sharmila Joshi, a resident of Kalyan, said, “I attended the programme with my children and I feel that it is really important to reach out to people in such a manner because my children remembered some of the lines from the songs that give information about the names of our Constitution makers and the basic rights of the people of India.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/youth-remind-residents-of-importance-of-constitution-through-street-plays-songs-101640882080193.html
30-12-2021||Lucknow||Pollution control board issues notice to 23 industrial units for violating norms||The Uttar Pradesh Pollution Control Board (UPPCB) on Thursday issued notices to 23 industrial units of Lucknow and the districts nearby for allegedly violating air pollution control norms. This is the second time the board has issued notices to industrial units in November.The notices are part of the decision to implement a graded response action plan (GRAP) across the state to reduce air pollution in Uttar Pradesh in accordance with the directions of chief minister Yogi Adityanath. GRAP refers to strict curbs on activities causing air pollution and measures to improve air quality.“These industrial units were found to be conducting industrial work without adhering to guidelines. The units have also been asked to explain their action or face monetary fines,” said Ajay Sharma, member secretary, UPPCB. Most of the 15 units are in Lucknow while the rest are in Sitapur and Barabanki districts. “Earlier this month, we issued notices to 15 other industries in the region. We have received a response from eight of these units. The responses are being looked into. A 30-day period is usually provided to submit a response,” the officer added.The action is in line with the efforts of UPPCB to contain the air quality of Lucknow and nearby districts. The air quality (AQI) of Lucknow is over 200 that is considered poor.“Particulate pollution caused by illegal industrial work is a major contributor to worsening AQI. We are trying to limit this so that the air quality remains good even after the monsoon,” said the officer.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/pollution-control-board-issues-notice-to-23-industrial-units-for-violating-norms-101640881900704.html
30-12-2021||Other||Auto driver held for kidnapping, sexually abusing 10-year-old girl in Kharghar||A 23-year-old auto driver has been arrested by Kalamboli police for kidnapping and sexually abusing a 10-year-old girl.The girl was abducted from her house in Kalamboli by promising to feed her chicken and was then sexually abused inside a car in Kharghar and then abandoned. The man, identified as Prakash Chandrabhushan Bisukarma (23), found the victim and her two brothers were loitering at a fair in Kalamboli near their residence. The accused promised them to feed chicken and asked to get into his auto rickshaw.“In Kharghar, the accused stopped his auto and then took them in a car and after going a little ahead, asked the boys to get down and took the girl to Sector 3 in Kharghar, near a garage, and sexually abused her in the car,” Shivraj Patil, DCP, zone II, said.Meanwhile, the boys managed to return home and told the parents about the incident. The parents approached Kalamboli police station and reported the kidnapping of the girl. The girl who was abandoned after being sexually abused was found by another auto driver, who took her to Kharghar police station.“The Kharghar police coordinated with Kalamboli police and handed over the child. The child then told what had happened and with the help of the location where the girl was found, police started the investigations. The people near the garage had identified the accused and later he was nabbed,” Patil said.The accused who rides an auto in Kharghar and Kalamboli area and also owns a car for renting out was arrested in the wee hours of Tuesday. The incident had taken place inside his car itself. He was arrested under sections of IPC and Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act (POCSO).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/auto-driver-held-for-kidnapping-sexually-abusing-10-year-old-girl-in-kharghar-101640881839922.html
30-12-2021||Other||Navi Mumbai police increase police bandobast for New Year eve||On account of New Year, Navi Mumbai police have increased bandobast across the city and have given strict instructions to establishments to follow Covid-appropriate behaviour.Deputy Commissioner of Police, zone II, Shivraj Patil, has also conducted a meeting with the farmhouse owners.“Panvel rural has many farmhouses and people from across MMR come here for parties every year. We have conducted meetings with the farmhouse and hotel owners and served notices under 149 CrPC asking them to follow the Covid protocols strictly. No gathering should happen at the farmhouses and people visiting too should have proper social distancing. The timings need to be followed strictly. Cases against farmhouse owners will be initiated if the rules are flouted. We don’t wish to penalise people but want them to follow the rules. There are many internal roads for the farmhouses in Panvel and hence beat marshals would be present on those roads. Drunk-and-drive cases will also be acted upon,” Patil said.A similar meeting was conducted at police station levels in the zone I area of Navi Mumbai. “We are in the process of serving notices to all the establishments. We, along with Navi Mumbai Municipal Corporation staff, would be conducting various drives to make sure people follow Covid protocols. The establishments like malls, hotels and bars have been instructed to strictly verify the vaccination certificate of the people coming in. From 9pm to 6am, no more than five people are allowed to come together,” Vivek Pansare, Deputy Commissioner of Police, zone I, said.Raigad district collector, Dr. Mahendra Kalyankar, had also instructed to hold meetings at the level of sub-divisional officers and tehsildars with hotel and resort owners.“Citizens are constantly being urged to use masks, use sanitizers, observe social distance and get vaccinated through various means. The tourists visiting here are also being examined by thermal scanners and along with their vaccination certificate at various checkpoints. In some places, notice boards have been put up for Covid prevention measures. The department of health is appealing to citizens through loudspeakers. We have been appealing the same to the tourists as well who visit Alibag for parties,” Kalyankar added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/navi-mumbai-police-increase-police-bandobast-for-new-year-eve-101640881780289.html
30-12-2021||Other||Navi Mumbai NGO appeals for New Year celebrations free of alcohol||In an effort to create awareness about the evil effects of drunk-driving and to urge the residents to opt for alcohol-free New Year celebrations, Anvay Pratishthan, a city-based NGO, conducted a unique programme at Shivaji Chowk in Vashi on Wednesday afternoon.Around 15 volunteers of the NGO stood facing the road and held placards with different messages. Later, they also distributed pamphlets among the drivers and others requesting them not to indulge in alcohol and other narcotics.Ajit Magdum, director of the NGO, said, “Millions of litres of alcohol are consumed in our country every year during the New Year celebrations. Some people even drive vehicles under the influence of alcohol and thereby put their lives as well as the lives of others at risk. Therefore, the message we wanted to convey by organising the programme was ‘Welcome the New Year, but not in intoxication’.“A large number of youth consume alcohol for the first time during occasions like New Year celebrations. Studies have shown that in India, 15% to 20% youth consume alcohol just for fun at first and then turn out to be addicts at a later stage of their lives. So, we tried to explain to the people that alcohol may give one momentary pleasure but it also carries a punishment for lifetime. We also gave them an idea about the diseases that one might get due to the consumption of alcohol and other narcotics.”Anvay Pratishthan was established in 2012 with a vision to curb the menace of alcohol, tobacco and drug addiction that is crippling the youth of India. They are now operating five de-addiction centres – Vashi (NNMC Hospital), Nerul (DY Patil Hospital), Turbhe (NMMC UHC, Indira Nagar), Kalamboli (CIDCO Community Centre) and Panvel (Prabhakar Patwardhan Hospital).Eighteen trained and dedicated volunteer counsellors help operate these centres. All services to addicts including counselling, medication and follow-ups are offered free of cost.“Our services provided by Anvay centres have impacted and benefited more than 3,000 addicts, helping them to alleviate their addictions. We also keep conducting different awareness programmes for the vulnerable sections of the society including the commercial sex workers and rag-pickers,” Magdum added.
30-12-2021||Lucknow||Varanasi reports 8 new Covid cases, static testing booths activated in district again||Eight more cases of Covid-19 were confirmed in Varanasi on Thursday, bringing the total number of active cases to 16 in the district, according to data from the district health department. Chief medical officer Dr Sandip Chaudhary has called on the public to get themselves tested as soon as they experience any Covid-like symptoms. According to Chaudhary, static booths played a large role in coronavirus testing during the second wave. Furthermore, residents also benefited from the convenience of these booths. In all, 14 static booths that operated in urban and rural areas of the district during the second wave have been reactivated, he added.In the city area, six static booths include Swami Vivekananda Memorial Hospital Bhelupur, Lal Bahadur Shastri Government Hospital Ramnagar, Urban CHC Shivpur, SSPG Hospital Kabirchaura, ESIC Hospital Pandeypur and static booth BHU, while in rural areas, eight static booths include PHC Baragaon, Kashi Vidyapeeth, Sewapuri, Pindra, Harhua, Chiraigaon and CHC Cholapur and Arajiline.District surveillance officer and ACMO Dr SS Kannaujiya informed that free facility of antigen and RTPCR test is available in all these centres, whereas at the static booth in BHU free test facility for True-Nat, CB-Naat, antigen and RTPCR is available. At Swami Vivekananda Memorial Hospital Bhelupur, LBS Hospital Ramnagar, Urban CHC Shivpur and SSPG Hospital Kabirchaura, check-ups will be done from 8am to 2pm, while the facility of testing will be available at other centres from 10am to 4pm.The CMO has appealed to the people of the district that any person showing symptoms similar to Covid-19, can go to the nearest identified static booths and get tested free of cost. Along with this, if people coming from outside report positive in the investigation, should cooperate in providing their travel history and information of close contacts to the contact tracing team so that they can be tracked and tested.The CMO said, “No need to panic with the new variant of the corona. To protect against this, do not forget to wear a mask, maintain a distance of two yards and sanitise hands frequently. Along with this, get the Covid-19 vaccination done.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/varanasi-reports-8-new-covid-cases-static-testing-booths-activated-in-district-again-101640881660572.html
30-12-2021||Lucknow||Prime Minister may launch tap water facility for Bundelkhand, Vindhyachal in New Year||Prime Minister Narendra Modi could launch the tap water facility for residents of Bundelkhand and Vindhyachal regions in the New Year. Officials of the rural water supply department have nearly completed the trial run for the scheme ahead of Modi’s likely visit. “The exact date of the VIP visit is yet to be decided but it is expected to be in the initial days of the New Year. During his visit, the Prime Minister might gift tap water to lakhs of families who reside in these regions,” a senior official said, adding that the state government has already made a request to the Prime Minister’s Office (PMO) in this regard. On the occasion, the Prime Minister could also lay the foundation stone of about 8,000 drinking water schemes for 45 lakh families of 13,000 villages. Chief minister Yogi Adityanath, several of his ministers and party leaders could also be present on the occasion for the launch of the facility that the BJP is expected to market big time in the run-up to the 2022 UP polls. The official privy to the PM’s likely visit said that the rural water supply department has completed preparations to connect more than 18 lakh families with water supply in the first phase of the Har Ghar Nal Yojana under the Jal Jeevan Mission and the Centre’s Namami Gange programme.“Once water supply is operational, millions of villagers residing in hundreds of villages of Bundelkhand and Vindhyachal regions will get clean drinking water at their homes, which will also reduce the risk of waterborne diseases that they have been exposed to in the past due to non-availability of safe potable water,” the official said. “In the villages of Sonbhadra and Mirzapur districts of Vindhyachal along with seven districts of Bundelkhand, the trial run is nearly complete. Every day, dozens of villages are being connected with tap water supply in the two regions and the feeling of relief is clearly visible on the faces of the villagers,” the official said. “Under the Jal Jeevan Mission, the government has decided to provide a functional household tap connection to people through the Har Ghar Nal Yojana. Many people in Bahadurpur and Piparat villages of Lalitpur got emotional during the trial run itself as they saw water coming from taps after decades,” the official said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/prime-minister-may-launch-tap-water-facility-for-bundelkhand-vindhyachal-in-new-year-101640881540014.html
30-12-2021||Delhi||Delhi Traffic Police issues advisory for New Year||Delhi Traffic Police on Thursday said elaborate traffic arrangements have been made at and around India Gate for regulation of both pedestrian as well as vehicular traffic for New Year.Visitors are advised to avoid coming to India Gate as it is closed for public visit as construction work of Central Vista at and around India Gate is in progress, they said.The police has also warned that in case there is a heavy pedestrian movement on New Year, vehicles will not be allowed to go through C-Hexagon, India Gate area after 10:00 am and the traffic would be diverted.The divertion would be made via Q point, Round About -- MLNP, Sunheri Masjid, Maulana Azad road - Janpath, Rajpath Rafi Marg, Windsor Place, Rajindra Prasad Road-Janpath, KG Marg-Ferozeshah road, Mandi House, W-Point, Mathura Road-Purana Qila road, Mathura Road-Sher Shah Road, Subramanian Bharti Marg (SBM) - Zakir Hussain Marg, SBM-Pandara road, Madhav Rai Scindia road- Man Singh Road, according to the advisory."Strict compliance of latest DDMA orders issued will be implemented according to which all social, political, sports, entertainment, cultural, religious, festival related gatherings and congregations are prohibited throughout NCT of Delhi," said Vivek Kishore, Joint Commissioner of Police (Traffic).In view of large gathering expected at Delhi Zoo resulting in congestion on Mathura Road, the public and motorists are advised to avoid Bhairon and Mathura Road between Hazrat Nizamuddin and Pragati Maidan, the advisory stated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-traffic-police-issues-advisory-for-new-year-101640880727764.html
30-12-2021||Other||Bihar set to touch 100mn vaccination mark today||PATNA: Even as the government is gearing up to tackle the looming threat of a third wave and the new Omicron variant, the state is set to touch the 100 million mark in vaccination against Covid-19, said health officials.On Thursday, Bihar had administered over 99 million vaccinations by afternoon and hopes to touch the 100 million mark by December 31 evening, said additional chief secretary (health) Pratyaya Amrit. The state on Thursday had recorded over 600,000 vaccinations.The figures are significant as the state had initially planned 60 million doses in six months amid supply shortages in July and has almost reached the 100 million mark as supplies improved over the months, with the government making proper arrangements to take the vaccination drive to all parts of the state.“We have reached over 96.5% of the vaccination target. The Centre had given us a target to vaccinate over 73 million people between 18 and 45 years of age, but our own door-to-door survey showed the eligible population in Bihar was just over 59 million due to migration and other reasons. Out of that, we have vaccinated over 57 million, which comes to over 96.5%. If the vaccination percentage is calculated on the basis of the Centre’s target, it comes to 78%, but we cannot vaccinate the population that is not in the state. We have also apprised the Centre about it. Similarly, the second dose can be administered only to those who have taken the first dose and we are close to 90% on that count,” said Amrit.A senior health department official said that the government might announce more curbs due to ominous signs of a third wave. “It is time for utmost precaution. Things are not looking good and by mid-January Bihar, too, may start feeling the heat, as Delta variant is still being found in the state,” he added.The Bihar government is now gearing up to vaccinate those in the 15-18 age group from January 3. Vaccination camps will be organised in high and higher secondary schools and beneficiaries can get their dose either through prior registration or they can walk in, the official said.The health and education departments will carry out the exercise, involving nearly 8.5 million adolescents. Those born after 2007 and up to 18 years of age are eligible for the dose. They will be administered two doses of Covaxin at an interval of 28 days.On the day of vaccination, all the schools have been asked to organise parent-teachers meet to disseminate information about dos and don’ts in wake of a potential new wave of Covid and the advent of the highly contagious Omicron variant. Even if schools are shut due to the spread of Covid, one school in every block will be used for vaccination and one teacher of every school will be made the nodal officer for the purpose, the official added.The additional chief secretaries of health and education departments, Amrit and Sanjay Kumar have jointly written to all the district magistrates, civil surgeons, and district education officers to ensure smooth vaccination by making proper arrangements, including the availability of adequate manpower and publicity.
30-12-2021||Patna||FIR against Tej Pratap for hiding property details in poll affidavit||An FIR (first information report) has been registered against Rashtriya Janata Dal chief Lalu Prasad’s elder son Tej Pratap Yadav for failing to mention some of his immovable properties in his election affidavit filed during the 2020 assembly polls which he successfully contested from Hasanpur in Samastipur district, police said.The FIR has been lodged with Rosera police station on the statement of subdivisional officer Brajesh Kumar under section 125A of the Representation of People Act, 1951, which deals with electoral malpractices. In his complaint, the SDO has alleged that Tej Pratap, who had filed his nomination papers on October 13, 2020, as RJD candidate from Hasanpur, concealed his immovable properties in Gopalganj district. Sources said the Janata Dal (United) had lodged a complaint in this regard with chief election officer of Bihar, who forwarded the same to Election Commission of India (ECI). The national poll panel wrote to the Central Board of Direct Taxes (CBDT). After investigation, the CBDT served a show cause notice to Tej Pratap and sought a reply within three weeks, but he failed to do so. Following this, ECI ordered Samastipur district magistrate to lodge an FIR against Yadav. In 2020 polls, Yadav had wrested Hasanpur seat from sitting JD(U) MLA Raj Kumar Roy. In 2015, he had fought his maiden election from Mahua constituency in Vaishali and won. 
30-12-2021||Patna||Polls over, panchayat rule in Bihar set for overhaul||Bihar is set to transform rural governance by gearing its panchayati raj institutions (PRIs) towards delivering at the grassroots, state’s panchayati raj minister Samrat Choudhary has said.In an interview to HT, Choudhary said quality of work will also be regularly monitored and accountability ensured for every rupee spent. “The emphasis now is to work with a transparent system. Panchayati Raj Bhawans are being built so that it could work as a secretariat at the grassroots level and the people could get their work done through a centralised system in panchayats. At present, there is no proper system for audit of funds, leading to non-submission of utilisation certificates or monitoring of work being done,” the minister said.Utilisation backlogChoudhary said that the report of the comptroller and auditor general has also pointed to non-submission of utilisation certificates for around ₹37,000 crore of funds spent through PRIs. “It is important to know the trail of funds spent by PRIs, but right now there is neither any engineering cell nor any mechanism for periodic auditing. For the piped water scheme alone, the department has given ₹2000 crore to the public health engineering department for execution. More funds under different schemes are coming and efforts are on to create a system for it,” he said. The minister said the government would now appoint audit officers at the block and district levels for up-to-date figures at the state level. “Now we are creating an engineering cell for executing and monitoring work, which will also track the fund flow for different schemes. There are also efforts to reduce red tape by appointing dedicated officers. The panchayati raj officers have already been notified as the new executive officers of panchayat samitis, replacing the block development officers (BDOs). Now the role of district development commissioners (DDCs) will also be curtailed with CEOs in place,” he said.Quality controlQuality has been a major constraint for the work being carried out in the panchayats and blocks, be it is the tap water scheme or the construction of rural drainage and roads. The minister said the quality aspect would be taken care of with the constitution of state quality monitor (SQM), which would supervise and inspect work down to the block and panchayat level.“The SQM will comprise retired officials from the administration and engineering fields. We have already created 131 posts. Besides, there will be 8,000 executive officers. When I assumed the charge of the department in February 2019, there were around 4,000, which will bow be increased to 8000 so that complaint redressal at the panchayat level is never disrupted due to deputation of officers for elections, Covid or any other requirement. We are also going to get 3000 more panchayat sevaks within a month in addition to around 3000 already there,” he said.The minister said that the department has also decided to ensure that the panchayat secretariat runs properly. “There will be schedule for officers from various departments to address people’s complaints and issues on assigned dates and carry forward real development work, which will pick up momentum in the coming years,” Choudhary said. Increased fund flow The minister said that under the 15th Finance Commission, the Centre would give Bihar ₹1000 crore through the panchayati raj department every year for the next five years to cater to healthcare needs in the rural areas. This will involve setting up primary health centres (PHCs), additional PHCs and health centres as well as supply of medicines. “At present, we get the work done through health department on the recommendation of the local MLAs. Now we are making provisions so that the work could be done directly through the department. The idea is to make panchayat government fully functional and accountable,” he said.Eco-friendly The department has embarked on an ambitious mission to revitalise wells and around 82,000 of them have been identified for the purpose. The minister said all new Panchayat Bhawans would now use fly ash bricks and blocks only. Earlier, traditional bricks were used, which were not eco-friendly. “Each Panchayat Bhawan costs around ₹1-1.5 crore. Around 3,000 Panchayat Bhawans are being built and more will be required. Environment protection requires major work and that can be done at the panchayat level only,” he said. 
30-12-2021||Patna||A tumultuous year for alliances in Bihar||After decimating the opposition in Lok Sabha polls in the first half of 2019 and barely managing to form the government in 2020 in state, the National Democratic Alliance (NDA) in Bihar was suddenly beset with numerous problems in 2021. For the Opposition Mahaghatbhandhan (Grand Alliance), the year proved to be tumultuous, with two major players of the alliance, the Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD) and the Congress, all but snapping ties. The year also saw former Union minister Ram Vilas Paswan’s legacy split into two. The Lok Janshakti Party formed by Paswan was divided into two – the LJP (Ram Vilas) headed by his son Chirag Paswan and the LJP (National) headed by his brother and union minister Pashupati Kumar Paras --- barely eight months after his death.The ruling allianceThe 2020 assembly polls, which saw Nitish Kumar’s Janata Dal (United) underperform and BJP becoming a senior partner in the alliance, opened a new chapter in the relation between the two parties and the beginning of differences. After assembly elections, chief minister Nitish Kumar started facing more opposition from ally BJP than the opposition. To be sure, the alliance saw some friction in the past too, but the current scenario is unprecedented. BJP leaders and ministers publicly denounce the policies of a government of which they are a part. Senior NDA leaders say the baton of BJP is slowly passing on to an “aggressive bunch of young leaders” and “no longer seasoned BJP leaders like Sushil Kumar Modi and Nand Kishor Yadav are involved to modulate the pronouncements of party members.”What has added to the bitterness is the recent Niti Aayog report ranking, which puts Bihar as the poorest state. It irked the JD (U) to no end, forcing it to renew its demand for the special status. BJP only rubbed it in, with its ministers, including deputy CM Renu Devi, dismissing the demand. Differences between the two also surfaced in the Lok Sabha when BJP MP Ram Kripal Yadav said the Bihar government was lagging behind in completing road projects under the Pradhan Mantri Gram Sadak Yojana (PMGSY). Union minister for rural development Giriraj Singh also quoted statistics to back Yadav’s claims, leaving JD(U) leaders fuming. Not only that, the BJP has been targeting government on prohibition too and demands were raised from saffron party for the review of the policy.However, the spokespersons – BJP’s Prem Ranjan Patel and JD (U)’s Neeraj Kumar — downplayed the differences. “Such differences are there in every alliances,” said Patel. “These things won’t affect health of the government,” said Neeraj Kumar, an MLA.The two parties, though, presented a united face during the bypolls for two assembly seats which JD (U) won.The Opposition allianceThe relation between the two main partners, Congress and RJD, hit a rock bottom during the bypolls with angry exchanges. Congress’s Bihar in-charge Bhakt Charan Das, who was at the receiving end of the RJD’s diatribe, even announced snapping of ties with the RJD. The differences between the two arose over distribution of two seats. Congress wanted to contest Kusheshwar Asthan seat, leaving Tarapur for the RJD. The two contested independently and both lost, adding to the blame game. Lalu Prasad’s return to Bihar politics after more than three years did not help the RJD’s cause. Prasad addressed two election meetings but failed to swing it in RJD’s favour, leaving people wondering if he had lost his charisma. Congress, already reeling under the impact of its dismal performance in assembly polls, sunk further. However, the party, has resolved to strengthen its moribund organization “The by-elections taught us the lesson that we need to work on our organisation in Bihar. We are going to do that in the two-and-a-half years that remain before the country goes to polls,” AICC general secretary Tariq Anwar said.Split in LJPThe biggest drama of the year came from the LJP, which split into two parties. Chirag Paswan-led LJP (RV), in which he is the lone MP, did not cause any worry for JD (U) this time as compared to 2020 assembly polls. Paras, who enjoys the support of five of the six LJP MPs elected in 2019, managed to get a berth in the union cabinet.It remains to be seen which of the two factions inherits the political capital of Ram Vilas Paswan. 
30-12-2021||Patna||8 women injured in stampede for fertilizer||At least eight women were injured, two of them critically, in a stampede while purchasing fertilizers at Narpatganj in Bihar’s Araria district on Thursday morning, police said.The two critically injured have been admitted at Araria district hospital while others are undergoing treatment at Narpatganj primary health centre (PHC).According to police, hundreds of farmers had gathered at the Narpatganj High School Ground allegedly at the directive of the district administration to procure urea.“There was no one there. While entering the school premises to purchase urea, the crowd went berserk, which led to a stampede,” said one of the farmers present there.The farmers vandalised the school properties and later blocked the National Highway-57 in protest.Araria district magistrate (DM) Prashanth Kumar C H and district agriculture officer (DAO) Manoj Kumar did not respond to calls. Forebesganj subdivisional police officer (SDPO) Ram Pukar Singh, who rushed to the site after the incident, said, “The situation has been restored to normalcy, and fertilizer is being distributed peacefully. A few women were injured in the stampede and they are undergoing treatment.”Bihar has been facing an unprecedented shortage of fertilizers, such as urea, and has witnessed several demonstrations for a month.Kaimur’s district agriculture officer Rewati Raman said he has informed the department about the urea crisis and has requested immediate supply.Chandradeo Prasad, district agriculture officer (DAO), East Champaran, on Thursday said the district has received a mere 24,000 metric tonnes (MTs) of urea as against the requirement of 62,000 MT. “The supply received is a mere 40% of the requirement. We are constantly following up for the replenishment,” said Prasad.Vijay Prakash, district agriculture officer (DAO), West Champaran, however, said, “Urea is available in adequate quantity. We are set to receive the next consignment on January 2 and 5.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/8-women-injured-in-stampede-for-fertilizer-101640880101144.html
30-12-2021||Patna||10-year-old shot dead in school ground||BETTIAH A 10-year-old boy was shot dead for allegedly refusing to vacate a school ground he and others were playing in at a village in Bihar’s West Champaran district on Wednesday evening, police said.“We have already arrested two assailants and a search for two others is on,” said Mukul Parimal Pandey, subdivisional police officer (SDPO), Bettiah.Police said the boy was playing in the ground of a local government school along with other children in Srinagar village when four men arrived there and asked them to leave. While others left, the boy refused, after which they trained an airgun at him. The gun went off, killing the boy instantly,” said the SDPO.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/10yearold-shot-dead-in-school-ground-101640880099835.html
30-12-2021||Delhi||With 1,313 new Covid cases, Delhi sees record single-day spike since May 26||Delhi on Thursday witnessed an enormous jump in single-day Covid-19 cases with as many as 1,313 infections, according to the health bulletin data. This is the biggest jump in daily caseload since May 26 when 1,491 cases were recorded. Following this, the overall Covid-19 tally of the national capital climbed to 14,46,415.The city has been seeing no fatality due to the virus for the last two days, which has kept the death toll consistent at 25,107. Delhi has so far reported as many as nine deaths due to coronavirus this month, which is the highest monthly toll in four months.Thursday's figures are a huge jump of 390 cases from the 923 infections logged in the preceding day. Meanwhile, the case positivity rate of the national capital has also shot up from yesterday's 1.29% to 1.73% today, the health bulletin data revealed.The only good sign in the current Covid-19 situation in the city is the new recoveries being recorded on a daily basis. On Thursday, Delhi recorded 423 fresh recoveries, up from 344 on Wednesday. With this, the total number of patients who have recovered from the virus has increased to 14,18,227.The consistent spike in daily case count in Delhi comes amid the Omicron variant, which has triggered alarm across the country. India's Omicron tally has reached 1,159 after Maharashtra reported a total of 198 fresh cases of the new strain of Covid-19 during the day. The western state's Omicron tally has now shot up to 450 and it is followed by Delhi at 263.The Delhi government has issued a ‘yellow alert’ in the city, which has kept schools, colleges, cinemas and gyms shut. It has also imposed a night curfew between 10pm and 5am. The order issued by the Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) has also directed bars and restaurants to function at 50% seating capacity. These directions have been imposed ahead of New Year in order to contain the rising Covid-19 cases and Omicron outbreak.In another DDMA meeting on Wednesday, chaired by Delhi's Lieutenant Governor Anil Baijal, it was decided not to impose fresh restrictions in the national capital and continue with the ‘yellow alert’.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/with-1-313-new-covid-cases-delhi-sees-record-single-day-spike-since-may-26-101640877129516.html
30-12-2021||Lucknow||Cops told to be polite while implementing Covid guidelines at Magh Mela in Prayagraj||Policemen posted on duty at Magh Mela-2022 have been instructed to be polite and courteous while interacting with pilgrims and visitors during the annual religious fair and at the same time be firm in implementing Covid guidelines in the wake of Omicron threat. The annual Magh Mela is set to kick-start from January 14/15 on the banks of Sangam and is likely to be attended by lakhs of devotees on main bathing days from all over the country.Security personnel required for Mela duty have already arrived for their duties and all police stations are now functional. They have been assigned their duties at police stations from where they will be deployed at ghats and other places. On peak days, the deployment of cops will be done centrally, officials said.ADG zone Prem Prakash while addressing policemen during a training said cops should not misbehave with pilgrims or talk to them in rude manner but help them in all possible ways.IG Rakesh Singh said responsibility of peaceful and safe conclusion of Magh Mela rests on the shoulders of cops. All policemen, who are assigned duties in Mela, should deliver them with honesty and determination.SSP Sarvshreshtha Tripathi said Magh Mela is the place of faith and religion and cops deployed here should deliver their duties with a sense of service.SP Mela Rajeev Narayan Mishra said cops have been tasked with implementation of Covid protocols as it was necessary for saving lives of pilgrims. “Public address systems will be used for creating awareness among the pilgrims. Masks will be distributed and people will be motivated to use them and maintain distance at ghats and other places in Mela area to remain safe from Covid infection. However, protocols will be enforced and appropriate action will also be taken if necessary,” he said.SP Mela further said a distance of 6 kilometers has been made at different ghats to reduce density of crowd during main bathing days. “RTPCR tests of all security personnel and kalpwasis will be carried out and anyone found having symptoms of Covid will be isolated as per the guidelines. Covid test of boatmen will also be ensured for safety of pilgrims. Moreover, thermal scanning of pilgrims and visitors at mela area will be ensured at all 16 entry points in mela area with the help of health workers,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/cops-told-to-be-polite-while-implementing-covid-guidelines-at-magh-mela-in-prayagraj-101640877882297.html
30-12-2021||Lucknow||Professor of Barabanki college among five held in kidnap and murder case||LUCKNOW Five people, including a professor of Barabanki polytechnic college, were arrested for their alleged role in the murder and kidnapping of a medical institute employee, who was missing for 12 days, said police on Thursday.The victim Sri Ram Yadav, 40, a Class IV employee at Dr Ram Manohar Lohia Institute of Medical Sciences, was staying on the campus along with his wife Sangeeta Yadav, 35. He was missing since December 18.Investigation revealed that his wife and her paramour, Avshisht Kumar, 40, a professor in polytechnic college in Jahangirabad (Barabanki) allegedly murdered Yadav after kidnapping him with the help of three associates, said Chandra Shekhar Singh, inspector, Vibuti Khand police station. Those arrested were Avshisht Kumar, one Sushil Kumar and his girlfriend Kunti, Santosh Kumar and the victim’s wife Sangeeta Yadav. They were booked under sections 364 (for kidnapping), 302 (for murder) and 201 (for concealment of evidence) of the IPC and on charges of possessing illegal firearms, said police.The inspector said Avshisht approached Sri Ram as a prospective buyer of his car that he wanted to sell out and took him along for a test ride. With the help of his accomplice Sushil Kumar and his girlfriend Kunti, Avshisht allegedly shot Sri Ram dead after taking him to a deserted stretch near Kursi road and later disposed of his body into Indira Canal with help of another accomplice Santosh Kumar, who along with Sushil Kumar, runs a fishery business near the polytechnic college, said Singh.He said the victim’s wife, who was part of the entire conspiracy, had an extramarital affair with Avshisht and eloped with him nearly five months ago after Sri Ram came to know about their relationship. The woman had returned to her husband’s house after family pressure but was still in touch with Avshisht. Avshisht and Sangeeta allegedly planned the conspiracy as Sri Ram was mounting pressure on her to end her relationship with the professor, said police.The victim’s car was found abandoned near Kurauli on link road alongside Faizabad highway on December 22, after his wife lodged an FIR at Vibhuti Khand police station on December 19 regarding his disappearance.The arrested accused revealed that they had purchased three illegal firearms from a Barabanki-based arms dealer, BP Singh, for ₹50,000 a few days before committing the crime. The weapon used in the crime had been recovered from their hideout in Chinhat and efforts were on to trace the firearms dealer, said the inspector.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/professor-of-barabanki-college-among-five-held-in-kidnap-and-murder-case-101640877759784.html
30-12-2021||Lucknow||Upward trend: 193 fresh Covid cases in Uttar Pradesh||LUCKNOW The Covid-19 tally continued to show an upward trend in Uttar Pradesh as 193 fresh cases were reported, taking the number of active cases under treatment to 645 on Thursday.There were 40 new cases in the state on December 27, 80 on December 28 and 118 on December 29. Lucknow reported 25 fresh Covid cases for the second consecutive day. “A total of 1,86,552 Covid samples were tested in the state and 193 new cases were reported,” said Amit Mohan Prasad, additional chief secretary, medical health, in a press statement. The test positivity rate in the past 24 hours was 0.01 % and the overall test positivity rate in Uttar Pradesh was 1.85%, said Prasad. The recovery rate in the state was 98.6% while there were no active Covid cases in 18 districts. “No new case was found in 43 districts during the last 24 hours,” he added. According to health department data, 86.14% of the eligible population in UP had received their first dose of Covid vaccine and 48.68% their second dose as well. “In the past two weeks, there have been a few episodes where one family member got the infection first and then others in the family too tested positive for Covid. This calls for more attention towards Covid protocol, when in home isolation,” said Dr Abhishek Shukla, secretary general, Association of International Doctors. The fresh cases in Lucknow included eight members of two families and two others who returned from Dubai. These two individuals, natives of Azamgarh and Deoria, gave their samples at the airport and tested positive for Covid, said officials. Besides, 11 others who tested positive had returned from Punjab, Maharashtra, Uttarakhand and New Delhi. Four Lucknowites, who wanted to travel outside the state, also tested positive after they gave samples. RISING NUMBERS IN STATEDec 27: 40 new cases Dec 28: 80 new cases Dec 29: 118 new cases Dec 30: 193 new cases||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/upward-trend-193-fresh-covid-cases-in-uttar-pradesh-101640877159604.html
30-12-2021||Chandigarh||Khattar plays down row over home portfolio||Playing down the row over the move to divest his cabinet colleague Anil Vij of the home portfolio, Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar on Thursday said Vij is a senior person and a good friend.“We have a good communication and talk to each other in a frank manner. At times, he says whatever he feels like and so do I. Neither do I get worried over it nor does he,” Khattar told a group of women journalists in New Delhi on Thursday.Anil Vij had told HT on Wednesday that he had offered to resign from Haryana council of ministers on Tuesday after the chief minister expressed his intent to divest him of the home department, a key portfolio Khattar wanted for himself.Vij said he was initially told by the chief minister that he will have to shed one portfolio for allocating it to newly-inducted cabinet minister Kamal Gupta, which he readily agreed to.“But then, the CM told me that he also wanted the charge of home department for himself. So, I told the CM that I was ready to relinquish the charge of all portfolios and will give this in writing to the governor,” Vij had said.Following portfolio reallocation on Wednesday, Vij now holds charge of home, health, medical education and research, Ayush, technical education and science and technology departments. The urban local bodies portfolio held by him was allocated to newly-inducted minister Kamal Gupta.The home minister, however, on Thursday said allocation of portfolios was the sole prerogative of the CM and he has no issues with it.“I am saying this again. I have no desire to cling to power or positions of authority. I am quite happy and contended being a BJP worker and work for the people,” Vij said.“Everyday people from across the state come to me with their grievances. I attend to them in Ambala in the morning and later at my office in Chandigarh and try to redress their problems,” he added.With the chief minister seeking to bury the controversy on Thursday, it is apparent that the home portfolio will continue to remain in the hands of Vij, as of now.
30-12-2021||Chandigarh||New Year resolutions that don’t go poof!||On New Year’s Eve, it’s time for all those jokes and memes to do the rounds on social media platforms. One such meme that never fails to tickle my ribs is where a cartoon character asks another, “What is a New Year resolution?” “It’s a ‘To Do’ list for the first week of January.” Ever since I was exposed to the concept of New Year resolutions in childhood, I’ve been making and breaking them with equal gusto. One such New Year, I promised to brush my teeth regularly at night but when night came it brought along with it the lure of the warm bed and my lazy bones preferred to surrender to its charm. After all, I’m a lesser mortal who has to succumb to the demands of Hypnos, the God of Sleep. I also made numerous resolutions, such as to read 100 books a year; to polish my school shoes every night before going to bed; to eat healthy; and the most fragile yet favourite one of all, to lose weight. Needless to say, my gluttony ensured that the resolution went poof in thin air at the sight of divine pastries and sumptuous cakes gifted by nefarious relatives and friends who care two hoots for your grit and determination. But this time, the story took a different turn. The past two years have been extremely agonising with the Covid pandemic spreading its tentacles all around the world and snuffing out lives. The coming New Year, too, shows little signs of uplifting the pall of gloom. Amid all this pessimism, I decided to take up a spiritual resolution. I made a resolve to stay happy at all cost and focus on my core strength instead of trying to obliterate my weaknesses. The initial few months of 2021 were tough and traumatising with external pressures testing and trying both my will and resolve. But this year, my fortitude supported me and every time I was ready to cower down, I joined hands and muttered a silent prayer to the Omnipotent, “Lord, I do not ask for anything but for the peace of mind.” With peace restored in my heart, I decided to give up all those pursuits that were bogging me down. I broke the shackles of my own limitations and embarked upon a journey that led me to the path of self-discovery. I recognised that with self-discovery came self-realisation and fulfillment of all those dreams that once were cherished but left mid-way due to distractions galore. On my way to self-actualisation, I thanked Mr Phunsuk Wangdu, the adorable character played by Aamir Khan in the movie 3 Idiots who gave the mool mantra to follow one’s dreams and not run after success: Do what you love and success will follow in its wake. I followed my dreams and sat down to finish my second collection of stories, On the Wings of Wrath, a phrase popularised by German poet Bertolt Brecht. I now look back at the year fleeting by with much content and happiness. I feel I have earned a pat on the back for sticking to this year’s resolution. Have you decided upon your New Year Resolution for the coming year? Make one that doesn’t go poof! sonrok15@gmail.comThe writer is an assistant professor of English at SD College in Ambala||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/new-year-resolutions-that-don-t-go-poof-101640875239309.html
30-12-2021||Gurugram||Disruption of Xmas event at Gurugram school was unfortunate: Manohar Lal Khattar||New Delhi: Days after a Hindu group disrupted a Christmas event at a primary school in Haryana’s Pataudi, chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar said the incident was “unfortunate’” and shouldn’t have happened.On Christmas Day, a group called Dharam Jagriti Mission, disrupted a congregation gathered to celebrate the day through song, dance and teachings of the Bible, local residents said on condition of anonymity. Children and women had gathered for the event, when a group of men barged inside the hall and stopped the programme, they said. There were no arrests and no police action because they said that no complaint had been registered.When the chief minister was asked about the ruckus created by the group at the school and the disruption of Friday prayers, and the impact of this on Haryana’s image, he said during an interaction with members of the Indian Women’s Press Corp, “It shouldn’t have happened. If people have a problem with any event, they should talk it out and resolve it.”The chief minister also has an optimistic outlook on the impact of the recent farm agitation after the repeal of the three laws. “Many people think that the PM can be kathor (harsh) but his decision to repeal shows that he is not. He realised that it was not being accepted in certain quarters and so took it back,” said Khattar, adding that the overall impact was going to be beneficial for the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP).The three farm laws were repealed this month by Parliament after the Prime Minister’s announcement and a yearlong agitation by farmers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/disruption-of-xmas-event-at-gurugram-school-was-unfortunate-manohar-lal-khattar-101640874939345.html
30-12-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai's single-day Covid caseload surpasses 3,500-mark, 45% hike from yesterday||Mumbai's daily Covid-19 cases on Thursday surpassed the 3500-mark after the city logged as many as 3,671 infections, according to the health bulletin data shared by the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC). Today's figures show a 45% jump from yesterday when 2,510 fresh Covid-19 cases were reported, the BMC data showed.The active caseload of the financial capital of India currently stands at 11,360 while the growth rate of the virus between December 23 and 29 reached 0.14%. However, Mumbai on Thursday didn't report any fresh fatality due to Covid-19 unlike the preceding when one patient succumbed to the virus. With this, the death toll of the city remains at 16,375, BMC data revealed.A total of 371 new recoveries were recorded in Mumbai on Thursday, which took the total number of recovered patients to 749,159.The spike in single-day caseload in Mumbai comes amid Maharashtra being one of the two most-affected regions in India by the Omicron variant of Covid-19, after Delhi. The western state has so far reported 252 Omicron cases, with a total of 85 logged on Wednesday. Delhi, on the other hand, has till now confirmed 263 cases of the new variant of concern of Covid-19.Also Read | Sharp increase in Covid cases in 3-4 days, 22 districts concerning: CentreOf the 252 Omicron cases detected in Maharashtra, as many as 137 have been contributed by Mumbai.Earlier in the day, the Union health ministry during a press briefing mentioned that the country is witnessing an uptick in cases with Delhi, Maharashtra, particularly Mumbai, Punjab, Haryana, Jharkhand, Chhattisgarh, West Bengal and Gujarat showing concerns. Maharashtra is also among the states with most number of active coronavirus cases.In wake of this surge, the Maharashtra government has imposed multiple curbs, including banning gathering of more than five people between 9pm and 6am. In Mumbai, prohibitory orders under Section 144 has been imposed till January 7 and public gatherings in open or closed spaces due to New Year have also been banned. As per the new order, gathering at hotels, bars, pubs, restaurants and clubs, among others, are also prohibited.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbais-single-day-covid-caseload-surpasses-3-500-mark-45-hike-from-yesterday-101640872679253.html
30-12-2021||Pune||Pune needs coaches who can channelise talent: Sanjay Sharma||PUNE Pune is the birthplace of badminton, and it also has a good infrastructure, but it is yet to make a mark at the international level when it comes to producing top-class shuttlers.Sanjay Sharma, former Indian captain, coach, writer, author and TV commentator, who was in the city on Thursday, feels Pune needs coaches who are ‘best’ and who can channelise talent.“In Pune, there is no shortage of talent. In our time as well, there were good players, the Badminton Association of India (BAI) has also done its bit,” he said.Nandu Natekar, in badminton, dominated the world stage from 1950 to 1970. The Pune resident became the first Indian player to win an international event when he won Sellanger International in Malaysia in 1956. “I feel coaches should have ‘mission’ and ‘profession’ – so if I am giving you coaching then yes I am coaching you but my mission should be every time you come to play, there should be some improvement every day that should be your motivation as the coach,” explains Sharma who launched his book – Match Point: A Shuttlers Story on December 2.“During my coaching stint, I always maintained that If I am a world no 14 doubles player in my time, then you should be at least 13, then I will have that satisfaction that I am doing my work properly. I think Pune is not getting that sort of coach. Pune association should get somebody to channelise the talent, and they should get a coach with a ‘mission’,” added Sharma, who hails Pune’s badminton infrastructure as one of the best in the country.Strong Bench strength: Key to successSharma stressed that BAI should focus on strengthening the bench strength. “You need to have a lot of bench strength, so when we talk about PV Sindhu and Saina Nehwal, after that, there is a big vacuum. Not so much in men’s singles, as we have got Srikanth Kidambi, HS Prannoy, Lakshya Sen, Verma brothers (Sameer and Sourabh); we have two more three youngsters in the queue.”“In last two-three years, we have found depth in men’s doubles with Satwiksairaj Rankireddy and Chirag Shetty, Dhruv Kapila and MR Arjun so we have got strong players,” added Sharma who want BAI to focus on finding more women singles player who can share to load from PV Sindhu and Saina Nehwal.We need more academiesAccording to Sharma, there is a need for more than four to five academies like Pullela Gopichand Academy and Prakash Padukone academy.“You require four-five more world-class academies. The competition between academies will help raise the standards of the players. BAI is working on it, and they have their academy in Assam, and they are also working to create academies at other places as it is critical,” added the 65-year-old.India should aim at winning major tournaments“For Thomas Cup, Uber Cup and Sudirman Cup – there should be some think tank on deciding who is going to play, how long they are going to play when they will take a rest. Such things have not yet come in from BAI, and we must think and work along those lines,” he said.“This is the year we should eye Thomas Cup, the biggest prize in badminton– we have three singles good players and bench strength, two doubles and one more doubles player pair can get in by May-June this year, and we have a strong chance of upsetting anybody in Thomas Cup. We need to plan out in advance,” added Sharma.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pune-needs-coaches-who-can-channelise-talent-sanjay-sharma-101640874819411.html
30-12-2021||Pune||Two-wheeler riders flout traffic norms, risk lives at accident spot near Navale bridge chowk||PUNE Major traffic violations occur at the tragic accident spot near the Bhumkar bridge near Navale bridge chowk on the bypass highway. Here two-wheelers ride into the ‘no entry’ zone on the wrong side of the bypass highway increasing the chances of an accident.Despite repeated action taken by the Pune traffic police department, commuters risk lives to save time.“If we want to go to the nearby Navale bridge chowk, rather than to take the long turn from opposite side many people on the two-wheelers go through the wrong way. To save time people risk their lives,” said Sunny Navghane, a nearby resident.On December 28, a speeding truck carrying industrial equipment from Pimpri to Satara, hurtled down almost 600m in a reverse mode on the Bhumkar bridge near Navale bridge chowk on the bypass highway, running over three people and hitting a car and two SUVs before coming to a halt at 9 am on Tuesday morning.In the accident, Hemant Yashwant Talale (27) and Chetan Ramesh Solanki (31), both residents of Narhe, and Nitin Chandrakant Dhawale (29) of Shivane were run over by the truck.Atul Namekar, secretary of Sinhagad road-Warje residents association, said, “It is not the only duty of traffic police or civic body to provide infrastructure or take action on violators but people should themselves realise the risk of riding on wrong side of the road and that too on the bypass highway which has round the clock traffic.”“We try to create awareness among people through social media and other forms of communication, but many are ignorant,” he said.Vijay Chaudhary, assistant commissioner of police (traffic), said, “Our traffic police personnel take action against people who come in the no-entry or wrong side through the bypass highway. But people should follow traffic rules for their own safety.”Meanwhile, the driver of the heavy vehicle truck who dashed three-person and several other vehicles on Tuesday was arrested by the Sinhagad police on Thursday. The process of lodging a first information report (FIR) against him is in process and further investigation is going on in the case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/twowheeler-riders-flout-traffic-norms-risk-lives-at-accident-spot-near-navale-bridge-chowk-101640874219679.html
30-12-2021||Pune||Genome sequencing report indicates spread of Omicron variant at local level||PUNE The rise in Covid-19 cases with some of them detected with the Omicron variant has prompted experts to believe the new variant has spread at the community level.On Wednesday, Maharashtra reported 85 cases of Omicron variant, 38 cases of them are from community surveillance. Based on the report experts predicted Omicron’s spread at the community level. As per the preliminary information these 38 cases do not have a history of any international travel.“We have started community surveillance in Mumbai and Pune. Out of these 85 samples in which Omicron has been identified, 38 samples were picked up as a part of community surveillance. Primarily there is no history of international travel in these cases. We may need to take detailed information on this. But based on the report, we can say that local transmission of Omicron is being spotted,” said Dr Pradip Awate, state surveillance officer in a video message.Of the 38 Omicron cases from community surveillance 19 are from Mumbai, five from Kalyan-Dombivali, three each from Navi Mumbai and Pimpri-Chinchwad, two each from Vasai Virar and Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) and one each from Pune rural, Bhiwandi Nizampur, Panvel and Thane Municipal Corporation limits.Dr Shashank Joshi, a member of the State Covid-19 task force, attributed the huge surge in Covid-19 cases in Mumbai to the Omicron variant.“In Mumbai, we are reasonably certain with indirect evidence that the current wave is being driven by Omicron. We will avail confirmation with the genomic sequencing labs. There is a mild nature of the disease. There is rapid doubling time, and also the cluster outbreaks are witnessed. In the first week of December, we were reporting 150 cases, then 1,336 Covid-19 cases jumped to 2,500 cases, and the Covid-19 cases had reached the number of 1336 within three days from 600 cases. Clearly, this doubling and double doubling pattern that this is an Omicron like variant which is driving the current trend,” said Dr Shashank Joshi, in an interview with a private news channel.Earlier the directorate of health services had issued a letter stating that community surveillance on the emergence of the Omicron variant will be carried out from December 21 to 31. Daily positive samples of RT-PCR from PMC, Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC) and Mumbai are being collected and sent for genome sequencing.According to experts though the cases have been increasing, no exponential rise in hospitalisations has been recorded and which is a good thing.“Good news is that this infection is mild. On Wednesday, in Mumbai 2,500 Covid-19 cases were reported, but most of these cases are asymptomatic. It is a good thing that symptoms are mild, hospitalisation is less and mortality is less. But still, we need to take precautions to avoid its spread,” said Dr Pradip Awate.While mentioning that the delta variant is still in existence, Dr Joshi said that it is important to identify which variant has caused the infection.“We still get severe disease or hospitalisations, but they are largely driven by Delta variant. That is our current worry. Because we are in the transition time, it is important to identify whether it is Omicron or Delta variant. Let’s hope that Omicron replaces Delta variant. We need data to suggest that. We will have clear answers in a week or two whether a replacement has happened. Till that time, it will be all informed speculations or clinical judgements,” said Dr Joshi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/genome-sequencing-report-indicates-spread-of-omicron-variant-at-local-level-101640873979242.html
30-12-2021||Chandigarh||J&K Police’s SIA files chargesheet against Hurriyat leader, 8 others for ‘selling’ MBBS seats||The special investigation agency (SIA) of Jammu and Kashmir Police filed its first chargesheet against nine people, including a Hurriyat leader, in a case related to “selling” of MBBS seats in Pakistan to Kashmiri students and using the money to support and fund terrorism, officials said on Thursday.The case was registered by the Counter Intelligence Kashmir (CIK), a branch of the police’s CID, in July last year after receiving information through reliable sources that several unscrupulous people, including some Hurriyat leaders, were hand in glove with some educational consultancies and were “selling” Pakistan-based MBBS seats and seats in other professional courses in colleges and universities.The CIK, which has been designated as the SIA now, filed its chargesheet before a court against Mohammad Akbar Bhat alias Zaffar Akbar Bhat, the chairman of Salvation Movement, a constituent of hardline Hurriyat Conference.Others named in the chargesheet are Abdul Jabbar, Fatima Shah, Altaf Ahmad Bhat Qazi Yasir, Mohammad Abdullah Shah, Sabzar Ahmad Sheikh, Manzoor Ahmad Shah, Syed Khalid Geelani and Mohd Iqbal Mir of Mahaz Azadi Front.During investigation, oral, documentary and technical evidence was collected and in analysis it surfaced that MBBS and other professional degrees-related seats were preferentially given to those students who were close family members or relatives of killed terrorists, they said.Evidence also came on record to show that money had been put into channels that ended up supporting programmes and projects pertaining to terrorism and separatism, which included the unrest after the killing of Burhan Wani, the poster boy of banned Hizbul Mujahideen terror group, in 2016.The money was also used in failed efforts to disrupt peace after the abrogation of the erstwhile state’s special status in August, 2019.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/jk-police-s-sia-files-charge-sheet-against-hurriat-leader-8-others-for-selling-mbbs-seats-101640873078405.html
30-12-2021||Mumbai||Two get life for killing man outside Churchgate station||Mumbai: The Mumbai sessions court on Thursday sentenced two transwomen to life imprisonment and acquitted one, for killing a 30-year-old man outside Churchgate railway station in January 2016. On Thursday, additional sessions judge Dr U J More convicted and sentenced Payal and Koyal, who identify as transwomen, to life imprisonment and imposed a fine of ₹10,000 on each of them. The court also acquitted Samira due to lack of evidence. The court observed that the accused repeatedly assaulted the deceased, Manda Kale. “They gave repeated fist and kick blows with great force till the man became unconscious,” the court observed. “Both the accused knew that this repeated fist and kick blows would kill him. They had knowledge that their act was so imminently dangerous that it would in all probability cause death or severe bodily injuries,” the court said. One of the accused defended herself stating that Kale had molested her. Venkatesh Kale, the brother of the deceased took Kale to Gokuldas Tejpal Hospital, where the doctors informed him that Kale had suffered severe internal injuries and one of his intestines was ruptured. The victim later succumbed to his injuries. Arguing for the prosecution, assistant public prosecutor Iqbal Solkar submitted eyewitness accounts as well as Closed Circuit Television Camera (CCTV) footage that showed the accused assaulting the victim.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/two-get-life-for-killing-man-outside-churchgate-station-101640872538958.html
30-12-2021||Kolkata||No direct flights from the UK to land in Kolkata from Monday, orders West Bengal||KOLKATA: The West Bengal government on Thursday suspended all direct flights from the United Kingdom from Monday, January 3, an order by the state home department on Thursday said. The government also decided that all international passengers will also have to undergo a Rapid Antigen Test on arrival.“In view of the rising number of Omicron cases globally as well within the country, the state government has decided to temporarily and until further orders suspend all direct flights from United Kingdom to Kolkata with effect from January 3, 2022,” said an order issued on Thursday by the state home department. HT has reviewed a copy of the order. The bar on flights from the UK will apply “till further orders”.“The union civil aviation ministry seeks a NOC from the respective state governments before allowing any flights to land in the state. Now that the West Bengal government has suspended flights from the UK, the ministry will suspend them too,” said C Pattabhi, Kolkata airport director.West Bengal has reported 11 Omicron cases so far, and the new Covid-19 cases being reported every day have doubled over the past week. On Wednesday, the state government crossed the 1,000-mark. In all, the state has 7,727 active casesThursday’s order also said that flights, which is coming from an ‘at risk country’ as notified by the union health ministry will not be allowed in the state and any NOCs which have been issued stand withdrawn. As of now, the UK was the only country out of the current list of ‘at risk’ countries from where flights land in Kolkata. Apart from the UK, this list includes countries in Europe, South Africa, Brazil, Botswana, China, Ghana, Mauritius, New Zealand, Zimbabwe, Tanzania, Hong Kong, and Israel.“Further, with effect from January 3, 2022 all passengers coming from other ‘non at-risk’ countries will have to mandatorily undergo a test on arrival at their cost,” the order said. The airlines will randomly select 10% of the passengers for RT-PCR test and the rest 90% would have to undergo Rapid Antigen Test on arrival. Passengers will have to mandatorily pre-book the test before boarding to reduce waiting time on arrival. “The maximum number of Covid-19 cases are being detected among passengers coming from the UK. If there is one Omciron case on the flight, there are chances of spreading to other passengers. We are reviewing the situation. We have to check what the civil aviation ministry is doing. The Centre should take a decision,” chief minister Mamata Banerjee told reporters earlier in the day.The Mamata Banerjee government has already ordered officials to follow up on international fliers landing at the NSCBI airport in Kolkata. “While passengers need to undergo RT-PCR tests after landing at the Kolkata airport, the contact tracing cell of each district and the civic body in Kolkata will contact and remind each passenger for a re-test on 8th day. There would be follow-ups. If the passenger is found to be positive, the samples would be sent for genome sequencing. Home isolation of 14 days would be advised if found to be negative,” said a senior official of the health department.
30-12-2021||Patna||Civil services aspirant fights back after robbers target Bihar train, gets shot||PATNA: A 27-year-old man was shot at by robbers on the Bhagalpur-Danapur Intercity Express after he put up a fight to stop them on Thursday morning. The robbers pulled the chain and fled after the shooting with valuables worth ₹1 lakh that they had collected till then, police said.Ritik Kumar Verma was rushed to the hospital. Doctors told the police he has a gunshot wound in the stomach but is out of danger. Police said Verma has been studying to clear the examination conducted by the Bihar Public Service Commission to get into the state civil services.Verma told the police that he and his brother boarded Bhagalpur-Danapur Intercity Express to reach Jasidih (Jharkhand) via Kiul junction. As soon as train left from Bhagalpur, a gang of about 12 robbers who boarded the train at the station, got into action. It was around 5.45am.The train was passing through Tatarpur, about 3km from Bhagalpur, when they came to him. One of them snatched his mobile phone and other valuables.Verma caught one of them. But he had to let go when another robber shot at him.Other passengers told the police that over a dozen armed men, mostly youths, entered the train at Bhagalpur junction.“It happened within a few minutes. We couldn’t do anything because the miscreants were armed with sharp weapons,” said Mukesh Kumar, a passenger.Police said they had looted about 12 passengers before Ritik Kumar Verma fought back.Government railway police (GRP) officials said a case has been registered. and investigations are on.Jamalpur Rail superintendent of police Amir Javed told HT that the miscreants have been identified and raids are being conducted for arrest.Train robberies in Bihar are not uncommon. On December 6, three passengers including two women were injured when a group of unidentified gunmen fired at them when they were travelling in Patna-Jhajha MEMU train near Khusrupur Railway Station falling under Danapur division of East Central Railway. On February 26, 2021, a home guard jawan, Bhuneshwar Kumar, was injured when some miscreants opened fire on a moving Dehradun-Howrah Upasana Express train near Kiul station.
30-12-2021||Kolkata||West Bengal suspends UK flights to Kolkata from January 3 amid Covid spike||The West Bengal government on Thursday announced a ban on all international flights coming from the United Kingdom to Kolkata, starting from January 3, following a sudden rise in the number of Covid cases in the state. The suspension order will remain in effect until further orders, the government said. Passengers coming from other non-at-risk countries by international flights to West Bengal will have to mandatorily undergo a test on arrival at their cost. "The airlines will randomly select 10% of the passengers for RT-PCR test and the balance 90% shall undergo Rapid Antigen Test at the arrival airport," the government's new directive for international passengers said.The Covid-19 situation in West Bengal worsened suddenly with Kolkata emerging as one of the districts of concern. Kolkata on Wednesday reported 540 new cases while the state reported 1,089 cases in total."Most omicron cases are being detected among people coming on flights from the UK. It's a fact that the omicron carriers are coming via international flights. The Centre must decide on imposing restrictions on flights from countries where omicron cases are high," Mamata Banerjee said as she visited the Sagar Island in South 24 Parganas."The Centre is only worried about Ganga Sagar. They should think of Kumbh Mela. We can't stop people coming to Ganga Sagar Mela from UP, Bihar and other parts of the country. Those who come here will follow Covid-19 protocols," Mamata said.On Wednesday, Mamata held a review meeting and asked the officials to assess the Covid situation of the state. Banerjee said schools and colleges could be closed in case the surge continues. Containment zones will again be marked in Kolkata, the CM said. A decision of local trains is also in the offing.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/west-bengal-suspends-all-flights-coming-from-uk-to-kolkata-airport-from-january-3-amid-rise-in-covid-cases-101640866405813.html
30-12-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab elections: SAD expels ex-CPS Mohinder Kaur Josh||The Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) on Thursday expelled former MLA from Sham Churasi, Mohinder Kaur Josh, from the party for anti-party activities. Also read: Another jolt for Punjab Congress, Lalli Majithia quits as Pungrain chiefSAD president Sukhbir Singh Badal announced the party’s decision at a rally in Sham Churasi. He said the former chief parliamentary secretary had breached discipline earlier and was given a chance to return but this would not happen again. “She is expelled from party’s membership for life,” he declared. A three-time MLA from Sham Churasi who came to the political centre stage after she was picked by the SAD to contest the byelections in 1998 following the death of her father and sitting MLA Arjan Singh Josh, Mohinder Kaur had contested as an Independent when she was denied the ticket in 2002. She lost to the Congress nominee. She, however, won the subsequent election on the SAD symbol in 2007 and again in 2012. In 2017, she secured the third position. Josh started showing signs of revolt soon after the seat was allotted to the Bahujan Samaj Party but on Thursday, she threw an open challenge to the party president by holding a parallel rally at a venue just metres away from where Sukhbir Singh Badal was addressing a gathering. Responding to her expulsion, Josh said Sukhbir Badal might have expelled her but her constituents had not. “I am determined to contest the elections as an Independent,” she said, adding that she had deliberately organised a show of strength on the day of Sukhbir’s visit and it was as per the wishes of her supporters. Later talking to the mediapersons at the residence of former Rajya Sabha member Varinder Singh Bajwa, who himself had returned to the party fold only recently, Sukhbir said that his party would not take back leaders who stabbed it in the back. He said only those persons were leaving the party who had been denied tickets. “Those who are joining the BJP are disregarding the sacrifices made by farmers to get the farms laws repealed,” he said, adding that the SAD had parted ways with the BJP on the sole issue of the controversial farm laws. He alleged that national parties were trying to establish their rule by using money and power but the people of Punjab would stand by the SAD, a local party that has and will stand by them. “The national parties have never done any good to Punjab. Their sole motive is to gain power, Punjab’s interests are secondary. The SAD has always fought for the state’s rights and will continue to stand by its people. Assi jeena marna ikathe (We will live and die together)”, he claimed. He said that the PGI satellite centre of which Prime Minister Narendra Modi was to lay the foundation stone on January 5 was, in fact, got sanctioned by him. Ruling out any alliance with the BJP, post-elections, he said that the SAD would win at least 85 seats. Sukhbir held a roadshow in Hoshiarpur town in favour of BSP candidate Varinder Parihar and paid obeisance at several places of Sikh and Hindu faith.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-elections-sad-expels-ex-cps-mohinder-kaur-josh-101640865278244.html
30-12-2021||Chandigarh||With no Covid curbs, tourists flock to Himachal for New Year festivities||With no Covid-19 curbs, Himachal Pradesh is seeing a rush of tourists for New Year festivities. With the meteorological department forecasting rain and snow at isolated places of the state over the next three days, hotels in Shimla are packed to capacity. Also read: Sharp increase in Covid cases in 3-4 days, situation concerning in 22 districtsState health minister Rajiv Sezal said the government does not want to impose any restrictions on the tourism business as it is a source of income for hundreds of people in the state. Other tourist towns of Dalhousie, Kasauli, Chail, Dharamshala, Kullu and Manali too are seeing heavy tourist inflow. “Hotel occupancy has risen to 90% and we have advance bookings till January 10. The tourism industry has borne the brunt of the Covid pandemic for two years so those associated with the hospitality sector are happy now that they will be able to recover some of their losses,” said MK Seth, the president of the Himachal Pradesh Tourism Stake Holders Association. “We are requesting tourists to adhere to Covid-19 appropriate behaviour,” he added. Hotels in Shimla have made special arrangements to attract tourists. “There is live orchestra for guests and besides the routine food on the menu, we are offering Kashmiri cuisine,” said Nand Lal, the assistant general manager of the government-run Hotel Holiday Home. Parking spaces increased, security stepped up The health minister said that chief minister Jai Ram Thakur has conducted a meeting with all deputy commissioners and asked them to ensure the implementation of Covid-appropriate behaviour. “So far, there is only one Omicron case in the state which is now reported to be negative,” he said. The Shimla district administration is geared up to tackle the year-end rush of tourists. Since there are limited parking spaces in town, the government has opened up sealed roads for parking for tourist vehicles. “In order to maintain law and order, the town has been divided into seven sectors and the officers of the civil administration have been assigned responsibility of each sector,” Shimla deputy commissioner Aditya Negi said. The police have deployed extra forces in town. Kalka-Shimla trains running to capacity Trains on the Kalka-Shimla heritage track are also running full to capacity. Shimla station superintendent Joginder Singh said that the authorities are ensuring that the Covid-19 protocol is followed. “I’m here to ring in the New Year and am enjoying the natural beauty of Shimla. There is no fear or panic about Covid among tourists as we are aware of the guidelines and have been wearing the mask. Besides, most of us are fully vaccinated,” said Sharwani, a tourist from Hyderabad. 
30-12-2021||Delhi||In a first, Delhi commuters vandalise buses at 2 spots over Covid curbs||NEW DELHI: Commuters waiting for buses to get to work on Thursday morning vandalised buses at two locations to protest the shortage of buses after the government decided to cap the number of passengers in buses and metros at 50% of its seating capacity.Additional deputy commissioner of police, south district, Mandava Harsha Vardhan said window panes of six buses were damaged by the public in two incidents. Legal action is being taken in these cases.The first incident was reported at about 8.15am when the police received multiple phone calls about a traffic jam near Jamia Hamdard on south Delhi’s Mehrauli Badarpur Road. When the police reached the spot, they found that some bus commuters instigating others as well to sit on the road as bus drivers and marshalls were not allowing more than 17 passengers in each bus in line with the Covid-related curbs ordered by the government, the police officer said.The restrictions came into force from Wednesday as authorities sounded a yellow alert to contain the spread of Omicron variant of the coronavirus disease. As part of the curbs put in place as part of the first phase of the graded response action plan to stop the spread of the infection, Delhi Metro and buses operate at 50% seating capacity with no standing passengers.“The police tried to convince the agitated public to allow the traffic to pass by but in vain. After some time, the public started causing damage to the buses and broke window panes of five buses. To defuse the situation, the protesting public were removed with help of women police staff (since some of the protesters were women),” Mandava Harsha Vardhan said, insisting that the police did not use force to disperse the crowd as alleged by some people.“In the process one police person also sustained injury,” the officer said.The district police received a second report of passengers creating ruckus at 10,30am, in Sangam Vihar, about 3km from the spot where the first incident was reported. They were also angry about not being allowed to travel into the buses due to the cap on seating capacity.Mandava Harsha Vardhan said a group of men blocked the road and broke the window panes of a DTC bus around 10.30 am. “Police dispersed the crowd and a case is being registered at Sangam Vihar police station. Five persons have been detained,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/in-a-first-delhi-commuters-vandalise-buses-at-2-spots-over-covid-curbs-101640863297969.html
30-12-2021||Chandigarh||Hope to be back for Punjab oath-taking: AAP’s Kejriwal||Aam Aadmi Party national convener and Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Thursday said that the Chandigarh Municipal Corporation election results have triggered a wave for change in poll-bound Punjab and he hoped to be back for the state government’s installation ceremony early next year. Also read: Drugs case: HC defers hearing on Majithia’s anticipatory bail plea till January 5Addressing AAP workers at the Vijay Yatra (victory procession) after his party won 14 of the 35 seats in its debut Chandigarh MC election, he said: “Our workers have to work so hard that people vote for the AAP across the country.” This was the first municipal corporation outside Delhi that the party has won. The incumbent Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) won 12 seats, while the Congress won eight and the Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) managed to win one ward. “From the Chandigarh results… a wave has started in Punjab. I hope to be back to attend the oath-taking ceremony (of the Punjab government),” he said addressing a large gathering after the roadshow. Kejriwal was accompanied by Punjab AAP chief and Sangrur MP Bhagwant Mann, Chandigarh unit leaders Chander Mukhi Sharma and Pardeep Chhabra besides the 14 councillors on the truck from Sector 22, one of the oldest sectors in the heart of Chandigarh. Makes newly elected councillors pledge loyalty Kejriwal said that it was not easy for the AAP to defeat the Congress and the BJP, both established parties. “If they voted them out and brought you in, work day and night to serve the people of Chandigarh,” Kejriwal said, adding “the trust shown by people should not be broken”. He made newly elected councillors take an oath that they would not leave the AAP. “All workers and councillors should ensure that from whichever party people come to you, there should be no discrimination. Don’t discriminate against those from the BJP, SAD or the Congress. All of them are our own people. Work more for people from other parties so that they vote for us next time,” he said, urging them to work towards restoring Chandigarh’s “glory as City Beautiful”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/hope-to-be-back-for-punjab-oath-taking-aap-s-kejriwal-101640861019471.html
30-12-2021||Pune||Taste of Life: Foods, traditions are vital ties that unite people||Twenty-five years ago, on a muggy Saturday evening in Tardeo, Mumbai, I was browsing through a cupboard full of books to choose a few to carry back to my hostel. The books belonged to Durgabai Bhagwat - scholar, writer, and champion of free speech. She had been kind enough to lend me a few every week to read. That evening, I laid my hands on a stack of some very old books. Some of them were in Hebrew, others in Marathi and English. They were classic Hebrew texts, Jewish prayer books, rabbinical commentaries, and sermons. There was also a Hebrew-Marathi Haggadah. All of them were printed in Poona in the late nineteenth century. The books were gifted to Durgabai by Rebecca Reuben, the great Jewish-Indian writer, and educator. Reuben was the first woman to secure first rank in the matriculation examination for the University of Bombay. She went on to study at the University of London and upon returning to India taught at the Deccan College, and at Huzoor Paga Girls High School. In 1922, Reuben became the principal of the Israelite School in Bombay. Durgabai quit college in 1930 to join Gandhiji’s Civil Disobedience Movement. The next year she spent a few months in Poona. That’s when Reuben wrote to her that she was visiting the city and would like to spend a couple of days with her. Reuben was a friend of Sitabai Bhagwat, Durgabai’s paternal aunt. “I was living with one of my aunts in a small room in a chawl in Narayan Peth then. We had carried a stove and only a few utensils from Mumbai with us. My aunt was an excellent cook and I was still learning from her. We knew Reuben would not complain, nobody complained in those days anyway. But we were a little worried because she was visiting us on Rosh Hashanah. It was a special day for her”, Durgabai told me. Rosh Hashanah is the Jewish New Year. It is an auspicious time, meant for new beginnings and good luck. Durgabai and her aunt cooked rice pudding, “saat padar puri”, fried okra, and bottle-gourd curry. There were pomegranates, dates, and slices of quince dipped in honey. The star of the feast was the black-eyed peas curry with tomatoes. Reuben was overwhelmed at the gesture. She gifted some books belonging to her father to Durgabai. Jewish families eat black-eyed peas on Rosh Hashanah. Also known as cowpeas, they are not peas, but rather a relative of mung beans. The Talmud states, “Since symbols are meaningful, everyone should eat the following on Rosh Hashanah: “kara” (a type of gourd), “robiya” (black-eyed peas, or fenugreek, depending on how one translates), “kareti” (a leek), “silka” (a beet), and “tamrei” (dates). The tradition might have arisen in the Middle Ages, out of mistaken identity: the word for black-eyed pea in Arabic, “lubiya”, was confused with the Talmudic “rubiya” (which is actually fenugreek in Aramaic). “Rubiya” was included in the Talmud as one of the simanim (food for good omen) on account of its similarity to “yirbu”, the Hebrew word for “multiply” or “increase”, making the food bearing this name a fitting symbol for fertility and prosperity in the coming year. Families from Egypt, Syria, and other Sephardic traditions often serve black-eyed peas as part of a “Rosh Hashanah seder” consisting of seven symbolic foods, or “simanin”, each of which receives one of a series of blessings. Bene Israel Jews in India borrowed some traditions from the Sephardic Jews that had settled in the coastal region in the 16th century. One of them was eating black-eyed peas on Rosh Hashanah. Black-eyed peas are associated with a mystical power to bring good luck. There are plenty of ways in which black-eyed peas can be seen as symbolising abundance: for one, they expand when cooked in water; for another, a dish of black-eyed peas consists of many individual legumes. Black-eyed peas with cornbread represent gold. Stew your black-eyed peas with tomatoes and they become a symbol of health and wealth. Eating them along with collards, with their green colour, represent a financially prosperous new year. Celebrating the first day of the solar year is more of a global, secular tradition. People the world over have fully embraced the idea that doing something, or having something happen, on the first day of the year would have year-long consequences. If you are eating good food going into the New Year, then you would be good and healthy all through the year. While collards were served in the Anglo-Indian households in Poona on the New Year Eve, many educated and “Germany-returned” Chitpavan Brahmins in Pune, who were strongly influenced by the Germans, and Hitler in particular, in the last century, often enjoyed cabbage on the first day of the tropical New Year. Black-eyed peas are a longtime staple, having been cultivated for more than two millennia in Africa, India, and China. Before European contact, West Africans did not have an analogous New Year’s Day food tradition, but as with many cultures around the world, they celebrated auspicious days with symbolic food. Black-eyed peas were frequently on the shortlist for special occasions. Enslaved West Africans brought their food traditions and beliefs to the American South. Slave ships departing West Africa were provisioned with black-eyed peas to sustain the captives during the Middle Passage across the Atlantic Ocean to the Americas. The enslaved grew black-eyed peas in their plantation gardens. A few decades later, both the enslaved and slaveholders were eating black-eyed peas on a regular basis. No one knows for sure exactly when and how this happened, but the various ingredients blended to create a new New Year’s Day tradition in Southern kitchens. While Sephardic Jews kept eating their traditional black-eyed pea dishes, African – Americans in the South began eating the beans on January 1, most commonly in the form of “Hoppin’ John”, as a symbol of their hope for a prosperous new year. Dr Gangutai Bhide came to know of these traditions while studying for the FRCS degree in Dublin in the late 1930s. When the persecution of Jews began in Germany and elsewhere in the 1930s, many Jews sought refuge in Britain and in the US. They brought with them what they could of home – language, cuisine, culture. Bhide befriended many Jew students and professors in Britain and from the US. She learned about their customs and traditions and brought some of those to Pune with her. So, in 1958, when she invited Durgabai and her sister Dr Kamal Sohonie, the first Indian woman to receive a PhD. in a scientific discipline, for lunch on the New Year’s Day, on the table were fritters, soup, and curry made of black-eyed peas, along with okra, cabbage, and wheat flatbread. Durgabai had requested Bhide to give her the recipes for the soup and the fritters. She had cooked black-eyed peas curry for many years on Rosh Hashanah after the day Reuben had visited her. I assume Bhide never stopped cooking fritters on New Year Day either. The process of cultural diffusion, borrowing, appropriation, although often messy, coalesces into the tradition we have now. “I am not superstitious. I know certain dishes are not going to bring me any luck. Don’t you think it is important to carry on certain traditions, especially those involving food, of those who have come before us? These rituals bind us to the people we love”, Durgabai said and asked me to help her look for the recipes Bhide had given her decades ago. Chinmay Damle is a research scientist and food enthusiast. He writes here on Pune’s food culture. He can be contacted at chinmay.damle@gmail.com||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/taste-of-life-foods-traditions-are-vital-ties-that-unite-people-101640860537998.html
30-12-2021||Delhi||Not allowed to board due to Covid curbs, people damage DTC buses, block MB Road||A group of people blocked the MB Road and damaged DTC buses on Thursday morning after not being allowed to board a vehicle that had exceeded the permissible passenger-carrying capacity set when Delhi is in 'yellow' alert due to rising Covid cases.Police used mild force to disperse the crowd and five people have been detained, officials said.Additional Deputy Commissioner of Police (south) M Harsha Vardhan said some people blocked the MB Road and broke the glass of a DTC bus on Thursday around 10:30 am."Police dispersed the crowd. A case under relevant sections is being registered at Sangam Vihar police station and five people have been detained. It was due to non-availability of seats in the buses due to Covid-related restrictions,” he said.In videos of the incident that have emerged on social media, it was seen that green and red air-conditioned buses have been damaged. Windshields and side mirrors were broken.The conductor of a bus, in a video, said, "We have instructions to allow only 17 commuters at a time. When there are 20 people, including the driver, conductor and marshal, on the bus, we do not stop it. If we stop and more people enter the bus, we will be fined ₹2,000.""When we did not stop the bus today, people got agitated and started pelting stones. However, nobody inside the bus was injured," he said.Amid a spike in COVID-19 cases following the emergence of the Omicron variant, Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Tuesday declared a 'yellow alert' closing schools, colleges, cinemas and gyms.Shops dealing in non-essential items will open on an odd-even basis, and metro trains and buses will run with 50 per cent of seating capacity in the city.Under the four-stage Graded response Action Plan (GRAP), the 'yellow' alert will kick in if the positivity rate settles at 0.5 per cent for two consecutive days, leading to a host of restrictions.GRAP was approved by the Delhi Disaster Management Authority in July in anticipation of the third wave of Covid. It aims to bring in a clearer picture of imposition and lifting of restrictions depending on the Covid situation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/not-allowed-to-board-due-to-covid-curbs-people-damage-dtc-buses-block-mb-road-101640855147590.html
30-12-2021||Delhi||Caught on video: 24-yr-old beaten, stabbed to death near Delhi house by 3 men||NEW DELHI: A 24-year-old man was stabbed and beaten to death by three men in a lane near his house in east Delhi’s Shahdara district on Wednesday evening, police said. Two of the three men, who were allegedly seen on a video footage thrashing the man, have been arrested.Video footage of the incident shows the men smashing a chair on the victim’s head while another person, armed with a knife stabbed him twice.Police said the dead man, Shahrukh, had an affair with one of the accused’s sister, a married woman.The accused warned his sister and Shahrukh to end their relationship but the two didn’t back down. On Wednesday evening, he came with two of his friends and allegedly killed Shahrukh in the street.#HateCrime : Chilling video shows three men stab and thrash a man to death in Seemapuri area of #Delhi . He allegedly had an affair with the accused's married sister, which he refused to put an end to. pic.twitter.com/saK14g0juHDeputy commissioner of Police (DCP), Shahdara, R Sathiyasundaram said they got a PCR call around 5 pm from Ration Wali Gali in Old Seemapuri area. The caller said a man had been stabbed.By the time the first police team responded to the call, Shahrukh had already been shifted to GTB Hospital. He later died of his injuries.During investigation, and on analysis of CCTV footage in the area, police identified the accused as Zuber, Zafar and Aditya, residents of Seemapuri.“Teams were formed, multiple raids were conducted and two of the accused persons, Aditya and Zuber were arrested. The third accused is absconding and we are making efforts to trace him as well,” said the DCP.Police said Shahrukh was listed as a ‘Bad Character’ of Seemapuri police station, a term used by the police to denote that an individual has been accused of multiple crimes and needs to be kept under surveillance.A case under sections 302 (punishment for murder) and 34 (Acts done by several persons in furtherance of common intention) of the IPC & sections of the Arms Act was registered at the Seemapuri police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/caught-on-video-24-yr-old-beaten-stabbed-to-death-near-delhi-house-by-3-men-101640858017326.html
30-12-2021||Chandigarh||Another jolt for Punjab Congress, Lalli Majithia quits as Pungrain chief||In another jolt to the Congress in the Majha belt of Punjab, senior party leader Sukhjinder Raj Singh, alias Lalli Majithia, who fought three assembly elections against Shiromani Akali Dal’s Bikram Singh Majithia, on Thursday resigned from the post of the chairman-cum-director, Punjab State Grains Procurement Corporation Limited (Pungrain). Also read: Drugs case: HC defers hearing on Majithia’s anticipatory bail plea till January 5He sent his resignation letter to chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi and later said that he has been upset over the Punjab government’s working on two major issues — sacrilege and drugs. He said the registration of a first information report (FIR) against Bikram Singh Majithia was merely an eyewash. “Has he gone underground? The government is deliberately not arresting him,” Lalli Majithia alleged. In the runup to the Punjab assembly elections, he said he would consider resigning from the Congress at an “appropriate time” and joining another party in the coming days. It is learnt that he is likely to join the BJP. His resignation comes just two days after Congress sitting MLAs Fateh Jung Bajwa from Qadian and Balwinder Singh Laddi from Shri Hargobindpur (reserved) joined the BJP in Delhi. Fateh Jung is the younger brother of former Punjab Congress chief and Rajya Sabha MP Partap Singh Bajwa. Laddi also belongs to the Bajwa camp. Last week, former minister and four-time Guru Har Sahai MLA Rana Gurmeet Sodhi joined the BJP.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/another-jolt-for-punjab-congress-lalli-majithia-quits-as-pungrain-chief-101640854776819.html
30-12-2021||Mumbai||New Year gatherings banned in open, closed spaces in Mumbai from today till Jan 7||Authorities in Mumbai imposed prohibitory orders under Section 144 across the city from Thursday till January 7 because of the rising cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) fuelled by the Omicron variant.According to an order issued by the Mumbai Police on Thursday, New Year celebrations and gatherings are banned in any open or closed spaces.All New Year celebrations, programmes, functions and gatherings in any closed or open space, including hotels, restaurants, banquet halls, bars, pubs, orchestras, resorts, clubs and rooftops, the order said.Trains, buses and private cars may ply as per the current guidelines and norms in Mumbai.These restrictions have been imposed to prevent danger to human life, for the health and safety of people and to curtail transmission of Covid-19, the order added.People found violating the police order, shall be punishable under section 188 of Indian Penal Code 1860, in addition to the penal provision under the Epidemic Diseases Act 1897 and National Disaster Management Act 2005 and other legal provisions as applicable, according to deputy commissioner of police (operations) S Chaitanya.Previously, Section 144 of the Code of Criminal Procedure (CrPC) was imposed in the city from December 16 till December 31.Mumbai, just like the whole of Maharashtra is under a night curfew from 9pm till 6am along with restrictions on public functions. Hotels, spas and theatres can continue to remain open with 50% of their capacity.On Wednesday, Mumbai saw another spike in its daily Covid-19 tally after 2,445 cases pushed the cumulative count to 775,476. One patient succumbed to the virus on Wednesday and now the death toll of the city is at 16,375.The city also reported 53 cases of Omicron on Wednesday, which pushed the total cases of the new variant to 137.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/ny-gatherings-banned-in-open-closed-spaces-in-mumbai-from-today-till-jan-7-101640849498806.html
30-12-2021||Delhi||No Omicron patient has required oxygen in Delhi: Health minister||Alok K N Mishra Delhi health minister Satyendar Jain on Thursday said not a single Omicron patient in the city has required oxygen support as all of them are asymptomatic. He cited the latest genome sequencing reports and added 46% of Covid-19 patients in the Capital suffer from the Omicron variant of the disease. Jain added Omicron patients also include people with no travel history and that the current spread of the infection suggests that it is spreading in the community too. “Around 200 patients are in the hospital out of which 115 have come directly from the airport and are asymptomatic. Out of the 200 patients, 102 are from Delhi and 98 are from outside. None of those admitted have any symptoms and have been admitted as a precautionary measure,” Jain said. Delhi on Wednesday reported 923 Covid-19 cases with a 1.29% positivity rate. The number of Omicron cases is increasing worldwide but the infection has low severity. Also Read | Delhi’s Covid spike not due to festivals, but Omicron; peak likely by mid-February: ExpertJain, who underlined there was no need to panic, said since caseload and hospital occupancy are low and that is why level one (Yellow Alert) of the Graded Response Action Plan has been activated and multiple restrictions have been imposed. “Decision on imposing more curbs will be taken in DDMA (Department Of Delhi Disaster Management Authority) meeting after monitoring the emerging Covid situation,” said Jain. The yellow alert, which is sounded when the positivity rate stays above 0.5%, led to a night curfew, closure of schools, colleges, movie theatres, and gyms.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/no-omicron-patient-has-required-oxygen-in-delhi-health-minister-101640852436765.html
30-12-2021||Chandigarh||Drugs case: HC defers hearing on Majithia’s anticipatory bail plea till January 5||The Punjab and Haryana high court on Thursday deferred the hearing on the anticipatory bail plea of Shiromani Akali Dal leader and former state minister Bikram Singh Majithia in a drugs case till January 5. The matter was listed for physical hearing before the bench of justice Lisa Gill. However, as senior advocate RS Cheema, who appeared for Majithia, sought a virtual hearing and the court did not agree for the same during its vacation, the matter was deferred for January 5. The virtual hearing was being sought in view of Supreme Court advocate Mukul Rohatgi to appear for Majithia, said lawyers. The Punjab government has roped in Supreme Court lawyer and former Union minister P Chidambaram to argue its case. Mohali court had dismissed Majithia’s bail plea On December 24, a Mohali court had dismissed Majithia’s plea, observing that though his claims are of political vendetta but he himself was a powerful person in state politics till 2017 during the Shiromani Akali Dal’s rule. Majithia was booked by Punjab Police on December 20 under cognizable sections of the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act, including Sections 25 (punishment for allowing premises), 27 (A) (whoever is financing any activities pertaining to narcotic drugs) and 29 (party to a criminal conspiracy to commit an offence). Majithia’s whereabouts are not known. The plea says the FIR is an “election stunt” and for the purpose, the government has changed three Punjab Police chiefs in three months The Bureau of Investigation has also seen three departmental heads change. It also accuses Punjab Congress chief Navjot Singh Sidhu of indulging in “unwarranted propaganda” and deputy chief minister Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa of demonstrating “intense hatred” towards Majithia. While rejecting his plea, the Mohali court had observed that the delay in lodging the criminal case against Majithia cannot be a ground to presume that the whole case is false. His name cropped up in 2014 and the SAD was in power till February 2017. Special judge Sandeep Kumar Singla also said that the FIR has been registered on the basis of a report that prima facie shows the “involvement” of the applicant in the drug trade and harbouring of accused involved in the drug mafia. The question on legality of the criminal case, whether it is borne out of political vendetta or not, cannot be a ground for granting anticipatory bail, Singla had held. Plea cites ‘political interests’ of rivals The plea claims Siddharth Chattopadhyaya was given the additional charge of DGP only to act as a “tool to advance the political interests” of the present government. The plea also referred to the controversy involving ADGP SK Asthana, claiming that he refused to investigate the matter and raised questions whether the matter can be investigated, it being sealed before the court; superseded by other reports and whether investigation can be initiated without the permission of the court. The plea says the report of the special task force (STF), which is the basis of the FIR, was either superseded or merged with the subsequent report of a state government committee. But this fact was ignored and the FIR was registered. Moreover, in the entire lengthy FIR no fresh evidence has been collected or statement recorded, it says, adding that in all drug cases registered, trials have been concluded with the acquittal of some accused and the conviction of others. None of the accused made any reference of the petitioner, it says. 
30-12-2021||Delhi||On New Year's Eve, no exit from Rajiv Chowk Metro station after 9pm, says DMRC||The Delhi Metro Rail Corporation (DMRC) announced on Thursday that to ease overcrowding on December 31, exit from Rajiv Chowk Metro station will not be allowed after 9pm. This comes days after the Delhi government implemented strict curbs in the national capital in the wake of the Omicron variant of coronavirus.“To ease overcrowding on New Year's Eve (31st December 2021), exit from Rajiv Chowk metro station will not be allowed from 9 PM onwards. However, entry of passengers will be allowed till the departure of the last train,” the DMRC announced on Twitter.NEW YEAR EVE UPDATETo ease overcrowding on New Year's Eve (31st December 2021), exit from Rajiv Chowk metro station will not be allowed from 9 PM onwards. However, entry of passengers will be allowed till the departure of the last train.Kindly plan your journey accordingly. pic.twitter.com/hEVfHWSS1TEvery year, revellers gather at Connaught Place, the heart of New Delhi, adjacent to the metro station, to ring in the New Year. But this year, the Delhi government has put in place a night curfew, which starts at 10pm, to curb such gatherings.Meanwhile, long queues of commuters were seen outside many stations of Delhi Metro for the second consecutive day on Thursday after imposition of fresh curbs by authorities to check the spread of Covid-19 in the city.On Wednesday, serpentine queues of commuters were seen outside stations at Laxmi Nagar, Akshardham, among others. Many also had taken to Facebook and Twitter to share pictures of such queues outside stations.The curbs have been clamped as part of the graded response action plan (GRAP), due to which Delhi has been put under 'Yellow alert', which also entails running of metro trains with only 50 per cent seating capacity and no provision for standing for commuters.The DMRC said in a statement on Wednesday that as part of the intensified measures for containing Covid-19 spread, "15 flying squads were deployed across the Delhi Metro network" to ensure that the Covid safety protocols are strictly adhered to by the passengers inside trains as well as station premises.The frequency of checking drives is also being increased to ensure strict adherence to the guidelines, and offenders are also being penalised on the spot, the DMRC further said.The DMRC network's current span is nearly 392 km with 286 stations (including the Noida-Greater Noida Metro Corridor and Rapid Metro, Gurgaon).Delhi on Wednesday recorded 923 fresh Covid cases, the highest daily rise since May 30, as the positivity rate again breached the 1 per cent-mark (1.29 per cent).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/on-new-year-s-eve-no-exit-from-rajiv-chowk-metro-station-after-9pm-says-dmrc-101640850140122.html
30-12-2021||Delhi||People with no travel history found infected with Omicron: Delhi health minister||Forty-six per cent of the total cases of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) reported in Delhi are of the Omicron variant, health minister Satyendar Jain said on Thursday.The Delhi health minister also pointed out people with no travel history were also found infected with Omicron, adding it is gradually spreading in the community.“Omicron variant found in 46 per cent of 115 samples sequenced so far in Delhi,” Jain said while speaking to reporters.Also Read| India’s Omicron cases spike to 961, daily Covid-19 infections rise by 13,154Jain added that of the 200 Omicron patients in Delhi hospitals, 102 belong to the Capital while 98 are from outside.“Of the 200 admitted patients in Delhi, 115 patients including international travellers, do not have any symptoms and have been kept in hospitals as a precautionary measure,” Jain said.Satyendar Jain also said no patient of Omicron has been placed on oxygen support till now.Delhi is currently the worst hit-state from the new variant across India with 263 cases of the Omicron, according to the Union ministry of health and family welfare. As many as 57 patients have recovered from till now.Also Read| Omicron probably behind case spike in Delhi, shows analysisA genome analysis done by one of the main hospitals in Delhi in the last seven days showed that the spike in infections is because of fast-spreading Omicron.The Delhi government has already implemented a yellow alert amid the recent spike in daily infections. The yellow alert, which is the lowest level of the government's Graded Response Action Plan, allows restaurants and bars to remain open with 50% capacity till 10pm.All schools, colleges, educational institutions, cinemas and gymnasiums will be closed. Online food delivery services are allowed to continue. The Delhi government has also imposed a night curfew from 10pm till 5am.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/people-with-no-travel-history-found-infected-with-omicron-delhi-health-minister-101640843570129.html
30-12-2021||Indore||Woman vaccinated 4 times tests positive for Covid-19, stopped from boarding Dubai-bound flight from Indore||A woman, who been already taken four doses of two different vaccines against, tested positive for coronavirus disease (Covid-19) at the Indore airport following which she was prevented from boarding a Dubai-bound flight, reports have said.Reports said the woman tested positive for Covid-19 at the airport and was admitted to a hospital."As per the standard practice, rapid RT-PCR tests are conducted during the weekly Indore-Dubai flight and as part of it, 89 passengers were tested today. A woman among them was found infected with the coronavirus,” Indore health department's medical officer Dr Priyanka Kourav told PTI on Wednesday.Also read | Doctor identifies 2 new Omicron symptoms, says even vaccinated have someKourav said the woman arrived in Mhow town in Madhya Pradesh 12 days ago to attend the wedding of a close relative. She has taken two doses each of Sinopharm and Pfizer's anti-Covid-19 vaccines between January and August, the official said.The woman is asymptomatic as of now, the official also told PTI. However, she told the airport's health staff she had a cold and cough four days ago, Kourav said.Also read | India’s Omicron cases spike to 961, daily Covid-19 infections rise by 13,154In the last few months, two women and a man were stopped from boarding the Indore-Dubai flight, being run every Wednesday, after they tested positive for the viral infection at the airport.The state’s health department data shows Madhya Pradesh’s Covid-19 tally rose to 793,816 on Wednesday with the detection of 48 cases and its death toll remained unchanged at 10,533.Also read | As Omicron spreads, WHO chief scientist’s take on Covid-19 vaccinesAccording to the Union ministry of health and family welfare on Thursday morning, Madhya Pradesh has reported 9 cases of the Omicron variant of the coronavirus.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/indore-news/woman-vaccinated-4-times-tests-positive-for-covid-19-at-indore-airport-101640841582138.html
30-12-2021||Bangalore||Karnataka to review night curfew? CM Basavaraj Bommai to take decision today||Karnataka chief minister Basavaraj Bommai has said he will review the Covid-19 containment measures announced by his government, including the night curfew, after business establishments in the state complained against the restriction.The Federation of Karnataka Chambers of Commerce and Industry, hotel and pub owners, auto-rickshaw and taxi owners have requested the Karnataka government to reconsider its decision regarding night curfew and New Year curbs, saying this is the major business season for them.Karnataka chief minister Basavaraj Bommai has said he will review the Covid-19 containment measures announced by his government, including the night curfew, after business establishments in the state complained against the restriction.The Federation of Karnataka Chambers of Commerce and Industry, hotel and pub owners, auto-rickshaw and taxi owners have requested the Karnataka government to reconsider its decision regarding night curfew and New Year curbs, saying this is the major business season for them.|#+|The Bommai government announced the night curfew for 10 days as part of its containment measures to control the further spread and it has been in effect across the state from Tuesday night. It will be effective from 10pm to 5am every day till January 7 morning, during which no activities will be allowed."I'm observing all of them. Let’s see, after I go to Bengaluru tomorrow, I will take a decision in this connection," Bommai said on Wednesday in response to a question regarding opposition to the night curfew.Also read | Karnataka reports five more cases of Omicron variant, tally rises to 48The government has also banned all New Year parties and gatherings in public places, and eateries, hotels, pubs, clubs and restaurants have been asked to operate with 50 per cent of their seating capacity from December 30 to January 2.Meanwhile, Karnataka’s tally of the Omicron variant of the coronavirus has risen to 48 after five new infections were reported on Wednesday.Also read | Bengaluru imposes curbs on New Year's Eve celebrations in view of OmicronKarnataka health minister Dr K Sudhakar said on Wednesday, of these five new Omicron cases, one travelled from the United States, another from the US via Qatar, one returned from Dubai, one arrived from Ghana via Doha and one came from Mumbai."All positive persons have been isolated and primary and secondary contacts have been identified and tested," Dr K Sudhakar said in a tweet.Karnataka on Wednesday reported 566 fresh Covid-19 cases, 245 recoveries, and six deaths. With the addition of new cases and fatalities, the cumulative case tally in the state mounted to 30,05,798, of which 7,771 are active cases, and the death toll rose to 38,324.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/karnataka-to-review-night-curfew-cm-basavaraj-bommai-to-take-decision-today-101640830933770.html
30-12-2021||Chandigarh||3 militants killed in Kulgam encounter; cop injured in Jammu and Kashmir’s Anantnag||Three unidentified militants were killed and a policeman was injured in two separate encounters in south Kashmir’s Anantnag and Kulgam districts.Both encounters began on Wednesday evening after the forces got a tip-off about the presence of militants in both areas.The first encounter began at Nowgam in Anantnag district when joint teams of the security forces launched an operation at Nowgam Shahabad in the evening.The police said a policeman got injured in the initial gunfight. He has been shifted to a hospital.“The operation is still in progress,” the spokesman said.In another operation, the police said three unidentified militants were killed at Mirhama in Kulgam district during an encounter. The police said the operation is still in progress and searches are underway in the area.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/3-militants-killed-in-kulgam-encounter-cop-injured-in-jammu-and-kashmir-s-anantnag-101640811513024.html
30-12-2021||Chandigarh||Sikh body demands 4 seats for the community in Jammu and Kashmir assembly||The All Parties Sikh Coordination Committee on Wednesday demanded reservation of four seats for the community in the Jammu and Kashmir assembly.“Despite our meeting with the Delimitation Commission headed by Justice (retired) Ranjana Desal, no reservation whatsoever has been earmarked for the Sikhs even though we demanded for the same in the meeting, and it was also mentioned in the memorandum submitted to the Commission,” APSCC chairman Jagmohan Singh Raina told reporters here.Raina said the “cold-shouldered attitude” of the commission means that basic rights in Jammu and Kashmir will not be extended to the Sikh minority in the forthcoming delimitation of assembly segments.“We demand reservation of four seats for Sikhs in the Jammu and Kashmir assembly,” he said.The APSCC chairman said all governments of Jammu and Kashmir in the past have “deliberately ignored” the basic issues of the community.“The issues have piled up due to non-resolution and we fail to understand the measuring rod used by the people at helm to measure or understand the problems of Sikhs of Jammu and Kashmir. We have been neglected and discriminated against all along even in the new set of Union Territory,” he said.Despite repeated promises, he said, the Sikh community is not given the status of minority in Jammu and Kashmir.Though Prime Minister Narendra Modi has been praising the historical contribution of Sikhs in the country, he never tried to understand the issues faced by the minority, the APSCC chairman alleged. Raina said Sikhs are “openly discriminated” in various government orders and packages, while other minorities are getting exclusive and secret packages of jobs for their youth.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/sikh-body-demands-4-seats-for-the-community-in-jammu-and-kashmir-assembly-101640811511738.html
30-12-2021||Chandigarh||Jammu and Kashmir Apni Party protests against Delimitation Commission draft proposal||The Jammu and Kashmir Apni Party on Wednesday held a protest against the draft proposal of the Delimitation Commission, Hyderpora killings, the opening of the land to outsiders and giving clean chit to the forces.The protest was led by Apni Party president Altaf Bukhari and other senior leaders of the party. The protestors, however, were not allowed by the police to move towards the civil secretariat.Later speaking to mediapersons, Bukhari said they were not allowed to hold a protest. “What sort of democracy is this. They claim about normalcy even a peaceful protest wasn’t allowed. We just wanted to highlight the aspirations of our people against the Delimitation Commission. The draft report is against the mandate of the commission. These people formed the commission, otherwise, it should have not happened before 2026.”Bukhari sought the intervention of the Prime Minister and the home minister. “The PM and the home minister should intervene and reconsider this draft and come up with a new draft in front of the people,” he said.The Apni party leader also raised concern over the real estate conference that was held in Jammu on Monday. “The way domicile has been omitted through the backdoor. If this is an endeavour to get land houses and flats for non-locals. This is against the mandate and the order of the Government of India,” he said.Bukhari said, “After J&K became UT, we were given two assurances -- there won’t be demographic changes and the jobs and land of J&K will remain confined to the youths and people of the UT. This protest is against that as well.”He alleged that the press wasn’t allowed to work freely which was against the essence of democracy. “This protest is also against giving clean chit to the forces while the probe is still on,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/jammu-and-kashmir-apni-party-protests-against-delimitation-commission-draft-proposal-101640811507414.html
30-12-2021||Chandigarh||Himachal govt mulls cut in minimum bus fare by ₹2 from New Year||In a bid to provide relief to the people, the Himachal Pradesh government is contemplating reducing the minimum bus fare by ₹2 from the existing ₹7 to ₹5.The bus fare may be reduced from New Year. The state government has announced a slew of reliefs to the general public as well as employees since the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) lost byelections to the three assembly constituencies and one parliamentary seat.The decision to cut the bus fare is also seen as a step to regain the favour of the public.Transport minister Bikram Singh Thakur has directed the transport department to prepare a proposal to slash the bus fare.The minister said the department was getting complaints that bus conductors sometimes charge ₹10 as minimum fair and don’t refund the remaining ₹3 citing lack of change or some other pretext.“People had even complained about this on chief minister’s helpline number 1100,” he said, adding that reducing the minimum fair was the best solution to the problem.He said a decision to cut the bus fare would be taken soon.Bus fare hiked twice in pastIt is worth mentioning that the present state government had hiked the bus fare twice in its four-year rule. The first hike was done in September 2018 when the minimum fare was increased from ₹3 to ₹6 while the fare per kilometre was increased from 20 to 25 percent. However, after protests by the people, the minimum fare was reduced to ₹5 in October 2018.The second hike was made during the Covid-19 pandemic in July 2020. Facing pressure from private transporters, the bus fare was increased by 25% per kilometre and the minimum fare was increased from ₹5 to ₹7. The government had cited the losses to the transport sector due to the pandemic while increasing the fare.Buses are the only means of transportation in rural Himachal as the state lacks air and train connectivity in these areas.The HRTC has 3,300 buses in its fleet while there are 3,100 private buses in the state.At present, the fare of ordinary buses in Himachal is ₹1.40 per km in the plains and ₹2.19 in the hills.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/himachal-govt-mulls-cut-in-minimum-bus-fare-by-2-from-new-year-101640811460486.html
30-12-2021||Chandigarh||Jai Ram Thakur launches online RTI portal in Himachal||Chief minister Jai Ram Thakur on Wednesday launched the online RTI portal of the department of administrative reforms.With this Himachal Pradesh became the first state amongst small states and fourth after Maharashtra, Karnataka, and Uttar Pradesh to launch the portal.The CM while appreciating the efforts of the department in launching this online portal said it would facilitate the citizens to apply, get information and appeal under the RTI Act, 2005, at their doorsteps without visiting any office or public authority.He said that this initiative would go a long way in reducing the footfalls in government offices and ensuring timely information access to the seekers.Information technology minister Ram Lal Markanda, secretary, administrative reforms Sandeep Bhatnagar, joint secretary Rajesh Sharma and other senior officers were present on the occasion.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/jai-ram-thakur-launches-online-rti-portal-in-himachal-101640811459253.html
30-12-2021||Chandigarh||Hyderpora encounter: House owner’s kin contest SIT clean chit to security forces||. A day after the police had indicated no wrongdoing on part of the security forces in the Hyderpora encounter, the family members have contested the claims.The police on Tuesday had said that the house owner got killed in “crossfire” after being used as a human shield by a foreign militant and described both Mudasir Gul and Amir Magrey having links with militants. The family members of the civilians have contested the police probe.On November 15, two militants and two local businessmen, identified as Mohammad Altaf Bhat and Mudasir Gul, who were described by the police as “overground workers” of militant outfits, were killed during the operation in Hyderpora. The police said the terrorists had been hiding inside the shopping complex owned by Bhat. However, families contested the police claims and said the forces killed “innocent civilians” in a fake encounter.Sujit Kumar, DIG, said the family members of Altaf Bhat, who owned the building, didn’t give satisfactory replies about the tenants in the building.Brother of Altaf Bhat, while rejecting the SIT report, termed the report “fabricated”.“It’s false. I reject it. My brother had severe torture marks on his body. How come he was made a human shield as claimed by police when 2,000 security forces personnel were present on the spot,” Abdul Majeed Bhat told a local news agency in Srinagar.Saima Bhat, niece of Altaf Bhat, said he was the sole owner of his property so only he was aware of the documents like building permission, rent deed with his tenants and the mode of payment with his tenants. “We checked them at home but we got only a few documents which we have produced before them. The rest of the documents must have been in his personal room in the building, where the firing incident happened. The building was returned on Tuesday and we opened his room, all of the documents regarding his business and files were scattered, we couldn’t find that file and the locker was also open. Whenever they summoned us, we went to meet them,” she said.“It was not repeated summons. In the second summon they asked for documents and on Wednesday they gave us the third summons. The first was to appear before the DIG as the eyewitness. The summons were addressed to Altaf’s eldest brother, Abdul Majid Bhat,” she said.The wife of Mudasir Gul also termed the report “fabricated”. On Tuesday, the PAGD had termed the press briefing of police as a repetition of the old story and cover-up to the incident.Sajjad Lone of the Peoples Conference and Altaf Bukhari of Apni Party also raised questions over the SIT.“The Hyderpora probe was on expected lines. One more addition to hundreds of ornamental probes Any victims of the past or of the future better ensure that they are not caught up in the wrong place at the wrong time or even right place at the wrong time. The onus to save oneself is on the self,” said Sajjad Lone in a tweet.Apni party president Altaf Bukhari said the way SIT had given clean to the forces in the Hyderpora encounter case has raised several questions. “What sort of probe is this. Already the people of J&K have no faith in these probes,” he said.SIT warns political leaders of panel action for ‘speculative’ comments  The police on Wednesday warned political leaders for casting doubts upon the evidence obtained by the Special Investigation Team (SIT) on the Hyderpora encounter case.Soon after SIT head DIG Sujit Kumar on Tuesday during a press conference indicated no wrongdoing on part of the security forces in the Hyderpora encounter, almost all top leaders of mainstream political parties questioned the probe of SIT. Even the families of civilians termed the probe fabricated.“Today, SIT came across several posts on media from some political leaders and family members where they have cast doubts upon the evidence obtained by SIT so far. These people have tried to call it ‘concocted cover-up Story’, ‘ornamental probe’, ‘clean chit to killers’, ‘fairy tale of police’, etc. A magisterial inquiry was initiated and accordingly, the inquiry officer issued a general notice through the electronic and print media and invited members of the general public to record his/her statement if any such person has any acquaintance or knowledge or proof regarding the incident. All such person making statements should have approached the inquiry officer with genuine evidence they have for corroboration or contradiction of the facts surfaced in the case,” the SIT chairman said in a statement.“The SIT constituted in the instant case is still investigating the matter and all such persons are once again advised to provide any type of evidence if they have regarding the incident so that every aspect of the investigation is covered and concluded on merits,” he said.The statement further said that such speculative statements from political leaders have the tendency to create provocation, rumour, fear and alarm among the general masses or particular sections of society.“This kind of approach is against the rule of law and may attract appropriate penal provisions as envisaged under law,” the statement said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/hyderpora-encounter-house-owner-s-kin-contest-sit-clean-chit-to-security-forces-101640811458011.html
30-12-2021||Chandigarh||2,266 international passengers arrived in Himachal since November 20: Union government||A total of 2,266 international passengers have arrived in Himachal Pradesh since November 20, 2021, to date as per the list information shared by the Government of India, a state government spokesperson said on Wednesday.He said only 1,911 international passengers were eligible for RT-PCR testing. The remaining 355 International passengers were not eligible for testing as some of them were untraceable, while others had completed 14 days of home isolation, returned back or were staying out of the state. “Out of the 1,911 eligible travellers, RT-PCR test of 1,078 passengers have been done. Testing is done on the 8th day after arrival or at the onset of Covid symptoms.A total of 10 samples were found positive and these were sent for whole genome sequencing (WGS) to the NCDC, Delhi, for the final confirmation of virus out of which one sample was found positive for the Omicron variant on December 6 and two samples for the Delta variant as on Wednesday, said the spokesperson. He said the positive case of Omicron was a 45-year-old woman from Mandi with a travel history from Canada, who had received both doses of the Covid vaccine. The two positive cases of Delta variant are a 32-year-old woman from Mandi and a 26-year-old man from Hamirpur, respectively.They have a travel history from Estonia and Russia and both are asymptomatic. The women patients have got both the vaccine jabs while the male patient remains unvaccinated, he said.The spokesperson appealed to the public not to panic but follow Covid-appropriate behaviour like wearing masks, maintaining social distance, frequently washing hands or using sanitisers and getting vaccinated with both doses of Covid vaccine.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/2266-international-passengers-arrived-in-himachal-since-november-20-union-government-101640811456558.html
30-12-2021||Chandigarh||Shimla police arrest Gujarat fruit trader for duping commission agent of ₹35 lakh||The Special Investigation Team (SIT) of the Shimla police has arrested a Gujarat man who duped a commission agent at Bhattakufer fruit market of ₹35 lakh. The accused has been identified as 34-year-old Imran Solanki, a resident of Rajkot, Gujarat. The DSP, headquarters, Kamal Kishore Verma said Rajesh, a commission agent at Bhattakufar fruit market, had sent a consignment of apple to Imran Bhai Solanki Fruit Company, a fruit trading company based in Rajkot. The deal was finalized at ₹ 50 lakh. The buyer paid ₹15 lakh to the commission agent but kept on delaying the remaining payment of ₹35 lakh on one pretext or the other. The bank cheques he had given to the agent bounced. After the agent did not get the payment after over a year-an-a-half, he filed the complaint with the police. The police are also scrutinising the documents related to apple purchases. A local court has sent the accused to police remand. Business worth crores runs on credit The apple business in the fruit markets is carried out on credit. Orchardists sell the produce to traders through commission agents. The buyers make the payment for procured apples to the commission agent who then pays the fruit growers after deducting their commission. However, in the process, the buyers sometimes dupe the commission agents.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/shimla-police-arrest-gujarat-fruit-trader-for-duping-commission-agent-of-35-lakh-101640811454955.html
30-12-2021||Chandigarh||Cold wave grips Kashmir; Gulmarg shivers at -10. 4°C, Pahalgam records -5.4 °C||Despite bright sunshine, cold wave continued in Kashmir as Gulmarg recorded the lowest temperature with minus 10. 4°C.After the light snowfall and overcast sky, most of the places in Kashmir saw a rise in day temperature due to the sunshine.The MeT office has predicted cold wave-like conditions till the end of this month.“There is no major snowfall till the end of this month as the weather system or winds blowing from the Mediterranean, which bring most of the precipitation in Kashmir, have subsided. However, there will be a fall in the night temperatures,” said a MeT official.Gulmarg recorded another cold night with mercury going down to -10.4 °C. Another tourist spot Pahalgam recorded -5.4 °C.Jammu registered 7.4 °C, Leh in Ladakh region observed -14.7°C while Dras which is the second coldest place in the world registered -17.4 °C.Chilai Kalan, Kashmir’s harshest 40-day winter period, started on December 2.Kashmir’s winter pans out in three stages starting with Chillai Kalan which brings most of the snowfall and sub-zero temperatures, followed by 20 more days from February 1 which are less intense (called Chillai Khurd) and then lastly 10 days of mild cold (Chille Bache).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/cold-wave-grips-kashmir-gulmarg-shivers-at-10-4-c-pahalgam-records-5-4-c-101640811453752.html
30-12-2021||Chandigarh||Slash Shimla-Dharamshala heli-taxi fare: Jai Ram Thakur||Chief minister Jai Ram Thakur has demanded the operator to slash Shimla-Dharamshala heli-taxi fare to promote tourism in the state. In a meeting held at New Delhi on Wednesday, the CM met managing director, Pawan Hans Ltd, Sanjeev Razdan, a government undertaking company, and reviewed its operations in Himachal Pradesh. The CM also asked to operate direct flights from Shimla to Dharamshala.He asked Razdan to start heli taxi services from Shimla to Manali and also start operation on this new route at the earliest.He said that the state government was committed to providing the best facilities to the residents as well as tourists visiting the state. Strengthening of heli-taxi services would boost tourism in Himachal Pradesh, he said.Razdan assured the CM that the rates for Shimla-Dharamshala heli-taxi would be reduced shortly. He further said that the company would also make efforts to start Shimla-Manali flights and the matter has been taken with the ministry of defence for use of a helipad in Manali. Flights would commence from Shimla to Manali as soon as the clearance is given from the ministry.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/slash-shimla-dharamshala-heli-taxi-fare-jai-ram-thakur-101640811452492.html
30-12-2021||Chandigarh||NGOs allege violation of religious freedom by Chinese government in Tibet||Tibetan NGOs in exile have alleged violation of religious freedom, human rights, arbitrary arrests, incommunicado detentions and torture by the Chinese government in Drago of the Kham region.The Tibetan Youth Congress (TYC) and the Students for a Free Tibet (SFT) in a joint statement alleged that another evidence of the grim religious freedom is the fact that recently the Chinese government destroyed a statue of the Buddha in Drago which stood over 99 feet high.“The monastic and lay communities of Tehor, Drago in the Karze region of Kham jointly spent over 40,000,000 Yuan on this statue for the purpose of staving off the danger of war, natural disasters and alike,” said Sonam Tsering, general secretary of TYC, adding that the practice of constructing statues to prevent catastrophes is well known amongst Tibetans.He said that the statue of the Buddha was legally erected on May 5, 2015, with authorizing documents in order from the district office.However, recently on December 12 the Chinese government ordered the demolition and destroyed the statue as well as the 45 prayer wheels in the vicinity of Drago Monastery.Furthermore, in November this year, Tsering said, they also demolished Drago Monastery’s Gaden Namgyal Monastic school, which served as an important hub of education in the area. The school accommodated over 100 students.The curriculum included Buddhism, general Tibetan language studies, English, Chinese and a few more. Nevertheless, the Chinese government completely destroyed all this in their continued disregard and desecration of the religion of the Tibetan people, their culture and their custom, he alleged.SFT’s programme coordinator Tenzin Passang claimed that China’s policy of Sinicisation has caused the assault on all the Tibetan national identity, most notably their language, religion, and culture. The Chinese government accelerated policies that reduce Tibetans as a proportion of the population and undermine their cultural and religious identity in 2020.“The CCP crackdown against freedom, democracy, and human rights has intensified beyond belief and international governments must come together to take strong, joint, immediate action to send a clear message to China and boycott the Beijing winter Olympic 2022 games which only attempts to ‘sport wash’ the most heinous of human right abuses,” she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ngos-allege-violation-of-religious-freedom-by-chinese-government-in-tibet-101640811447327.html
30-12-2021||Other||Woman held for implicating men in false rape cases in Gurugram||A 24-year-old woman was arrested on Wednesday for allegedly honey trapping and implicating several men in false rape cases and asking them to pay lakhs of rupees to withdraw the cases, said police. According to police, the suspect was calling a victim again and again and was pressurising him to get married or settle the matter after paying her in lakhs. Preet Pal Sangwan, assistant commissioner of police (crime), said that the suspect has registered eight rape and molestation cases at different police stations. “We received a complaint against the suspect on December 23 at New Colony police station from a family who lives in Karnal. The mother of the victim alleged that her son took a house on rent in Gurugram and came in contact with the suspect who met him a couple of times. She started pressurising him to get married but when he refused, she threatened to implicate him in a fake rape case,” he said. Sangwan said the suspect lives with her mother in Gurugram and she called the family from Karnal to Leisure Valley Park for settlement and called a man also to settle the matter. “Despite their meeting, the matter was not solved. So the woman filed a rape case on October 24 at DLF Phase 3 police station,” he said. Fearing arrest, the victim’s family fled to Karnal but the woman kept calling and demanding money and her calls were recorded, police said. On October 26, the Haryana State Commission for Women had written a letter to the state’s director general of police (DGP) demanding a probe into the matter by a special investigation team, alleging that the cases lodged by the suspect are “false”. Of the seven rape cases the suspect has filed, three have been closed, including one in which she changed her statement, said police. Sangwan said the woman has confessed to the crime and has revealed names of her associates. During questioning, the suspect revealed that she filed rape cases at Rajendra Park, Sadar, City, Cyber Crime, Sector 5, New Colony and Sector 10 police stations, police said. Police have recovered a mobile phone from the suspect and it will be scanned by cyber crime police team to check who all were duped by her, Sangwan said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/woman-held-for-implicating-men-in-false-rape-cases-in-gurugram-101640810907122.html
30-12-2021||Delhi||Delhiwale: A temple in Daryaganj||The scenes outside are passing in a blur. All you can see are lights flashing on the glass window. It’s like sitting in a super-fast Shatabdi.But this isn’t a train. It’s a small, little-known temple in Old Delhi’s Daryaganj. The lights are flickering on the glass panes that protect the niches, enshrined with idols of gods. The effect is surreal — you stand still and watch the moving lights, including the reflection of buses and autos wheeling along the road outside, and you feel like you are moving.This afternoon, Pracheen Shiv Mandir is empty. It is difficult to spot the temple from the pavement outside — the entrance consists of a barely discernible opening between a bookshop and a store selling motor tyres. To make it even more discreet, this narrow entry is mostly taken over by a staircase. But inside, it’s a large, airy room. No bulb is lit for the time being, and the temple is immersed in a partial darkness that feels welcoming to a person coming from the chaotic daylight of the world outside. A handful of bells are hanging low from the roof, along with a couple of damru, the drum often identified with Lord Shiv. Indeed, a whole part of the floor is taken over by the temple’s sanctum sanctorum, a shiv lingam. The two damrus are hanging right above it.The temple may be pracheen (ancient), but the building is modern. The cream-coloured wall would probably go unnoticed somewhere else, but here, because of the combined influence of lights and shadows, it has acquired a remarkable presence, and catch the eye with character and limpidity. Towards one corner of the roof lie two broad slots that let the sunrays partly percolate into the temple.Although you can clearly see the busy traffic from inside the temple, and hear the sounds of the car horns, and the blab of the pedestrians, the place is permeated with the feel of a remote mountain cave. The light outside is very close, but appears inaccessible, like the clouds one can see from a plane window. Sitting in this temple brings utmost restfulness.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhiwale-a-temple-in-daryaganj-101640809525811.html
30-12-2021||Other||Gurugram: HSVP plans to generate ₹1k cr via land auction||The Haryana Shahari Vikas Pradhikaran (HSVP) has proposed to auction 100 acres of land falling under the jurisdiction of the estate office one, which covers mostly Old Gurugram sectors and Pataudi area. It is expected that the authority will be able to generate around ₹1,000 crore from the auction, said officials on Wednesday. The officials said that they have identified the land and the proposal is being sent to the headquarters for auctioning the land. Vikas Dhanda, estate officer one, HSVP, said that they have identified land in sectors 16, 9, 10, and 23A, and also in Pataudi, which shall be put on auction for residential, commercial and institutional purposes. “This will help in the monetization of land owned by the authority and also make more properties available for residential and commercial buyers. We are also working to remove encroachments from the government land so that it can also be sold to buyers,” he said. As per the plan being developed by HSVP, Dhanda said that in sector 16, the authority has identified two large sites measuring over 2,500 square metres each that shall be sold for commercial development. A number of large shopping cum commercial offices are also being carved in this area, which shall be put on auction, he said. Besides, The authority has identified 30 residential plots for auction in Sector 9. Fourteen residential plots near Sector 10 community centre will also be put on the block. The HSVP is also planning to sell a 6.5 acre site in Sector 23A for setting up a private hospital.The officials said that two sites of two acres each which were earmarked for parking complexes will also be sold for setting up commercial complexes in Sector 10 and Sector 37. Around 170 plots spread over 6.54 acres of land have also been selected in Pataudi, said Dhanda. Under the Ashiyana Scheme for the economically weaker section, the HSVP will develop and sell 162 plots. All these properties would be sold through online auction, said Dhanda, adding that once the approval comes from the headquarters, they will put the sites on auction. It is to be noted that from June, 2021 to December 7, 2021, properties worth ₹5,761 crore have been auctioned by HSVP across the state.
30-12-2021||Chandigarh||HAP Cup: Ravi XI score win over Parveen XI||Ravi XI registered a 22-run win over Parveen XI Heroes on the second day of the ongoing HAP Cup held at Tau Devi Lal Stadium, Panchkula, on Wednesday.The four-side T20 tournament for differently abled cricketers is organised by the Physically Challenged Cricket Association of India (PCCAI) in association with Differently Abled Cricket Council of India (DCCI) and International Celebrity Cricket League (ICCL).Batting first, Ravi XI scored 153 runs for the loss of five wickets in the stipulated 20 overs.Shivashankara GS with 50 runs in 49 balls was the highest score for the side. Opener Anil Sharma scored 37 runs for 35 balls.As far as bowling department of Parveen XI was concerned, Iqbal Khan took two wickets for 15 runs in four overs. He was the most successful bowler for the sideIn response to Ravi XI’s 153 runs, Parveen XI were short of target by 22 runs. Their batting line could only manage to put 131 runs for the loss of 7 wickets in 20 overs.Amir Rather and Bishal Kahar took two wickets each for Ravi XI.Ravi XI’s Shivshankar GS was adjudged man of the match.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/hap-cup-ravi-xi-score-win-over-parveen-xi-101640810190625.html
30-12-2021||Chandigarh||After hung verdict, parties in Chandigarh hold cards close to vest in race for mayor’s post||Two days on, all three parties – Aam Aadmi Party (AAP), Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and Congress claim they would install their mayor.Even though no party has attained a clear majority in the recently concluded Chandigarh MC elections, senior leaders of all three parties maintained that none of them is going to extend support to the other and that they are not in talks with each other. They would bank on individual councillors’ decision, said party chiefs. Congress has eight seats, BJP 12 (13, with a MP vote) and AAP has 14.Meanwhile, behind the scenes, parties have stepped up their efforts to generate the requisite numbers in the MC House for getting their candidate elected.Both parties approaching us: Congress chiefCongress councillors are particularly facing the pressure from other parties, claims the party. Congress president Subhash Chawla, said, “Both parties are approaching our councillors. They think Congress has the lowest number of councillors and the party doesn’t have a chance to win the mayoral election. So, they believe that Congress councillors can be easily poached. But they are totally mistaken. The people’s mandate is with the Congress, we have the highest vote share, and the next mayor will be from Congress.”Party’s first-time councillor and former Panjab University student union president Sachin Galav even claimed that he was approached with an offer of ₹2 crore to switch sides. He didn’t produce any evidence for his claim but alleged that both AAP and BJP tried to fix a meeting with him, and their “representatives” made the offer.Senior Congress leader Devinder Singh Babla, whose wife Harpreet Kaur got elected from ward 10, also claimed that both AAP and BJP have sent feelers to them. “All parties are contacting us. We are in a wait and watch position,” Babla said. AAP internal strains spell troubleAAP, which made major and surprising gains in its first MC election in the city, is facing internal strains on the choice of candidate for the mayor’s post.The mayor’s post is reserved for a woman councillor in the first and fourth year of a MC house.“AAP has seven women councillors. Their alignment is different groups within the party. Even though, among the four-groups within the party, the group led by the party’s co-incharge Pardeep Chhabra has ascendency, the other three groups led by party president Prem Garg, veteran leader and former MP Harmohan Dhawan and election campaign committee chairman Chander Mukhi Sharma can still make their presence felt,” said a senior party leader requesting anonymity.On the selection of the candidate, Chhabra, said, “We are yet to decide on this and will take a call on it later. We are currently busy with preparations for Thursday’s road show of AAP supremo Arvind Kejriwal.”On the party’s strategy for mayoral elections, Chhabra, said, “After the first round of voting, Congress will be eliminated. Thereafter, AAP, which has the maximum 14 votes, will be declared the winner. Though, voting will be done through secret ballot, there is always a fear of cross-voting.” Kejriwal in city todayAAP national convenor and Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal will lead the “Victory March” on December 30, 2021. The march will start at Hotel Arima light point at 12.30 pm and will continue for around a kilometre towards Sector 23.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/after-hung-verdict-parties-in-chandigarh-hold-cards-close-to-vest-in-race-for-mayor-s-post-101640809886841.html
30-12-2021||Other||Faridabad: Man stabbed to death by cousins over dispute||A 37-year-old man was stabbed to death on Tuesday allegedly by his four cousin brothers in a Faridabad village following a dispute over the installation of a borewell, police said. The incident took place in Pakhal village near Dhauj in Faridabad around 2.30pm when the victim, Rakesh Kumar, had gone to pick up his children from school, said police. According to police, Kumar wanted to install a borewell nearly 25 days ago in his fields but the suspects opposed it as the power cable (needed to run the borewell) was passing through their fields. The victim was beaten up five days ago too by the suspects over the dispute, police said. After stabbing Kumar, the suspects, identified as Lalit, Nitesh, Bhavinder and Sonu, fled the spot, police said, adding that the villagers took him to a private hospital where he was declared brought dead. Police said that they arrested Sonu on Wednesday.Narender Kadiyan, deputy commissioner of police (crime), said, “Kumar was attacked by his cousins with a sharp object. They stabbed him several times following which he fell on the road and was bleeding profusely,” he said. On the basis of a complaint filed by deceased’s father Krishan Kumar, a case under sections 148 (rioting, armed with deadly weapon),149 (unlawful assembly guilty of offence committed in prosecution of common object) and 302 (murder) of Indian Penal Code was registered against the four suspects at Dhauj police station.However, the father, a retired army man, alleged that he had complained to police when the tiff broke out five days ago but no action was taken against the suspects. “I have CCTV footage of the incident which took place on December 23. The suspects’ father is a retired policeman, so he had influenced the police teams not to take action against his sons,” he said. “The dispute escalated about a week ago and the police control room was informed, after which police reached the spot and they made both of us compromise with each other,” Krishan said. He also alleged that his son was assaulted by one of the policemen posted at Dhauj police station while he was not even at fault.  Kadiyan refuted allegations levelled by the victim’s father and said that police were conducting investigation and later both parties had compromised following which no action was taken.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/faridabad-man-stabbed-to-death-by-cousins-over-dispute-101640809648271.html
30-12-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh Golf Club goes to polls on January 30||The annual elections of the Chandigarh Golf Club (CGC) will be held on January 30 next year. One of the most prominent clubs of Chandigarh, CGC last witnessed voting in 2018, as the presidents were chosen unanimously afterwards. Bobby Sandhu was elected president in 2018 through voting. According to Dr GS Kochhar, vice-president and chairman (media and publicity), CGC, election to elect the president and the managing committee will be held through voting this time. “As many as 1,800 members have the voting right to choose new office-bearers of the club. It is expected that around 900-950 members will cast their vote during election. They will choose next House by the means of polls. Most likely three candidates will be vying for the post of CGC president,” said Dr GS Kochhar. Brig JS Phoolka will be the returning officer during the elections. Interested candidates will be filing their nominations from January 4 to 8 and the withdrawals will happen on January 11 by 5pm. The annual general meeting of the club will also take place on January 30. The final results will be out on January 31. Ravibir Singh Grewal is the current CGC president.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-golf-club-goes-to-polls-on-january-30-101640809646999.html
30-12-2021||Other||Gurugram civic body sets June 30 target for reviving 72 ponds||In a bid to conserve water and mitigate localised waterlogging problem, the Municipal Corporation of Gurugram (MCG) has set a target of reviving 72 ponds by June next year, said officials on Wednesday.As per district forest officer (DFO) Subhash Yadav who is also the nodal officer of MCG’s environment and sustainability wing, the civic body has so far identified 72 ponds across the city for redevelopment and a survey for identifying more such water bodies is still underway.The DFO clarified that the 72 does not include ponds once mentioned in the district’s revenue records as there is now a park, religious structure, community, or illegal building standing at the site and it virtually has no scope for revival.“During a discussion with MCG commissioner Mukesh Kumar Ahuja last week, it was jointly decided to prepare estimates for the 72 ponds identified in the MCG area as well as issue tenders for the work by January 31 next year. We have also set a deadline to complete the work by June 30 next year before the onset of monsoon,” said Yadav.The matter of reviving ponds was also brought before MCG councillors and senior officials during the civic body’s House meeting on Monday. Ahuja had apprised the House that the entire initiative has been taken up with the aim of water conservation, water management, and mitigating localised waterlogging.As per the district administration’s groundwater cell report, the water table in the city dropped to 36.99 metres in 2021 from 33.23 metres in 2018.“Of the 72 ponds, 58 are under MCG’s possession. Directions have been issued to ensure all paperwork for the project is completed by January 31 and on-ground work starts immediately,” said Ahuja.Ahuja said that he also issued directions to ensure the project is not cost intensive, and that the officials achieve the basic motive of desilting a pond, erecting a path around it, securing it with a boundary wall, and also planting native vegetation for its revival.“Any cost intensive purpose in the ponds such as electrification, constructing themed based park, amphitheatres, localised museum will be taken up in subsequent phases,” said Ahuja.The MCG commissioner said that he has also directed the officials to prepare details of the other 24 ponds identified within the MCG area from departments such as the Haryana Shahari Vikas Pradhikaran, and send them to departments concerned by next week so that the taking over process can be started on an immediate basis.
30-12-2021||Chandigarh||After MC poll debacle, knives out against Chandigarh Congress chief Subhash Chawla||The voices of dissent and chorus for a change in Congress’ city leadership has burst on to the surface as the party finds itself relegated to the third spot in Chandigarh municipal corporation (MC) elections. In a city, once considered a Congress stronghold, the party has been outsmarted and out-campaigned by debutant Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) which grabbed most of the anti-incumbency votes against the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP). Congress could secure only eight seats, while AAP won 14 and BJP retained 12 seats. Attacking Congress’ Chandigarh state president Subhash Chawla, senior party leader Devinder Singh Babla said, “It was Congress which allowed the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) to stand up and get so many seats. This is the failure of the party’s city president. He couldn’t even get his own son elected.” Babla himself didn’t fight the election, but his wife Harpreet Kaur contested from his seat and won by the highest victory margin in this year’s civic poll. “Party president didn’t cooperate with candidates. While other parties were funding their candidates, the Congress was asking for money from candidates. Nobody from the party came to our ward to support us during the campaign, it was only because of our family’s hard work that we could win,” said Babla. Putting the entire blame for the loss on Chawla, Babla, said, “It is the president who is responsible for the win and loss. He was deciding on tickets and managing the entire show. It is not for me to say, but for the party to decide whether they continue with him (Chawla) or not.” Babla’s sentiments were echoed by party’s chief spokesperson HS Lucky, who lost by 11 votes from ward 2. “There was no support from the party to the candidates. We were on our own. High command and Pawan Banal should reconsider all these factors so that Congress can become strong again,” said Lucky. Stating that bad decisions by the leadership cost Congress heavily, Manoj Lubana, president Chandigarh Youth Congress, said, “There was a massive flaw in ticket distribution. The stage was set, Congress was certain to return in the municipal corporation but internal conflict for the seat distribution and denying the deserving candidates a chance to contest the election has proved to be a nightmare for Congress.” He further questioned, “What was the need to delay the distribution. Declaring the tickets two days before the last date of nomination only took us away from victory. No step was taken to talk to the candidates who were not given tickets so as to channelise their efforts for Congress’ victory.” Demanding action against all those who deprived us of this victory, Lubana, added, “It is time the Chandigarh Congress unit changes for a better future.” Meanwhile, a senior party leader, requesting anonymity, said, “While other parties were bringing big guns to support their candidates, Congress didn’t get anybody big except for Randeep Singh Surjewala. They could have brought Navjot Singh Sidhu and Charanjit Singh Channi. Congress didn’t even do outdoor advertising for its candidates.” Chawla meets high command, accepts moral responsibilityResponding to criticism, Chawla, said, “I have made my position clear to the high command. I have explained the reasons for rge party’s performance. As the party president, I have taken the moral responsibility for the party falling short of the expectations.” Talking to HT from Delhi, Chawla, said, “I am in Delhi today, and met the senior party leaders and shared all the details with them. I have left it to them to decide on my future in the party.” On the party leaders gunning for him at public forums, Chawla, said, “I will advise party workers to air their opinions in the party meeting being called to discuss all these issues. We will analyse what factors lead to these results, and all their opinions and suggestions will be taken on board.” 
30-12-2021||Chandigarh||With 33 Covid cases in Chandigarh, tricity count shoots past 40-mark||In a clear indication of an upward surge in Covid cases, Chandigarh’s fresh cases shot up to 33 on Wednesday, taking tricity’s Covid cases above the 40-mark.With Panchkula recording seven new cases and Mohali having six, the total infections in the tricity stood at 46. No deaths were reported from any of the three jurisdictions. The active case count stood at 234, of which 126 are in Chandigarh, 59 in Panchkula and 49 in Mohali. Chandigarh’s total cases till date have reached 65,829. While 64,624 patients have recovered, 1,079 have lost the battle to the virus. In Mohali, among the total 69,117 cases, 67,994 patients have been cured and 1,074 have succumbed.Of the 30,957 infections logged in Panchkula so far, 30,517 people have beaten the virus and 381 have died.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/with-33-covid-cases-in-chandigarh-tricity-count-shoots-past-40mark-101640808806962.html
30-12-2021||Other||Nuh jail to be operational by Feb next year, to reduce pressure on Gurugram prison||The new district jail in Nuh will be operational in February next year, senior officials said on Wednesday, adding that it will reduce the pressure on Gurugram’s Bhondsi jail which also has inmates from Nuh. Currently, relatives of the inmates from Nuh lodged in the Bhondsi jail have to travel around 50km to meet them. Muhammad Akil, director general of police (prison), said the project started in May 2018 but due to the Covid-19 pandemic, it got delayed by almost a year. “Now, the jail will be operational by February, 2022. The prison building is constructed over 29 acres and has the capacity to accommodate over 1,000 inmates,” he said. According to the officials, the prison will have an administrative block, five male barracks, one female barrack, three special security enclosures of various capacities, a 30-bed hospital, a warden’s hostel, an electric sub-station, and 69 houses of various categories for the officials posted in Nuh prison, among other facilities. Besides, there will be one sewage treatment plant of 1.25 millions litre per day capacity. The jail is just one kilometre from the mini secretariat, said the officials, adding that one underground water tank of 500,000 litres capacity to meet any emergency and seven rain water harvesting wells have also been constructed. The new jail will take extra load off the Bhondsi jail, which is overburdened. The Bhondsi jail was constructed in October 2003 over 98 acres of land. In many cases, inmates from other jails in Haryana are also brought to Bhondsi jail on medical grounds and due to administrative reasons. “Bhondsi jail has a capacity to accommodate over 2,500 inmates, but it is packed beyond its capacity. Managing all the inmates with limited resources is difficult,” jail superintendent Harinder Singh said, adding that over 3,300 prisoners are currently lodged in the jail. There are 19 jails across Haryana and Bhondsi jail has the highest capacity, said the officials. Farooq Ahmed, a resident of Jajuka village in Nuh, said that currently he has to travel over 50km to meet his children lodged in Bhondsi jail. “My two sons are lodged in Bhondsi jail. For the last two years, I have been visiting the jail twice a week. We are poor people and cannot afford the expense. Since a jail has been built in our district, it will benefit family members of inmates,” he said. 
30-12-2021||Chandigarh||In Chandigarh, Covid vaccination for 15 to 18 age group to start from January 3||Come January 3 and Chandigarh will start vaccinating children in the 15 to 18 age group. There are about 72,000 eligible children in this age group in the city, authorities said.By Wednesday evening, the health department had received as many as 93,000 doses of Covaxin, for vaccinating the children.A review meeting to discuss the modalities was convened by the Chandigarh administration on the day, wherein health experts from Government Medical College and Hospital, Sector-32, director health services, Government Multi Specialty Hospital, Sector-16 and others were present.While six centres have been identified for vaccinating children, the UT will also be setting up special centres at some government schools. Once schools open after winter vacations, detailed schedule will be chalked out by the director, school education, for holding camps in schools.Mohali and Panchkula are still awaiting orders from their respective state government for orders on vaccinating children. Precaution dose for health workersA precaution dose will be administered to all healthcare workers, frontline workers and around 15,600 citizens of 60-plus group with co-morbidities and will be administered from January 10 onwards. A gap of nine months from the date of administration of the second dose is compulsory.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/in-chandigarh-covid-vaccination-for-15-to-18-age-group-to-start-from-january-3-101640807967475.html
30-12-2021||Other||Gurugram: Highest single-day spike in Covid cases in 7 months||The district on Wednesday reported 151 fresh cases of Covid-19, taking the tally of active cases to 502, according to the bulletin of the district health department. This is the highest single-day spike in cases in Gurugram since May 28, when the district had reported 171 new cases. Officials from the district health department said that on Wednesday, the test positivity rate in the district was a little over 2.5%, which stood at 0.5% a week ago. In the past 24 hours, 5,628 tests were conducted in the district, they said, adding that 27 patients also recovered on Wednesday. Also, the last time when Gurugram witnessed over 500 active cases was on June 9 when the district had 581 active cases. Dr Virender Yadav, chief medical officer of Gurugram, said, “Cases have been increasing in Gurugram in the past few days and testing has also been increased. Cases are being reported as individual incidents and in small clusters of four-five cases, which are mostly from the same family. We will be sending suggestions for new micro containment zones to the district administration on Thursday. We urge people to follow Covid-19 appropriate behaviour and take all precautions, along with timely vaccination.” Meanwhile, the district on Tuesday reported two cases of Omicron, with the patients having no travel history, the officials said, adding that the two patients who have already tested negative for Covid-19 were fully vaccinated. The patients tested negative on December 26, but the genome sequencing results came on Tuesday, the officials said.The Gurugram administration on Monday declared five containment zones in as many localities amid rising cases of Covid-19 in the district. The deputy commissioner issued an order in this regard on Monday, a copy of which is with HT. The five containment zones include residential societies in Sector 58, Sector 69, Sector 28, and two houses each in Sector 45 and Palam Vihar. With this, the total number of containment zones in the district is 14, the officials said.Amid the rising cases, doctors are wary and urging people to follow Covid-19 safety protocols. Dr Ashutosh Shukla, senior director for internal medicine at Max Hospital in Gurugram, said, “Most of the Covid-19 cases are people with mild symptoms. If the patients do not have any travel history, they usually are infected from people having a foreign or domestic travel history, with whom they might have come in contact during social gatherings. The recent Omicron cases in Gurugram can be one such example, and as samples of not every patient is being sent for genome sequencing, we do not know how much the variant has already spread among the public.” Dr Manoj Goel, director of pulmonology at Fortis Memorial Research Institute in the city, said, “The recent cases show that even those who are fully vaccinated can get infected. As the new variant spreads fast, people need to follow Covid-19 safety protocols all the more now. People must go for vaccination for developing immunity and not think that they will develop immunity after getting infected.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/gurugram-highest-single-day-spike-in-covid-cases-in-7-months-101640807786694.html
30-12-2021||Delhi||Delhi’s test positivity rate snaps 212-day streak, surges across 1%||The Covid-19 test positivity rate in Delhi went past the 1% mark for the first time in 212 days on Wednesday, as the city’s case graph continued to bend upwards in a surge likely driven by the Omicron variant of the coronavirus.Delhi added 923 cases of Covid-19 on the day, as infections increased 86% over the previous day, when the city had 496 new cases, according to the state’s daily health bulletin. These infections came on the back of over 71,000 tests, of which 1.29% samples tested positive. The bulletin did not add any Covid-19 deaths to the tally.Over the past week, the city added an average of 370 cases each day, the highest this number has been since mid-June.The test positivity rate in Delhi was below 1% for 212 days; it was last above this mark on May 31 when 1.25% of tests were positive. Tuesday’s number was the highest since May 28, when the positivity rate was 1.59%.Experts regard the test positivity rate as an important statistic to evaluate an infection outbreak in a region. The trajectory of this number can provide insights into whether cases in a city will rise or fall in the coming days: a rising positivity rate generally means cases will rise in the immediate future, while a dropping positivity rate tends to precede a drop in new infections.The World Health Organization (WHO) recommends that the positivity rate from a region that has a comprehensive testing programme should be at or below 5% for at least two weeks before it can be considered that the outbreak is under control.New infections started increasing sharply since mid-December, with the caseload now at levels of early-June, when the city was beginning to recover from the effects of the brutal fourth Covid-19 wave. In the first week of December, Delhi added an average of 48 cases each day. This number crept up to 49 in the second week. The city then logged 85 cases on average each day in the third week of December. In the eight days since then, Delhi has added an average of 339 fresh cases every day.To be sure, an overwhelming majority of hospital beds are unoccupied even amid the rise in cases. Data from the state government on Wednesday showed that more than 97% of over 21,500 beds for reserved for Covid-19 patients in the Capital are vacant. Further, the state government has also previously assured that the number of beds can be scaled up to 37,000 in days, if required.The state’s larger plans involve setting up over 65,000 Covid-19 beds in the coming weeks.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhis-test-positivity-rate-snaps-212-day-streak-surges-across-101640807274236.html
30-12-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana | Year on, Pakhowal road RUB project ready for trial run||A year and several deadlines later, the Pakhowal Road railway-under bridge is finally ready for a trial run, which is scheduled to take place on January 1. While the railway under bridge, which has been built near Pakhowal road canal bridge, was under construction, residents had to take detour through Model Town Extension and Malhar Road to reach Sarabha Nagar. Cabinet minister Bharat Bhushan Ashu, who along with mayor Balkar Sandhu and municipal commissioner Pardeep Sabharwal, inspected the project on Wednesday took to social media to announce the imminent opening of the under-bridge. “ Today, inspected the ongoing work of the railways Under Bridge at Sarabha Nagar. We would be taking the trial run of RUB-3 at Pakhowal Road on January 1, 2022 and after the trial run and necessary approvals from the concerned authorities the RUB will soon be opened for the public,” he posted on Twitter. Multiple missed deadlines The ₹120-crore project, which had been initiated in December 2020 under the Smart City Mission, was initially supposed to be completed by August 31, 2021. However, the deadline was extended to December 31, 2021, and then March 2022. The closure of a stretch of Pakhowal Road, extending from Pakhowal Road Canal Bridge to Hero Bakery Chowk, had inconvenienced commuters and shopkeepers, whose businesses were hit due to the low footfall. In fact, several shopkeepers had to relocate from the stretch in the wake of mounting losses. An MC official, who did now wish to be named, said, “The under bridge would have opened much sooner had work not been suspended for around three weeks after the main sewer was damaged.” ‘Assembly polls propelling force’ After inspecting the Pakhowal Road Project , Ashu met MC officials to discuss the integrated command and control centre being established at the Zone D office and other developmental projects. Another MC official, on condition of anonymity, said opening the under bridge and restoring the flow of traffic is important for the minister ahead of the assembly polls as authorities have been receiving a lot of flak from commuters and shopkeepers over the slow pace of the project.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/year-on-ludhiana-pakhowal-road-rub-project-ready-for-trial-run-101640807606708.html
30-12-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: Three held for assaulting, robbing restaurant owner||Police have arrested three men in their mid-20s for assaulting and robbing a restaurant owner of his mobile and purse near Nehru park in Sector 22. The accused arrested have been identified as Nandu Lal Turi (23), Sinod Mandal (21) and Kabira Kumar (22), all from Jharkhand. The stolen items and other important documents have been recovered from them. In his complaint, Parveen Duggal of Sector 22 told the police that he was walking to the mobile market in Sector 22 on Tuesday to get his iPhone 7 repaired. As he neared towards the gate of Nehru Park, the trio attacked him and snatched the valuables. Police said that seven cases have already been registered against the accused, and they are part of a gang that comes to Chandigarh during the festive season and commit thefts, snatchings and robberies. A case under Sections 341 (wrongful restraint), 379B (snatching) and 394 (voluntarily causing hurt in committing robbery) of Indian Penal Code was registered at Sector 17 police station. They were produced before a court and sent to two days in police remand. MORE NEWS IN BRIEFS4 held with drugs in separate cases Four people were arrested with drugs in separate cases. The district crime cell of Chandigarh Police arrested a resident of Khuda Ali Sher and recovered 8.55-kg poppy husk, 704-gm poppy seed and 100-gm opium from his possession. The accused has been identified as Rajwant Singh alias Kohla, 60. Police also arrested one Vinod Kumar, 28, of Phase 2, Ram Darbar, and recovered 7-gm heroin from him. The crime branch nabbed two men, Aman Sharma, 37, of Sector 40, and Deepak alias Amit, 24, of DM Colony , and recovered 27-gm heroin from them. Sec-25 man held for gambling The district crime cell of Chandigarh Police arrested a resident of Sector 25, while he was while gambling and recovered ₹12,800 from him. The accused has been identified as Shashi Kumar, 39, A case under Gambling Act was registered at Sector 11 police station and he was released on bail. Manimajra man duped of ₹60L A Manimajra resident was duped of ₹60 lakh on the pretext of the sale of a piece of land. The accused have been identified as Rohit Kumar and his accomplices Azmat Singh, Balraj Patwari, Amandeep and Abhi. In his complaint, Kuldeep Singh alleged that he had purchased a land from Kumar through Patwari, to whom he had even paid ₹60 lakh in two instalments. But, he never got possession the land. A cheating case has been registered.Roller skating: Chandigarh girls emerge champions  Chandigarh girls’ team outplayed hosts Punjab 3-2 in the thrilling final match to emerge champions in the cadet category during the 59th National roller hockey skating championship held at the United Rollers Sports Club in Dhelpur Punjab, recently. Playing in the semi-final tie, the spirited Chandigarh girls beat Maharashtra by 12-0. Harpreet Singh and Rohit Randhawa were the coaches with the victorious team. Pay scales row: PUTA continues to protest at campusThe Panjab University Teachers Association (PUTA) on Wednesday continued their protest at the varsity campus over the non-implementation of the revised UGC pay scales as per the seventh pay commission by the Punjab government. The indefinite protest of University and college teachers of Punjab and Chandigarh started on December 1. Meanwhile, the non-teaching staff of the varsity continued their protest for the third day in a row over the delay in compassionate appointments and non-implementation of 6th pay commission. Ambala church vandalised: Accused sent to six-day remandA day after two men were arrested for allegedly vandalising Jesus Christ’s statue and other property at Holy Redeemer Catholic Church last week, an Ambala court on Wednesday sent them to six days in police remand. The accused, Sandeep and Ravinder, both residents of Vashisht Nagar in Cantonment, were arrested by the CIA-1 team of the police. Cyber fraud: Hisar man arrestedThe cyber crime investigation cell of Chandigarh Police on Wednesday arrested a Hisar resident for duping people online. The accused, identified as Pardeep alias Vicky, 31, was arrested after the cyber cell received a complaint, which stated that the accused lured him with promises, and he transferred ₹86,000 to his bank account, but he didn’t fulfil them. The accused was produced in court on Wednesday and sent to three day police remand. Death in lift crashPolice arrested the owner of a tent house in Kajehri for culpable homicide after a labourer died in a lift crash on December 27. The accused has been identified as Harkesh Singh alias Kesar Singh, owner of Dhiman Tent House. A case was registered based on the complaint of Deepak Yadav of Kajheri village. He alleged that due to the negligence of Harkesh, a labourer, Ganesh Mehta of Bihar, had died after a lift crashed.Junior tennis: Vanya ousts Saanvi to enter semisThird seed Vanya Arora outplayed Saanvi Garg 6-4,6-2 to enter the girls’ U-16 semi-finals of the AITA National Ranking Championship for U-16 at the Roots Tennis Academy in Zirakpur on Wednesday. In the other girls’ U-16 quarter-finals, second seed Suhani Gaur (2) beat Rubani Kaur Sidhu 6-4,7-5, Snigdha Ruhil defeated Radha Sadhra 6-2,6-2 and Ashwarya Anand Jadhav got the better of Saravnoor Kaur 6-0,6-1. In the boys’ U-16 quarter-finals, top seed Deepam Malik continued his fine form to beat Ronit Gupta 6-1,6-0.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarhthree-held-for-assaulting-robbing-restaurant-owner-101640807486383.html
30-12-2021||Chandigarh||Ambala’s cloth traders anxious over GST hike from Jan 1||As the year draws to a close, cloth and textile traders in Ambala are anxious over the hike in GST from 5% to 12%, which is applicable from January 1. Merchants dealing in clothing and allied products in Ambala prosper in areas like Railway Road, Kalka Chowk and Agrasen Chowk and draw customers from across North Indian states. Traders say that even manufacturers have stopped supplying goods for the past few weeks, and will also face problems adapting to the new tax, while the end consumer will ultimately have to bear the brunt. The Ambala Wholesale Cloth Market is the largest cloth trading market in the sub-continent and has a dense cluster of nearly 1,000 shops, employing thousands of people. The market specialises in handloom, suits, shirts and allied clothing accessories.Harish Ahuja, adviser of the Ambala wholesale cloth market association, said that the industry is already struggling due to the pandemic and rise in yarn prices. Ahuja suspects that the GST hike will further give space to illegal trading. Vishal Batra, president of the association, said that the tax increase will also affect their sale and they will have to change the labelling of the existing goods, which is time consuming. The body has also wrote to Union finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman, Union textile Minister Piyush Goyal and Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar in October this year, seeking repeal of the hike. “The inverted tax structure impacts a small part of the industry. Barely 15% of the industry is impacted by an inverted rate of tax on input, using man-made fibres. Around 85% of the industry uses natural fibres grown and produced within the country and taxed at the lowest rate of 5%. Sacrificing the interest of the whole industry for the correction of a small portion will not be a good proposition. Proposal to enhance rate on the entire industry to correct the anomaly in a smaller portion of the industry would not be justifiable,” an excerpt from a copy of the letter reads.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ambalas-cloth-traders-anxious-over-gst-hike-from-jan-1-101640807136685.html
30-12-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana | Medic arrested for raping 4-year-old girl at clinic||A 38-year-old registered medical practitioner was arrested for allegedly raping a four-year-old girl in his clinic on Tibba Road on Wednesday.The accused, Dr Ajay Sharma of Guru Nanak Estate, Tibba Road, was arrested on the victim’s parents’ complaint. “Our daughter went to play outside at around 1.30pm on December 28. She went inside the clinic to play but when she returned, she was crying and said she was in pain. We took her to a hospital and registered a police complaint. A case was registered under Section 376 (rape) of the Indian Penal Code and sections of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act (POSCO) Act at Tibba police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-medic-arrested-for-raping-4-year-old-girl-at-clinic-101640807126497.html
30-12-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab polls: Cong not to name CM face, reiterates Jakhar||Chandigarh : Punjab Congress campaign committee chairman Sunil Jakhar on Wednesday said that the Congress will not announce a chief ministerial face for the upcoming polls in the state. Jakhar said the party had never named its CM-face before the elections except in 2017 when Capt Amarinder Singh’s name was announced. “We will contest the elections under collective leadership,” the former Punjab Congress chief said after a meeting of the Congress screening committee in Delhi. The campaign committee head’s statement, a reiteration of the decision taken by the panel in its meeting on December 15, is significant as state Congress president Navjot Singh Sidhu is making a case for naming the chief ministerial face, obliquely positioning himself for the position. Candidates shortlisted for 55 seats The screening committee, constituted under All India Congress Committee (AICC) general secretary Ajay Maken for the selection of candidates, is learnt to have shortlisted candidates for about 55 of the 117 assembly seats in the state. “In these constituencies, the party either has sitting MLAs or not more two claimants for the ticket. These names will be soon recommended to the Central Election Committee which takes the final decision on candidates,” a party leader privy to deliberations in the screening panel meeting said. The panel is also not in favour of allowing change of seats even as some party MLAs and ministers are keen to move to safer segments. Besides Maken and Jakhar, the screening panel meeting was attended by chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi, Sidhu, Punjab affairs in-charge Harish Chaudhary and joint secretary Krishna Allavaru.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-polls-cong-not-to-name-cm-face-reiterates-jakhar-101640807010583.html
30-12-2021||Chandigarh||Haryana governor inaugurates oxygen plant at Karnal’s KCGMC||Haryana governor Bandaru Dattatraya on Wednesday said all hospitals in state should make arrangements for online registration of patients in OPDs so that they do not face unnecessary delays and hardship.The governor urged people in state to take advantage of the technology by making online registration if the facility is available in their hospital instead of spending hours in queues.He said it is the first priority of the government to provide best healthcare facilities in state-run hospitals and the government is keen to develop the infrastructure where it is feeling shortage.The governor also inaugurated a 1,000 LMP PAS oxygen plant at KCGMC in Karnal. As per the district health authorities, the oxygen plant has been built by the Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO) under the PM CARES Fund.The governor said setting up of the oxygen plant is to further improve supply of medical oxygen. Earlier, he had interacted with patients and medical students of the hospital.Responding to questions from students, the governor said they are the future of the country and should strive to fulfil the expectations of people. He urged medical students to maintain cleanliness on hospital premises and classrooms.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/haryana-governor-inaugurates-oxygen-plant-at-karnal-s-kcgmc-101640806947115.html
30-12-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana | After court complex, alternative routes sealed to police commissioner office||Two days after alternative routes leading to the district court complex were sealed in the wake of the blast, cops on Wednesday blocked all passages leading to the police commissioner’s office from the deputy commissioner’s office. While senior officials remained tight-lipped about the development, an official, privy to the matter, on condition of anonymity, said the passages had been sealed after receiving “certain intelligence inputs.” The blockage of certain routes left several citizens disgruntled, and they could be seen arguing with cops. “Please enter from the main door near the CIA staff office. We have orders not to allow anybody to enter from here,” a cop, deployed near one of the barricades, was heard reasoning with a displeased local. Pathways blocked to stop protesters: SADAlleging that the routes had been blocked to stop protesters from entering, Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) leader Maheshinder Singh Grewal said the cops were merely using “security threat” as an excuse. “It is citizen’s democratic right to protest. With the law-and-order situation in a shambles, people are trying to reach out to the top cop seeking redressal of their grievances. However, now entrances to the commissioner’s office have been plugged,” Grewal said.Staffers strike adds to confusion Some visitors complained that the excise and taxation department and government treasury were also located in the same building, but cops were not letting anybody enter, claiming that the staff was on strike, and the departments were closed. Gursewak Singh, a resident of BRS Nagar, who was headed to the excise taxation department, said, “First the cops asked me to visit from the main door, which was a mile away, the cop sitting at the entrance told me that I could not visit since the department was closed due to a strike. I told him that I was to visit an official, but he refused to hear me out.” District court complex fortified On December 27, the passage and the main door of regional transport office (RTO), which led to the district court complex, were sealed. The door was primarily used to present persons facing trial under Sections 107 (which pertains to the powers vested with an executive magistrate who may order detaining a person, he thinks, could commit a breach of peace or disturb the public tranquillity), and 151 (prevention of commission of cognizable offences) of the Code of Criminal Procedure (CrPC).A notice was pasted on the wall redirecting litigants to appear from the main door of the police commissioner’s office. The door leading from the district excise and taxation department towards the district court complex was also sealed. It was primarily used by excise and taxation lawyers. People are only being allowed to enter the district complex from the main door of the deputy commissioner’s office where a door frame metal detector has been installed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-after-court-complex-alternative-routes-sealed-to-police-commissioner-office-101640806827964.html
30-12-2021||Chandigarh||Mohali police, excise dept bust ethanol smuggling module, 2 nabbed||In a joint operation, the Punjab excise department and Mohali police on Wednesday busted an organised module involved in smuggling extra neutral alcohol (ENA) into the state and arrested two men.The accused have been identified as Ansar and Ikrammudin Khan, both hailing from Madhya Pradesh, and 25,000 litres of ENA was recovered from them.Naresh Dubey, joint excise commissioner, Punjab, said that on the intervening night of December 28 and 29, they intercepted a tanker carrying the ENA at Lalru, near Punjab-Haryana interstate border. The driver, Ansar, and his accomplice, Ikrammudin, produced some documents in support of the consignment. The authorities immediately contacted the authorities concerned to verify the documents and found that they were fake.The illegal consignment was meant to be supplied to a bottling plant in Chandigarh, whose liquor brands have been confiscated in heavy quantities in Punjab.Dubey said that this consignment could be used to produce 1.1 lakh bottles of illicit liquor. As per Ansar’s statement, the ENA had been loaded from Chhatisgarh.An FIR has been lodged under Sections 420 and 120B of Indian Penal Code at Lalru police station, in which the owners of a transportation company and Chandigarh-based distillery, whose names are yet to be verified, have also been named .Rajat Agarwal, excise commissioner, Punjab, reiterated that ahead of the upcoming assembly polls in Punjab, the department has stepped up vigil in all districts of the state. He added that under Operation Red Rose, between May 17, 2020 and December 11, 2021, 19,784 FIRs have been registered, in which 19,689 people have been arrested.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/mohali-police-excise-dept-bust-ethanol-smuggling-module-2-nabbed-101640806826555.html
30-12-2021||Chandigarh||Meerut-based doctor couple held in illegal adoption case||The Karnal police have arrested a Meerut-based doctor couple for their alleged involvement in the illegal adoption of the son of a migrant woman labourer.Accused Dr DP Shrivastav and his gynaecologist wife Dr Sashibala were allegedly evading arrest since they were booked by the police on June 15 under Sections 363, 368, 420, 467, 468, 471 and 34 of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and Sections 80 and 81 of the Juvenile Justice (Care and Protection of Children) Act, 2015 after an investigation by the women protection officer-cum-child marriage prohibition officer Rajni Gupta.Police had already arrested a Meerut-based couple who had adopted the boy illegally in September last year. Police had recovered the child from their Chandigarh-based relatives.As per complaint filed by the victim’s mother Jyoti at Karnal’s Kunjpura police station on February 2, last year, on September 18 the Meerut-based doctor couple had taken her four-day-old son on pretext of providing treatment.In her complaint Jyoti had alleged that a few months before birth of the child, she had come in contact with the doctor couple. Four days after birth of the baby at Karnal’s KCGMCH, Dr Shrivastav told her that the baby is facing respiratory problems and they will provide him better treatment at their hospital in Meerut, free of cost.She alleged that the doctor couple took her signatures on a blank stamp paper and took her baby along.Later during investigation, it was found that the baby was illegally adopted by one Vishal Shrivastav and his wife Neha. Vishal had appeared before Gupta and handed over documents, including an affidavit claiming that Jyoti had given her consent.But the allegations were denied by Jyoti as she said she did not know Vishal or his wife and the baby was taken by the doctors for treatment. She had requested police to retrieve her baby from the couple.Karnal superintendent of police (SP) Ganga Ram Punia said the doctor couple was arrested and sent to judicial custody by a local court. Police said after investigation, the baby was recovered and handed over to Jyoti.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/meerutbased-doctor-couple-held-in-illegal-adoption-case-101640806767999.html
30-12-2021||Chandigarh||Upgrading STPs won’t help till Ludhiana MC deals with dairy waste: Buddha Nullah STF||Slamming the civic body for failing to reach a consensus regarding the dairy complexes on Haibowal Road and Tajpur Road, members of the special task force formed to oversee the cleaning of the Buddha Nullah said upgrading sewage treatment plants will be of no use until dairy waste continues to be dumped into the waterbody. The team was visiting the under-construction STPs in Jamalpur to review the progress of the ₹650 crore project to clean the seasonal rivulet, which flows through Ludhiana, the most populous district of the state. Task force member Colonel JS Gill (retd) said, “The deadline to clean the nullah is December 2022. Even if authorities spend hundreds of crores to upgrade the STPs, all of it will go to waste unless the municipal corporation finds a way to stop dairy waste from being dumped into the Buddha Nullah. The MC has been dithering over taking a decision regarding the dairy units for over a year. Either the dairy units should be shifted or effluent treatment plants or biogas plants should be established to deal with dairy waste.” “The progress of other aspects of the project, including upgrading and setting up new STPs is on track,” said Gill.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/upgrading-stps-won-t-help-till-ludhiana-mc-deals-with-dairy-waste-buddha-nullah-stf-101640806766578.html
30-12-2021||Chandigarh||Truck unions to be revived if voted to power: Sukhbir||AMRITSAR/Gurdaspur: Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) president Sukhbir Singh Badal on Tuesday said that truck unions will revived and transporters’ welfare board will be constituted with a corpus of ₹25 crore if the SAD-BSP combine comes to power in Punjab.He said if voted to power, the SAD-BSP government will announce a liberal policy to replace auto-rickshaws with e-rickshaws.Addressing a press conference along with SAD transport wing president Paramjit Singh in Amritsar, Sukhbir said the welfare board will include the representatives of auto-rickshaws, tempo travellers, four-wheelers, bus and truck unions. He accused the Congress government of having “struck” at the very livelihood of small truckers by abolishing truck unions.We will revive truck unions to ensure that small truckers get their due. We will also ensure there is no outside interference, including political, in the truck unions, by laying down guidelines that only a member of the union can become its president.”Simultaneously, coordination committees would be established with members from truck unions, trade representatives as well as the government to ensure the interests of truckers as well as the industry are safeguarded, he said, adding that the transporters welfare board would ensure extension of monetary help to members in case of emergency such as the Covid pandemic.Among other measures aimed at ensuring the welfare of truckers, Sukhbir said local truck union would get precedence in the tendering process. “We will also end harassment being done to truckers by issuing annual stickers, which will ensure that no truck is stopped on the road for checking of papers, he said. He also promised a onetime settlement scheme to help truckers settle their tax arrears. He said portable weighing scales would be introduced to check the menace of overloading on highways.Probe Tript Bajwa’s ‘links’ with SFJ: Sukhbir Talking to newsmen in Gurdaspur after addressing a rally in favour of Qadian constituency party candidate Guriqbal Singh Mahal, the SAD chief demanded probe into alleged links between Congress minister Tript Rajinder Singh Bajwa and pro-Khalistan outfit Sikhs for Justice (SFJ), saying the minister was related to the Pannu family, which headed the SFJ.Sukhbir said it was strange that even after the arrest of Jaswinder Singh Multani, a member of the SFJ, in Germany in connection with the Ludhiana bomb blast case, the Congress government had not started any internal probe of SFJ links with senior Congress leaders, including Tript Bajwa.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/truck-unions-to-be-revived-if-voted-to-power-sukhbir-101640806709475.html
30-12-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana | Public suffers as govt employees strike||High drama was seen outside the deputy commissioner office at the Mini Secretariat after employees of different government departments went on a day-long strike on Wednesday.The strike came as a surprise to residents who were visiting the department. Scores of people were stranded as the farmers protesting at Mini Secretariat blocked the entrance of employees and residents, demanding that the government waive their loans. Many people were seen arguing with the security staff deployed at the main entrance of deputy commissioner office, as the latter were not allowing the public to enter the premises.“If government employees have an issues,they should raise it before politicians and their senior officials rather than making the public suffer. We learnt of the employees’ strike only after reaching the office, which is tantamount to sheer harassment,” said Sarabjit Singh, a city resident.Many government employees on election duty were also denied entry, and were seen frantically calling their seniors.In the meantime, the protesting farmers also reached the DC office and started raising slogan against the officials. They alleged that the door was deliberately closed, and the security staff was told not to allow the farmers to enter.“While the staff has gone on strike, touts and some of the employees were still working in the department. Visit the weapon branch and transport department and one will find touts working in connivance with employees,” said farmer union leader Saudagar Singh Ghudani.On whether the strike will continue, DC Office Employees Union president Vicky Kumar Juneja said, “Further course of action will decided after a state body meeting of the Sanjha Mulajam Morcha, Punjab, at the Bachat Bhawan on December 30.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-public-suffers-as-govt-employees-strike-101640806649430.html
30-12-2021||Chandigarh||Khattar hikes honorarium of anganwadi workers||Announcing financial incentives to the anganwadi workers and assuring that they will not be removed from their centres, Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar on Wednesday said a policy will be framed for promotion of anganwadi workers to the post of supervisor through written examination.The chief minister announced to give ₹1 lakh to anganwadi workers and ₹50,000 to helpers retiring this month, while the monthly honorarium will be increased to ₹400 per month from September 2020 and ₹450 from September 2021.The arrears of 2019-20 and 2020-21 along with incentive of ₹1,000 each will be given to all anganwadi workers for working as frontline workers during the Covid-19 pandemic, Khattar said during a meeting with the officebearers of the anganwadi workers’ union, an official spokesperson said.Khattar said no anganwadi worker and helper will be removed from their centres. The anganwadi workers will be covered under Ayushman Bharat scheme in future and under the Pradhan Mantri Suraksha Bima Yojana, ₹2 lakh will be provided in case of accident and ₹12 per month premium will be paid by the state government.Khattar also announced ₹2 lakh each grant to two anganwadi workers who had died in recent road accidents.He said in future, all the anganwadi workers will be given mobile phone for official work.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/khattar-hikes-honorarium-of-anganwadi-workers-101640806648202.html
30-12-2021||Chandigarh||Panipat MLA’s car set ablaze in Chandigarh||Miscreants set ablaze a car belonging to Panipat MLA Pramod Kumar Vij in the high-security Haryana MLAs’ hostel in Chandigarh on the intervening night of Tuesday and Wednesday. Police said a complaint in this regard was lodged by Constable Amit Deswal of 4th Battalion, Haryana, who was posted on guard duty at MLA Hostel, Sector-3.Deswal said about 11:25 pm, around four persons came in a white-coloured car. One of the persons got out and broke the mirror of the BJP MLA’s Fortuner car, bearing registration number HR-10-AA-0003. The car’s alarms went off, following which the accused ran towards his vehicle and sped away. Later around 12.30 am, the accused returned and a person wearing red-coloured clothes set the same Fortuner afire. Constable Deswal again tried to chase them but they sped away. A case under Section 353 (assault), 425 and 426 (mischief) of the Indian Penal Code was registered at the Sector 3 police station. Police are trying to track the accused, on the basis of the registration number of the vehicle in which the accused came. The damaged vehicle was later taken to the police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/panipat-mla-s-car-set-ablaze-in-chandigarh-101640806646820.html
30-12-2021||Chandigarh||Drugs case: HC to take up Majithia’s bail plea today||Chandigarh: Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) leader Bikram Singh Majithia’s plea seeking anticipatory bail in a drugs case will be taken up on Thursday by the Punjab and Haryana high court. The matter is listed for hearing before the vacation bench of justice Lisa Gill. On December 24, a Mohali court had dismissed his plea observing that though his claims are of political vendetta, he himself was a powerful person in the state politics till the year 2017 during SAD regime. Majithia was booked by Punjab Police under various sections of Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act on December 20. The plea alleges “witch-hunting” of the political opponents by ruling Congress government. Police officers have been forced and coerced to falsely implicate him or face transfers and punitive action, it claims.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/drugs-case-hc-to-take-up-majithia-s-bail-plea-today-101640806586576.html
30-12-2021||Chandigarh||Mohali resident crushed under Haryana roadways bus||A Mohali resident was crushed to death after falling off a Haryana roadways bus on the intervening night of Monday and Tuesday.The deceased has been identified as Raju Kumar of Kambali village in Sector-65 of Mohali.His brother-in-law, Prince Kumar, who is the complainant in the case, said the incident took place when the victim had come to see off his wife and children.“I, along with my sister and her children, was heading to our native village in Bihar. We boarded a bus from Tribune Chowk to take us to Ambala Cantt, from where we had to catch a train,” he said.“My brother-in-law had boarded the bus. As the bus started moving, he requested the driver to stop so he could get off. The driver assured him that he would stop at the next traffic lights. When the bus reached the poultry farm lightpoint, the bus driver told Raju to get down. As Raju opened the door to get down, the bus driver sped up, and as a result Raju lost his balance and fell on the ground. His head was crushed under the rear tyre of the bus,” said the complainant.The victim was taken to Government Multi Specialty Hospital, Sector 16, where he was declared dead. A case under Sections 279 (rash driving) and 304A (death by negligence) of the Indian Penal Code was registered at Sector 31 police station. The bus driver, Jaiparkash, who hails from Rohtak, was arrested and later granted bail.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/mohali-resident-crushed-under-haryana-roadways-bus-101640806467750.html
30-12-2021||Chandigarh||In 11 months, 19,036kg narcotics seized in Haryana: DGP Agrawal||Haryana director general of police (DGP) PK Agrawal on Wednesday said police have registered 2,361 cases under the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act and seized 19 tonne contraband in last 11 months across state.The DGP said extensive crackdown on those involved in peddling of drugs resulted in recovery of 19,036kg narcotics including heroine, charas, sulpha, smack, opium, poppy husk, ganja during the first 11 months of 2021.The DGP said 271kg opium, over 140kg charas/sulpha, 6,931kg poppy husk, 8kg smack, 11,666kg ganja, and 17kg heroin was confiscated from across state between January to November.“We adopted a multi-pronged approach which resulted in seizure of such a large quantity of narcotics. Our field units including the state narcotics control bureau and special task force have dismantled the potential supply of almost all types of narcotics in Haryana from other states. The crackdown was made in line with the government’s commitment to make Haryana a drug-free state,” DGP said.The highest of 397 cases under the NDPS Act were registered in Sirsa, followed by 204 in Gurugram, 186 in Fatehabad, 173 in Karnal, 144 in Rohtak, 130 in Hisar, and 113 in Kurukshetra.The DGP said while cracking down on drug peddlers, police are making efforts to attach moveable and immoveable properties of those arrested in cases registered under the NDPS Act as an effective deterrent to the menace.The DGP said police will speed up operations against drug traffickers and cartels to save people, especially the youth, from drug menace.“In addition, special campaigns are being organised to make youth aware of the ill effects of narcotics and their overall impact on the society,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/in-11-months-19-036kg-narcotics-seized-in-haryana-dgp-agrawal-101640806466605.html
30-12-2021||Chandigarh||Channi in driver’s seat, adds 58 new buses into state fleet||Chandigarh: Chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi on Wednesday inducted 58 new buses as part of total 842 modern vehicles being added into the state fleet and himself drove a Punbus for a short distance. Inducting the first tranche of 30 buses for PRTC and 28 buses for Punbus, the CM Channi congratulated the people of the state, especially women and students, who can now enjoy their free travel in the new buses while announcing free bus pass facility for the students of both government and private colleges and universities. The CM said 105 bus terminals are being constructed and renovated at a cost of ₹400 crore. He said besides issuing 1,406 new bus permits, 425 new bus routes would be added in the state. Lauding transport minister Amrinder Singh Raja Warring for his efforts in last three months, Channi said the period witnessed the transport department’s revival as a result of stringent action against erring bus operators and tax evaders. Crackdown on those running the state transport as a mafia has resulted in significant enhancement of department revenue, said the CM. He added that no one would be allowed to fleece commuters and a transparent, efficient and effective transport mechanism has already been put in place by his government. Of the 28 Punbus buses dispatched, Muktsar depot will get 13, Rupnagar 12 and Pathankot three. Similarly, of the 30 PRTC buses, Bathinda and Patiala depots will get 10 each, while both Faridkot and Barnala 5 each.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/channi-in-driver-s-seat-adds-58-new-buses-into-state-fleet-101640806407877.html
30-12-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana | MLA Dawar inaugurates open gym in his ward||Ludhiana Central MLA Surinder Kumar Dawar inaugurated another open gym in his ward number 53.on Wednesday.Councillor Pinky Bansal and Gurmukh Mitthu were present on the occasion. Residents of the ward, especially the senior citizens, expressed gratitude for the installation of the gym in the vicinity of their homes. Several residents worked out using the new machines after the inauguration.A resident of the ward said, “This gym has good quality, light exercise machines that can be used by the senior citizens too. We are grateful to the MLA for the said initiative.” MLA Dawar said he was working towards installing several open gyms installed in Ludhiana Central constituency, so that everyone in the constituency remains healthy. Senior citizens should use these facilities to lead an active lifestyle.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-mla-dawar-inaugurates-open-gym-in-his-ward-101640806406467.html
30-12-2021||Chandigarh||PAU, GADVASU pay tributes to farmers killed during year-long agitation||The Punjab Agricultural University (PAU) and Guru Angad Dev Veterinary and Animal Sciences University (GADVASU) units of Atam Pargas Social Welfare Council paid tribute to the martyrs of the farmers’ agitation on Wednesday. RK Dhaliwal, director students’ welfare, PAU welcomed the guests, farmers and their families. The universities sensitised the academia to ensure self- sustenance of the martyrs’ families.Vice-chancellor of GADVASU Inderjeet Singh said, “The farmers’ protest was non-violent and it is important to lend support to their families with faith that the entire society stands by them. Both PAU and GADVASU are committed to the welfare of the farming community”Former vice-chancellor of PAU Manjit Singh Kang said the farmers’ protest brought the farmers of Punjab and Haryana together under one roof.Nachhatar Singh Malhi, director of the council and former vice-chancellor of Guru Kashi University, Talwandi Sabo, Bathinda, said the farmers’ protest was victory of democracy and the long battle won by the farmers in this corporate world speaks for itself.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/pau-gadvasu-pay-tributes-to-farmers-killed-during-year-long-agitation-101640806286490.html
30-12-2021||Chandigarh||Sidhu’s remarks against police officers shameful, says Chadha||Chandigarh :Aam Aadmi Party’s Punjab affairs co-in-charge Raghav Chadha on Wednesday termed Punjab Congress president Navjot Singh Sidhu’s remarks against the Punjab Police officers as “unfortunate and shameful”. Condemning the Congress leader’s comments at a press conference in Chandigarh, Chadha raised the issue of long hours and minimal allowances of the police personnel in the state. “The Channi government, especially Punjab Congress president Navjot Singh Sidhu, is leaving no stone unturned in defaming and insulting the Punjab Police, he said, calling the state chief’s statement “irresponsible and childish,” he said. At a rally in Sultanpur Lodhi recently, Sidhu, while pointing towards sitting MLA Navtej Singh Cheema, said that he can “make a thanedar (policeman) wet his pants”. The AAP leader said that Sidhu was anxious, and in his fury he was humiliating the officers of Punjab Police by making such lousy statements. “The political people of Punjab treat the Punjab Police personnel as an ornamental instrument,” he claimed, reminding the state Congress president that those were the same officers who were on duty day and night for his safety. “If he thinks so low of the officers of Punjab Police, then he should return the security,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/sidhus-remarks-against-police-officers-shameful-says-chadha-101640806226532.html
30-12-2021||Chandigarh||Farmers gherao DC residence in Sangrur, office in Barnala||SANGRUR: Farmers under the banner of BKU (Ekta-Ugrahan) laid siege to gates of district administrative complexes in Sangrur and Barnala districts for the implementation of their demands accepted by the state government on Wednesday. The protesters also gheraoed the residence of Sangrur deputy commissioner Ramvir for an indefinite period and alleged that the district administration fixed a meeting with them but cancelled it later.Jagtar Singh Kalajhar, state committee member of the BKU Ugrahan, said: “The union members gheraoed offices of deputy commissioners in other districts but the residence of Sangrur DC was gheraoed because he has not held any meeting with us for the past 10 days. The administration neither tried to address concerns which he could have resolved nor the DC informed us about progress of the government’s proposals,” said Kalajhar.The Ugrahan group is holding protests for ₹17,000 per acre compensation to farmers for pink bollworm attack, assurance of the hiked price of ₹360 per quintal for sugarcane from sugar mills, ₹3 lakh compensation, a government job and debt waiver for family members of farmers and farm labourers who committed suicide.Sangrur DC Ramvir said: “The lists have been prepared and compensation will be deposited in the accounts of farmers for crop damage soon.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/farmers-gherao-dc-residence-in-sangrur-office-in-barnala-101640806046424.html
30-12-2021||Chandigarh||Haryana cabinet portfolio allocation: Urban local bodies for Gupta, panchayats for Babli||The newly-inducted cabinet ministers in Haryana, Kamal Gupta of the BJP and Devender Singh Babli of the JJP were allocated portfolios on Wednesday.Gupta was given charge of urban local bodies and housing for all departments, while Babli got development and panchayat and archaeology and museums, as per a notification issued by the state government.Minister of state Anoop Dhanak, who is also from the JJP, was given independent charge of labour and employment portfolio. He was earlier attached with the deputy chief minister for labour and employment department.The urban local bodies portfolio was earlier with state home and health minister Anil Vij, and housing for all by chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar.The portfolio of development and panchayats was earlier held by deputy chief minister Dushyant Chautala and the archaeology and museums department was held by Babli’s party colleague Anoop Dhanak.Dushyant has shed two portfolios – development and panchayat, and labour and employment – for his party colleagues in the state cabinet.The deputy CM has also tried to mollify Dhanak, a second-time MLA relegated to the rank of minister of state (MoS), by taking him in loop for the departments of industries and commerce, revenue and disaster management and food, civil supplies and consumer affairs as MoS attached with the deputy CM besides getting him the independent charge of MoS, labour and employment.In comparison, Dushyant has facilitated cabinet rank for first time JJP MLA Devender Singh Babli, a prominent dissenting voice.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/haryana-cabinet-portfolio-allocation-urban-local-bodies-for-gupta-panchayats-for-babli-101640805986320.html
30-12-2021||Chandigarh||Four armed robbers loot ₹3.5 lakh from bank in Batala village||BATALA:Four unidentified armed robbers decamped after looting ₹3.5 lakh from Punjab & Sind Bank branch in Bahadur Hussain village on Wednesday.The incident took place at 1.55pm when the bank employees were dealing with the customers. Two of the robbers entered the bank pretending as the customers while the two others had held the bank’s security guard captive at the gate, said police.Before leaving the spot, the robbers also snatched the guard’s .12 bore rifle and its 12 rounds. The entire incident was also recorded in the closed-circuit television (CCTV) cameras installed at the bank, but the police are yet to ascertain the identity of the accused, who had their faces covered.“I was at the gate when two young men entered the bank pretended to be customers. A few seconds later, two more men came and held me from behind. When I confronted them, they snatched my rifle and threatened to kill me. All the accused had pistols in their hands. The two robbers, who entered the bank, pointed pistols at the cashier’s and looted the money,” guard Balwinder Singh said.Batala senior superintendent of police (SSP) Mukhwinder Singh Bhullar said the accused came in a Hyundai i20 car and after committing the robbery, they left towards Sekhwan village. “We have got some vital clues and our teams are working to nab the accused,” he added.A senior police official said one of the accused was caught in the CCTV camera and he will be identified by cyber experts.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/four-armed-robbers-loot-3-5-lakh-from-bank-in-batala-village-101640805926520.html
30-12-2021||Chandigarh||LDCA Greens decimate Kings at U-16 cricket tournament||Ludhiana: The LDCA Greens on Wednesday clinched a thumping 193-run win over LDCA Kings in the sixth league match of the ongoing U-16 Junior Cricket Tournament at the GRD Academy grounds.Continuing the rich vein of form, the side’s batting lineup put up a competitive total of 234 runs in 35 overs, losing only four wickets.Armaan Walia was the top performer as he scored an impressive 117 runs. He was ably supported by Karanveer, who contributed 48 runs for the Greens. Harshit from Kings’ side took two wickets, while giving away 29 runs.Looking to chase down the target, the Kings’ side faced a complete collapse as they could only muster 41 runs in 24.2 overs. Nikhil Verma led the Greens’ strong bowling lineup, taking four wickets and conceding a meagre 15 runs.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ldca-greens-decimate-kings-at-u-16-cricket-tournament-101640805866412.html
30-12-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana MC razes illegal commercial building in Sarabha Nagar||Ludhiana The Municipal Corporation (MC) on Wednesday razed an illegal commercial building, which was still under construction, in the posh residential area of Sarabha Nagar Block B.The MC officials revealed that the owner -- a relative of a ruling party Member of the Legislative Assembly (MLA) from the district -- had an approval to construct a residential building, but they decided to add a 200 sq yards commercial hall during construction.Assistant town planner (ATP) MS Bedi said the action was taken after multiple complaints were submitted by residents of the neighbourhood against the said commercial construction in a residential area.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-mc-razes-illegal-commercial-building-in-sarabha-nagar-101640805806428.html
30-12-2021||Chandigarh||Centre accords Z-category security cover to Rana Sodhi||New Delhi: Punjab politician Rana Gurmit Singh Sodhi, who joined the BJP a few days ago, has been accorded Z category VIP security cover by the Union government, official sources said on Wednesday.Sodhi, an MLA for the last four terms and who is considered close to former Punjab chief minister Amarinder Singh, announced his resignation from the Congress on Twitter and had posted the letter sent to party president Sonia Gandhi.An MLA from Guru Har Sahai in Ferozepur district, he was the sports minister in the Amarinder government.He joined the BJP on December 21.Sources said Sodhi has been accorded Z category security on the recommendation of the Union home ministry and he will have an armed cover of the CRPF commandos every time he travels in Punjab and in Delhi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/centre-accords-z-category-security-cover-to-rana-sodhi-101640805687681.html
30-12-2021||Other||Punjab reports first Omicron case, man back from Spain tests positive||Jalandhar/Chandigarh/Patiala: Punjab reported its first Omicron case with a 36-year-old SBS Nagar man, who returned from Spain earlier this month, testing positive for the new variant of coronavirus, confirmed SBS Nagar deputy commissioner Vishesh Sarangal. The man, who arrived at Chak Ramu in Mukandpur block of the district on December 4, visited his relatives, a health official said. The man tested negative for coronavirus upon his arrival. However, he tested positive on December 12, he said.He was then admitted to a hospital and his samples were sent for genome sequencing at a facility set up at the Government Medical College, Patiala, the official added.“The genome sequencing report declaring him positive for the Omicron variant came on December 28,” said district epidemiologist Dr Jagdeep.The man was tested again on December 25 and his report came negative, following which he was discharged from the hospital, the officer said.He said: “After the 36-year-old man tested positive, we started the contact tracing process as per the protocol and two family members of the infected person, aged 70 and 35, also tested positive. All three were admitted to a separate ward in the hospital and were discharged after they recovered from the infection.” The DC said the source patient has tested negative twice and his contacts too tested negative before they got discharged.Spurt in Covid cases in Punjab, reports 100 infections in a dayPunjab on Wednesday saw a massive jump in Covid-19 cases as the state recorded 100 new infections up 51 a day before, according to a medical bulletin. This is the highest single-day rise in infections in the state in past over four months.The state’s positivity rate for the day remained 0.62%, the bulletin said. With fresh cases, state’s infections tally reached 6,04,428. The number of active cases in the state also rose to 449 from 390 on Tuesday. Among fresh cases, maximum 26 were reported in Pathankot, followed by 18 in Patiala, the bulletin said. With 53 persons recovering from the infection, the number of cured persons has reached 5,87,299 it said. Till now, 16,642 persons have lost their lives due to the virus. Ramp up testing, vaccination: Soni Punjab deputy chief minister OP Soni on Wednesday directed the health department to ramp up testing and vaccination in the State considering the possibility of third wave. Presiding over a meeting of the health department, Soni took stock of the Covid situation in the state. Health department officials apprised the minister that the positive result rate of testing related to Covid cases stands at 0.3%, which has increased a bit during the past few days. Till now, the state has seen only a single case of Omicron, which was asymptomatic and was found negative after 13 days. Officials said 84% people have been administered the first dose while the percentage of those having got the second jab stands at 44%. Central team visits Patiala A four-member central team on Wednesday visited Patiala to take stock of preparations to tackle the Covid situation and spurt in Omicron cases in the country.District epidemiologist Dr Sumeet Singh said the central teams are touring 10 states to take stock of Covid situation. Dr Singh said the team held meetings with health and civil officials to review the situation. The team members also visited isolation centres at government medical college and hospital, Mata Kaushlya Hospital, and Viral Research and Diagnostic (VRD) laboratory at medical college.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/punjab-reports-first-omicron-case-man-back-from-spain-tests-positive-101640805569133.html
30-12-2021||Lucknow||Lucknow lad balances football on knee, sets a world record||Lucknow boy, Hasan Askari brought glory to the city by entering the Guinness Book of World Records. Hasan balanced the football on his knee for 6 minutes 16.98 seconds to set the record.“I dedicated 2 years of my life to achieve this feat. I was browsing the internet one day and found a world record which I wanted to break. After days and months of consistent practice, I filled the application, got approval and registered in the Guinness Book of World Records,” Hasan said.He attempted this record on April 13 and got certificates from Guinness Book last month. Presently, he is pursuing B Com from Integral University.“I want to say that people often overlook the fact that sportspersons suffer lot of injuries. A lot of effort is put in to achieve something. People don’t notice the effort and sacrifices of a player,” said Hasan.“Seeing my interest in sports, my teachers always encouraged me. It is because of their support and guidance that I have been able to set a world record,” he said.Hasan Askari completed his schooling from CMS. He has been a student of CMS Rajajipuram Campus I till 2020 when he passed class 12. His dream is to become a football coach one day.“It is a feat which required lot of patience, concentration and strong willpower,” said CMS founder, Jagdish Gandhi. President and MD, Geeta Gandhi Kingdon and principal of CMS Rajajipuram Campus I, Nisha Pandey congratulated Hasan for this extraordinary feat and wished him success in his future endeavours.The duo said he has always been extraordinary in sports and other extra-curricular activities. The entire CMS family was proud of his achievement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/lucknow-lad-balances-football-on-knee-sets-a-world-record-101640805567824.html
30-12-2021||Other||Channi launches slew of projects in Ghanaur; MLA was first in Patiala to rise against Capt||Ghanaur/Samana Punjab chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi on Wednesday announced subdivisional status for Ghanaur, to be formally approved in the next Cabinet meeting on January 1, besides launching ₹269-crore projects during a ‘Vikas Rally’ in favour of MLA Madan Lal Jalalpur.Jalalpur was the first MLA in Patiala who had openly revolted against former CM Captain Amarinder Singh, with the Capt not accepting his request for the subdivision status and even accusing him of being hand-in-glove with the BJP and the Akalis. Of ₹132-crore development projects that Channi launched, ₹95 crore are for widening and the maintenance of roads; another ₹2.8 crore are for sprucing up infrastructure. He also announced ₹28 crore for other development works.In his speech, Channi claimed that till Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) president Sukhbir Singh Badal and Bikram Singh Majithia remained with that party, there was no hope for revival. “Majithia is now on the run from law after registration of FIR against him in a drugs case,” touting it as his government’s achievement. Taking on the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) supremo Arvind Kejriwal for his antics, Channi said Kejriwal was indulging in theatrics with the sole aim of capturing power in Punjab but is unable to keep his flock together as 10 of his MLAs and 3 MPs have already bid goodbye to him. Expressing gratitude to the CM for bestowing special attention on the Ghanaur constituency, Jalalpur hailed him as the people’s CM. Later in the day, addressing another rally at Samana, Channi said that on demand from local MLA Rajinder Singh, the state government will takeover Public College, Samana, and the upgrade of the local civil hospital from 50-100 beds, with the announcement to be approved in the Cabinet meeting.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/channi-launches-slew-of-projects-in-ghanaur-mla-was-first-in-patiala-to-rise-against-capt-101640805566384.html
30-12-2021||Noida||Greater Noida: Man cheats a person by promising job in Indian Railways, arrested||The Gautam Budh Nagar police arrested a 32-year-old man on Wednesday afternoon from Greater Noida for allegedly duping a person on the pretext of getting him a job in the Indian Railways. The suspect had already taken ₹1 lakh as advance from the person and finalised the whole deal for ₹7 lakh, said police. According to police, the suspect has been identified as Kartikeya Sharma, a native of Bulandshahr district, currently living in Beta sector of Greater Noida. Police have also recovered a car, which has a blue beacon and bore stickers of ‘Government of India’. According to the complaint lodged by the victim on Wednesday morning, he recently got in touch with Sharma, who assured to get him a job in the railways. “The two finalised a deal for ₹7 lakh, of which Sharma asked for ₹1 lakh as advance payment,” said Anil Kumar, station house officer (SHO) of Beta 2 police station.“Sharma took all the educational documents from the victim and started asking for ₹40,000 more as advance payment. The victim gave his documents but got suspicious when Sharma asked for more money and approached police,” said Kumar. “We have seized a Hyundai Creta, which had ‘Government of India’ stickers pasted on the front and rear of the car. We have recovered some documents, school and college passing certificates, along with some passport size photos, of the victim,” said the SHO.  Police said that Sharma was unemployed and was looking to earn quick money. “We are investigating if he has been involved in similar cases in the past or not. So far, during investigation, he revealed that this was the first time he duped someone. He was produced before the court and sent to judicial custody,” said Kumar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/greater-noida-man-cheats-a-person-by-promising-job-in-indian-railways-arrested-101640805388793.html
30-12-2021||Chandigarh||Railway traffic resumes in Punjab as farmers end protest||Ludhiana The railway traffic across the state resumed on Wednesday, a day after the Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Committee (KMSC), an umbrella organisation for smaller farmers’ groups, called off its “rail roko” protest. The farmers had been staging sit-ins at railway tracks in Amritsar, Jalandhar, Tanda, Tarn Taran and Ferozepur since December 20, demanding a loan-waiver and relief from paying outstanding electricity bills and allotment of plots by the state government. With the protests affecting train schedules, passengers had to face the brunt of the situation.“Due to the blockage of rail traffic mainly at Jalandhar-Amritsar, Ludhiana-Ferozepur and Jalandhar-Jammu rail lines, even the prominent trains including New Delhi-Amritsar Shatabdi were not able to go beyond Jalandhar. Either those were short terminated or else they were cancelled,” an official at the Ludhiana Railway station said.Speaking about the traffic on the day, officials said that while most of the trains resumed running on schedule on Wednesday, the footfalls were relatively low.“The trains are expected to run with full capacity from Thursday as many passengers must be unaware of resumption of railway traffic on Wednesday”, stated an official at Ludhiana.Notably, the Northern Railways had issued notifications requesting passengers to check the status of the trains before heading to the station for the complete eight-day duration of the protest.Maintenance operations back on trackWith the farmers’ protest ending, operations at the maintenance depots located at Amritsar, Ferozepur and Katra also resumed.The sit-ins had prevented trains from reaching their designated maintenance depots, putting the onus staff of the Delhi maintenance depot to carry out operations for the eighth day.“We were not able to clean and wash the trains at these centres due to blockade by the protesters. The elite trains including Shatabdi or Vande Bharat Express couldn’t be run without proper cleaning due to the railway’s reputation. Since the pressure majorly shifted to Delhi, we had to cancel the trains,” an officer added.
30-12-2021||Mumbai||Governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari pained by threatening tenor of CM’s letter||Mumbai: The tussle between the Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government and Governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari continued as he told chief minister Uddhav Thackeray in a letter that was circulated on social media on Wednesday that he was “pained” by the “threatening tenor” of the CM’s letter pertaining to the election to the Speaker’s post. Thackeray had written a letter to the Governor on Monday informing him of the cabinet’s decision to conduct the assembly speaker’s election on December 28 by open vote instead of a secret ballot. This was the third letter addressed to Raj Bhavan on the matter; a letter recommending election to the Constitutional post was sent to the Governor on December 24, and a delegation of senior MVA leaders approached Koshyari with another letter from the CM, requesting his assent to hold the election, on December 26. However, the Governor did not give his approval to hold the election and objected to an amendment in the rules for the election, made on December 23, which provided for open voting instead of a secret ballot. Terming the amendment “unconstitutional” and “illegal”, Koshyari’s letter which circulated on Wednesday with its date cropped, said that he cannot be pressured to consent to the process as it needed to be legally examined. The position fell vacant after senior Congress leader Nana Patole resigned to take up a party post (state party president) on February 4. Since then, deputy Speaker Narhari Zirwal is holding charge of acting Speaker in the lower House. “You mentioned that the said rules have been framed under Article 208 of the Constitution. It would be pertinent to mention that the same Article clearly elucidates that ‘A House of the Legislature of a State may make rules for regulating, subject to the provisions of the Constitution, its procedure and the conduct of its business…’ I am personally pained and dismayed to see the intemperate tone and threatening tenor of your letter which has belittled and denigrated the highest Constitutional Office of the Governor,” Koshyari’s letter stated. “Consent for holding of this election under the amended rules which prima facie appear to be unconstitutional and illegal cannot be given at this stage. It is also noteworthy to mention that you have taken nearly eleven months to initiate the process of election of speaker and the Maharashtra Assembly Rules 6 and 7 have been amended drastically. Thus, the impact of these far-reaching amendments needs to be examined legally,” the letter added. “I have never questioned the prerogative of the House in the matter of its procedure/proceedings; however, I cannot be pressurized to give consent to a process which prima facie appears to be unconstitutional and illegal as enshrined in the Article 208 of the Constitution,” Koshyari wrote. “The Governor is expected to take decisions on the advice of the state government. We have been taking utmost care so that the position of the governor is not disrespected. Yesterday, the matter would have gone to extreme level but the MVA government chose to exercise restraint and it was decided that the Speaker election will be held with Governor’s permission,” Shiv Sena leader Subhash Desai said. Sena MP Sanjay Raut blamed the Bharatiya Janata Party-led Central government and said that Koshyari was “under pressure”. “Koshyari is probably unhappy because he is under pressure from the central government. The union home ministry is pressuring him not to nominate 12 persons recommended by the MVA government as members of the legislative council,” Raut said. Koshyari is still to clear the 12 names recommended by the state cabinet last year for appointment to the legislative council. Out of the 78 members of the upper house, 12 are appointed every six years by the Governor on the recommendation of the state government. “The Governor has not said anything about powers of the legislature but sending him a letter in a threatening tone and giving an ultimatum to the Governor is shameful and has brought disgrace to the state. The unhappiness expressed by the Governor was obvious. The chief minister needs to take a stand as the head of the state and not as head of a party. He also needs to show some restraint,” state BJP leader Pravin Darekar said. Congress, one of the three ruling parties in the state coalition demanded that Koshyari be recalled by the Central government. Congress state working president Arif Naseem Khan said, “Governor Koshyari is behaving like leader of a political party while working at a Constitutional position. He has been creating obstacles for the state government. This time he did not allow holding of the Speaker’s election. This is despite the state government following all the rules and procedures. He should be recalled by the central government,” Khan said in a release issued on Wednesday. “Under Article 178 of the Constitution, the Speaker is chosen by the Assembly, which means it is an internal procedure of the House and the Governor has nothing to do with it. Similarly, Article 208 of the Constitution also states that the internal matter of the legislature is decided by the House, however, it must be in conformity with the Constitution, which has been followed in this case. It again means that it is the prerogative of the state Assembly whether the election is conducted by a secret ballot system or voice vote etc,” Ulhas Bapat, a constitutional expert said. “In contrast, going by Article 163 of the Constitution, it is binding on the Governor to accept the whatever advice is given by the council of ministers with chief minister as its head, except in matters related to his discretionary powers and in this case he has no discretion given by the Constitution, thus the Governor has to accept the advice,” he added. The MVA government and governor have been engaged in a series of spats over various issues. In February, the state government denied Koshyari permission to use the state’s airplane to travel to Dehradun. Last October, Koshyari and the CM wrote letters to each other over the reopening of places of worship. The Governor mocked the CM as “secular” while Thackeray reminded him of the Constitution and the oath he had taken. In September 2021, Governor wrote to CM following the Saki Naka rape incident, asking him to hold a two-day special session over security for women in the state. In response, Thackeray wrote back to Koshyari, saying that since violence against women was a national issue, the latter should request Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Union home minister Amit Shah to call a four-day special session of the Parliament to discuss the same. On December 28, the state passed the Maharashtra Public Universities Act Amendment Bill to curtail the powers of the Governor in appointing vice chancellors of various universities. 
30-12-2021||Chandigarh||Gurkirat Singh inaugurates railway over bridge in Khanna||Ludhiana State cabinet minister for industries and commerce Gurkirat Singh on Wednesday inaugurated a railway overbridge at Focal Point, Khanna with an aim to improve the commuting experience.The project was inaugurated at the level crossing number C-164, Ambala-Ludhiana section at an estimated cost of ₹36.95 crore.“This project was much needed for the people of Khanna and I am glad that it has been initiated. Our chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi and PWD Minister Vijayinder Singla have been very supportive of the same,” Singh said during the inauguration.Also speaking at the occasion, another official said the new overbridge would help reduce the traffic congestion at Focal Point, which is a bottleneck in Khanna.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/gurkirat-singh-inaugurates-railway-over-bridge-in-khanna-101640805207705.html
30-12-2021||Noida||Agency for extension of Metro to Greater Noida West to be finalised soon||The Noida Metro Rail Corporation (NMRC) on Wednesday said it will soon finalise the company for the construction of the 14.5-km long Greater Noida West Metro project. The NMRC opened the financial bids of three agencies, who have evinced interest in the construction of the project , on Tuesday. The corporation will soon finalise one of the agency to start work on the ground, said officials. The NMRC received the financial bids from GR Infraprojects Limited, which placed the lowest bid of ₹592.99 crore; Ashoka Buildcon Limited, which placed a quotation of ₹646.97 crore for the construction of the project and Sam India Buildwell Limited--the agency that was disqualified on technical grounds. “We have opened the financial bids and the process to finalise the agency is still underway,” said Ritu Maheshwari, managing director of the NMRC and CEO of the Noida authority. However, the NMRC is not sure as to when work will begin on ground. “The Government of India is yet to approve the detailed project report of this project... work cannot start without the approval,” said Maheshwari.Earlier, the NMRC was supposed to start work at the site by December end. But since the approval from the ministry of housing and urban affairs is awaited, it may take some more time to start work on the ground. “The process of sanctioning approval for the project is underway at the central government level. The approval can come anytime and the work will start soon. But the date cannot be fixed as to when the work will begin. However, in many cases the approval from the Government of India for Metro projects came later and we already started the work at the site. But here, it is the state government and the Noida authority which will decide the date from when work will begin on the ground,”said an official from the Noida authority requesting anonymity.In May 2020, the NMRC started the survey for testing the soil, topography and geography for the 14.95-km long Metro Corridor, which is set to branch out from the existing 29.7km-long Aqua Line.The new Metro link will start from the existing Metro station in Noida’s Sector 51 and go towards Knowledge Park 5 in Greater Noida. The line will pass through Greater Noida West (earlier known as Noida Extension), which shelters newly constructed group housing complexes. On December 12, 2019, the Noida and Greater Noida authorities decided that they will pool in money for the project, which passes through areas falling in the jurisdiction of the two authorities.The works proposed in the project, which is pegged at ₹2,682 crore, will be carried out in two phases.According to the detailed project report (DPR) submitted in December 2016, the first phase of the project, which will be 9.15km long, will have five Metro stations—Sector 122, Sector 123, Greater Noida Sector 4, Ecotech and Greater Noida Sector 2.In the second phase (5.8km) , four Metro stations—Greater Noida Sector 3, Greater Noida Sector 10, Greater Noida Sector 12 and Knowledge Park V—will be developed. The first phase of the project is scheduled to be completed by 2022.
30-12-2021||Other||Tarn Taran Cong leaders revolt against sitting party MLA||Tarn Taran Senior Congress leaders of Tarn Taran constituency have raised a banner of revolt against their own party MLA, Dr Dharambir Agnihotri, accusing him of corruption. Former chairman of Tarn Taran market committee Gurminder Singh Rataul, zila parishad member Munish Kumar alias Monu Cheema, former member of Pradesh Congress committee (PCC) Vijaypal Chaudhary are among two dozen Congress leaders and workers who gathered in Tarn Taran and demanded the incumbent MLA’s ouster from the party“The MLA and his son Sandeep Agnihotri have looted the people of Tarn Taran, besides giving shelter to gangsters and the sand mafia. We don’t want the party to lose from Tarn Taran. Villagers are against him,” alleged Rataul, a close associate of former Union minister Manohar Singh Gill.Dr Agnihotri, a close associate of Captain Amarinder Singh, had won from the SAD bastion in 2017. He has already been facing difficulty with other Congress leaders staking claim for the party ticket. These are Punjab Mandi Board vice-chairman Tejpreet Singh Peter, Awan Kumar, alias Sonu Cheema, and Davinder Singh, alias Lali Dhala.Dr Agnihotri said, “These leaders are not happy, for the party didn’t give adequate honour to them. During the past two or three years, I have demanded a state-level post for Gurminder Singh Rataul from the chief minister office (CMO), but in vain. I hope for their support.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/tarn-taran-cong-leaders-revolt-against-sitting-party-mla-101640804968904.html
30-12-2021||Chandigarh||Seven fresh Covid cases in Ludhiana||Ludhiana The district reported seven fresh cases of Covid on Wednesday according to the health department report. No cases of the Omicron variant have, however, been detected so far.According to the reports, all seven cases of Covid are under the category of Influenza-like-Illness (ILI). The samples of all new patients have been sent to the lab for genome sequencing test.The number of active patients in the district has also increased to 50, of which, 48 are in isolation, while two are undergoing treatment at private hospitals.The new cases have brought the district’s overall tally to a total of 87,773. Of these, 85,606 patients have recovered, while 2,117 persons have so far died due to the disease.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/seven-fresh-covid-cases-in-ludhiana-101640804966502.html
30-12-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana | Major blaze breaks out at fabric export unit||A massive blaze broke out at a fabric export unit in Bholapur village on Chandigarh Road on Wednesday afternoon. Labourers working at the fabric unit, Jawandsons, had a close shave as operations were on when the fire broke out at around 3pm. Panic gripped the area as thick clouds of black smoke were seen rising from the building. The staff was immediately evacuated, and no injury or casualty was reported. Ten fire tenders were pressed into service from five fire stations across the city. Sub-fire officer (SFO) Maninder Singh said, “This was a major incident. The windows on the top floor were broken with a crane and water was poured from all directions to try and restrict the flames to a single floor. The fire tenders were refilled around 100 times.” Fabric had been stocked on the top floor of the building, where the fire broke out. The reason for the fire is yet to be ascertained. Shed collapses Thick smoke and the collapse of a shed on the fourth floor hampered firefighting operations. Fire safety arrangements were in place at the unit, and the factory workers joined the firefighters in the operation. Fire safety arrangements were also made at the unit and workers helped the fire fighters in dousing the flames. The operation finally came to an end around 10pm. Absence of hydraulic ladder hinders opsThe absence of a hydraulic ladder added to the firefighters difficulties in extinguishing the flames in the high-rise building. The firefighters had to climb trucks and fire tenders to douse the flames on the fourth floor. The proposal for purchasing a hydraulic ladder for the fire brigade had been hanging fire for over a decade. Earlier this month, the MC finally received the go-ahead to purchase a 50m ladder under the Smart City mission. 2nd incident in 3 days This is the second fire incident reported at a fabric unit in three days. On December 26, a massive fire had erupted on the top floor of Sungrace Fabrics Private Limited at Kaali Sadak, Ludhiana, at around 5.30am. While there were no injuries, fabric and machinery worth lakhs were gutted.The fire was doused after an intensive six-hour firefighting operation. Fourteen fire tenders were pressed into service for the firefighting operation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-major-blaze-breaks-out-at-fabric-export-unit-101640804727835.html
30-12-2021||Noida||Noida: Parents demand closure of schools amid rising Covid-19 cases||Citing the spread of the Covid-19 infection among school-going children in the light of the new Omicron variant, the All Noida School Parents Association (ANSPA) shot a letter to the district inspector of schools (DIOS), Gautam Budh Nagar, demanding closure of schools in the district.Following an order issued by the Uttar Pradesh government, Gautam Budh Nagar DIOS Dharamvir Singh issued directives to all schools in the district regarding the continuation of physical classes albeit with the stringent implementation of Covid safety protocols.Yatendra Kasana, president of ANSPA , said physical classes should be discontinued and schools should go back to holding online classes.“Even the fully vaccinated individuals are at risk of contracting the Omicron variant of Covid-19, so how can parents take chances with the lives of their children, who are not vaccinated at all? We have written to the DIOS demanding closure of all schools and discontinuing physical classes amid rising cases of Covid-19 in the district. Once the children are vaccinated, we can think of sending them to school,” said Kasana.When asked, the DIOS said that in the fresh guidelines issued by the state government, parents’ consent has been made mandatory for schools to call children for physical classes.“This provision was not mandatory earlier. However, keeping in mind parents’ concerns, it has been issued as a directive to schools in the new guidelines. The new guidelines also direct schools to continue with a hybrid model of classes, wherein online classes need to be arranged for those children whose parents do not give consent for physical classes. This gives an option to the parents to decide whether or not they want to send their wards to schools,” said Singh.Education experts said the hybrid model works for those students who cannot afford to continue online classes. “All through the pandemic, students from financially humble families had to struggle for online classes. The government’s decision to allow hybrid model of classes gives all students an option that is suitable for them,” said Aditi Basu Roy, principal of Grads International School, Greater Noida and president of All India School Principals Association, Gautam Budh Nagar.
30-12-2021||Other||Work on to ensure better facilities during Antargrahi Yatra in Kashi: UP minister||HT Correspondent letters@htlive.com VARANASI: Uttar Pradesh (UP) tourism minister Neelkanth Tiwari on Wednesday laid the foundation of development works for ensuring better facilities for pilgrims and tourists during the Antargrahi yatra. He said quick response code (QR code) signage, construction of smooth pathways, art work on walls portraying story of the nearby temples, installation of solar lights and other works will be done on the yatra route covering Vishweshwar Khand and Omkareshwar Khand in Kashi. Antargrahi yatra is a pilgrimage undertaken by many in Kashi. As part of this, the pilgrims get to visit many temples. The minister also inaugurated other development works including temple stairs, lighting and shed at the Omkareshwar temple and instructed officials to complete the tourism development works in time. Region tourism officer Keertiman Srivastava said that ₹116.73 lakh and ₹128.24 lakh have been approved for tourism development in Shri Vishweshwar Khand and Omkareshwar Khand. Srivastava said that after completion of these works, the pilgrims/tourists would be able to do the yatra comfortably. “QR codes would be marked on all the signage so that the visitors/tourists can scan the QR code and get information about the entire Antargrahi yatra journey,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/work-on-to-ensure-better-facilities-during-antargrahi-yatra-in-kashi-up-minister-101640804608878.html
30-12-2021||Other||Ludhiana bomb blast: Money trail found; ₹3 lakh in accused’s account||Ludhiana A money trail has emerged in the Ludhiana bomb blast case, with main accused Gagandeep Singh’s bank account being credited with ₹3 lakh in the second week of December, in instalments. Police is probing from where Gagandeep, who was now a cloth trader, received the amount. The bank employee with whom Gagandeep was is touch has also been questioned. The woman constable, who was allegedly her lover, maintains that she did not hand him the money. Two former SHOs of Sadar police station, Khanna, have also been questioned, without much success. The role of Sukhwinder Singh Boxer, who is on production warrant till January 1, could provide crucial lead to investigation agencies.A resident of Rohno village near Khanna, Boxer and his three accomplices were arrested with 260-gm heroin and illegal weapons, when they were on their way to Doraha from Mohali on October 10. Investigators believed that Gagandeep (who was then a head constable) had come in touch with Boxer and later joined him and Ranjit Singh, a former cop who was also held on a drug smuggling case, in jail. “Ever after coming out of jail, Gagandeep was in constant touch with Boxer and Ranjit Singh,” sources said. Police being arrested, again, in 2019 Boxer was in touch with some militant groups in J&K, when he went there to procure AK-47 rifles, sources said. Boxer was lodged in Nabha jail, where he developed friendship with Khalistan Liberation Force terrorist Kashmir Singh Galwaddi, who had escaped during the Nabha jailbreak in 2017 and was later arrested.“Boxer is facing trial in 11 cases, including cases under the UAPA. He was also a friend of notorious gangster Harinder Singh, alias Rinda, of Nanded. He is also a proclaimed offender in a sodomy case.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ludhiana-bomb-blast-money-trail-found-rs-3-lakh-in-accused-s-account-101640804606343.html
30-12-2021||Delhi||Omicron probably behind case spike in Delhi, shows analysis||More than half of the Covid-19 samples analysed in the last seven-day period by one of Delhi’s main hospitals carrying out genome analysis are of Omicron, according to data accessed by HT, which suggests the surge in cases in the city is being driven by the new variant of concern (VOC).Between December 21 and 28, the Institute of Liver and Biliary Sciences (ILBS) analysed 125 samples, of which 67 were of the Omicron variant. A person aware of the matter said the samples were from labs in different parts of the city, suggesting the virus may be in community transmission.“These positive samples were taken as part of sentinel surveillance as Delhi government has now decided to sequence all samples that test positive for Covid-19. We were suspecting it to be Omicron even before the whole genome sequencing results came as doubling time has been around 3 days, and Delta was not spreading this fast,” said a person familiar with the development, asking not to be named. This person said that based on the experience of other countries where the VOC has spread, cases will rise, perhaps peaking around the end of January, before the wave recedes sharply. “It looks it will subside soon after, and people should not panic. We are a Delta-infected community with 100% coverage of first Covid-19 vaccine dose; therefore, disease is likely to be less severe,” this person said. “Having said that, people must not drop their guard and strictly adhere to Covid-appropriate behaviour such as wearing a masks, maintaining social distancing and hand hygiene, and avoiding crowded spaces etc,” added the person. The documents seen by HT included sequencing results from the National Centre for Disease Control and Lok Nayak hospital. It was not immediately clear what proportion of these were community samples since they also sequence samples from international travellers who test positive.At NCDC, a total of 263 samples were analysed out of which Omicron was found in 101, Delta variant in 27 samples, while the rest were unclassified. At Lok Nayak hospital, of a total 80 samples analysed, 12 were of Omicron while 62 were of the Delta variant. Dr Suresh Kumar, medical director of Lok Nayak hospital, said the laboratory at the hospital has the capacity to analyse 100 samples in a day. “The capacity of the laboratory has been recently increased. Earlier the laboratory was able to analyse only around 40 samples in a day,” Kumar said. Dr Kumar said that since December 2 a total of 70 Omicron patients have been admitted to Lok Nayak hospital, out of which 50 have been discharged after treatment and 20 are currently admitted. “All had international travel history or were common contacts of those who arrived from abroad except two persons who apparently got infected at some wedding parties,” said Dr Kumar. Apart from Lok Nayak, Delhi has four private hospitals that have set up Omicron isolation units. Delhi government on December 18 asked Max Smart Super Speciality Hospital, Saket; Batra Hospital & Research Centre, Tughlakabad Institutional Area; Fortis Super Specialty Hospital, Vasant Kunj; and Sir Ganga Ram City Hospital for institutional isolation facility for Omicron patients.Experts said it is clear that the variant was in circulation within the community because of the way numbers are escalating.“It is already there; we have been genome sequencing less samples, if we did more then, the number would go up further. The way number of cases are going up, it couldn’t be the delta variant. However, preventive measures remain the same- masking-up, vaccination, following other Covid appropriate behaviour,” said Dr GC Khilnani, former head, pulmonary medicine department, All India Institute of Medical Sciences, Delhi.
30-12-2021||Noida||Noida: 98% of cases reported in December vaccinated, no severe symptoms||Of the 127 adults who tested positive for Covid-19 in Noida from November 30 to December 28, 123, or 98%, were administered both vaccine doses, according to data from the health department. However, doctors said no one displayed severe symptoms, which was a positive sign. A total of 148 cases were reported in Noida from November 30 to December 28. It includes 21 patients below the age of 18, who were not eligible to take the vaccine, shows the health department report that was sent to the state government on Wednesday. Health officials said of the 127 adults who tested Covid positive, two were partially vaccinated while two others had not even taken the first dose yet. Additionally, there has been just one case of reinfection in the entire month--of a doctor from a private hospital. “These are positive trends. We have seen that most people who were infected were either asymptomatic or had mild symptoms. It is possible that their symptoms were mild because they had taken both vaccine doses. People need to take the vaccine doses on time. It is as important for preventing the spread of Covid, as sanitisation or social distancing,” said Dr Sunil Sharma, chief medical officer. He added that since the patients had mild symptoms and none of them required admission, Noida Covid hospital and Kailash hospital are the only two hospitals in the district as of now notified for the treatment of Covid-19 patients. 21 fresh cases in Noida As many as 21 cases were reported in Noida on Wednesday, taking the tally of Covid infections reported in the month of December to 162. Over 20 fresh cases have been reported for the second day in a row. There are a total of 99 active cases now in Gautam Budh Nagar, the highest in the state, shows official data. The health department is on alert and has increased daily testing to around 3,000 now. So far 63,582 Covid cases have been reported in the district on the back of 1,750,558 tests, with a positivity rate of 3.6%. The state government also conducted a sero survey from December 24 to 28 in 15 districts--Gautam Budh Nagar, Ghaziabad, Lucknow, Varanasi, Gorakhpur, Muradabad, Meerut, Prayagraj, Bareily, Banda, Agra, Kanpur, Maharajganj, Deoria and Azamgarh. A total of 1,496 samples were collected from across the state. “This is the second sero survey being conducted by the state government. We were given a list of people by the state. We contacted them and collected samples from those who gave consent. About 100 samples have been collected from people under five categories,” said Dr Amit Kumar, public health expert of the health department. He added that the categories included those over 60 years of age, healthcare workers who tested positive, healthcare workers who have not tested positive yet and those between 18-44 age group among others. The first sero survey conducted by the state in the first week of June after the second wave showed that 66.4% people had developed antibodies against the Covid infection in Gautam Budh Nagar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/noida-98-of-cases-reported-in-december-vaccinated-no-severe-symptoms-101640804552300.html
30-12-2021||Mumbai||Healthy democracy can thrive with independent press: CJI Ramana||Mumbai Chief Justice of India (CJI) N V Ramana during his keynote address at the RedInk Awards for Excellence in Journalism hosted virtually by the Mumbai Press Club on Wednesday evening, while speaking on the current state of journalism and media, lamented the decline in the credibility of the noble profession which is “suffering due to lack of facts verification in the age of digital media” and stated that a professional journalist is one who does not permit “seeping of ideological stances and biases into the news story.” The CJI added that “A healthy democracy can thrive and survive only with a fearless and independent press.” CJI NV Ramana praised Mumbai city for being at the forefront of protecting the freedom of speech and expression and has produced great patriarchs, freedom fighters, human rights activists and journalists of great professional integrity. Stating that as he had started his career as a journalist and was aware of the difficulties and struggles faced by the scribes, the CJI said, “Speaking truth to power and holding up a mirror to society is an immense responsibility that is extremely difficult to fulfil. There is enormous pressure and stress upon you. In the contemporary world performing your duty as a journalist is akin to dancing on a razor’s edge.” While referring to the safety of journalists and their stress faced by their families CJI Ramana said, “Those in powerful positions, both political leaders and bureaucracy, the mafia of all shades and those on the wrong side of the law – none of them are comfortable with a professional journalist. As a result, you keep getting unpleasant and disturbing messages.” Stating that there were efforts to bracket journalists into a particular category and how painful it was, he said that it is yet an extremely satisfying profession to pursue and like the legal profession, the journalist’s job is noble. “Like the legal professional, a journalist also needs to have a strong moral fibre and moral compass. The freedom of the press is a valuable and sacred right enshrined in the Indian constitution, without such freedom there cannot be discussion and debate that is essential for the growth of democracy. There can be no flow of information that the public requires and democracy demands but the profession is vastly different from when I was a journalist. All things change, it is inevitable. Unless you are willing to evolve and change you will stagnate and be left behind,” said CJI Ramana. Speaking on the transformation of traditional journalism, he said that there is digital news media platforms and social media reporting. CJI Ramana said that while the transformation was good as more information was available for the people but added that there was cause for worry as well. Referring to the adverse and incorrect reporting which cannot be taken back from social media like YouTube, the CJI Ramana said, “You media professionals will have to voluntarily come forward with solutions for such a menace. I will advice all of you to follow the principles of natural justice before making adverse comments against someone who is not in a position to defend himself.” Referring to the bias in reporting, CJI Ramana said, “Another trend that I witness in reporting nowadays, is the seeping of ideological stances and biases into the news story. Interpretation and opinions are colouring what should be factual reports. News mixed with views is a dangerous cocktail.” “Nothing can be more lethal to democracy than the deadly combination of confrontational polity & competitive journalism. Tragically, they feed on each other. History is witness to this hard truth. Allowing yourself to be co-opted by an ideology or the state is a recipe for disaster,” said CJI Ramana. He also exhorted the media to defend the judiciary from motivated attacks by evil forces. “We are together in the mission of democracy and in promoting national interest, we have to sail together,” said CJI Ramana. The CJI also appreciated the work of Reuters photojournalist late Danish Siddiqui who was killed in Afghanistan and called him - the foremost photojournalist of this era. He also highlighted the dangerous working conditions of journalists working in areas of conflict. He also lauded the work of the journalists who lost their lives while reporting during the pandemic and thanked all others for highlighting the plight of citizens too. Speaking about the RedInk Awards for Excellence in Journalism, Gurbir Singh, chairman of Mumbai Press Club said that the awards had special significance this year as they marked the 10th edition of peer recognition for excellent writing and good journalism.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/healthy-democracy-can-thrive-with-independent-press-cji-ramana-101640804550870.html
30-12-2021||Other||Three children die of asphyxiation in Abohar||BATHINDAThree young siblings were asphyxiated to death and their parents were admitted to hospital in a serious condition after they reportedly slept with a coal brazier in a room at their house in Abohar town on Tuesday night.Abohar DSP Sandeep Singh said that on Wednesday morning when residents in the vicinity of a poultry farm did not notice the movement of the family, they decided to enter the house of the migrant workers.All five members of the family were lying unconscious and were rushed to the Abohar civil hospital.The doctors declared Pooja, 10, Deepu, 10, and Poonam, 3, brought dead, while their father Krishan, 35, and mother Radha, 32, are battling for life at Guru Gobind Singh Medical College in Faridkot, said the DSP.Prima facie, it seemed that the family used an “angithi” due to a severe cold last night. As they had closed the door, they got suffocated, said the police. Officials said the victims hailed from Bulandshahr district in Uttar Pradesh and their relatives were informed about the incident. The last rites of the children will be performed on Thursday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/three-children-die-of-asphyxiation-in-abohar-101640804256126.html
30-12-2021||Noida||Ghaziabad: Proposal for urban ropeway project forwarded to Centre for approval||The Ghaziabad Development Authority (GDA) has forwarded a formal proposal of the urban passenger ropeway project in Ghaziabad to the ministry of road transport and highways (Morth) for approval while the permission for the project at the local-level will be sought in the authority’s board meeting scheduled on January 7, said officials in the know of the matter on Wednesday. The GDA’s ropeway project has been planned as an alternative to a Metro extension to connect Mohan Nagar on the Red line and Vaishali on the Blue line of Delhi Metro Rail Corporation (DMRC) in Ghaziabad. General (retired) V K Singh, who is also minister of state for road transport and highways and civil aviation and also and MP from Ghaziabad, floated the proposal earlier this year. “We have forwarded a formal proposal of the ropeway project to the Morth for approval after we received the in-principle approval for the project at a meeting, which was attended by General Singh and other officials of the Centre, earlier in December. We will put forward the proposal before the GDA board in the upcoming board meeting, from where it will be routed to the state government,” said Ahish Shivpuri, GDA’s chief architect and town planner. “Once we get the approval from all the concerned authorities, the project may get a head start in June/July next year. As discussed, the Centre will bear 20% of the project cost, 60% will be borne by the agency which will develop the project and the GDA’s share will be 20%,” said Shivpuri. Ropeway is a transport system for ferrying goods or people, especially in mountainous areas or mines, wherein the carrier cars are suspended with the help of moving cables powered by a motor system. Earlier in October, the cost of the project, which was originally pegged at ₹ 487 crore, was reduced to ₹450 crore. GDA officials said the entire ropeway project will be elevated on 27 pillars and will move over the Regional Rapid Transit System alignment near Sahibabad. The project’s detailed project report has proposed four stations for the ropeway at Mohan Nagar, Sahibabad, Vasundhara and Vaishali. The first and the last stations will be connected to the respective Metro stations with the help of 150m-long skywalks, which will be constructed by the GDA. According to the DPR estimates, a passenger will have to shell out a minimum fare of ₹20 and a maximum of ₹30 for travelling the entire distance. It is also estimated that the ropeway system will be used by 80,000 passengers in a week once it begins full-fledged operations.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/ghaziabad-proposal-for-urban-ropeway-project-forwarded-to-centre-for-approval-101640804246250.html
30-12-2021||Delhi||2 weeks after Omicron hit Delhi, fewer than 3% Covid hospital beds occupied||Fewer than 3% of the 21,518 beds in hospitals earmarked for Covid patients are currently occupied, leaving over 97% beds vacant even after more over two weeks of Omicron invasion in the Capital. For a city reeling under multiple travel and economic curbs imposed to contain rapid Covid spread, the negligible hospital beds occupancy as of December 28 is a major relief. It underlines that the variant appears to be in line with global trends that it is more transmissible but less virulent, and that the variant of concern (VOC) does not crowd hospitals like the Delta variant did.Suresh Kumar, medical director of Lok Nayak Hospital, the Delhi government’s largest hospital, said most of the Omicron positive patients test negative for Covid within a week, while those infected with Delta variant took around 11 days to turn negative. “Almost all the Covid-positive cases admitted at Lok Nayak Hospital did not have any symptoms and recovered very fast,” Kumar said.A Delhi government official said that the faster recovery rate, and lower requirement for hospital treatment or oxygen suggests that the bed occupancy is likely to remain low even if the current level of spike in Covid cases continues for weeks.As of December 28, only 2.92% of thededicated normal beds and 3% oxygenated beds are occupied, while ICU occupancy is only 0.97%, and only 1% of ventilators are being used. Dr Jugal Kishore, head of the department of community medicine at Safdarjung hospital, said, “Although the Omicron variant is highly transmissible is mild in nature. Therefore, it is unlikely to have high hospital admission rate in India. Another reason of the lower health impact of Omicron is the high percentage of infection during previous waves. People with positive RT-PCR tests but with mild symptoms should not rush to hospital, be calm, and manage with home isolation, as suggested by the government,” said Dr Kishore.Chief minister Arvind Kejriwal has also appealed to people not to panic because Omicron variant is highly transmissible, but extremely mild with fewer hospitalisations and casualties.The government is also strengthening the home isolation model to deal with the spike in cases. Under the home isolation system, as soon as someone tests positive, they will get a phone call from the government. “They’ll be told that the authorities will be in constant touch, and provide all the help you need. Then, a team from the Delhi government will visit their house and give them a Covid kit with all required items, including an oximeter. From then on, doctors will counsel them every day till they get cured. Whatever agencies that are needed to be on-boarded for this whole arrangement will be employed within a couple of days. I have given strict orders to get this done. We are taking radical steps to take care of the situation. Till now our home visit capacity was around 1,000 cases a day. We are now escalating it to 1 lakh a day,” Kejriwal said on December 23.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/2-weeks-after-omicron-hit-delhi-fewer-than-3-covid-beds-hospitals-occupied-101640804186366.html
30-12-2021||Delhi||Woman gang-raped inside car in Delhi, 2 nabbed||A 30-year-old woman was allegedly gang-raped in west Delhi’s Hari Nagar by two men inside a moving car on early Monday morning, police said on Wednesday. Police said the suspects were arrested from their homes in outer Delhi’s Ranhola, a few hours after a case was registered at the Hari Nagar police station on Monday. Police said the suspects were drunk, and were driving around the area when they spotted the woman walking on the road at 3am. Investigators said it is one of the rare rape cases in the city, in which the survivor -- who is not known or related to the accused person. About 1,500 rape cases are registered in Delhi each year, of which less than 2% fall in this category, they said. In almost 98% of the cases, the alleged rapists are usually friends, neighbours, family members, partners or someone known to the survivor.Investigators said the woman called up the police control room at 4.30am on Monday. They said that the woman reported that she was offered a lift by two men in a car from Hari Nagar, and raped her inside the vehicle. She said that the suspects threw her outside in outer Delhi’s Nihal Vihar area.A police team reached the spot, and took the woman to a nearby government hospital. Investigators said a medical examination of the woman has confirmed sexual assault. A police officer involved in the probe said the woman could not tell the police the exact spot where she was offered the lift by the two suspects. She was also not aware of the route that they took to Nihal Vihar since it was dark, the officer, who asked not to be named, said. Quoting the victim’s initial statement to the police, the officer said she left her house in west Delhi after a fight with her husband. “We had basic details. She said after she walked for some time on the road, two men in a car offered her lift. The woman said that she asked them to drop her at a nearby place,” said a second officer who is also part of the probe.The police checked footage from the CCTVs installed in the areas mentioned by the woman, and found that she left her house around 2.45am. At 3 am, she was picked up from Hari Nagar, and was thrown out of the car at 4.25 am in Nihal Vihar – nearly 10 kms away from where she was offered the lift. Referring to several posts on the social media about the case which mentioned that the police were fighting over jurisdiction, instead of investigating the matter, senior police officers confirmed that initially there was a confusion over the issue since Hari Nagar is part of west police district, and Nihal Vihar falls under the outer police district. The officer added that as soon as the facts of the case became clear, the matter was resolved and the case was immediately registered at the Hari Nagar police station. Additional DCP (West) Prashant Gautam said a case under sections 376 (D) (gang rape) and 342 (wrongful confinement) of the IPC has been registered. “Teams were immediately formed to crack the case. With the help of a technical investigation, two people were apprehended,” he said.Investigating officers said they got the registration number of the car through CCTV footage, and found that it was registered on an address in Ranhola. “A woman who lived at the address said her relative Vinit was using the car. We arrested Vinit and his friend Sagar. The two confessed that it was Sagar’s birthday on Christmas, and they were celebrating it on Sunday night. They confessed that they found the woman standing alone, and offered a lift after which they raped her,” one investigating officer said. Vinit, 29, and Sagar, 20 were both referred to only by their first names in the FIR.Police said Vinit has a criminal background. “There were four cases of robbery and other petty crimes registered against Vinit. Sagar does not have a criminal record,” said a third officer, adding that police were checking the records of the two suspects with all other stations in Delhi.Between January 1 and November 30, Delhi reported at least 1,845 rapes, compared to 1,448 in 2020. Cases of outraging a woman’s modesty, which police tags as “eve teasing”, also increased this year with 2,193 cases being reported this year so far. Last year, 1,824 such cases were reported, according to Delhi Police data.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/woman-gang-raped-inside-car-in-delhi-2-nabbed-101640804007723.html
30-12-2021||Delhi||Woman moves Delhi HC over delay in genome test report of her Covid+ son||New Delhi: The Delhi high court on Wednesday sought the response of the Centre and the city government on a plea by a woman who sought to know the outcome of the genome sequencing test of her Covid positive son.The petitioner added that her son was not being discharged by a private hospital for the lack of clarity on the virus variant.According to the plea, the 18-year-old arrived at the Delhi airport from one of the “at-risk” countries and tested positive for Covid-19. He has been in isolation at a private hospital since December 25 morning, the plea said.Justice Jyoti Singh said the protocols imposed by the authorities ought to be followed, but the petitioner was entitled to know the genome test result as it was not a “national secret”.“They (governments) have to tell who has done the genome sequencing and when the report is going to come. The court will ensure that it comes to you (mother) and for that, we have to give them a day’s time… It’s your son and his genome sequencing. Why shouldn’t you know it? I don’t understand if there is any national secret in that,” the judge told the petitioner.The court issued notices and granted time to the counsels for the two governments to seek instructions.The judge said that the court expected both the governments to inform “what has happened to the genomic testing; who is doing it; where is the report and when will the report come”.The Centre’s counsel said the Delhi government was “managing the whole scenario”, and the Delhi government counsel stated that it was “not clear from the petition” as to who carried out the genome test.The matter will now be heard on December 31.“There is a boy in the hospital for the past couple of days. You have to tell the court what happens to your genomic testing. You are right, these are the guidelines. Protocols have to be followed. These are good things but at the end of the day, she wants to know where my genomic testing report is because my child is being kept in the hospital to await the outcome of the report. She is entitled to say that and entitled to know that,” the court said.The counsel for the petitioner informed the court that upon the arrival at the Delhi international airport from one of the at-risk countries, the son tested positive for the virus and then a second swab was collected by the authorities for genome sequencing but no “lab reference number” was provided to enable the patients to track the report.The petitioner, who was present in person, claimed that her son was in isolation at a private hospital since the morning of December 25 and was not being discharged to await the result of the genome sequencing test.She claimed that in spite of her son being a mild case of COVID-19, the private hospital was not re-testing him.Following this, the court asked both the Centre and the Delhi government to resolve the issue and tell the court as to who had taken the swab for conducting the genome test.“I’m not meddling with your guidelines and protocol. I’m not interfering in anything else. My only concern as a court … (is) when children are coming from foreign countries, they are anxious and their parents are anxious,” the court responded.The court also asked the authorities to inform it about the status of the petitioner’s son’s COVID-19 re-test, if any.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/woman-moves-delhi-hc-over-delay-in-genome-test-report-of-her-covid-son-101640803947636.html
30-12-2021||Noida||Ghaziabad: Camps to be set up in schools to administer jabs to children||The district health department has chalked out a strategy to inoculate as many as children as possible in two weeks starting from January 3, the day from when the vaccination programme for beneficiaries falling in the 15-18 years age group is supposed to roll out. In his address to the nation on December 25, Prime Minister Narendra Modi announced that vaccination for children in the 15-18 years will start from January 3, 2022. Health officials said they have sent communication to schools to collect data of children falling in the 15-18 years age group. The district currently has 250 teams involved in the vaccination process and about 50-75 teams may be diverted for vaccinating children. “We have planned to set up camps in schools for inoculating children. We will divert about 50-75 teams, which will set up vaccination camps and cover all private and government schools. Children can also come along with their parents to the regular vaccination centres. This way, we will be able to enhance our vaccination coverage and ensure maximum children are inoculated within two weeks,” said Dr Sunil Tyagi, additional chief medical officer.Officials said they will be concentrating all their efforts on vaccinating children as of the 107 Covid patients reported in Ghaziabad district so far in the month of December, 17 of them are children. According to official data, there are nearly 250,000 children in the district in the 15-18 years age group. Officials said that they are also waiting for the guidelines for the vaccination of children from the state health department.Experts said the vaccination strategy for children should also include allotment of exclusive online slots and special vaccination centres only for children. “Such measures can be taken up to boost vaccination coverage among children.More vaccination camps should be set up in schools, as children will find it more convenient and be more comfortable there unlike in regular vaccination centres.The severity of infection among patients nowdays is almost negligible and most patients have remained in home isolation with mild symptoms,” said Dr Ashish Aggarwal, former president of Indian Medical Association (Ghaziabad). Tally of Covid cases breaches 100-mark The tally of Covid cases in Ghaziabad district crossed the 100 mark as 12 fresh cases were reported on Wednesday, taking the tally of infections reported in the month of December to 107. Of the 12 cases, six are from Kaushambi, three from Indirapuram and one each from New Vijay Nagar, Vaishali, and Shastri Nagar. There are 73 active cases in the district, with 68 patients in home isolation while the remaining are taking treatment in healthcare facilities. According to official records, the district has so far recorded 55,789 cases since the beginning of the pandemic. With the rise in cases, the sample positivity has also gone up to 0.07% on Wednesday, while it was 0.01% on November 30. The overall sample positivity rate now stands at 2.68%.
30-12-2021||Lucknow||Leopard spotted in Lucknow 3 days ago still untraceable: Forest dept||LUCKNOW: The leopard, which was first spotted in Adilnagar and then in Kalyanpur and Jankipuram areas on December 25, is still untraceable, according to the forest department officials. “The last information about the Leopard’s presence was from Integral University, but the team could not find pugmarks of the wild animal. Five rescue teams are still camping in the area to avoid any possible man-animal conflict,” said Ravi K Singh, divisional forest officer on Wednesday. Forest officials said that chances were that the animal might have retreated to the forest area. The forest department has issued guidelines for locals to stay safe.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/leopard-spotted-in-lucknow-3-days-ago-still-untraceable-forest-dept-101640803766094.html
30-12-2021||Noida||Covid curbs: Commuters in Ghaziabad wait in long queues for Metro ride||Long queues were spotted outside Metro stations in Ghaziabad as the Delhi Metro Rail Corporation (DMRC) started restricting passengers’ movement at stations after the Delhi government issued a ‘yellow alert’ under the first phase of the Graded Response Action Plan (Grap) to curb the spread of Covid-19 in the national capital.The Delhi government issued the yellow alert as the Covid positivity rate has been above 0.5% for two consecutive days---0.68% on December 27 and 0.89% on December 28. Queues of people started piling up outside different stations on the Red line and the Blue line of the DMRC network in Ghaziabad as the time taken for entering the stations increased. The DMRC’s Red line has eight stations in Ghaziabad with the Metro corridor terminating at the New Bus Adda station while the Blue line has two stations with the terminating station at Vaishali.Passengers were seen waiting outside the New Bus Adda, Arthala, Mohan Nagar and Vaishali Metro stations. “The time taken for entering stations has increased. I had to wait for about an hour to enter the station at New Bus Adda and got late for office,” said Monu Sharma, a resident of Kavi Nagar. “I waited for about half an hour outside the New Bus Adda Metro station and then decided to take an auto to Anand Vihar border to reach Delhi. The queues outside the stations were very long and hardly any social distancing was being observed,” said Mohammad Nazim, a passenger. The Delhi government on Tuesday announced a series of curbs in the national capital in the wake of rising Covid cases. According to the new guidelines issued by the Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA), Metro trains have to run with 50% occupancy on the seats and no standing passengers are allowed. A spokesperson of DMRC said the waiting time increased due to restrictions which were rolled out on Tuesday. “We have advised passengers to keep extra time in hand for their journey. The seating capacity has been restricted to 50% in a coach and no one will be allowed to commute by standing.The movement of passengers and queues inside the Metro station premises are being monitored by the DMRC; the queues outside the stations falls under the jurisdiction of the local administration. The schedule and number of trains have not been curtailed,” said the DMRC spokesperson. After the new guidelines were announced, the DMRC said of the 712 Metro gates in the network, only 444 will be kept open. The DMRC has also urged people to travel only for essential activities. “In view of the restrictions put in place to prevent the spread of the Covid-19 pandemic, entry through some of the gates will be regulated. Passengers are therefore requested to travel only if absolutely essential and keep some additional time for their travel,” it tweeted on Tuesday. In a statement issued on Wednesday, the DMRC said they have deployed 15 flying squads across the network to ensure that Covid safety protocol is being strictly adhered to by passengers inside trains and in the premises of the Metro stations. Officials of the Ghaziabad district administration said they have advised residents and commuters to strictly follow Covid protocols. “We again urge people to follow Covid protocols; violation may lead to imposition of penalty as well as legal action. We have also directed our teams to carry out inspections at Metro stations to check for violations,” said Vipin Kumar, additional district magistrate (city). 
30-12-2021||Delhi||Miles to go for a Metro as Covid curbs limit train capacity in Delhi||Commuters waited in serpentine queues before Metro stations across Delhi, Ghaziabad and Gurugram on Wednesday as the Delhi Metro Rail Corporation regulated entry of passengers to prevent crowding as well enforce the DDMA rule to allow only 50% seating capacity that was issued under the Yellow Alert on Tuesday, after a fresh spike in Covid cases and the positivity rate staying above 0.5% for two consecutive days. Commuters at several stations said they had to wait up to an hour that resulted in a prolonged travel time. They added that since both government and private offices are still open, and there were no curbs on movement of people during the day, adequate public transport arrangements should have been made. Travellers also said that since DMRC allowed passenger entry from few gates, it led to long queues outside the station, and flouting of social distancing norms. Public bus users too complained that they had to wait for nearly an hour at bus shelters due to limited carriage capacity. The DDMA order says that both Metro and public buses will be allowed to carry passengers up to 50% seating capacity, and that no standing travellers will be allowed. At Laxmi Nagar Metro station in east Delhi, there was a long queue outside the station in the morning. A similar situation was reported from Akshardham, Mohan Garden, Rohini West, Kirti Nagar Metro stations in Delhi, and Shaheed Sthal (new Bus Adda) and Arthala stations in Ghaziabad. In Gurugram, there was rush outside Iffco Chowk and Huda City Centre stations, but only in the evening. In the evening, hundreds of people were seen waiting outside several gates to the Rajiv Chowk Metro station.Office goers were also seen waiting outside Mandi House and Barakhamba Metro stations. Many Metro commuters tweeted to share the inconvenience they had to face to enter the station as well as prolonged travelling time. Pronjoy Kumar Ghose, a banking professional, tweeted, “Shame on Delhi metro @ArvindKejriwal we bank employees need to attend office any how and you are letting us stand in kilometre long que ! Please arrange priority entrance for essential service provider (sic).”To manage the crowd at the stations, the Metro on Tuesday decided to open just one or two gates at all stations. Of the total 712 gates at its stations, only 444 were kept open on Wednesday, said a DMRC official.In some cases, however, all gates at a few stations for shut to regulate the crowd. But, they were opened soon. Pradeep Singh, who works with a private firm, waited for nearly 20 minutes outside the Laxmi Nagar station on Wednesday morning before taking an auto to reach his office in Karol Bagh. “I usually take the Metro, as it takes just half an hour of commuting time. Today, I had to take an auto since there was a long queue before the station, and couldn’t waited so long to board the train. Instead of reducing the capacity by 50%, they should just ask Metro to ensure social distancing in trains,” he said.Transport experts also pointed out that the Metro systems are designed to provide more standing capacity than seating in order to carry a large number of commuters.According to DMRC officials, on an average around 1,800 passengers can travel in a six-coach train in one trip. But as standing passengers are not allowed and seating has been reduced to 50%, only 300-odd passengers can travel on one trip.With almost 400km-long network in Delhi-NCR, the Metro is considered the transport lifeline of the capital. But post-Covid pandemic, there have been several challenges for both for the commuters and the operators in order to ensure Covid protocols are followed. Metro services were closed for over five months since March last year when the nationwide lockdown was announced due to the pandemic. Even after the services resumed in September last year, Metro operated on 50% seating capacity. In July this year, the Delhi government allowed 100% seating, and standing passengers (30 per coach) were allowed last month.Raja Chowdhury, who works with a private firm, said, “It was the fastest and most convenient mode of travel in Delhi. But today, it was a pain, as I had to wait for almost 40 minutes outside Rajiv Chowk in the evening. Now I’ll take a cab or auto till this restriction continues.”Metro deployed multiple teams to check violations of Covid norms in trains and at stations. Anuj Dayal, executive director, corporate communications, DMRC said, “As part of the intensified measures for containing Covid-19 spread, 15 flying squads have been deployed across the Delhi Metro network to ensure that the Covid safety protocol is strictly adhered to by the passengers inside trains and premises. The frequency of checking drives is also being increased to ensure strict adherence to the guidelines and offenders are also being penalised on the spot.”Some Metro users requested the DMRC on social media to increase the number of security check counters at the stations. Ankit Sharma, a Metro user, tweeted, “It is fine that some gates have been closed due to the new restrictions due to the rise in the number of Covid cases. But please increase the number of security check counters so that there is no crowding at the platform.”Public busesFor lakhs of Delhiites, especially in rural areas or those not having direct Metro connectivity, the cluster and Delhi Transport Corporation buses are crucial for daily commute. But with the carrying capacity of buses restricted, those dependent on public bus service faced difficulty in travelling to their workplaces on Wednesday.There are currently over 6,700 DTC and cluster buses in the capital. At its full capacity, including standing passengers, these buses carry about 4.2 million people every day.A senior transport department official said, “Due to the restriction, the capacity capacity has reduced drastically as only 50% seating is allowed.”When asked if the DTC was planning to rope in private buses to enhance the bus fleet till restrictions are in place, the official said, “Private buses are roped in during peak pollution time, especially during odd-even. But this restriction is related to Covid. There is no plan as of now to rope in private buses.”Due to the restriction, the capacity of para transit such as autorickshaws, taxis, e-rickshaws etc has also been restricted to two passengers per vehicle.Experts speakTransport experts say that there is a need to make short and long-term plans to address the challenges in order to stop public transport users from switching to personal vehicles.To immediately address the problems being faced by the commuters, the experts suggested that the government should add buses to the public fleet, and coaches to Metro trains to enhance carriage capacity.Sewa Ram, professor of transport planning at the School of Planning and Architecture, said, “There is an urgent need to augment the capacity of the public transport infrastructure. The Metro should add more coaches and the number of public transport buses should be increased so that commuters don’t face much problem. This will also prevent people from switching to personal vehicles for daily commute.”He said that private bus operators can be roped in, like it was done during the odd-even scheme, to provide better services.Anumita Roychowdhury, executive director, research and advocacy at the Centre for Science and Environment, said that augmenting the bus fleet will provide immediate relief to commuters, but measures should also be planned for short distance travel. She also suggested that staggered working hours should be implemented. “A lot of people use public transport or personal vehicles for short distance travel within 3-4 km. There is a need to develop efficient and safe walking and cycling infrastructure so that people can walk or cycle. Staggered working hours will also help in bringing down the pressure on the public transport system during peak hours,” she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/miles-to-go-for-a-metro-as-covid-curbs-limit-train-capacity-in-delhi-101640803526751.html
30-12-2021||Delhi||2021: The year when Delhi broke a weather record every month||It was a year of extreme weather events and records being broken in the Capital each month this year, which could indicate that the impact of the climate crisis is becoming more prominent over time. Not only did Delhi see extreme cold waves at the start and end of the year, it witnessed an intense monsoon that continued well into late October as the city recorded 1,512.4mm of rainfall till December 29, the second highest ever, behind 1,534.3mm in 1933.The heat was just as intense, with a “severe heatwave” recorded in June, while Delhi recorded its second warmest February in the last 120 years. March was little different, bringing the hottest day that month in the last 76 years, data from the India Meteorological Department (IMD) shows.The year began with January recording the highest number of cold wave days (seven) since 2008, and breaking the record for the highest rainfall seen that month in the last 21 years with 56.6mm of precipitation. February on the other hand was a complete contrast, with the cold dissipating to bring uncomfortable heat for that time of the year.The month recorded a mean maximum temperature of 27.9 degrees Celsius for the entire month, making it the second warmest February in the last 120 years, behind only 2006, when the mean maximum was 29.7 degrees. In March, the maximum touched 40.1 degrees Celsius on March 29, eight degrees above normal for this time of the year.Then, April brought an unusual cold spell back to the region. Delhi recorded a minimum temperature of 11.7 degrees Celsius (°C) on April 4 – the lowest minimum for the month in 12 years.In May came the impact of Cyclone Tauktae, and several records tumbled. The cyclone brought 119.3mm of rainfall to Delhi on May 19, the highest single-day rain for the month ever. The same day, Delhi’s maximum temperature was just 23.8°C — the lowest for May since 1951. The monsoon was erratic, arriving only on July 13 — 16 days after the normal date of June 27. This meant that June sizzled, with a heatwave recorded on June 29, which turned into a “severe heatwave” on June 30, taking Delhi’s maximum to 43.5°C – seven degrees above normal. From July onwards, several rain records were broken. There were three “heavy rainfall” spells recorded during the month, with the cumulative figure hitting 507.1mm, the second highest ever seen in the city. In August, Delhi recorded a “very heavy” rainfall spell of 138.8mm in a single day – the highest single day rainfall for August since 2007. And in September, Delhi recorded 413.3mm of rainfall – an excess of 230%, making it the highest rainfall for the month since 1944 and the second highest in 121 years. The monsoon’s exit was delayed by 13 days, finally withdrawing on October 8. However, a “heavy” rainfall spell of 87.9mm on October 18 led to Delhi receiving 122.5mm of rainfall during the month, making it the fourth highest for the month since 1900. Though no major weather record was broken in November, it was unusual as no western disturbances were recorded for the month, as opposed to usual one to two, making it a polluted month, and one in which the average monthly maximum was 27.8°C, the lowest since 2013.December so far has been warmer than usual, with the mean minimum temperature hovering at 8.4°C, the highest since 2017, but the Capital saw three “cold wave” days between December 19 and 21, which saw the mercury touching a season-low of 3.2°C. This is Delhi’s lowest for December since 2019. R.K Jenamani, scientist at the India Meteorological Department, said Delhi has had an unusual year, with frequent western disturbances and wet spells impacting the Capital. “Barring an unusually hot day in March, the period from March to May saw six to eight western disturbances in each month and there were plenty of wet spells. Annually, Delhi has received over 1,500mm of rainfall, but to link it to climate change, one will have to assess data over time,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/2021-the-year-when-delhi-broke-a-weather-record-every-month-101640803466753.html
30-12-2021||Other||Atal Rankings of Institutions on Innovation Achievements: MNNIT bags 10th position among CFTIs and CUs||PRAYAGRAJ: Motilal Nehru National Institute of Technology (MNNIT) Allahabad has added another feather to its cap by bagging a place among the country’s top academic institutions in terms of innovations, as per the Atal Rankings of Institutions on Innovation Achievements (ARIIA)-2021 released by union minister of state for education, Subhas Sarkar, on Wednesday. “The MNNIT secured 10th rank among the centrally funded technical institutions (CFTIs), central university and institute of national importance (technical) category. This was the first time the MNNIT had participated in the rankings. I congratulate the entire MNNIT fraternity for this achievement,” said MNNIT director Prof Rajeev Tripathi. According to Tripathi, Indian Institute of Technology (IIT) Madras has been ranked best in this sub category followed by IITs of Bombay, Delhi, Kanpur and Roorkee, respectively, making up the top 5. These institutions are followed by Indian Institute of Science (IISc), Bangalore, IITs of Hyderabad and Kharagpur, besides National Institute of Technology (NIT), Calicut along with MNNIT-Allahabad making the Top-10. ARIIA-2021 classified participating institutions into two major categories: Technical and non-technical. The technical category in turn has five sub-categories: CFTIs, central university and institute of national importance; state university and deemed university (government and government aided); government college/institution (government and government aided); university and deemed university (self-finance/private) besides private college/institute (self-finance/private). The newly introduced non-technical category classified higher education institutions into two sub-categories: CFIs/Central University/Institute of National Importance (non-technical) and general (non-technical). The ARIIA is a joint initiative of the ministry of education and AICTE to systematically rank higher educational institutions in India on indicators related to innovation, start-up and entrepreneurship development amongst students and faculty.It evaluates institutions on parameters like patent filing and grants, number of registered students and faculty startups, fund generation by incubated startups, specialised infrastructure created by institutions to promote innovation and entrepreneurship, etc. The first edition of the ARIIA was launched in 2018. This achievement comes close on the heels of MNNIT-Allahabad being awarded four stars in the annual performance result of Institution’s Innovation Council (IIC): 2020-21, announced recently by union ministry of education’s innovation cell (MIC) and All India Council for Technical Education (AICTE).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/atal-rankings-of-institutions-on-innovation-achievements-mnnit-bags-10th-position-among-cftis-and-cus-101640803347890.html
30-12-2021||Pune||GA Software head in police custody in TET case||PUNE: The Pune city police have found 1,270 candidates of Teacher Eligibility Test (TET) 2019-2020 suspected to have paid money to agents, and in-turn to the software company conducting the exam, in order to get on the qualification list. The list was extracted from the devices seized from the Harkal cousins - Ankush and Santosh - who are suspected to be heads of the agents’ chain. Six people are taken into custody on Wednesday, including president of GA Software company, who were previously arrested in other cases in the paper leak nexus, in the case of manipulation of result of TET 2019-2020. The accused were identified as software company president Pritish Deshmukh, 32, and suspected head of agents’ Santosh, 42, and Ankush, 44 - first arrested in MHADA paper leak case, and Ajay Chavan, 32; Krushna Jadhav, 33; and Ankit Chankhore, 23 - first arrested in health department Group D paper leak case. They were sent to police custody till January 1. The custody was granted by the court of Judge SK Dugaonkar with Public prosecutor VC Murlikar and defence lawyers Pratibha Pawar, Vijaysinh Thombre, and others. Police inspector Kumar Ghadage is investigating the case registered under Sections 406, 409, 420, 465, 467, 468, and 34 of Indian Penal Code along with Section 66(d) of Information Technology Act, and Sections 6 and 8 of Maharashtra Prevention of Malpractices at University, Board and other specified Examinations Act (1990 amendment) at Cyber police station. “A lot more data has to be extracted so the number can go up. Around 3 lakh aspirants had appeared and 1,600 had qualified,” said PP Murlikar. “Parallel investigation is already done with the two in MHADA case. They were in police custody for 14 days and judicial custody for 3 days,” said advocate Pratibha Deshmukh representing the Harkal brothers. Ousted commissioner of Maharashtra State Council of Examination Tukaram Namdev Supe, 58, and education consultant with the department Abhishek Ajay Savrikar, 31, were arrested in the case. They are in police custody until Thursday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/ga-software-head-in-police-custody-in-tet-case-101640803106171.html
30-12-2021||Delhi||Visibility below 100m amid season’s first ‘dense’ fog spell in Delhi||Delhi recorded its first “dense” fog spell of the winter season, with visibility dropping below 100 metres at Palam on Wednesday between 9am and 10am. The IMD classifies fog to be “dense” when visibility drops below 200 metres, while it is classified as “very dense” when it drops below 50 metres. Visibility between 200 and 500 metres is “moderate” while between 500 and 1,000 metres is “shallow” fog. Delhi is expected to record “moderate” fog on Thursday as well, with isolated parts recording “dense” fog. “Visibility was down to 100 metres at Palam between 9 and 10am, while “shallow” fog was recorded at Safdarjung. This is the first “dense” fog spell of this winter season and fog intensity is expected to remain high for the next few days,” says RK Jenamani, scientist at India Meteorological Department.While no flight cancellations or diversions were reported at Delhi’s Indira Gandhi International (IGI) Airport, some flights were delayed during this one hour-window.An airport official, requesting anonymity, confirmed there were minimal delays due to the fog, with no cancellations or diversions reported either. “Some flights were delayed, but the impact was only for around an hour. During this period, flight operations functioned smoothly,” the official said.Due to increased moisture in Delhi’s air after Tuesday’s light rain, the Capital’s air quality improved to “poor” with the Air Quality Index (AQI) recording a reading of 267 -- down from Tuesday’s reading of 305 (very poor).An AQI reading between 201 and 300 is considered “poor”, 301 and 400 “very poor”, and 401 and 500 “severe”.Delhi recorded a minimum temperature of 8.4 degrees Celsius on Wednesday – one degree above normal– while the maximum was 21.2 degrees, also one degree above normal for this time of the season. Jenamani said the minimum temperature could hover between 5 and 6 degrees Celsius for the next two days, with the maximum temperature settling at around 21 degrees Celsius. “Another western disturbance is expected to influence northwest India in the next two or three days, which will bring coldwave conditions to Punjab, Haryana and Chandigarh between December 30 and January 1; however, the impact in Delhi will not be much and the minimum could hover around 5 to 6 degrees Celsius,” Jenamani said.Delhi’s air quality is expected to hover between the “poor” and “moderate” categories in the next few days. According to the System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting And Research (Safar), a forecasting body, wind speed will remain high on December 30, 31 and January 1, allowing air quality to improve further. “Delhi’s AQI has improved due to Tuesday’s rain but is still within the ‘poor’ category. Relatively high wind speeds are likely for the next three days (December 30, 31, January 1), enhancing ventilation and affecting AQI to be in the lower end of the ‘poor’ to ‘moderate’ category,” said Safar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/visibility-below-100m-amid-season-s-first-dense-fog-spell-in-delhi-101640802986080.html
30-12-2021||Mumbai||State advises people to keep New Year celebrations low key||Mumbai The Maharashtra government has issued fresh guidelines asking people to welcome the new year from home and avoid stepping out as far as possible. The guidelines also urged citizens to keep the new year celebrations low key. The directives have been issued amid concerns of a spike in Covid cases owing to the outbreak of the Omicron variant.The guidelines were issued by the state home department on Wednesday.It reminded the order issued by the state Disaster Management Authority on December 24 and said that a night curfew has already been imposed prohibiting gathering of five or more people at places between 9 pm to 6 am.“People up to 25 per cent of the total capacity can come together to celebrate the New Year event at an open space, while for events to be organised in a closed enclosure, people up to 50 per cent of the total capacity will be allowed. But there should be no crowds and social distancing should be maintained along with masks, sanitizers and other Covid appropriate norms,” states the order.The state government asked citizens above 60 years of age and children below ten years of age to avoid stepping out of their homes. They have also asked people not to crowd beaches, gardens, parks and roads during the night of December 31 especially popular destinations in Mumbai such as Gateway of India, Marine Lines, Chowpatty and Juhu beaches. The state home department guidelines also said that no religious or cultural programmes or marches be organised. “Those like to visit religious places on the first day of the new year should also avoid going to religious gatherings. Do not have a display of firecrackers during the New Year celebrations and follow sound pollution rules,” it added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/state-advises-people-to-keep-new-year-celebrations-low-key-101640802746257.html
30-12-2021||Delhi||‘Wait, watch’: Delhi to not raise alert level yet||Yellow alert Covid-19 restrictions will continue in the Capital for the time being, the city’s administration decided on Wednesday, holding off on more curbs immediately if the next level according to its graded response action plan (Grap) is breached, while monitoring the nature of the outbreak and its severity. The decision comes at a time when scientific and epidemiological evidence from other countries suggest the Omicron variant is significantly less virulent than Delta, and is likely to lead to mild, often asymptomatic disease, even if the surge is sharp. “It was decided to continue with the existing restrictions imposed recently in view of rising cases and to keep a close vigil on the ground situation. The health department was advised to enhance the health preparedness to deal effectively with the emerging situation and to closely monitor bed occupancy besides strengthening the home isolation strategy,” lieutenant government Anil Baijal stated in a tweet.Under the government’s Covid-19 graded plan Grap, curbs on activity and movement become stricter if the number of new cases, the positivity rate or the rate of hospitalisations breach certain threshold. On Wednesday, one of these thresholds – 1% positivity rate – was breached after a gap of 212 days. “No fresh restrictions will be immediately imposed after the positivity rate remains over 1% for two consecutive days. The government is monitoring the situation and, will take any decision about imposing fresh curbs when the needs arise,” said a senior Delhi government official, who asked not to be named. According to the health bulletin released by the government on Wednesday, of the 2,191 active cases, 55 were on oxygen support with the rest being asymptomatic or mildly symptomatic. The number of new cases were 923, comprising 1.29% of tests that were conducted.The yellow alert, triggered when positivity rate stayed above 0.5%, led to a night curfew, closing of schools, colleges, movie theatres and gyms, triggering concerns from parents, child health experts, and the business community. Most of these groups said the government must readjust to account for Omicron variant’s reduced virulence.When amber alert is activated, public parks and gardens will have to close, Delhi Metro occupancy will need to be capped at 33%, restaurants and bars will need to shut for dine-in, and a weekend curfew will come in force.Wednesday’s decision was taken in a meeting of the DDMA chaired by Baijal, with chief minister Arvind Kejriwal, deputy CM Manish Sisodia, health minister Satyendra Jain, and revenue minister Kailash Gahlot in attendance, in addition to Dr VK Paul from NITI Aayog, Delhi chief secretary Vijay Dev, AIIMS director Dr Randeep Guleria, and others.The CM, people aware of the matter, said the DDMA should not rush to impose more curbs at this moment since the overall caseload was low and nearly 98% hospital beds were still vacant. The people added that deputy CM Manish Sisodia suggested the emerging Covid situation should be closely monitored before more curbs are imposed otherwise there could be panic and people may be motivated to migrate back. On previous occasions, drastic curbs have triggered reverse migration leading to unchecked gatherings at interstate bus terminals.DDMA also discussed at length whether it should make some amendments to the minimum criteria fixed under Grap for imposing the curbs, including whether the words “or” between the three factors be replaced by “and”. If such a change is to be made, all three tests must be met for the next level of curbs, the amber alert: a positivity rate above 1% for two days, at least 3,500 new cases a week, and at least 700 oxygen beds in hospitals being occupied over a seven-day period.“It was discussed whether positivity rate or new cases or hospitalisation should be given higher weightage in arriving at a decision to impose further curbs. No final decision was taken on changing the criteria even after discussion. It was decided that the DDMA should closely monitor the emerging situation and authorities should be asked to strictly enforce Covid-appropriate behaviour and strictly impose the curbs imposed under the first phase of restrictions,” a government official said not wanting to be identified.“After detailed discussion with experts the need to strictly follow and enforce Covid-appropriate behaviour was emphasised upon especially in wake of rising cases of the Omicron variant. It was also reiterated to continue with the test, track and treat strategy with special focus on surveillance, delineation of containment zones, isolation of positive cases and close monitoring of home isolation cases so as to break the chain of transmission,” the LG tweeted after the DDMA meeting.DDMA called upon all stakeholders for collective and concerted efforts to deal with the pandemic without lowering guard.Dr Jugal Kishore, head of the department of community medicine at Safdarjung hospital, said that Covid positivity over 1% does not indicate as dangerous sign as it did with Delta variant. “Due to high transmissibility of the Omicron variant, more infection would be there in the community but this will not result in hospital admission and case fatality. Therefore, stringent restriction would be of no use. According to recent pre-print research from South Africa, it is found that infection due to Omicron develops more neutralizing antibodies to the variant and also to Delta variant. Omicron is acting as vaccine to replace previous severe variants with milder form which could limit the pandemic in coming time,” he said.Confederation of All India Traders general secretary Praveen Khandelwal welcomed DDMA’s move not to go immediately go ahead with fresh economic and travel curbs. “The Covid situation appears to be under control, so the government should do away with odd-even restrictions on the markets and focus on strictly enforcing Covid appropriate behaviour. The night curfew should also be withdrawn because while protecting people from Omicron is important, protecting people from hunger is equally important,” said Khandelwal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/no-fresh-restrictions-immediately-ddma-to-continue-with-existing-curbs-101640802146790.html
30-12-2021||Lucknow||Focus on Ayodhya and Kashi during poll campaigns, Amit Shah tells partymen||VARANASI Ahead of the crucial Uttar Pradesh assembly elections, Union home minister Amit Shah directed Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) office bearers in Kashi and Gorakhpur regions to keep their election campaign centred around Ayodhya and Kashi, party functionaries familiar with the matter said.The directions were given when Shah, who arrived for a day’s visit in Varanasi on Tuesday, held a two-hour meeting with party office bearers of the two regions. During the meeting, the Union minister directed the leaders to prepare a list of projections of the party’s performance on each seat in both the regions. He asked them to classify all the seats as A (seats on which BJP’s win is sure), B (seats on which there is a fight) and C (seats on which the party is not in a strong position, and thus, need more attention), a functionary said on condition of anonymity.“Kashi and Ayodhya should be kept in the centre during campaigning,” the functionary quoted Shah as saying. The state government has undertaken various development projects in the two religious sites. While the construction of the Ram Temple is underway in Ayodhya, Prime Minister Narendra Modi on December 13 inaugurated the Kashi Vishwanath corridor to transform the pilgrims’ experience of the temple town. Shah also told the office bearers to ensure that a meeting of party workers was held in every mandal (area comprising several mohallas) in each Vidhan Sabha, as per schedule, and participation of booth-level workers in those meetings. “People from every section of the society should be connected to the party. Rallies must be held in the assembly constituencies and a good atmosphere should be created in favour of the party,” the functionary quoted Shah as saying.The home minister also said that booth level workers should hold regular talks with people in their areas and apprise them of the various schemes and developmental works carried out by the party in the state and at the Centre. Among those present in the meeting were BJP Kashi region president Mahesh Chandra Srivastava, in-charge Subrata Pathak, state co-in-charge Sunil Ojha, election co-in-charge Saroj Pandey, state vice president Laxman Acharya and Goraksh region president Dharmendra Singh. Prior to meeting office bearers, Shah held a meeting with Uttar Pradesh deputy chief ministers Dinesh Sharma and Keshav Prasad Maurya at the Circuit House, where he stressed on synergy between the government and the organisation (party). Samajwadi Party state spokesperson Manoj Rai Dhoopchandi said: “The double engine government of the BJP failed to carry out any development in Uttar Pradesh. That is why, the BJP have started talking about temples just before the election.”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/poll-campaigns-should-revolve-around-ayodhya-and-kashi-amit-shah-tells-partymen-101640782284739.html
30-12-2021||Chandigarh||Innovation index: Panjab University first among govt, aided universities||Panjab University (PU) has been ranked first for innovation among government and aided (state-run and deemed) universities under technical category in India, in the third edition of the Atal Rankings of Institutions on Innovation Achievements (ARIIA). Union minister of state for education, Subhas Sarkar announced the ARIIA-2021 results on Wednesday. The ranking has classified the participating institutions under two major categories - technical and non-technical. PU is followed by Delhi Technological University and Netaji Subhas University of Technology in the second and third places in the same category. Last year, the university had secured the second position among government and aided universities of the country. In the first ARIIA rankings released in 2019, PU was ranked ninth among the government-funded institutions and third among all Indian varsities.ParametersTaking the Indian innovation and start-up ecosystem in higher education institutions into account, various parameters comprising input, process, output, and outcome parameters are included in the framework. The major parameters include activities to promote and support innovation and start-up in the campus, pre-incubation and incubation infrastructures and facilities available in campus and research outputs; publications and intellectual properties generated.“Punjab University has a well-established Institution’s Innovation Council at University Institute of Engineering and Technology and University Institute of Pharmaceutical Sciences, cluster innovation centre, entrepreneurship development centre, design innovation centre, technology enabling centres, centre for skill development among other facilities,” a statement by the varsity read. PU’s director of Internal Quality Assurance Cell (IQAC), Ashish Jain, said, “It is not an overnight process but the result of cumulative efforts of the last three years when concentrated actions were taken for improving the innovation culture in the university. PU’s focus on incubation and promoting start-ups has increased in recent years.”PU vice-chancellor Professor Raj Kumar said, “Despite the record number of entries for Atal rankings this year, PU has topped the list among the state universities. This is the result of efforts put in by the faculty and staff of the university towards the campaign of innovation which we had started three years back.”Among the centrally funded technical institutions (CFTIs) and institutions of national importance, under the technical category, Indian Institute of Technology (IIT), Madras, has been ranked the best institute for innovation for the third year in a row. Among the self-financed/private universities, under technical category, Chitkara University was ranked second and Chandigarh University (CU) was ranked seventh. ARIIA-2021 saw unprecedented participation as compared to the earlier two editions. Of the 3,551 institutions registered, 1,438 institutions, including all IITs, NITs and IISc, participated, which is more than double as compared to the last edition and four times as compared to the first edition. 
