31-12-2021||Lucknow||Amit Shah says SP, Congress, BSP were against Ram temple construction in the past||Union home minister Amit Shah on Friday played the temple and development card while attacking the Samajwadi Party (SP), the Congress and the Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) at two public meetings in Ayodhya and Sant Kabir Nagar districts of Uttar Pradesh.Accusing the three parties of having made efforts in the past to prevent construction of the Ram temple, the Union home minister asked the gathering at Government Inter College Ground in Ayodhya to question former chief minister Akhilesh Yadav “what was the need to open fire on kar sevaks in Ayodhya?” The firing took place during the tenure of Akhilesh’s father Mulayam Singh Yadav as the UP chief minister in 1990.Amit Shah, who is on a whirlwind tour of Uttar Pradesh for 2022 assembly polls, also said, “Since ages, a large number of people have sacrificed their lives for the Ram temple in Ayodhya. But the temple never came up. Now, a magnificent Ram temple is being constructed at the birthplace of Lord Ram.”“Many efforts were made by the Congress, the SP and the BSP during their tenures to prevent the construction of the Ram temple. Do you remember who shot at the kar sevaks? They were thrashed badly, killed and thrown in the Sarayu river,” Shah said. “What was the need to open fire on the kar sevaks in Ayodhya? Ask Akhilesh when he comes here to seek votes,” Amit Shah further said as the crowd responded with applause. Continuing his attack, the Union home minister said: “Why did Ram Lalla have to stay in a tent for so many years? Who stopped Ram Navami celebrations and Deepotsav in Ayodhya?” Challenging SP, BSP and the Congress, Amit Shah stated that no one can stop the construction of Ram temple now. Making a similar pitch at a rally in Khalilabad (Sant Kabir Nagar), he said Samajwadi Party chief Akhilesh Yadav has no power to stop construction of the temple as Prime Minister Narendra Modi has laid the foundation of the Ram temple on August 5, 2020.In a few months, a grand temple will come up at the birthplace of Lord Ram, Amit Shah asserted.Staying on the temple theme, Union home minister also said at Sant Kabir Nagar that Prime Minister Narendra Modi constructed the Kashi Vishwanath Dham Corridor in Varanasi for the rejuvenation of the Kashi Vishwanath temple that was lying neglected since Mughal emperor Aurangzeb’s rule. The restoration and beautification of the Vindhyavasini temple has been also completed at Mirzapur, he further said.At the Ayodhya rally, Shah also attacked the Samajwadi Party over income tax raids in Kannauj district which is famous for perfumes. “The smell of corruption shows us how deep the roots of the SP’s sins are. When those roots are being attacked, why do you feel sick, Akhilesh Yadav?” said Shah. “Earlier, there was mafia raj in Uttar Pradesh. But today they are surrendering before police,” he said, adding that the Yogi government had freed the state from the clutches of the mafia. “There used to be three Ps at the time of SP government. Parivarwad (nepotism), Pakshpat (favouritism) and Palayan (exodus). However, the BJP government works on three Vs of Vikas (development), Vyapar (business) and saanskrtik Viraasat (cultural heritage),” the Union home minister said. Amit Shah also listed development projects of the Yogi Adityanath government, including five expressways, the Kushinagar international airport, AIIMS at Gorakhpur, the Ayodhya airport project and the under renovation Ayodhya railway station among others. He announced that a university in the name of Lord Ram would be constructed in Ayodhya. Waterways from Varanasi to Haldia through the Ganga has been completed and the DPR (detailed project report) for the Metro service in Gorakhpur is ready, he further said.Women and girls are safe in UP under the BJP government, Amit Shah said later at Sant Kabir Nagar.“People should give their blessings to the BJP in the 2022 assembly elections to make UP the number one state in the country,” he said.Farmers in East UP, known as the sugar bowl of the state, were at the receiving end under bua-babua (Mayawati- Akhilesh) governments, he claimed.In contrast, under the Modi and Yogi governments, the modernisation of 20 sugar mills was done, the rate of sugarcane and the price of sugar were increased, Amit Shah said.A total of ₹1.48 lakh crore payment has been made to sugarcane farmers and the loans of 86 lakh farmers were waived, he said. The home minister also said UP leads the country in Covid vaccination. (Uttar Pradesh is the first state in the country to administer 20 crore or 200 million Covid vaccine doses).Invoking Sant Kabir and Gautam Buddha, Shah said the massive crowd indicates the BJP will bag above 300 seats in the 2022 UP assembly elections.“I was associated with three elections in UP — 2014 (Lok Sabha), 2017 (assembly) and 2019 (Lok Sabha). In all the three elections, the voters in UP gave big mandate to the BJP,” he said.The Yogi Adityanath government has taken UP on the path of development and ended goondaraj in UP, he said. Earlier, the terrorists used to cross the border and kill jawans, but the Congress government that was in power did nothing, the Union home minister said, adding the Modi government gave a befitting reply to the Uri and Pulwama terror attacks by launching surgical and airstrikes across the LoC and the Pakistan border.Reacting to Amit Shah’s remarks, former UP minister Pawan Pandey, who had won the Ayodhya assembly seat for the SP in the 2012 polls, said, “In 2012, the Samajwadi Party won the elections, including the Ayodhya seat. This time also, the SP will win the state and Ayodhya as the people of the state and the temple town have made up their mind. And given the scenario, the entire BJP is rattled at the way Samajwadi Party is winning peoples’ support. This scare and frustration are making their top leaders make absurd statements and speeches.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/amit-shah-says-sp-congress-bsp-were-against-ram-temple-construction-in-the-past-101640971190652.html
31-12-2021||Other||Gurugram: Muslims offer namaz in open without disruption||Members of the Muslim community said they prayed in the open in Shankar Chowk, Udyog Vihar, Palam Vihar, and sectors 12, 29, 44, and 45 without any disruption on Friday, the first time namaz was offered without protests from right-wing groups in nearly four months.Some members of Sanyukt Hindu Sangharsh Samiti, an umbrella body of Hindu right-wing groups, which is leading the protests against namaz in open spaces, did gather at Shankar Chowk before the namaz congregation, but were turned away by police teams deployed at all the spots, police said.Rajiv Yadav, assistant commissioner of police, said that Muslims offered prayers peacefully on Friday. “Some members of the right-wing group gathered at one of the sites, but we warned them of action, following which they went away. Muslims gathered at seven sites, including Udyog Vihar, and offered namaz peacefully,” he said.On December 10, Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar had said offering namaz at public places cannot be tolerated, even as the district administration withdrew permission for Friday namaz at 20 designated sites amid protests by members of Hindu outfits who parked vehicles and organised programmes to prevent Muslims from offering namaz.
31-12-2021||Lucknow||Cong accuses Shah of misleading UP people||The Congress has accused Union home minister Amit Shah of misleading the people of state at the public rallies being organised “using the government funds in Uttar Pradesh”. Uttar Pradesh Congress Committee (UPCC) president Ajay Kumar Lallu said Shah and chief minister Yogi Adityanath were not focusing on the issues concerning the people and were discussing issues that had nothing to do with UP’s development instead. He said the people of state had made up their mind to vote out the BJP under Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra’s leadership.Lallu said Shah was speaking about nepotism, unfairness and migration though the BJP was going to allot 30 percent party tickets to family members of senior BJP leaders in the 2022 UP ass​embly elections. He said the Congress on the other hand had decided to allocate 40 percent tickets to women in Uttar Pradesh.He said the BJP led regime had led to rising unemployment and the youth would be compelled to migrate if the BJP formed government for one more time in Uttar Pradesh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/cong-accuses-shah-of-misleading-up-people-101640971131006.html
31-12-2021||Delhi||Two held in Delhi for impersonating policemen, robbing foreign national||Two men were arrested for allegedly impersonating policemen and robbing a 73-year-old Australian woman of ₹2,000 on the pretext of Covid-19 guideline violations in south Delhi’s Hazrat Nizamuddin area on December 29, police said on Friday. The stolen ₹2,000 was recovered from the arrested men, identified as Vakil, 30, and Badrinath, 28, both from Madhya Pradesh, they said.Additional deputy commissioner of police (southeast) Surendra Choudhary said that the two suspects were chased and arrested by a team of the Hazrat Nizamuddin police station that was patrolling the neighbourhood where the alleged impersonation and robbery took place. The crime took place outside the rented flat of the elderly Australian national.The foreigner whose name was withheld by the police is a retired Australian government official and is currently associated with a Delhi-based non-governmental organisation (NGO). The additional DCP said that on December 29, the patrolling team was near the gurdwara when they heard a woman screaming “chor-chor (thieves)”. The four team members rushed towards her and saw two men, dressed as policemen, fleeing the scene. They chased and caught the duo and began questioning them. At the same time, an elderly woman, who identified herself as an Australian citizen, arrived and alleged that the two “policemen” had robbed her of ₹2,000.“The foreigner told our staff that she was standing near the staircase of her rented house when the duo came and asked her to pay ₹2,000 as Covid challan for not wearing a mask. When she refused, the two forcibly took ₹2,000 from her and fled after pushing her. A case was registered and the two suspects were arrested,” said Choudhary.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/two-held-in-delhi-for-impersonating-policemen-robbing-foreign-national-101640971128792.html
31-12-2021||Delhi||Woman assaulted, gang-raped in Delhi gym||A 21-year-old woman was assaulted, threatened and gang-raped by two men--including her employer-- and a minor boy at a gymnasium in outer Delhi’s Budh Vihar on Thursday evening, police said on Friday.The two men were arrested while the 17-year-old boy was apprehended following raids at their possible hideouts in Delhi and adjoining states, police added.The arrested men were identified as the 39-year-old owner of the gymnasium and the 35-year-old owner of a factory where the woman works, the police said. A case of gang-rape, sexual harassment, assault, and criminal intimidation was registered under the Indian Penal Code’s sections 376D, 509, 323, and 506 against the three alleged suspects, said deputy commissioner of police (Rohini) Pranav Tayal.Police said the woman and her husband complained at the local police station on Thursday that she was assaulted and gang-raped by her employer and his two associates. She also accused them of threatening to kill her if she reported the matter to the police.The woman in her complaint said that on Thursday evening, she returned home after completing her day’s work at the factory. Some minutes later, her employer contacted her and asked her to come to his friend’s gymnasium for some cleaning work.“She alleged her employer and his two associates were already there. They locked the door from inside and forced themselves on her. They also assaulted her when she resisted their attempts. The trio threatened her with dire consequences before fleeing,” said a police officer, quoting the woman’s allegations.Police said that the woman was sent to a hospital for a medical examination and was discharged after preliminary treatment. A case was registered and the suspects were caught.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/woman-assaulted-gang-raped-in-delhi-gym-101640970648689.html
31-12-2021||Lucknow||Varanasi’s BLW makes record 45 electric engines in December||Breaking its previous record, Banaras Locomotive Work (BLW) has made 45 electric locomotives (train engines) in December. A total of 51 bogies were also been produced by BLW. BLW previous record was of producing 41 rail engines in a month. BLW public relations officer Rajesh Kumar informed that general manager Anjali Goyal dedicated the 45th electric locomotive WAG-9AG to the nation on Friday. The electric Loco bearing number – 41361 WAG-9HC— is a 6000-horsepower freight electric engine. Kumar said that the engine was sent to Kazipet Electric Loco Shed of South-Central Railway. Earlier, 41 locomotive engines were made in November 2020, which was the highest in a month, added Kumar. He said this month 51 bogies were manufactured in the workshop of the truck machine shop, which is the highest in a month. Before this, a maximum of 34 bogies were built in November 2020, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/varanasis-blw-makes-record-45-electric-engines-in-december-101640970409575.html
31-12-2021||Delhi||Nearly 700 red zones in Delhi sealed in 10 days to curb Covid spread||As Covid-19 cases increase in the national capital, authorities have sealed nearly 700 hot spots between December 20 and 30, showed data from Delhi’s district administrations.As on December 30, Delhi had 849 micro containment zones, up from 176 on December 20, according to the data.Also Read | Positivity rate up to 2.44%, city adds 1796 new casesContainment zones are sealed premises or areas that are essentially under a hard lockdown for a certain period, and are placed under increased surveillance by district teams. Essential goods are delivered to doorsteps, and these areas can be de-notified only if no new cases are added for 14 days.Delhi’s South district, comprising Saket, Hauz Khas, and Mehrauli, among other areas, has 402 containment zones — the highest among the city’s 11 revenue districts. The West district, comprising Patel Nagar, Punjabi Bagh, Rajouri Garden, and other areas, follows the South district with 108 containment zones. The New Delhi district, comprising Chankyapuri, Vasant Vihar, and Delhi Cantonment areas, has 86 containment zones, and the North district, comprising Narela, Model Town, and Alipur and other areas, has 70 containment zones.A South district official, requesting anonymity, said the number of containment zones is higher in the district because district authorities are trying to contain as many positive cases as possible to check further spread of the coronavirus. “Many containment zones have only one Covid-19 patient,” said the official.To be sure, all of the sealed zones in Delhi encompass no more than a few flats, in accordance with the state’s micro containment zone policy, as compared to the early days of the pandemic, when entire areas or lanes were shut.Densely populated districts have very few containment zones. The North-East district, one of the city’s most densely populated districts comprising Karawal Nagar, Yamuna Vihar, Seelampur, and other areas, had zero containment zones on December 30.A North-East district official said the district isolated Covid-19 cases, and there was not even a single cluster with three cases (needed to create a containment zone). “But we still created 20 containment zones, and as of December 31, the district has 20 containment zones. The containment zones work as a deterrent against home isolation violations,” said the official, adding that North East has one of the lowest caseloads.The East district, which has Gandhi Nagar, Mayur Vihar, Preet Vihar and other areas under it, has 11 containment zones and Shahdara has 32 containment zones. The Central district, which is also densely populated, has only 18 containment zones.A North district administration official said containment zones are created by sealing a particular area such as a flat, house, or floor after a patient tests positive for Covid-19 and is found fit enough to stay in home isolation. “The assessment is done by district health officials. In many cases, containment zones have been created even where only one person tested positive. Containment zones are created on a micro-scale to ensure that there is minimum inconvenience to those living nearby,” said the official, seeking anonymity.“Civil defence volunteers are deployed to check on violations in the sealed area. The district health teams get in touch with the patient and trace and test his/her contacts. In some cases, we have traced and tested up to 40 contacts. Most patients in containment zones right now are asymptomatic and are recovering in home isolation,” a health department official said on condition of anonymity.According to experts, during the first wave that swept through the Capital in March-April 2020, the first containment zones were created in Delhi’s overpopulated districts, but during the pandemic’s later waves, these areas reported fewer cases as well as a comparatively lower number of containment zones.Delhi’s first containment zone was carved out in Shahdara on March 26, 2020.Dr Sanjay Rai, professor, community medicine department at All India Institute of Medical Sciences, said the districts reporting a low number of Covid-19 cases right now had reported a high number during the first wave. “The first containment zone in Delhi was created in Shahdara, followed by the East district. These are densely populated areas where infection spread quickly, and people developed antibodies against coronavirus. Evidence has emerged that people who recover from mild Covid-19 develop antibodies which may last a lifetime,” Dr Rai told HT.Dr Rai added that a large number of people were infected with the coronavirus and recovered without even realising they were infected, and that ultimately shielded them against Covid-19. He said this was the reason behind these districts reporting a lower number of cases even during the second wave.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/nearly-700-red-zones-in-delhi-sealed-in-10-days-to-curb-covid-spread-101640969448480.html
31-12-2021||Delhi||Covid curbs and Metro woes: 50% capacity makes Delhiites find alternatives||New DelhiAs per the list of curbs in Delhi, which is under yellow alert, only 50% capacity is allowed in the Delhi Metro. And this has sent the regular metro commuters in a tizzy. Anticipating longer queues, Delhi-NCR residents say they had begun finding their way around, to ditch the extended commuting hours, as soon as the news came in. Curfew lead winter breakRupali Sagar, a Rohini-based dancer-choreographer who takes the metro almost everyday to reach her studio in Paschim Vihar, has now planned to give her students some time off. “Almost everyone in my dance class takes the metro, including me. In fact, I even take the metro to provide lessons to a few of my students at their homes. We have tight rehearsal schedules, but considering the now long queues that will be at metro stations, I’ve decided to give a winter vacation to all my students. Studentsbhi khush aur mujhe bhi Metro board karne ke liye battlefield jaisa experience nahi karna padega because the rush is going to get insane for sure,” says Sagar. Buffer time is a painA regular at the library at his college campus, Utkarsh Bhardawaj, a student of Ambedkar University, is now ruing about leaving his place early, to be able to reach in time. “The day the curbs were announced, there was a huge queue outside the Kashmere Gate Metro Station, which is the nearest to my university. Some of the entry points to check in were also closed. If this continues, it will add 30 to 60 minutes to my travel time, each side. So earlier if I was usually studying till 8.30pm, now I can’t wait that longer and risk getting stuck due to the curfew. I’m going to leave home early, to avoid the rush and subsequent delay,” he says. Husband to the rescue!Yashvi Sharma, who works with a city-based NGO, travels from Vaishali to Saket everyday via metro. But now, she plans to ditch the train. “I’ve started ditching the metro because it’s a big trouble for me to reach to work in time if only 50% passengers will be allowed at a time... Some days I could take a cab but not always because it will be an added expense to my budget. And before I enter or exit the metro, I’ll be asking my husband to pick and drop me. In fact, in a positive sense, this curfew curb will give us some quality time together, and our own version of a long drive,” adds Sharma. Carpooling, all the wayRaghu Kumar, a businessman who rides the metro daily from west Delhi to Chandni Chowk (Old Delhi), has identified a neighbour who can drop him near his shop. He says, “It’s necessary to have curbs, to stop a third wave from coming. In fact, this will make metro travel much safer now! But since it’ll be operational at half the capacity, it’s going to be a task waiting in serpentine queues outside the metro gates in dilli ki sardi. And I have to be home early, but I know I’d be stuck if I take the metro. So I’ve been using the charm to convince one of my friends, who takes his car to the market. For now he has agreed to tag along me, but this can’t be a long term arrangement. We’re desperately waiting for everything to get back to normal.”Author tweets @siddhijainnFollow more stories on Facebook and Twitter||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/covid-curbs-and-metro-woes-50-capacity-makes-delhiites-find-alternates-101640969336122.html
31-12-2021||Delhi||Chain-link fencing replaces barbed wires in Delhi’s Sanjay Van||The barbed-wire fencing around Sanjay Van has been replaced with chain link fencing by the Delhi Development Authority (DDA) to prevent animals from getting injured and facilitate free movement of wildlife in the premises. In 2019, activists had filed a complaint with the forest department about animals, such as nilgai, getting stuck in the barbed wires, causing them to get grievously injured or die in the process. In an order issued by the forest department dated December 27, 2021, the deputy conservator of forest (headquarters) said the deputy conservator of forest (south) took cognisance of the issue after complaints as well as the petition filed in the Delhi high court regarding animals getting injured due to the barbed wires were received by them. “A team comprising of officials from DDA, south forest division, and the horticulture department was constituted for the purpose of ascertaining and identifying the areas surrounded by barbed wire interrupting free movement of wildlife within the premises of Sanjay Van. In this regard, a field inspection was carried out and in light of this inspection, all barbed wire fencing has been removed from the said premises,” said the order.The order says chain-link fencing has been used in the plantation areas. However, all the barricading, which was restricting access to the water body earlier, has now been removed. Verhaen Khanna, founder of the NGO New Delhi Nature Society (NDNS), who had filed the complaint in 2019, said while removal of the barbed wire fencing was a welcome move, all fencing inside the premises should be removed completely, as even the current system of fencing will restrict animals’ access to the forested area. He also said the DDA, which installed the barbed wire fencing in 2019, was let off without being penalized, despite provisions in the Wildlife Protection Act, 1972, which mentions ‘hunting’ as capturing, killing, poisoning, snaring and trapping any wild animal or attempting to do so. “The problem with the previous fencing was that animals were getting stuck or were getting injured while trying to get through it. This new fencing will not harm them but restrict their access to the area. There was no fencing at Sanjay Van before 2019 and the same needs to be restored,” he said.A senior forest official on condition of the anonymity said the decision was taken to ensure animals could move more freely. “The new fencing has only been installed around plantation areas, to protect them from being trampled over. All other fencing has been removed,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/chainlink-fencing-replaces-barbed-wires-in-delhi-s-sanjay-van-101640968969016.html
31-12-2021||Lucknow||UP chief secretary orders special statewide drive to catch abandoned cattle||Chief secretary DS Mishra on Friday directed district magistrates to launch a statewide drive from January 1 to 10 to catch abandoned cattle and put them safely in cow protection centres. Holding a meeting here, he said there were reports that abandoned cattle were harassing farmers by damaging their crops in some districts. He asked DMs to launch a special drive to catch such cattle besides encouraging more people to adopt cattle under the government scheme. Mishra also suggested that a competition must be started between village pradhans and kshetra panchayat heads with a view to freeing village panchayats from abandoned cattle. He said pradhans and block chiefs found doing good work would be rewarded. He asked DMs to personally monitor arrangements with regard to fodder, water etc in the cow protection centres. Aspirational districts Reviewing the progress of transformation of eight aspirational districts (Baharaich, Balrampur, Chandauli, Chitrakoot, Fatehapur, Shrawasti, Siddharthnagar and Sonbhadra) in the state, the CS said the DMs concerned should organise field visits to obtain public feedback in these districts. He said the schemes related to health and nutrition should be implemented effectively to improve overall developmental ranking of these aspirational districts. Covid-19 Taking note of an increase in the number of Covid-19 cases in some districts, Mishra directed officials to step up the vaccination pace and activate vigilance committees. He said people whose second dose of vaccine was overdue must be contacted through the integrated command centre and asked to take the shot immediately. The CS also asked officials to create awareness among people through public address system and strictly enforce Covid-19 protocol in crowded places.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/up-chief-secretary-orders-special-statewide-drive-to-catch-abandoned-cattle-101640968848504.html
31-12-2021||Delhi||Delhi: North civic body seals four liquor outlets over ‘violation’||The latest action taken report released by the North Delhi Municipal Corporation on Friday shows that four more liquor shops have been sealed by the civic body citing violations related to unified building bye-laws and illegal constructions. The total number of liquor shops sealed by the north MCD now stands at nine while closure notices have been issued to 12 more units. Leader of the house in the north MCD Chhail Bihari Goswami said the shops, which have been sealed, are located in Jharoda, Phool Bagh in Ibrahimpur, Nathupura, DR Chamber commercial complex, Naraina Vihar Local Shopping Complex, main Bawana Road, Rohini Sector 17, Mangolpuri and Jwalapuri market in Paschim Vihar. “The units have been sealed for violating municipal norms with regard to building byelaws. The drive against liquor shops will continue in January,” said Goswami. The north MCD’s action taken report further states that in the case of the 12 shops which have been served sealing notices, either the deputy commissioner has granted time to the shop owners to close the establishment or action is pending in some cases due to non-availability of police force. From last month, the BJP led municipal bodies are carrying out verification drives to check for violations at the liquor shops that have been opened after the Delhi government rolled out its new excise policy on November 17 last year. All the three municipal corporations have also passed resolutions against the new liquor policy in December urging the Delhi government to take a look at the policy again and cancel licences for operating liquor shops in residential areas. Mayor of east Delhi municipality Shyam Sunder Aggarwal said so far, the civic body has sealed eight liquor shops while show cause notices have been issued to 70 units. “Our teams are checking the violations related to the Master Plan of Delhi 2021. Any property found violating the building byelaws is being sealed” he added. The South Delhi Municipal Corporation (SDMC) has so far sealed four liquor outlets in Kakrola, Nangli, Sakrawati and Rajapuri areas, all of which fall under the Najafgarh zone, said an SDMC official. The three civic bodies have sealed total 21 units so far.With municipal elections in Delhi just months away, the BJP led municipal functionaries are trading barbs with the AAP government over the new excise policy. The Aam Admi Party, which is the leader of the opposition in the MCDs, have maintained it is a tactic used by the BJP to divert attention from issues such as corruption and misgovernance. The BJP’s Delhi unit has said it will hold protests across the city on January 3 if the new excise policy is not withdrawn.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-north-civic-body-seals-four-liquor-outlets-over-violation-101640968728502.html
31-12-2021||Delhi||Kejriwal govt’s objections made GST Council defer hike on textiles: Sisodia||The GST (goods and services tax) Council meeting, chaired by Union finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman, on Friday deferred its decision to hike the tax on textiles from 5% to 12%, following objections from states and officials from the industry. The GST rate hike on textiles was to come into effect from 1 January.Soon after the Union government deferred the proposed hike on textiles, the Delhi government came out with a statement saying that the objections raised by the Kejriwal government against the proposed hike played a key role. The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) had demanded the rollback of the proposed hike, throwing their weight behind the lakhs of small traders who have been protesting against the increase in tax rates on textiles. Deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia said the Central government should pay special attention to the textile industry, which is one of the important pillars of the Indian economy. “Four crore people of the country are employed in this industry. This way, the industry is running 4 crore families. There are huge job opportunities in this industry. Food, clothes and shelter are the basic needs of every human being. Therefore,... the Niti Aayog should make a policy for the textile industry by taking the common man into consideration,” said Sisodia. “The Kejriwal government will oppose every decision that is not in the welfare of the common man... the proposed hike in GST of textiles will directly impact the common man...Currently, a 5% tax is charged for a piece of cloth worth ₹1,000...the government had announced to raise it to 12% in the coming year. This would have disrupted the budget of a common man,” added Sisodia.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/kejriwal-govt-s-objections-made-gst-council-defer-hike-on-textiles-sisodia-101640968308583.html
31-12-2021||Lucknow||UP forest department ready to provide plants for KV Corridor||Forest department is ready to supply saplings of Rudraksha, Maulshree, Ashok and Bilva to be planted at Kashi Vishwanath (KV) Corridor also known as Kashi Vishwanath Dham to ensure green cover, said a senior official of the department. As per plan, about 70% area of KV Corridor will have green cover for which pits have already been made on the premises. During inauguration of the KV Corridor on December 13, Prime Minister Narendra Modi had planted sapling of Rudraksha on the corridor premises. According divisional forest officer Mahavir Kaujalgi, the saplings were available at the nursery of the forest department and will be provided to Shri Kashi Vishwanath Special Area Development Board (SKVSADB) whenever asked for. “Plants of Rudraksha, Bilva and Maulshree will be made available for the KV Corridor as soon as SKVSADB administration asks for the plants. If there is need of plant of any other species, we will make them available too.” Plants of Parijaat will also be made available to the SKVSDAB, Kaujalgi added. He said, Maulshree tree provides thick shade and its flowers emit fragrance. It adds to the beauty of premises where it is planted. Rudraksha and Parijat plant are very important species and have their own importance. Kaujalgi added that training for proper care of the plants will be provided to SKVSADB personnel, if they want it.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/up-forest-department-ready-to-provide-plants-for-kv-corridor-101640968188809.html
31-12-2021||Delhi||Delhi govt to install 600 LED screens in prominent locations by end-2022||The expenditure and finance committee of the Delhi government has approved a proposal to install 600 LED screens, which will display graphic films, pollution data, social messages, health awareness campaigns, and information on government policies of public interest, at prime locations in the Capital by 2022. In the fifth meeting of the expenditure and finance committee chaired by deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia on December 22, the public works department (PWD) put up a proposal for installation of 600 LED screens at various locations in the city in phases at an estimated budget of ₹475.78 crore, shows government documents seen by HT. “The PWD submitted that the proposal is for installation of 600 LED screens for displaying graphics films, pollution data, social messages and information on government policies and other relevant information, such as awareness about the Covid-19 pandemic and Covid appropriate behavior,” said a senior government official aware of the matter. The LED screens will be installed at prominent locations on PWD roads more than 80ft wide, road intersections and T-points of roads with right of way above 80 feet or more, and entry and exit points of Metro stations having more footfall. “More priority will be given to roads which are between 100ft and 200ft and roads having heavy traffic volume and more footfall,” said the official. Four models – portrait screen with unipole structure, landscape screen with single display, tri-side display and cluster monitors in rectangular shape – will be used for fixing the LED screens. A command and control centre will be set up to run all the screens individually, in clusters or all at a time. “The data for display will be received at the central control room. After processing the same, the information will be displayed with the help of cloud services and global system for mobile communications network,” said the official.The cost component includes cost of LED screens, pole structure, comprehensive maintenance of LED screens and pole structures for seven years, and data consumption charges, electricity and rental charges of internet lease line. The pre-construction works have to be completed in three months and total nine months have been given to put in place the LED screens. The project has to be completed at the sanctioned cost and within the stipulated period and no cost escalation will be considered in future, said the official. According to the official, work is being carried out on priority basis to complete the project on time. “The tender for the project will be issued after obtaining the necessary routine approval from higher authorities,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-govt-to-install-600-led-screens-in-prominent-locations-by-2022-101640968008397.html
31-12-2021||Delhi||Delhi: DMRC completes first tunnelling drive on Phase 4 Metro corridor||The Delhi Metro Rail Corporation (DMRC) on Friday said it has completed constructing a 1.4km long tunnel at the Krishna Park Extension--the first ever tunneling stretch on the Janakpuri West – RK Ashram Marg corridor--with the help of a tunnel boring machine (TBM).The main tunneling work on the stretch commenced in April this year and met several constraints due to the Covid-19 pandemic and the associated lockdowns. The tunnel breakthrough achieved on Friday was done using a 73-metre long TBM, in the presence of DMRC’s managing director, Dr. Mangu Singh, along with other senior officials. Currently, two parallel circular tunnels are being constructed for up and down movement on this stretch, which is part of the 2.2km long underground section from Janakpuri West to Keshopur. DRMC officials said tunneling work on the other parallel tunnel will commence soon. “This new tunnel is a continuation of the Magenta line tunnel, which was constructed for the Botanical Garden – Janakpuri West corridor that is currently operational. The tunnel constructed is approximately 14 to 16 metres deep. Over a thousand rings have been installed in the tunnel. It has an inner diameter of 5.8 metres. The alignment of the tunnel runs along the Outer ring road...,” said Anuj Dayal, executive director of corporate communications, DMRC.Officials said the tunnel has been built using earth pressure balancing method (EPBM) technology, with concrete lining made up of precast tunnel rings. As part of the works approved in phase 4 of the Delhi Metro project, about 27km of underground lines will be constructed across the Janakpuri West-RK Ashram, Aerocity-Tughlaqabad and the Maujpur-Majlis Park corridors. The Janakpuri West – RK Ashram Marg corridor will have underground section of 7.74km. .||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-dmrc-completes-first-tunnelling-drive-on-phase-4-metro-corridor-101640967837155.html
31-12-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai reports over 5k cases||Mumbai Continuing the surge, Mumbai on Friday reported over 5,000 cases, a surge similar to that being reported during the second wave. The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) in a statement on Friday said that its seventh phase of genome sequencing results have revealed that 55% of the total 282 samples it tested had Omicron variant, followed by 32% Delta derivative and 12% Delta variant.In a statement, the BMC said, “Out of the total 282 samples, 13% were patients of Delta variant, 32% of Delta derivatives and 55% of Omicron variant. Out of 282 Omicron variants, only 17 patients had to be hospitalized.”The BMC statement added, “The age-wise classification of these 282 patients is 16% between the age group of 0 to 20 years, 35% in 21 to 40 years of age group, 28% between 41 to 60 years of age group, 19% between 61 to 80 years and 1 per cent 81 to 100 years.”On Friday, the city reported 5,428 cases taking the tally to 784,459 cases. The last time Mumbai reported this high a number was in April 2021. Further, one death took the toll to 16,376 deaths. The city’s recovery rate is 95% with 749,077 recoveries and the mortality rate is 2.08%. The city has 16,441 active cases.Dharavi, the city’s former hotspot, reported 34 cases of Covid-19, taking the total to 7,273. Further, no new Omicron variant cases were reported in the city. Till now, 327 cases of Omicron variant have been detected, however, not all are of those residing in Mumbai.As the number of cases increased in the city, the number of citizens under home quarantine also increased drastically, however, bed occupancy remained the same. From over 30,000 citizens under home quarantine before 10 days ago, now more than 80,000 citizens are under home quarantine. The bed occupancy rate has remained 2.57%, indicating that over 96% of the beds are available in the city.Meanwhile, Dr Shashank Joshi, a member of Maharashtra’s Covid task force, took to Twitter and said, “Today mostly have mild disease, no load on hospitals as of now but we need to be responsible, double mask and vaccinate.”The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) in a clarification issued on Friday said that restaurants, gyms, spas, cinema halls, and theatres will continue to operate at 50% capacity as per their license permission. This comes a day after restaurant and hotel owners complained of different timings being followed by Mumbai Police in different areas. The BMC clarified that liquor and wine shops can remain open till 11.30 pm and restaurants and bars till 1.30 pm.Further, the BMC in the statement on Friday said that 4,223 patients who tested positive on Friday were asymptomatic and 497 patients were hospitalized on Friday. Further, the bed occupancy rate is 7.8%, as of Friday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-reports-over-5k-cases-101640967708459.html
31-12-2021||Mumbai||Uran tehsildar files FIR against two for not allowing him to do his work||A top revenue official was abused and physically stopped from surveying the Panje wetland in Uran while an environmentalist was threatened with dire consequences if they continued their work.The revenue official, Uran taluka tehsildar, Bhausaheb Andhare, filed an FIR with the Nhava-Sheva police naming two people from Panje village who he said obstructed him repeatedly. Andhare said the issue concerned a demand for a cricket ground in the area.Andhare, along with environmentalists Debi Goenka and Nandakumar Pawar, had gone to Panje wetland to check if the State Government and the subsequent NGT orders for clearing the blocks at tidal water inlets were removed properly or not. CIDCO environment officer Pramod Patil joined them later.Panje villagers allegedly gheraoed the officials and argued that they would continue to block the free flow of tidal water to create a cricket ground.Andhare said, “It is not the issue of any wetland. This was a local matter concerning a cricket ground about which the locals were upset. I registered a complaint as per the process.”Last week, a local avid birder Parag Gharat was also threatened with death in the presence of environmentalist Debi Goenka.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/uran-tehsildar-files-fir-against-two-for-not-allowing-him-to-do-his-work-101640967648578.html
31-12-2021||Mumbai||Malavika’s Mumbaistan: First Things First||Like the first light of the sun’s rays that pierce through the darkness of the night and the first edition of a rare and wondrous book that you have been eagerly waiting to lay your hands on, or even like the first time ever you saw her face, today happens to be the first day of the year, the first promise of what lies ahead, your first handshake with 2022, and so, without much ado, first things first…May it bring you as much joy and delight as a first date; may it hold for you the promise of love at first sight; and through it, may you know happiness, peace, good health and fulfillment - first hand.After all, as they say, the first course of a banquet is supposed to be the most appetizing ; first impressions are generally considered to be the truest; the first step of a journey is supposed to be the most auspicious; to know something first hand is always the best way to comprehend it; first class is said to be the best way to fly and as any lover can tell you, the first cut is the deepest.***An attack with nuclear weapons designed to destroy the enemy’s nuclear arsenal before its use, is known as a pre-emptive first strike; a person whose job requires them to arrive first on the scene of an emergency, such as a firefighter or a police officer, is known as a first responder; the first shedding of blood in a boxing match or a duel involving swords, or the first point or advantage, gained in a contest such as a tennis game, is described as the drawing of first blood; ‘first do no harm’ is regarded as one of the principal precepts of bioethics, that all students in healthcare are taught in school; a first-time offender is a person who is convicted of a criminal offence for the first time, liable to get off lightly; but rest assured, a first-degree murder denotes the most serious category of the crime, and will certainly result in a life sentence.According to Hinduism, Manu and Shatarupa are said to be the first people on the planet; Adam and Eve are regarded as the first couple in Abrahamic religions such as Christianity, Islam and Judaism; Neil Armstrong was the first man on the moon; Albert Camus’ unfinished final novel was called The First Man; first lady or first man is an honorary title, borne by the spouse or partner of an elected head of state; the First Noel is one of the oldest known Christmas Carols ; Taylor Swift had one of her biggest hits with The Very First Night and Kylie Minogue -God bless her - still trills about Love At First Sight.***Meanwhile, ‘The order is rapidly fadin/ And the first one now/ Will later be last/ For the times they are a-changin’ sang Bob Dylan; ‘The beauty of any first time is that it leads to a thousand others..’ says Pico Iyer ; ‘Firsts are best because they are beginnings,’ wrote Jenny Han, ‘History repeats itself, first as tragedy, second as farce’ said Karl Marx; Mahatma Gandhi has been wrongly attributed for the saying ‘First they ignore you, then they laugh at you, then they fight you, then you win.’ and ‘At first I was afraid, I was petrified / Kept thinking I could never live without you by my side...’ said Gloria Gaynor - and all of them, when you think about it, were first rate, in their own way.And now that we’re on the subject : some of the most famous books in the canon of English literature like Mark Twain’s Huckleberry Finn, Harper Lee’s To Kill a Mockingbird, Herman Melville’s Moby Dick and Scott Fitzgerald’s The Great Gatsby have been written in the first person and some of Hollywood’s biggest blockbusters happen to be: First Blood; Captain America: The First Avenger; and X Men: First Class.***So it’s the first day of the year, a year hard-won and fraught; one that you have prayed and hoped for, and often despaired of even seeing; so first and foremost: may it bring the same promise of a first kiss to the lonely and unloved; may it call out to the lost and frightened by their first names; may it act like a first aid salve to the wounded and may it make the underdog and the loser the first among equals.Think about it: the first day of the year. Like the first blush of spring, the first fall of snow, the first words uttered by a baby, the first notes of an exquisite raga, or the first night for the newly wedded, may it be a portent of good things to come.So, first, put your best foot forward. At first you might experience a smidgen of trepidation, a tremor of anxiety, a shiver of nervousness; but do not be perturbed:That’s how first dates go…||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/malavikas-mumbaistan-first-things-first-101640967048538.html
31-12-2021||Mumbai||Drink doodh, not daru for New Year: NGO’s plea to stop drinking alcohol||Andhashraddha Nirmulan Samiti from Ambernath-Badlapur has initiated a unique milk distribution programme in some areas of the suburb on the night of December 31 and January 1. The group would distribute free milk to men to give them a message to stop drinking – ‘D for Dudh and not Daru’.Around 15 volunteers from the Samiti were standing at entry points of some areas in Ambernath and Badlapur, carrying a container of milk and urging men to get one glass of milk instead of drinking alcohol on the day.Shyam Jadhav, one of the Samiti members, said, “People celebrate on December 31 just to drink alcohol. It is a day of alcohol-drinking in the country instead of ushering in the New Year in a healthy way. Several families suffer because of the drinking habits of men. We have seen and read about accidents and untoward incidents on New Year’s Eve because of the inebriated state of the people. Therefore, to start the New Year with a good habit, we try to convince them to start the day by drinking milk instead of alcohol in the New Year. We are giving milk to every man who passes by the area.”The group distributed more than 100 glasses of milk on December 31 evening.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/drink-doodh-not-daru-for-new-year-ngo-s-plea-to-stop-drinking-alcohol-101640966748486.html
31-12-2021||Mumbai||Father arrested for beating son to death for stealing Rs50 from wallet in Kalwa||Kalwa police arrested a 38-year-old man on Thursday for beating his 10-year-old son to death for stealing ₹50 from his wallet. The father beat him up with different objects on Wednesday night and the boy fell unconscious. The father later wrapped him in a blanket and left him unattended till the next day.According to the police, the accused was identified as Sandip Prajapati. Some residents called the police and informed them that a man had beaten the boy. On Thursday night, police went to Waghoba Nagar Chawl, opened the house when they met a younger sister of the deceased who narrated the incident to them and showed her brother wrapped in the blanket. He was immediately taken to the hospital, where he was declared dead before admission.M Awhad, senior police inspector from Kalwa police station, said, “The boy’s sister and neighbours were informed that the boy stole ₹50 from the father’s wallet. The father caught him and started to beat him till he fell unconscious. The boy suffered from severe head injury after the accused banged his head on some object. There are four members in the family including the boy. The mother is mentally unstable while the father is a welder and the sister is six years old. After the incident, the accused was roaming in the city without fear. Our team of officials started searching for him and arrested him from Waghobha Nagar under IPC 302.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/father-arrested-for-beating-son-to-death-for-stealing-rs50-from-wallet-in-kalwa-101640965608571.html
31-12-2021||Dehradun||Uttarakhand govt hikes old-age, widow pension from ₹1,200 to ₹1,400||The Uttarakhand government on Friday increased the old-age pension and widow pension from ₹1200 to ₹1400.The decision was taken at the cabinet meeting which was held earlier today.The Pushkar Singh Dhami-led government, in the cabinet meeting, also decided to give maternity leave to the guest female teachers.Apart from this, the state cabinet has also taken the decision to establish a law college in Tehri Garhwal's Narendra Nagar.The cabinet has also taken a decision to exempt the property tax for 10 years on the houses constructed in the areas expanded by the municipal bodies.The Uttarakhand is slated to go to the Assembly polls next year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/dehradun-news/uttarakhand-govt-hikes-old-age-widow-pension-from-rs-1-200-to-rs-1400-101640963455844.html
31-12-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai beaches, gardens closed to public from 5 pm to 5 am||Mumbai: Police on Friday issued a fresh order under Section 144 of the Criminal Procedure Code, imposing prohibition on visiting public places during the night. The order prohibits people from visiting beaches, sea faces, promenades, open grounds, gardens, parks and other public places between 5 pm and 5 am the next day. The order issued by deputy commissioner of police Chaitanty S (Operations) states that Greater Mumbai continues to be threatened with the Covid-19 pandemic in view of the increase in the cases and emergence of Omicron variant of the Coronavirus. The notification will continue to remain in force till January 15. It also warns people not to violate the notification issued by the Maharashtra government on December 30 under provisions of the National Disaster Management Act, 2005 by which new restrictions have been imposed on attending public and private functions like marriages and other gatherings. The notification has restricted the maximum number of attendees to 50 in case of all social, political, cultural or religious gatherings and marriages, irrespective of whether the programs are held in closed premises or on open grounds, and to 20 in case of funerals. The order under Section 144 adds that any person flouting the rules shall be punishable under Section 188 of the Indian Penal Code, 1860 and penal provisions of the Epidemic Diseases Act, 1897 and National Disaster Management Act, 2005. The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) has by its December 24 order imposed complete ban on gatherings for new year celebrations and also prohibited New Year eve parties, functions and gatherings in hotels, restaurants, clubs, resorts, bars. The order also specified prohibition of any rally, morcha, procession etc of any person or vehicles within the jurisdiction of Mumbai police.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-beaches-gardens-closed-to-public-from-5-pm-to-5-am-101640964288162.html
31-12-2021||Mumbai||Demand for Covid self-test kits shoot up in Mumbai||Mumbai The rapidly increasing cases of Covid-19 in Mumbai have led to an increase in the demand for self-testing kits. Chemists in the city said the demand has started over the past week after a lull of several months. “Since the past four days, we have sold 50 to 60 kits every day,” said Jayantilal Dagha, owner of the Mahavir Medical in Chakala. “Before that, we were selling about three-to-four. Many corporate offices have mandated these tests for the employees who are coming to work. There has been a lot of demand from nearby offices,” he said. The self-testing kits available in the market are rapid antigen kits that give out the result in less than 30 minutes. Rapid antigen tests have higher chances of false-negative results. Thus, doctors warn that a negative result from a self-test should not be considered confirmatory, and a RT-PCR (Reverse Transcription Polymerase Chain Reaction) test should be undertaken. However, a positive result could be considered as a confirmation of Covid-19. The self-test kits, available over the counter in chemist shops, contain a sterile swab, disposable bag, a prefilled extraction tube and a test card. The suspected patients are required to insert the swab stick in both their nostrils, then dip the swab into the extraction tube and put a few drops of the liquid from the tube onto the test card. The test provides a negative or a positive result with the help of the control lines on the test card. As many as seven self-test kits have been approved by the Indian Council of Medical Research including Coviself by Mylab, CoviFind by Meril Diagnostics, PanBio by Abbott among others. The cost of these kits ranges between ₹250 to ₹350. “We had stocked CoviFind and Coviself for some time now, but there was hardly any demand for them. Suddenly, in the past 10 days, the demand has increased,” said Kamlesh Bhatia, owner of Bhatia Medical in Santacruz. “We are selling five to 10 kits every day,” he said. According to Hakim Kapasi, a member of the Andheri Chemist Association, most of the pharmacies did not stock the self-test kits because of lack of demand. “Now, everyone is calling for stocks,” he said. The companies have also seen a surge in demand. “Due to the increase in Covid-19 cases, we have witnessed a 200% jump in sales of our self-test kit, CoviSelf, in December compared to November,” said Hasmukh Rawal, founder and managing director of Mylab Discovery Solutions. “Maharashtra, West Bengal, Rajasthan, Delhi and Andhra Pradesh are the top states where the demand for our kits is high,” he said. Infectious disease expert Dr Anita Mathew from Mulund’s Fortis Hospital said that self-test kits are a great tool if used judiciously and responsibly. “A positive self-test can help in immediately alerting the patients, but people who do self-tests should declare their positive results, follow isolation protocol and behave responsibly. The problem arises when many don’t follow these steps,” she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/demand-for-covid-self-test-kits-shoot-up-in-mumbai-101640963688043.html
31-12-2021||Ranchi||J’khand sees sharp spike, MP, MLA test positive||The Jharkhand government on Friday urged people to observe New Year celebrations at home, amid the exponential rise in fresh Covid-19 cases over the past one week, which includes an MP and an MLA among those infected. The government, though, has decided not to impose any restrictions in festivities and other economic activities for now. “We are not imposing any restrictions but we urge people not to got out and celebrate New Year at home as the number of Covid cases has started increasing. We have also directed deputy commissioners of districts to ensure testing at picnic spots and ensure people wear masks,” state’s health minister Banna Gupta told reporters after attending a review meeting on Covid preparations chaired by chief minister Hemant Soren. Though no confirmed case of the new variant Omicron has officially been reported in Jharkhand, the state has recorded 1,119 cases in four days from December 27. Within a week, fresh Covid cases have been recorded from across 18 of the 24 districts in the state. As per the latest medical bulletin, 482 cases was reported in the state on December 30 alone, of which 246 were reported in state capital Ranchi alone. In its latest communique on Wednesday, union health secretary Rajesh Bhushan had also directed the state government to take all necessary action to contain the virus spread in Ranchi, officials said. On Friday, two elected representatives, Ranchi MP Sanjay Seth and Barkagaon MLA Amba Prasad, confirmed they had tested positive for Sars-Cov2 “After cough and cold, I got myself tested. I have tested positive for Covid-19 and have isolated myself in home isolation. Request all who came in contact to get themselves tested,” Seth, a BJP MP, said in a tweet. Prasad, a Congress MLA, said she was presently in home isolation with “mild symptoms”. On preparations to contain the possible third wave of coronavirus, health minister Gupta said direction has been given to increase testing. “We have set a target of conducting 1 lakh tests daily. Directions have also been given to check the status of hospital beds and status oxygen plants. We are also aiming to complete first dose of vaccine for all by January 15,” said Gupta. The health minister said a meeting of the state disaster management committee is likely to be held next week to review the situation and take decisions on restrictions as required.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ranchi-news/jkhand-sees-sharp-spike-mp-mla-test-positive-101640963330793.html
31-12-2021||Patna||26-yr-old Patna resident is Bihar’s first Omicron case||A 26-year-old resident of Patna’s Kidwaipuri locality has tested positive for the Omicron variant of Covid-19, the first case in the state of the fast-spreading variant in the country, health officials said. He had visited the national capital last week to meet a relative, who came from abroad, said officials. The relative had tested positive for Covid-19 a day after the youth returned to Patna. He is presently under home isolation and the area has been declared a containment zone, said officials. Chief minister Nitish Kumar on Friday said that Omicron infection has started in the state and has asked people to be careful and follow Covid-19 norms. “At present, Bihar does not have an Omicron test facility. The report comes from Delhi,” Kumar said. “There will be a meeting on conducting of genome sequencing for Omicron test in Patna.”Covid-19 cases have shown a spike in Bihar over the last few days.The state reported 132 cases on Thursday, of which 60 were from Patna and 46 from Gaya, taking the total number of active cases to 333. Patna topped with 158 active cases, Gaya 92 and Munger 21. The state had reported 77 new Covid-19 cases on Wednesday and 44 on Tuesday. “The Covid-19 cases in the state are increasing at 1.6 times a day over the last couple of days and we have to be careful,” said Sanjay Kumar Singh, executive director of the State Health Society, Bihar. “We have activated our Covid control room in each of the 38 districts. We have sufficient number of general and oxygen beds in our Covid care centres dedicated hospitals,” Singh said. The state has a total bed capacity of 19,383 for Covid-19 patients, of which 5,527 beds were with empanelled private hospitals. The remaining were in state-run facilities, said an official. As on Thursday, a total of 28 Covid beds were occupied in the state. As many as 305 Covid-19 patients were under home isolation. The state has also scaled up its oxygen capacity to 448 metric tonnes, said Kumar Ravi, officer on special duty in the health department. Of this, 140 metric tonnes were to be generated through 121 pressure swing adsorption (PSA) oxygen generation plants across the 38 districts of the state and 308 metric tonnes of oxygen through cryogenic liquid medical oxygen tanks at 10 state-managed medical college hospitals. 
31-12-2021||Patna||Looking ahead: Amid political flux, Bihar hopes for better education, health care||Bihar will hope for a turnaround in its fortunes after a difficult 2021 when it had to struggle with the double whammy of second wave of Covid-19 pandemic with huge migration and annual scourge of floods, which took a heavy toll on a state that has perennially remained at the bottom of development ladder on virtually all important indices despite its consistent 10% growth story.Though Bihar’s progress over the last 16 years cannot be dismissed — it has far better road connectivity, round-the-clock power supply and significantly higher per capita power consumption and infrastructure growth — but it is mostly in the context of where the state stood prior to 2005. Political perception With his party JD(U) becoming a junior partner for the first time in the ruling alliance in Bihar, chief minister Nitish Kumar’s status has certainly taken a hit. Despite still heading the NDA government, Kumar is showing apparent discomfort, especially in the face of an increasingly assertive RJD combine as the Opposition and a strangely cold ally BJP. Kumar has once again begun raising the “special status” demand for the state, to which BJP appears cold this time, while RJD has been playing it up. In fact, RJD leader Manoj Jha even moved a suspension of business notice in the Rajya Sabha to discuss the issue. Another thorny issue testing the alliance will be caste-based census. To further test the alliance will be the five Rajya Sabha vacancies — two each of BJP and JD-U and one of RJD — and 24 seats of the Legislative Council to be filled from the local bodies. According to social analyst DM Diwakar, contrasting signals may be part of politics, but they don’t augur well for governance. “Bihar would hope for greater clarity in the new year. A large number of positions in the boards and corporations lying vacant also don’t send right signals,” he says. “The alliance is strong and delivering. Partners may have their own issues, but there are no differences,” said BJP state president Dr Sanjay Jaiswal.Prohibition Liquor ban has been a major challenge for the government from the day it was imposed on April 5, 2016. The challenge has only grown over the years with continued smuggling of liquor and increased availability of narcotics substances despite prohibition being the prime agenda. The year 2021 saw opposition and the ruling alliance partners equally critical of it and demanding review. On December 28, Chief Justice of India NV Ramana waded in, calling the prohibition law an example of “lack of foresight” in drafting legislation, which leads to mounting court cases,which is a statistical fact. “Prohibition in theory and liquor smuggling in practice to encourage a parallel economy cannot go together. The government must make a realistic assessment in the wake of CJI’s observation,” said RJD MP Manoj Jha. Health care concerns While 2021 exposed Bihar’s health infrastructure, with even old medical college hospitals not having proper arrangement for oxygen supplies, 2022 begins with another scare and growing number of cases. How the government deals with the potential third wave will be keenly watched. Though Bihar has been doing well on vaccination front, rapid improvement in heath infrastructure that the government has claimed will be put to test. “The government is fully prepared for third wave, should it come. We are already taking precautionary measures,” said health minister Mangal Pandey. Educational scenarioBihar did well in the school education sector in the beginning in improving access and virtually ending gender disparity with the much talked about cycle scheme for girls. School infrastructure also improved. The quality of education, however, has remained poor with lack of teachers in various subjects and erratic schooling. Poor intake in seriously understaffed and struggling higher education made it a vicious cycle that the state is finding hard to move out from, resulting in huge migration of students. Now Bihar has a number of premier national institutions of higher learning, but the state needs to have its own colleges and universities in order. At present, none is in the top 100 of the NIRF ranking. The frequent row over corruption at the top in academic institutions has only made things worse. The year 2021 saw, for the first time, a vigilance raid on a serving vice chancellor and state education department staying away from Raj Bhawan function. Hopefully, higher education will turn a new leaf with both the Raj Bhawan and the government working together for a common cause. Also, huge vacancy of teachers and school heads will also be filled in 2022 and recruitment of assistant professors in colleges will pick up pace. “The appointment letters of elementary school teachers shall be issued on February 25, 2022 after proper verification of documents. Camps to be held in block and district headquarters,” said additional chief secretary (education) Sanjay Kumar. CM as ChancellorThe new year will see the setting up of three new universities in which the CM will be chancellor, contrary to the tradition of Governor as the ex official chancellor of state universities. The new institutions with CM as the chancellor are Bihar Health Sciences University, Bihar Sports University and Bihar Engineering University. All three may see appointment of vice chancellors soon. Earlier, engineering and medical institutions were part of the Aryabhatt Knowledge University, but in the changed set-up, with CM at the helm, one should hope for the better. Bihar has already been late in setting up engineering colleges. Though the government has started quite a few, the All India Council for Technical Education (AICTE) has extended the ban on new engineering colleges till 2024 due to low enrolments, falling demand and quality concerns. Bihar will need to improve the existing ones. “The three new institutions will be functional in 2022,” said a senior education department official. Vacancies in HCAfter a long wait, the Patna High Court got eight judges, while four were transferred to the state and one was transferred out. However, the court is still barely near the halfway mark of its sanctioned strength of 53 judges. Add to it the mounting load of cases due to prohibition and disruption due to pandemic and the scenario demands the HC to function in full strength. It was after a long wait that Patna HC got so many judges, as its strength at one point had dropped to one-third, and one would hope the same tempo of appointments to continue in the new year. “The year 2021 saw several judges being appointed and we hope more will come in 2022. Pending cases are a genuine concern,” said former additional solicitor general SD Sanjay.Unemployment Bihar has huge demographic dividend, but in the absence of quality education and employment opportunities, it threatens to become a demographic disaster. According to 2018 report of the sample registration system (SRS), the working age population (15-59 years) increased from 57.2% to 59.7% between 2013 and 2018, but due to lack of opportunities, the state continues to witness increased migration. Unemployment was a big poll issue in the 2020 Assembly elections and it will remain a big challenge for the state devoid of big industries and companies. The SRS report says Bihar is the youngest state with 57.2% population below 25 years of age. “Making the youth employable is the key to state’s fortunes. Else, it could turn out to be counter-productive,” said DM Diwakar, former director of AN Sinha Institute of Social Studies.
31-12-2021||Mumbai||Cops seize MD worth ₹ 2.53 cr ahead of New Year festivities||Navi Mumbai What could have been a mega night at high-profile parties was busted by unit 3 of the Crime Branch of Navi Mumbai, with the arrest of three persons who were trying to sell MD (methaqualone powder) to organisers of New Year parties.According to the police source, the drug was to be delivered to the farmhouse belonging to high-profile people in Panvel. MD drugs weighing 2.5 kg worth ₹2.53 crore was seized by the accused. Police Commissioner Bipin Kumar Singh informed the media on Friday that the police also raided the factory in Poynad, which was started by the accused to make MD. The factory was then sealed by the police.Among those arrested in the operation, Kalim Rafiq Khamkar (39), Zaki Afroz Pittu (33) and Subhash Raghupati Patil (40) have been identified. Senior police inspector Shatrughn Mali of unit 3 had received information about an accused coming to Nere village of Panvel to deliver drugs on Thursday evening. Crime branch unit 3, Anti-Narcotics Cell and Human Trafficking Cell jointly set a trap and arrested Khamkar. The police found MD powder weighing 1.1 kg in a plastic bag in his car and hence seized the car and the drugs and also arrested him. He was later interrogated by the police, who informed that he had started a factory in Poynad area of Alibag Taluka in Raigad with the help of two other accomplices to manufacture MD powder. On the basis of this information, the police raided the factory at Poynad and found MD powder weighing 500 grams each in the possession of Pittu and Patil. Also, 500 grams of MD powder was found in the dryer machine of the factory. Therefore, the police confiscated the MD powder as well as the machinery used for making the drug and sealed the factory.“The accused Patil, who was arrested in the case, had studied BSc Chemistry and was working in a chemical company. It was there that he learned about making drugs. Investigations have revealed that he started an MD powder factory at Poynad with the help of his accomplices, around two months ago after he quit his job at a chemical company a year and a half ago,” Mali said. “This is the first time that a factory manufacturing MD drugs has been seized that too just before the New Year eve,” Singh said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/cops-seize-md-worth-2-53-cr-ahead-of-new-year-festivities-101640962967946.html
31-12-2021||Mumbai||Thane traffic cops use Google Maps to deal with traffic crisis in quick time||In order to respond better and faster to traffic-related crisis in Thane city, the Thane Traffic Police have started using Google Maps to track the traffic situation in real time. The initiative, which was started in October 2021, has drastically reduced police’s response time, leading to fewer and shorter traffic jams.According to Thane Traffic Police officers, the initiative was started after lengthy brainstorming sessions following a spate of traffic jams observed in the monsoon. Crucial roads like Ghodbunder Road and the Mumbra Bypass witnessed heavy traffic congestion almost every day due to multiple reasons. These included frequent breaking down of vehicles, accidents, terrible road conditions and double parking on busy roads. Thane Guardian Minister, Eknath Shinde, had announced a slew of measures at the time including parking lots for heavy vehicles during the hours that they are prohibited.Officials said that one of the ideas discussed during this time was the possible use of Google Maps, which shows traffic conditions on the roads in real time. The website shows roads in various colours depending on how heavy the traffic is, with the red colour signifying the heaviest and slowest moving traffic on the road.“In October 2021, we set up a video wall of four 55-inch screens in our control room in Thane, where we started tracking traffic in the city 24/7. Every time the website showed a road highlighted in red, we would contact the nearest beat marshals via the wireless radio system and instruct them to visit the spot to find out the reason behind the traffic jam,” DCP (Traffic), Balasaheb Patil, Thane City, said.The police found that traffic jams were mainly caused by three reasons; arguments between motorists, accidents and vehicle breakdown. Over the next three months, the police observed that all these three issues could be addressed better if their personnel got to the spot faster.“In cases of arguments, most motorists quickly go their separate ways as soon as they see a policeman approaching. In cases of accidents, we were able to quickly provide medical help to the injured and take action against the offender. In instances of vehicles breaking down, the lighter ones could be pushed aside manually, which is the case most of the time, and cranes could be quickly called for where the vehicles are heavier. In all such cases, getting to the spot fast automatically helps resolve the situation speedily,” Patil said.He added that three months down the line, the initiative has shown tremendous results. “Earlier, we had to wait for someone to inform us either by calling the control room or telling one of our personnel on the streets. By using Google Maps, we no longer have to wait for someone to tell us about a traffic jam. Our response time, which earlier used to be an hour or more, has now dropped down to ten minutes in most cases. Consequently, traffic jams, too, have become shorter in duration, with many of them being nipped in the bud before they could become worse,” Patil said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/thane-traffic-cops-use-google-maps-to-deal-with-traffic-crisis-in-quick-time-101640962493517.html
31-12-2021||Pune||Maha Cong president to visit Jnana Prabodhini on Saturday||PUNE: Congress state unit president Nana Patole first official event in the New Year is a visit to Jnana Prabodhini, an organization affiliated to the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS), in Nigdi on Saturday. Patole will be later visiting Bhima Koregaon and Malegaon. The Congress leader’s visit to Jnana Prabodhini, as per the release issued by the Maharashtra Pradesh Congress Committee, has raised eyebrows in political circles. While Patole remained mum on the issue, local Congress leaders also avoided to speak on the topic. As per Patole’s January 1 programme, he will be arriving at Jnana Prabhodhini at 10.30 am and have a one-hour interaction with teachers and students. He will visit Bhima Koregaon and remain present for salute of Vijaystambh event. In the evening, he will be going to Malegaon in Nashik district to attend the Congress party’s meeting.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/maha-cong-president-to-visit-jnana-prabodhini-on-saturday-101640961707148.html
31-12-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra sees huge spike of 8,067 Covid cases, logs 4 new Omicron infections||Maharashtra marked the last day of the year with yet another massive spike in single-day cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) after 8,067 people tested positive for the virus, according to the state health bulletin data. Of the fresh cases, Mumbai accounted for 5,428 infections - a surge of 1,757 from Thursday's 3,671. The cumulative tally of the state has climbed to 66,78,821, the health bulletin data showed.The state also confirmed four fresh cases of the Omicron variant of Covid-19, taking the overall tally to 454. Of these, a total of 157 patients have already recovered following a negative RT-PCR test report.Also Read | All cases of fever, bodyache to be tested for Covid: Centre lists 8 symptomsThere, however, has been a visible dip in the daily fatalities due to the virus as eight patients succumbed to Covid-19 as opposed to the 22 logged on the preceding day. The death toll due to coronavirus in Maharashtra stands at 1,41,526.Mumbai also reported a fresh death due to coronavirus, after seeing no fatality the previous day, thus taking its toll to 16,376.The new Omicron cases in Maharashtra has pushed India's tally to 1,342 with the western state remaining the lead contributor, followed by Delhi at 320. Kerala and Karnataka also reported fresh cases of the new strain of Covid-19 during the day with 44 and 23 infections, respectively. Bihar also added a single case to the nationwide tally after detecting its first Omicron case.The consistent surge in single-day coronavirus cases in Maharashtra amid the Omicron outbreak, which the World Health Organisation (WHO) has classified as a “variant of concern” and termed as highly transmissible, is a sign of concern.Also Read | Sharp increase in Covid cases in 3-4 days, situation concerning in 22 districts: CentreIn wake of the Omicron spread at the time of festive weeks of New Year's Eve and New Year's day, the Maharashtra government has announced a slew Covid-19 restrictions. These include ban on gathering of more than five people between 9pm and 6am. Furthermore, Section 144 of the Code of Criminal Procedure (CrPC) has been extended in Mumbai till January 15. Earlier, it was imposed till January 7.Mumbai Police has banned people from visiting beaches, open grounds, gardens, parks and other public places between 5pm and 5am. A prohibition is also in place on public gatherings for New Year and on parties in any closed or open spaces, including bars, clubs and restaurants till January 7.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-sees-huge-spike-of-8-067-covid-cases-logs-4-new-omicron-infections-101640958795081.html
31-12-2021||Mumbai||Sessions court rejects Kangana Ranaut’s plea for transfer of Akhtar’s complaint against her||Mumbai: A sessions court in Dindoshi on Friday dismissed an appeal by actor Kangana Ranaut against an order by an additional chief metropolitan magistrate refusing to entertain her plea for transfer of lyricist Javed Akhtar’s defamation proceedings against her to another court.Akhtar filed the defamation complaint against Ranaut last November for allegedly making defamatory and baseless comments against him in a television interview in 2020 in the context of actor Sushant Singh Rajput’s death. Kangana had called Akhtar, part of a certain gang of Bollywood. Ranaut had moved the transfer plea alleging that she did not have faith in the 10th court. She stated that the court was insisting on her personal appearance without any sufficient reason and order which could have justified her compelling appearance in the case, involving a bailable, non-cognizable and compoundable offence. “This court is threatening the accused on every date of issuing an arrest warrant without giving any sufficient cause,” said her application.Kangana’s application called the order ‘grossly erroneous’ and sought that the court set it aside and direct the transfer of the proceedings to any other court. The defamation proceedings are on in an Andheri magistrate court. The plea had been rejected with the court finding that the Andheri magistrate had acted judiciously and was not biased as alleged. It had called the actor’s allegations vague and held that she failed to make a concrete case to show that her apprehension is reasonable.Advocate Jay Bharadwaj who had argued for Akhtar had opposed the revision petition and had said the CMM court orders had been passed after considering all the facts and circumstances which did not warrant any interference. The actress has altogether wilfully absented herself on 11 hearings before the magistrate court out of which six hearings were regular hearings where exemption applications were moved and allowed and five hearings pertained to the period when Covid-19 SOPs exempted the personal appearance of the parties.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/sessions-court-rejects-kangana-ranaut-s-plea-for-transfer-of-akhtar-s-complaint-against-her-101640961587916.html
31-12-2021||Delhi||A moderate but skewed recovery||The year 2020 was perhaps the worst ever for the Indian economy. Thanks to a 68-day nationwide lockdown from March 25, 2020 onwards, imposed to prevent the spread of the Covid-19 pandemic, economic activity went into a tailspin. India’s Gross Domestic Product (GDP) suffered an annual contraction of 24.4% and 7.4% in the quarters ending June and September 2020. Annual contraction in 2020-21 GDP was the largest ever: 7.3%. The large-scale disruption (and its favourable base effect in the subsequent year) made sure that unless there was yet another catastrophic event, growth rates would increase drastically in 2021, especially from the June quarter onwards. The second wave of Covid-19 — it peaked on May 9 in terms of seven-day average of daily new cases — was the kind of the catastrophe even statisticians discount in their calculations. While the second wave was far more severe in terms of infections and deaths, the economy was spared to some extent because there was no national lockdown. This made sure that the second wave’s disruption and sequential recovery, as tracked by some high-frequency indicators, was better than what was seen in the first wave. This is one of the biggest reasons why headline growth numbers are not expected to be good. However, a simple comparison of GDP growth rates — Reserve Bank of India’s projection of a 9.5% growth in 2021-22 over a 7.3% contraction in 2020-21—can give a misleading picture of recovery. An example makes this clear. If India’s GDP was 100 in 2019-20, it fell to 92.7 in 2020-21 and is expected to rise to 101.5 in 2021-22. The recovery is not as good as it sounds. Even if the Indian economy had grown at 4% per year — this was the growth rate in 2019-20 and the lowest since 2008-09 — in 2020-21 and 2021-22, GDP in the latter year would be 108.2. A higher GDP translates into higher per capita incomes for the population. That the Indian economy has strayed from its long-term growth trajectory because of the pandemic’s impact — the International Monetary Fund (IMF) slashing India’s potential growth rate from 6.25% to 6% is the most important institutional recognition of this fact — is just one part of the story. What is more important, and is still not properly understood due to the lack of adequate data at the moment, is the difference in how the pandemic affected the rich and the poor, both at the level of firms and households. Anecdotal accounts offer what can be described as circumstantial evidence. Corporate profits, for example, have been rising at a fast pace even as inflation is chipping away at real wages. This suggests that the poor have suffered far more than the rich because of the pandemic’s disruption. A direct reflection of this can be seen in different metrics of economic sentiment. RBI’s consumer confidence index is still far below pre-pandemic levels, while the Price-to-Earnings (PE) multiple for BSE continues to be at high levels. In fact, there is growing consensus (to be sure, there are differing views too) on the fact that even if there is no disruptive third wave — the exact threat assessment from the Omicron variant of Covid-19 is still being understood at the time of writing this piece — it is the pandemic’s distributive impact which might have most important consequences for the economy’s long-term prospects. It is the non-rich who spend a greater part of their incomes or what is called marginal propensity to consume by economists. That RBI’s Monetary Policy Committee (MPC) held in December 2021 has not made upward revisions to its growth forecasts for quarters ending December 2021 and March 2022 despite a higher-than-expected GDP growth in the September 2021 quarter supports this line of argument. What has muddied economic waters even more in 2021 is the multifaceted impact of inflation. First there is the “terms of trade” or relative price effect in India. Non-food inflation has been rising at a much faster rate than food inflation. This means that prices of receivables for farmers are increasingly lagging behind the prices of payables. This is bound to put a squeeze on their purchasing power, and hence the rural component of aggregate demand. It needs to be remembered that agriculture was the only sector which escaped a contraction in 2020-21, thereby providing a critical cushion to the economy. Agriculture growth might still be high in 2021-22 but with “terms of trade” worsening, the demand cushion might not be the same. In 2021, there was also lingering uncertainty in international commodity markets because of pandemic-related concerns. Demand outlook for a whole lot of commodities; crude petroleum being the most important, can change drastically depending on the state of the pandemic in the world. And nobody knows at the moment with a reasonable degree of confidence what the latter is going to be. Brent crude prices have fluctuated widely in 2021 from a low of US$ 50.37 on January 4 to a high of US$85.76 on October 20 before falling to US$ 71.52 on December 20. Uncertainty about petroleum prices also means that the tension between fiscal prudence and inflation/demand will not end in 2021. The central government has made large windfall gains in petroleum taxes both in 2020 and 2021, and this has been accompanied with a sharp spike in fuel inflation. The year 2021 also saw a supply-side aspect to the inflationary uncertainty, largely on account of disruption in global value chains. Not only did it lead to rise in prices; most white goods and automobiles have become significantly more expensive, there is also a supply constraint in the literal sense of the term. This has emerged as an important headwind even for demand from the rich. Unless the Omicron variant of the Covid-19 virus leads to a sharp spike in the caseload trajectory, 2022 will not have any surprises on the economic front. To be sure, there is a possibility of downward revision in the GDP numbers for 2020-21 as informal sector numbers are incorporated. What needs to be observed though is whether or not the gap in momentum of recovery between the have and have-nots reduces. If that does not happen soon, there is a real possibility that the formal sector could lose growth momentum as well, especially when pent-up demand component of the rich has dissipated. 
31-12-2021||Kolkata||BCCI chief Sourav Ganguly discharged from hospital||BCCI President Sourav Ganguly, who was diagnosed with Covid-19 on December 27, was discharged from hospital on Friday afternoon. He will remain in home isolation, hospital authorities said. “Ganguly was discharged from the hospital today. He is clinically stable and will remain in home isolation,” said a statement issued by the private hospital, where he was admitted. A medical board comprising Dr Saroj Mondol, Dr Saptarshi Basu and Dr Soutik Panda in consultation with Dr Devi Shetty and Dr Aftab Khan was keeping a close watch on the health condition of the former Indian cricket captain, the hospital said. His samples were sent for genome sequencing. He was released on Friday after the reports of genome sequencing revealed that he was not affected by the highly transmissible Omicron variant of the Coronavirus. At least 16 Omicron cases have been reported from West Bengal till date, while the daily count of Covid-19 cases in Kolkata and across the state has shot up over five times since Monday. Kolkata reported 204 Covid-19 cases on Monday while on Thursday the number of cases jumped to 1090.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/bcci-chief-sourav-ganguly-discharged-from-hospital-101640960087671.html
31-12-2021||Mumbai||Navi Mumbai gearing up to vaccinate 15-18 yrs age group against Covid||The Navi Mumbai Municipal Corporation (NMMC) is now bracing up to vaccinate its 15-18 years age group with Covid vaccination following the Prime Minister’s announcement.For the convenience of all the children in this age group, the corporation is planning to have the vaccinations at all schools.“School is the most convenient place for the children to get vaccinated. They are already going to schools and if we make arrangements for them to get vaccinated there, they would be spared of going anywhere else,” Abhijit Bangar, NMMC commissioner, said.Even those who have dropped out of school or have never gone to school can also visit the nearest school for the vaccination, Bangar added.“We are also planning to have a jumbo facility for the purpose of vaccination for this age group,” Bangar said.During the third wave, treating patients below 18 years was said to be a major challenge as none from that age group was vaccinated. “We have good coverage of vaccination. More than 85% are completely vaccinated. Moreover, we are having door-to-door as well as mobile vaccinations at markets and railway stations in order to vaccinate the maximum population. We have enough doses to vaccinate everyone including the 15-18 years age group. Besides, we have 110 centres ready wherein vaccination drives are already happening,” Bangar said.An estimated 72,000 children are eligible for vaccination between 15 and 18 years.Till now, 12,26,410 have taken their first dose while 9,63,666 have taken their second. In the age group of 18 to 45 years, 8,20,190 have got their first dose while 6,14,306 have got their second. A total of 9,225 have got vaccinated via mobile vaccination programme that includes 2,108 who got the first dose and 7,117 got their second.Through ‘har ghar dastak’ programme, 51,241 got vaccinated including 17,584 who received the first dose and 33,657 received second. A total of 15,320 have got vaccinated through the railway station vaccination programme including 3,517 who received the first dose and 1,17,567 who received the second.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/navi-mumbai-gearing-up-to-vaccinate-15-18-yrs-age-group-against-covid-101640958587616.html
31-12-2021||Mumbai||Thief arrested by Vashi GRP for robbing railway commuters||A 27-year-old thief who used to rob railway commuters of their wallets and mobile phones was arrested by the Vashi GRP on Thursday.According to the police, the accused, Aman Bhanupratap Singh of Vashi, used to roam on the platforms and snatch wallets and mobile phones from commuters who stood near the doors.Vishnu Kesarkar, senior inspector of Vashi GRP, said, “We had arrested one of Singh’s accomplices earlier in December and he gave us details about Singh. After technical analysis of those details, we finally caught Singh on Thursday morning. With his arrest, four crimes registered in our jurisdiction have been detected so far.”Another senior officer said, “Apart from Navi Mumbai, Singh was operating at a few places in Mumbai such as Chembur, Mankhurd and Govandi. So, his arrest will help us solve more crimes in the next few days.”The police booked the accused under section 379 (punishment for theft) of the Indian Penal Code. He was produced before the judicial court and has been remanded to police custody for two days. 
31-12-2021||Mumbai||From 5 to 500 Covid vaccination centres, Thane district has come a long way||Started with five vaccination centres, Thane district caters to more than 500 centres daily within a year.A year ago, when the vaccination drive began, hardly 2,300 people were vaccinated on the first day. Now, more than 50,000 are being vaccinated daily. From facing hesitancy, reluctance and strong opposition in rural parts of the district to get vaccinated to reaching a phase where there was shortage of doses, from seeing serpentine queues outside vaccination centres to reaching a phase where officials had to introduce mobile vaccination centres and other special facilities, Thane district has seen a tumultuous year with regards to vaccination.Overall, the district has managed to complete administering around 1.09 crore doses. This includes 62.41 lakh first dose and 45.56 lakh second dose of vaccination. From among these, Navi Mumbai Municipal Corporation (NMMC) was among the first to complete 100% first dose vaccination and has also managed to vaccinate more than 85% of its target population with the second dose of the vaccine.Meanwhile, Thane Municipal Corporation (TMC) has managed to vaccinate only 75% with the first jab and 50% of its target population is fully vaccinated. The Kalyan-Dombivli Municipal Corporation (KDMC) isn’t far behind with 73% completing the first dose and 61%, the second dose from among the target population. “In the beginning, rural areas showed much reluctance with rumours floating around on social media and lack of awareness. Hardly any came forward to get vaccinated. Moreover, when a few got fever post vaccination, the fear among the villagers increased. We indulged in various awareness programmes by roping in local NGOs and Asha workers to educate about vaccination,” said Manish Renge, health officer, Thane Zilla Parishad.Now, there are school students who are involved in educating their families. The Zilla Parishad is using children to make an emotional appeal to get vaccinated. Similarly, in TMC, certain densely-populated areas like Lokmanya Savarkar Nagar, Kalwa and Mumbra areas saw a very few getting jabbed.“We set up mass vaccination drives in these areas and conducted door-to-door surveys to understand the number of people who have not been vaccinated. We are also addressing those who have taken the first dose to also take the second dose of vaccination. Although they are due, many are ignorant about getting a second jab,” said Dr Prasad Patil, immunization officer, TMC.Meanwhile, NMMC is preparing to complete 100% vaccination within a month. “In the last one year, we saw a few months of extreme hesitancy and some months with lack of doses. Both were not permanent phases and now again we are noticing a rise in the number of people coming forward to get vaccinated. Every time the cases increase, more and more people step forward and get vaccinated. We are presently providing vaccination in markets and railway stations as well,” said Abhijit Bangar, NMMC commissioner.Ganesh Doiphode, in-charge of KDMC vaccination, said, “Our complete effort is to fully vaccinate the citizens. Compared to earlier days, now we have around 54 centres after having started with only four. Also, the door-to-door survey initiated by us is helping in finding people who have not taken a single dose. There are those who refuse to get jabbed, which our team is tackling through continuous follow-ups.”In May and June, with the lack of vaccine doses, there were serpentine queues to get vaccinated. Now, with ample doses in hand, there are hardly a few who visit the vaccination centres.“This is the reason we are going to the remote hamlets and providing vaccination. Our team visited a remote village in Shahapur district, and many civic bodies have also conducted camps within their jurisdiction to reach out to the locals,” said a medical officer from Thane district.“The district overall has managed to complete 85% vaccination. We still have to cater to the tribal pockets in the district. There are many initiatives taken like providing vaccination during holidays and in the evenings as well to cater to the rural areas. Compared to the initial phase of vaccination around seven months ago, we have sufficient vaccine doses with us and accessibility for the locals to vaccination centres has increased. Earlier, when only an online booking facility was available, it was not easy for the rural population to follow the processes. Hence, many from urban areas came to the rural pockets to get vaccinated. There was a fight among locals and outsiders. However, with more than 500 vaccination centres and mobile units, we have managed to come a long way. Now, the focus is on the remote, rural population within the district,” said Rajesh Narvekar, Collector, Thane district.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/from-5-to-500-covid-vaccination-centres-thane-district-has-come-a-long-way-101640958528372.html
31-12-2021||Mumbai||Commuters urge Central Railway to run more trains on Nerul, Belapur, Kharkopar line||The residents of Ulwe and its peripheries are inconvenienced as the Central Railway (CR) has not been running sufficient trains on the Nerul-Belapur-Kharkopar line.The trains on this line ferry the commuters to Nerul and Belapur stations alternately and thereby give access to trains on the harbour line (Panvel-CSMT). However, the CR is running very few trains on that line.Presently, the first train leaves Kharkopar for Nerul at 6.30am and then there is no train for the next one hour and fifteen minutes. The second train leaves Kharkopar for Belapur at 7.45am while the third train leaves Kharkopar again for Nerul at 8.25am after a 40-minute gap.Shruti Mane, a 31-year-old resident of Ulwe, said, “I have to reach my office at BKC every day at 8.30am and I travel up to Kurla station by train. The first train is too early for me, but I also cannot reach the office on time by boarding the second train. So, I take the first train and thus end up wasting around half-an-hour daily. I know many others from my neighbourhood who are facing the same issue.”Vikash Puri, 45, another Ulwe resident, said, “In the evenings, one train leaves Belapur for Kharkopar at 7.57pm. After that, the next train leaves for Kharkopar from Nerul at 8.55pm. Therefore, for most of the time, we have to travel in autos by paying exorbitant fares. Taking our inconveniences into consideration, the CR should run a few more trains here.”Bhakti Dave, president of Panvel Pravashi Sangha, said, “As per the norms, trains on any line should be available for every four minutes. We understand that CR too has limitations. But a gap of one hour and fifteen minutes is too long. They should think of increasing the number of trains as early as possible.”Shivaji Sutar, chief PRO of CR however, said that they don’t have any plan to increase the number of trains on that line for now.“On December 1, we revised the time table and increased the number of trains on that line during peak hours. Now in the peak hours, the trains are available every half-an-hour. But we don’t have any plan to provide more trains in the mornings, evenings or during the day,” he said.Sutar also refused to explain the reason behind not providing more trains during those hours.The Nerul-Belapur-Kharkopar line is the first phase of the Nerul-Belapur-Uran Corridor. The work of the second phase is now going on and around 75% work has been finished so far.
31-12-2021||Mumbai||2.55L motorists penalised for violating norms on Expressway||The State Highway Traffic penalised as many as 2,55,920 motorists for different violations on the Mumbai-Pune Expressway in Raigad district (between Kalamboli and Khalapur) in 2021. They collected ₹21.03Cr fine from the violators in the entire year, a senior officer said.According to the police, a total of 1,72,605 motorists were penalised for over-speeding alone while 83,315 others were penalised for violating the other norms such as lane-cutting, not wearing seat-belts, talking on mobile phones while driving among others.Subhash Pujari, assistant inspector from the State Highway Traffic said, “Our officials were deployed on both Mumbai-bound and Pune-bound carriageways of the Expressway from time to time and they checked if any motorist had flouted the norms. Whenever they spotted someone over-speeding, cutting the lanes, or talking on phones, they stopped him or her and penalised them on the spot.”Lane-cutting has been identified as one of the main causes of accidents on the Mumbai-Pune Expressway.“The Expressway has three lanes on each side of the divider. The first lane (the one adjacent to the divider) is for overtaking. The second lane is for light vehicles and the third lane is for buses and other heavy vehicles. However, most of the motorists do not follow the rules. They randomly enter the unauthorised lanes and end up hitting vehicles moving ahead of them,” Pujari said.“Our main objective behind conducting such drives was to bring discipline to the movement of the vehicles on the road. Most of the accidents on this road occur because of human errors and overtaking is one of them,” he added.“The Expressway has dividers, guide boards for motorists and there is no mistake in its construction. Analysing some of the recent accidents, we have understood that speeding and overtaking are the reasons behind a majority of the accidents. Therefore, it is necessary to take such requisite measures to curb the menace,” another police officer said.
31-12-2021||Mumbai||Narayan Rane wins round one against Sena, says will work to oust MVA||Mumbai After winning a prestigious battle against the Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA) in the elections to the Sindhudurg district cooperative bank, union minister and senior Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader Narayan Rane said that they would now work on ousting the MVA from power in the state. “Now, we are not in power in the state. This has eluded us by a whisker. Maharashtra needs a good chief minister and a good government. Today, there is no chief minister. Hence, a developed state is heading towards anarchy,” charged Rane, while launching a broadside at his bete noire and chief minister Uddhav Thackeray. Rane’s younger son Nitesh, who is a BJP MLA from Kankavali, had been booked in an attempt to murder case after the assault on Santosh Parab, who was among those leading the charge of the MVA in the district bank polls. A local court had rejected his anticipatory bail plea on Thursday and Nitesh is still missing. Nitesh had faced flak from the Shiv Sena after he had mimicked the sound of a cat when environment minister Aaditya Thackeray, who is Thackeray’s son, was entering the state legislature building during the recently concluded winter session. Speaking to reporters on Friday at Kankavali in Sindhudurg district after the results were announced, Rane, who is the union minister for micro, small and medium enterprises, attacked the state government and said that the law enforcement machinery and the police were used in an attempt to secure a victory. Polling for the district central co-operative bank was held on Thursday, and on Friday, the BJP won 11 of the 19 seats. Shiv Sena leader Satish Sawant, who was the outgoing chairman of the bank, polled the same number of votes as his BJP rival Vitthal Desai. Desai was declared the victor after a draw of lots. The polls had an electoral college of 900, including voters representing co-operative bodies, urban credit groups, fishermen credit groups, and salaried employee credit groups, and also individuals. Meanwhile, the Rane camp was also jolted after BJP district president Rajan Teli lost to Sushant Naik, the younger brother of Shiv Sena MLA from Kudal, Vaibhav Naik. In 2014, Vaibhav Naik had emerged as a giant killer by defeating Rane senior, who was then in the Congress and a minister in the Prithviraj Chavan cabinet. Shiv Sena leader and former minister Deepak Kesarkar acknowledged their loss. “A victory is a victory, and a defeat is a defeat,” said Kesarkar, who is an MLA from Sawantwadi, adding that the BJP had marshalled its resources to influence voters.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/narayan-rane-wins-round-one-against-sena-says-will-work-to-oust-mva-101640957567459.html
31-12-2021||Chandigarh||Channi calls BJP real enemy of Punjab||RAMPURA (BATHINDA): Chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi on Thursday called the Bharatiya Janta Party (BJP) the “real enemy of Punjab” indicating political discomfort among the Congress leadership after several politicians are joining the saffron party ahead of the Punjab assembly polls.At an election rally in Rampura Phul segment, Channi gave a call to Congress workers to get united to take on the BJP strongly. It was probably the first occasion in the last few weeks when the CM spoke against the BJP.After the repeal of the contentious farm laws, the Punjab Congress leadership has been focusing attacks on the principal opposition the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) and the traditional rival Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) as the BJP was not seen as a formidable front in the state.“Punjabis should remember the BJP-led Union government’s role in introducing the black farm laws,” the CM said.Channi also targeted former CM Captain Amarinder Singh for partnering with the BJP. “They (BJP and Capt) worked against the interests of Punjabis and it must not be forgotten,” said the CM.Channi projects himself as CM face A day after head of the Congress’s campaign committee Sunil Jakhar said that the party would contest the next elections without any CM face, Channi appealed for support to hold the top post for the next five years.Channi urged people to vote for the Congress in the forthcoming elections to mark their approval of his three-month stint as the CM.“AAP leaders from Delhi are appealing for a chance to rule in Punjab. You tested Akalis and Captain as well. Now, people should audit the performance of my government’s tenure and cast vote for inclusive development and welfare,” said the CM.Channi backed incumbent Congress legislator from Rampura Phul Gurpreet Singh Kangar, who was dropped as a cabinet minister in September after Captain’s exit, as the Congress nominee from the segment.“Kangar was always a key supporter of Amarinder whereas I was among the opponents of the ex-CM. A capable leader like Kangar deserves to represent the constituency again. He should be elected again to make position stronger for governance term for five full years,” the CM appealed at the event.CM faces protestAuthorities faced an embarrassing situation after a section of gathering, including women, protested near the place where Channi addressed the gathering. Police had a tough time controlling the protesters demanding job regularisation.After arriving at the venue, Channi immediately ordered the police to remove barricades and allow people to sit in the space secured for security near the stage. Soon a large number of people reached and started raising slogans as the CM began his address.Infuriated, the CM ordered the police to remove the protesters from the rally area.“I will not tolerate obstructionists. My government cannot be held to ransom and such organisations cannot gain my sympathy. We have assured governance in a fair and transparent manner and there is no space for such an attitude,” he said.The CM announced ₹10 crore grant for the overall development of Rampura Phul constituency. He also announced upgrade of the civil hospital and opening a trauma centre. He laid the foundation stone for two ITIs and a flyover between the railway station and Geeta Bhawan road. Channi also dedicated a new building of Veterinary Science College constructed at a cost of ₹105 crore.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/channi-calls-bjp-real-enemy-of-punjab-101640953486984.html
31-12-2021||Pune||Global Village Idiot: Of dusk, baked potatoes and rest||I had been starting to wonder if we would have a winter but then a deluge in early December changed everything. Everything, including the prospects of a good harvest for winter crops. The week after the deluge saw chilled winter weather with mist-shrouded mornings, smoky days with occasional weak sunshine, and grey foggy evenings. It’s still like that to an extent. The temperature is too hot for my liking but this is as close to a proper winter as we can get in Pune nowayears. Especially the smoky dusk. I have just finished cooking dinner, sort of. There was a bunch of Dill leaves (Shepu) which was kind of getting ready to go from green to yellow sitting in the refrigerator. Usually we make Aloo-Shepu but it seemed too much to have potato again. So, I pan-fried some boneless chicken breasts with red chilly seeds, Dill leaves, salt and fresh Himalayan garlic from Uttarakhand. I plan to serve slices of the chicken with butter rice. Butter rice is great by itself with lemon and green chilly. All habits from childhood. There is something about dusk that makes me peaceful. It’s the relative stillness I guess. Even on regular days, with the shrill cacophony of city traffic, the intensity of an urban life, and the never-ending deadlines of the digital age, I like taking a walk every evening on the terrace to block out everything and just focus on the natural phenomenon of the sunset, watching wisps of smoke rise from households in nearby slums as folks start preparing their dinner. Watching dusk is also a childhood habit like many things - tranquil and chaotic - are with me. From my annual visits to Varanasi, Delhi or Shimla, I remember the smell of coal on the mud oonoon (Bengali for choolah, the traditional clay-stove) as my grandmother baked rotis and finished making the Daal and vegetables for dinner. My Kaka (uncle) used to deep-fry tiny fish in a massive kadhai on another oonoon. She used to cook in the open courtyard just before dusk set. I used to sit and watch and wait with my younger siblings. Most of them were too young then to have a memory of those evenings. We used to wait because she used to bake little baby potatoes in the ashes underneath the main fire. And once they were done, she would take them out, dust them thoroughly, sprinkle with salt, gesture us to stay quiet (since her children-my father and uncles and aunts-also loved the little potatoes), and then hand over five each to us. It was a thrill! I still recall, clearly, the smell of the coal-baked potatoes and the peace of the setting sun, a gentle breeze always at hand to temper even the most sizzling of Indian summer days or spice up the coldest of winter days. Immediately thereafter, we would wash our hands, feet, and face at the chou-baachchaa (a rustic water trough) and then follow her into the living room for the evening prayers, which is always at Sondhe (Sandhya or dusk). The family would sing bhajans accompanied by harmonium and cymbals and tiny prayer bells and then off to dinner. Dinner was always a lively affair around the choolah. We would sit on aasans (cloth mats) placed on the red brick floor. The warmth from the oonoon was supplemented by a small wood-fire and the solitary halogen lamp on the verandah. There would be recounting of the day’s work and activities, with adults reporting to my grandma and kids chattering. Bad reports were always reprimanded, good results were always rewarded with gudh (jaggery) or coconut naadoo (a small laddoo). After dinner, lights off and bed time stories and eventual sleep, with my grandma always placing her cool palm on my forehead (she always said my head was hotter than most people!), soothing the day’s fatigue off the brow and recounting a story about her childhood and her household and bringing up the children and the earlier, impoverished days. Stories and experiences I never forget because it is the story of many Indian families. Some have taken a generation to move towards relative middle-class stability. Some take two. Some stay in poverty. But we are always moving forward, inch by inch, in adversity and in good times, always under the same sun. Standing here today, listening to the chatter from the tents and tarpaulin covered hutments below, I am doing what I have always done: watching the sky change as the sun sets. The birds do not chirp in the immediate aftermath of dusk because dusk is a reminder to wind down and to rest and restore the natural balance of our systems. On the other hand, dusk is the dawn for nocturnal beings. Bats are heading out from their dwellings. Soon, the other night creatures will begin their day. The city sounds are now intruding upon my reverie. Lights are on. Traffic is snaking it’s way along roads, bylanes and the distant highway - I can make out from the headlights and horns. It’s going to be a cool night. And maybe we will have another beautiful misty morning tomorrow. If I take a broader perspective, winter dusk is quite like the year-end. As the year winds down, there is a nostalgia of the days gone by and a rising anticipation of the year to dawn. There is a stillness in time as I consider (within a few minutes) the year gone by. And that reflection evokes some emotion (satisfaction, remorse, anxiety, elation, joy) and after giving it due thought, I make peace with the year, remind myself that tomorrow is a new day, a new year and that I have the chance to do things differently or stay steady, generally to live another day, plan another year. It’s odd that the last day of the year should have such significance, when in all reality it’s just another dusk giving way to just another night which in turn will merge into just another morning. There is something about the year-end that makes me peaceful. It’s the relative stillness I guess. Mukherjee, author, learning-tech designer and management consultant, is founder of Mountain Walker and chief strategy advisor, Peak Pacific. He can be reached @ thebengali@icloud.com||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/global-village-idiot-of-dusk-baked-potatoes-and-rest-101640947666400.html
31-12-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana court blast: Woman cop who was bomber's aide suspended from duties||The senior superintendent of police (SSP) in Punjab's Khanna city on Friday suspended a woman cop, who was in a relationship with alleged bomber of Ludhiana court blast case Gagandeep Singh.The woman cop was posted as a constable in the office of superintendent of police (SP) in Khanna. She is currently being questioned by the National Investigation Agency (NIA) as well as the Punjab Police in connection with the blast.Investigation has so far found that Singh was a former policeman, who was dismissed from duty in 2019 after being held in a drug peddling case and later sent to jail for two years. At the time of his dismissal, he was posted as a head constable at a police station in Khanna. He was released from prison in September this year.Meanwhile, a money trail has been discovered in Singh's bank account in which it was being credited with ₹3 lakh in the second week of December, in instalments. The bank employee with whom Singh, who was at the time of the blast a cloth trader, in touch, has also been questioned. The woman cop, however, has maintained that she didn't hand him the money.Notably, the blast took place on December 23 at the Ludhiana district court complex, situated close to the police commissionerate office. In the incident, Singh died while five others were injured. The bomb went off near the washroom of the building's second floor, which comprises eight courtrooms.Punjab police chief Siddharth Chattopadhyay said that Singh, who have “very good technical skills”, had assembled the bomb inside the washroom. He added that the alleged bomber met some people, including Khalistani elements and drug smugglers, during his time at the prison.“We have strong leads that Pakistan-based, pro-Khalistani narco-terrorists are behind the blast,” Chattopadhyay said last Saturday.The NIA on Thursday lodged a first information report (FIR) against Jaswinder Singh Multani, a member of the banned Khalistani outfit Sikhs for Justice (SFJ) and the prime suspect in the blast case, along with some others, as part of the investigation into a larger conspiracy for attacks in Indian cities, Hindustan Times reported earlier in the day.He was detained by German authorities in Erfurt in the central part of the European country earlier this week on India's request. Multani, 45, has been charged with criminal conspiracy, carrying out war against India, and under the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act in the FIR.It is suspected that the explosion was carried out at Multani's behest, who allegedly made arrangements for the logistics remotely using his contacts in Pakistan.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-court-blast-woman-cop-who-was-bomber-s-aide-suspended-from-duties-101640940514209.html
31-12-2021||Mumbai||‘Covid cases likely to cross single-day peak during 2nd wave in Mumbai’||New Covid-19 cases in Mumbai are likely to cross the single-day peak of 11,206 during the second wave of the pandemic this summer, the city’s civic body has said based on growing infections since December 22. The city’s Covid-19 Task Force has alerted the state and civic health authorities to expect a “very large” third wave driven by the Omicron variant of the disease.“The Omicron variant is on its way to becoming the predominant strain in Mumbai, and perhaps the rest of the state,” said Shashank Joshi, a member of the task force. “Given the nature of this variant, we are heading for a very large third wave.” He added the exponential doubling rate of cases is an indicator of the large third wave.On Thursday, Maharashtra recorded 5,368 Covid-19 cases, a 38% jump from Wednesday’s 3,900. Mumbai reported 3,555 cases on Thursday, a 45% jump from the previous day. The city also accounted for 66% of the state’s cases.The state’s Omicron case count has touched 450, of which 198 cases were detected on Thursday. While a majority of the Omicron patients have a history of international travel or are contacts of travellers, some have no travel history. Joshi said this suggests that the variant is in the phase of community transmission.Also Read | Maharashtra announces fresh curbs after massive spike in new Covid cases, 450 Omicron infectionsMunicipal commissioner Suresh Kakani said they were anticipating a larger third wave. “However, we also anticipate that the rate of hospitalisation will be low.” He added they were on alert.The state health department has stuck to the third wave projections drawn in July, which estimated that Maharashtra was likely to see 1.25 million active cases during the peak of the third wave. This is 1.5 times more than the active caseload of nearly 700,000 during the second wave.“Back then, we anticipated 65% of the patients will require home isolation, while 35% will need hospitalisation. However, the Omicron variant suggests that the percentage of hospitalisation could be much lower,” said Satish Pawar, additional director, National Health Mission, Maharashtra. “All districts have been asked to prepare for an active caseload of 1.5 times more than the second wave. We believe that these estimates will apply for the current scenario as well.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/covid-cases-likely-to-cross-single-day-peak-during-2nd-wave-in-mumbai-101640946646415.html
31-12-2021||Mumbai||Section 144 in Mumbai extended till January 15 in view of rising Omicron cases||Section 144 of the Code of Criminal Procedure (CrPC) that bans the gathering of five or more people has been extended till January 15 in Mumbai in view of the new Omicron cases that are doubling on a daily basis.The Mumbai Police also prohibited citizens from visiting the beaches, open grounds, sea faces, promenades, gardens, parks or similar public places from 5pm to 5am.Mumbai Police had earlier imposed Section 144 in the city from December 30 to January 7.The Brihanmumbai Corporation (BMC) has also imposed a complete prohibition on New Year's celebrations, parties in any closed or open space including restaurants, hotels, bars, pubs, resorts, and clubs from December 30 to January 7.The capital city of Maharashtra witnessed a 46 per cent jump in Covid-19 cases on Thursday after registering 3,671 new infections, including 190 Omicron cases.In view of the same, the Maharashtra government announced fresh curbs on attendance at weddings, social, political, religious events and funerals."In case of marriages or any other social, political or religious event, the maximum number of attendees shall be restricted to 50 persons. The maximum number of attendees is restricted to 20 in funerals," the order stated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/section-144-in-mumbai-extended-till-january-15-in-view-of-rising-omicron-cases-101640941251668.html
31-12-2021||Dehradun||Dehradun declares 4 areas as containment zones amid rise in Covid cases||Dehradun administration has declared four areas as containment zones after Covid-19 cases were reported from these areas, the District Magistrate R Rajesh Kumar said on Friday.The containtment zones include Vivekananda phase-one, Laxmi road in Dalanwala, Adarsh Nagar Ballupur and one house near RTO check post in Mohabbewala.The police and administration teams will be monitoring these areas, Kumar said.According to the District Magistrate, a random investigation also is going on the district border. The arrangements are being made to increase the investigation of border areas.Earlier on Tuesday, Uttarakhand Chief Secretary Dr SS Sandhu instructed all the District Magistrates (DMs) to create containment zones and impose various restrictions on basis of population density in view of an increase in Covid-19 cases and the danger of its Omicron variant.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/dehradun-news/dehradun-declares-4-areas-as-containment-zones-amid-rise-in-covid-cases-101640934755824.html
31-12-2021||Lucknow||Covid-19 weakening in Uttar Pradesh, but vigilance necessary: CM Yogi||Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath said on Friday Covid-19 is weakening in the state and urged people to not worry about the coronavirus pandemic situation."There are about 829 active cases of Covid-19 in the state. Of these, 562 cases are in home isolation and are mild. The virus is weakening, but vigilance and caution are necessary due to the intensity of the infection," Adityanath said.He was addressing reporters in Lucknow after inspecting the Covid facility and oxygen plant at Dr Ram Manohar Lohia Hospital.Also Read| India’s Omicron tally mounts to 1,270; daily Covid-19 cases rise again by 16,764Adityanath also said Uttar Pradesh has carried out the maximum number of tests across the country and the Covid-19 positivity rate in the state is less than 5 per cent.“The vaccination drive is also accelerating. So far 20 million vaccines have been administered, the highest in the country,” the chief minister added.There is no need to worry about COVID, we just have to take precautions. The positivity rate in the state is below 0.05%. Till now we've administered 20 Cr vaccine doses which is highest in the country: CM Yogi Adityanath pic.twitter.com/ryZwkfV59iCurrently, Uttar Pradesh has been placed under a night curfew from 11pm till 5am because of the rising Covid-19 cases in the country. “In several states of the country, Covid cases are rising and under these circumstances, it is important to take some steps,” CM Adityanath said last week after chairing a review meeting.Also Read| Bihar reports first case of Omicron variant; patient recently visited DelhiRestrictions have been re-imposed on weddings and other public events with not more than 200 people allowed to participate. The state government also urged to mark New Year celebrations with adherence to all Covid-19 protocols.Uttar Pradesh has so far reported more than 1.7 million cases of coronavirus disease till now. From January 3, the state government will start administering vaccine doses to children between 15-18 years and healthcare workers and frontline workers will receive the third dose of the vaccine from January 10 onwards.The state has reported two cases of the Omicron variant till now and both patients have been discharged.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/covid19-weakening-in-uttar-pradesh-but-vigilance-necessary-cm-yogi-101640930439878.html
31-12-2021||Delhi||After a month of protests, resident doctors call off strike||NEW DELHI: After protesting over delays in NEET-PG counselling for about a month, during which they also withdrew from emergency services for two weeks, the Federation of Resident Doctors’ Association (FORDA) on Friday called off the strike. In a statement, the doctors’ body said emergency services in hospitals will resume by noon. The protesting doctors said that in a meeting with representatives from the Union health ministry, they were assured that the government would submit a committee report to the Supreme Court by January 6 and would publish the NEET-PG 2021 counselling schedule following a court hearing on that date.“On December 30, a series of meetings of FORDA representatives was held with multiple Delhi police officials... They (Delhi police) also assured that the FIR that was lodged against resident doctors will be taken care of as per legal procedures,” the FORDA said in the statement. “It was unanimously decided to call off the agitation on December 31, [at] 12pm, considering various factors, including patient care.”The association also claimed that the Union ministry regretted the violence against protesting doctors by the police on December 27.Resident doctors across the Capital have been protesting over the issue, initially boycotting work in the out-patient department, and gradually withdrawing all services, including routine and emergency. The agitation was suspended on December 9 after the protesting doctors were given assurances that the counselling schedule will be released in a week’s time, but when that didn’t happen, they resumed their strike from December 17, according to the FORDA.Safdarjung Hospital, Ram Manohar Lohia Hospital, Lady Hardinge, Lok Nayak Hospital and Guru Teg Bahadur Hospital are among the hospitals that have been impacted by the strike.
31-12-2021||Patna||Bihar reports first case of Omicron variant; patient recently visited Delhi||Bihar has reported its first Omicron case in a 26-year-old man as the coronavirus variant continues to spread at an alarming rate across India.An official told news agency PTI on Thursday that the patient is a resident of the state capital of Patna, who recently visited Delhi after he came back to India.“The patient is a resident of the Kidwaipuri locality in the city. He had visited the national capital last week to meet the relative, who tested positive for Covid-19 a day after he returned to Patna,” Sanjay Kumar Singh, the executive director of state health society, said on Thursday.Singh added that the relative was found infected with Omicron and the Patna man, who was under home isolation, got his sample collected and sent it for testing.Also Read| Third wave of Covid-19 has started in Bihar, says chief minister Nitish KumarThe official also said the Kidwaipuri locality has been declared a containment zone after the man tested positive for the Omicron variant.Bihar is experiencing a third wave of the coronavirus pandemic with chief minister Nitish Kumar saying that all necessary arrangements to tackle the spread of Covid-19 have been made.Amid the Omicron threat, the state government ordered the closure of all parks from Friday till Sunday."It has been also decided that the New Year celebration will not take place in any park here. The decision has been taken to avoid the crowd on New Year," according to a government order.Meanwhile, the total number of Omicron cases in India crossed the 1,000-mark on Friday. Of the 1,270 patients, 374 patients have been discharged so far.(With PTI inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/bihar-reports-first-case-of-omicron-variant-patient-recently-visited-delhi-101640921561937.html
31-12-2021||Delhi||Delhi’s air quality in very poor category||Delhi’s air quality was in the “very poor” category on Friday morning as a cold wave was expected in the city. According to the Central Pollution Control Board, the hourly Air Quality Index (AQI) at 7 am was 304.An AQI between zero and 50 is considered “good”, 51 and 100 “satisfactory”, 101 and 200 “moderate”, 201 and 300 “poor”, 301 and 400 “very poor”, and 401 and 500 “severe”.The Air Quality and Weather Forecasting and Research said the minimum and maximum temperatures are likely to increase slightly until Sunday and consistently high wind speeds are likely. “Mixing layer height continues to be 1.0-1.5 km. New year celebrations on 31st night (Friday) may increase emissions and worsen AQI but the net effect is likely to keep AQI within ‘Very Poor’ or ‘higher end of Very Poor’ for the next 3 days.”The India Meteorological Department said the minimum temperature is likely to be 3 degrees Celsius and the maximum temperature 19 degrees Celsius. on Thursday, the minimum temperature was 3 degrees Celsius, and the maximum was 19 degrees.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhis-air-quality-in-very-poor-category-101640922644122.html
31-12-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra announces fresh curbs after massive spike in new Covid cases, 450 Omicron infections||The Maharashtra government has imposed more Covid-19 restrictions as the state reported a massive jump in daily cases of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) at 5,368 and its tally of Omicron infections rose to 450.Mumbai saw a 46 per cent jump in Covid-19 cases after 3,671 new infections were detected in the capital city of the state on Thursday. Mumbai also reported 190 cases of the Omicron variant of the coronavirus, the highest single-day spike so far, taking the tally of such patients in the city to 327.In a revised order late on Thursday night, the Maharashtra government announced fresh curbs on attendance at weddings, social, political, religious events and funerals.Also read | 14 cities in 8 states on govt’s Omicron watch"In case of marriages or any other social, political or religious event, the maximum number of attendees shall be restricted to 50 persons. The maximum number of attendees is restricted to 20 in funerals," the order read."In any other part of the state which are tourist spots that attract a large crowd of people such as beaches, open grounds, etc, the competent authority may as deemed appropriate, impose section 144 of the Code of Criminal Procedure 1973,” it added.Also read | Maharashtra records 5k Covid cases in single dayMeanwhile, Mumbai Police have already imposed Section 144 in the city starting from December 30 till January 7.As per the new Covid-19 restrictions, prohibition has been placed on New Year's celebrations, parties in any closed or open space including restaurants, hotels, bars, pubs, resorts, and clubs from December 30 to January 7."The order shall come into the force, in the areas under the control of Commissioner of Police, Greater Mumbai from 00:00 Hrs of 30 December 2021 and will remain in force till 24 Hrs of 7 January 2022, unless withdrawn earlier," the order reads.Also read | World braces for virus surge in New Year"Any person contravening this order shall be punishable under section 188 of Indian Penal Code 1860 in addition to the penal provision under the Epidemic Diseases Act 1897 and National Disaster Management Act 2005 and other legal provisions as applicable," said Chaitanya S, deputy commissioner of police.Data shows nearly 45 per cent of the 450 Omicron cases detected in Maharashtra are from those without any international travel history. Out of the 450 Omicron cases detected till Thursday, 206 did not have any travel history.The figures have health experts worrying the Omicron variant is in a higher transmission phase. They also said the highly mutated Omicron variant is now fast replacing the Delta variant in Mumbai.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-sees-fresh-curbs-after-massive-covid-spike-450-omicron-infections-101640915804665.html
31-12-2021||Delhi||Delhi Metro issues advisory, asks travellers to keep extra time, travel only if absolutely essential||The Delhi Metro Rail Corporation (DMRC) has requested travellers to keep extra time as entry to stations is being regulated “to ensure compliance with the guidelines” and to travel only if absolutely essential."An 8 coach Metro train can generally carry about 2400 passengers. This comprises approximately 50 seated passengers and 250 standing passengers per coach. With present restrictions of 50 per cent seating and no standing, each coach can now accommodate only about 25 passengers," the DMRC said in a tweet on Thursday."Therefore, an 8 coach train can now accommodate approximately 200 passengers only. This is less than 10 per cent of a train's normal carrying capacity. Therefore, travel only if absolutely essential,” the DMRC said in another tweet.
31-12-2021||Mumbai||No information about Mumbai terror attack by Khalistanis: Top police official||Mumbai Police commissioner Hemant Nagrale said the department does not have any information regarding any terrorist attack by Khalistanis in the city and that it was a "rumour".Nagrale's comments came after reports said the Mumbai Police have tightened security at prominent railway stations and other public places and cancelled the weekly offs and holidays of its personnel in the wake of intelligence inputs that Khalistani operatives may carry out a terror attack in the city on the eve of the New Year.Also read | Navi Mumbai police increase police bandobast for New Year eveMeanwhile, Mumbai Police have said they are on alert and will be keeping a strict vigil across the city on December 31 amid rising cases of Covid-19.The Government Railway Police (GRP) have also stepped up security at prominent railway stations and have taken anti-sabotage measures."In view of the covid 19 situation we advise people to adhere to government directions on the issue. We @grpmumbai have deployed large manpower for checking, frisking & anti-sabotage measures at important Rly Stn. We will enforce laws firmly. We request people's cooperation," Quaiser Khalid, commissioner of GRP Mumbai, said in a tweet.Also read | NY gatherings banned in open, closed spaces in Mumbai from today till Jan 7As cases of the Omicron variant of the coronavirus are rising, the Mumbai Police have prohibited New Year celebrations and gatherings in any closed or open space, including hotels and restaurants.The orders were issued on Wednesday under Criminal Procedure Code (CrPC) Section 144 by deputy commissioner of police (operations) S Chaitanya."Mumbai police have prohibited all the new year gatherings and parties in closed and open places, there is a possibility that people may gather in small groups of not more than four persons," the official said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/no-information-about-mumbai-terror-attack-by-khalistanis-top-police-official-101640911487100.html
31-12-2021||Delhi||Delhi Cantt board to fine people feeding monkeys||The Delhi cantonment board (DCB) issued an order on Thursday stating that people feeding monkeys near human habitation will be fined. The warning added that the incidents of man-monkey conflict are on the increase in various parts of Delhi. “The public is hereby warned not to feed monkeys in human habitation particularly in residential colonies and in the vicinity of religious places. Anyone found feeding the monkeys in human habitation will be challaned or fined in accordance with existing municipal laws,” the order issued by the officer-in-charge (OIC) sanitation Delhi Cantonment Board Gyanendra Singh stated. Till now, no such restriction on feeding the simians has been imposed by any of the other four local bodies of the city. On Thursday, Singh confirmed to HT that the order has been issued and fines up to ₹5000 can be issued. “We are empowered to issue fines up to ₹5000 as per the Cantonment regulations 2006,” he added. The Cantonment comprises an area of approximately 10,521 acres. It also covers residential areas and markets such as Sadar Bazar, Shastri Bazar, Nangal Raya, Mehram Nagar, and Naraina village besides ridge areas.Officials from the veterinary departments of the municipal corporations stated that they have not issued any such orders. A senior veterinary department official from South Delhi Municipal Corporation (SDMC) said that the Delhi Municipal Corporation Act does not have any provision for fining people for feeding monkeys or dogs. “A meeting was held last month by the chief wildlife warden with all the stakeholder departments where the issue of monkeys was discussed. It was stated that fines may be issued but we don’t have any bylaws to support such fines,” the official said, requesting anonymity. Having relocated more than 21,000 monkeys to Asola Bhatti Wildlife Sanctuary over the last decade, Delhi still does not have any official count of monkeys in open areas or sanctuaries. The SDMC official said that the project has only led to an increase in the man-monkey conflict in South Delhi areas as monkeys from all over Delhi are relocated to Asola Bhatti, which has no natural food source or boundary to prevent the entry of monkeys into residential areas.Ved Pal, councillor from Aya Nagar ward, which is located right next to the relocation area,, said that the whole region has been facing an increasing number of monkey attacks over the last 10 years. “There is no natural food source in the sanctuary so monkeys enter kitchens. There have been complaints from several schools about attacks during lunchtime. The water tankers on several houses have been damaged. On roads along Asola you can see groups of hundreds of monkeys,” he added. The impacted region with increased conflict includes Aya Nagar, Tughlaqabad extension, Jaunapur, Fatehpur Beri, Asola, Dera Mandi and Bhati. Poonam Bhati, who represents Tughlaqabad extension ward, echoed similar concerns about the rising monkey attacks in the area.The relocation of captured monkeys to the Bhati mines area started in 2007 after a Delhi high court order. In 2007, deputy mayor SS Bajwa died of head injuries after falling from the terrace of his house, following an attack by monkeys. The official relocation data for 2021 presented by municipal commissioners in November shows that the East Delhi Municipal Corporation has managed to catch and relocate 45 monkeys to Asola Bhatti while the North MCD relocated 58 monkeys and the SDMC shifted 336 monkeys. An SDMC veterinary department official said that around 50-60% simians were caught from areas around the Radha Soami Satsang Beas ashram when a Covid treatment centre was being operated at the site. The civic body offers a compensation of ₹2400 per monkey to monkey catchers for this job. “Despite providing the highest rates in the country, monkey catchers have been reluctant to work in Delhi due to fear of legal cases being filed against them. The pandemic has further worsened the situation. There are only three monkey catchers currently working with us,” the official said.Over the last few years, Delhi has witnessed a growing monkey menace, while the forest department under the Delhi government and the municipal corporation’s veterinary department continue fighting regarding jurisdiction over the matter. “Several communications from the ministry of environment forest and climate change (animal welfare division) clearly states that monkeys are not stray animals and catching, trapping or controlling the population of monkeys can only be done by the forest department. If we catch monkeys, we will be breaking the law,” a senior veterinary department official said. A senior official from the forest department said the Delhi high court order of 2019 makes it clear the responsibility to capture monkeys lies with the corporations, not the forest department. “We have been asked to take care of the animals being shifted to Asola Bhatti Wildlife Sanctuary and each month, over ₹8 lakh is spent on their food. The high court made it clear corporations will be the ones transporting the monkeys there,” he said. During May-June earlier this year, several cut-outs of langoors were placed in the Covid centre to scare away the rhesus monkeys. This temporary solution also exposed the administrative failure in tackling Delhi’s simian menace. Ved Pal argued that the money spent on feeding monkeys could have been used to create a zone with natural fruit trees. “The area would be able to naturally sustain the monkey population and the annual expenditure on feeding may be saved,” he added||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-cantt-board-to-fine-people-feeding-monkeys-101640899121693.html
31-12-2021||Chandigarh||J&K logs 139 Covid cases, 65 test +ve in HP||Jammu and Kashmir reported one death and 139 fresh Covid infections on Thursday, an official health bulletin said. In Himachal Pradesh, 65 people tested positive for the virus, while one person died. Thirty-five people recovered from the disease in the state. Of the total cases in J&K, 102 were reported in Kashmir while the Jammu division saw 37 infections. The only fatality reported was from Jammu. The UT reported the highest 51 cases in Srinagar, followed by 15 in Jammu and 16 in Baramulla.Srinagar district has the highest number of active cases at 431 followed by Jammu and Baramulla districts with 257 and 159 active cases, respectively.The number of patients who were cured in the UT was 120 with active cases reaching 1,294. The government’s daily health bulletin also said that 91,585 vaccine doses were administered.The overall number of people who have recovered reached 3,35,347, prompting the recovery rate to mount to 98.31%. Since the pandemic started, the total cases in J&K have climbed to 3,41,167 and the death toll stands at 4,526.Officials said that 65,017 tests were conducted in the past 24 hours in the UT.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/jk-logs-139-covid-cases-65-test-ve-in-hp-101640897861539.html
31-12-2021||Chandigarh||SIT report giving clean chit to security forces in Hyderpora encounter wrong: Farooq||National Conference president Farooq Abdullah on Thursday said that the SIT report giving clean chit to security forces was wrong and civilians were killed by police during Hyderpora encounter. The police had on Wednesday warned political leaders against casting doubts upon the evidence obtained by the SIT in the Hyderpora encounter case. “The police’s report is wrong. The police had tried to save themselves. They (civilians) were killed by the police,” Farooq told reporters on the sidelines of a function. A judicial probe should be announced to bring out the truth of the Hyderpora encounter, he added.“The police should not work like this wherein they cause pain to the hearts of people,” the former Jammu and Kashmir chief minister said. Soon after SIT head DIG Sujit Kumar on Tuesday indicated no wrongdoing on part of the security forces in the Hyderpora encounter, almost all top leaders of mainstream political parties had questioned the probe by SIT. Even the families of civilians termed the investigation fabricated. Three civilians were killed in the encounter at Srinagar’s Hyderpora.Asked about the delimitation commission’s draft report, Abdullah said the NC has framed a response to the report and will submit it soon.“We have framed a response to the delimitation panel’s report, which will be submitted to the commission. It will be made public soon,” the MP from Srinagar added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/sit-report-giving-clean-chit-to-security-forces-in-hyderpora-encounter-wrong-farooq-101640897681479.html
31-12-2021||Delhi||Delhi demands GST hike rollback on textiles||The Delhi government has demanded that the proposed hike in the goods and service tax slab on textile and footwear items be rolled back, as deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia on Thursday said the state will raise the matter in the GST Council meeting scheduled on Friday. He ,added that under chief minister Arvind Kejriwal the Delhi government has been in favour of keeping tax rates low. Informing the public about Delhi Government’s stance on the tax hike, Shri Manish Sisodia tweeted, “Textile traders are opposing the increase in GST rates from 5% to 12%. Their demand is justified. The Aam Aadmi Party and the Delhi government under the leadership of Shri Arvind Kejriwal have always been in favour of keeping the tax rates on the low. In the meeting of the GST council to be held tomorrow, I will raise the demand for keeping the tax on clothes low.” “Despite the backbreaking inflation in the country, the central government has proposed a humongous tax hike on textiles under the new GST regime. The Centre has proposed to shoot up GST rates to 12% from the current rates of 5% in a complete disregard of the common man’s woes. The Delhi Government has always stood for the rights of the poor and underprivileged and has decided to protest against the hike and demand the rollback of the proposal in the GST council meeting,” Sisodia stated on Thursday. Chamber of Trader and Industry chairman Brijesh Goyal on said hundreds of cloth shops in Delhi remained closed on Thursday in protest against the GST increase on textile. “All business organizations strongly opposed the increase in the rate of GST on clothes. Shops in big markets like Chandni Chowk, Gandhi Nagar, Karol Bagh and other markets remained closed. The traders have warned the central government that if this hike is not withdrawn in Friday’s GST council meeting, the traders of Delhi will go on an indefinite strike,” said Goyal. Ramesh Ahuja, a Karol Bagh cloth trader, due to this the clothes will become very expensive and the general public will also have to bear the burden.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-demands-gst-hike-rollback-on-textiles-101640897621568.html
31-12-2021||Chandigarh||Srinagar freezes at -4°C, snow prediction for next week||Cold wave continued in Kashmir as Srinagar recorded freezing temperature of minus 4°C. The MeT office has predicted snowfall from next week.The weatherman said that a spell of good snowfall is likely next week.“Today, weather is mainly clear in Ladakh, hazy in J&K. As of now, widespread snow/rain spell of moderate intensity is most likely during 4-6th January in both UTs,” said MeT department in a statement.The MeT office said that further fall in minimum temperature is expected till January 2.Gulmarg recorded another cold night with mercury going down to -9.6°C. Another tourist spot, Pahalgam recorded -8.9°C.Jammu registered 5.4°C, Leh region observed -16°C while Dras, which is the second coldest place in the world, registered -21.9°C.Chillai Kalan, Kashmir’s harshest 40-day winter period, started on December 21. Kashmir’s winter pans out in three stages starting with Chillai Kalan which brings most of the snowfall and sub-zero temperatures, followed by 20 more days from February 1 which are less intense (called Chillai Khurd) and then lastly 10 days of mild cold (Chille Bache).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/srinagar-freezes-at-4-c-snow-prediction-for-next-week-101640897501657.html
31-12-2021||Delhi||Delhiwale: A butter coffee stall in old Delhi||Some cities never sleep. Like New York. Like Old Delhi. Any person living in, say, the Walled City’s Chitli Qabar Chowk will tell you that the sounds of their streets never disappear completely. Not at 11 pm, not at 1 am, not at 5 in the morning.The renewed restrictions due to the ongoing pandemic have (once again) severally restricted that carefree timelessness—this week a daily night curfew has been imposed between 10pm and 5am due to the fast-spreading Omicron variant. As a result, one of the losses the citizens face is that they can no longer amble to Chitli Qabar in icy midnight for Mohammed Moinuddin’s butter coffee.This quiet, unassuming man has been serving his signature winter brew for more than a decade. The pavement stall is right in the heart of the congested chowk, serving from 5pm to as late as 2am (in the pre-pandemic era).Blended with butter, the coffee fills up the body with so much heat that “you feel bulletproof from thandi,” says Mr Moinuddin solemnly. The only substantial piece of equipment in his makeshift café is an espresso machine that produces froth with great fury. The rest of the paraphernalia consists of a pan of hot milk (already mixed with Nescafé coffee powder), a tin of cocoa powder and slabs of yellow Amul butter. All that Mr Moinuddin have to do is to drop the butter slabs into a jug of coffee milk, which he steams up with his espresso machine.”Served in thick paper glasses, the steaming hot drink tastes… well, buttery. This being Old Delhi, it’s very milky and sugary. And since Amul butter happens to be a principal ingredient, the coffee is a bit salty—like the Tibetan tea.Till late into the night, the all-men customers huddle around Mr Moinuddin’s stall, gossiping over repeat glasses of the butter coffee. These days, because of the restrictions, Mr Moinuddin says he is obliged to wrap up his evening’s buisness as early as 8pm. Meanwhile, it is 5.15 pm right now and his stall is a mess, marooned in watery chaos (see photo). “The MCD people are repairing the underground water pipes,” he says, exasperatedly.Half an hour later, the street regains some order. Mr Moinuddin is ready to serve his delicious drink (19 rupees per serving). Alas, the customary thrill is missing. Blame not the earnest man. The true pleasure of butter coffee lies in consuming it during the bone-chilling midnights. That is no longer possible, so one must learn to partake, without ifs and buts, of whatever remains of the pre-coronavirus joys.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhiwale-a-butter-coffee-stall-in-old-delhi-101640897271202.html
31-12-2021||Chandigarh||Obituary: Justice NK Sodhi, a gentle legal giant||Chief justice NK Sodhi is no more. Son of illustrious late Justice HR Sodhi, he was a legal doyen in his own right. Graduating law from Panjab University in 1965, his professional expertise as a court counsel, led him to elevation to the Bench in 1991. He donned the esteemed positions of Chief Justice at Kerala and Karnataka high court. Upon superannuation in 2005, he held office for six years at Securities Appellate Tribunal, Mumbai. He mastered a new subject and in 2013, authored ‘Report of High Level Committee to Review SEBI (Prohibition of Insider Trading) Regulations’, a subject alien to him. His return to Chandigarh in 2011 saw him turning a new leaf and getting actively involved as an arbitrator. Working and learning never stopped.My fond association with Justice Sodhi began in the corridors of the high court in 1986. As a sought-after senior counsel in labour and company matters, he was ever available for guidance, tips of court craft and assistance to fledgling lawyers like myself. He was enriched as a walking encyclopedia in his law specialization. His multifarious legal personality knew no bounds. He remained the editor of ‘High Court Indian Law Reports’ for over 10 years and taught as a part-timer at the law department of Panjab University for 13 years, teaching tax and labour laws. He is affectionately remembered in the local legal fraternity, academic, practicing and on the Bench. His instant Punjabi and English wit, humour, vibrant and jovial personality connected him to all. He made friends with all. Numerous petitions challenging reduction of disability pension by controller, defense accounts of personnel, boarded out of defence service, led to the first-ever Defense Pension Adalat in 1999 at Chandigarh, under the able control of Justice NK Sodhi. As the central government’s standing counsel, I worked closely with him. I learnt amiable traits. Impressionable prints were ingrained. Spot redressal of grievances at the high court resolved a huge number of cases. The then defence minister George Fernandes lauded the project. Court etiquettes, politeness, punctuality, courtesies, cordiality and warmth, his court management was perfection. Patient hearing, compliance of court procedures, fairness and affording equal treatment to members of the Bar were his cherished traits. His fond habit of repeating his observations eloquently, gave you reaction time to respond with clarity. His mannerisms of court craft as a Judge were ingenious. A stickler of honesty and integrity, full of candor, his virtues were an epitome to emulate. Retirement did not end his zest and zeal to keep working. A gentleman of good tastes, he ensured bending the elbow on home visits. His recent past saw him battling with leukemia and frequent hospitalisations at PGI. Regardless, his willpower to keep going never ended. My frequent messages to him to join in webinars or discussions were very politely responded, expressing indisposition. I reciprocated with cheerful ‘get-well soon’ greetings and happy messages, pretending ignorance. The morale had to be kept high. I always wished to keep him updated with whatever I did, which he cherished. He often articulated praise on the writings of my son Ankit, which I shared with him. His ailment was never in the way.Steadfast on his values and principles, he was what a Judge ought to be. He lived his life, with his rules and ethics, and stood them till the end, never influenced by fear or favour. His smiling face, a cheery hello, always drew me to him. Adieu Judge. Rest in peace.(The writer is a Chandigarh-based practising lawyer)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/obituary-justice-nk-sodhi-a-gentle-legal-giant-101640897381594.html
31-12-2021||Chandigarh||Raise import duty on apples: Jai Ram to Centre||Himachal Pradesh chief minister Jai Ram Thakur on Thursday asked the central government to raise import duty on apples. Thakur met Union finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman in New Delhi and raised issues related to Himachal Pradesh. While participating in the pre-budget consultation meeting presided over by Sitharaman at Vigyan Bhawan, Thakur said the finance ministry was continuously providing financial assistance to the state. He said that interest-free loan of ₹400 crore was sanctioned for the development of infrastructure in the state during this financial year and additional ₹600 crore may be provided in the form of special assistance. Raising the issue of import duty on apples, Thakur emphasised the need to increase the same from 50% to 100% to protect Himachali apple and livelihood of 2.5 lakh families. He said that apple was the main horticultural crop of the state which was also the primary source of livelihood of a large number of population. However, due to a large influx of imported apples in the national market, prices of Himachal apple had fallen sharply, leading to revenue losses of the horticulturists of the state, he said. Therefore, import duty should be increased and apples should be excluded from the list of fruits and other commodities brought under the open general licence, he added. The HP chief minister said that the Airports Authority of India (AAI) had found a site suitable for the construction of the greenfield airport in Mandi and had also accorded its final technical go-ahead. Therefore, this project may be included in the upcoming Union budget, he added. Thakur said the modes of rail and air connectivity were limited in the state and three existing airports of Shimla, Kullu and Kangra had small runways, making them suitable only for operating small planes and therefore Mandi airport was the need of the hour. He also demanded the extension of goods and services tax (GST) compensation facility for next three years. He said that Himachal was a hilly state having tough topographical conditions. The state is receiving GST compensation and revenue deficit grant (RDG) as a part of the central assistance and out of this, GST compensation is effective only till June 2022. Moreover, RDG will also be reduced in the coming years as per the recommendations of the 15th finance commission, which will adversely affect the finances of the state government, he said. The chief minister urged to extend the industrial development policy 2017 for the next five years in order to boost the economic growth in the state. Thakur said after the global investors’ meet in 2019, many industrial units had shown interest in setting up plants in the state and the investment of approximately ₹97,000 crore was expected. The industrial development policy being implemented by the ministry of commerce and industry would be effective only till March 31, 2022, which should be extended further so as to promote industrial development in the state, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/raise-import-duty-on-apples-jai-ram-to-centre-101640897141619.html
31-12-2021||Chandigarh||HP health department reviews vaccination drive prep for teens||Himachal Pradesh’s health department on Thursday reviewed the preparation for vaccination drive for teenagers between 15 and 18 years of age beginning on January 3. Secretary, health, Amitabh Awasthi chaired the meeting of the state task force committee for Covid vaccination in Shimla wherein he reviewed the preparation for vaccination of those in the 15 to 18 years age group and precautionary dose for people above 60 years with comorbidities. The secretary said as per the decision of the ministry of health and family welfare, Covid vaccination of children in the age group of 15 to 18 years would start from January 3, 2022. He said there are 3,57,450 beneficiaries in classes 9 to 12, who would be vaccinated in 2,797 government schools of the state. The beneficiaries of this group would be given Covaxin, he added. The eligible children of this age group can book appointments by self-registration through an existing account on CoWIN or by creating a new account through a mobile number. Online or on-site (walk-in) appointments can also be booked at the nearest government high school and senior secondary school. The precautionary dose for health care workers (HCWs), front-line workers (FLWs) and 60 years and above population with comorbidities, who have received two doses, would be provided from January 10, 2022. The prioritisation and sequencing of precautionary dose would be on completion of nine months (that is 39 weeks) from the date of administration of the second dose. As many as 96,200 eligible people would be vaccinated with precautionary dose, including 32,663 HCWs, 61,431 FLWs and 10,530 of those above 60 years.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/hp-health-department-reviews-vaccination-drive-prep-for-teens-101640896841576.html
31-12-2021||Chandigarh||Road crashes claimed 92 lives in Chandigarh this year||With no vehicular restrictions this year, road fatalities in Chandigarh went up by 77% as compared to the last year, data compiled by the traffic police shows. Against 53 fatalities in 50 road mishaps in 2020, the city recorded 94 deaths in 92 mishaps till December 29, 2021. The numbers, however, are lower than the pre-Covid times. Two-wheelers most vulnerableAs per the data, two-wheelers continued to be the most vulnerable, accounting for 41.48% of the total fatalities recorded in 2021. Last year, two-wheeler fatalities stood at 44%. The number of pedestrian deaths also increased from 12 in 2020 to 24 in 2021 (see box).Of the 92 fatal accidents, 51 were caused by speeding, 18 by rash and negligent driving while three were caused by driving on the wrong side. In 10 fatal incidents, it was found that the accused were under the influence of liquor and in 10 other cases, the fatal accident was caused due to the accused jumping traffic lights.Deputy superintendent of police (DSP, road safety) Jaswinder Singh said, “People who speed also tend to jump traffic signals especially at night which is dangerous.” Senior superintendent of police (SSP, traffic) Manisha Choudary said, “The number of fatalities, although higher than 2020 is lower than previous years and through awareness, better enforcement and engineering initiatives, we will bring down the number further in the coming year.”She added, “To check fatal accidents, we are in the process of installing rotaries at some lightpoints and will set up a Chandigarh Road Safety Society to help in designing better road infrastructure. We will also be soon launching an iRAD app to scientifically record and analyse the causes of accidents. For effective enforcement, we are purchasing three more speed radar guns with night vision to capture speeding at night. Night nakas are also being deployed to deter the traffic violations on accident-prone stretches.”Need to further bring down average speedPunjab traffic advisor Navdeep Asija said, “Comparing 2021’s data with 2020 is not fair. If we look at the numbers in 2019 and 2021, we see that fatalities have reduced by 10, which is a good achievement. Chandigarh usually sees around 100 fatal accidents. To bring the fatalities down further, police need to check speeding more effectively. In Chandigarh, the speed differential or the average speed on a road is too high at night as compared to the day which leads to many fatal accidents. This differential must be reduced to 5%.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/road-crashes-claimed-92-lives-in-chandigarh-this-year-101640896721539.html
31-12-2021||Delhi||Fresh cloud of uncertainty surrounds reopening of colleges surge in Covid cases||Amid the spike in Covid-19 cases across Delhi, there is renewed uncertainty over the fate of colleges and universities with students fearing that they might have to continue with online classes next year as well. Most colleges and universities have remained closed since March 2020, when the pandemic first began. Even though some universities such as Jawaharlal Nehru University (JNU) and Delhi University (DU) reopened in a phased manner earlier in the year for certain sections of students, the majority of courses continued to be taught online. While some institutes planned to resume physical classes in January, others planned to take a call on reopening after assessing the Covid-19 situation. The recent uptick in cases has dashed the hopes of students, who said that another lockdown would give university administrations a reason to put the reopening plans on the back burner. In mid-November, IIT Delhi officials shared plans of resuming offline classes from January. Sources at the institute, however, said that the status quo on online classes would continue in the light of the surge in Covid-19 cases. Most activities at the institute were being carried out in online mode, said an official familiar with the matter, who did not wish to be quoted. At Delhi University, the spike in Covid-19 case dampened the hope of students who have been protesting for the past 52 days to press for the reopening of the university. Abhigyan (known by his first name), president, AISA Delhi, one of the student organisations participating in the stir, said that while things seemed uncertain amid the evolving Covid-19 situation, students wanted the university to reopen since online classes were not sustainable for a long time. “We have been protesting for the reopening of the university for the past 52 days now. With cases surging once again, there is uncertainty, but the university has to come up with some solution. A permanent closure and suspension of classes is not the way out. The student community is well aware that another lockdown and restrictions mean another stretch of online education. They are still in favour of the reopening and the administration must come up with a solution,” said Abhigyan. DU registrar Vikas Gupta said that the university had only resumed practical and project activities for students this year, which were being conducted at a small scale. Gupta said that the university would comply with DDMA norms and, considering the prevailing Covid-19 situation, the university was not expected to reopen anytime soon. “Until now, we were calling only half the students for limited practical or project activity. If the cases increase in the next few days, we will stop practical sessions as well. We are going by the DDMA guidelines. Looking at the prevailing Covid-19 situation, reopening the university is out of the question since we cannot endanger the lives of students,” said Gupta. JNU, which reopened for third-year PhD scholars, in September has also issued fresh restrictions in line with the yellow alert of the Graded Response Action Plan (Grap). The university has issued directions for the closing of the central library on Wednesday and other offline academic activities on campus.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/fresh-cloud-of-uncertainty-surrounds-reopening-of-colleges-surge-in-covid-cases-101640896661569.html
31-12-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh Beopar Mandal opposes GST hike on textiles||The Chandigarh Beopar Mandal opposed the increase in GST from 5% to 12% on fabrics, ready-made garments and footwear costing up to of ₹1,000 at a meeting of its GST coordination committee.Ram Karan Gupta, chairman of the GST coordination committee, CBM said that textile traders are apprehensive of further slowing down of business after the hike.Charanjiv Singh, president of CBM said that they have written to Union finance minister Nirmala Sitaraman urging her to defer the notification, as increased prices will disturb the budget of the middle class which is already suffering because of high inflation.The CBM members said that if the increase in GST rates is implemented, CBM may also resort to agitation on call of respective trade associations merchant and join the nationwide protest being carried out in some other states of the country.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-beopar-mandal-opposes-gst-hike-on-textiles-101640896307487.html
31-12-2021||Delhi||Covid +ve flyers from ‘at-risk’ countries can isolate at hotel||Passengers arriving from at-risk countries who test positive for Covid-19 will now be able to choose a paid stay at a designated hotel for their mandatory quarantine if they test positive at the airport, the Delhi government said in an order on Thursday.South Africa, China, New Zealand, the United Kingdom, and all of Europe have been classified as at-risk for the Omicron variant and anyone arriving from these regions will need to take a test on arrival and, if they test positive, will need to check into an institutional quarantine. The order added that those from other foreign countries, if found positive in the random testing, will also be transferred to these facilities.
31-12-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh adviser wants full vaccination of target population within a week||In view of the surge in Covid cases, UT adviser Dharam Pal has directed officials to fully vaccinate the entire eligible population in the city with a week. In a meeting held on Thursday, the adviser asked officials to strictly enforce all directions. Regarding admission of patients, it was decided that all asymptomatic patients will be home quarantined, and only on doctor’s consent, a positive patient will be hospitalised.“All asymptomatic Covid positive patients are to be allowed home quarantine as a first option. However, in case isolation facility (separate room with washroom) is not available, he or she will be admitted in an institutional quarantine facility, like the mini Covid Care centre,” said Yashpal Garg, UT health secretary.Covid vaccination has seen a rise in the UT over the last few days. Previously, about 3,500 daily vaccinations were being done, which has now crossed 10,000 a day. First dose has been given to about 115% of the eligible population while the second dose coverage is about 87%.The health secretary said that if current pace of vaccination continues for next few days, then UT may achieve the target of 100% second dose vaccination within one week.He said five more vaccination teams have been added and efforts are on to add 20 more vaccination teams from Friday. New Covid care centre in ChandigarhOne mini Covid Care Centre is already functional at Bal Bhawan, Sector-23B, while another will start functioning at Indira Holiday Home, Sector-24, from January 3“Only those Covid positive patients are to be admitted in the hospital facility where the doctor concerned has advised for constant medical care with or without oxygen/ventilator support etc,” it was stated in the press statement issued by the health department.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-adviser-wants-full-vaccination-of-target-population-within-a-week-101640895761309.html
31-12-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh Housing Board invites e-tenders for 145 properties||The Chandigarh Housing Board (CHB) has invited e-bids for the sale of 145 residential as well as commercial units.Yashpal Garg, chief executive office, CHB, said the board is going to sell 13 residential units on freehold basis and 24 residential and 108 commercial units on leasehold basis.He said the e-tenders can be submitted from 10am onwards on January 11 and up to 10am on January 28. He added that the tenders will be opened at 10.15am on January 28.The e-tender process is open for all citizens of India as well as NRIs/PIOs above 18 years of age. Those who already have any property (residential or commercial) can also participate in the tendering, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-housing-board-invites-e-tenders-for-145-properties-101640895581421.html
31-12-2021||Chandigarh||Aftermath of Chandigarh MC polls: Haryana BJP leaders to examine party’s performance||A panel comprising Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leaders from Haryana will examine the reasons for the party’s performance in the municipal corporation elections, as it secured only 12 of the total 35 seats. In the outgoing MC, the Saffron Party had 20 councillors of total 26 seats.This was decided by party in-charge and national general secretary BJP Vinod Tawde during a meeting with the party’s losing candidates on Thursday. Party president Arun Sood and general secretary Ramvir Bhatti were also present.The issue of functioning of local organisation was also raised during the discussion, with a former mayor seeking the members from outside the state on the panel. Tawde assured, it is learnt, that the party will objectively examine the election results, and how different party workers performed during the campaign as regards to duty assigned to them. Tawde also asked the losing candidates to continue with their work in the wards in which they were given tickets.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/aftermath-of-chandigarh-mc-polls-haryana-bjp-leaders-to-examine-party-s-performance-101640895401171.html
31-12-2021||Delhi||City traffic police announce arrangements around India Gate||The traffic police on Thursday said elaborate traffic arrangements have been made in and around India Gate for regulation of both pedestrian as well as vehicular traffic for New Year. It also advised visitors to avoid India Gate as it has been closed for public due to the ongoing construction of Central Vista.“Strict compliance of latest DDMA orders issued will be implemented according to which all social, political, sports, entertainment, cultural, religious, festival related gatherings and congregations are prohibited throughout Delhi,” said Vivek Kishore, joint commissioner of police (Traffic).DMRC said that to ease crowding on New Year’s eve, exit from Rajiv Chowk Metro station will not be allowed. In a statement on Thursday, the DMRC also urged people to travel only if it was “absolutely essential”.“An 8 coach Metro train can generally carry about 2,400 passengers.. With present restrictions of 50% seating and no standing, each coach can now accommodate only about 25 passengers. Therefore, an 8-coach train can now accommodate approximately 200 passengers only. This is less than 10% of a train’s normal capacity. Therefore, travel only if absolutely essential,”said Anuj Dayal, executive director, corporate communication, DMRC.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/city-traffic-police-announce-arrangements-around-india-gate-101640893483593.html
31-12-2021||Chandigarh||55 new Covid cases in Chandigarh tricity area||Fifty-five Covid cases were reported in the tricity on Thursday, of which 20 cases were reported on Panchkula, the highest the district has seen in the last six months. Mohali, meanwhile, had 18 cases and Chandigarh had 17.Dr Mankirat, the official spokesperson in Panchkula, said: “We have been pleading people to follow the Covid-19 norms. Their safety is in their hands. The best way to celebrate the New Year is to keep safety measures in mind.”She said that it is the “irresponsible” behaviour of the people that is leading to a surge in infections. “While leaves of health workers have been cancelled, people are thronging malls and partying at clubs. Today, a foreign returnee has tested positive and she has already been to one of the clubs,” she added.Chandigarh has highest active infectionsThe active case count in tricity has now reached 258, of which the highest number (129) persons are in Chandigarh, 65 and 64 are from Panchkula and Mohali each.Meanwhile, authorities set up contact tracing teams and set Covid care centres adjoining Mansa Devi Complex. In Panchkula, seven cases were reported from the Industrial Area, three from Kalka and rest from Amravati Enclave, MDC, Sector 12, 16, 20, 4 and 8.Civil surgeon, Adarshpal Kaur said that these are the highest figures reported in the recent past. “Two days ago, 15 cases were reported, but a cluster of 13 cases was noticed at a BSF camp in Lakhnaur village. Today, cases are reported from across the city. We did not notice any cluster.”In December, 619 positive cases were reported in the tricity, of which highest, 284, were witnessed in Chandigarh, followed by 187 in Mohali and 148 in Panchkula.This month, seven persons succumbed to the virus, of which three died in Chandigarh and two each in Panchkula and Mohali.
31-12-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: Three nabbed for setting Haryana MLA’s vehicle on fire||A Nayagoan resident and his two accomplices were arrested on Thursday for setting Panipat MLA Pramod Kumar Vij’s vehicle on fire outside Haryana MLA hostel in Sector 3 a day prior. The accused have been identified as Himanshu alias Hemu of Nayagaon village, who is involved in selling of jackets, and his aides Mukesh and Tillu. They were nabbed at a naka near Kansal turn, behind secretariat.They have been arrested based on the complaint of constable Amit Deswal of 4th Battalion, Haryana, who was posted on guard duty at the MLA Hostel during the time of the incident.“The trio had got into a scuffle with the gunman and driver of the MLA in Sector 10 market on the same day. The followed them and under the influence of alcohol, they damaged the vehicle and set it ablaze to take revenge,” said Ketan Bansal, superintendent of police. The police said that the MLA’s car had hit the accused’s vehicle while reversing, which led to the scuffle.CCTV footage helped trace the accused The Chandigarh police team managed to crack the case within 40 hours with help of CCTV footage, in which the accused’s car was captured. The owner of the vehicle was traced to Ferozepur, who told the police that he had sold it to a dealer in Industrial Area, Chandigarh. On getting in touch with the dealer, it was found that the vehicle was sold to two brothers in Nayagaon, who had further sold it to another person staying in Nayagaon, who sold it to Manish, a resident of Nada village in Mohali.Himashu had borrowed the vehicle from him. A case under Section 353, 425 and 426 of Indian Penal Code has been registered at Sector 3 police station . The accused will be produced before a court on Friday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-three-nabbed-for-setting-haryana-mla-s-vehicle-on-fire-101640895161840.html
31-12-2021||Chandigarh||Hope to come back for Punjab oath-taking: Kejriwal in Chandigarh||Aam Aadmi Party national convener and Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Thursday said that the Chandigarh Municipal Corporation election results have triggered a wave for change in poll-bound Punjab and he hoped to be back for the installation ceremony of next state government early next year. Addressing AAP workers at the Vijay Yatra (victory procession) after his party won 14 of the 35 seats in its debut Chandigarh MC election, he said: “Our workers have to work so hard that people vote for the AAP across the country.” This was the first municipal corporation outside Delhi that the party has won. “From the Chandigarh results… a wave has started in Punjab. I hope to be back to attend the oath-taking ceremony (of the Punjab government),” he said addressing a large gathering after the roadshow. Kejriwal was accompanied by Punjab AAP chief and Sangrur MP Bhagwant Mann, who in his address said that AAP first wins a capital then the state. Later, on his way to Patiala, Kejriwal met protesting All India Truck Ekta Union members in Zirakpur and assured them that if AAP comes to power in Punjab, he will revive the truck unions. He further said that he agreed with all their demands. Kejriwal said, “Till date unjust is being done with the people of Punjab. Akalis, BJP and Congress have ruined the state and looted the people of Punjab. AAP now has made its mark and we appeal to the people to give us five years and we will show the change.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/hope-to-come-back-for-punjab-oath-taking-kejriwal-in-chandigarh-101640894982571.html
31-12-2021||Chandigarh||Free of night curfew, Ludhiana looks forward to ring in new year with fanfare||A year after coronavirus curbs put a damper on New Year celebrations, residents and businessmen are looking forward to ring in 2022 with great fervour, fanfare and aplomb. Though Covid and its variants, the most recent being Omicron, continue to cast a long shadow over the world, the drop in cases, widespread vaccination, and lack of night curfew, have encouraged hoteliers, and residents to hold mega celebrations, after two years of virus-induced hardships. Hoteliers and restauranters, whose business had taken a hit last year due to a 9.30pm curfew on New Year's eve, say they are receiving a good response this year with most of the 250 hotels, and restaurants in the city already reserved for parties. Punjab Hotel and Restaurant Association president Amarvir Singh said, “The public is eager to hold celebrations after two years of Covid curbs, which is also good for business. Famous singers will be performing at different bars and clubs, which will boost footfall, as people from other districts, and Chandigarh, are sure to visit the city.” Elite clubs such as the Sutlej club, Lodhi club will be holding grand celebrations for their members. Popular haunts of the city folk, including Sarabha Nagar, Model Town, Gol Market, and Dugri, are also expected to be flooded with revellers. Restauranter and Sarabha Nagar Main Market Traders Association chairperson Wangjenn Chiu said, “Going by the footfall we received on Christmas, it stands to reason that people will throng the markets on New Year Eve as well. However, the public should continue to take precautions, least there is a spike in cases.” Several residents are also organising a New Year’s bash at their homes, and farmhouse, while others plan to ring in the New Year in Chandigarh or Himachal Pradesh.A Model Town Extension, Block B, resident Tarandeep Singh said, “Usually, we ring in the New Year in Shimla or Chandigarh, but this year we will be inviting our friends and family to our house. Fortunately, fewer Covid cases are being reported. However, we must remain cautious.” Seeing the celebration as a chance for the hospitality sector to recover, Owner of Bistro 226, Civil Lines, Sukhkaran Gill said, “The hospitality sector has suffered many setbacks over the last two years. We are expecting a good response this year.” Only fully vaxxed persons to be allowed in parties: Hotel association With the spectre of Covid still looming large, only vaccinated persons will be allowed to enter the premises of hotels and restaurants. Punjab Hotel and Restaurant Association president Amarvir Singh said, “We have taken the step as a precautionary step in the wake of rising concern over the highly transmissible Omicron variant of the coronavirus.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/free-of-night-curfew-ludhiana-looks-forward-to-ring-in-new-year-with-fanfare-101640894981307.html
31-12-2021||Chandigarh||Panchkula: Man-son held for elderly man’s murder||A man and his son have been arrested for allegedly murdering an elderly man in Barwala on Thursday.The accused have identified as Sukhdev, 60, a gardener with the Haryana Police and Parveen, 40.The victim has been identified as Prem Singh, 65, a resident of Barwala, who was a labourer. The victim’s son stated in his complaint that his father had gone to throw waste in a dump yard, when the accused duo, who live in the same neighbourhood, attacked him with sticks which led to his death.The FIR does not mention any old animosity. The station house officer of Chandimandir police station, said, “Prem was killed as he threw waste in an open space. Whether the land was government or personal property is yet to be confirmed.” A murder case has been registered.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/panchkula-man-son-held-for-elderly-man-s-murder-101640894921427.html
31-12-2021||Chandigarh||New Year celebrations set to be muted in Chandigarh, Mohali, Panchkula amid curbs||With Covid cases on the surge, New Year celebrations are set to be muted in the tricity, with the administrations of all three cities bringing in restrictions to curb gatherings.No access to public places for partially vaccinated in ChandigarhThe Chandigarh administration has decided to only allow fully vaccinated people to enter establishments, such as hotels, clubs, malls, shopping complexes, cinema halls, museums, threaters and other public places from December 31. As per the order, only those adult guests and staff, who are fully vaccinated (have had the second dose) or who are not yet qualified for the second dose as per health protocol, are to allowed inside the premises of various establishments The order, which was earlier set to be implemented from January 1, has been advanced by a day. In case of violation of this order, the owners of the establishments will be made to shell out ₹5,000 as fine, and may also face action as per law. President of the Chandigarh restaurants and hotels association and proprietor of Hotel Metro in Sector 43, Arvinder Pal Singh, said, “The administration hasn’t sent us any special directions for New Year’s eve. However the recent spike in cases has had some effect on our business and led to cancellations. “A special ‘Lady Police Squad’ has been formed under the supervision of four inspectors to assist women/girls in the city. Chandigarh police has deployed 1,800 police personnel on duty. Only fully vaccinated allowed at New Year parties in MohaliIn Mohali, meanwhile, the administration has decided to only allow fully vaccinated or people with a negative RTPCR report, not older than 72 hours, to attend New Year Parties. Mohali deputy commissioner Isha Kalia said, “Both doses have also been made mandatory for employees and office-bearers of malls, restaurants, salons, discos and gyms in the district. The owner and management of the party venue will be responsible in lapses in implementing the orders.” Mohali senior superintendent of police Navjot Singh Mahal, said, “We will not allow any hooliganism. All eateries have been asked to close by 11 pm and no one will be allowed post-midnight to ensure that no law-and-order situation arises.” He added that 1,100 police personnel, including 20 gazetted officers and SHOs of all the police stations, will be on duty. Night curfew, heavy police deployment in Panchkula Panchkula residents will have to celebrate New Year’s eve at their homes only, as the city will be under night curfew from 11pm to 5am. DPRO Vinay Vats said “No relaxation has been given by the DC. The night curfew will start at 11pm and no one will be allowed to roam outside.” Police barricades have been set up at 42 places, wherein over 500 policemen will be deployed. DCP Mohit Handa said: “People must follow Covid-19 norms and not indulge in any nuisance. Also, people should keep in mind the night curfew imposed by the state government.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/new-year-celebrations-set-to-be-muted-in-chandigarh-mohali-panchkula-amid-curbs-101640894861377.html
31-12-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana sees 17 fresh Covid cases, highest in 5 months||The district registered a two-fold hike in fresh coronavirus cases on Thursday after 17 people tested positive for the virus – the highest in five months. It was last on August 11, that 34 people had tested positive in the district, since then the daily tally has always remained below 17. The spike, incidentally, comes on the same day when the state reported its first Omicron case from Nawanshahr. However, no case of the new highly transmissible variant has been reported in the district so far. The people who tested positive include travellers from the United Kingdom and Romania, two health workers, and five patients from the flu corner. The new cases have taken the district’s Covid count to 87,790, of which 85,608 people have recovered so far. Now, the active cases stand at 65, of which 63 patients are home isolated, while two are undergoing treatment at a private hospitals.The civil surgeon said that the samples of all new patients have been sent for genome sequencing, and it will take approximately two weeks to get the reports. As all cases were reported from different parts of the state, no micro containment zone had been formed. Around 2,117 people have died succumbed to the virus in the district since the Covid outbreak in 2020.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-sees-17-fresh-covid-cases-highest-in-5-months-101640894741169.html
31-12-2021||Chandigarh||PU senate: 11 agendas to be tabled for discussion at meeting on January 8||The recommendations made by the Board of Finance (BoF) in January 2020 are among the 11 agendas that will be tabled for discussion during the meeting of the Panjab University senate on January 8. This will be the senate’s first meeting in two years.The BoF had in January 2020 decided that no secretariat pay will be given to employees, after receiving a letter from the Punjab government, with directions for the same. The recommendations of BoF were approved by the syndicate in January last year and will now be taken up for final approval in the senate.The board had also decided to allow the varsity employees to use any airline while travelling for official purposes, as long as they are not utilising funds from the central government. It had also approved that while claiming leave travel concession (LTC), air travel through private airlines (economy class) will be permitted, with the rider that the reimbursement of air fare will be limited up to Air India’s fare for equivalent class.Roster for constituent collegesThe senate in its upcoming meeting will take a final call on the reservation roster for the recruitment of assistant professors at its constituent colleges. The syndicate had last year approved the recommendations of a varsity panel that was constituted to prepare the roster in consonance with the directions of the University Grants Commission (UGC). The draft roster prepared by the varsity was approved by the panel in its meeting on January 29 in 2020. PU has six constituent colleges in Sikhwala (Sri Muktsar Sahib), Balachaur (SBS Nagar), Nihalsingh Wala (Moga), Dharamkot (Moga), Mokham Khan Wala (Ferozepur) and Guru Harsahai (Ferozepur).The university senate will also take a call on the resolution proposed by the former senator Dr Dalip Kumar to amend the regulation 3 (pages 46-48) of PU calendar volume I, 2007.PU senate to take up promotion policy matter of dental facultyThe promotion policy for faculty members of Panjab University’s Dr Harvansh Singh Judge Institute of Dental Sciences and Hospital will be taken at the senate meeting on January 8.The syndicate had in its meeting in July 2020 resolved that the report of the committee, which was formed in 2019 to give suggestions regarding the promotion policy for dental faculty, be approved. The report recommended that the existing promotion policy should continue to be followed as it already has promotional avenues. In May 2019, 37 faculty members had approached HC, arguing that PU has framed a promotion policy/career advancement scheme as per regulations of the University Grants Commission (UGC) for faculty of all other colleges. However, the benefit of the same is not being given to faculty of the dental institute, they said. The HC, in its order in June 2019, had directed PU and the Dental Council of India (DCI) to decide on a promotion policy. The varsity had also submitted the committee’s report with HC.
31-12-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: Kejriwal invokes pledge to keep his flock together ahead of mayoral poll||With fears of horse-trading hanging over the election of Chandigarh municipal corporation mayor, Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) national convener and Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal got the party’s 14 councillors to take the pledge of loyalty in public here on Thursday.Addressing AAP workers at the Vijay Yatra (victory procession), after his party won 14 of the 35 seats in its maiden Chandigarh MC election, Kejriwal said, “The trust shown by people should not be broken.”Kejriwal read out the pledge as the councillors followed him in reciting it, “Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) party is like my mother. Chandigarh is my family. I will not break the trust the residents of Chandigarh have placed in me and my party. I will never leave AAP. I will never be a traitor to my party and my Chandigarh family. If I do, then Chandigarh residents shouldn’t vote for me ever.” In the pledge, he further asked the councillors to commit that they would work with honesty, not accept any bribe and not allow anybody else to do wrong things.In the newly elected MC house, the debutant AAP became the single-largest party, but failed to get clear majority. AAP has 14 votes, Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) has 13, Congress 8 and Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) 1. AAP, BJP and Congress -all have stated they would put up their candidates for the mayor’s post.Only a day after the election results were announced, AAP had alleged that BJP leaders were trying to purchase their councillors to change sides during the mayoral elections. It had put its councillors under surveillance. Responding to these allegations, both BJP and Congress had made counter-allegations of horse-trading on AAP.Tells councillors to restore city’s gloryStating that politics is only during the elections, and now such difference should be forgotten, Kejriwal, said, “All workers and councillors should ensure that from whichever party people come to you, there should be no discrimination. Don’t discriminate against those from the BJP, SAD or the Congress. All of them are our own people. Work more for people from other parties so that they vote for us next time,” he said, urging them to work towards restoring Chandigarh’s “glory as City Beautiful”.On the party’s victory in MC elections, Kejriwal, said, “Our workers have to work so hard that people vote for the AAP across the country.”Kejriwal said that the people of Chandigarh have cast their vote after seeing the Delhi model of AAP. Applying the Delhi model in Chandigarh will also make it the most beautiful city. Kejriwal was accompanied by Punjab AAP chief and Sangrur MP Bhagwant Mann, Chandigarh unit leaders Chander Mukhi Sharma and Pardeep Chhabra besides the 14 councillors on the truck from Sector 22, one of the oldest sectors in the heart of Chandigarh. The procession started from Sector 22 Aroma light-point and ended at the Sector 23 light-point. There was also rampant violation of Covid norms during the procession, as none of the leaders on the truck were wearing masks, and those walking alongside the truck were also seen crowding.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-kejriwal-invokes-pledge-to-keep-his-flock-together-ahead-of-mayoral-poll-101640894561446.html
31-12-2021||Chandigarh||Navjot Sidhu pledges support to Harry Mann; says won’t sit idle till Bikram Majithia is punished||Punjab Congress chief Navjot Singh Sidhu addressed a massive rally organised by Sanaur halka in-charge Harinder Pal Singh Harry Mann on Thursday.“Last time Harry Mann lost by just 4,000 votes, but I promise to give Harry Mann a victory with a lead of over 40,000 in the forthcoming Assembly elections,” Sidhu said. He said the party leadership was standing by Mann.Sidhu said he would drive out mafia gangs that have taken over the state and bring a new Punjab model. Attacking Bikram Singh Majithia, he said, “Majithia is hiding out of the fear of the police. I will not sit idle till he is punished.”He said there was a need to implement a cooperative policy to uplift the living standards of farmers. “Under the new Punjab model, cold stores would be set up all over Punjab. Every labourer in the state would be registered so that money could be credited directly to his account and the contractor could enter into any contract. No labourer would be allowed to take wages below ₹350,” Sidhu said.“We have to abolish such a system where workers are not given enough wages and establish panchayati raj,” he said.Harry Mann attacked senior Congress leader Lal Singh for involving in “deceitful deeds in connivance with Akali leader Prem Singh Chandumajra” to defeat him in the upcoming elections.“Lal Singh is plotting to divide the Congress in Sanaur so as to assure the victory of Chandumajra’s son from the Akali Dal, who in return assisted Lal Singh’s son to win in Samana,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/navjot-sidhu-pledges-support-to-harry-mann-says-won-t-sit-idle-till-bikram-majithia-is-punished-101640894442622.html
31-12-2021||Chandigarh||BJP alleges scam in procurement process; Bharat Bhushan Ashu refutes allegations||The local unit of the BJP levelled allegations of massive bungling in the procurement process at various grain mandis of the state.The BJP district unit led by Pushpinder Singhal while addressing the media in the circuit house said a cartel involving contractors, transporters and top bureaucrats of the department led to the allotment of tenders to a handful of contractors for transportation, cartage and labour in the grain market of the state at inflated rates.BJP leader Bikram Singh Sidhu said the grain market contract of Mullapur Mandi, which was allotted at ₹2.5 crore in 2019-20, was inflated to ₹4 crore causing a loss to the Central government exchequer. However, Cabinet minister Bharat Bhushan Ashu was quick to slam the allegations as baseless. He said the entire process of procurement is online and transparent and closely monitored by the Centre. If there would have been any discrepancy, the Central agencies should have taken cognisance of it long ago. The local BJP unit was concocting stories in the wake of the elections, he alleged.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/bjp-alleges-scam-in-procurement-process-bharat-bhushan-ashu-refutes-allegations-101640894441247.html
31-12-2021||Chandigarh||Once Hindu dominated, BJP’s pan-Punjab makeover has no dearth of Sikh faces||The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) has suddenly started expanding its wings, thanks to “poaching” done by the party to become a pan-Punjab party.Once Prime Minister Narendra Modi announced repealing of the laws on November 19, the situation has suddenly changed so much so that the party which till now in Punjab was considered only Hindu dominated is now trying to occupy the political centre stage in the state for the assembly polls with no dearth of Sikh faces being brought from other parties.It all started with a coup of sorts when senior Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) leader and a popular Sikh face from Delhi Manjinder Singh Sirsa joined the party along with Parminder Singh Brar. This was followed by the induction of senior Congress leader and former minister Rana Gurmeet Singh Sodhi into the party fold about a week ago. Two sitting Congress MLAs, Fateh Jung Singh Bajwa and Balwinder Ladi, also joined the party in Delhi. This is besides several other prominent Sikh faces, including former MLAs and MPs.According to information procured from state BJP headquarters, three sitting MLAs, eight former MLAs and several prominent young faces, especially from the Akali Dal, have joined the party.The party has already announced an alliance with the Punjab Lok Congress of Capt Amarinder Singh and the Shiromani Akali Dal (Sanyukt) led by Sukhdev Singh Dhindsa. Unlike in the past when it had an alliance with the SAD and had virtually left the entire “political Sikh space” to that party, the BJP this time wants to engage very much itself in that space as well and as a major and as a dominant partner.That is the reason the BJP is “poaching” on the prominent Sikh faces in the Congress and is encouraging them to join the party instead of the Punjab Lok Congress.In this expansion plan, according to information, Sirsa is playing a key role for the party with most of the joinings of Sikh faces going to his credit.The entire planning for this expansion plan is being run from the national capital.“The BJP is sensing is a chance in Punjab and that is why senior party leaders are directly overseeing the developments and are personally giving confidence to the leaders coming from other parties,” a senior leader said.If reports doing rounds in public space are to be believed, some more Congress, Aam Aadmi Party and Akali leaders, including some MLAs, are likely to join the party in the coming days.The recent joining of Sikh faces has made the BJP visible in those areas as well where it is not even having a proper organisational set-up.“Punjab is a top priority state in our scheme of things and is as important as any other state, like UP or Haryana, and that is the reason we are using all our energies and resources to involve and engage every section of society with the party,” state general secretary, BJP, Subhash Sharma said.He denied any poaching and claimed that leaders are themselves coming to join the party. “The BJP looks like a credible option. The party was not focusing exclusively on a single section of the population, but the entire state and its people,” he claimed.This is for the first time in its recent electoral history that the BJP will be contesting these elections as a dominant political party. For the last few decades, it had restricted itself to 23 assemblies and three parliamentary constituencies only.The party is likely to graduate this time to somewhere between 60 to 70 seats all over the state spread evenly across the three regions of Malwa, Majha and Doaba and from both urban as well as rural segments.
31-12-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab CM Charanjit Channi announces ₹124-cr bonanza for Asha, mid-day meal workers||Giving a bonanza of ₹124.25 crore to Asha and mid-day meal workers as a New Year’s gift, chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi on Thursday announced a fixed monthly allowance of ₹2,500 for Asha workers. It would benefit nearly 22,000 Asha workers. They would also be now entitled to the facility of a cashless health insurance scheme up to ₹5 lakh which would be done by the state government free of cost.Similarly, in a major relief to nearly 42,500 mid-day meal workers working in 19,700 government/aided schools across the state, the CM also announced to enhance their fixed allowance from ₹2,200 to ₹3,000 per month. Besides, Channi also announced that all Asha workers and mid-day meal workers working across the state would be now entitled to full maternity leave on the pattern of other government employees on a regular basis.The CM further declared that all Asha workers and mid-day meal workers would now get the hiked fixed allowance from January 1, 2022, and in the future, they would be getting these allowances for 12 months instead of 10 months earlier.He was addressing a public rally comprising Asha and mid-day meal workers at Dana Mandi. Listing the major initiatives of his government taken for the empowerment of women, the CM said 33% reservation for women in government jobs, 50% reservation in PRIs and ULBs and free bus travel facility were in league with the women-friendly decisions announced on Thursday for Asha and mid-day meal workers.Channi underscored the need to make women equal partners in the process of development to ensure inclusive growth in a holistic manner.Those who were present on the occasion included deputy chief minister OP Soni, cabinet ministers Rana Gurjit Singh, Aruna Chaudhary and Randeep Singh Nabha.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-cm-charanjit-channi-announces-124-cr-bonanza-for-asha-mid-day-meal-workers-101640894383897.html
31-12-2021||Other||Ludhiana | Roads wearing away within days of construction, vigilance probe sought||At a time when the fund-starved municipal corporation has decided to avail a ₹100-crore loan for taking up developmental works ahead of the assembly elections, residents have complained that poor quality material had been used to build the roads, which was wearing away within days. Slamming the municipal corporation for failing to keep a check on the quality of material, shopkeepers on the Dugri main road complained that the road material had started peeling off a day after the road was carpeted in cold weather conditions during the night. Meanwhile, RTI activist Rohit Sabharwal has submitted a complaint with the chief secretary and state vigilance department seeking a probe into the matter, after the road material at recently carpeted Pakhowal Road started wearing off on Thursday.While the civic body is in-charge of construction work on Dugri Road, the Ludhiana Improvement Trust (LIT) has built the Pakhowal Road. Slamming authorities for not keeping a check on quality, residents demanded that action be taken against the contractors and the officials concerned, who have failed to perform their duty.A shopkeeper, Sanjay Lalit, said, “We have been raising hue and cry over the potholed roads for a long time, and the main road had been repaired after six long years, only for the material to wear way in no time. The project cost around ₹4 crore and it is a shame that the authorities did not check the quality of work. The money has been wasted and residents have not gotten any relief.”Lalit suspects that carpeting the road in the cold was responsible for the quick wearing away. Locals have also flagged poor quality road construction work at Old GT Road, Kitchlu Nagar, and Model Town-Jawaddi Road among other areas.Sabharwal says that hard-earned money of the public is wasted in the crores when authorities pay no mind to the quality of work taking place. Several complaints have been submitted by residents from different areas of the city, but to no avail. “The vigilance department should conduct an inquiry into the matter. The contractor should not be paid until the authorities are satisfied with the work. Action should be taken against the officials concerned, who have failed at their duty,” he said. LIT superintending engineer Buta Ram said that after receiving the complaint a team had sent to inspect Pakhowal Road. “If any anomalies are found in the construction work, required action will be taken against the contractor,” he said.Despite attempts to reach MC commissioner Pardeep Sabharwal, he remained unavailable for comment. Earlier, Sabharwal said that a third party had been appointed to check the quality of developmental works. Further, directions have already been issued to the officials at the bridges and roads department of the municipal corporation to stop payment to the contractor, if the quality of work is not up to the mark.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ludhiana-roads-wearing-away-within-days-of-construction-vigilance-probe-sought-101640894382846.html
31-12-2021||Delhi||‘Unhappy over long waits, restrictions’: Commuters vandalise buses in Delhi||Angry over long wait for buses and not being allowed to board due to Covid restrictions, some commuters vandalised six Delhi Transport Corporation (DTC) buses in Badarpur and Sangam Vihar, the police said on Thursday, adding that six people have been arrested. Under the Yellow Alert of the Covid graded response action plan, the Delhi Disaster Management Authority on Tuesday enforced a range of restrictions in view of a spike in Covid cases. According to the alert, only 50% seating is allowed both Metro and public buses. No standing passengers are allowed. The restriction has severely limited the carrying capacity of the two modes of public transport. Additional deputy commissioner of police, south district, Mandava Harsha Vardhan said window panes of six DTC buses were damaged in two separate incidents. “Legal action is being taken in these cases,” he added. Five buses were damaged in Badarpur and one in Sangam Vihar, he added. The first incident was reported at about 8.15am, when the police received multiple phone calls about a traffic jam near Jamia Hamdard on south Delhi’s Mehrauli Badarpur Road. When the police reached the spot, they found that some bus commuters were instigating others to sit on the road as bus drivers and marshals were not allowing more than 17 passengers in each bus in line with the Covid-related curbs ordered by the government, a police officer aware of the case said.“The police tried to convince the agitated public to allow the traffic to pass by, but in vain. After some time, they went on a rampage, and damaged window panes of five buses,” the additional commissioner said, adding that the police did not use any force to disperse the crowd. “In the process one police person also sustained injury,” the officer said.The district police received a second report of passengers creating a ruckus at 10,30am, in Sangam Vihar, about 3km from the spot where the first incident was reported. Police officers said some commuters were angry over not being allowed to board the buses. The additional commissioner said a group of men blocked the road and broke the window panes of a DTC bus around 10.30 am. “Police dispersed the crowd and a case was registered at Sangam Vihar police station,” he said.Four men and two women were arrested under relevant IPC sections, and one juvenile was apprehended, in the two cases, Benita Mary Jaiker, DCP (south) said.Police said all those detained were workers at factories. There were a few passengers in one of the buses, but were quickly evacuated and moved to safety. None of them was injured, police said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/unhappy-over-long-waits-restrictions-commuters-vandalise-buses-in-delhi-101640894381462.html
31-12-2021||Chandigarh||Phagwara man robbed of ₹45-lakh; Kapurthala police crack robbery case, kingpin held||The Kapurthala police have solved the robbery of ₹45 lakh from an employee of a money exchange firm in Phagwara with the arrest of the mastermind and recovered ₹22 lakh and two cars. The accused has been identified as Akhil Rawat, alias Sonu, a resident of Sector 51-A, Chandigarh. Kapurthala senior superintendent of police (SSP) Harkamalpreet Singh Khakh said on December 25, Shankar Maini, an employee of a Hoshiarpur-based money exchange firm, was abducted from the slip road near the main chowk of Phagwara city by three masked men who later abandoned him. The SSP said the police zeroed in on Rawat and arrested him. During interrogation, he confessed to the crime. The police recovered ₹22 lakh cash and a Honda car, which was used in the crime. His accomplices have been identified as Amandeep Singh Makhan of Haryana and Shami Sharma of Mohali.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/phagwara-man-robbed-of-45-lakh-kapurthala-police-crack-robbery-case-kingpin-held-101640894322751.html
31-12-2021||Other||Burning of organic waste in Ludhiana parks: Council of Engineers reiterates complaint||Lambasting the Ludhiana Improvement Trust and municipal corporation for burning organic waste in the green belt of BRS Nagar, Block C, the Council of Engineers filed a complaint with the chief secretary and the Punjab Pollution Control Board on Thursday. A video, which shows a staffer admitting that he had put the waste on fire, has been widely circulated on social media. Demanding that a challan should also be issued against the officials and his staff, members of the engineers’ body said if the state department fails to take action, they will move the National Green Tribunal (NGT)Council of engineers president Kapil Arora said, “This is a clear violation of orders issued by the National Green Tribunal. These incidents add to the pollution in the industrial hub. “The locals visit green belts for improving their health, but the staff is seen polluting the environment, which takes a toll on residents’ well-being . Tall claims are being made by authorities regarding solid waste management, but the ground reality is completely different. A challan of up to ₹25,000 can be issued against the defaulters for burning waste in bulk. We demand that challans also be issued against officials or the contractor hired for maintaining the green belt,” said Arora.Arora and social activist Jaskirat Singh said that they will move the NGT, if the concerned officials fail to take action against the complaints of burning organic waste.LIT superintending engineer Buta Ram said the green belt is maintained by a contractor hired by the LIT, and required action will be taken against the contractor after going through the case.MC recommends FIR for felling treesOn Arora’s complaint, the horticulture wing of the MC has recommended an FIR against unidentified persons to the Sarabha Nagar police for allegedly axing three trees in a park in Block E of BRS Nagar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/burning-of-organic-waste-in-ludhiana-parks-council-of-engineers-reiterates-complaint-101640894321247.html
31-12-2021||Chandigarh||Pall of gloom on Tarn Taran village after jawan killed in Jammu and Kashmir gunfight||A pall of gloom descended on Vein Puin village in Khadoor Sahib sub-division of Tarn Taran district on Thursday after the news of the death of 26-year-old Army jawan, Jasbir Singh, in an encounter with militants in Jammu and Kashmir broke.Six militants, including two Pakistan nationals, have been killed in two separate encounters with the security forces in the Anantnag and Kulgam districts of Jammu and Kashmir, the police said. One army jawan has been killed while two others have been injured during the encounter, they added.The back-to-back encounters started on Wednesday evening after security forces launched anti-terror operations at Nowgam in Anantnag and Mirhama village in the Kulgam district.“At 6 am, the family of Jasbir Singh received a call from army officials informing them that their son received a bullet injury during a gunfight with militants. Later, the officials informed them about his death,” said village sarpanch Balram Singh.Jasbir is survived by his father Gurbhej Singh, his mother Sukhwinder Kaur and his younger brother Ranjit Singh. Jasbir’s sister Rajwinder Kaur is married. Jasbir was the only breadwinner of the family, the sarpanch said.Jasbir joined the army in 2015 after completing his secondary education from the village. He had been posted as Lance Naik in the 19 Rashtriya Riffles in south Kashmir. “He was inclined towards joining the army since his childhood,” the sarpanch said.According to Jasbir’s father, who is a farmer, his son had come home around one-and-a-half month ago when his sister Rajwinder Kaur suffered a heart attack. He said they were planning to get Jasbir married. “My son died for the country and our family will always be proud of him,” his father said. His body will be brought to his native village on Friday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/pall-of-gloom-on-tarn-taran-village-after-jawan-killed-in-jammu-and-kashmir-gunfight-101640894261838.html
31-12-2021||Chandigarh||10 cell phones recovered from Ludhiana Central Jail inmates||The police recovered ten cell phones from the prisoners at the Central Jail on ThursdayThe Ludhiana force is on their toes since the recent bomb blast at Ludhiana Court Complex. On December 27 also 11 mobile phones were recovered from the jail inmates during a special checking.Assistant superintendent of Ludhiana Central Jail Sukhdev Singh said while two mobile phones belonged to prisoners Sukhkiran and Joginder Singh, rest of the mobiles remained unclaimed for which the investigation had been launched.Singh added that a complaint has been lodged with Division Number 7 police regarding the same, following which the accused have been booked under Section 52-A of Prison Act.Assistant sub-inspector Karnail Singh, investigating officer, said, “The recovered mobile phones will be sent to the lab for detailed investigation and both the accused will be brought on production warrant to probe the source through which they carry and use the phones inside the jail.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/10-cell-phones-recovered-from-ludhiana-central-jail-inmates-101640894142953.html
31-12-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana | Proclaimed offender hits man, arrested||A proclaimed offender was arrested by the police on Thursday after he allegedly thrashed a man causing him grievous injuries.The accused Monu of Tajpur was declared a proclaimed offender in some case.by a local court on December 3A team headed by sub-inspector Balwinder Singh held the accused following which he was booked under Sections 323 (punishment for voluntarily causing hurt), 325 (punishment for voluntarily causing grievous hurt), 341 (punishment for wrongful restraint), 506 (punishment for criminal intimidation), 201(causing disappearance of evidence of an offense committed) at Sahnewal Police Station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-proclaimed-offender-hits-man-arrested-101640894141448.html
31-12-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana | PAU’s board appoints Faridkot farmer||Ludhiana The Punjab Agricultural University (PAU) on Thursday appointed Amanpreet Singh Brar, a progressive farmer from Faridkot, as a non-official member of the Board of Management for a period of three years. Making the announcement, registrar Dr Shammi Kapoor said he has been appointed as a replacement of Sardar Devinder Singh Chahal, a progressive farmer from district Patiala. Speaking on the occasion, Brar credited the PAU for honing his skills to become one of the most successful kinnow growers of the region.Brar, who is a resident of Hariyawala village, has been working on diversified farming and has a 20-year-long association with horticulture. He first burst onto the scene in 2002, having undertaken training from Krishi Vigyan Kendra, Faridkot.Buoyed by the success from horticulture, he expanded his farming to a 55-acre-land, cultivating kinnow, grapefruit, sweet orange, summer squash, daisy, bottle gourd, ash gourd, keeping in mind conservation of natural resources.Brar is now focussed on promoting agricultural mechanisation for in-situ straw management and has not burnt paddy straw for the last 10 years. He was bestowed with the presidency of the Crop Residue Management Association for the practice.He has also founded a 250-member group, “Sehatmand Bag”, which promotes commercial horticulture. PAU experts discuss bee management and kinnow marketingDuring a live programme hosted by PAU on Thursday, agriculture experts discussed management of honeybees in the winter season and post-harvest management of kinnow were the areas of focus Highlighting the decrease in temperature, entomology expert Dr Yuvraj Singh Pandha said it became even more important to take proper care of honey bees, saying their hives should be kept safe and protected. PHPTC Director Dr BVC Mahajan, meanwhile, explained the packaging and marketing techniques for the kinnow harvest. Appealing to kinnow growers, he said they should get trained in cultivation of horticultural crops from the Punjab Horticulture Postharvest Technology Centre (PHPTC).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-pau-s-board-appoints-faridkot-farmer-101640894082401.html
31-12-2021||Delhi||Multiplex body meets Delhi deputy CM Manish Sisodia over closure of cinema halls||A delegation of the Multiplex Association of India (MAI) on Thursday met deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia and sought his intervention in reopening cinema halls in the capital that were recently shut amid the uptick in Covid cases. The cinema body is a consortium of more than 11 multiplex chains and represents around 80% of the multiplex industry of India. Under the yellow alert of the Graded Response Action Plan (Grap) to tackle Covid-19, the Delhi government has shut down cinema halls and multiplexes. Most cinema halls reopened only in August after a punishing wave of the Delta variant of the coronavirus. Business, meanwhile, began only last month, they said. When the cinemas were ordered shut, Hindi movie 83, starring Ranveer Singh, and Hollywood’s Spiderman - No Way Home -- dubbed the first blockbuster of the Covid era -- were running at the movie halls.While highlighting the adverse financial situation that the film and cinema industry had been facing since the beginning of the pandemic due to multiple shutdowns, the delegation said that the Delhi government’s decision had brought fresh uncertainty for cinema hall owners. Citing the cancellation of the release of an upcoming Hindi film, Jersey, the delegation urged Sisodia to treat cinemas at par with other industries and allow them to reopen with protocols. “We fully appreciate the challenges at the government’s end in these tough times, however, instead of closing the cinemas, we would urge the Delhi government to consider introducing ‘double vaccination requirement’ to enter cinemas, as is the case in some other states. Alternatively, the seating capacity restriction of 50% can be reintroduced at cinemas,” said Ajay Bijli, chairman, PVR Limited, who led the delegation. The delegation also shared a research report outlining the low covid transmission risk in cinemas across the globe.“Cinemas have already demonstrated an ability to operate safely for the public and employees via the usage of enhanced ventilation systems, enhanced hygiene, and other safety protocols. Not a single outbreak of Covid-19 anywhere around the world has been traced to a cinema,” MAI said in a written statement issued on Thursday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/multiplex-body-meets-delhi-deputy-cm-manish-sisodia-over-closure-of-cinema-halls-101640894081176.html
31-12-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana | Garment traders say increased GST will lead to 20% increase in prices||Ludhiana City traders on Thursday voiced their unhappiness with the union government decision to increase the Goods and Services Tax (GST) on fabrics, garments and hosiery—between 5 to 12%—from January 1, saying that the move will lead to a near-20% hike in the prices of the finished goods.Fearing losses, the hosiery traders complained that the industry is already going through a slump due to the pandemic and the central government’s move will further affect business.They added that the customers, especially the ones belonging to the low income group, will also be impacted before demanding that the government reconsider its stance.The traders in the hosiery hub of the state criticised the central government’s indifferent attitude, saying that their representatives have forwarded multiple messages but have received no response.Punjab Cloth Merchants Association (PCMA) president Sonu Nilibar said, “On an average the prices of garments including ‘Saree’ will be increased by around 20% and the GST rate of thread/fabric/garments has been increased by 7%. The purchasing capacity of the customers has already been reduced during the pandemic due to financial constraints and the government has put an additional burden.”The traders further accused the government of ignoring the needs of the textile sector, which is the second largest employment generator in the country, to benefit the big corporate houses.Akalgarh Market Garment Association president Manpreet Singh Bunty said, “The prices of garments will increase at least by 20 percent and with the prevailing financial condition in the market, the trade will be badly impacted. The government is only concerned about the big houses and small traders and the public has been completely ignored.”The hosiery traders, meanwhile, stated that the move has hit the sector even harder as they were suffering in terms of sales during the winter season.Knitwear and Textile Club president Vinod Thapar said, “The market is already moving through a slump this winter and this can be judged from the fact that many companies have already announced sales. The increase in prices of the products will further reduce the margin for the manufacturers, as the customer will not pay higher and the manufacturer will have to bear the losses from his own pocket. The government should reconsider the decision.”Thapar added that the central government’s move is also expected to increase the cases of bogus billing. Traders pin hopes from GST council meetPCMA president Nilibar said garment traders across the country had high hopes that the government will slash the tax rate during the GST council meeting scheduled to be held under chairmanship of union finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman on Friday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-garment-traders-say-increased-gst-will-lead-to-20-increase-in-prices-101640894021272.html
31-12-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana police recover 17 cartons of illegal liquor||The police recovered 17 cartons of illegal liquor that had Chandigarh labels on them and a two wheeler, while raiding a house in Gareeb Nagri, Jaspal Bangar village, on December 28.The two accused, Arun Kumar and Sahil Kumar, managed to flee from the spot. The raid was conducted by a team headed by inspector Beant Juneja following a tip off. The accused were booked under Excise Act at Sahenwal Police Station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-police-recover-17-cartons-of-illegal-liquor-101640893961636.html
31-12-2021||Delhi||Cold wave returns: Temp falls to 3.4°C, Delhi may be cooler today||Cold wave returned to the capital on Thursday morning, with Delhi’s minimum temperature dropping sharply to 3.4 degrees Celsius – four notches below normal, and the steepest drop this season, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) said, and predicted that the mercury is expected to drop further in the next 24 hours. IMD also issued a yellow alert for December 31 and January 1, asking the city residents to beware of a weather situation, referring to the dropping temperatures. Met officials it was the sharpest drop in the minimum temperature this season so far since the mercury dropped to 3.4°C from 8.4°C recorded on Wednesday. “Cold northwesterly winds have started blowing towards Delhi and with snowfall in the mountains, these ice-cold winds are now impacting the northern plains. Cold wave conditions are expected to persist in Delhi for the next two days as well,” said RK Jenamani, scientist at IMD. The IMD declares a coldwave in the plains, when the minimum temperature is 4.5 degrees or more below the normal mark, or when it drops below the 4-degree mark. On Thursday, the minimum temperature at Safdarjung (3.4 degrees) Ayanagar (3.8 degrees) and Narela (3.2 degrees) were all classified as cold wave. A yellow alert is generally issued by the IMD to inform the general public to ‘be aware’ of a weather situation developing in the next 24 to 48 hours. It issues an orange alert to ask people to ‘be prepared and alert’ for a weather event and a red alert, asking the public to be prepared to ‘take action’ in a weather event. At 3.4 degrees, this is also the season’s second lowest minimum so far, as mercury dropped to 3.2 degrees Celsius on December 20. IMD forecast shows the minimum could drop below the 3-degree mark in parts of Delhi on Friday. “The next two days will have minimum hovering around 3 to 4 degrees Celsius. Some parts may even record a minimum below 3 degrees,” said Jenamani. Safdarjung, the representative weather station for Delhi, recorded a maximum temperature of 19.5 degrees Celsius on Thursday – one degree below normal. The lowest maximum across Delhi was 18.2 degrees, recorded at both Jafarpur and Narela. The IMD has forecasts a similar maximum temperature for Friday.Meanwhile, Delhi’s air remained in the ‘poor’ category, with an air quality index (AQI) reading of 286 recorded on Thursday, according to Central Pollution Control Board’s 4 pm bulletin. It was 267 (poor) on Wednesday. In its nationwide weather bulletin, IMD said that cold wave to severe cold wave conditions prevailed in some parts over Punjab and in isolated pockets over Haryana, Chandigarh, west Uttar Pradesh and north Rajasthan on Thursday.Hisar recorded a minimum of 2°C, Patiala and Ludhiana recorded 3.3 and 3.7 degrees respectively and Churu in Rajasthan had a minimum temperature of 2.5°C on Thursday morning.In a statement, IMD said around 3 to 5 degrees fall in minimum temperatures occurred over Haryana, north Rajasthan, UP and Madhya Pradesh during the past 24 hours.The agency has also forecast heavy rain due as an intense western disturbance is likely to affect the western Himalayan region during January 4 to 7, with possibility of isolated heavy rain on January 5 and 6, and over plains of northwest India during January 5 to 7.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/cold-wave-returns-temp-falls-to-3-4-c-delhi-may-be-cooler-today-101640893901615.html
31-12-2021||Delhi||Delhi govt imposes fines worth ₹3.46 crore for Covid protocol violations in 4 days||The Delhi government imposed fines worth ₹3.46 crore in the last four days against people violating Covid-19 protocol, officials said. Meanwhile, the Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) on Thursday asked districts to strengthen the crackdown to arrest the spread of coronavirus disease (Covid-19).The sub-divisional magistrate (SDM), Seelampur, on Thursday ordered the closure of several markets in the area due to large-scale violations of Covid-appropriate behaviour. “The Seelampur Fruit Market, Seelampur Police Station Road Market, C, D, & F block markets and Nehru Market have been closed from 4pm Thursday to 10pm Friday. Penal action under appropriate laws will be initiated against any shopkeeper found violating the closure order,” said a district official, requesting anonymity. “Three shops found violating the odd-even operational curbs imposed by the DDMA were sealed in Narela market,” said another official. Traders from these markets refused to comment on the action taken against them. According to official documents seen by HT, fines totalling ₹89,67,800 were imposed in 4,589 cases of violations, which include not wearing masks, not following social distancing, spitting in public places and consuming liquor, gutkha and tobacco in public places on December 29. For similar violations on December 28, fines totalling ₹8,63,370 were imposed, and fines totalling ₹81,51,900 were imposed on December 27.The number of total violations under which fines have been imposed has grown in the last three days. On December 27, there were 4,122 cases of violations, 4,392 on December 28 and 4,585 on December 29.On December 26, 4,425 cases of violations were reported.A North district official, who did not want to be named, said presidents and members of various market associations have been informed of the curbs. “The Station House Officers (SHOs) concerned of the police stations have been directed to ensure compliance. We are regularly making announcements in markets regarding the observance of Covid-appropriate behaviour and compliance of curbs imposed by the DDMA, such as the operation of shops on odd-even basis and night curfew. The enforcement teams are inspecting the area and challans are being issued as and when required,” said the official. Several district authorities have formed multiple flying squads to raid crowded hotspots such as restaurants, bars, markets, interstate bus terminals and malls. They are vigilant, especially during the night to ensure restaurants, hotels, and other places do not violate the DDMA ban on gatherings ahead of the New Year. Dr Jugal Kishore, head of the department of community medicine at Safdarjung Hospital, said the authorities should strictly enforce Covid-appropriate behaviour because the Omicron variant is highly transmissible “People, especially those with co-morbidities or those who are immunosuppressed or unimmunised, should avoid public places. However, this variant is not severe and may not have serious consequences. Panic and fear should be strictly avoided,” Dr Kishore said. Chamber of Trade & Industry chairman Brijesh Goyal said all markets must stick to the curbs imposed by the authorities because laxity in compliance can only lead to more cases of Covid-19 and further spread will badly affect traders. “The authorities should understand that shopkeepers do not have the power to enforce Covid-19 protocols on people outside their shops. The authorities should enforce Covid-19 protocols outside the shops. All shops must implement the ‘No Mask No Entry’ directive,” said Goyal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-govt-imposes-fines-worth-3-46-crore-for-covid-protocol-violations-in-four-days-101640893722620.html
31-12-2021||Chandigarh||CMC physiotherapy students shine in university results||Ludhiana Faculty members of the College of Physiotherapy at Christian Medical College and Hospital (CMC&H) on Thursday lauded its 2018 batch students for doing well in the university results, which were announced by the Baba Farid University of Health Sciences, (BFUHS) Faridkot earlier this week.CMC&H director William Bhatti congratulated the students for bringing laurels to the institution and thanked the faculty for nurturing its students.Speaking on the occasion, College of Physiotherapy principal Sandeep Singh Saini lauded the students and members of faculty for their outstanding achievements. He also highlighted the importance of physiotherapy and the rising need of physiotherapists, before pointing out that the department, having been established in early 60s, had become a pioneer in the field..Ankita topped the college’s aggregate result list, securing 72%. Fellow student Niroy, scored distinction in the subject of Orthopaedics while Shivansh, Sukhjeevan Kaur and Simran Bagra also achieved the feat in Research Methodology.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/cmc-physiotherapy-students-shine-in-university-results-101640893721133.html
31-12-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab languages department to hold free Urdu classes||Ludhiana The State Languages Department on Thursday announced the schedule for its free Urdu classes, which will commence from January 3, 2022.A spokesman of the department said they will be holding classes in their office at Punjabi Bhawan, adding that the duration of the course will be six months.He further said the interested individuals can procure the admission forms from the department office itself.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-languages-department-to-hold-free-urdu-classes-101640893541256.html
31-12-2021||Delhi||Delhi met national PM2.5 standards for only half of 2021||The national ambient air quality standard for PM 2.5 (24-hour average) of 60 micrograms per cubic metre was met for around half the year (179 days) in 2021 in Delhi, data by a central government forecasting body has shown. In an analysis released by the System of Air Quality of Weather Forecasting And Research (Safar) on Thursday, Delhi recorded a total of 49 ‘good’ air days – when the 24-hour average PM 2.5 concentration was below 30 micrograms per cubic metre, according to Safar’s air quality index. According to the agency’s data, the city recorded 130 satisfactory air days, where the concentration of PM.5 was between 31 and 60 micrograms per cubic metre.PM 2.5 (particulate matter of 2.5 microns) and PM10 are the primary air pollutants in Delhi. To be sure, according to the Central Pollution Control Board’s (CPCB) air quality index, which takes into account particulate matter and gaseous pollutants, Delhi recorded only one good air day (AQI between 0-50) on October 18 this year. The city recorded AQI of 46 that day. Before this, Delhi saw a good air day on August 31, 2020 (AQI 41), the CPCB data shows.According to Safar’s analysis, Delhi met the ambient air standards for 193 days (51 good and 142 satisfactory days) last year. Delhi saw its cleanest year last year due to Covid-19 induced lockdowns bringing activities to a halt in 2020, the agency said. Safar’s analysis also showed that there were 12 severe air days this year – when the PM 2.5 concentration was over 250 micrograms per cubic metre for a 24-hour period, with another 77 very poor days recorded, when the PM 2.5 concentration was between 121 and 250 micrograms per cubic metre. According to CPCB AQI data, Delhi recorded 18 severe air days (AQI between 401-500) only between November 1-December 30.Gufran Beig, founder project director at Safar, said the trend over the last four years shows that Delhi has had a relatively cleaner year as compared to 2018 and 2019, with 2020 being an exception due to the lockdown. “Data from the last four year shows 2020 is the cleanest year, but we also had a national lockdown in place for long durations. After last year, 2021 has been the cleanest in terms of good and satisfactory days. This year, the good air spell mostly came during the monsoon period, when rains kept Delhi’s air quality in check. We also saw a good prolonged spell of satisfactory air in summer,” said Beig. Anumita Roychowdhury, executive director, research and advocacy at the Centre for Science and Environment (CSE) said long-term trend for Delhi over the last five years has shown an increase in the number of good, satisfactory and moderate days, but Delhi is still unable to get rid of winter smog. “We are still recording similar number of severe air days, which build up during November and December. This shows that the background emissions are fairly high, and as soon as the wind speeds or temperatures drop, we see an episodic event in winters. This requires greater action to tackle sources of pollution not just in Delhi but in the 24 districts of NCR,” she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-met-national-pm2-5-standards-for-only-half-of-2021-101640893481440.html
31-12-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab education dept announces plan to set up guidance cells in government schools||Ludhiana With an aim to provide impetus to students with regard to their academic and psychological growth, the Punjab Education Department on Thursday announced the setting up of guidance cells at the government schools across the state.Chairing a meeting with the deputy district education officers in the state and a school government school principals from districts including Jalandhar, Ludhiana, Kapurthala and Moga, SCERT Punjab assistant director Jyoti Soni directed schools to form guidance committees.The committees are expected to include at least four members including the school head boy and head girl, a representative from the teachers and the principal. Soni said, “Students may not feel comfortable in sharing their problems with the teachers directly and thus the head girl and head boy of a school can play an important role in counselling”. The state had earlier earmarked ₹3,000 per school for a special counselling corner, which would have career brochures or information boards.The Education Department is expected to grant a separate ₹1,000 to all secondary and government high schools in the state, an official said.Trained teachers to be guidance counsellorsA total of 3,636 trained teachers have been deputed as guidance counsellors in various schools.“Our teachers were trained by professional counselors from Chandigarh. We also have a website pertaining to guidance counseling and career counseling. The aim behind this initiative is to heal the mental health of the students,” an official said.Soni said the aim behind this initiative was to reach out to students that are unable to perform due to poor mental health.“Students in the state reach us at our online portal and we make them in touch with our counsellors. At times students have some family issues which affect their growth. Moreover, we aim to make them aware about the prevailing career opportunities after their schooling and thus schools have been instructed to have such guidance corners”, Soni said.Schools equipped with computersNearly 1800 schools across the state have also been equipped with computers for the counsellors.“Guidance counsellors need to be equipped as they can save the data and the history of the students in the computers. Department aims to leave no stone unturned to raise the education standards in the government schools. Along with the career opportunities, counsellors also counsel students pertaining to gender sensitivity, teacher-students relationship, family environment and interpersonal skills,” the official added.DEO secondary Lakhvir Singh Samra said the state is leading in terms of providing career guidance in schools and is putting up sincere efforts to redress problems of students with regard to their health and educational careers.
31-12-2021||Delhi||Omicron has spread in the community: Delhi health minister Satyender Jain||The Omicron variant of the coronavirus has spread in the community, state health minister Satyendar Jain said on Thursday, adding that most patients have had only minor symptoms, while none have so far needed oxygen support.Addressing a press briefing, Jain said more than half the positive samples analysed are of the Omicron variant, according to the latest genome sequencing report, which includes patients with no travel history. “The variant is gradually spreading in the community and its proportion will increase in the coming days,” said Jain.“None of the hospitalised patients have required oxygen at present and most patients have only had minor symptoms. However, the most serious problem is that it is spreading much faster than the Delta variant,” he added. “There are around 200 [Omicron] patients hospitalised in Delhi, of which 115 people were tested positive at the airport have isolated in hospital. Out of these 200, 102 are from Delhi and the other 98 are from outside the city,” said Jain. Jain said that since the hospital occupancy is still low and most Omicron infections mild, the government will not issue a Level 2 [amber] alert under its Graded Covid-19 Response Action Plan for now.“A decision on imposing more curbs will be taken at a DDMA [Delhi Disaster Management Authority] meeting after monitoring the Covid-19 situation,” said Jain. The first phase of curbs under the action plan – the yellow alert - was triggered on Tuesday, putting in place a night curfew from 10pm-5am, shutting schools, colleges, movie theatres and gyms, apart from curbs on public transit. Dr Jugal Kishore, head of the department of community medicine at Safdarjung hospital, said “People must observe Covid-appropriate behaviour and people with co-morbid conditions and immunosuppressed patients must strictly follow all Covid appropriate behaviour,” said Dr Kishore.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/omicron-has-spread-in-the-community-delhi-health-minister-satyender-jain-101640893062523.html
31-12-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana residents spar with authorities over choked sewer line||Ludhiana: High drama unfolded in Manjit Nagar of Ward Number 47 on Thursday after residents objected to the inauguration of a project to lay sewer lines and reconstruct streets by councillor Priya Kaira’s husband Nirmal Kaira and Congress leader Kamaljit Karwal. Demanding resolution of the choked sewer lines at the main road, the residents said that they would not allow the civic body to take up construction work of streets. Residents engaged in heated arguments with Kaira. The inauguration ceremony was eventually completed, but the residents refused to budge from their stand saying they would not allow the authorities to commence work.One of the residents, Navjot Singh, said, “The sewer line at the main road remains choked, due to which the sewer in the streets also get choked and unhygienic conditions have been prevailing in the streets for a long time. We are not against construction of streets, but we demand that the MC should first resolve the issue of choked sewer lines at the main road. Otherwise, there will be no use of installing interlocking tiles and unhygienic conditions will continue to prevail in the area.” Nirmal Kaira, meanwhile, refuted by saying the issue of choked sewer lines is being faced only in one of the streets of the neighbourhood. “The project to install new sewer lines on the main road is also in the pipeline and on Thursday, we visited the area to commence the work to install interlocking tiles in streets. The residents have been assured the issue of sewer lines will also be resolved and a few faulty private connections might also be the reason behind the problem,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-residents-spar-with-authorities-over-choked-sewer-line-101640893061287.html
31-12-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana | Government employees’ strike to continue till December 31||Government employees, who had gone on strike over the non-fulfilment of their demands on December 28, extended their strike till December 31 on Thursday. The employees of different departments, including administration, health, education,and revenue, are protesting under the banner of Sanjha Mulazim (Punjab and Chandigarh) – an umbrella group of government employees associations – have said that they will “gherao’ state cabinet ministers from January 3. Leaders of different employee associations, who met at the Bachat Bhawan in the Mini Secretariat, have decided to take out a rally in Mohali on January 11. They will also gherao the residence of chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi in Chandigarh. “We will oppose the Congress in the upcoming elections, if our demands are not fulfilled,” they said. Union leader Sukhchain Singh Khaira said, “From January 3, we will gherao cabinet ministers when they visit cities or villages to inaugurate different projects. Protest marches will also be organised at district level.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-government-employees-strike-continues-today-101640892881254.html
31-12-2021||Delhi||Man beaten with chair, stabbed in east Delhi’s Seemapuri; 3 arrested||A 24-year-old man was kicked, punched and beaten with a metal chair, and then pinned to the ground and stabbed with a knife by a group of three men in a lane of east Delhi’s Seemapuri on Wednesday evening, as an unidentified person captured the incident on a cell phone video, police said on Thursday after arresting two suspects. The man, identified as Shahrukh (known by his first name) , was taken by local residents to Guru Teg Bahadur Hospital where he succumbed to his injuries, police said. Deputy commissioner of police (DCP), Shahdara, R Sathiyasundaram said the police control room (PCR) was informed about the incident at 5pm. The caller said a man was stabbed at Ration Wali Gali in old Seemapuri area. By the time the first police team responded to the call, Shahrukh had already been shifted to GTB Hospital, the DCP said. A case under sections 302 (punishment for murder) and 34 (acts done by several persons in furtherance of common intention) of the IPC, and sections of the Arms Act was registered at the Seema Puri police station.“The police team gathered footage from the CCTVs installed in the vicinity and identified the accused as Zuber, 30, Zafar, 20 and Aditya,18-- all residents of Seemapuri,” the DCP said. They are all known by their first names only.“Teams were formed, multiple raids were conducted and two suspects, Aditya and Zuber were arrested on Thursday. The third accused, Zafar, is absconding,” the DCP said.Officers associated with the investigation in the case said it was a case of personal enmity since Shahrukh was allegedly having an affair with the sister of Zuber. The officer added that woman was married, and Zuber had earlier warned Shahrukh to keep away from his sister. When the latter did not relent, the suspect planned to kill him. On Wednesday evening, they reached the ration wali gali, where Shahrukh lived, around 5pm.“As soon as they spotted Shahrukh, they started beating him even as no local resident intervened. Soon, one of them picked up a metal chair and hit Shahrukh several times on his head.When Shahrukh fell on the road, Zafar and Zuber pinned him down, and Aditya stabbed him with a knife, first in the back and then a couple of times in the abdomen,” the investigator said. Police said Shahrukh was listed as a ‘bad character’ in Seema Puri police station, a term used by the police to denote that an individual has been accused of multiple crimes and needs to be kept under surveillance. Police said that Shahrukh was externed on January 3, 2020 for a period of two years. “More than 40 cases of mostly pickpocketing at Metro stations were registered against him in Delhi and several cases were registered in UP as well. He was released on bail from Dasna Jail, in UP, a few days back,” the DCP said.Police said that Zuber is a truck mechanic and Aditya and Zafar are unemployed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/man-beaten-with-chair-stabbed-in-east-delhi-s-seemapuri-3-arrested-101640892823674.html
31-12-2021||Chandigarh||Farmers call off sit-in, Ladhowal toll plaza operations resume after 15 months||Fifteen months after farmers laid siege to toll plazas to protest against the contentious farm laws, toll collection was finally resumed at the Ladhowal toll plaza on Thursday. The operations, which were scheduled to resume on December 15 after the government agreed to farmers’ demands, were stalled after Bhartiya Kisan Union (BKU- Kadian) and Kirti Kisan Union members refused to lift the sit-in protest until the hiked toll prices were rolled back. Kirti Kisan Union (KKU) leader Santokh Singh Sekhon said the agitation was lifted after toll authorities agreed to the majority of their demands. “The company agreed to increase the wages of around 200 employees by 10%. They will remove speed breakers that were causing damage to tractor-trollies and heavily loaded trucks. A towing vehicle, and an ambulance will be deployed round-the-clock. They will also streamline the process to avail a monthly pass,” he said. The farmers, however, were not able to get the hike in toll prices and the scrapping of the multiple-visit systrem revoked. Sekhon said, “These issues are pending and will be worked out following a meeting with the surface transport ministry.”A toll plaza official, Shiv Raj, said the discussion was held in an amicable environment, after which protesting farmers agreed to vacate the toll plaza.NHAI project director Virendra Singh said, “We explained to the union leaders that the prices had not been increased, rather they have been adjusted as per the wholesale price index (WPI). An advertisement in this regard was also published in leading daily newspapers in September.”The National Highway Authority of India earns around ₹50 lakh a day from the Ladhowal Toll Plaza alone, and has suffered a loss of around ₹200 crore over the last 15 months.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/farmers-call-off-sit-in-ladhowal-toll-plaza-operations-resume-after-15-months-101640892822105.html
31-12-2021||Gurugram||HSVP opens new portal for allotting alternative plots of land to applicants||The Haryana Shahari Vikas Pradhikaran (HSVP) has launched a portal to provide alternative plots to applicants whose plots are stuck due to legal issues, litigation and other technical reasons, said officials on Thursday.Instead of submitting physical applications, the allottees can now apply for the same online and track their applications, said the HSVP officials, adding that the process will also help in resolving these issues in a time bound manner. Vikas Dhanda, estate officer (one) of HSVP, said that the new online portal for alternative plots has been launched to ensure that the allottees can submit the applications with ease. “The entire documentation has been made online, and instead of visiting different offices, the allottees can now submit their documents and applications at the click of a button. They can also track the status online,” he said, adding that nearly 28 allottees on the Dwarka Expressway have been allotted alternative plots in the past few months.The HSVP officials said that alternative plots are given to allottees in case the original allotted plot cannot be offered for possession due to technical and legal issues, among other such reasons.According to the notice issued by chief administrator of HSVP, Ajit Balaji Joshi, the authority has issued a fresh policy regarding the exchange of plots. The HSVP has also formed an online portal for alternative plot sites, and there the allottees are required to submit their applications through the portal. The request for alternative plots shall not be entertained in any other mode, the notice said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/hsvp-opens-new-portal-for-allotting-alternative-plots-of-land-to-applicants-101640892701185.html
31-12-2021||Lucknow||Priyanka assures help to Dalit girl beaten up in Amethi||LUCKNOW Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra on Thursday spoke to the 16-year-old Dalit girl of Amethi, who was brutally beaten up by a group of people the previous day and assured her of all possible help for getting justice.A video of the incident in which the girl was seen being beaten up went viral on the social media.“I am with you and will fight for you,” Priyanka said to the victim, according to a press statement by the Congress. Accompanied by policemen, UP Congress chief Ajay Kumar Lallu, who was arrested earlier in the day for staging a protest against the BJP government in the state over the incident, went to the girl’s house and met her family members. Later, he told reporters that he got the girl to speak to Priyanka Gandhi.Priyanka said the district administration should ensure the arrest of the accused in 24 hours or else the Congress would launch a major agitation. She said the party workers staged a demonstration in Amethi on Thursday demanding security to the victim and that the accused be tried in a fast track court. Led by Lallu, Congress workers in large numbers started the protest demonstration from the Ramlila Maidan in Amethi, which ended at the Rajiv Gandhi tri-section, where the protesters sat on a dharna. They also raised slogans against the BJP government in the state and chief minister Yogi Adityanath. The police subsequently arrested Lallu. Amethi superintendent of police (SP) Dinesh Singh said the state Congress chief was held for staging a protest without permission and squatting on the road. Congress Legislature Party (CLP) leader Aradhana Mishra ‘Mona’ termed the Amethi incident shameful and questioned the silence of union minister Smriti Irani who is Amethi MP. She said the incident was an outcome of anti-Dalit and anti-women policies being pursued by the BJP government. She alleged that state government was making attempts to protect the accused responsible for the incident. “Crime against Dalits and women has gone up during the tenure of BJP government in the state,” said PL Punia, former chairperson of National Commission for Scheduled Castes.Senior Congress leader Pramod Tiwari demanded an apology from Prime Minister Narendra Modi and others for the incident. Inputs from PTI||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/priyanka-assures-help-to-dalit-girl-beaten-up-in-amethi-101640892581128.html
31-12-2021||Gurugram||Notices issued to four illegal colonies in Farrukhnagar, cease work order given||The department of town and country planning (DTCP) on Thursday issued fresh notices to four illegal colonies being developed in the district, taking the total number of such colonies in Gurugram’s Farrukhnagar to 11, said officials.The enforcement wing of the DTCP also issued notices to commercial establishments being run in residential houses in the Vatika India Next colony, and asked the owners to cease such operations at the earliest. A survey on commercial activities in Sushant Lok has been completed and required action will be initiated in coming weeks, it said.RS Bhath, district town planner (enforcement), said that the department has served notices to the colonisers of four new illegal localities in Farrukhnagar. “Earlier, we issued notices to seven illegal colonies... and recently, the enforcement team served notices to four new localities there. A comprehensive demolition drive is being planned in the area, and we will stop establishment of these illegal colonies at the initial stage itself,” said Bhath, adding that these colonies were being developed on nearly 20 acres.According to the officials, the DTCP is planning to carry out the demolition drive by January 15, 2022.The DTCP officials also said that demolition drives were halted due to recent court orders on ban on construction and demolition activities, but they will resume taking action against the violators from January next year. Bhath also said that it was decided during the recent task force meeting, a monthly conference chaired by the deputy commissioner, that illegal colonies will now be identified at the initial stage and development will be halted there at the earliest. “The enforcement teams will continuously patrol around the outskirts of the city and identify such colonies at the initial stage itself,” Bhath said.In another development, the enforcement wing of the DTCP also issued notices to six establishments for running commercial activities in blocks H and F of the Vatika India Next colony. “People are running clinics, saloons and beauty parlours without taking permission from the department. They are violating the rules. The property owners were served notices, and action will be taken after they submit their replies,” Bhath added. The DTCP officials said that action against commercial activities in Sushan Lok will also be carried out as the officials have completed the survey.“We sealed several properties in the Sushant Lok area after we got complaints of commercial activities being carried out in the residential area. The sealing drive against such commercial establishments will continue in the coming weeks,” Bhat said. 
31-12-2021||Gurugram||Nearly 450 ‘essential’ vehicles of Gurugram civic body to get GPS trackers||Nearly 450 essential vehicles of the Municipal Corporation of Gurugram (MCG) will soon be fitted with a global positioning system (GPS) tracking system and monitored at its control room in Sector 39, which opened earlier this month, said officials on Thursday.A GPS tracking unit is a navigation device, normally on a vehicle, asset, person or animal, which uses the GPS to determine its movement and determine its location. GPS trackers connect to a series of satellites for the location determination.The MCG has nearly 350 vehicles involved in garbage collection, 80 tractors for construction and demolition (C&D) waste collection and 13 mechanised sweeping machines -- each of which will be tracked through the control room from January 2022.Officials of the civic body said that the process of fitting GPS machines will be completed by January next year, and linked to the Sector 39 control room.“Work on fitting the GPS machines to the nearly 450 MCG vehicles has started. The process will be completed by next month. With this, we will be able to have a constant supervision on all the essential vehicles and ensure that those ply at their designated sites. This will enable the MCG to serve the residents in a better manner,” said Sunder Sheoran, executive engineer, Swachh Bharat Mission (SBM) of MCG.The MCG officials said that the move will not only help them to keep 24x7 track of the vehicles, but also ensure that issues like non-collection of garbage among others are being minimised.“We have been getting a lot of complaints from residents, who often complain that garbage is not being collected from their houses regularly. With the new GPS machines and the Swachh Nagar app, we will have a complete control over the situation, and we will be able to ensure an upgraded door-to-door collection of garbage,” said a senior MCG official privy to the matter.In the Swachh Nagar app, garbage collectors scan QR codes installed outside people’s houses or on the floors of buildings. Details such as the time when the waste was lifted, or if the house owners were not present at that time are being sent to the residents and senior MCG officials for better management.In October, MCG commissioner Mukesh Kumar Ahuja directed the MCG officials to set up the control room -- the first one -- for monitoring its essential vehicles. The control room will also monitor illegal waste dumping at unauthorised sites, to curb such activities. Strict action will be taken against violators and they will have to pay fines too, said the officials.The MCG officials also said that the purpose of monitoring mechanised sweeping machines is to ensure that the Graded Response Action Plan (GRAP) measures are adhered to. Each mechanised sweeping machine operates during an eight-hour shift, over a pre-decided 14 kilometres stretch and disperses over 16,000 litres of treated water.“Since all the routes are pre-decided, the responsibility of the control room will be to ensure that the sweeping machines are being run on requisite routes, failing which senior MCG officials will take action against the violators,” said a senior MCG official, requesting anonymity.
31-12-2021||Mumbai||Omicron is fast replacing Delta: experts||Mumbai: The new, highly mutated Omicron variant of the SARS-CoV-2 is fast replacing the Delta variant in Mumbai health experts said as the city recorded 3,555 fresh cases on Thursday. Traits in the emerging third wave including mild infections with lower hospitalization rates and a high proportion of breakthrough (post-vaccination) infections are all indicators of the widespread nature of Omicron, members of the state Covid task force said. “The nature of the current surge is a clear indicator that the Omicron variant is replacing Delta,” said infectious disease expert Dr Om Srivastava, who is also a member of the state’s Covid-19 task force. “This is a natural progression of a virus, with newer variants dominating the older ones.” The confirmation of the Omicron variant is done through genome sequencing. So far, more than 130 confirmed cases of the variant have been detected in Mumbai, while 450 cases have been detected in the state. However, not all samples of swabs collected around the city — or state — are sent for genome sequencing, thus it is difficult to gauge the real spread of the variant. The city’s first wave was driven by the original Wuhan virus. The second wave, much more devastating than the first, was driven by the Delta variant. While many other variants have been in circulation, the emergence of Omicron is a cause for concern because of its high transmissibility and immune escaping capabilities. “Similar to what other countries have experienced, the disease spectrum in the cases that we are seeing is mild. Many patients are coming with breakthrough infections. All these signs tell us that a lot of Omicron is in circulation and we are likely to see a huge number of cases in the third wave,” said Dr Tanu Singhal, an infectious disease expert from Kokilaben Dhirubhai Ambani Hospital. Experts said the third wave is likely to have a greater number of cases, but is unlikely to see severe disease and mortality. “Since Omicron causes milder disease and with prior protection that we have from vaccinations and infections, the fresh wave is less likely to strain hospitals,” said Dr K Srinath Reddy, president of the Public Health Foundation of India. The best strategy to tackle the Omicron outbreak is to create hurdles in its spread, he said. “We have to create a bumpy road for Omicron by wearing masks, avoiding crowds, vaccinating and following other such measures. This will help in spreading out the cases.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/omicron-is-fast-replacing-delta-experts-101640891865450.html
31-12-2021||Gurugram||Hindu group disrupting Christmas event in Pataudi was ‘unfortunate’: Haryana CM||Days after a Christmas congregation at a primary school in Pataudi in Haryana’s Gurugram was disrupted by a Hindu group, claiming that the gathering was an attempt at religious conversion, state chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar on Thursday said that the “unfortunate’’ incident should not have happened.When asked about the Christmas event disruption and the ongoing namaz row in Gurugram, and the impact of all these on the image of the state, at a press conference in Delhi on Thursday, Khattar said, “The unfortunate incident should not have happened. If people have problems with an event, they should talk about it and resolve the issue.’’The chief minister was addressing a press conference at Haryana Bhawan in New Delhi.On Saturday (December 25), the group, ‘Dharam Jagriti Mission’, disrupted the event organised at the school to celebrate Christmas, said residents on condition of anonymity. A video shared on social media showed some people chanting Jai Shri Ram at the Christmas event, as a man snatched the microphone from a woman singing a devotional song.RP Pandey, president of Dharam Jagriti Mission, had said, “Some women had reached out to residents and invited them for the Christmas programme. Through songs and prayer, they promote their religion and pollute the minds of children about sanatan dharma.” He alleged that the programme was an “attempt to lure the poor and convert them to Christianity”.The event was organised in his “personal capacity” by a local resident, who is a member of the ‘House of Hope’, the pastor of the organisation said, asking not to be named. “We were present when this unfortunate incident took place. They started shouting slogans and stopped the event... We are not going to file any complaint,” the pastor said, also requesting that the name of the school is not revealed.Police have made no arrests yet, saying no complaint was made. “Police have not received any complaint from any group,” said inspector Shailender Kumar, station house officer (SHO) of Pataudi police station.The local administration is yet to respond to the matter.The incident came on the heels of regular disruption of Friday prayers by Muslims by Hindu groups in Gurugram.Hindu right-wing groups have been protesting against Friday namaz in open public spaces in Gurugram for the last three years. In 2018, the administration designated 37 sites for Muslims. However, in November, the number of sites was cut down to 20 after members of the right-wing groups and locals continued to protest and disrupt prayers. Muslims, however, have maintained that they were forced to use public spaces because of the inadequate number of mosques in the city.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/hindu-group-disrupting-christmas-event-in-pataudi-was-unfortunate-haryana-cm-101640891861051.html
31-12-2021||Lucknow||No breach of privacy in devices distributed to students: UP govt||LUCKNOW The state government on Thursday categorically refuted claims of breach of privacy in tablets and smartphones distributed by chief minister Yogi Adityanath to students.The devices were being distributed as part of the UP government’s ‘free tablet and smartphone distribution campaign’ for the technical empowerment of youth in the field of education. The target was to distribute 1 core gadgets across the state.“The tablets and smartphones distributed by the government are completely safe. Personal data of students, including contacts, web browsing history, emails, text messages, passwords, photographs, files and personal profile of users is completely safe and protected,” according to a press release issued by the state government spokesperson.This comes after opposition parties alleged that the data of students was not safe on the gadgets given to them by the government recently.“The government cannot monitor the private data of students. To share educational content with students, such a method is being used where breach of privacy is not possible,” reads the press release.The government clarified that the Digi Shakti app installed in the gadgets will be used by universities and the department concerned to share educational content, stated an official.The government will also use the same app to send notifications regarding exams and employment opportunities. The state government will partner with Infosys to manage the app, he added. Special secretary (IT and electronics department) Kumar Vineet said: “Distribution of tablets and smartphones is just the beginning of the scheme. Using these gadgets to provide education, preparation for exams by providing useful content so that the students can become self reliant is the actual objective of the scheme.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/no-breach-of-privacy-in-devices-distributed-to-students-up-govt-101640891741540.html
31-12-2021||Lucknow||Fake ‘sage’ arrested for selling drugs in Lucknow||The city police arrested an elderly man after six kilograms of marijuana was recovered from his possession in Krishna Nagar area on Thursday. A pressnote issued by the Lucknow police stated that the accused Ghan Shyam Shukla, 60, a resident of Maharajganj was part of a gang that supplied drugs in the state capital. “He used to be in a sage’s garb and moved around the city in cabs. Shukla had only recently returned from his native district after collecting marijuana consignment from drug peddlers active on India-Nepal border,” the press note read. The pressnote said Shukla’s accomplice Awadesh Mishra alias Sonu was absconding and the two together used to hire cab and move around the city to deliver marijuana consignment to customers. The duo usually used sold drugs to and through trusted customers. The press note said the police were making efforts to arrest Sonu. Shukla has been sent to jail after producing him before the competent court.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/fake-sage-arrested-for-selling-drugs-in-lucknow-101640891682996.html
31-12-2021||Mumbai||45% of Omicron cases in Maharashtra from those sans international travel history||Mumbai: Nearly 45% of the 450 Omicron cases detected in Maharashtra are from those without any international travel history. Based on the data, health experts now worry that Covid-19’s new variant is in a higher transmission phase. Of the 450 Omicron cases detected till Thursday, 206 did not have any travel history. State health officials said that of the 206 patients, the genome sequencing reports of 38 patients were declared on Wednesday and 168 patients on Thursday. Infectious disease expert Dr Tanu Singhal said that a considerable number of cases could go untested as the Omicron infection is mild. The genome sequencing of samples from Maharashtra is being carried out at various laboratories including the National Institute of Virology in Pune, Indian Institute of Science Education and Research (IISER) and Kasturba Hospital’s laboratory in Mumbai. In addition to collecting samples of international travellers and their contacts for genome sequencing, the civic body in Mumbai also began community surveillance from December 21 in various wards. From this surveillance, 375 samples were sent for genome sequencing at the Kasturba Hospital’s laboratory and of them, 141 or nearly 38% have been detected with the Omicron variant. The 141 cases were detected in 22 of the city’s 24 wards. Of these 89 patients were male and 52 were female. The most number of cases- 21- have been detected from the K-West ward, followed by D ward (11 cases), H west and F North (10 each) and G South and M West (8 each). An official said that the findings indicate the community spread of the variant, but they would wait for at least two more rounds of genome sequencing from the community surveillance, to confirm it. State’s Covid-19 task force member Dr Shashank Joshi however confirmed that the omicron variant is in the community outbreak phase and the third wave is being driven by this highly mutated variant.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/45-of-omicron-cases-in-maharashtra-from-those-sans-international-travel-history-101640891681517.html
31-12-2021||Mumbai||Resident doctors to intensify strike amidst Omicron spurt||Mumbai: As part of their ongoing protest against the delay in NEET-PG counselling, resident doctors from KEM Hospital, Lokmanya Tilak Municipal Medical College and General Hospital (LTMG) and JJ Hospital on Thursday withdrew their emergency services. This was done to show solidarity with the doctors who were attacked and then arrested in Delhi for participating in the protest. Nearly 1000 resident doctors from the three hospitals participated in the strike by terminating the Outpatient Department (OPD) services, Intensive Care Unit and emergency department. They however continued to work in the Covid-19 wards. The strike at LTMG Hospital began at 2 pm on Thursday and 5 pm at KEM Hospital. Resident doctors have been protesting against the delay in PG admissions for the past several weeks. A member of the Maharashtra Association of Resident Doctors (MARD) said they have been working with the two-thirds workforce at the moment and new admissions will ensure 45,000 more doctors enter the healthcare sector, which is very important considering the ongoing pandemic. In addition to the PG issue, the resident doctors were also agitated about the arrests of doctors in Delhi for participating in a peaceful protest. The protesting doctors have highlighted both these issues in their letters to the authorities including their respective deans and the Directorate of Medical Education and Research (DMER). Among those detained in Delhi included two Mumbai doctors - Pravin Dhage, general secretary of MARD and Dr Pranav Jadhav, vice-president of MARD- who had gone to Delhi on Monday to participate in the protest. The doctors plan to intensity their strike further from Friday, with more colleges expected to join. Mangesh Bansode, vice president of MARD said that a total of 6000 doctors from 18 medical colleges all over Maharashtra will be on strike from Friday. “The protest will continue until the last date of NEET-PG counselling is released,” he said. Around 400 resident doctors from BYL Nair hospital in Mumbai Central also plan to withdraw their services from Friday. Hospital authorities have called in senior doctors and faculty members to take charge during the ongoing protest. “If the strike continues, the hospital will assign senior doctors and hospital faculty members to attend the patients from Friday. All the elective surgeries will be postponed,” said Dr Mohan Joshi, dean of LTMG Hospital. KEM Hospital’s dean Dr Hemant Deshmukh said that he is trying to convince the resident doctors to return to work.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/resident-doctors-to-intensify-strike-amidst-omicron-spurt-101640891441722.html
31-12-2021||Mumbai||Sanjay Raut criticises PM Modi for not wearing mask||MUMBAI: The Shiv Sena has fired a fresh salvo at the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), with Sena Rajya Sabha MP Sanjay Raut attacking Prime Minister Narendra Modi for not observing Covid protocol.Raut, who was seen without a mask at an event in Nashik, said that he was merely emulating Modi. “Our Prime Minister asks everyone to use masks, but does not wear one himself. So, we listen to the Prime Minister and do not use one,” said Raut, adding that Modi was not seen wearing a mask at public events and international engagements. By contrast, his party president and chief minister Uddhav Thackeray always masked himself in public, Raut stressed. In the same breath, Raut said that Covid-19 and Omicron cases are rising steadily and that this has led to restrictions being imposed at night. He said that if similar restrictions are imposed during the day, it would affect the economic cycle of the state.Raut also agreed with Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) supremo Sharad Pawar’s statement that the BJP had made overtures to him to form a government in Maharashtra in 2019 and added that the BJP was ‘desperate’ to be in power. The Shiv Sena leader said that they were in the loop about these developments and “at that time, there were no secrets between us.” “There was transparency even in (deputy chief minister) Ajit Pawar’s (early morning) swearing in (with former chief minister and incumbent leader of opposition Devendra Fadnavis),” Raut said, while refusing to elaborate further.Reacting to Raut’s comments, BJP MLA Atul Bhatkhalkar lambasted him for seeking publicity through his statements. “He is just interested in seeking publicity,” said the BJP MLA.Sharad Pawar on Wednesday in Pune said that he was approached by PM Modi for an alliance in Maharashtra in 2019 and that he clearly told the Prime Minister that it was not possible. “It was his (Narendra Modi’s) wish that we (NCP and BJP) should come together. However, I went to his office and told him it was not possible. I told him that I do not want to keep him in the dark. Our stand is different,” Pawar recalled during an event organised by Marathi daily newspaper Loksatta in Pune.When asked about the Prime Minister’s reaction to his response, the NCP chief said that PM Modi asked him to “think over it”. “He (Prime Minister) might have thought that by forming this alliance, they could have formed a stable government in Maharashtra,” Pawar added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/sanjay-raut-criticises-pm-modi-for-not-wearing-mask-101640891322373.html
31-12-2021||Noida||Noida: Farmers to continue protest against authority if all demands not met||The agitation of the farmers, who have been protesting against the Noida authority to press their demands for better compensation and additional benefits in lieu of the land they have given for development, entered the 121st day on Thursday, with farmers reiterating that they will not call off their agitation till all their demands are met.Top officials are having detailed discussions with the farmers to pursue them to end the agitation, which has disrupted work at the authority’s main administrative building in Noida’s Sector 6, the spot where the farmers have stayed put since September 1 to compel the authority to accept their demands.A series of discussions ensued between the officials of the Noida authority and the farmers from Thursday morning to evening. The authority agreed on some of the demands but refused proposals, such as hiked compensation and residential plots in addition to what the farmers have already been given. Farmers have demanded 64% more compensation for their land, settlement of Abadi land, residential plots, unregulated development of buildings in villages, leaseback of land to farmers among other issues.“So far, the authority has not accepted all our demands. If they do not accept all our demands, we will not end our agitation and continue to protest come what may,” said Sukhbir Yadav, founder president of Bharatiya Kisan Parishad who is leading the protest.Farmers from 80 villages are extending their support to the agitation and attending the protest in large numbers.At least 12 farmers have launched a fast unto death at the Sector 6 protest ground and have refused to end the fast till all the issues are resolved.“The authority should accept all demands because most of the farmers in 80 villages, who gave their land for development of the city, are in a serious economic crisis because. Their means of livelihood are limited with the authority not giving us plots and not settling the Abadi issue,” said Rinku Chauhan, a farmer from Nagli Wazidpur.The authority is ready to settle the Abadi issue as per the demands of the farmers, letting farmers build houses as per their needs without building regulations but are not agreeing to the demand of additional compensation.“Our negotiations are in the final stage and we hope the protest will end tomorrow (Friday),” said Praveen Mishra, additional CEO of the Noida authority.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/noida-farmers-to-continue-protest-against-authority-if-all-demands-not-met-101640891320922.html
31-12-2021||Chandigarh||Haryana told to check pollution in river Yamuna||The Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) has directed Haryana to take immediate steps to stop untreated industrial and domestic effluent being discharged into river Yamuna.The directions were issued under the Water (Prevention and Control of Pollution) Act, 1974. As per the letter (HT has a copy of which) the CPCB chairman has directed the Haryana State Pollution Control Board to ensure 100% treatment of sewage and industrial effluents by providing adequate infrastructure in a time-bound manner in compliance with the directions of the National Green Tribunal (NGT) and submit the compliance report.The state was also told to enhance monitoring frequency of drains, river Yamuna, industries, sewage treatment plants (STPs), common effluent treatment plants (CETPs), and strict enforcement of discharge norms should be initiated against the violators under the Water (Prevention and Control of Pollution) Act, 1974.The state was also directed to carry out random inspections of polluting industries in the catchment area of river Yamuna and identify violating industries to impose environmental compensation.“The criminal proceedings also be initiated against such violators with an effective surveillance and directions should be issued to all district magistrates to prevent unauthorised disposal of septic tank waste in drains and river Yamuna,” reads the letter.It emphasised that all authorities of Delhi, Haryana and Uttar Pradesh should coordinate with each other to resolve the spike in ammoniacal nitrogen and phosphate surfactants in Yamuna.The untreated effluent being discharged into Yamuna from Karnal’s Indri block is a major source of pollution in the river water. As per reports, around 70 million litre untreated effluent is coming from the industrial city of Yamunanagar and mixes in Yamuna near Nabipur village via Dhanaura escape canal.Even as the issue was highlighted in almost all monthly meetings of the River Rejuvenation Committee, as of now, there is nothing visible on ground to check the flow of toxic water into the river.The status report of the implementation of river action plans submitted in the monthly meeting on November 2, highlighted that the sewage generation in the industrial cities is much higher than the quantum of sewage reaching up to STPs, “as in Yamunanagar 29.30 MLD sewage was generated but the actual discharge reaching the STPs was 43.70 MLD. And in Panipat, the actual discharge reaching to the STPs was 42MLD against the 81.80 MLD sewage generated”.“Also, of total 59 STPs in the Yamuna catchment, only six STPs have been upgraded and rest do not meet the prescribed standards. Only 21 STPs are complying even though the deadlines for most STPs have already expired,” reads the report.HSPCB member secretary S Narayanan said, “We have issued strict directions to all departments and officials concerned for compliance.”He said almost all the points (focused in the letter) are included in the river action plans that are being implemented and getting reviewed at the state-level. He said the action taken report will soon be submitted to the CPCB.
31-12-2021||Lucknow||Assured EC of free, fair polls, says new UP chief secy after taking charge||Lucknow: Senior IAS officer of 1984 batch Durga Shankar Mishra took over as Uttar Pradesh’s new chief secretary here on Thursday, replacing RK Tiwari. Mishra worked as secretary, union ministry of housing and urban affairs and was repatriated to state cadre for appointment as UP’s chief secretary on Wednesday. He was due to retire on December 31, 2021 and has been given one year’s extension now. Tiwari, who has been empanelled for deputation to the Centre, has been placed on the waiting list. “Uttar Pradesh is going to have elections. After coming from New Delhi, my first meeting was with the Election Commission of India. The ECI has expressed concern in view of the prevailing situation on the Covid front. I have assured the ECI of free, fair and peaceful election,” said Mishra while speaking to media persons after assuming charge as the new chief secretary. Mishra said he would work to achieve 100 percent vaccination and ensure that the Covid curfew was implemented and all the Covid protocols were followed. Replying to a question, he said the SMART Cities mission was being implemented in 10 cities of the state and his endeavour would be to turn the same into a movement. “We will convert the mission to a movement,” said Mishra. “There has been a wave of change in the past seven years and Uttar Pradesh too has moved forward. For me this responsibility is service. I am thankful to Prime Minister Narendra Modi and chief minister Yogi Adityanath for giving me this opportunity to serve again in the state where I was born and brought up,” he said. Mishra spoke about the work he did as union secretary, housing and urban affairs and said he would promote affordable rental housing scheme in the state. This would ensure that the poor need not stay in slums, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/assured-ec-of-free-fair-polls-says-new-up-chief-secy-after-taking-charge-101640891142689.html
31-12-2021||Mumbai||BMC to take up construction of Dahisar-Bhayander Link road from MMRDA after a 5-year hiatus||The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) is all set to take up the construction of the much anticipated Dahisar-Bhayander Link Road from next year, after a five year long hiatus.At present there is no direct motorable road between Dahisar and Mira Road and Bhayander and commuters traveling in this route have to take a 10-km long traverse through the Western Express Highway (WEH). The project was proposed by the Mumbai Metropolitan Region Development Authority (MMRDA) back in 2016. However, in the last five years the project didn’t see the light of the day. The Mira Bhayander Municipal Corporation (MBMC) had also written to this agency back in March 2018, urging them to initiate construction work.Meanwhile, considering the delay, the responsibility of this project was transferred to the BMC on December 16. According to the preliminary proposal of this project, the road will be 45-metre wide and of the total 4.5 km stretch, 1.5-km will be within the BMC area and 3-km will be within the jurisdiction of the MBMC.The cost of the project has been pegged at ₹3,096 crores. The BMC also stated that after the completion of this project the money spent on the construction in the MBMC area will be reimbursed to the BMC by the MMRDA.P Velrasu, additional municipal commissioner (Projects) said that fresh tenders will be floated in 2022 and the construction works will start by June next year.“We are eyeing a four year long deadline for this project. This road will be a missing link between the two cities and will ease commute time by a significant margin and will benefit more than ten lakh commutters that travel to and fro from Mira-Bhayander to Mumbai daily. This link road will also decongest the traffic at the WEH,” Velrasu said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/bmc-to-take-up-construction-of-dahisar-bhayander-link-road-from-mmrda-after-a-5-year-hiatus-101640891140976.html
31-12-2021||Noida||Noida restaurants demand increased operating hours for New Year’s eve||After the election commission announced an extra hour for polling during the Uttar Pradesh elections early next year, the hospitality industry has demanded the same treatment for restaurants.Owners of several restaurants in Noida said night curfews imposed by various states lead to restaurants suffering the heaviest losses. They said that if extra time can be given for polling, similar logic should work for restaurants.“Just as cases started to increase, a night curfew was imposed. The food and beverage (F&B) sector, especially restaurants, are worst-affected, as most of our business comes from dinner meals, which reduces considerably if people have to leave by 10pm or 11pm. Shops can still work as they shut before the night curfew, but we face heavy losses. If extending timing while ensuring social distancing works for elections, it is only fair to allow the same for restaurants too,” said Varun Khera, head of the Noida chapter of the National Restaurant Association of India (NRAI).Restaurant owners also said that it is easier to ensure social distancing and follow other guidelines at restaurants than at an election rally or in queues for polling. “The F&B industry just recovered and learned how to deal with Covid-19. We comply with Covid-19 guidelines, but are still at the mercy of the government whereas this is not applicable to elections. That is just not fair. The government also needs to think about the economic aspects of such measures,” said Mainak Aggarwal, director, Feast & Fizzy Hospitality Pvt Ltd.There are around 700 dine-in restaurants in Noida and Greater Noida. Owners said that they had only started seeing better business in the past three months. But the night curbs have spoiled all business that the restaurants could have seen during the Christmas and New Year’s festivities.“I appreciate the decisions the government has taken to reduce infections, but if an extension of just two hours on New Year’s Eve can bring happiness to people who want to celebrate outside, we expect them to allow it, just like an exception for the election process. We are still complying with all the guidelines issued by the government and expect a small extension,” said Ajeet Sharma, owner, Time Machine, Noida.Meanwhile, Noida traders have started promoting policies such as “no mask, no sale” and “no vaccine, no sale” in market areas. Trader organisations have asked shop owners to ensure that all customers wear masks at all times in the market. “We have also asked store owners to ask their customers to get their vaccine doses at the earliest. Some shops have already made it a policy to ensure that only those with masks enter shops and some others also give a mask to those who are not wearing one. Traders now realise that following Covid-19 protocols is extremely essential for safety as well as to ensure that there is no more lockdown that can hamper business,” said SK Jain, convener, Confederation of All India Traders (CAIT), and president of Sector 18 market association.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/noida-restaurants-demand-increased-operating-hours-for-new-year-s-eve-101640891081041.html
31-12-2021||Chandigarh||Haryana gets its own genome lab to detect Omicron variant||The Haryana health department will now be able to do in-house whole genome sequencing (WGS) for detecting coronavirus variants including Omicron in infected individuals.State health minister Anil Vij said the central government’s department of biotechnology has approved a genome sequencing lab to be set up at Rohtak’s Maharishi Dayanand University (MDU).Vij said the lab has got the certificate to operate and will soon carry out the work of WGS. The lab has been set up at MDU, Rohtak by NGO Path, funded by the Rockefeller Foundation of United States, for research in genomics.“The lab will help in faster detection of Omicron variant of coronavirus and reducing dependency on the Institute of Genomics and Integrative Biology (IGIB), Delhi,” Vij said.The minister, who held a review meeting of the health department, said Covid vaccination for children in the age group of 15 to 18 years will start from January 3. Booster doses of vaccine for healthcare and frontline workers and precaution doses for people above 60 years of age with co-morbidities will start from January 10, which will be available to the beneficiaries after completion of nine months or 39 weeks from the date of the second dose.Health officials said 15.40 lakh children will be vaccinated in Haryana. These children will be given a dose of Covaxin and for this, registration and appointment will be made through CoWin.It was informed in the meeting that self-registration can be done through existing account on CoWin or by creating a new account through a unique mobile number. In addition, appointments can be booked online or onsite (walk-in).It was informed in the meeting that the total number of healthcare and frontline workers in Haryana is about five lakh, of which, healthcare workers are around 2.50 lakh and frontline workers around 2.50 lakh. The number of people with co-morbidities above 60 years of age is about 5.78 lakh.‘Curbs necessary’Vij said in view of increase in coronavirus cases, he has written to the chief secretary seeking a ban on all kinds of rallies, processions, marches and gatherings. He said it is necessary to put curbs to stop crowding at public places.Former minister asks state govt to ramp up medical infrastructureMeanwhile, former Haryana minister Sampat Singh has asked the state government to immediately ramp up medical infrastructure in government hospitals to combat the impending third wave of coronavirus pandemic due to the spread of the Omicron variant.In a statement, he said the government should arrange for adequate medical and paramedical staff in all government medical facilities in rural and urban areas.Most hospitals and health centres lack ample staff and equipment including medicines, he said, adding that the government should allocate special budget to the health department to prepare for facing the third wave of the pandemic.“No posts should be vacant and all arrangements should be made to meet any eventuality,” he said.Recalling the situation during the first two waves, he said the government was caught on the wrong foot as it had failed to create adequate infrastructure in time.“The state faced an acute shortage of beds, ICUs, medicines and oxygen supplies. Doctors and paramedics were hurriedly transferred from rural health centres to cities leaving the rural population to fend for themselves. This should not be repeated,” the former minister said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/haryana-gets-its-own-genome-lab-to-detect-omicron-variant-101640890961973.html
31-12-2021||Noida||Another sarus crane dies in Dhanauri wetlands, third fatality in a week||An adult sarus crane was found dead at Dhanauri wetlands in Gautam Budh Nagar on Wednesday evening, five days after a bird of the same breed was found dead and another found unconscious on December 25.  Dhanauri wetland is a major habitat for sarus crane in Dankaur, Gautam Buddh Nagar. Sarus crane is a vulnerable species listed by the International Union for Conservation of Nature (IUCN). District forest officer P K Srivastava said, “We received a call from a local who found the body of the adult sarus crane at Dhanauri on Wednesday evening. Forest rangers took the bird to the veterinary hospital in Dankaur, where it was declared dead on arrival. A post mortem of the bird is being conducted to find out the cause of death.” On December 25, a five-month-old sarus crane was found dead and another found unconscious at the Dhanauri wetlands. While the sarus crane which was alive was given due treatment, it died later in the hospital, taking the death toll to two.“Their post-mortem reports revealed Salmonella infection (bacterial infection) as the cause of death. The chicks found dead showed symptoms of puffed feathers, swollen eyelids and lethargy. The adult sarus found dead on Wednesday could be their parent. More details will be clear once all the post-mortem reports are available, after which the forest department will take necessary action,” said Srivastava.Anand Arya, a Noida-based birder who was among the first ones to have found the wetland in 2014 and initiated the legal battle for its recognition, said the wetland needs immediate conservation.“The death of the birds is very alarming and hints to food poisoning or pesticide poisoning. If the site had been recognised as a Ramsar site, the wetland would have been more protected and such incidents could have been avoided,” said Arya. Ramsar sites are the wetlands of international importance.He added, “The forest department is yet to submit an application proposing Dhanauri as a Ramsar site and it has been delayed by over seven years. So far, they did not even submit the detailed study to the Ramsar secretariat to make a case for it.” To this, Srivastava said, “Applying for Ramsar Site recognition is a lengthy process and requires a lot of paperwork as well as ground work. The forest department is working on the same and status of the proposal will be shared soon”.The official count of sarus crane at the 101-hectare Dhanauri wetland is 120. The sarus crane has also been recognised as the state bird of Uttar Pradesh.Other than Dhanauri, the sarus cranes are found in various small fields and marshes of the district , such as like Khodna Khurd, Ishapur, Dhanauri, Rawani Bujurg, Parsaul and Nagla Bhatona.
31-12-2021||Mumbai||13 months on, MVA govt. awaits Governor’s decision on appointment of 12 MLCs||MUMBAI: Twelve seats of the Maharashtra Legislative Council (MLC) have been lying vacant for the last 17 months. Despite over a year having passed since the Uddhav Thackeray-led Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government recommended 12 names to be appointed as MLCs on the vacant seats, governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari is yet to take a decision on these recommendations.It was on November 6, 2020 that the state government approved 12 names and sent it to the governor for appointment. The 12 names included: Vijay Karanjkar, Urmila Matondkar, Nitin Bangude-Patil and Chandrakant Raghuvanshi from the Shiv Sena; Eknath Khadse, Raju Shetti, Yashpal Bhinge and Anand Shinde from the Nationalist Congress Party (NCP); and Rajni Patil, Sachin Sawant, Anniruddha Vankar and Muzaffar Hussain from the Congress.Out of the 78 members of the state legislative council, 12 are nominated by the governor on the recommendation of the state government. These members are expected to be from different fields such as the arts, literature, sports, cooperation and social service.Koshyari’s indecision has led to major friction between Raj Bhavan and the tripartite MVA government with Koshyari and the MVA leaders engaged in a war of words on several occasions. The matter was followed up by the state government when three months ago on September 1, chief minister Uddhav Thackeray led a three-member delegation to meet Koshyari and formally request him to take a decision. Deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar who was part of the delegation along with state revenue minister Balasaheb Thorat told reporters outside Raj Bhavan after their meeting with Koshyari, “We requested the governor to see if the decision is taken early as it would be helpful for the government when it comes to the functioning of the state legislature. We said it was our request that he accept the recommendation even though it was his right to take a decision.”In July, the state government submitted an affidavit before the Bombay high court (HC) stating that the power of the governor to make these nominations does not fall in the category of discretionary powers conferred on the occupant of the top constitutional office. “It has been specifically submitted in the said communication (recommendation of 12 names as MLCs) that in the larger public interest and from the point of view of a healthy democracy as also the rich traditions that are meticulously observed in this regard, it is necessary to fill in these 12 vacant positions at the earliest,” the affidavit said. “The governor was requested to complete the process of nominating the 12 persons as MLCs at the earliest and at the most within 15 days,” the affidavit added. Significantly, the Bombay HC observed that the governor was constitutionally obligated to either accept or reject the proposal sent by the state government for appointing 12 legislators within a reasonable time.It’s been four months since the HC made this observation on August 13 while disposing of a public interest litigation (PIL) filed against the delay in making the appointments.Constitutional experts are of the opinion that the appointments should have been made soon after the recommendations were made as it is binding on the governor to accept the advice of the council of ministers according to the constitution. They are also of the view that the President can be approached for the governor’s removal over dereliction of constitutional duties.According to Ulhas Bapat, a constitutional expert, the position of the council of ministers and the governor is very clear in the constitution. Just like Article 74 of the constitution under which the advice of the Prime Minister is binding on the President, the advice of the chief minister is also binding on the governor under Article 163 of the constitution. The only difference in the case of the governor is of discretionary powers provided to the governor but they too are for implementing the constitutional duties and not for personal discretion.“For instance, the governor has been given special responsibilities by the constitution which are specified between articles 371 and 371H where the chief minister’s advice is not binding on him. Except these, in all the remaining matters, the chief minister’s advice is binding on the governor. Thus, the appointment is purely the right of the state government and should have been made with immediate effect,” Bapat told Hindustan Times.On his part, Sudhir Mungantiwar, former finance minister and senior BJP leader defended Koshyari’s stand saying that it is not binding on the governor to clear the appointments in the specific time period. Also, the Bombay high court did not direct Koshyari to take a decision in a specific time frame. “The high court did not prescribe any time frame as it is not in their jurisdiction to direct the governor to take the decision in a limited time. There are thousands of cases where the Bombay high court issues directives to the state government but they are not followed by the state government for years,” he commented.Meanwhile, a query sent to the governor’s secretary Santosh Kumar and public relations office (PRO) on November 30 is yet to receive any response. They were asked if the governor has raised any query, which is not addressed by the state government leading to the delay.
31-12-2021||Gurugram||Long queues continue outside Metro stations in Gurugram for second day in a row||Long queues were witnessed outside Metro stations in Gurugram on Thursday for the second consecutive day, as the Delhi Metro functioned “at less than 10% of its capacity”.A statement released by the Delhi Metro Rail Corporation (DMRC) on Thursday reads, “With the new Covid guidelines in place, the permitted capacity is down to 200 passengers for an eight-coach Metro train from 2,400 passengers in general. This comprises approximately 50 seating passengers and 250 standing passengers per coach. With the present restrictions of 50% seating and no standing, each Metro coach can now accommodate nearly 25 passengers. This is less than 10% of a Metro train’s normal carrying capacity.”According to figures, a Metro train has a carrying capacity of 8.33% now.The statement Anuj Dayal, executive director of corporate communications, DMRC, reads, “Therefore, people must travel only if absolutely essential. Also, keep extra time in your commute by the Metro as the entry point has to be regulated to ensure compliance with the guidelines, which is resulting in queues outside stations.” On Thursday, long queues were witnessed during office hours outside the Huda City Centre Metro station in the morning and in the evening. Other Metro stations like Iffco Chowk and Guru Dronacharya among others did not witness long queues, and the movement of commuters was normal even with 50% of the gates being functional. Seema, a commuter waiting at the Huda City Centre Metro station, said on Thursday evening, “With the new restrictions, the wait before travelling has increased by at least half an hour. If the restrictions are in place, the authorities must also ensure that people standing in queues maintain social distancing, but that is not happening. Norms are only being followed inside the trains.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/long-queues-continue-outside-metro-stations-in-gurugram-for-second-day-in-a-row-101640890782697.html
31-12-2021||Chandigarh||Haryana reports 23 more Omicron cases; tally mounts to 37||Haryana reported 23 more cases of the Omicron variant of coronavirus on Thursday, the highest daily spike so far, pushing the tally of such cases to 37 in state, according to a health department bulletin.Of these 37 cases, 12 are active while the rest have been discharged.In view of rise in Omicron cases, the Haryana government has imposed a night curfew and restriction on gatherings from Saturday.People eligible for vaccination but not fully vaccinated will be banned from shopping malls, cinema halls, restaurants and grain markets, among other crowded places from January 1.Meanwhile, the state continued to register a surge in Covid-19 cases, with 300 new infections being reported on Thursday, 180 of them from Gurugram alone. Faridabad and Panchkula reported 44 and 20 new infections, respectively.However, no fresh fatality due to the virus was reported in state. The total case count now stands at 7,73,361 while the death toll remained unchanged at 10,063.The number of active coronavirus cases in the state has almost doubled in three days, from 536 on Monday to 1,047 on Thursday, while 7,62,228 patients have recuperated, the bulletin said, adding that the recovery rate was recorded at 98.56%.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/haryana-reports-23-more-omicron-cases-tally-mounts-to-37-101640890780924.html
31-12-2021||Delhi||Medical student dies by suicide in Delhi, no foul play: Police||A 19-year-old medical student at Maulana Azad Medical College (MAMC) died by suicide on Thursday morning, police said. Police said the young woman hanged herself inside her room in the woman’s hostel of the medical college in Central Delhi’s ITO.Police said they do not suspect any foul play because the room where she was found dead was bolted from inside. Police said they were informed by the hostel staff and other medical students, who had forced open the door when there was no response from inside, and found the woman hanging.Deputy commissioner of police(Central) Shweta Chauhan, said, “The room was bolted from inside and was forced open by staff of hostel. We also found a note in a register that she had left for her family. During our investigation, her room partners said that the 19-year-old was depressed after learning on Wednesday that she failed in two papers. The tests were held recently.”Police said they have seized her cell phone and sent it for forensic examination. While police have, prima facie, ruled out foul play, they are awaiting the post mortem report to confirm the cause of death. “The body was handed to her family member after post-mortem examination, “DCP Chauhan said.If you require help or know someone who does, help is just a call awaySnehi: 011-65978181Sumaitri: 011-23389090||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/medical-student-dies-by-suicide-in-delhi-no-foul-play-police-101640890722447.html
31-12-2021||Noida||38 fresh Covid cases emerge in Noida, 80% more cases than a day before||Noida reported 38 new Covid-19 cases on Thursday, an 80% jump from the 21 cases reported a day ago on Wednesday. This is also the highest daily count of cases in the past seven months. The last time the daily caseload crossed 30 in Gautam Budh Nagar district was June 7 when 34 cases were recorded on a single day. While the absolute number of total cases is not high compared to the total population, the number of cases increased from single digits to over 30 every day in less than a month. According to the health department, the maximum number of cases was reported from the urban areas of Bisrakh, followed by Dankaur. Dadri and Jewar areas reported very few cases. With around 3,500 tests being conducted in the district, the daily positivity rate in the district crossed 1%.Around 61,000 tests have been conducted in Noida so far this month. The number of active cases in the district is now 135--the highest in Uttar Pradesh. While 134 patients are in home isolation, one patient is admitted at the Noida Covid Hospital. So far, 200 cases have been added to the tally in December. This is already three times the number of cases reported last month--61-- and the highest monthly count in the last six months.There were around 640 cases reported in the district in June, the number reduced to around 165 in July. The number of cases reduced steadily until November, when they started picking up again.The 38 cases added on Thursday included one woman who travelled from the United Kingdom. Her samples were collected on December 27, eight days after her travel,and they tested positive. However, she was tested again on Thursday, and had recovered by then. Health officials have asked her to stay in home isolation for the next seven days, after which she will be tested again. Health officials said that all arrangements to tackle the rise in cases are in place. “The number of cases is going to increase further as data across the state shows. The third wave of the pandemic is here. However, we are not worried as all our arrangements are already in place and need to be reactivated as the demand for health infrastructure increases. We upgraded all our smaller centres as well with medical kits and increased testing. Since most of our population is fully vaccinated, the infections are also mild and very few need hospitalisation,” said Dr Sunil Sharma, chief medical officer. The state reviewed the Covid-19 preparations of all districts through a video conference on Thursday and asked them to prepare a list of all available hospitals with oxygen beds. The districts have to fill a Google sheet with details of all hospitals as well as sample collection centres and their operation timings. The data is also supposed to be uploaded on the ‘Mera Covid Kendra’ app. The state has also asked districts to ensure that all oxygen plants are functional and can run for at least 4-6 hours at a time. Districts have to also distribute about 50 medical kits to all nigrani samitis and smaller healthcare centres as per demand.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/38-fresh-covid-cases-emerge-in-noida-80-more-cases-than-a-day-before-101640890720910.html
31-12-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab polls: AAP names eight more candidates||Chandigarh The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) on Thursday announced eight more candidates for the upcoming assembly elections in Punjab, taking the total number of nominees named so far to 96. Amritsar district (urban) president Jeevanjot Kaur, a local social activist, has been fielded from the Amritsar East seat, which is currently represented by Punjab Congress president Navjot Singh Sidhu in the state assembly. Gurinder Singh “Garry” Birring, who was in-charge of organisational building in the state unit, will fight from Amloh, according to the sixth list of candidates issued by state unit chief Bhagwant Mann and Punjab convener Jarnail Singh. Advocate Amarpal Singh, who was third with 20% vote share in 2017, has been again fielded from Sri Hargobindpur, whereas Dr Jasbir Singh is the party candidate from Amritsar West. The other candidates are Sukhvir Maiser Khana from Maur, Narinder Pal Singh Sawna from Fazilka, Preetpal Sharma from Gidderbaha and Dr Mohd Zamil-Ur-Rehman from Malerkotla.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-polls-aap-names-eight-more-candidates-101640890662491.html
31-12-2021||Mumbai||BMC completes 2km of tunnel boring for coastal road project||MUMBAI The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) on Thursday said that it has completed 2km of tunnel boring for its ambitious Mumbai Coastal Road Project (MCRP) on December 29. The 10.58 km long coastal road originates near the Princess Street flyover at Marine Drive and will connect to the Bandra-Worli Sea Link (BWSL) at Worli. As part of this project, the BMC is constructing two 2.7 km long underground tunnels that will run parallely between Priyadarshini Park (PDP) and Girgaon Chowpatty. The tunnels will run 75 metre below the surface at Malabar Hill and 25 metre below the surface at Girgaon.For carrying out the boring of these tunnels, the BMC has procured the largest tunnel boring machine (TBM) of the country which has a diameter of 12.2 metre and named it Mavala. The boring for the first tunnel began on January 11 this year and on December 29 the BMC completed boring of 2km of the first tunnel. Speaking to Hindustan Times, Vijay Nighot, chief engineer of the project, said that boring of the remaining 70 metre will be finished within the first week of January.Earlier on September 4, 2021, the BMC finished boring the first 1km of this tunnel. “It took us nearly eight months to bore the first 1km while the remaining 1km was completed within just four months. The second phase of work started after monsoon and the second wave had also receded by that time due to which the pace of the project picked up,” said Nighot.After boring of the first tunnel gets completed, the tunnel will be taken out at the Girgaon end. Thereafter, digging of the second tunnel will start parallel from there which will be taken out at PDP. Nighot added that boring for the second tunnel will start in March 2022 and end by December 2022.“The second tunnel will be dug in the same manner as the first one. It usually takes eight to nine months to finish the entire digging. Due to the restrictions imposed following the second wave in early 2021, the deadline got delayed by a few months,” Nighot said.The entire MCRP is divided into four packages and the tunneling works fall under the fourth package. Each of the tunnels will have four lane roads that will enable traffic movement from both ways. Nighot said that preparations for construction of roads inside the tunnels have already been done simultaneously with the boring process.The BMC in a statement released on Thursday also said that 50% of the entire MCRP project has been completed, including the reclamation works. The construction works for this project started in 2018 and a 48-month deadline was set up back then. But owing to the pandemic and various other legal issues, the project got delayed and the current deadline of the project is December 2023. The budget for this project including the construction works has been pegged at ₹12,950 crore.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/bmc-completes-2km-of-tunnel-boring-for-coastal-road-project-101640890660898.html
31-12-2021||Kolkata||Bengal may register up to 35,000 Covid-19 cases daily: Experts||KOLKATA: West Bengal may face community transmission of the highly transmissible Omicron variant of the Covid-19 in coming weeks and the daily count of cases may hit 30,000-35,000 during the peak of a possible third wave, doctors of the state health department warned after a meeting on Wednesday. “Omicron cases are not fatal but are spreading fast and Covid-19 cases have shot up, particularly in and around Kolkata. There is no need to panic. We are reviewing the situation. I would request every citizen to wear a mask, sanitise and maintain social distance,” said Mamata Banerjee, chief minister of West Bengal. At Wednesday’s meeting, attended by bureaucrats and senior doctors of the state health department, evidence of “local transmission” of Omicron in the state was cited. Five more Omicron cases were reported on Thursday, raisiing the total Omicron cases in West Bengal to 16.“A few persons were found positive for Omicron without any travel or contact history, suggesting community transmission,” said a doctor who attended the meeting. The daily count of cases shot up to 4,157 when the peak of the first wave hit the state in late October 2020. The second wave was worse, as the daily count touched 20,846 in mid-May. “As the Omicron variant spreads 3-5 times faster, cases may increase manifold in the next one week. This time, we may expect 30,000-35,000 cases every day in the coming weeks. Hopefully the surge would not persist beyond April 22,” a doctor was quoted as saying at the meeting. Also Read | Mamata mulls shutting schools, colleges as Covid-19 cases rise in BengalBanerjee on Wednesday hinted the government may reintroduce containment zones in Kolkata, reduce the number of local trains, restart work from home and close down schools and colleges to check the spread. “The maximum number of Covid-19 cases is being detected among passengers coming from the UK. If there is one Omciron case in the flight, there are chances of spread to other passengers. We are reviewing the situation. We have to check what the civil aviation ministry is doing. The Centre should take a decision,” she said. She added the running of local trains was also being reviewed. The government has tightened surveillance of international fliers landing in Kolkata. Fresh guidelines have been issued on contact tracing and re-testing of international travellers coming to Kolkata. “While passengers need to undergo RT-PCR tests after landing at the Kolkata airport, the contact tracing cell of each district and the civic body in Kolkata will contact and remind each passenger for re-test on the 8th day. There would be follow-ups. If the passenger is found to be positive, the samples would be sent for genome sequencing. Home isolation of 14 days would be advised if found to be negative,” said an official.As many as 752 cases of Covid-19 were reported on Tuesday. The daily count crossed the 1000-mark a day later. The daily count has doubled over the last two weeks. The maximum number of cases, around 380, was reported from Kolkata on Tuesday.The government relaxed the night curfew from December 24 to January 1 in view of the Christmas and New Year celebrations. It is also gearing up for the Ganga Sagar Mela, which is scheduled to begin on January 14. Millions of pilgrims from across India would take the holy dip at the confluence of the River Ganges and Bay of Bengal on the occasion of Makar Sankranti on January 15. “We cannot stop any pilgrim from coming to the Mela,” said Banerjee. In view of rising concerns over the Omicron variant, the Centre has sent special multi-disciplinary teams to 10 states and Union territories, including West Bengal, which are either reporting a higher number of infections or have a low pace of vaccination.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/bengal-may-register-up-to-35-000-covid-19-cases-daily-experts-101640890480969.html
31-12-2021||Noida||Ghaziabad breathed better air than last two years, shows govt data||Ghaziabad experienced better air this year, when the Graded Response Action Plan (Grap) came into effect, compared to the last two years as data from the Uttar Pradesh Pollution Control Board (UPPCB) shows that the city fared better in several parameters which measure the amount of pollutants in the air. The Grap is generally put into effect from October 15 every year to tackle the rise in air pollution levels with the help of pollution abatement measures. It is generally in place till the February of next year. According to official records of the UPPCB, which has measured the data for the first 75 days of the Grap from October 15 to December 28, the average air quality index (AQI) in the city stood at 346 in 2019, 351 in 2020 and 323 this year. The average PM2.5 levels in the city for the corresponding period was 233 in 2019, 234 in 2020 and 202 micrograms per cubic metre (mpcm) this year. Though the PM2.5 levels were lower this year, it was still thrice the standard limit of 60mpcm. Official data showed that the average PM10 levels stood at 344 mpcm till December 28 this year compared to 384 mpcm last year and 346 mpcm in 2019. The standard limit for PM10 is 100mpcm. “The city has fared better in several air quality parameters this year though the AQI remained in the ‘severe’ category for 10 days during the post-Diwali period. The better performance of the city in the air quality parameters is the result of meteorological conditions as well as local enforcement. We have been able to reduce instances of garbage burning and stubble burning this year while projects, such as the Delhi Meerut Expressway, which increased pollution levels, has also got completed,” said Utsav Sharma, regional officer of UPPCB, Ghaziabad. “Water sprinkling and mechanised road sweeping was also doubled post Diwali and repair of broken and dusty roads were also expedited,” he added. Despite the better air quality records, the AQI of Ghaziabad has been oscillating from ‘severe’ to ‘poor’ category since October 26, when the city witnessed its last ‘moderate’ air. On Thursday too, the city experienced ‘poor’ air with an AQI reading of 268 according to the AQI index released by the Central Pollution Control Board. The AQI for Greater Noida was 166 in the ‘moderate’ category while Noida too was in the ‘poor’ zone with an AQI of 222. An AQI between zero and 50 is considered ‘good’, 51 and 100 ‘satisfactory’, 101 and 200 ‘moderate’, 201 and 300 ‘poor’, 301 and 400 ‘very poor’, and 401 and 500 ‘severe.’ However, environmentalists said the data was not indicative of the action being taken at the ground level to curb pollution in Ghaziabad. “The sting in enforcement is lacking while the figures itself indicate that average PM10 and PM2.5 levels are already three times higher than the standard limits. A slight dip in levels does not indicate that city has become pollution-free. Further, during a major part of the Grap period, residents had to breathe ‘severe’ to ‘poor’ air, thus impacting their health. So, there is hardly any improvement even if there is a marginal decline in air quality parameters,” said Akash Vashishtha, a city-based environmentalist. According to officials, Ghaziabad is listed among the 16 ‘non-attainment cities’ in Uttar Pradesh, with high levels of air pollution. Cities are declared ‘non-attainment’ if they do not meet the National Ambient Air Quality Standards for particulate matter (PM10) or nitrogen dioxide (NO2) over a period of five years.
31-12-2021||Delhi||North Delhi’s TB hospital building in dangerous state: Atishi||After conducting a surprise inspection at Rajan Babu Institute of Pulmonary Medicine and Tuberculosis Hospital on Thursday, Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) MLA Atishi accused the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)-ruled North Delhi Municipal Corporation (North MCD) of “playing with the lives of Delhiites” and “providing treatment to patients in the dangerous building of the hospital”.Refuting the allegations, the North MCD and the BJP said that only the building’s front portion has recently been declared dangerous, while three-fourths of the building that houses the hospital’s wards are safe and habitable.After the inspection, the AAP legislator said that the hospital’s building can collapse at any time and take numerous lives. “The BJP leaders have such a lust for money that they have left patients to die while being fully aware of the North MCD hospital’s fatal conditions. Everyone can see that the North MCD has itself written in front of the building ‘This building is hazardous, do not proceed ahead’. The structure is in a dangerous condition and has been designated as such. Though the building is on the verge of collapse, patients are being kept in this very building. Even the wards of the hospital are in a horrible state. If it is any indication, the BJP leaders are not only corrupt, but they also do not regret abandoning the people of Delhi,” she said.Atishi also said that only patients in a poor economic situation prefer to go to this hospital. “What if this building comes crashing down? And, we don’t forget that only poor people, the ones who cannot afford to go to private hospitals, visit the state-run hospitals nowadays. I’d like to ask BJP leaders why they despise the people of Delhi so much,” she said.Refuting the allegations, Delhi BJP spokesperson Praveen Shankar Kapoor, said that this was nothing more than AAP’s petty politics to malign the image of Rajan Babu TB Hospital that has won accolades for serving TB patients not only of Delhi but across North India.“In her video statement, the AAP MLA tried to portray that wards of North MCD’s Rajan Babu TB Hospital are being run from a dangerous building. Contrary to that, only the front portion of a building, which is actually a covered verandah, has recently been declared dangerous. The remaining three-fourths of the building that houses wards are safe and habitable,” he said.Echoing Kapoor’s views, Jogi Ram Jain, the chairman of the standing committee of North MCD, said that the areas shown in the video issued by Atishi, also show that the wards have a well-maintained structure. “It is a mere political stunt to hog headlines as the patients’ attendants interviewed by her in the video also expressed satisfaction over the treatment being provided at the hospital,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/north-delhi-s-tb-hospital-building-in-dangerous-state-atishi-101640890422086.html
31-12-2021||Lucknow||Covid vaccination in Lucknow: 15 to18-yr-olds to get jabs from January 3||About 3.2 lakh children between the age of 15 and 18 years would be eligible for Covaxin jabs in the state capital from January 3.“The registration for vaccination of 3, 21, 392 children in Lucknow between 15 and 18 years will open from January 1 on the CoWin portal. This age group would receive jabs at any of our vaccination centres after registration and booking,” said Dr MK Singh, in charge of vaccination in Lucknow.Apart from children, about 77000 health care workers and 68000 frontline workers will also take their third dose from January 10.“Third dose for health care workers and frontline workers will be available from January 10. Those 60-plus having any co morbidity can also get their precautionary dose on doctor’s advice,” said Dr Singh.Dr Singh said a gap of nine months ago or 39 weeks after the second dose is must for receiving the booster or third dose. “Till now over 7-lakh doses of Covid vaccine have been administered to people above 60-years of age,” said Dr Abhishek Shukla, secretary general association of international doctors. He said that at least one lakh elders in state capital would be suffering from some co morbidities.So far 59,84,611 doses of Covid vaccine have been administered to people in Lucknow including 35.82 lakh of those with first dose and over 24-lakh people having received second dose.37.40 lakh people are eligible for vaccination in Lucknow for vaccination.In Lucknow, Covid vaccination facility is available at 12-district level government hospitals, medical institutes such as KGMU, Lohia and PGI, 11 government run community health centres and all primary health centres in urban and rural areas free of cost.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/covid-vaccination-in-lucknow-15-to18-yr-olds-to-get-jabs-from-january-3-101640890420756.html
31-12-2021||Chandigarh||Another jolt for Punjab Cong, Lalli Majithia quits as Pungrain chief||Amritsar: In another jolt to the Congress in the Majha belt of Punjab, senior party leader Sukhjinder Raj Singh, alias Lalli Majithia, who fought three assembly elections against Shiromani Akali Dal’s Bikram Singh Majithia, on Thursday resigned from the post of the chairman-cum-director, Punjab State Grains Procurement Corporation Limited (Pungrain). He sent his resignation letter to chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi and later said that he has been upset over the Punjab government’s working on two major issues — sacrilege and drugs. He said the registration of a first information report (FIR) against Bikram Singh Majithia was merely an eyewash. “Has he gone underground? The government is deliberately not arresting him,” Lalli Majithia alleged. In the run-up to the Punjab assembly elections, he said he would consider resigning from the Congress at an “appropriate time” and joining another party in the coming days. It is learnt that he is likely to join the BJP. Political analysts observe that the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) might also try to bring Lalli into its fold.Lali had given tough fight to Bikram Majithia during the last 2017 elections. A veteran Congress leader, Lalli, has been vocal against Bikram Majithia for his alleged involvement in drug smuggling.In June, former chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh, in a move to counter the Majha brigade, appointed Lalli as the chairman of Pungrain. The post had fallen vacant after the death of former chief secretary YS Ratra in April. The Majha brigade, comprising cabinet ministers Tript Rajinder Bajwa, Sukhbinder Singh Sarkaria and Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa along with some MLAs, had joined hands with the dissidents against Captain.Lalli resignation comes just two days after Congress sitting MLAs Fateh Jung Bajwa from Qadian and Balwinder Singh Laddi from Shri Hargobindpur (reserved) joined the BJP in Delhi. Fateh Jung is the younger brother of former Punjab Congress chief and Rajya Sabha MP Partap Singh Bajwa. Laddi also belongs to the Bajwa camp. Last week, former minister and four-time Guru Har Sahai MLA Rana Gurmeet Sodhi joined the BJP.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/another-jolt-for-punjab-cong-lalli-majithia-quits-as-pungrain-chief-101640890362125.html
31-12-2021||Gurugram||No celebrations allowed after 11pm on December 31 amid rise in coronavirus cases||Gurugram, which was scheduled to host a large number of parties, will ring in the New Year in a toned down manner due to the surge in Covid-19 cases and the increasing spread of the new Omicron variant. Most pubs, bars, clubs and restaurants cancelled their events and refunded their table booking after a guideline implementing a curfew from 11pm to 5am was issued by the state on December 24.Gurugram reported 180 new Covid-19 cases on Thursday, said health officials, taking the tally to 660 active cases.The police department said that around 4,000 policemen will be deployed across Gurugram on Friday night to maintain law and order.KK Rao, commissioner of police, said police will strictly implement curfew between 11pm and 5am due to the rise in Covid-19 cases and that all establishments organising parties on New Year’s Eve have been instructed to comply. “We have informed all establishments to cancel their programmes and ensure they follow all Covid-19 protocols. People can celebrate at home with precautions. Residents can party outdoors with a limited number of people, but have to wind up before 11pm. Strict action will be taken against anyone caught outside after 11pm,” he said.Rao said they have urged the public to remain at home and to not violate the orders issued by the state. With the current situation the cases might go up and there could be a possibility of a complete lockdown, he said.More than 60 barricades have been set up across the city and teams have been formed to keep a check on the vehicular movements. There will be maximum deployment of police at Sirhaul border as that is the most common route between Delhi and Gurugram. Police said Delhi residents would be travelling to Gurugram to attend parties, and with the curfew measures in place, they could try to reach in the early evening, which could result in traffic congestion.Aman Yadav, assistant commissioner of police, said that their focus is to keep people safe and to ensure they are not gathering in large numbers. “Our teams are deployed near all establishments where the footfall is high during celebration times. There is a cap on gatherings and all outlets have to ensure social distancing and not to allow anyone who is not fully vaccinated,” he said.Yadav said teams are deployed at popular hotspots on Golf Course Road, Sohna Road, Golf Course Extension Road, MG Road, Sector 29 and at all borders connecting to Delhi.The owners of these establishments said that they support the initiative of the government and will follow all the directions.Varun Duggal, head of Alliances at Massive Restaurants Pvt. Ltd, said that the safety of their customers is more important than business. “We are happy to close on time and reserve limited seats for our customers. All our staff have been vaccinated and we are following all directions issued by the health department,” he said.Ashish Dev Kapoor, founder, Whisky Samba, said it is a good decision for all and they are happy to follow all guidelines that have been issued by the government. “We are taking care of all precautionary measures at all our outlets to ensure people are safe and enjoy, while maintaining social distance,” he said.Chirag Gehlot, one of the members of Central Park Resort, said that they have cancelled the New Year’s Eve event. “We will be hosting residents at the club and will take the last order at 10pm so that the staff can also reach home before 11pm,” he said.
31-12-2021||Chandigarh||Modi to lay stone of Kapurthala, Hoshiarpur medical colleges||JALANDHAR: Prime Minister Narendra Modi will lay the foundation stone of Kapurthala and Hoshiarpur medical colleges virtually during his visit to Ferozepur on January 5, said Union minister Som Parkash on Thursday. The two medical colleges will be constructed at a cost of around ₹325 crore each, or which the central government has released the first instalment of ₹100 crore to the Punjab government. Som Prakash, who is MP from Hoshiarpur, said people in Punjab have been facing a lot of problems due to lack of medical facilities during the pandemic. The BJP is committed to providing quality medical services to every resident of Punjab, he added. “With the completion of these two medical colleges, people of Punjab would not have to go to Delhi or Chandigarh for medical facilities,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/modi-to-lay-stone-of-kapurthala-hoshiarpur-medical-colleges-101640890240826.html
31-12-2021||Noida||Noida: 18, including five women, arrested for CTET exam fraud||The Gautam Budh Nagar police on Thursday arrested 18 people, including five women, from a hotel in Noida’s Sector 71 for their alleged involvement in leaking solved question papers of the Central Board of Secondary Education’s (CBSE) Central Teacher Eligibility Test (CTET). Rajesh S, deputy commissioner of police (DCP) Noida, said a police team was patrolling Sector 58 early Thursday morning when they spotted a Maruti Suzuki Eeco in Noida’s Sector 60. “The police team checked the vehicle and found five men in the car. The police also found some women’s purses in the vehicle. The car occupants said the purses belonged to some women, who were putting up at a guest house in Noida’s Sector 71,” he said. Kumar Ranvijay Singh, additional deputy commissioner of police (ADCP) of Noida, said the police team suspected foul play and conducted a search at the guest house. “The police found 19 people, including five women there. We recovered three laptops, one keyboard, one printer, 20 mobile phones, 50 admit cards of CBSE’s CTET exams--which were scheduled on December 30, ₹36,000 in cash, five cars-- a Mahindra Fortuner, Maruti Swift Dzire, Mahindra XUV 500, Maruti Suzuki Baleno and a Maruti Suzuki Eeco,” said Singh.The suspects were identified as Rajesh Kumar (35) from Jagatpuri in New Delhi; Bhavani Sharma (45), (retired constable from CRPF) from Rajasthan; Shiv Ram Singh (32), (serving head constable in CRPF); Vikas (30), (assistant sub-inspector in Delhi police), from Haryana, Sunil Kumar (30), from Palwal in Haryana and others. A suspect, identified as Ravi, managed to escape from the spot. “Ravi fled with a pen drive which had the question paper. We have launched a search to arrest him,” said Singh. Police said on Thursday, the CBSE had organised CTET examinations at Mathura, Moradabad, Gurugram and other cities. “There was no exam centre in Noida. However, these suspects had gathered in Noida to exchange the solved paper and then appear in the exam,” said Singh. Police said during interrogation, the suspects revealed they were involved in such activities for the last five years. “They used to charge ₹2.5-3 lakh per candidate to share the solved papers. We will write to the CBSE to probe the matter,” said Singh. Police said two other suspects--Vinay Dhaiya and Ankit Kumar of Sonipat, who are the masterminds of the racket--are on the run. Rama Sharma, a spokesperson of CBSE, did not respond to calls and messages for a comment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/noida-18-including-five-women-arrested-for-ctet-exam-fraud-101640890123012.html
31-12-2021||Chandigarh||Sahitya Akademi Award to Khalid Hussain brings cheer in Punjabi circles||CHANDIGARH: “I have been writing for the past 50 years and my stories have been widely read and translated but this recognition, even if it took a long time to come, has brought me happiness,” Khalid Hussain, 77, told HT on the phone from Jammu. As the news of the award spread on Thursday, the Punjabi literati warmed up sharing joy over this well-deserved award that took away the December chill. He has been given the award for his collection of stories: “Sullan da Saalan”, which takes its title from a “kafi” by the Sufi poet Shah Husain.Hailing the genre of Hussain, poet and prose writer Manmohan, who wrote the introduction to the award-winning book, says: “He is a rare writer who can travel with ease from the realistic to the surrealistic. His understanding of the undivided Punjab before Partition is unparalleled. Each story in this book is a work of art.” Leading Punjabi short fiction writer Gurmeet Karyalvi says: “It is heart-warming that the Punjabi writing from Jammu and Kashmir has been given recognition by the Sahitya Akademi. Hussain has been translating the travails of the people of Jammu and Kashmir into Punjabi language with great finesse.” Hussain has borne the trial of communal politics on his body and soul. Born in 1944 in Ramnagar, a Dogri speaking area of Udhampur, he fled with his mother and father’s sister in the communal carnage in which seven male members of the family, including his grandfather, father, uncles two older brothers, were killed. The next seven years were spent in refugee camps in Jammu and Srinagar where his mother made meagre earning tailoring clothes like so many other widows of Partition.When asked why he chose to write in Punjabi and not Dogri, Hussain says: “We settled in the Ustad Mohalla in old Jammu city living among petty artisans who were all Punjabi speaking. I took my characters and the language from my surroundings although later I also wrote in Urdu.” An author of six collections of short stories, besides an autobiography, a satisfying moment came for him when celebrated poet late Ali Sardar Jafri translated his story “Baide di Lanka”, on the theme of the great divide, into Urdu and published it in the magazine “Guftagu”. Famous author Khushwant Singh read it and translated it into English and it was published in the prestigious magazine, The Illustrated Weekly of India.Starting as a mason and then promoted as a clerk, Hussain studied constantly to upgrade his skills and support his family, retiring as an officer in secretary rank, besides wielding his pen constantly. He has also penned his autograph and writes in Urdu as well. He is equally popular in India and Pakistan.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/sahitya-akademi-award-to-khalid-hussain-brings-cheer-in-punjabi-circles-101640890001199.html
31-12-2021||Noida||UP govt rolls out guidelines for vaccinating children aged 15-18 from January 3||The Uttar Pradesh government has issued guidelines for vaccination of children aged 15-18 years from January 3 and also for senior citizens, healthcare workers and frontline workers, who will be administered the third dose of the Covid-19 vaccine from January 10 onwards. The government has also set targets for vaccinating beneficiaries in different groups. While Gautam Budh Nagar has a target of vaccinating 115,592 children, Ghaziabad would be vaccinating 234,488 beneficiaries in the 15-18 years cohort. According to the state guidelines, children will be administered only Bharat Biotech’s Covaxin as it is the only vaccine with Emergency Use Listing (EUL) for the 15-18 years age-group and recommended by ‘Covid -19 Working Group’ of the National Technical Advisory Group on immunization. According to a report from the Union health ministry, states have been advised to form two separate vaccination teams at every vaccination centre to avoid confusion in administration of the right vaccine and ensure orientation of vaccinators on jabbing the eligible children. “To avoid the mixing up of vaccines during administration, separate CVCs (covid vaccination centres), separate session sites, separate queue (if at same session where adult vaccination is ongoing) and separate vaccination team (if at same session site) are to be strived for,” said the health ministry. Children taking the shot will have to remain under observation for half an hour to monitor adverse effects, the same as all eligible people. They will be given the second dose after 28 days.“Beneficiaries falling under the 15-18 years age group can register online through an existing account on the CoWlN portal or can register by creating a new account by using a unique mobile number. The facility for online registration will be made available from January 1. The walk-in facility and the on the spot registration at the vaccination centres will also be facilitated for such beneficiaries,” said Dr Sunil Tyagi, additional chief medical officer of Ghaziabad. “We have about 250 teams involved in the vaccination process and 50-75 teams will be there exclusively for vaccinating children in schools,” said Tyagi. In Uttar Pradesh, 1,4014,000 children in the 15-18 years category have been identified, who are eligible to take the vaccine. In fact, Uttar Pradesh has the maximum share of such beneficiaries of the total 74,057,000 children identified across the country.  “We have planned to open vaccination camps in schools for children as it will be easily accessible to them. Once majority of the children get the vaccine doses in schools, those who have been left out of the vaccination programme can visit the dedicated inoculation centres to take the jab. We are hoping our teams will be able to vaccinate maximum beneficiaries in the 15-18 years age group in two weeks,” said Dr Bhavtosh Shankhdhar, chief medical officer of Ghaziabad. “We are chalking out a strategy to enhance the vaccination programme that will be undertaken from January onwards. We will dedicate counters at our vaccination centres, which will be exclusively for children. We are also trying to identify areas, where a large number of beneficiaries reside. We may come up with additional vaccination centres in such areas,” said Suhas LY, district magistrate of Gautam Budh Nagar. For those who are aged over 60+ and have comorbidities, the government has set a target of vaccinating 39,660 people in Gautam Budh Nagar and 68,815 in Ghaziabad. Around 3,754,400 such beneficiaries have been identified in UP, the state with the maximum share of people aged over 60+ and having comorbidities of the total 27,514,000 such beneficiaries identified across the country.According to the state guidelines, all persons aged 60 years and above with co-morbidities and who have completed two doses of Covid vaccine should take the doctor’s advice before taking the third precaution dose. It also said that prioritisation and sequencing of this precaution dose would be based on completion of nine months (39 weeks) from the date of administration of second dose. The ministry in this regard has already said all those who are 60 years and above will not be required to produce/submit any certificate from the doctor at the time of administration of the precautionary dose but are expected to take the doctor’s advice before deciding to avail the third dose.The ministry of health and family welfare has already asked the poll-bound states to maximise vaccination in a week or fortnight and also mentioned that personnel to be deployed on election duty will be treated as front line workers as they are at a higher risk of contracting the infection. Uttar Pradesh is set to go for the assembly elections in a couple of months. 
31-12-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab-origin realtor, 134 others get Canada’s highest civilian award||Toronto: Three Indian-origin Canadians have been bestowed with the Order of Canada -- one of the country’s highest civilian honours -- for their outstanding achievement, dedication to the community, helping in building a better nation and promoting bilateral ties between Canada and India.Internationally renowned scientist and innovator Dr Vaikuntam Iyer Lakshmanan; real estate mogul Bob Singh Dhillon, also known as Navjeet Singh Dhillon; and renowned paediatrician Dr Pradeep Merchant were among the 135 individuals honoured with the prestigious award, according to a press note uploaded on the website of the Governor General of Canada on Wednesday.“Today, Her Excellency the Right Honourable Mary Simon, Governor General of Canada, announced 135 appointments to the Order of Canada,” it said, sharing the list of the recipients.“Delighted to see the contributions of the dynamic Indian heritage community in Canada being recognized with Order of Canada. Congratulations to Dr Vaikuntam Iyer Lakshmanan, @BobDhillon_MEQ and @PradeepMerchant,” the High Commission of India in Ottawa tweeted on Thursday.According to the citation, Lakshmanan from Mississauga, Ontario was honoured “for his philanthropy and for his expertise in hydrometallurgy and business, which have greatly benefited his profession, community and Canada-India relations”.Founded in 1997, Bob Dhillon’s Mainstreet Equity Corp is the first Sikh-owned company listed on the Toronto Stock Exchange, the Calgary Herald newspaper reported. The 56-year-old businessman from Calgary, Alberta was recognised “for his achievements in business, and for his unwavering commitment to philanthropy and higher education,” the citation read.Merchant has played an active role in building a strong professional and business organisation in Ottawa. He was instrumental in establishing and is currently the Chair of the Governing Council of Canada-India Centre for Excellence at Carleton University, according to the Indo Canadian Business Chamber.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjaborigin-realtor-134-others-get-canada-s-highest-civilian-award-101640889820685.html
31-12-2021||Gurugram||180 fresh coronavirus infections in Gurugram, 13 of Omicron variant: Health dept||The district on Thursday reported 13 cases of the Omicron variant of Covid-19, all of whom were fully vaccinated, said officials from the district health department. Of the 13, 12 patients have already recovered but their reports were delayed. Gurugram currently has one active case of Omicron variant, said officials.On Thursday, Gurugram reported 180 fresh cases of Covid-19 and 22 recoveries. With this, the tally of active cases in the district stands at 660.Officials said that of the 13 new Omicron cases, four patients returned from the United States of America, three from the United Kingdom, and the rest from Nigeria, Dubai, and the UAE.Dr Jai Prakash, the district surveillance officer for Gurugram, said, “On Thursday, Gurugram reported 13 cases of the Omicron variant, of whom 12 have already recovered. We sent samples as part of regular surveillance and the reports came back late. Of these cases, two are from a cluster for which we had sent samples as part of monitoring. At present, Gurugram has one active case of Omicron variant, and, so far, 16 cases of the new variant have been reported.”On Thursday, the health department collected 5,777 samples for testing, which takes the total testing number to 2,292,305.According to the health department, 19,171 people received Covid-19 jabs on Thursday, of which 5,846 took their first dose and 13,325 received the second dose. With this, over 4.25 million have been vaccinated in the district.Jab centres to be set up in schoolsMeanwhile, the district health department on Wednesday conducted a meeting with the Private Schools Association to discuss the vaccination of students between 15 and 18 years of age. The health department has asked schools to submit the list of eligible students by Friday. The department is also trying to find out where vaccination centres can be set up in different schools. Till now, the health department has identified around 175,000 students eligible for vaccination in the district.Col Pratap Singh, district president of Haryana Progressive Schools’ Conference, said, “As winter break has started in most schools, many students might be out of town. During the meeting, it was discussed that first, messages will be sent to all parents with details of when the vaccination is starting and how to register; so that students can return and sessions at schools can be planned accordingly. The schools will coordinate with the health department so that vaccination camps can be set up at the schools and 100-150 students can be vaccinated a day to start with.”Singh said that around 80 private schools in the district are associated with the body and every school has around 500 students in the 15-18 year age group.Gurugram DC inspects hospitalsAmid rising cases of Covid-19 being reported from the district and the National Capital Region (NCR), the Gurugram deputy commissioner visited government and private hospitals on Thursday to take stock of the preparations made by hospitals in view of the new Covid-19 variant Omicron.Yash Garg, deputy commissioner visited Civil Hospital in Sector 10, ESIC Hospital in Sector 9 and Polyclinic in Sector 31. Chief medical officer (CMO) Dr Virender Yadav briefed him regarding the availability of beds and oxygen supply from the three oxygen plants set up at these hospitals.As of now, the district has a total of 5,532 beds, including oxygen beds, Intensive Care Unit beds and ventilator beds. According to data shared by the health department, of the 5,532 beds, 3,427 beds in private hospitals have oxygen support, 434 are ventilator beds, 952 are ICU beds.A total of 367 beds are available in government hospitals, all of which are oxygen-supported beds. Of the 367, six are ventilator beds and 19 are ICU beds.The CMO informed the deputy commissioner that around 350 cylinders of oxygen can be supplied daily from the three oxygen plants.Garg also inquired about health services available at the temporary hospitals built in collaboration with Hero Motors in Women’s College, Sector 14. The CMO said that there are 175 beds available in Civil Hospital and the Polyclinic, including the temporary hospital set up in Women’s College. The deputy commissioner has also directed the CMO to set up 72 additional beds at ESIC Hospital.Garg also inspected health services at the temporary hospital built at Tau Devilal Stadium and instructed officials to make it operational by January 5.Garg also inspected a few private hospitals in the city.“The number of positive cases is increasing every day in the district, so all preparations should be completed in Gurugram in advance so that in case of emergency, health services continue to run smoothly. I appeal to all residents to celebrate the New Year with their families at home. Even though Covid-19 is under control in Gurugram, cases of the Omicron variant are being reported in bigger cities, so we need to be careful and follow Covid-19 appropriate behaviour,” Garg said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/180-fresh-coronavirus-infections-in-gurugram-13-of-omicron-variant-health-dept-101640889641787.html
31-12-2021||Noida||Kennel owners attack man when asked to return 2 dogs, arrested||A dog kennel owner and his brother were arrested on Tuesday for allegedly attacking a 36-year-old man, when the latter asked for the two dogs he had given for boarding service three years ago in Greater Noida. The suspects have been identified as Nazim Ali (25) and his brother Nadim (23). Punit Kailash, a resident of Senior Citizen Society in Beta 2 area, said in his complaint that he had given his two dogs, of the Dobermann breed, to Nazim for boarding service in December 2018. “Back then, I was doing night shift at my office and it was difficult for me to look after the dogs. I had given the dogs for boarding for a month and paid ₹5,000. However, after a month, Nazim’s phone number was not reachable and he had also changed his address,” said Kailash. The complainant said after a lot of search, he recently got to know that Nazim was running his kennel in Gamma – 2 area in Greater Noida. “I visited his kennel and enquired about my dogs. He said that there was no such dog. This led to an argument and Nazim and his family members attacked me,” said Kailash. He was taken to a hospital for the injuries he sustained on his left eye and received five stitches on his head. Anil Kumar, station house officer of Beta 2 police station, said a case was been registered against Nazim, his brother Nadim, and their sister and mother under sections 147 (rioting), 323 (voluntarily causing hurt), 504 (intentional insult), and 506 (criminal intimidation) of the IPC. “The two brothers were arrested and sent to judicial custody. The two said dogs have not been found at the boarding centre. We are investigating the matter,” said Kumar. Aman Chaudhury (19), who works with Nazim, said Kailash had come to the boarding centre with some people and created a ruckus. “He had allegedly given the two dogs three years ago and never enquired about them. Sometimes, the boarding centre gives dogs for adoption if the owner fail to turn up and claim the dogs. Nazim’s family members had come to rescue him as Kailash and his men were beating him, and this led to an unpleasant incident,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/kennel-owners-attack-man-when-asked-to-return-2-dogs-arrested-101640889580666.html
31-12-2021||Delhi||Deputy CM Sisodia demands funds for MCDs in next Union Budget||Like funds are allocated for other corporations in the country, the Central government should also provide the municipal corporations of Delhi with requisite funds, deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia said Thursday during the annual meeting of chief ministers to discuss Union Budget 2022-2023 with Union finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman. The three municipal corporations of the Capital, especially the East MCD and North MCD are fund-starved and find it difficult to even give salaries to their employees on time. The fund crunch also takes a toll on their performance, particularly in cleaning the city, Sisodia said.“Due to the Covid-induced lockdown, the economic system of all states, including Delhi, has been impacted, so the Central government should pursue GST compensation. Also, for the last 21 years, Delhi has been getting only ₹325 crore out of the Central tax, now it is necessary that the Central government increase the amount. Twenty-one years ago from today, Central assistance used to be 5.14% of Delhi’s budget, which has now come down to 0.9 %,” Sisodia said. He appealed to the Centre to increase Delhi’s Central assistance to ₹2,020 crore in the next budget. “Normal Central assistance to Delhi, which was ₹370 crore in 2000-01, has been raised to only ₹626 crore in 2020-21. However, the expenditure of Delhi has increased more than nine times--from ₹7,200 crore in 2000-01 to ₹69,000 crore in 2021-22. The government of Delhi has incurred expenditure on various Covid-19-related urgent and emergent activities, which are still continuing in view of the prevailing pandemic of Covid-19. Thus, an increase in central assistance is required now,” said Sisodia. Sisodia said that the Delhi government has written a separate letter to home minister Amit Shah requesting to provide Delhi with Central assistance of ₹1,925 crore. “There are discrepancies in the allocation of funds to Delhi, which should be removed by the Central government. Before 2015, a sub-group of chief ministers was formed, it was decided that the Centre would give full money to Union Territories under a scheme of the Central government. But during implementation, Delhi is not given the 100% amount,” said Sisodia. Sisodia added that Delhi’s contribution to the country’s GDP is 4.4%, despite the fact that Delhiites constitute only 1.49% of the country’s population. “The per capita income of Delhi is three times the national average. Delhi’s per capita income is ₹3,54,004, which is about three times higher than the national average of ₹1,28,829 for 2020-21,” said Sisodia. The Fifteenth Finance Commission allocated grant-in-aid of ₹ 4,36,361 crore for local bodies for 2021-2026. “But Delhi’s local bodies were omitted from this, on the principle that only states are covered under the award scheme. The omission of Delhi’s local bodies by the Union Finance Commission on technical grounds does not help the constitutional mandate of strengthening local bodies,” said Sisodia.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/deputy-cm-sisodia-demands-funds-for-mcds-in-next-union-budget-101640889523922.html
31-12-2021||Delhi||Sensational killings, street crime kept Delhi on edge in 2021||Even as the national Capital endured a punishing wave of Covid-19 infection in 2021, cases of crime grew steadily recording a surge over the incidents reported last year with sensational murders and street criminals keeping the city on the edge, according to the Delhi Police data between January 1 and November 30.If the involvement of Olympic medal winner Sushil Kumar in the murder of a fellow wrestler at a city stadium exposed the dark nexus between sportspersons and property dealers, the killing of gangster Jitender Maan alias Gogi inside a courtroom reminded the Capital how organised crime remained a persistent challenge for the security agencies.The city also saw desperate snatchers murdering their victims as the crime, one of the parameters of how safe the streets are for the citizens, rose to 7,645 between January 1 and November 30, compared to 6,434 incidents during the corresponding period last year, showed police data. Cases of vehicle theft, another most frequent crime in the capital, went up again after recording a rare dip last year since 2011, the data showed. A senior Delhi Police officer who asked not to be named said it would not be fair to compare the crime data from 2020 and 2021, because last year, the city was under a strict lockdown. “Besides ease in lockdown restrictions, proactive registration of cases has also been one of the reasons behind the rise in the number of crime cases,” the official said.Crimes against womenAccording to the police data, Delhi reported 1,721 rape cases this year till November 30, compared to 1,448 last year. The number of harassment cases, categorised under ‘eve teasing’ in police records, also surged to 2,193 from 1,824 last year. Among the most shocking rape cases this year was that of a Dalit minor girl who was gang-raped and murdered at a crematorium in west Delhi’s cantonment area on August 1 by four people when she had gone to fetch water from an electric cooler. Cases pertaining to persecution of women within the confines of their house also grew as incidents registered under sections pertaining to cruelty by husband recorded a hike -- from 2,052 last year to 3,221 this year, the data shows. Cases of dowry deaths went up from 96 to 116. Snatching and robberySnatching, considered as a gateway crime, continued to be one of the most frequent in the city with 7,645 cases being reported till November 30, over 6,434 last year. Desperate criminals, many of whom don’t even have a police record, targeted people, mostly women, on two-wheelers taking away gold jewellery and mobile phones. Two incidents, however, underline the limits to which such criminals are ready to go now. The first of these was reported on February, in which a woman was stabbed to death in a lane, just metres away from her house in north Delhi’s Adarsh Nagar even as she held her two-year-old daughter in her arms, and trying to resist two snatchers. The second was reported last week from south Delhi’s Sangam Vihar where a group of at least eight robbed two men in a lane, and beat them brutally with stones leading to the death of one of the victims. As the victim laid lifeless, the robbers took Rs3,000 from his pocket, and walked away. Vehicle theftDelhi is among the cities reporting highest cases of vehicle thefts. 2021 was no different. According to the police data, cases of vehicle thefts increased from 29,353 last year to 31,434 this year (till November 30). Records of vehicles stolen and later traced by police this year showed how far the racket has taken root. Stolen vehicles and thieves were traced as far back as Nagaland, Sikkim and Kashmir. To be sure, vehicle theft is one crime that has seen a continuous increase in Delhi since 2011. But it recorded a dip last year with cases going down to 35,019 from 46,725 in 2019.Murder/attempted murderOn November 3, a 26-year-old man allegedly tied up a 23-year-old woman, a neighbour, and threw acid on her in outer Delhi’s Bawana. The woman succumbed to her injuries two weeks later. Then, on July 7, Kitty Kumaramanglam, the wife of former Union minister PR Kumaramangalam was murdered at her Vasant Vihar house by a man who ironed clothes at lane near her house. But, the incident that even shocked the police force was the murder of gangster Gogi who was shot dead inside a courtroom during the presence of a magistrate by two assailants belonging to a rival gang. The same court was again rocked by another sensational crime when a DRDO scientist managed to take an improvised explosive device inside the court premises and exploded it in an attempt to kill a lawyer who lived in his neighbourhood. The two incidents raised serious questions over the security at districts courts in the capital, and led the police to take urgent measures to enhance security. Police speakThe Delhi Police said any comparison with a year when a nationwide lockdown and rampant restrictions on movement of people were imposed due to a pandemic is bound to be unfair. “It will erroneous comparison. If it is any indication, this year’s crime figures may have followed the trend shown in the second half of last year when there was a sharp increase in crime figures as compared to the first half. Hence there is a need to correctly analyse and interpret crime data to get the actual trends,” said Chinmoy Biswal, Delhi Police’s spokesperson. “Increase in the number of crimes is also to prompt and unbiased registration of cases, and a higher conversion of PCR calls into FIRs. More reporting of crime also reflects increase in the trust that the citizens have in the police that the offences will get registered and solved. This year, we have taken stern action against street crimes as a result of which arrests of criminals has also gone up by 20%. This goes a long way in reducing crime on ground,” he said. “Moreover, with dedicated investigation wings in all police stations now, investigation of crimes will get a boost to further push the conviction rates up which is a big deterrent of crime as well as a marker of justice delivery. Delhi Police is geared up for this,” he said.Rajinder Singh, former Delhi Police officer, who played a vital role in cracking the 2016 gang rape case, said 2020 and 2021 were quite different years when comes to crime in the city. “In 2020, everyone was confined at their homes due to the Covid lockdown for most part of the year, and it affected everyone, including those who committed crimes. Thus, as soon as restrictions were relaxed, the number of street crimes rose sharply as well as that of cyber frauds since people were mostly transacting their businesses online. Besides this, people who were released on parole to decongest prisons, also got involved in various cases,” he said.The Delhi Police also launched several area-specific operations to curb incidents of crime. In the outer north district, police launched the ‘hawk-eye’ operation in which the cops dressed casually and posed as street to catch street criminals. In the northwest district, police launched operation ‘Tejaswini’ to curb crime against women, and in Dwarka district, the police carried out operation ‘Varchasv’, in which the boots on the ground were increased to send a message to the criminals.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/sensational-killings-street-crime-kept-delhi-on-edge-in-2021-101640889400852.html
31-12-2021||Delhi||Delhi adds 1,313 fresh Covid cases, positivity rate at 1.73%||The national capital added 1,313 cases of Covid-19 on Thursday, said the state government’s daily health bulletin, as daily infections jumped to their highest level since May 26.The fresh infections came at a test positivity rate of 1.73%, as the statistic stayed over 1% for the second consecutive day. Delhi has now added an average of 540 cases each day over the past week.However, Delhi did not register any Covid-19 fatalities according to the Thursday bulletin, and a vast number of hospital beds in the city continue be vacant. This is in line with global trends, which show that the Omicron variant — which is likely fuelling Delhi’s ongoing surge — does not cause hospitalisations the same way the Delta variant did.According to the state government’s Delhi Corona app, fewer than 500 hospital beds reserved to treat Covid-19 patients in the Capital are occupied, and over 27,500 are vacant.Currently, over 3,000 people in the city are battling Covid-19, according to the state bulletin.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-adds-1-313-fresh-covid-cases-positivity-rate-at-173-101640889100695.html
