01-11-2020||---||New packaging of Verka ‘PIO’||Amritsar, October 31Verka launched its ‘PIO’ sweetened flavoured milk in different varieties in polypropylene bottles replacing its glass packaging on Saturday. Cooperation Minister Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa while launching the new packaging said the healthy drink can now easily be sold off to remote parts of the country and even abroad.He said Verka milk plant had processed 25 per cent more milk this year in comparison to the last year. He said its daily milk processing had increased to 2.5 lakh litres per day, which can be stretched to 5 lakh litres.Kamaldeep Singh Sangha, MD, MILKFED, said Verka had increased the processing by 13 per cent before the Covid-19.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/new-packaging-of-verka-pio-164298
01-11-2020||---||NGO donates clothes, shoes to the needy||Amritsar, October 31Voice of Amritsar (VOA), a local organisation working for the cause of clean and green city, gifted woollen clothes and shoes to children from poor strata of society to mark Maharishi Valmiki Jyanti.VOA chief Neeta Mehra, and other office-bearers Rakhi Vermani, Indu Arora and others were present on the occasion. Mehra said that they were working for the upliftment of the underprivileged of society.She said they distributed books to the deserving students besides providing them clothes and shoes to stay healthy during winters.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/ngo-donates-clothes-shoes-to-the-needy-164299
01-11-2020||---||Mayor distributes safety kits to safai sewaks in Amritsar||Amritsar, October 31On the occasion of Bhagwan Valmiki Parkash Utsav, Mayor Karamjit Singh and Commissioner Komal Mittal distributed life safety kits and other equipment to sewermen working under the corporation’s northern zone to ensure their safety while working.A special function was organised at Company Bagh. The safety kits, include air-filter masks, rubber gloves, jackets, raincoats, gumboots, safety belts, flashlight LED helmets, lights, aluminum ladders, plastic ropes, traffic cones and oxygen cylinder kits.On the occasion, the mayor said that the sanitation staff had an important role in running the sewerage system of the city smoothly. Even during the Covid-19 pandemic, the sewermen were working round the clock to keep the system in order and perform their duty as warriors. “The MC also has a duty to ensure the health of its employees and take care of their safety. These safety kits have been given to the employees for this purpose so that they can use these kits properly and perform their duties completely without any fear”, the mayor said.The activists of the Sewermen Union and sanitation staff thanked the mayor and Commissioner Komal Mittal. Councillor Mahesh Khanna, chairman O&M sub-committee, executive engineer Manjeet Singh, JE Raman Kumar, JP Sardul Singh, JE Gursharan Singh and JE Tarsem Kumar were present on the occasion.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/mayor-distributes-safety-kits-to-safai-sewaks-in-amritsar-164300
01-11-2020||Amritsar||Criminal Goli brought on production warrant||The Sultanwind police on Saturday brought a notorious criminal, Dharminder Singh Goli, a member of the Bobby Malhotra gang, on production warrant.His involvement was found in three different cases, including murder of Hariya who was shot dead outside the Division B and Sultanwind police stations here in 2016.Besides, he was also involved in the kidnapping and murder of another youth Karanbir Singh, alias Nanu. He was an associate of Hariya. He was abducted from Sultanwind police station area and his bullet-ridden decomposed body was found from Sarhali in Tarn Taran two days later.Perneet Singh Dhillon, SHO, Sultanwind police station, said he was brought from Patiala jail by the Chheharta police in a robbery case. He was now arrested in these two cases.Karanbir was kidnapped by members of the Sonu Kangla gang in the month of March in 2016. He was shot dead by them the same night. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/criminal-goli-brought-on-production-warrant-164301
01-11-2020||Tarn Taran||Police personnel take oath to mark ‘Rashtriya Ekta Diwas’||To mark the 145th birth anniversary of Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel, officials of the district police took an oath in the spirit of unification of country that was made possible by his vision and actions, at the District Administrative Complex here on Saturday.The officials pledged to preserve the unity, integrity and security of the nation and to strive hard to spread the message among fellow countrymen on the occasion of the ‘Rashtriya Ekta Diwas’. It was resolved to solemnly make one’s own contribution to ensue the internal security of the country. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/police-personnel-take-oath-to-mark-rashtriya-ekta-diwas-164302
01-11-2020|| Amritsar||‘Rashtriya Ekta Diwas’ celebrated||‘Punjab Bachao’ march todayAmritsar: ‘Punjab Bachao’ march will start from Jallianwala Bagh after offering prayers at Sri Akal Takht here on Sunday. Giani Kewal Singh, former Jathedar, Takht Sri Damdama Sahib, Guru ki Kashi, will lead the march. The march will cover a large number of villages, towns and cities in Amritsar, Gurdaspur, Pathankot and Tarn Taran districts in its first phase. Khushal Singh, organiser said, “The aim is to awaken the Punjabis and encourage them to fight for the rights of Punjab”. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/rashtriya-ekta-diwas-celebrated-164303
01-11-2020||Amritsar||Nip in air fails to deter farmers’ spirit||The ongoing agitation of farmer organisations at the Butari railway station near Beas to get the three controversial agriculture-related laws repealed completed a month here on Saturday.With the early morning and night temperatures dropping to around 12 degrees Celsius, farmers have started feeling a nip in the air in the night and early morning as they are protesting in the open.“The nights and early mornings will start getting colder if it rains in the next few days. Then it will be difficult spending nights under a tent,” said farmer leader Harmeet Singh.The protest, being held under the banner of 30 farmer organizations, is going on simultaneously at the Butari railway station, the Gehri Mandi railway station, outside the residence of Rajya Sabha member Shwait Malik, toll plazas and petrol pumps of Reliance Industries.The farmer leaders said though cold weather ahead would create problems for them, the protesters would not leave their protesting sites. They said the farmers were already busy as it was harvesting time and many were preparing fields for sowing the next crop but this had not stopped them from attending the protests.Farm leaders Gurmej Singh Timowal, Balwinder Singh Dudhala and Parkash Singh were present. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/nip-in-air-fails-to-deter-farmers-spirit-164304
01-11-2020||---||Vijay Inder Singla felicitates ‘Ambassadors of Hope’ from Amritsar||Amritsar, October 31School Education Minister, Punjab Vijay Inder Singla felicitated the winners of ‘Ambassadors of Hope’ belonging to Amritsar district with an Apple iPad, a laptop and an android tablet during a brief ceremony in view of Covid-19 pandemic on Friday. Apart from congratulating the winners, Singla assured them every possible help in achieving their future goals.Notably, Hridhaan Kapoor, a Class V student of Cambridge International School has been awarded an Apple iPad, while Samreen Kaur, a Class X student of Sacred Heart Senior Secondary School, who stood second in the district, was given a laptop. Rahul Kumar, a Class X student of Government Senior Secondary School, Badhani, has been given an android tablet. The online contest was announced by Punjab Education Department where student entries were invited on the theme of ‘hope and positivity’ during the lockdown.The students were supposed to share audio/video clips of inspirational stories on social media handles and links. As many as 13,862 entries were registered from Amritsar district. The winners, excited to have received their digital devices, thanked the Education Minister for organising the event.While addressing the event, Singla said that besides breaking the world record in eight days, the ‘Ambassadors of Hope’ competition had successfully served its purpose by nurturing skills of students in a positive manner. He said that as many as 1,05,898 school going students had shared their videos in eight days for ‘Ambassadors of Hope’. He categorically said, “Winners have been selected strictly on merit basis.”Apart from a total 66 main prizes, as many as 1,000 consolation prizes were also given to the winners in all 22 districts under the ‘Ambassadors of Hope’.Hridhaan Kapoor, who had submitted a video of ‘safai sewak’, who comes to their area for cleaning as his competition entry, said that he was curiously waiting for his prize and receiving it from School Education Minister made the day very special for him. Rahul who clinched the third position in the district, shared Hridhaan’s excitement as he said that he felt very proud while receiving his prize.Tarn Taran school students honoured at PAP complexEducation Minister Vijay Inder Singla felicitated winners of ‘Ambassadors of Hope’, belonging to Tarn Taran district, with Apple iPad, laptop and android tablet at a function oraganised at the PAP complex in Jalandhar.The competition was organised during the lockdown.Vansh Punj, a Class X student of Maharaja Ranjit Singh Public Senior Secondary School, was awarded an Apple iPad and Ajadwinder Singh, a Class XII student of Government Senior Secondary School, Varnala, who stood second in the district, was given a laptop.Meanwhile, Nimrat Bawa, a Class II student of Guru Amar Dass Adarsh Institute, Goindwal Sahib, was felicitated with an android tablet. As many as 1,318 entries were registered in Tarn Taran district. As many as 1,05,898 school students shared their videos in eight days for ‘Ambassadors of Hope’, the campaign which was launched for students of the state to share their creativity.The third prize winner, Nimrat Bawa, told the Cabinet Minister that she was curiously waiting for her prize.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/vijay-inder-singla-felicitates-ambassadors-of-hope-from-amritsar-164306
01-11-2020||---||Is Covid losing its sting in Amritsar district?||Amritsar, October 31If the number of positive cases reported in the month of October is any indication, the deadly Covid-19 virus seems to have lost its sting as the district health authorities have reported merely 1,831 new cases this month. In comparison, the district had reported a total of 5,939 positive cases during the previous month of September.Even the number of deaths due to the deadly virus has gone down to 86 in October from 203 in the month of September. The district till date has reported a total of 454 deaths and 11,874 positive cases till date.While the situation in the district has remarkably improved during the month of October, the health authorities are keeping their fingers crossed and do not rule out the possibility of a second wave of infections in the winter season.“The next two-three months could be hard and if anything goes wrong, the number of infections may rise in winters especially as it is a festival season. The residents must continue taking all precautions as the threat is not over yet,” said a health official.Meanwhile, no Covid-19 death reported in the district on Saturday. The health authorities have also reported only 11 new positive cases. The new cases include nine influenza-like illness cases and two contacts of positive patients. The district, at present has 301 active cases as the recovery count has reached 11,119.Dist+ve count 11,874Death toll 454Active cases 301Recoveries 11,119||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/is-covid-losing-its-sting-in-amritsar-district-164307
01-11-2020||---||Excise, police officials attacked; eight booked||Amritsar, October 31Several bootleggers attacked officials of the Excise Department and the police at Sohian Khurd village during a raid conducted by them in the village to check bootlegging here on Friday evening.The police have booked eight persons on charges of murder bid and assault. Those booked have been identified as Bau, Dharamvir Singh, Karabir Singh, Sharanbir Singh and four other unknown persons.The complainant, Lovepreet Singh, told the police that he was circle in-charge of Rajindra Wine in Kathunangal area. He said after collecting information about those involved in bootlegging and liquor smuggling in areas of Jetheuwal village, Mehnia Kohara, Malluwal and Sohia Khurd village, he passed it to Excise Department inspector Manjit Singh Majitha.Lovepreet said he, along with a police party, conducted a raid in the area on Friday evening. The accused, who were carrying weapons, reached the spot and attacked them leaving them injured.The police have registered a case under Sections 307, 379-B, 323, 427, 186, 506, 148 and 149 of the IPC against them.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/excise-police-officials-attacked-eight-booked-164309
01-11-2020||Neha Walia||Visually impaired himself, he is lighting the path of many||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, October 31The lockdown has affected everyone differently and for people with disabilities, its impact and repercussions run deeper than one can perceive. But, Rajneesh Sharma is among the rare breed of people that work through the odds, to not just find his own way towards positivity, but for others as well. Visually impaired, the 42-year-old is a life coach and also engages in family’s business of trading. Just when the restrictions blocked the economical veins of the country, Rajneesh found that it was equally harsh on people’s psyche.“The prevailing pandemic had far greater ramifications on people’s mental health as many lost jobs and were forced to remain indoors. Now, the fact that non-satisfaction, fear of pandemic and other factors contributed to some feeling isolated, especially people with disabilities, who unfortunately had to rely on others for ordinary day to day tasks,” he says.So, the next step for him was to use the digital medium to reach out to many like him and others, who needed to share or resonate with his thoughts. He started sharing videos on several subjects, including awareness about the current pandemic and its impact on mental and physical health, social issues like conservation of water resources, environment concerns and so on. “I wanted to somehow break the negativity around and encourage others to let positivity flow. Like many, this was a way to let off some stress for me as well,” he adds.His wife Samridhi and family, too, supported him and Rajneesh now enjoys a considerable following on his YouTube channel. He also shares his deep knowledge on subjects like spirituality and individual growth.The prevailing pandemic had far greater ramifications on people’s mental health as many lost jobs and were forced to remain indoors. Now, the fact that non-satisfaction, fear of pandemic and other factors contributed to some feeling isolated, especially people with disabilities, who unfortunately had to rely on others for ordinary day to day tasks. I wanted to somehow break the negativity around and encourage others to let positivity flow. Like many, this was a way to let off some stress for me as well. —Rajneesh SharmaRajneesh explained that all new ideas are now sprouting spontaneously and he does not require any prompting while he is sharing his thoughts with others. “I got feedback from many who were likeminded and shared their own stories of overcoming the challenges during the lockdown. It’s a healthy exchange of ideas and emotions,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/visually-impaired-himself-he-is-lighting-the-path-of-many-164310
01-11-2020||PK Jaiswar||Notorious gangster Jahaj, Randhir Singh sent to 5-day police custody||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, October 31Notorious gangster Kamaldeep Singh, alias Jahaj, had planned murder of local resident who had refused to give him ransom, besides looting a government bank in Jethuwal village.This came to light during preliminary interrogation of Jahaj who along with Ambala resident Randhir Singh was nabbed by the local police following firing and intensive chase on Friday evening.The duo was produced in the local court which sent them to five day police custody for further interrogation.Jahaj had demanded Rs 10 lakh ransom from Vicky Sharma, a trader in the Mohkampura area. However, he had refused to give the same and the accused had planned to kill him, Mukhwinder Singh Bhullar, Deputy Commissioner of Police, investigations, said.Jahaj had as many as 22 criminal cases including that of attempt to murder, dacoity, and robberies. He was an associate of another notorious criminal Jaggu Bhagwanpuria gang while Randhir Singh was member of Lawrence Bishnoi gang. He had one criminal case registered against him at Ambala. A police team from Ambala has also reached for his interrogation, police officials told.Jahaj was arrested in a robbery case in which he and his accomplices had shot a car agency owner on October 2016. He along with six others was sentenced to 10-year imprisonment. He was released on parole from Ferozepur central jail in July this year and was to return on August 15. But he did not return and was evading arrest since then. He was recently involved in a firing incident in the Mohkampura area.Meanwhile, the police have slapped a fresh case of murder bid and under the Arms Act at the Sadar police station here for allegedly shooting at the police party that left a constable Navjot Singh injured.The police had recovered two pistols including 9 mm foreign made pistol, one .32 bore pistol with 11 live cartridges and 15 empty shells.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/notorious-gangster-jahaj-randhir-singh-sent-to-5-day-police-custody-164311
01-11-2020||Amritsar||2 minor girls sexually assaulted, 4 booked||The police have booked four persons in connection with two sexual harassment cases in Ajnala and Rajasansi.In the first incident, Nanak Singh of Chartewali village in Ajnala, allegedly molested a 14-year-old girl.The victim’s mother stated that on October 29 her two daughters had gone to answer the call of nature. As they were returning, accused asked her elder daughter to marry him. After she refused the proposal, Nanak tore her clothes and threatened her with dire consequences if she revealed the incident to anyone.The police have registered a case under Sections 354-A and 506 of the IPC and Section 10 of the POCSO Act.In the second incident, the Rajasansi police have booked Des Raj alias Bittu, of Riar village, his paramour and her daughter for sexually harassing a minor girl.The father of the victim alleged the accused woman was his sister-in-law who had illicit relationship with Raj. He alleged on October 23, her 14-year-old daughter (the victim) along with her paternal aunt (accused woman) had gone to fields where she along with Raj allegedly tried to make physical relations with her.The police have registered an FIR under Sections 354-A, 354-B, 323 and 34 of the IPC against the trio. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/2-minor-girls-sexually-assaulted-4-booked-164312
