04-11-2020||Amritsar||Miscreants make off with car||Unidentified man found murderedAmritsar: An unknown person was found murdered in Jagdev canal’s bridge falling under the Jhander police station here on Monday evening. The body was first located by Jagjit Singh, a farmer and resident of Patti Sainsra in Daoke village. He immediately alerted the residents and informed the police. He stated to the police that at around 5 pm he went to make a round of his fields, he was going from Jagdev Kalan to Ranewali village side when he found the body of a man. He said the deceased had sharp weapon injury marks on his chest. Sub Inspector Avtar Singh, Investigating Officer, told that around 30-year-old deceased was yet to be identified. He said the message was already circulated in the neighbouring areas and in Punjab. However, there was no clue about his identity till now. A case under Section 302 of the IPC had been registered. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/miscreants-make-off-with-car-165852
04-11-2020||Amritsar||Posters released on harms of tobacco use||The district Health Department on Tuesday released posters to be used for creating awareness about the harms of tobacco usage during the ongoing tobacco awareness week. Civil Surgeon Dr Navdeep Singh said 12 per cent of the total deaths due to heart ailments were due to active or passive smoking. He said passive smokers were at as much risk as active smokers.Dr Singh said the department in the coming days would initiate a drive to check violations regarding the sale and usage of tobacco sale. He said selling tobacco products to minors and within 100 yards of an educational institute was a crime.He said the department would also create awareness among school children about the harms of tobacco use as their age was very impressionistic and they could be easily swayed by advertisements or peer pressure.Stress laid on scientific dairy farming practicesTarn Taran: The five-day vocational training organised at Sangwan village by the Krishi Vigyan Kendra, Booh (Tarn Taran), stressed on scientific dairy farming practices and value addition to dairy produce for self-employment. The experts stressed on livestock reproduction, animal health management and techniques to improve milk production in dairy animals. As many as 30 persons from the weaker section participated in the training.Dr Balwinder Kumar, associate director (training), highlighted the significance of livestock for earning livelihood by small and marginal farmers. He suggested steps to enhance the milk production of cattle and buffaloes through improved package and practices. — TNS/OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/posters-released-on-harms-of-tobacco-use-165836
04-11-2020||---||School not following RTE Act: NCPCR||Amritsar, November 3Responding to a complaint filed by RTI activist Varun Khanna about a prominent city-based school violating Section 18 of the Right to Education Act and CBSE affiliation bye-law, the National Commission for Protection of Child Rights (NCPCR) has written to the DC office to take cognisance of the matter. The issue was brought to light after Varun Khanna had written to NCPCR, responding to which the NCPCR has asked for a complete report of enquiry within 30 days of the receipt of the letter.Khanna said that he had complaint to NCPCR in August regarding the violations by the school and the DEO office had also imposed a fine on the school for the violations. “The school has been running its junior wing branch in Cantonment since 1996 without proper affiliation and recognition from the authorities concerned. The DEO Elementary office had imposed a fine of Rs 20,000 on them for not taking NOC and recognition under the RTE Act. The letter from NCPCR is in response to the complaint.”Meanwhile, the DEO office confirmed that a copy of the letter from the NCPCR was received by them a few days ago. DEO Elementary Kamaljit Singh said that the matter was taken into immediate consideration when reported. “We had imposed a fine on the school acting upon the complaint received and the school management paid the fine. Following this, the school had filed for recognition with all due formalities, the process of which is complete now. We will also take note of the NCPCR letter and act accordingly.” He further said that the affiliations come through DEO Elementary office and sealing of the school, in this matter, was not done for cause of students. Response from Anita Mehra, principal of the school, is awaited.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/school-not-following-rte-act-ncpcr-165831
04-11-2020||---||No Covid death, Amritsar district reports 20 new cases||Amritsar, November 3As many as 20 new positive cases were reported on Tuesday with which the total count of infections in the district has reached 11,937.The health authorities have reported no deaths due to the disease in the last 24 hours. The district, however, has reported a total of 460 deaths so far.The new infections include 17 influenza like illness cases and three contacts of positive patients. Meanwhile, 17 more patients have recovered with which the recovery count has reached 11,204 in the district. The district at present has a total of 273 active cases.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/no-covid-death-amritsar-district-reports-20-new-cases-165830
04-11-2020||---||Farmers to hold ‘chakka jam’ on Punjab highways tomorrow||Amritsar, November 3After sitting on the railway tracks, toll plazas and petrol pumps in protest against three agriculture related laws by the Union Government for 34 long days, farmers have decided to hold a ‘chakka jam’ on highways on November 5.Farm bodies stated that the traffic would remain blocked for four hours. The timing of the road blockade would be from 12 pm to 4 pm. The farm organisations have also appealed to the public to avoid travelling during this time period to save them from inconvenience.Farmers’ leader Lakhbir Singh Nizampura said a meeting with operators union of private buses has also been held and they have announced to support the cause. He added that the operators have decided not to ply their buses on the day.Nizampura said bus operators had announced to participate in dharnas at various places on the day and would not operate on different routes which might cause inconvenience to the public.The leaders stated that the protest would be further intensified with the active involvement of different sections of the society. They stated that the Centre must avoid confrontation with farmers and should instead initiate a dialogue.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/farmers-to-hold-chakka-jam-on-punjab-highways-tomorrow-165829
04-11-2020||Neeraj Bagga||Hoteliers face second economic blow in Amritsar||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, November 3Hoteliers had been on the edge as room occupancy has remained extremely low during the last one month due to farmers’ protest and suspension of train services.They said it was the second economic blow after the lockdown was imposed by the Centre in the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic.Hoteliers urged the Centre to accept demands of farmers and end the stalemate. They feared that stir could lead to surge in price of essential commodities.Hoteliers incurred losses as blockade consumed their entire savings in footing electricity bills, paying salaries and meeting other expenses.Surinder Singh, chief, Federation of Hotels and Guest Houses Association, said, “Footfall of devotees swelled at the Golden Temple in the last two days on account of the birth anniversary of Guru Ram Das.” He said their association had offered 250 rooms free of cost during these two days. He said around 50 per cent of hotels and guest houses in the walled city were yet to open.Unable to implement 30 guidelines associated with the Covid-19 norms to manage spread of the pandemic in hotels and other hospitality units, which were allowed to reopen during the Unlock 1.0 from June 8, most of them remained closed. APS Chatha, chief, Amritsar Hotel and Restaurant Association, said, “A five-star property require around Rs22 lakh per month to meet fixed expenses. So, a hotel requires at least 50 per cent occupancy to become self-sustainable.”He said many of them had opened before the commencement of farmers’ agitation and had gained a little over 20 per cent occupancy, which has now again gone down to nearly 12 per cent.Around 80 per cent of the tourists come either in trains or by roads. Chatha said, “Prospective tourists have changed their plans fearing that the protests may spill on to the roads.” Local tourism experts were of the view that tourists from the National Capital Region (NCR), West Bengal and Gujarat, used to visit the city during this time of the year.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/hoteliers-face-second-economic-blow-in-amritsar-165828
04-11-2020||---||‘Suspension of trains hurting industry’||Amritsar, November 3SAD’s Trade and Industry wing slammed the Centre for its indifferent attitude towards the plight of farmers. They said the farmers’ agitation was causing harm to the trade and industry.Its members called upon the Union Government to immediately resume the operation of goods trains and initiate sincere talks with the agitating farmers groups to end the stalemate.Rajinder Singh Marwaha, senior Vice-president of the SAD’s Trade and Industry wing, said the policies of Narendra Modi government were not only weakening the farmers but also the economy of the state.He said its chain effect was visible on the industry and trade and added that the industry was tottering on the brink of closure for the want of raw material. As a result, labourers were rendered jobless. It was the second closure of the industry after the epic long closure during the lockdown imposed in the wake of the Covid-19 outbreak.Marwaha elaborated that steel and iron formed 70 per cent of the entire raw material utilised in the industry in the state. They are used in spare parts of cycles, autos, tractors, agriculture appliances and many other industries. Both iron and steel come from outside the state. These have not been arriving for the past nearly a month, indicating that these industries may come to a halt anytime.He said industrialists and traders were compelled to raise their voice against the Centre as it was not allowing even goods trains to operate, when the agitating farmers had unequivocally announced that they would not stop goods trains. He said the Centre had even stopped the rural development fund of Rs 1,050 crore which were issued in lieu of procuring paddy and wheat.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/suspension-of-trains-hurting-industry-165827
04-11-2020||---||Missing ‘saroops’: Satkar committee members adamant on confronting SGPC||Amritsar, November 3The Guru Granth Sahib Satkar Committee members, who had launched crusade against the SGPC for missing ‘saroops’, on Tuesday assembled at the Akal Takht.After performing ardas, Sikh activist Sukhjit Singh Khosa told that it was a wrong perception that the protest that went on for over 10 days before being disrupted following a group clash was annulled. He said that the five Sikhs from their side daily come to pay obeisance at the Golden Temple and perform ardas to get justice in missing saroops.“The SGPC task force tried to scuttle our protest by indulging in clash but I wanted to clarify that the Sikh activists were still adamant to confront the SGPC over the whereabouts of missing saroops. Some of our members were admitted in the hospital, but our mission to expose the SGPC’s failed administration will continue”, he said. On October 24, a clash took place in the precincts of Golden Temple complex following which cross-FIRs were registered.Khosa told that at least 60 Sikh activists were booked under serious charges which were far from truth. “I too was booked along with other Sikhs who were attacked by the SGPC task force and were detained for hours. Till date, the police too were lenient and never bothered to get our statements registered”, he said.When asked about a video clip that went viral depicting him to be in an inebriated condition while roaming in the Golden Temple complex, he said, “I am ready to undergo dope test in the presence of ‘panj pyaras’, Granthi Singhs or intellectuals”, he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/missing-saroops-satkar-committee-members-adamant-on-confronting-sgpc-165826
04-11-2020||Neeraj Bagga||Back-breaking potholes here make travelling a nightmare||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, November 3The stretch between Bhandari railway overbridge and Hussainpura chowk cries for attention. Ramps earmarked for one-way traffic have developed massive potholes and upper layer of the road has worn out due to irregular repairs of this stretch.The road has high commercial value and showrooms of engineering goods, marble, hotels and other establishments were situated on this path.It has two intersections, Ghah Mandi chowk and Hussainpura chowk. The former joins the road coming from Ram Bagh, which further connects with Crystal chowk in the civil line area. On the other side, it connects with Ram Bagh Chowk.Aman Mahajan, a shopkeeper, said traffic hardly reduces on this stretch. “Continuous honking and sound of vehicles result in noise pollution, besides fast moving vehicles lead to air pollution. Shopkeepers have installed glass doors to get some solace from noise and dust.”Bhupinder Singh, a passer-by, said the stretch was a nightmare for commuters as the entire road was potholed. He said a large part of the road remained under haphazardly parked vehicles.Amritsar Mayor Karamjit Singh Rintu said the stretch would be repaired soon. He added that its adjoining roads were repaired after the completion of construction on elevated portion.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/back-breaking-potholes-here-make-travelling-a-nightmare-165825
04-11-2020||---||Amritsar city’s book fairy has written off her plans||Amritsar, November 3Nazi Puri, the book fairy of Amritsar and a storyteller, has been working throughout the pandemic to engage kids in literary activities as they are incarcerated at home. The qualified fashion designer and full-time mother, is a part of the international campaign called ‘The Book Fairy’, initiated by actor Emma Watson to promote reading. But ever since the pandemic struck, adjusting to the new scenario has not been easy.“Storytelling or reading to kids, especially the younger lot, is an activity based task that essentially works on the concept of inter-personal communication. Now, with everything shifting to virtual medium, the screen time has to be reduced for kids and this makes it really difficult to connect with them while narrating stories online,” she says. Nazi has been curating and organising storytelling workshops and reading sessions for kids during the lockdown.But the current times don’t provide a solution to her line of profession. “Earlier, a conventional storytelling workshop would last for an hour or more with at least 30-40 minutes of engaging in conversation with kids. Now, the same session has been reduced to 40-45 minutes with no actual response from them as they do not sit before screen for that long. Also, the response is from parents prompting the child to participate in workshop, defeating the purpose of the exercise,” she points out.She has also halted her ‘Book Fairy’ activities till the pandemic prevails. “If I drop the book somewhere there is very little chance that someone would pick it up and pass it on.” Instead, she recommends books to readers now on social media handles. For Nazi, the onset of digital learning for kids is bound to have long term implications like device dependency and various health issues.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/amritsar-citys-book-fairy-has-written-off-her-plans-165824
04-11-2020||PK Jaiswar||Trees in historic Ram Bagh face extinction||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, November 3Trees located in the precincts of the historic Ram Bagh, popularly known as Company Bagh, are facing extinction.Reason: Careless attitude of the authorities concerned, including the Amritsar Municipal Corporation, Punjab Heritage and Tourism Promotion Board and Archaeological Survey of India. They had the responsibility of preserving historic structures belonging to Maharaja Ranjit Singh’s summer palace.Numerous trees had dried up and fallen due to the pest attack. Ram Bagh has many rare varieties of trees and a number of these date back to the 19th century. Some of the varieties only grow in the Himalyas and Nilgiris.It’s unfortunate that the authorities concerned had been spending crores in preserving the buildings, but hardly spend a penny for protecting green cover at the site. Information obtained through an RTI revealed that there was only one safai sewak though there were around 29 gardeners deployed in the park, said Kulwant Singh Ankhi, patron, Amritsar Vikas Manch.While pest attack was one of the major reasons for loss of green cover, rodents also create problems. Residents offer grains in the platform erected around huge trees, which invite birds as well as rodents.Excavation of earth from the Ram Bagh to ‘protect’ the heritage buildings was also behind drying of trees as digging exposed roots.PS Bhatti, an environmentalist, said the entire garden and landscape was the responsibility of the MC.“To protect trees, we have coated trunks of trees in many parks in the Ranjit Avenue area. From next week, we will start the treatment of trees in the Ram Bagh area to save them from pest attack,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/trees-in-historic-ram-bagh-face-extinction-165804
04-11-2020||---||Security guard’s death: Hotel owner, manager among 5 booked||Amritsar, November 3A day after the death of Satbir Singh (32), a security guard, in a freak accident at a reputed hotel in the posh Ranjit Avenue area here, the police on Tuesday booked hotel owner Gurjinder Singh, manager Tarsem Singh and three other unknown staff members on charges of culpable homicide and destruction of evidence.Robin Hans, Station House Officer, Ranjit Avenue police station, confirmed this. He said further investigation was under progress.Gurjinder Singh, owner of the hospital, said it was an accident and that the police worked under pressure following an agitation by Satbir’s family members.He explained that it was a service lift and Satbir tried to stop it when its sliding door was closing. He put his feet in the lift to stop the door from closing. But it did not stop and he slipped and stuck in the lift leading to his death. He said his staff would fully cooperate with the police in investigation. Satbir was working for a private security company with whom the hotel management had a contract for security.The victim’s family members alleged that he died due to the negligence of the hotel management. They said hotel authorities informed neither the police nor the family members when the incident took place. They informed the family and the police three hours after his death.Amrik Singh, a relative of the victim, said Satbir, a resident of Dhapai village and father of a six-year-old daughter, had been working as a security guard at the hotel for the past seven months. He said at around 12.30 pm, the family got a phone call from the hotel that Satbir had got injured in an accident. They alleged he died due to the negligence of the hotel authorities.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/security-guards-death-hotel-owner-manager-among-5-booked-165803
04-11-2020||Neeraj Bagga||Only shades of grey rule his peak days||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, November 3Ajay Kumar, a trained mehndi artist from Mumbai, has never seen such a lean season in his line of work before, especially at this time around.Take for instance, the festival of Karwa Chauth. The customers begin seeking the services of his likes as early as a day or two before. “This time, the number of customers has greatly reduced than last year,” he says. Ajay felt that it stems from the dwindling income of common people who are trying to save on unnecessary expenses.Hailing from Agra, he had chosen the holy city to display his skills after one of a suggestion from his relatives. An artist will stay only at that place where his art is valued and handsomely paid. “So, we had decided to come here about seven years ago. We specially procure mehndi from Rajasthan for its intrinsic qualities,” he shares.His brother Vinod accompanies him in the work ran from a rented shop. They had reopened only in September to a spiritless start. Before this, both had been living on savings for over five months during the lockdown period. “Though the profession of applying mehndi has become an year-round job but its peak season commences with the marriage season. So, four months duration, starting from October, can rightly be termed as the high time.In addition, this time around they have to work under changed circumstances owing to the prevailing pandemic. “As you can see I am wearing gloves and a face mask, besides keeping a sanitiser. Even then I specifically ask customers to keep some distance,” Ajay seems well wary of the lurking threat of virus.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/only-shades-of-grey-rule-his-peak-days-165802
04-11-2020||Neha Saini||Covid hits Karwa Chauth, wins hands down||Tribune news serviceAmritsar, November 3The pandemic seems to have come down heavily on the Karwa Chauth festivities this year, as women folk restrain their celebrations and festive mood.The festival, symbolising marital harmony and bond between couples, had off late become a major pomp and show event, fostering business of henna artists, salons and designer fashion labels. But since it is 2020, the year of Covid-19, Karwa Chauth, too, has been overshadowed by the pandemic.Lawrence Road, that used to turn into a mehndi arena days ahead of Karwa Chauth, saw only a handful of henna artists waiting for women to show up. The business has dropped to 40 per cent due to the pandemic, as women preferred to skip the ritual in the wake of Covid-19. “The business has been brisk this year, as most women are avoiding professional henna artists for the fear of coming in contact. Our bookings have reduced to almost 40-50 per cent despite heavy discounts and cutting down henna prices. Earlier, we used to charge Rs1,500-Rs2,000 per sitting, especially for new brides. But this year, we are not getting many new brides,” said Manoj Kumar, a henna artist from Lawrance Road.Manoj, who used to work with a team comprising 10-12 artists from Delhi, Agra, Lucknow and Kolkata, said people used to get bookings in advance. “We had cut down our rates by 30 per cent this time, but still customers did not come. So far, only a handful of women have come.” Some artists were even carrying PPE kits with them as a precaution.He said despite artists taking all mandatory safety precautions with masks and sanitisers, the business was very slow. According to henna artist Bhavna, another factor for the slow business was the spending capacity of people, which was affected directly due to the lockdown. “Since people’s income has been affected, they are not spending as they used to during festivals. It will be bad for economy, as many livelihoods including that of henna artists depended on the festival spree.”Even make-up artists, too, had to cancel plans due to lack of orders and bookings. “Everyone is keeping in mind their safety and since make-up and henna requires direct contact with artists, not many are preferring to opt for professionals,” said Saloni Arora, a salon owner. There are hardly any cultural event or activities for Karwa Chauth this time and it has been replaced by small house parties to avoid large gatherings.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/covid-hits-karwa-chauth-wins-hands-down-165801
