08-11-2020||The last few years have been troublesome for sensitive and perceptive people||Lessons from Amritsar, 1981||I want to narrate a small link in the chain of events that wreaked havoc in Punjab for more than two decades. Small innocuous beginnings organised by the people of the type mentioned above led to the drama of death and violence. One such incident, orchestrated from behind the scenes, while I was posted as the Amritsar SSP occurred in 1981 in the form of an anti-tobacco march.Militancy had started picking up under the leadership of the Damdami Taksal based at Chowk Mehta near Baba Bakala. The head of the Taksal was Jarnail Singh Bhindranwale, a relatively young and unknown person at the time of his taking over after the death of Sant Kartar Singh in an accident. In the aftermath of the Baisakhi clash of April 13, 1978, the Taksal remained busy in agitating against the Nirankaris. However, Bhindranwale was consumed with the humiliation he had received in the Baisakhi clash and was always looking out for causes he could take up to challenge the state. By 1981, he had acquired a strong following. The role played by various parties in helping in sustaining and strengthening this militancy and allowing its followers to get armed was only to further their own political agendas.The incident I want to narrate began with the floating of the idea of having Amritsar declared as a holy city. Further, smoking of tobacco was sought to be banned in the city. Bhindranwale was staying in Guru Ram Das Ji Serai, which was the doing of SGPC president Gurcharan Singh Tohra. There was a Congress government in the state headed by Darbara Singh.Bhindranwale announced that he would take out an armed procession from Sri Darbar Sahib to the Baradari on May 29, 1981, and himself lead it. This announcement led to a lot of concern and various efforts were made to forestall the march. I was asked, rather directed, to meet Bhindranwale to persuade him to give up the march. An appointment was fixed at his place and this was done through Amrik Singh (son of Sant Kartar Singh), who was a far more reasonable person. I was to go alone without any security.He as usual was sitting on his bed and there was a chair for me, which was a good sign because he normally did not offer one to visitors. After the usual pleasantries, I came to the point and requested him to withdraw his call for a procession and that the government would consider the issue of placing a ban on smoking in the city. His immediate response was to reject the request. He said he had given his word to the ‘sangat’. For the next hour or so, we went back and forth and I ultimately told him that I was not going to leave the room till he had agreed to my request. He then went out and conferred with Amrik Singh and told me that an unarmed march would take place and would go only up to the Kotwali, a short distance from Darbar Sahib. He also agreed not to lead it personally. He wanted an officer to receive a memorandum at the Kotwali, after which they would disperse. I thanked him and informed the government (perhaps a bit too soon).However, events were to take a different turn the next day. On May 28, when I was going back to office after lunch, I heard a lot of sloganeering. I was informed that some boys belonging to a particular community and led by BJP MLA late Harbans Lal Khanna had taken out a procession in vehicles and most of them were smoking cigarettes and showing them off. Objectionable slogans were raised and on the way they tossed up the turbans of a couple of Sikhs. The atmosphere in the city and especially around Darbar Sahib was surcharged with tension. The procession for the 29th was revived, and this time Bhindranwale would lead it. I was asked to get in touch with him again but I refused, knowing that in light of the obviously provocative, mischievous procession of the 28th, there would be an immediate response from Bhindranwale in the form of reviving his armed procession.We had a long meeting at the Kotwali and it was decided that officers would be deployed tactically along the route and with the procession. Experienced officers would bring up the rear as it could be a major source of trouble. Another key decision taken was to remain deployed during the dispersal of the crowd, which would be in the form of small groups going in different directions.The procession began and there were thousands of persons with all types of arms. The bazaars were closed and not a soul was to be seen along the route. I was at the head alongside the Taksal leadership and we were virtually jogging, perspiring profusely and perpetually thirsty. We were kept hydrated by the volunteers of the Taksal, who, in the true Sikh spirit, gave water to the protesters as well as the policemen. Along the way, the wireless chaps kept on reporting clashes and deaths. I told myself to get the procession to reach its destination and then take stock. We reached the Baradari, a few kilometres from Darbar Sahib, in record time, where after short speeches the dispersal started. I stationed myself at the Kotwali, where we had kept about 15 mobile groups. During dispersal, these came in handy and I kept on dispatching them to trouble spots. Finally, I was left alone with my vehicle. At this stage, Amrik Singh and Avinashi Singh (PA to Tohra) came to me and said they had kept their promise that no violence would take place. Just then, information came that Bibi Amarjit Kaur, a firebrand, was heading towards Dr Baldev Prakash’s clinic in an interior location. I had nobody to send and I requested Amrik Singh and Avinashi Singh to go in their own car and bring her back. Dr Prakash was a senior BJP leader and a very decent human being. Fortunately, they reached in time and brought her back to the Kotwali. After that, I waited for the officers to come back and report. It was heartening to hear that not a single death or clash had taken place and all the reports to the contrary were ‘fake news’. Although there had been grave apprehensions of large-scale violence, the police managed to ensure that no such thing happened in spite of being outnumbered and ill-equipped.In the next couple of days, I went over the whole chain of events and came to the conclusion that the pro-smoking procession led to all our immediate problems, which were to increase later on. Within a few months, I was offered a deputation to the CBI, which I accepted. When I reached Delhi, I was met at the railway station by some of my batchmates, who informed me of major trouble at Chowk Mehta that day and of people having died in police firing. Mischief was really afoot, but for the time being, I was out of it.Today, once again, divisive forces are hard at work creating a similar witches’ brew and we are standing at the crossroads of history, not knowing which path this country will follow. To the men in uniform, I can only say it is under your watch now and in these difficult times, be true to your oath and follow the law of the land.— The writer is ex-chairman of UPSC, former Manipur Governor and served as J&K DGP||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/lessons-from-amritsar-1981-167746
08-11-2020||Manmeet Singh Gill||Pulling at heartstrings by singing praises of the Lord||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, November 7Up to the mid ’90s, and before the advent of private television channels in the country, if Doordarshan selected a single track of an artiste to telecast, it surely was the certificate of stardom for a singer.Kumar Darshan, now a 60-year-old, was a household name in the city back then not only because people had seen him on TV, but for his popularity as a jagran singer.Darshan had come up with four albums of Punjabi songs apart from numerous numbers in religious songs in the ’90s. His first album of religious tracks was released in 1994. “The album was released in Islamabad area. The general public from entire city attended the jagran,” he said. Darshan said it was the time when Chheharta was still known as a village and city had not expanded much.He also did 50 parody songs (one per episode) for Vivek Shauq’s comedy show ‘Patake Tha’. Having sung with the likes of Anuradha Paudwal, Sadhna Sargam and many others, Darshan was also the voice behind title song for Hindi film ‘Phool Bani Phoolan’, a film on the life of bandit queen Phoolan Devi.Having felt what it is like to be a star before the advent of internet, Darshan feels that times have drastically changed. “Those were the times when people used to listen to music and enjoy. Now, you do not listen to a song, you watch it,” he commented.Having an orchestra party at a marriage function was something everybody could not afford. We were booked by people from across the state. I had worked in Bombay till 1999, for almost five years. Then I had to come back due to family issues. Now, it is mere pomp and show, the old flavour is missing. —Kumar Darshan, A popular jagran singer in the ’90sMusic is lifeThe singer revealed that he had started singing at jagratas as a 9-year-old. “My father used to play the role of Rama in Ramlila. My brother was very good on dholak and he would direct music later,” he said, adding that his journey started with his brother and later went on to make his own troupe.Darshan had been a much sought after artiste, when live orchestra was played in marriages instead of the DJs. “Having an orchestra party at a marriage function was something everybody could not afford. We were booked by people from across the state,” he remembered.Having spent five years in Mumbai, he also had performed at marriages of some big names. A 50-men troupe was also assembled by him to light up the marriage of Shravan’s son (music director Nadeem-Shravan). “I had worked in Bombay till 1999, for almost five years. Then I had to come back due to family issues,” Darshan said. According to him, the present-day jagratas and Ramlilas, too, have changed. “Now it is mere pomp and show, the old flavor is missing,” he summed. Nowadays, he manages back stage for his son, Vicky Gill, who has followed in the footsteps of his father and is a singer himself.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/pulling-at-heartstrings-by-singing-praises-of-the-lord-167660
08-11-2020||---||Culpable homicide: Case against six||Amritsar, November 7The police booked six persons on the charge of culpable homicide for thrashing a man to death here on Saturday. The victim has been identified as Jaswant Singh, a resident of Mehmand Mandrawala village.They had entered into a scuffle with the victim on Friday night. As he fell unconscious, he was rushed to a hospital where doctors declared him dead. Jaswant was a former sarpanch of the village and belonged to the Shiromani Akali Dal.Those booked include former sarpanch Kashmir Singh, his wife Rajwinder Kaur and their two sons Kulwinder Singh and Gurjit Singh and Baljit Singh and Talwinder Singh, all residents of the same village.Gurjant Singh, son of the victim, told the police that he, along with his father Jaswant Singh, was returning home after closing down the shop. He said he went to see cattle in the shed.He said a few minutes later, he heard cries and came out of the shed. He said the accused, who were under the influence of liquor, were thrashing Jaswant Singh. He said as he fell down, he rushed him to hospital where doctors declared him dead.Mantej Singh, SHO, Ramdass police station, said the police had registered a case under Sections 304, 148 and 149 of the IPC against the accused. He said raids were on to nab the culprits who were absconding since the incident.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/culpable-homicide-case-against-six-167661
08-11-2020||---||Illegally stored crackers worth Rs 2 lakh seized, two arrested||Amritsar, November 7The rural police, acting on a tip-off, raided two shops in Bhilowal Pakka village on Saturday and confiscated a large quantity of illegally stored firecrackers.Two separate FIRs were registered at the Lopoke police station.Those booked were identified as Mandeep and Harsh Kumar. Both have been arrested and further investigations were on in the case.Similar raids were conducted at Rayya and Majitha area as well. From Rayya, the police nabbed Vipin Arora, who runs a grocery shop in the area. The police have confiscated firecrackers worth Rs2 lakh from them.In another raid, Gulshan of Majitha, who has a mobile repair shop at Majitha vegetable market, was booked.Separate cases under the Explosive Substances Act have been registered against them.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/illegally-stored-crackers-worth-rs-2-lakh-seized-two-arrested-167662
08-11-2020||---||District reports another death, 24 new cases in Amritsar district||Amritsar, November 7The district has reported another death due to Covid after which the toll has reached 462. The deceased has been identified as Jasbir Kaur, a 76-year-old resident ofGuru Ramdass Nagar on Sultanwind Road.The health authorities have also reported 24 new positive cases in the district, with which the total count of infections has reached 12,064.The new cases include 18 influenza like illness cases and six contacts of the positive patients.Meanwhile, with the recovery of 29 patients, the recovery count has reached 11,277. The district at present has a total of 325 active cases.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/district-reports-another-death-24-new-cases-in-amritsar-district-167663
08-11-2020||---||Now, water, sewerage bills to all||Amritsar, November 7The operation and maintenance wing (O&T) of the Municipal Corporation has decided to distribute water and sewerage bills to all consumers, including illegal connection holders, in the city. A decision in this regard was taken at a meeting of the Water and Sewerage Department held under the chairmanship of water supply and sewerage sub-committee chairman Mahesh Khanna here on Friday evening.At present, the MC is sending water and sewerage bills to around 30,000 connection holders out of the total 2.30 lakh consumers. During the current financial year, the MC has set a target of collecting around Rs 35 crore as dues from consumers.Officials of the Water Supply and Sewerage Department disclosed that in the present records, there were only 65,000 consumers but the actual number of consumers was around four times higher. A large number of connection holders are using the services without any consent and without fulfilling the legal provisions which are required for using the services.Due to a fall in the recovery of revenue collection during the Covid-19 pandemic, the wing has now decided to fast-track the recovery of dues so that the ongoing development works could be completed in a time-bound manner. —Mahesh Khanna, Chairman, Water & Sewerage Department Councillor Mahesh Khanna said, “He has issued instructions to distribute the bills on time and ensure the recovery of dues. Further, the meeting has decided to investigate illegal water and sewerage connections and take measures to regularise illegal connections.”Khanna said due to a fall in the recovery of revenue collection during the Covid-19 pandemic, the wing had now decided to fast-track the recovery of dues so that the ongoing development works could be completed in a time-bound manner.According to information, there are over Rs 2.70 crore pending dues standing against the existing legal connection holders. Major government and commercial connection holders have not been paying the water and sewerage bills for a long time, say sources in the department.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/now-water-sewerage-bills-to-all-167664
08-11-2020||Neeraj Bagga||As schools reopen, workload on teachers increases manifold||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, November 7As more schools affiliated with the Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) reopened, the workload of teachers has increased manifold.Ironically, most schoolteachers had not been paid full salary in the wake of the Covid-19 outbreak.The state government announced to reopen schools from Class IX to Class XII after getting the approval of parents, but the CBSE-affiliated schools reopened only Class X and Class XII students. On an average around 30 per cent students were attending regular classes and others were taking online lessons, which stretch up to evening.A teacher on condition of anonymity said she had left her two kids at home to attend the school. After returning home, I took online classes in the evening, she said.School managements and parents had been locked in a legal battle over annual charges. Besides a large number of parents were not paying monthly fee. As a result, schools held back nearly 30 per cent salary of their staff.Dr Dharamveer Singh, chairman, Sahodya Schools, appreciated the efforts of teachers and said they had to teach the same subject in a classroom and online as well.He said the pending salary would be released once they receive full fees from parents. He said a large number of parents were not depositing fees, which resulted in liquidity crunch. Chief Khalsa Diwan, which has five CBSE-affiliated schools and four ICSE schools had reopened on November 3.The state government had allowed all categories of schools, including, government, aided and private to reopen for Class IX to Class XII. However, only the government schools had reopened on October 19.DAV International School reopened today. Springdales Public School had reopened on October 3. Bhavans’ SL Public School has been operational for the last two weeks.The schools were following the health guidelines and were allowing only 10 students in a single classroom.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/as-schools-reopen-workload-on-teachers-increases-manifold-167665
08-11-2020||Amritsar||FCI reviews procurement of paddy||During an overview of the procurement and mandi system in the state, Dr SP Sarvanan, National Board of Director, Food Corporation of India (FCI), said the procurement of paddy was already completed up to 90 per cent as per the targeted allocation given to the FCI and approximately 65,801 MT of paddy was procured by the FCI in Amritsar division.“The operations have been undertaken within the prescribed guidelines of the Government of India and the payments to the farmers have been made through arthiyas under the APMC provision of the Government of Punjab,” he said.Talking about the farmers’ protest, he said, farmers were opposing the laws basically on the grounds of insecurity for non-payment of MSP. “It appears that the agitation of farmers is not limited to farmers only, as the involvement of middleman in the agitation cannot be ruled out,” he said.Besides, there is also a need for the rationalisation of production of crops in Punjab, he said, adding that it was strongly felt that policies be implemented for motivation of other crops in a segregated manner. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/fci-reviews-procurement-of-paddy-167666
08-11-2020||---||Chief Minister upgrades 11govt schools into smart category virtually||Amritsar, November 7Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh virtually upgraded 11 schools into smart category and gave tablets to students on Saturday. The schools that were upgraded include Government Senior Secondary School, Maha Singh Gate; Senior Secondary School, Maha Singh road; Senior Secondary School, Karampura; Senior Secondary School, Sanhsara Kalan; Senior Secondary School, Nawa Kot; Senior Secondary School, Lopoke; Senior Secondary School, Bandala; Shahid Jaimal Singh Bal Senior Secondary School, Manawala Kalan; Senior Secondary School, Athwal; Senior Secondary School, Beas; and Senior Secondary School, Gumanpura.The programme was specifically relayed at Government Senior Secondary School for Girls, Mall Road, where MLAs Sunil Dutti, Santokh Singh Bhalaipur and Deputy Commissioner Gurpreet Singh Khaira, among others, were present.The DC said the Chief Minister addressed students, their parents, staff and heads of 99 schools in the district, besides members of the school management committees of panchayats. He said all 11 Assembly segments in the district had a smart school.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/chief-minister-upgrades-11govt-schools-into-smart-category-virtually-167667
08-11-2020||Our Correspondent||Istri sabha alleges irregularities in selection of candidates under PSRLM||Tarn Taran, November 7The local unit of Istri Mulazam Talmel Committee (IMTC) alleged that no transparency was adopted in the selection of different posts to be filled in the Rural Development and Panchayat Department in the district.Rajinder Kaur, district president of the committee and other leaders of the organisation, on Saturday said the workers of the IMTC organised a protest at the office of the local Additional Deputy Commissioner (Development) on Friday and submitted a memorandum to the ADC (D) Paramjit Kaur.They alleged that many other gross irregularities were committed in the selection of many other categories and there were huge discrepancies in the selection of cluster coordinators’ (CC) posts selected under the Punjab State Rural Livelihood Mission (PSRLM).The leaders said though the officials claims that the minimum qualification for the post of CC was graduation one of the selected candidate, was just a Class XII pass out.The leaders said for the posts of CC under BC category, there was one post and at least three candidates were to be selected and all three were to be called for interview, while in the list of the selected candidates displayed on the notice board, only two candidates’ name was shown, but only single candidate was called for the interview.The leaders alleged that this way transparent system was ignored while filing other posts such as that of the District Programme Manager (DPM), District Functional Manager (DFM), Block Programme Manager (BPM) and MIS Assistant.‘Gross irregularities’The leaders said for the posts of CC under BC category, there was one post and at least three candidates were to be selected and all three were to be called for interview, while in the list of the selected candidates displayed on the notice board, only two candidates’ name was shown, but only single candidate was called for the interview. They have also alleged that this way transparent system was ignored while filing several posts such as District Programme Manager, District Functional Manager, Block Programme Manager and MIS Assistant.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/istri-sabha-alleges-irregularities-in-selection-of-candidates-under-psrlm-167668
08-11-2020||---||Uneven manholes on this stretch give commuters a turbulent time||Amritsar, November 7The stretch of the Batala road from Government Dental College to Verka bypass is all about potholes, bumpy ride and lack of concern. Apart from potholes and scattered pebbles, unlevelled sewerage manholes are also a frequent sight on the road.Thousands of vehicles going towards Batala, Gurdaspur, Pathankot, Jammu and even Himachal Pradesh use this path every day. Even the vehicles travelling to Verka and the nearby villages frequent this road.The shopkeepers along the stretch stated that many a time, many two-wheelers have met with an accident due to unlevelled manholes. “Only this week, two girls riding a scooter fell after hitting the pothole. They had a narrow escape,” said a shopkeeper Hardev Singh.In view of the safety of the commuters, the manholes are required to be at the same level of the road. The vehicles moving at moderate speeds of the stretch often fail to spot the potholes in time, resulting in accidents. The shopkeepers complained that the safety of commuters does not seem to bother local authorities and politicians. “Considering the encroachments, especially during evening hours by several fruit and vegetable vendors during heavy rush hours, the administration must ensure a regular patrolling to ensure smooth flow of traffic,” suggested another shopkeeper Sumit Mahajan.Residents of localities near pillar No. 70 to 90 of the elevated BRTS corridor also complained of waterlogging during the rainy season. Water from the elevated road and the nearby areas get inundated on the stretch even after a short spell of rains, they complained.The seepage of sewerage water in the middle of the road near the residence of Congress MLA Sunil Dutti is also an inconvenience for the commuters as the four-wheelers moving at a high speed often splash dirty water on them.No end to woes in sightResidents of localities near pillar No. 70 to 90 of the elevated BRTS corridor have complained of waterlogging during the rainy season. Water from the elevated road and the nearby areas gets inundated on the stretch of the road even after a short spell of rain during monsoons, they rued. The seepage of sewerage water in the middle of the road near the residence of Congress MLA Sunil Dutti is also an inconvenience to commuters as four-wheelers moving at a high speed splash dirty water on them.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/uneven-manholes-on-this-stretch-give-commuters-a-turbulent-time-167669
08-11-2020||---||Vipin Dhand elected Bar assn president for 4th time||Amritsar, November 7Vipin Dhand won the Amritsar Bar Association elections which were held here on Friday. He defeated seven-time president Pardeep Saini by securing 805 votes while Saini polled 666 votes.Around 1,505 votes were polled against a total of 1,800 votes. Dhand was elected president for the fourth time. The results were declared at around 11pm on Friday.Inderjit Singh Ari was elected as secretary of the Bar association for the third consecutive time. He defeated Nirmal Singh Aulakh and Raman Chaudhry. He scored 562 votes.Similarly, Rajan Kataria won the post of vice-president by securing 776 votes. He defeated Pankaj Sharma and Sandeep Walia.For joint secretary, Rajdeep Singh Ghuman was declared winner. He got 932 votes and defeated Dheeraj Anand and Gaganjit Singh. Vishal Sharma won the post of cashier by getting 578 votes. He defeated Lovely Sharma, Manoj Mohindru and Jatinder Singh Bedi. Palwinder Singh, Rakesh Kumar Sharma, Rahul Singh Sodhi, Parminder Singh, Mohan Bhagat and Sandeep Kaushal were declared as executive members. Though the votes were timely polled and counting was done, the results got delayed when contestants demanded the recounting of the votes.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/vipin-dhand-elected-bar-assn-president-for-4th-time-167670
08-11-2020||Our Correspondent||Students get free tablets||Tarn Taran, November 7As many as 60 schools of the district were included in the 1,467 government smart schools of the state which were dedicated to the public in a virtually inaugurated ceremony presided over by Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh on Saturday. In the ceremony, the 133 students of two Government Primary schools of the district were also given tablets for free. Dr Dharambeer Agnihotri, MLA, Tarn Taran, participated in the ceremony organised at the local Sri Guru Arjun Dev Government Girls Senior Secondary School.Harminder Singh Gill MLA Patti was the chief guest in the function organised at Government High School, Kairon, and Sukhpal Singh Bhullar MLA Khemkaran inaugurated the ceremony in Government Senior Secondary School, Khemkaran. Santokh Singh Bhalaipur, MLA, Baba Bakala, participated in the function organised at Government Senior Secondary School, Bhailpur. SDM Khadoor Sahib was the chief guest in the ceremony held at Government Senior Secondary School, Khadoor Sahib, who also distributed tablets to the students .Deputy Commissioner Kulwant Singh while participating in a series of functions of inauguration distributed 133 tablets to the students of Government Primary School (GPS) Kot Dharam Chand Khurd and GPS Jandoke at District Administrative Complex. SSP Dhruman H Nimbale, Satnam Singh Bath DEO (Secondary) ,Varinder Kumar Parashar DEO (Elementary ) and other officials of the education department participated in the function.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/students-get-free-tablets-167671
08-11-2020||---||MLA Raj Kumar Verka’s cook ends life||Amritsar, November 7Nam Bahadur Rana, alias Sandeep, a resident of Nepal, who works as cook at the residence of Congress MLA Raj Kumar Verka, on Saturday ended his life at store room located on the rooftop of the residence of Verka located in the Kennedy Avenue area here.The police took the body into possession and handed over to family members after autopsy. The police have started inquest proceedings under Section 174 of the CrPC in the case.The police said that he was upset due to illness of his father and further investigations were on.The body was taken into possession in the presence of the cook’s family members on Saturday.No suicide note was found from the spot, said police officials.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/mla-raj-kumar-verkas-cook-ends-life-167672
08-11-2020||---||Robbery: cops grope in dark||Amritsar, November 7Even after elapsing of 24 hours, the Cantonment police were still groping in the dark in the robbery incident in which armed looters decamped with gold jewellery and cash worth Rs 8 lakh after making a trader’s family hostage in the Guru Arjan Dev Nagar area on Friday. The miscreants gained entry into the house by posing as sewer cleaners.Ranjit Singh, SHO, Cantonment police station, told that though the perpetrators took away the digital video recorder from the victim’s home, they have CCTV footage from the area which would help the police in identifying the suspects.He said a case under Sections 454, 380, 342 and 34 of the IPC and 25, 27, 54 and 59A of the Arms Act against unknown persons.The victim, Devinder Singh Bedi, who is a textile trader, was at his house along with his wife, daughter-in-law and two grandchildren. One of their grandchildren, Janu, was injured as he intervened when the accused attacked Bedi.Bedi said, “Around 4 pm, the accused knocked at the entrance gate. They opened a manhole outside my house. When I went out, the miscreants demanded a polythene bag to dump the silt removed from the manhole. When I went inside, they followed me.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/robbery-cops-grope-in-dark-167675
08-11-2020||---||Youth arrested with weapon||Amritsar, November 7A man was nabbed with a country-made weapon while his accomplice managed to flee away from the spot.The suspect has been identified as Ranjodh Singh of Jhuhar Nagar in Jandiala. The one who managed to flee from the spot has been identified as Harpreet Singh of the Sidhu Avenue.The police recovered a .32 bore pistol with a magazine and two bullets.Harjinder Singh, investigating officer, said a special naka was laid near Dharad village canal. Vehicles were also being checked. He said they signalled a bike coming from Sheikhfatta village to Jandiala to stop but he tried to flee. During this, Ranjodh fell from the bike while Harpreet sped away.During the search, the police confiscated the weapon from him. The police have registered a case under the Arms Act against the accused. He said raids were on to nab his accomplice.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/youth-arrested-with-weapon-167676
08-11-2020||Harvinder Singh||‘ASI staved off the dark side of virus’||Last month he was transferred to Jalandhar and posted in reserve battalion. "Hundreds of police personnel often gather at one place for the VIP duties. You can't trace the link of the infected person but I got mild fever on October 15. Next day, the routine test was conducted before my deployment at Punjab Vidhan Sabha, Chandigarh. I tested positive and was granted a leave," he added.There is no vaccination till date, but if you have good immunity, it will not affect you much. People should work out daily and take a healthy diet. Being a part of the Punjab Police, I was always in high spirits and tackled the disease positively. There is nothing to worry about…but we have to follow the recommendations of health authorities. —Harvinder Singh, ASI, Punjab Police"I reached home and self-isolated in one of the rooms. My family supported me a lot. I was suffering from mild fever, fatigue and sore throat. We then resorted to home remedies and antibiotics, recovery started within three-four days. On October 23, I started moving inside the house taking precautions all the while. I was in isolation for 10 days and then got tested again but it came out negative," the ASI told.Harvinder joined the duty on November 3 and came back stronger in his resolution to serve the public on any front. "Though, there is no vaccination till the date but if you have good immunity it will not affect you much. The people should workout daily and take healthy diet, too. Being a part of armed force, I was always in high spirits and tackled the disease positively. There is nothing to worry…but we have to follow the recommendations of health authorities," he signed off.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/asi-staved-off-the-dark-side-of-virus-167677
08-11-2020||---||Missing ‘saroops’: Former Jathedar Ranjit Singh leads protest outside Golden Temple||Amritsar, November 7Akal Takht former Jathedar Ranjit Singh along with a few SGPC members and his supporters took out a protest march towards the Golden Temple and held a sit-in today, questioning the SGPC about the whereabouts of 328 missing ‘saroops’ of Guru Granth Sahib.They held a four-hour-long sit-in outside the Ghanta Ghar Gate where neither representatives from the SGPC nor Akal Takht came out to meet them.He alleged that the SGPC concealed the original report written by Akal Takht appointed three-member panel headed by Telangana High Court advocate Ishar Singh and had uploaded another report pertaining to misappropriation of 328 ‘saroops’ on its website on October 6.He claimed that the original report carried Ishar Singh’s signatures on its each page whereas the secondary report, which contained 1,100 pages, had his signature only on its last page.Though the SGPC had banned protests in the holy complex, the protesters staged a sit-in at the Golden Plaza for four hours, raising slogans against SGPC president Gobind Singh Longowal and the Badal family.Jagjot Singh Khalsa, president of the religious wing of the Lok Insaaf Party, said his party extended support to Jathedar Ranjit Singh-led protest, seeking criminal proceedings against SGPC officials who were involved in misappropriation of the ‘saroops’.He said they were seeking account of those Sikh manuscripts also which were returned by the Army to the SGPC after the Operation Bluestar.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/missing-saroops-former-jathedar-ranjit-singh-leads-protest-outside-golden-temple-167567
