09-11-2020||Tarn Taran||Unite to oust SAD, says Ranjit Singh Brahampura||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/unite-to-oust-sad-says-ranjit-singh-brahampura-168297
09-11-2020||A DAY IN THE LIFE OF EMBROIDERY MACHINE MECHANIC||Nothing but hard work can weave him through this rough patch||PK JaiswarTribune News ServiceAmritsar, November 8Sunil Ansari, an embroidery machine mechanic, travels to different parts of the city daily to attend complaints for repairing units. He isn’t moving around alone — the thoughts of his family’s future accompany him, always.He has three daughters and a son. “Earlier, they used to study in private schools. But as they started for higher classes it became unaffordable to run family and continue studying in reputed private schools. Therefore, I shifted them to government schools for further studies,” he said. His eldest daughter is a Class XII student, while the youngest girl is in Class VI. The boy studies in Class XI. He has to shoulder their needs, apart from his elderly father’s well-being.Going by the current time, the shrinking of industries has definitely made it tough for many a worker. But he’s giving his all to smooth the road ahead for his four kids. Ansari starts his day at 8.30 am. He caters to around five embroidery workshops who summon him whenever their machines need repair. Forget the working hours, there is no such thing for him. “Sometimes I get call from all the units and I work till late in the night,” he said. It takes around three-four hours for repairing one. “Whatever I earn, all is spent on running daily expenses and children’s education. I have nothing in the name of savings,” he added.In order to provide some leverage to his income, he also procured a second hand embroidery machine and started his own small business near his place. Due to the lockdown, many industrial units had reduced their production in view of lesser demand and many were laid off. “It was people like me who were among those hit hard by this pandemic. Though slowly, but steadily the things are coming back to normalcy,” Ansari said.He was born here as his father had moved from Deoriya town located at the border of Uttar Pradesh and Bihar decades ago. The old man used to work at Dayalbagh Spinning and Weaving Mill in Putlighar area, closed down way back in 2003. Earlier, he started learning repairing machines after observing other mechanics. But later did a certificate course in the same. “I have to keep abreast with the advancements in the machines,” he told.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/nothing-but-hard-work-can-weave-him-through-this-rough-patch-168035
09-11-2020||---||First on-stage performance post Covid hiatus spirit up thespians||Amritsar, November 8After a hiatus of over seven months, theatre lovers were in for a treat, when ‘Love Guru’, a Punjabi adaptation of Anton Chekov’s ‘Seduction’, was staged at the Art Gallery here late on Saturday evening. With weekend theatre performances being a regular feature in the city, the last few months were equally tough for theatre lovers and artistes alike. Though many of them had been experimenting with online screening of plays, Love Guru’s performance was the first on-stage performance ever since the Covid-19 outbreak.The adaptation and direction by Gurinder Makna of SSAI Creations and performance in collaboration with Theatre-Wallahs, a local theatre group of amateur artistes (non-professionals), is as interesting as the story of its rehearsals.Makna said: “We delivered scripts at the homes of all artistes. They were asked to memorise their part. Then, we kept in touch with them over the phone to ensure better dialogue delivery.” He said the artistes later were asked to come one by one and perform. “It was only during the last week of rehearsals before the final performance, that all artistes were physically present in the theatre,” said Makna, adding that they also took permission from the district administration to hold a gathering of 30 persons.“It was an overwhelming experiencing watching a play being performed on stage. The adaption and presentation part touched me the most. We had been keeping ourselves entertained on internet but watching a play being enacted in front of you is a different experience altogether,” said Suvidha Duggal, a theatre and film artiste.“It has been a long time. I felt as if I was lying dormant. Theatre for me is not just entrainment, it is much more than that. Watching a play after more than seven months was satisfying. I hope things will improve further and we will have more such opportunities,” said Priyanka Gupta.The team behind the scintillating performance included Dr Arvinder Chamak, Anmol Gupta, Rhea Bhatia and Samya Gupta. The stage and backstage support included Rupinder Korpal, Nausheen, Sirjan, Karanbir Singh, Paramjit Kaur, Akanksha Khanna and Reena Kundra.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/first-on-stage-performance-post-covid-hiatus-spirit-up-thespians-168036
09-11-2020||---||Amritsar sees back-to-back seizures of firecrackers||Amritsar, November 8With Diwali just round the corner, the back-to-back seizures of illegally stashed firecrackers have seen a drastic rise. The district administration has allowed only those traders who have a valid licence for selling firecrackers at a designated spot in the New Amritsar area here. The recent seizures of illegal manufacturing and storing of firecrackers and explosive materials were made from the city as well as rural belt areas.In a recent seizure, crackers worth Rs 1.5 lakh were seized from Gulla, a resident of Lakha Singh Wala village. He was involved in illegal manufacturing and storing crackers in a rented shop at Bhinder. Besides, he was also indulging in selling synthetic Chinese kite string. The police also seized 320 big rolls and 950 small rolls of synthetic kite string from the spot.Acting on a tip-off, the Beas police raided the shop and residence of Harjasjit Singh of Beas. The raiding police party confiscated firecrackers worth Rs 1.25 lakh from there.While Harjasjit was nabbed by the police, Gulla managed to abscond. The police said raids were on to arrest him.Gaurav Toora, Superintendent of Police, Amritsar rural, said the police had adopted zero tolerance against those involved in storing crackers without fulfilling the requisite norms. This was not only illegal but also dangerous for life and property of others. He said raids would continue to nab those who were indulging in such illegal acts.Similarly, the city police seized around 3 kg of potash powder being used for manufacturing crackers from a residence in the Anngarh area infamous for bootlegging and illegal manufacturing of crackers.The police team also seized 100 iron shells, 14 anaars and thread from the spot. The police recovered 80 bottles of illicit liquor from the spot. The residence belonged to Mangal Singh, alias Manga, who is still absconding.Earlier too, a huge quantity of explosive material was seized from the area.Deputy Commissioner of Police Jagmohan Singh said the district administration had allotted slots for installing stalls to those who had a licence and the requisite permission. If other persons (those who have no licence) were found selling, manufacturing or storing firecrackers, strict action would be taken against them.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/amritsar-sees-back-to-back-seizures-of-firecrackers-168037
09-11-2020||---||Fire breaks out at Bhagtanwala dump yard||Amritsar, November 8A major fire broke out on the dump yard located at Bhagtanwala on Saturday evening. Irked residents cornered the Amritsar Municipal Corporation over the issue. The MC officials claimed that they had doused the flames with the help of eight fire engines.Dr Ajay Kanwar, Health Officer, MC, said, “It was a major fire. I reached the spot and called fire engines. We worked hard from more than four hours and doused the flames on late Saturday evening.”Residents suspected that the MC’s own staff or solid waste management company had been burning garbage instead of processing it.Sanjay Sharma, member, Sanjhi Sangharsh Committee, said, “It’s not for the first time when fire broke out at the dump yard. It is a regular affair. It happens due to negligence of the MC and solid waste management company’s staff. They should act as soon they come to know about fire. However, they act only when a major portion of the dump starts burning.”Dr Kanwar refuted the allegations and said, “It is a well- known fact that decades-old heaps produce methane gas. It often catches fire. We have designated staff to keep a check and they act immediately. Sometimes, flames get out of control or fire breaks out at multiple locations.”The MC officials claimed that bioremediation of garbage was going on in full swing. “It will take around two years to clean the entire dump yard. We have planted saplings to develop green belt on the land cleared of garbage. Residents should cooperate with us,” said civic body officials.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/fire-breaks-out-at-bhagtanwala-dump-yard-168038
09-11-2020||---||Body of Kapurthala man arrives from Dubai||Amritsar, November 8The body of a Kapurthala man, who died in Dubai, reached Sri Guru Ram Das Jee International Airport here on Sunday. The deceased, Sukhwinder Singh (45) of Dhaliwal Bet, had migrated to Dubai some years back dreaming of a good life.The body was brought with the efforts of a social organisation, Sarbat Da Bhala Trust, being run by SP Singh Oberoi. Sukhwinder suffered a heart attack and died on the intervening night of September 21 and 22.The family wanted to conduct his cremation at his native village and requested Sarbat Da Bhala Trust to airlift his body from Dubai.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/body-of-kapurthala-man-arrives-from-dubai-168040
09-11-2020||---||Traditional craft products take centre stage at expo||Amritsar, November 8Virsa Women Craft organised a two-day exhibition at Art Gallery. Products, including furniture, panja dari, bean bags, jewellery, handmade baskets, embroidered cushion covers, crochet and organic food were showcased at the expo. Project coordinator Varinder Pal Singh said the ‘Shramik Bharti’ (NGO) has been instrumental in implementing a holistic rural development project funded by HDFC bank’s CSR Department in 12 villages in Amritsar and Ferozepur districts.He said the NGO focuses on different areas, including infrastructure, natural resource management, livelihood, agriculture and education. He said four designers were hired to do scoping and identify skills among rural women. The designers started skill enhancement exercise and slowly product development started.The ‘manja’ weaving skills were contemporised into furniture, traditional of ‘azaarband’ or ‘naala’ were converted into jewellery pieces.Similalry, ‘panja dari’ has been revived with new designs, apart from crochet, embroidered work and kites.After two years of extensive skill and product development in 12 villages, around 200 women connected with Shramik Bharti who had been grouped into a firm called Virsa Women Craft.He said their aim was to ensure that women earn at least Rs 200 per day for 200 days per year and such exhibitions held in promoting the brand and give an opportunity to women to interact with masses. “The exhibition will give them hope and dedication to work for themselves,” he said and added that Virsa Women Craft would have all types of traditional products with changed narratives.Rakesh Pandey, CEO, Shramik Bharti, said, “Women empowerment is their main objective.” Amritsar Deputy Commissioner Gurpreet Singh Khaira, who visited the exhibition, spoke with craftswomen.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/traditional-craft-products-take-centre-stage-at-expo-168041
09-11-2020||Amritsar||PSPCL team assaulted, power meter snatched||A team of officials of PSPCL was manhandled by a couple and their unknown accomplices who also snatched a power meter from them here on Friday. The police have booked the suspects, identified as Kashmir Singh and his wife Sawinder Kaur and others. They were charged with assault, impeding a government servant from discharging his duties and theft.Junior engineer Rajesh Kumar told the police that he was posted at Gopal Nagar subdivision of Power Colony on the Majitha road. He said Sawinder Kaur gave an application for a new connection of electricity meter. He said on Friday when an employee reached her plot, he found that there was no boundary wall around the plot. Therefore, he suggested her to apply for a temporary connection for constructing the plot. He said the woman called her husband who reached there with several unidentified persons.The junior engineer said as he reached the spot, he was manhandled by the accused who forcibly took away the power meter. A case has been registered. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/pspcl-team-assaulted-power-meter-snatched-168042
09-11-2020||Amritsar||Two fall prey to contagion in Amritsar||Anti-employee policies flayedTarn Taran: The district unit of the Punjab Subordinate Services Federation (PSSF) at its district-level convention organised here on Sunday condemned the Union and state governments’ anti-employee policies. The convention was attended by employees, including women, of different departments of the state government. Baljinder Singh Doblian, district president of the PSSF, and Pargat Singh Jamarai of mass organisations were among others who addressed the convention. Policies like the privatisation of public sector organisations and retiring employees compulsorily were condemned. The speakers demanded the restoration of the old pension policy, implementation of the 7th Pay Commission recommendations and the dearness allowance instalments, ending the contractual system to fill vacant posts, etc. OCThree booked for illicit liquor tradeTarn Taran: The district police on Saturday booked three persons in different cases for indulging in illicit liquor trade. The police seized a working still and 15 kg of ‘lahan’ from the house of Jodha Singh of Jhamke Khurd, while 110 kg of ‘lahan’ was seized from the house of Sukhwinder Singh of Naushehra Pannuan. Similarly, the Sadar police seized 5,250 ml of Illicit liquor from the house of Paramjit Singh of Bhaini Sidhwan village. All three have been booked under Sections 61, 1 and 14 of the Excise Act. OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/two-fall-prey-to-contagion-in-amritsar-168043
09-11-2020||---||IIM invites applications for Executive MBA Programme||Amritsar, November 8Amritsar IIM has invited application for its two-year non-residential Executive MBA Programme. With its rigorous and cutting-edge curriculum, the programme intends to prepare working executives for advancing in their careers and transitioning smoothly into leadership roles.The classes would be delivered in a hybrid mode, i.e., online via video conferencing with an interactive learning management system coupled with two on-campus visits of five days per year. The programme will be for around 750 hours and cover rigorous courses in various functional domains and industry-relevant elective courses. The programme comes with one week of an international immersion programme to provide a holistic understanding of the global business environment. The participants of the programme will have regular interactions with industry experts and also get an opportunity to network with like-minded professionals, said Mukesh Jha, an official of IIM.The candidate must have a bachelor’s degree in any discipline and a minimum of three years of progressive work experience in a managerial/entrepreneurial/professional role as of May 2021 post-completing their graduation.Candidates can apply online with a valid CAT/GMAT/GRE/GATE/IAAT score or apply for IIM Amritsar Admission Test (IAAT). Shortlisted candidates would then be further called upon for personal interviews. The application deadline is January 31, 2021.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/iim-invites-applications-for-executive-mba-programme-168044
09-11-2020||---||10 cell phones seized from Amritsar Central Jail||Amritsar, November 8The prison authorities seized 10 mobile phones from the Amritsar Central Jail in the last two days. The recovery of mobile phones has left law enforcing agencies baffled. Three separate FIRs had been registered at Islamabad police station in this connection.According to information, three mobile phones and two packets of cigarettes were found between watch tower number 1 and 2 and near tower number 10 and 11, respectively. Similarly, five mobile phones were found from the premises of de-addiction centre inside the jail.Assistant Superintendent Jail Sukhdev Singh said during inspection of a bathroom in the de-addiction centre, they found three mobile phones hidden on the backside of urinals while two phones were hidden in grass. Another mobile phone was found near isolation cells.Ravail Singh, Assistant Superintendent Jail, said mobiles phones were concealed in sand and other part of the jail complex. Mobiles, which were found near the watch towers, were apparently thrown from outside.Recently, the police had apprehended jail staff for sneaking in prohibited material. The police said the seized mobile phones would be sent for forensic examination. They said three separate cases under the Prisons Act had been registered.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/10-cell-phones-seized-from-amritsar-central-jail-168048
09-11-2020||Open House||Total ban on fireworks a must, follow it up with a vigilant eye||Boards showing AQI across city neededPeople must be made aware about the rules and regulations pertaining to air pollution and motivated to follow them. Traffic police should be stricter and ensure that every vehicle has a pollution certificate. The centres designated to issue these should hand over certificate only after proper verification with their tools. People must use BRTS whenever possible as it uses electrical buses which generate less pollution as compared to their counterparts. Only 'green firecrackers' should be allowed for sale during Diwali. Farmers must be incentivised to shun stubble burning and use other methods to manage crop residue. There should be boards across the city showing the current AQI so that people adhere to rules strictly.Jatinderpal SinghBook those violating the normsBeing an intangible or invisible problem, the concept of air pollution is still a quite new thing for the majority. Scores of people die every year due to poor air quality. Large-scale campaigns and programmes should be initiated to educate the people about air pollution and its consequent health hazards. Use of public transport and bicycles, car pooling by neighbours and colleagues, combining errands and reducing trips and walking for short distances can help curtail the pollution. Setting the heaps of garbage and trash on fire must be checked on. Use of CNG as fuel by buses and trucks must be mandatory. Use of fireworks in festivals and weddings and stubble burning should be banned. The government must form guidelines and bring people to book violating those norms. Public should also resort to clean environment practices. Air pollution is emerging as a massive challenge and taking serious measures is the need of the hour. Government must cut the Gordian knot as air pollution is not a miniscule hurdle.Anil SharmaNeed to pave way for better tomorrowOf late, government and people have got awakened to the perennial problem of environmental pollution - particularly air pollution has assumed alarming proportions and is threatening the very life, existence and safety of people in general. Paradoxically, it is we who need the healthy air most and are wantonly destroying its sanctity and purity. Toxic air makes all and sundry cough causing throat irritation and spreading viral infections. The condition becomes worse for those suffering from asthma and cardiovascular diseases. Festivals are celebrated with great pomp and show and all the while air pollution rises to dangerous levels as we brazenly add a lot of waste and leave no stone unturned to contribute immensely. That is why the WHO has categorised air pollution as the sixth biggest cause of deaths in India. So, to keep the pollution levels in check during the upcoming Diwali, wood or trash should not be burnt altogether. Stubble burning must be stopped. The Resident Welfare Associations can spearhead and decide a common place where its residents can assemble at a pre-decided time to enjoy the festivities instead of celebrating separately at their homes. National, state and local efforts to clean up sources of pollution should be supported wholeheartedly. The amount of waste generated during the festivals should be drastically cut down. 'Waste not, want not' is the maxim to live by. Also, plastic in any form must be avoided and recycling should be adopted. Earthen lamps should not be thrown away after one time use. Disposables should be given a go by. To beat the blues of polluted air, jaggery, fruits rich in vitamin C and herbal, ginger and tulsi tea should be consumed. Exercising near high traffic areas should be avoided. The concerted, strenuous and collective efforts of the general public may pave the way for better tomorrow. Though the government is quite serious in protecting the environment, it is people like us responsible for poisoning the biosphere. Unless we ourselves understand and take the mantle to protect the environment from pollution, no one can save us from its perilous consequences.Tarsem S BumrahRefrain from stubble burning this yearThe air quality index (AQI) of Punjab is in worst condition. The farmers need to understand this but they burn the stubble of harvested crop without any fear. When you go outside in the evening you can feel your eyes burning, you can’t breathe properly due to stubble burning. After a few days, it is Diwali and it's also quite obvious that people will burn firecrackers. Lot of celebrities urge the people on social media, radio and television not to and should go for green Diwali but people do not pay heed to this, they will do whatever as they please. And this causes a massive problem. In such a situation, we all need to be very cautious about the environment. We should do the right things to save it, otherwise our future generations will be in trouble.Saahil HansMaintain distance from firecrackersI would suggest people not to burst firecrackers this festive season as its smoke affects our respiratory system. We will all be more prone to catching the virus and it will affect strongly affect the breathing then. So, the best prevention is to distance from crackers. People should avoid smoking as well.Amritjot KaurA vigilant eye needed to check pollutionI feel if we really want to curb air pollution, we must slap a stringent ban on the sale of firecrackers. This will be the first and most vital step to help ourselves. The concerned authorities should also set high penalties against anyone indulged in sale of firecrackers. There should be a sincere and rigorous check on all markets, including in the rural areas. For rural parts, awareness on pollution in reference to coronavirus should also be made among the villagers through village panchayats or even via Gurdwara loudspeakers. This will also discourage its buying. Let's not forget that besides air pollution, firecrackers will also cause huge noise pollution, which will be not only harmful for us but also for birds and animals.Rameshinder Singh SandhuImpose strict ban on sale of firecrackersAir pollution levels in the region have already crossed the danger mark due to increased number of stubble burning cases. Only in Punjab, from 21st September to 1st November this year, the state witnessed 33,165 cases -- this figure was 24,722 in 2018. Just imagine the increase in level of air pollution due to this. But there is major difference between air pollution caused by stubble burning and fireworks during the festival season. Farmers do burn paddy straw as they don't have financial resources to spend on bailing/stacking of paddy residue. On the other hand, the pollution caused by crackers is just for pleasure, which could be easily controlled. Central and state governments should take long term and short term measures to control it. Why don't political parties make it a part of their election manifesto as it hazardous to the public health? From manufacturing to trading of all sorts, fireworks should be permanently banned. But, as a short term solution the State should ban sale/purchase of such items during the ongoing festival season.Harsh N JoharQUESTIONThe non-resumption of goods trains may cause power crisis in the state and problems for the industry. Do you think the situation is the outcome of dirty state vsCentre politics?Suggestions in not more than200 words can be sent to amritsardesk@tribunemail.com by Thursday (November 12).||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/total-ban-on-fireworks-a-must-follow-it-up-with-a-vigilant-eye-168049
