12-11-2020||Tribune Web DeskChandigarh||Kapil Sharma enjoys 'paranthas' with Navjot Singh Sidhu in Amritsar; fans miss 'Paaji' on 'The Kapil Sharma Show'||Tv host Kapil Sharma is on a trip to Punjab. The actor-comedian recently met former cricketer and politician Navjot Singh Sidhu.The two have worked together on the popular Tv show, 'The Kapil Sharma Show'.Taking to his Instagram account, Kapil shared pictures of enjoying 'paranthas' with Sidhu.“Meeting @navjotsinghsidhu paji n eating #pranthas after a long time #amritsar #punjab #punjabi #goodtimes #brothers #foodie thank you for all your love n extra large meals paji ” the comedian captioned the photos.Meeting @navjotsinghsidhu paji n eating #pranthas after a long time 🤗 #amritsar #punjab #punjabi #goodtimes #brothers #foodie thank you for all your love n extra large meals paji 🤗🙏A post shared by  Kapil Sharma (@kapilsharma) on Nov 11, 2020 at 5:53am PST  Soon after this, Sidhu also posted pictures from his meeting with Kapil, and said: “Kapil the genius comes calling with dear friends Deepak, Rishi and Gurjot…”@kapilsharma "The Genius" comes home with dear friends Deepak, Rishi & Gurjot ...A post shared by  Navjot Singh Sidhu (@navjotsinghsidhu) on Nov 11, 2020 at 9:31pm PST  Kapil the genius comes calling with dear friends Deepak, Rishi and Gurjot...A post shared by  Navjot Singh Sidhu (@navjotsinghsidhu) on Nov 11, 2020 at 12:22am PST  Reactions: One user wrote: "Paa ji come back to TKSS we miss u in the kapil Sharma show", another wrote: "Paaji aa jao show pe Bda miss karte hain apko", another said: "Very nice pics paaji"Ever since the pictures surfaced online, fans of 'The Kapil Sharma Show' have been speculating the return of the former cricketer on the show. Sidhu was asked to leave the show following his comments on the Pulwama terror attack in 2019.Archana Puran Singh replaced him and continues to be a part of the show.On Tuesday, Kapil also shared pictures from his visit to the Golden Temple in Amritsar. In the picture, he was seen seeking the blessings of the almighty.ਤੁਮੑ ਕਰਹੁ ਦਇਆ ਮੇਰੇ ਸਾਈਂ ,ਐਸੀ ਮਤਿ ਦੀਜੈ ਮੇਰੇ ਠਾਕੁਰ ,ਸਦਾ ਸਦਾ ਤੁਧੁ ਧਿਆਈ 🙏 #blessingsA post shared by  Kapil Sharma (@kapilsharma) on Nov 9, 2020 at 4:41pm PST||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/kapil-sharma-enjoys-paranthas-with-navjot-singh-sidhu-in-amritsar-fans-miss-paaji-on-the-kapil-sharma-show-169690
12-11-2020||---||BJP celebrates Bihar win||Pathankot, November 11Punjab BJP chief and ex-MLA Ashwani Sharma distributed sweets to celebrate the NDA’s victory in the Bihar elections and claimed that the “forward looking policies of Chief Minister Nitish Kumar initiated in the last 15 years had brought about a progressive change in the state.”Pathankot is a traders’ city and a known BJP hub. Even during the recent Punjab bandh to protest the farm laws shopkeepers kept their establishments open. The adjoining assembly seat of Sujanpur, too, is a BJP stronghold.Sharma, who has remained ensconced in his house ever since his car was damaged by protesting farmers at a toll plaza on the Mukerian-Pathankot road recently, today came out and exhorted party workers to come out on the streets to celebrate the landmark victory. He was accompanied by senior leaders, including ex-Mayor Anil Vasudeva.“The party workers knew that the exit polls were fabricated by vested interests and hence gave a wrong picture. The BJP actually put up a winning performance which ultimately led to the NDA forming the government with an absolute majority. In Indian politics there have been few CMs whom the people have trusted for four successive terms,” said Sharma.He said he would start touring the state, particularly the rural areas, from next week to inform the people about the benefits of the farm laws.“See what happened in Bihar. The people gave a thumbs-up to the farm laws in the state. The schemes being propagated by the Union Government are all welfare schemes which are bound to help the poor and needy. In Bihar itself, women and the youth voted for the BJP because of certain schemes which were meant for these sections of society,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/bjp-celebrates-bihar-win-169611
12-11-2020||Gurdaspur||GES holds blood donation camp||The Covid crisis has brought in its wake a rather unexpected predicament with civil hospitals of this district reporting that fewer and fewer people are coming forward to donate blood following which a scarcity has occurred. To tide over the emergency, the Gurdaspur Education Society (GES), which runs several educational institutions in the city, decided to hold a series of blood donation camps. Civil Hospital doctors were too willing to extend a helping hand in this initiative. Doctors claim that if the Covid fear persists there are chances that there may be an acute shortage of blood in the next several months. Deputy Commissioner Mohammad Ishfaq, who was the chief guest, claimed that such ventures held by private entities in collaboration with government hospitals have the potential to do away with the paucity of the life saving fluid. SSP Dr Rajinder Singh Sohal requested NGOs and social organisations spread across the length and breadth of the district to organise such camps. The SSP said his department would organise such a drive next week where all policemen would be asked to donate blood. More than a 100 persons donated blood today at the camp, which was held at Gurdaspur Public School. Doctors of the Civil Hospital led by Dr Pooja, in charge of the blood bank, made the arrangements.  “The impact of blood availability due to reduced blood donations means a lot many problems may arise for patients opting for surgeries and accident victims. In many states there is a mounting concern around blood shortage. Gurdaspur Civil Hospital doctors have made it clear that blood donations have dramatically reduced due to the fear of contracting the virus through such drives,” said president of the society Raman Bahl. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/ges-holds-blood-donation-camp-169612
12-11-2020||---||NGO donates safety kits||Amritsar, November 11The non-governmental organisation ‘Phulkari CAN’, a philanthropic wing of Phulkari- Women of Amritsar, donated PPE kits and reusable masks to Amritsar Deputy Commissioner Gurpreet Singh Khera for distribution among health workers.To ensure that health workers have a safe Diwali in the wake of the second wave of the virus, Nidhi Sindhwani, chief, Phulkari CAN, said, “We owe 2020 to our health workers who had been risking their lives to ensure our safety. We salute their spirit and say thank you to them with this gift.”Deepa Swani, president, Phulkari WOA, too, spoke about how Diwali would find its true meaning. “We are trying to support our community in these difficult times. We stand with the district authorities to help in whatever way we can to overcome this situation.” The donations made were a part of ‘Help the Helpless’ campaign, which was launched by Phulkari CAN during the lockdown.This drive was launched to provide relief to the needy impacted by the lockdown and to help the authorities in providing necessary equipment to vulnerable to battle the pandemic.Phulkari CAN has worked hand-in-hand with the government to provide relief and ration to migrants and poor families, distribute PPE gear, sanitisation kits, face shields and masks to healthcare workers and also took care of animals starving during the lockdown.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/ngo-donates-safety-kits-169613
12-11-2020||Manmeet Gill||Tough time ahead for patients as winter knocks at the door||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, November 11Even as the temperature, especially during the night has started dipping substantially, a visit to Guru Nanak Dev Hospital associated with the Government Medical College revealed that windowpanes were broken and the hospital management has yet not woken up from its deep slumber. As a result, patients in the wards could be seen using blankets, bedsheets and even newspapers to cover broken windows to keep the cold at bay.As temperature would fall further in coming weeks, these makeshift arrangements would certainly fail to provide relief and patients along with their attendants would be forced to bear the onslaught of cold weather.An attendant of a patient said temperature during the daytime has not decreased much, but they had to take extra care during night to stay warm. “As windowpanes are broken, cold air gushes in during night,” he said.The patients said the hospital management should get the broken windowpanes replaced at the earliest.The hospital is often visited by poor people from nearby districts who sometimes do not have a relative in the city to provide them warm clothing or blankets. “In the absence of windowpanes, sleeping at the wards is akin to spend a night in the open,” said patients.They said in the wake of problems being faced by them, the hospital management should get all broken windowpanes repaired before the onset of winter. They said carrying two-three quilts for one person was not possible.Awareness on non-communicable diseases||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/tough-time-ahead-for-patients-as-winter-knocks-at-the-door-169614
12-11-2020||Neeraj Bagga||Getting online appointment for driving test ‘a hard task’||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, November 11Those looking to obtain driving licence were left in the lurch as they were not getting online appointments to undergo driving tests.Harassed applicants on condition of anonymity said their documents were already with the department concerned as they had procured learner’s licence.They added that there was no hassle in securing a learner’s licence, but it’s valid only for six months. A month after getting the learner’s licence one can secure the general driving licence and it’s valid till the expiry of learner’s licence.A learner’s licence holder has to log on to www.parivahan.gov.in to upload his/her licence, form number one, Aadhaar card, self declaration, online fee deduction and then appointment is given for the driving test. An applicant waiting outside the test driving track said his learner’s licence expired two months ago. “Despite repeated attempts, I failed to secure online appointment.”An official said online registration opens at 9 am and ends up at 12 pm. Novice people take a lot of time to fill forms and agents involved in the profession exhaust the entire limit of applicants in a few minutes.Regional Transport Officer Jyoti Bala said there was no laxity on the part of the department and 46 applicants were daily granted online appointments to undergo driving tests. She said the number of applicants invariably remains the same.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/getting-online-appointment-for-driving-test-a-hard-task-169615
12-11-2020||Charanjit Singh Teja||Street vending zones, ‘smart’ markets still a dream in Amritsar||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, November 11Despite tall claims, the Amritsar Municipal Corporation has failed to implement street vending zone project. Not a single ‘smart’ market has been established to date by the civic body. The MC had sent a proposal of 37 sites to the state government for approval, which was still pending due to objections raised by the Local Bodies Department.Last year, the Estate wing of the MC had prepared a plan of 42 street vending zones in the city under the Street Vending Plan. It was sent for approval, but the Local Bodies Department didn’t allow to establish zones under the flyovers and elevated roads.Jaswinder Singh, In-charge, Street Vending Zone project, said, “ We have removed five spots from the list of 42 vending zones after the objections and sent a plan of 37 vending zones in February. Due to the Covid-19 outbreak, there is no development in this regard. Now, the department has again raised some objections. We will visit Chandigarh to get the objections removed.”On January 24, 2019 Mayor Karamjit Singh Rintu and the then MC Commissioner, Sonali Giri, had inaugurated the street vending project near bus stand. However, some Congress councillors raised opposition and the project could not be implemented.The MC had hired a company in 2016 for the project, which conducted a survey in 2016-17 and found that there were 16,253 vendors in the city. The firm had collected data of vendors and prepared smart cards for them. Initially, a total of 42 locations were identified to establish smart markets by the MC.Recently, the Centre launched the PM Street Vendors Atmanirbhar Nidhi (PM SVANidhi) scheme to provide Rs 10,000 to street vendors as initial working capital to revive their businesses, which suffered a setback during the lockdown imposed in the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic. Jaswinder claimed the street vending project would be implemented soon as it’s the need of the hour. The MC has registered more vendors to provide them aid.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/street-vending-zones-smart-markets-still-a-dream-in-amritsar-169616
12-11-2020||Neeraj Bagga||Khadoniyan Wala bazaar basks in old glory as Diwali inches closer||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, November 11Khadoniyan Wala bazaar has come into its pristine glory as an array of terracotta items like idols of gods, goddesses and lamps associated with the Puja of Diwali have been put on sale and customers making a beeline for the items.The centuries old market, situated in a narrow maze of roads inside the walled city, has been revived with customers from all sections of society thronging to secure the articles, including toys. “Otherwise, in the digital age, people do not have time to behold these ancient artworks, said Pardeep Kumar, a trader.The tradition revived the historic Khadoniyan Wala bazaar, once known as the evergreen market for idols of gods, goddesses and toys made of terracotta, figurines and earthen lamps across the year. The marketplace again donned the old look as the ‘festival of lights’ inches closer. The idols of Lord Ganesha, Lakshmi, and a variety of diyas abounding are the tell-tale signs. The earthen lamps are locally made and the rest of the items arrive from Kolkata, Lucknow and Agra. These items are known for their beautiful and chiselled look.Harish, another trader, told: “Puja at the night of Diwali is considered complete with Chandol, which has four spaces to place Parshad, Diwalia (a lamp with eight wicks), Pari Mata which has two wicks, elephant and a horse.” According to him, outcome of a changed lifestyle is the reason why people come to buy only two to three days prior.However, the pandemic-stricken times have had a significant impact. Now, not more than six shops are engaged in selling terracotta items, while many sell other items like FMCG products, cold drinks, confectionery, tailoring. A limited number of families made idols and diyas these days as the demand waned. Feeling the pulse of the changing trend, a majority of houses involved in the trade had shifted to other vocations to earn a living.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/khadoniyan-wala-bazaar-basks-in-old-glory-as-diwali-inches-closer-169617
12-11-2020||Our Correspondent ||1.5L ml of Illicit liquor, 8900-litre lahan seized in Harike||Tarn Taran, November 11A joint team of the Excise Department and police conducted raids in the Mand area near Harike village on Wednesday and seized 8,900 litres of lahan with other material. Navjot Bharti, Excise Officer (EO), said the Mand area had been considered a hotbed  for making illicit liquor and the department had been conducting frequent raids with the help of drone fitted cameras for the operation. He said today the raids were conducted with the help of excise officials from Ferozepur and the district police were led by DSP (Operation) Iqbal Singh. Amanbir Singh, Excise Taxation Inspector (ETI), Patti and Jatinder Singh, ETI, TarnTaran led the teams to conduct raids at different places. Navjot Bharti said the searching teams seized 6,900 litre of lahan, 1,50,000 ml of illicit liquor, two iron drums, one patila silver and one tirpal. On Tuesday, a team of the Harike police and Excise Department conducted raids in the Mand area, near Harike, seized 2,000 litre of lahan and arrested Kaptain Singh of Harike. Cases under Sections 61, 1, and 14 of the Excise Act and Section 24 of the Water Prevention and Pollution Control Act were registered against three persons, including Kaptain Singh.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/1-5l-ml-of-illicit-liquor-8900-litre-lahan-seized-in-harike-169619
12-11-2020||The self-help groups formed in the district under the “Punjab State Rural Livelihood Mission” (PSRLM) were serving a multiple task for the society. The groups were not only helping the weaker section women folk to be self-sufficient but the members work to aware the society about development schemes of the government and also work to aware society against social evils too. Deputy Commissioner Kulwant Singh said that 1620 self-help groups had been formed in the district and women from the below poverty line (BPL) section were the members of the groups. As many as 17||Self-help groups serving rural masses||An unforgettable retirement partyIt was a unique farewell function on the retirement of Ashwani Kumar Sharma, senior assistant, District Education Office, Tarn Taran. He was superannuated at the age of 58 after 36 years of service in the Education Department. Besides his colleagues, staff members of the DEO offices (Elementary and Secondary), the function was attended by Dr Dharambeer Agnihotri, MLA, Tarn Taran. Eminent personalities of the area too were present on the occasion. Dr Agnihotri reached the venue before start of the function. District Education Officer (Elementary) Varinder Kumar Parashar, District Education Officer (E) Amritsar Kanwaljit Singh, Deputy DEO (E) Paramjit Singh, Deputy DEO (Secondary) Harpal Singh Sandhawalia, Ashwani Kumar Amritsar (not the retiree), BEEP’s Anuroop Bedi, Veer Jit Pal Kaur, Adesh Singh, Tarsem Singh were among the others who addressed the gathering. Dr Agnihotri too addressed the gathering at the end. In their respective addresses all speakers appreciated the working of Ashwani Kumar Sharma and wished for his happy retirement life. “The reason behind the good health of Ashwani Kumar is that he does not know cycling and always prefer to be on foot for miles in a day. Moreover he is a teetotaller and takes simple food too”, said Dr Agnihotri.An Education officer with many tastesHarpal Singh Sandhawalia (pic), Deputy District Education Officer (Secondary), Tarn Taran, is a man of many tastes. He is working as an education officer but has a very sweet and sensitive heart which creates poetry full of emotions and romance. His first book on poetry ‘Ehnu Hun Ki Kahie’ (what to say him now?) has reached in the market recently. He is a football player. With the help of villagers, he has formed a football club in his native village Vein Poin (Tarn Taran). The club has been organising football tournament every year for more than 20 years. He has researched the historic background of many villages in his articles published on Fatehbad, Goindwal Sahib, Khadoor Sahib, Vairowal, Nagoke, Naushehra Pannuan and Vain Poin villages. Articles on these villages have been published in the newspapers and magazines especially in Punjabi Tribune. He has also written articles on sports and the state-level activities. He loves to read popular authors like Shakespeare, Sahadat Hasan Manto and Leo Tolstoy. He says that his book ‘Ehnu Hun Ki Kahie’ is about human relations. Man lives in a jungle of men but is so alone. Behaviour of a man with others depends on size of their houses. “Man dies but arrogance does not”, explains Harpal in his poetry book.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/self-help-groups-serving-rural-masses-169620
12-11-2020||Tarn Taran||Man killed over property dispute||DC launches plantation driveTarn Taran: Followers of the Kar Sewa sect Khadoor Sahib planted 180 saplings of different species at the District Administrative Complex here on Wednesday. Bhai Davinder Singh, follower of the sect, said that the plantation drive was inaugurated by Deputy Commissioner Kulwant Singh. He said that the planted species were Gulmohar, Jacaranda, Mahogany, Chakrasia and Kachnar . The sect, under the leadership of Padma Shri Baba Sewa Singh, head of the Kar Sewa sect, had planted more than five lakh trees in five states of the country during the past 20 years. oc26 test positive for Covid in distAmritsar: The district reported 26 new Covid-19 cases on Wednesday, taking the infection count to 12,142, while no death due to the disease was reported on Wednesday. The district has reported a total of 470 deaths till date. The new cases include 20 influenza-like illness cases and six contacts of positive patients. Meanwhile, with recovery of 18 patients, the total recovery count has increased to 11,368. The district at present has a total of 304 active cases. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/man-killed-over-property-dispute-169622
12-11-2020||The growing need to push the research and development sector post-pandemic in the country and the future driven goals of Artificial Intelligence (AI)||'Future is technology-driven, need to push AI-based development in Punjab'||What is the scope of the MoU signed with regards to development of artificial intelligence based technology?The MoU aims to create momentum in artificial intelligence, machine learning and other advanced technologies in the Punjab. The Sabudh Foundation’s regional office in Mohali will aid in training students in these advanced technologies and impart special lectures, create a project bank for students, with the goal of enhancing their skills and employability. The Sabudh Data Science for Social Good Centre will be established in ACE, to bring the best academic and industry content for educating local talent, to conduct workshops and training courses for students and academics.How do you see AI as an aide in socio-economical development of the state?Post-pandemic, we have learnt the impact and efficiency of technology, with everything shifting to digital mode. AI is the future and its scope is expansive. Our aim is to create manpower for future, to ideate projects of social impact with government agencies and civil society, to develop apps for data collection to allow the development of social impact solutions and support social entrepreneurship amongst students. All this has the potential of addressing social problems in the region as well. The Sabudh Foundation is collaborating with PEC, Chandigarh, GEC, Ludhiana and ACE, Amritsar, to create regional centres of research development.How has the pandemic changed the academic structure of technical education institute like yours?There has been an instrumental change and I must say for better. Though many may opine that advanced technical education majorly dependent on practical learning might have found it difficult to transit from conventional to digital mode, it has improved the learning methodology and way of functioning. Apart from regular online classes, we have been conducting live demonstrations and workshops for practical training to our students. We have been using PP presentations, other audio-visual aids for more clarity in our classes. Our attendance through online mode has been about 80 per cent throughout. We also developed in-house system for conducting 100 per cent online examinations, which was a success. We have about 350 foreign students from countries like Thailand, Afghanistan, Nepal, Sudan, Indonesia, etc, who have all been attending online classes.When do you plan to reopen for students?We will reopen from November 17 onwards and any student willing to come to college is welcome. We have all the safety measures in place and ensure that new social distancing protocol is put in place. We also plan to reopen hostel for students from first week of December after consulting them. In the meantime, we will continue with offline and online mode of classes.In context of higher technical education post-pandemic, what courses are under spotlight?Everyone after the pandemic is quite cautious now, about their self and the world around them. There will be a lot of focus on research-based courses, especially in the field of science and technology since we know how technology-driven we have become. Courses that engage students in healthcare technology, biotechnology and innovation will take center stage. We have already been running courses in B Pharma, D Pharma, B Tech in computer-based science and application development that bring together medicine and engineering.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/future-is-technology-driven-need-to-push-ai-based-development-in-punjab-169625
12-11-2020||---||Dhadi groups spar over performance time at Akal Takht||Amritsar, November 11The traditional ‘diwan’ at the Akal Takht has been disrupted following a conflict between two factions — Sri Guru Hargobind Sahib Shiromani Dhadi Sabha and Miri Piri Shiromani Dhadi Sabha — over the performance hours allotted to them.Dhadis (balladeers) are traditional performers who sing ballads with a ‘sarangi’, a string instrument, and a ‘dhad’, a small drum. The tradition was started by sixth Sikh master Guru Hargobind Sahib at the Akal Takht.As the dhadis earn their income from donations by pilgrims, both groups want to perform for the maximum time. Gurmej Singh BA from the Miri Piri group alleged violating the Akal Takht’s ‘maryada’ (tenets), the diwan was interrupted midway by the other group on September 22.“Since then, except for a few sessions held by the SGPC’s dhadi jathas, the diwan has been suspended. We have approached the Akal Takht secretariat and SGPC against it, but in vain,” he said. He alleged a secretary-level official of the SGPC was favouring the opposite group and created a rift.In defence, Baldev Singh MA from Sri Guru Hargobind Singh dhadi group said it was Akal Takht’s decision to allow only those dhadis to perform who qualify the ‘test’. “Unlike the Miri Piri group, we were prepared to undergo the test. The Miri Piri group has a few number of qualified dhadis, whereas the ones under us are certified,” he said.SGPC’s Dharam Parchar Committee official Ajaib Singh Abhiyasi said it was misinformation that the ‘diwan’ was not being held at the Akal Takht. “Following the feud between the groups, the diwan is being organised by SGPC’s dhadi jathas,” he said.The test of the dhadis could not be conducted due to lockdown, he added, saying the new dates of the test would be announced post Diwali, probably on November 18-19.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/dhadi-groups-spar-over-performance-time-at-akal-takht-169368
12-11-2020||---||Lawyers, Punbus staff extend support to farmers' stir||Amritsar, November 11Farmers, who are protesting the Central farm laws, on Wednesday started off their campaign to observe ‘black Diwali’ by erecting black flags, pasting posters on buses and appealing to all to support their cause.Under the banner of Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Committee, Punjab, the agitating farmers reached the Inter-State Bus Terminus, Amritsar, and roped in Punbus staff members in their protest.The committee’s general secretary Sarwan Singh Pandher said besides putting up black flags on buses, they also held a meeting with lawyers who showed solidarity with farmers. The lawyers have installed black flags on their chambers in the Amritsar court complex.“We have kicked off our ‘black Diwali’ campaign from Amritsar and it will be observed across Punjab. The farmers’ protest will be transformed into a Punjabi protest. As the farm laws would affect every sector and household, we appeal to all to support us and observe black Diwali. The residents should put up black flags atop their houses and shops,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/lawyers-punbus-staff-extend-support-to-farmers-stir-169400
