16-11-2020||GS Paul||SGPC turns 100, still stuck in tangles||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, November 15The SGPC today completed 100 years of its existence. To commemorate the occasion, an “akhand path” was initiated at the Akal Takht. Besides religious, administrative issues loom large over the Sikh body. At present, the Shiromani Akali Dal, with a majority of members, holds dominance over it.Unending disputesIts unending disputes include the Nanakshahi Calendar row, and the appointment and rights of Jathedars of the Akal Takht.Recently, the SGPC drew flak over 328 missing Guru Granth Sahib “saroops” that were allegedly misappropriated by staff and officials of its publication branch.SGPC president Gobind Singh Longowal said efforts were being made to trace the missing “saroops”. “We have taken prompt action and removed the officials or staff members. The existing SGPC executive, including me, submitted an apology voluntarily to the Akal Takht and faced punishment,” he said.Constituted on November 15, 1920, the SGPC was born out of Gurdwara Reform Movement against the mahant and priests to liberate prominent gurdwaras, including the Golden Temple, from their control.The last SGPC polls were held on September 18, 2011. Lately, the appointment of Justice SS Saron (retd) as the Chief Commissioner, Gurdwara elections, has paved the way for holding fresh SGPC polls.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/sgpc-turns-100-still-stuck-in-tangles-171031
16-11-2020||---||Agriculture laws resonate in Akal Takht message on ‘Bandi Chhor Divas’||Amritsar, November 15The agrarian crisis, caused by the newly enacted farm laws, was raised from the podium of Akal Takht during the “Bandi Chhor Divas” (Diwali) on November 14.Meanwhile, the Golden Temple complex was illuminated with LED lights and thousands of devotees flocked to the temple. The traditional fireworks display was a spectacular event. As the tradition goes, the Nihang Singh organisations presented the stunts on horses at Ranjit Avenue ground today.“Bandi Chhor Divas” (prisoner release day) is celebrated to mark the historical release of the sixth Sikh guru, Guru Hargobind, from the Mughal prison along with 52 kings in the early 17th century.In his customary “sandesh” (message), Akal Takht officiating Jathedar Giani Harpreet Singh said “black laws” were being enforced upon the common citizens and its opposition would be dealt with sternly by the governments(both Centre and state).“Around three centuries ago, Baba Banda Singh Bahadur had granted land ownership rights to farmers, but in present times, the same peasant class is fighting for their inherited rights. The entire Khalsa Panth should shield farmers, labourers and every deprived section of society to justify the Sikh philosophy in its true letter and spirit,” he said.SGPC president Gobind Singh Longowal condemned the Centre for imposing the ‘black laws’. He said it was against the Guru’s principle of “kirt”.Meanwhile, the ‘parallel’ acting Jathedar of Akal Takht, Dhyan Singh Mand, and his supporters were not allowed to enter the Golden Temple. Jarnail Singh Sakhira, an organiser, said the police didn’t allow them in, so the ‘message’ was read outside the shrine.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/agriculture-laws-resonate-in-akal-takht-message-on-bandi-chhor-divas-171034
16-11-2020||Charanjit Singh Teja||Preachers put faith in virtual reality||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, November 15Though religious and social gatherings have not resumed even after the lockdown ended, religious preachers and activists have resorted to online platforms to keep in touch with their audience. A large number of religious preachers and activists, who generally attend religious functions in towns and villages, have now initiated their own YouTube channels and Facebook pages.Preachers in the city said even though the government ended restrictions on gathering at public places; organisers have been avoiding arranging the functions. During the past one month, two gurpurbs were celebrated and the 551th birth anniversary of Guru Nanak Dev is round the corner but the gurdwaras and religious organisations did not arrange major functions.Sarabjit Singh Dhotian, preacher of the Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee, said: “Our routine meetings keep taking place but we do not organise any major meeting. We used to visit other states for preaching on the occasions of Gurpurb. This year, I did not get even a single invitation from Delhi or any other state.”Dhotian stated that preachers and activists have not been sitting idle. They have been shifted to the social media. “I have my own YouTube channel since 2012. Initially, I uploaded some of the interpretations of Gurbani and the Sikh history. Later, several TV channels began telecasting preaching sessions. After a long gap, I have again started using the social media to keep in touch with our regular listeners. I got good response all over.”Kuldeep Singh, a religious activist, said, “The religious functions have not resumed yet. We are getting invitations for lectures. I have activated my Facebook page and also joined a private channel. Online preaching sessions are now the new normal for our profession. The private channel is also paying me for the interpretation of Gurbani.”With the suspension of religious functions, a number of preachers and clergy face financial problems too. They are waiting for the situation to get back to normal in order to revive the business.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/preachers-put-faith-in-virtual-reality-170932
16-11-2020||---||Diwali night keeps fire officials on toes||Amritsar, November 15Diwali celebrations turned sour for a few residents as 14 fire incidents were reported on November 14. As per the Fire Brigade Department, 14 fire-related calls were received. Of these, three were major fire incidents, in which goods worth lakhs were reduced to ashes.A major fire broke out in a godown near Husainpura Chowk. The fire officials claimed that more than 70 fire tenders were used to douse the flames. “Fire is under control, but firefighters are still dousing flames. The industrial godown is located behind a post office in Husainpura.Assistant Divisional Fire Officer Lovepreet Singh said: “The narrow streets and unplanned development inconvenienced firefighters. Fire tenders failed to reach the godown. We made an alternative arrangement to bring fire under control.”Similarly, a shop was gutted near the Civil Hospital. The firefighters refilled 10 fire tenders to douse the flames. The fire officials received a call from Amarkot village where fire was reported from a dera. Stubble stored for fodder was reduced to ashes at dera Gujjar.The Assistant Divisional Fire Officer said they received first call of fire incident on 8.35 pm, in which fire broke out in Preet Vihar. It was a minor fire he said. Then a medium fire was reported from a factory on 100-ft road.A garbage heap near Animal Hospital, Hathi Gate, caught fire due to firecrackers around 1 am.A fire incident was reported at Amardav Avenue, Tarn Taran. A portion of house burnt at Baba Phori Wala Chowk in Sultanwind. A shop was gutted in Ishwar Nagar near Court Mangal Singh, Tarn Taran road, during the wee hours. The officials suspected that reason behind most incidents was firecrackers.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/diwali-night-keeps-fire-officials-on-toes-170933
16-11-2020||---||Showers bring respite from dry spell||Amritsar, November 15Showers on Sunday afternoon came as a blessing for the city residents as it helped wash down dust and particle pollution floating in the air especially after the Diwali night when huge quantities of firecrackers were burnt.The rain has also increased the chill in the air resulting in a substantial fall in the temperature. However, it surely has worried the farmers whose fields are awaiting wheat sowing. Though a maximum of the wheat crop has already been sown but a large number of fields under basmati crop are lying vacant. Farmers brave rain, take out ‘mashal’ march to protest farm lawsThe farmers said the showers would also decrease the germination of wheat seeds in the fields which were sown recently. “The rain would harm the crops which were sown in last two-three days, while the crops which were sown 10-12 days ago, the damage would be much less,” said Jaswinder Singh, a farmer.However, farmers alike the city residents stated that the dry spell spanning over two months have ended with the showers on Sunday. The rain started around 2 pm with the black clouds covering the entire region and blocking the sunlight from reaching the earth.In most areas, the vehicle drivers were forced to switch on the headlights abruptly as dark clouds started gathering. A city resident, Nancy Singh, said, “The weather has become lovely with the showers. Even though it was mid-November, the weather was still hot and people had to use air conditioners in cars and fans at night.” She said that now she would be able to wear her heavy winter dresses. The showers washed away pollutants cleansed the air, letting the city chocked on pollution, breathe.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/showers-bring-respite-from-dry-spell-170934
16-11-2020||Our Correspondent||Social distancing goes for a toss||Tarn Taran, November 15Social distancing went for a toss on Diwali and the monthly Chaudas-Amavas festival. A large number of residents were seen roaming marketplaces without maintaining the required physical distance.On the monthly Chaudas-Amavas, devotees in a big number pay a visit to Sri Darbar Sahib. They take bath and listen to Gurbani kirtan. The number of devotees had decreased significantly in the last about nine months due to the Covid-19 threat but in the last month the number of devotees increased.As today was Amavasya and the sangrand, crowds of devotees were seen. People took holy bath and made offerings. As the number of devotees had decreased during the last few months, there was no one to avail benefit of the rooms in the sarai.Devotees started pouring in early in the morning and the rush continued the whole day till it rained in the afternoon.Bhai Kuldeep Singh, manager, Sri Darbar Sahib, said the footfall of devotees was neither less nor in excess. He said it was the second month when the the religious congregation was organised for the whole night in which devotees were acquainted with Sikh history by the ragi jathas by reciting Wars (songs to sing with warrior voices).An official of Darbar Sahib said offerings (chadhava) increased manifold this time which was the first time in the last nine months. Devotees did not follow social distancing norms during their visit here. On the other hand, thousands of devotees paid a visit to Gurdwara Beer Baba Budha Sahib, Thatha, where devotees started visiting from the midnight on the holy sangrand.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/social-distancing-goes-for-a-toss-170935
16-11-2020||---||Man held for shooting wife||Amritsar, November 15On the eve of Diwali festival and Bandi Chhor Divas, a woman was shot dead by her husband following a dispute in Gagarmal village falling under the Lopokay police station area on Friday late evening. The deceased was identified as Paramjit Kaur.The police have booked her husband Baldev Singh, a watchman in a school, who was arrested on Friday night. A case of murder and arms act was registered against him on the complaint of victim’s daughter Sandeep Kaur.Kaur stated to the police that Baldev Singh and his mother often quarrel over one issue or other. She said on Friday at around 7.30 pm, both had a heated exchange of words over some matter. Enraged over this, her father Baldev Singh brought his licensed rifle and fired at her mother. She died on the spot while Baldev Singh fled the scene.Sub-Inspector Harpal Singh, investigating officer, said the victim was cooking food when a quarrel started. Kaur said he shot her in the face due to which she died on the spot. Though he had fled from the scene, he was arrested from the village later on. He was produced in a court on Sunday, which sent him to two-day police remand. The police have also recovered the weapon used in the crime.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/man-held-for-shooting-wife-170936
16-11-2020||---||Four  booked for culpable homicide in two incidents||Amritsar, November 15Two alleged drug peddlers, including a woman, were among three booked on the charge of culpable homicide after a youth, identified as Chandan, died due to drug overdose in the Maqboolpura area here on Friday.The police arrested one suspect, identified as Gurwinder Singh of Kot Mit Singh area, in this connection and two other accused were still absconding. They were identified as Jyoti and Major Singh, both residents of Maqboolpura locality, which is infamous for rampant drug abuse and bootlegging.Suraj, complainant and brother of the victim, told the Maqboolpura police that on Friday, the accused took his younger brother to Jyoti’s home in the Maqboolpura area where they consumed drugs. He said his brother got unconscious and when he came to know about this, he rushed to the spot and took him to Guru Nanak Dev Hospital where he died during treatment.Inderjit Singh, SHO, Maqboolpura police station, said on Suraj’s statement, the police booked Gurwinder, Jyoti and Major under Sections 304 and 34 of the IPC. While Gurwinder was arrested, the remaining two were still on the run. He said Jyoti and Major already had cases registered under the NDPS Act against them while the antecedents of Gurwinder were being ascertained.Meanwhile, in another incident, a shawl trader lost his life during a scuffle with another trader over a monetary dispute. The victim has been identified as Vinod Nayyar and the accused as Kewal Goyal who is yet to be arrested.Shiv Lal, an employee of Nayyar, told the police that when he came to the shop, he saw Kewal Goyal having an argument with Nayyar. He alleged Goyal was pressurising him into making a payment. He said Nayyar fell down during a heated argument and was rushed to a hospital where doctors declared him dead.Parkash Singh, investigating officer of the case, said Nayyar was a heart patient and had undergone a bypass surgery recently. He said he apparently felt insulted and suffered a cardiac arrest when he entered into an argument with the victim. He said a case under Section 304 of the IPC had been registered against Goyal in this regard.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/four-booked-for-culpable-homicide-in-two-incidents-170937
16-11-2020||---||Air quality hits a low||Amritsar, November 15The air quality index (AQI) reached the alarming levels of 377 on the night of Diwali in the city, which was worse than that on last Diwali. The city was among those cities of the state where the worst AQI levels were recorded.A good development was noted as the peak hour noise pollution levels due to bursting of crackers were reduced to two hours. The average air pollution remained 311.06 micro gross per meter (ug/m cubic) particulate matter (PM) 10 and 199.61 PM2.5.Abhishek Kumar, engineer, Customer Support Department, said both PM10 and PM2.5 were found to be in severe category. Ideally, PM10 should be around 100 and PM2.5 at 60. However, both of them were found to be hovering around the severe level.Cracker ban: five cases registeredThese particles cause health problems mostly in the upper respiratory tract as these consist of smoke, dirt and dust from factories, farming, roads and other sources.The particles smaller than 2.5 micrometers are called PM2.5 as these carry toxic organic compounds and heavy metals. They are made from automobile exhaust, burning garbage and landfill, smelting and processing of metals.Punjab Pollution Control Board (PPCB) SDO Sukhdev Singh said the AQI deteriorated during the months of October and November every year. “The winter season and delay in rain create lead to accumulation of dust particles and smoke in the immediate environment.”The AQI had gone down to 65 during the lockdown while it was found at 90 in September when all industrial, farming, traffic and other activities had reached at full throttle after unlocking of the lockdown.The data was recorded from residential, commercial, near sensitive installations like hospitals and educational institutes, besides industrial.Meanwhile, the average noise pollution level was detected 70 Leq db (A). It was certainly high from the daily noise level. Vinod Kumar, JE, PPCB, said a positive thing found was that the peak noise pollution hours saw a decline this Diwali. It was found between 8 pm and 10 pm which used to be between 8 pm and 11.30 pm earlier.He attributed it to many people avoiding bursting firecrackers. High inflation and awareness campaigns held by the government and NGOs had also led to a decline in the sale of firecrackers.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/air-quality-hits-a-low-170940
16-11-2020||Tarn Taran||Anti-govt posters in Tarn Taran||party had come to their rescue against the farm laws passed by the Central government. OCTwo fall prey to virus, 37 positiveAmritsar: The health authorities reported two deaths due to the Covid-19 on Sunday with which the toll reached 474. The deceased have been identified as Surjit Singh, a 70-year-old from Kamoke village near Baba Bakala, and Dalbir Kaur, a 70-year-old female from Gopal Nagar. The district reported 37 new positive cases with which the total count of infections have increased to 12,308. The new cases include 30 influenza like illness cases and seven contacts of positive patients. Meanwhile, with recovery of 37 patients, the recovery count has also increased to 11,469. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/anti-govt-posters-in-tarn-taran-170942
16-11-2020||---||Dark Diwali for Gaggomahal family as their minor son dies||Amritsar, November 15The festival of lights turned tragic for Paramjit Singh of Gaggomahal village after his minor son lost his life. He was killed after a teenage boy pushed an air pipe into his private part (rectum area) and filled air. The victim was rushed to hospital where he died.The accused, also a minor, was on the run. A case of culpable homicide was registered against him. According to Mantej Singh, the investigating officer of the case, both belonged to poor families. While the victim worked in a welding shop, the accused used to work in the adjoining tyre puncture repairing shop.Paramjit Singh told the police that his 11-year-old son was a student of Class VII in a government school. He also used to learn welding works in a shop located near Gaggomahal bus stop. He told the police that on Saturday morning, he dropped his son outside the welding shop where he used to work and went to market. The shop was closed at that time.He said around 15 minutes later when he returned, he saw his son half-naked lying unconscious on the roadside. He said on seeing him, the accused, who had inserted air pressure pipe inside his private part, fled the spot. He said the air was filled in the stomach of his son. He said with the help of people, he rushed his son to the Civil Hospital in Ajnala from where he was referred to Sri Guru Ram Dass Hospital in Amritsar where he succumbed. Mantej said a case under Section 304 of the IPC had been registered against the accused.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/dark-diwali-for-gaggomahal-family-as-their-minor-son-dies-170943
16-11-2020||---||Snakes’ role important for ecosystem, say experts||Kapurthala, November 15A webinar on ‘Rediscovering snakes’ was organised by Pushpa Gujral Science City recently. Yash Singh, snake conservationist and wildlife photographer, said: “India sees the largest number of snakebite deaths. There is an urgent need for us to understand the way to safely coexist with snakes and take necessary precautions to bring down the number of snakebite cases.”He said there were about 3,600 species of snakes globally and India had more than 300 species of snakes, with more species being discovered now with more people working in the field and use of latest technology.He said: “Most snakebites occur when people try to capture or kill a snake. When left alone, snakes present little or no danger to people. Snakes usually prefer to retreat when encountered but can become defensive if threatened.”Dr Neelima Jerath, Director General, Science City, said: “Biodiversity plays an important role in maintaining the health and ecological balance in an ecosystem. All species are in a complex food web and help to maintain a population balance. Without snakes, the number of prey species would increase to unnatural levels and destroy the stability of the ecosystem. Similarly, if a large number of snakes are killed, the predators that eat snakes will struggle to find food. Snakes are thus an important component of the natural environment.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/snakes-role-important-for-ecosystem-say-experts-170945
16-11-2020||OPEN HOUSE||As dirty politics rears its ugly head, public bears the brunt||Resolve the farmers’ matter at the earliestYes, the present situation is due to the Centre vs state politics as two rival parties hold power at both levels. The blame game has been going on between them without giving due importance to the demands of farmers. Though farmers have agreed to shift their protests from the railway tracks to railway stations, the Central Government is still hesitant in resuming the supply of trains. Even central ministers were not willing to meet farmers before. With a meeting on cards now after such a long time, farmers are the major stakeholders in this matter. So, the best way forward is to listen to them and solve their issues at both the central level and state level.Jatinderpal SinghCentre seems to be playing with fireTotally, the non-resumption of goods trains, which has caused power crisis in the state and problems galore for the industry, has created a precarious situation which is the direct outcome of such dirty politics. The Central Government is brazenly acting vindictively and revengefully against Punjab to teach a lesson to the agitating farmers instead of redressing their grievances. That doesn't bode well for the tried and tested federal structure of the country. Rather it shows the Centre’s hatred and ill-will towards the state as if it were not an integral part of the Indian Union. In doing so, the Centre is playing a dangerous game which may provoke people and foment trouble. To cause financial blockade of the state amounts to playing with fire and the vicious move appears to be a part of a larger conspiracy against Punjab which may trigger far-reaching ramifications. Baseless excuses are being put forward not to resume the train services. Consequently, it has led to acute power crisis in the state. It has severely affected the supply of fertilisers necessary for Rabi crops, movement of food grain stocks besides heavily impacting the industry. Punjab government asserts that railway tracks across the state are absolutely clear for the uninterrupted movement of goods trains but the Centre is ignoring it using one alibi or the other. Obviously it is hell-bent on harming Punjab's economy. Punjab BJP is playing a dubious role. Rather than convincing the Centre for the restoration of trains it is stoking fire for its vested interests because Punjab is being governed by Congress. To it, dirty politics is of paramount importance. Railway authorities are acting at the behest of its political bosses offering lame excuses for the safety and security of its staff and crew. The forces inimical to the state have conspired to punish it for the farmers' protests. It does not augur well for anyone. Hence, the need of the hour is that the State and Centre should liaise together with the common goal of solving the contentious issue in the interest of the country. Punjab industry has incurred a loss of Rs22,000 crore due to the suspension of goods trains. Will the Union Finance Minister compensate for that? The cancellation of trains has also left the passengers high and dry. Worst affected are the ones who don't have access to online ticket booking.Tarsem S BumrahIndustry is at the receiving endThe suspension of trains by farmers has affected Punjab's coal supply and now there is shortage of power in the state. Different areas are having two hours of power cuts in the state - there is a dearth of 1000 MW power. The suspension of trains has also affected Punjab's industrial sector and many problems are being faced. Almost all industry, including textile, handtool, autoparts, steel are facing shortage of raw materials. Around 10,000 containers have been stuck at various dry ports due to suspension of goods trains. Containers had raw materials worth Rs6,000-7,000 crore and industries had faced loss of Rs1,500-2,000 crore due to non-operation of goods trains. According to me, yes, it is outcome of State vs Centre politics because if Centre did not pass the three farm Bills as laws then there would be no protests and no suspension of trains and no losses. There would be no shortage of power.Amritjot KaurCoal stock not getting replenishedThe suspension of freight trains amid farmers’ stir against the Centre's three farm laws has affected coal supply for thermal power plants in Punjab. All three private thermal power plants have exhausted their coal stocks. The Talwandi Sabo Power Limited (TSPL) declared that plants will suspend power as coal stock was exhausted. Yes, it is outcome of faceless politics as they are not working properly and shut downs in Punjab were caused so the trains cannot run on tracks.Harjot SinghStop protesting on rail tracksThe power situation has turned grim in Punjab with thermal plants running out of coal stock as movement of coal rakes in the state has remained suspended for about a month. In such a situation, it's quite obvious that Punjab state will be in trouble soon. Farmers have become stubborn as they are sitting on rail tracks day/night. Farmers need to understand that if they continue, the Punjab will go out of power soon. One thing everyone needs to know is nobody can fight with the central government. So, there is no point in protesting. Once the law has been imposed, there will be no rolling it back. The law has been passed in the Parliament and it's the big thing. I would like to give the instance of abrogation of "Article 370". At that time, so many people were protesting of this abrogation but central government did not cancel the orders. How the farmers can think that the central government will take down the farm laws. They must keep one thing in the mind that nothing will happen. So, the farmers should leave the railway tracks and let the trains resume for the betterment of state as well as the country.Saahil HansGovt should find a common groundIn our country central government and state governors have different set of rules, when opposition parties are in power. In case of recently passed farm Bills by a specially convened session of Assembly, the state governor refused to sign it and send it to President of India for his assent. Further, the President refused to meet duly elected CM of the state due to politics. Now, the declining economy due to the lockdown needs help to recover but the central government is further expanding it by refusing to talk to agitating farmers. This is because the farming community is being supported by Congress-led state government, which is not appreciated by BJP ruled central government. This strains the relationship between two different political parties and that is damaging the economy of the state. It is time for both parties heading centre and state governments to remember the saying of Winston Churchill "Accept life like a pair of legs. The foot forward has no pride. The foot behind has no shame. Both know their position will soon change.Harsh N Joharcrisis looms if train services don’t resumeThe non-resumption of goods trains may cause power crisis in the state. It may also lead to other problems. In my opinion, it is the direct result of dirty politics. After a long time of staying at homes, the government must contemplate about economy of the country and goods train must resume. It is a fact that politics is a dirty game but they must also think about the gullible and common people who are facing the consequences of it.IzleenQUESTIONAs the ban on firecrackers went up in flames this year, what according to you must be done to enforce the rules in letter and spirit next time?Suggestions in not more than 200 words can be sent to amritsardesk@tribunemail.com by Thursday (November 19).||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/as-dirty-politics-rears-its-ugly-head-public-bears-the-brunt-170947
