18-11-2020||Amritsar||Six booked for attacking cops||Six residents of Himmatpura village were booked on Monday for thrashing cops and tearing their uniforms at Gate Hakima here.Two of them have been identified as Gora Singh Mistri and Sonu, both residents of Himmatpura. Sub-Inspector Amarjit Singh, complainant in the case, said, “We received information that around 15 persons were playing cards in the ground. On seeing a police party some of them fled the spot, while others started arguing with the police and Gora Singh started abusing cops.” Then cops raised an alarm and call for more force. Meanwhile, all accused fled the spot. The police have registered a case.Car thief bookedThe police have booked a person involved in stealing cars. The accused has been identified as Palwinder Singh, alias Raju, of Bhikhiwind. The accused used to sell the vehicles by affixing fake registration numbers. The police have also recovered a stolen SUV from him. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/six-booked-for-attacking-cops-171801
18-11-2020||Tarn Taran||PSPCL staff protest over pending dues||Employees and pensioners of Punjab State Power Corporation Limited (PSPCL) under the banner of Mulazam Pensioner Talmel Sangharsh Committee, Punjab, organised a circle-level rally against the corporation management here on Tuesday for not releasing arrears of DA and other pending dues as well.Representatives of different organisations, including state-level leaders Ravel Singh Sahaipuri, Swinderpal Singh and Sukhwinder Singh Chahal, addressed the workers on the occasion. The leaders demanded release of the sixth pay commission report, payment of dearness allowance arrears, restoration of cashless medical scheme, hike in monthly medical allowance to Rs 3,000 and concessional electricity to retired and newly appointed employees. The leaders apprised the gathering of indifferent attitude of Powercom management and the state government. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/pspcl-staff-protest-over-pending-dues-171802
18-11-2020||---||CII calls upon farmers, govts to end impasse||Amritsar, November 17Expressing deep concern over the state’s economy and industry in the wake of ongoing rail blockade because of agitation by farmer organisations, the CII has issued a fervent appeal to both the Central and state governments and also the farmer organisations to come together and find an amicable solution to end this crisis.Office-bearers of CII stated that the rail blockade had acquired the shape of economic blockade. The industry in Punjab, already reeling under Covid disruption, has estimated losses in thousands of crores as train services remain suspended.Rahul Ahuja, chairman, CII Punjab State Council, has urged the Central Government to initiate train service as it is damaging the state’s industry. The Union Government, along with the state government, should sit together and resolve the problems of the farmers.“The farmers of Punjab contribute nearly 50 per cent of food in the country. In a democracy everyone has a right to represent their cause to peaceful protests and agitation. We understand that farmers may have some reservations with respect to the recently passed farm Acts. However, this agitation is now causing economic losses not only to large businesses but is even impacting the local industry, the labour in the factories, logistic providers, small kirana stores who are unable to get the supply, daily wage earners and even small farmers,” he said.Bhavdeep Sardana, vice-chairman, CII Punjab State, stated that the current crisis had adversely impacted the working capital and liquidity in market. Further continuing of this crisis would mean flight of industry, investment, jobs and capital from the state which it can ill afford at this juncture, he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/cii-calls-upon-farmers-govts-to-end-impasse-171803
18-11-2020||---||Phulkari CAN supports WHO campaign on cervical cancer in Amritsar||Amritsar, November 17In a display of unity and to spread awareness regarding cervical cancer, the district authorities and non-governmental organisation (NGO) Phulkari CAN lit several monuments, including Golden Temple, Town Hall and Jallianwala Bagh, in the colour of teal, representing solidarity with the global movement.In India, several monuments such as Howrah Bridge were lit up for the cause. In Amritsar, PhulkariCAN worked with the authorities for illumination of Golden Temple Plaza, Heritage Walk, Jallianwala Bagh and Town Hall. PhulkariCAN also ran a presentation on important facts of cervical cancer on LED screens to create awareness among the residents.“The World Health Organisation launched a global strategy to eliminate cervical cancer on November 17 with 194 countries adopting it in the World Health Assembly. The launch was a day of action around the world with various ministries, NGOs and citizens of several countries organising cancer prevention and treatment events. We joined hands in that effort to accerelerate diagnosis, treatment and prevention of cervical cancer,” said Nidhi Sindhwani, chief, Phulkari CAN.Cervical cancer is a completely preventable disease and yet there are an estimated 96,000 new cases and 60,000 deaths due to it annually. PhulkariCAN has been working to make Punjab the 1st cervical cancer-free state since 2018 and we have been successful in spreading awareness among two lakh people and we have got several underprivileged women screened for this cancer free of cost,” she added.Member of Parliament Gurjeet Singh Aujla, who lent his support to the cause, said, “It’s a great team effort by Phulkari CAN for their continued push to accelerate global progress towards a world free of cervical cancer.” Deputy Commissioner Gurpreet Singh Khaira said, “Cervical cancer is the only cancer on its way to elimination. I lend my support to Phulkari CAN who along with the World Health Organisation is working to change this statistic.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/phulkari-can-supports-who-campaign-on-cervical-cancer-in-amritsar-171805
18-11-2020||Neeraj Bagga||Amit Mehta: This baker did not let the lockdown bite him||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, November 17Having spent nearly two decades as a chef, Amit Mehta (37) ventured into opening his own bakery during the lockdown. He was earning about Rs 20,000 per month when the lockdown was imposed. “Like everyone else, even I waited for the situation to turn normal. During this time, neighbours contacted him for cakes which he delivered efficiently without going out of home.”Evaluating the response, he decided to give it a shot full time. He took the help of his grandfather in utilising his shop for extending the bakery business. He had learnt the basics of bakery from a Chandigarh-based bakery shop in Sector 13 (Mani Majra). “I learnt to bake over 50 varieties of cakes.” After returning to his native city, he worked at a leading bakery shop of the city for nearly a decade.Amit, a father of two kids, said after the lockdown, sales were not quite encouraging. Before the festive season, there was an encouraging upswing. He hoped that the trend would continue.Sharing his experience of having served different strata of people, he said choices vary, depending upon age and paying capacity. He said grown-ups prefer butter scotch, pineapple and fruit cakes. Others prefer German truffle and black current. On the scope of bakery as a profession, he stated that it was immense. One can bake round the clock but still cannot complete all items. At present, he is preparing only 25 varieties of biscuits which include butter biscuit, almond, custard, dry fruit, egg based and without eggs.He also added patties to the menu, offering veg, cheese, mushroom, and also non-vegetarian.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/amit-mehta-this-baker-did-not-let-the-lockdown-bite-him-171806
18-11-2020||Charanjit Singh Teja||Firefighter: Lovepreet Singh puts his own life at risk to save others||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, November 17On a typical day, Lovepreet Singh, Assistant Divisional Fire Officer, has to be alert all the time to attend any emergency call. “I keep myself alert for any kind of rescue operation. So, it is not a usual 9 am to 5 pm job. I have to be on call all the time,” said Lovpreet. There are also days when his days and nights demand his sweat and blood.He attends office and also other assigned duties. He visits the spots where fire incidents are reported. Lovpreet says that unplanned development of cities, narrow streets, absence of fire prevention and safety measures in commercial buildings are the major challenges, which they face while attending emergency fire calls. He has a team of 70 firefighters which works efficiently under his command.“We have around 10 numbers to report a fire incident in the district. Whenever we get an emergency fire call, our operator immediately informs the control room at the head office in the Town Hall. Then, we decide which fire tender is stationed near the spot, from where we can get refills of water easily. We decide several things within no time and rush to the spot,” said Lovepreet.In his 23 years of service, he witnessed several major fire incidents and always led from the front. “I have joined the Fire Department as a leading fireman and worked at several stations in the state. I have attended several emergency calls and conducted rescue operations. This enriched my experience and I have great memories of my service.”Being a seniormost official in the Fire Brigade Department, Lovpreet Singh visits every major spot and monitors the operations. On the night of Diwali, he attended several spots and led the team.“Being a firefighter, you can’t afford even a minute’s delay. It has become a routine to respond every call immediately. The presence of officials motivates the firefighter and a team work also enhances the competency,” added Singh.Lovepreet attended several meets and training sessions at the national and international levels for disaster management. He also bagged a gold medal during his training as a sub-fire officer in New Delhi. During his tenure as the station fire officer, he also attended an international seminar on fire safety.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/firefighter-lovepreet-singh-puts-his-own-life-at-risk-to-save-others-171807
18-11-2020||Our Correspondent||Farmers in Tarn Taran demand inquiry into ‘fraud’ of Rs 2.8L by Punjab National Bank||Tarn Taran, November 17Farmers under the banner of Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Committee, Punjab, on Tuesday gheraoed a local branch of Punjab National Bank against a fraud of Rs 2.8 lakh with a farmer. The farmers staged a dharna in front of the bank which resulted in disruption of normal flow of traffic. The police had a tough time managing traffic on the road.Sangharsh committee leader Jarmanjit Singh, while addressing on the occasion, said Gurinderjit Singh, a farmer of Kabbe Dogran village, dropped a cheque for Rs 2.8 lakh in cheque-drop box situated at bank’s branch on the instructions of a bank employee on September 23. He had been regularly in touch with bank officials about the entry of amount in his account. He was astonished to know when the bank officials informed him on October 3 that the bank had not received his cheque. Meanwhile, he came to know that the cheque amount had been withdrawn through the bank branch in Amritsar by some other person. The farmers brought the matter to the notice of bank manager and informed him that they would hold a dharna against fraud, but he went on leave today.SDM Rajnish Arora arranged a meeting with a delegation of the farmers and bank officials. After hearing both the parties he ordered bank officials to make the payment to farmer. After that the farmers lifted the dharna. The farmers have demanded a high-level inquiry into the matter to know the role of bank officials in the alleged fraud.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/farmers-in-tarn-taran-demand-inquiry-into-fraud-of-rs-2-8l-by-punjab-national-bank-171810
18-11-2020||Tarn Taran||Two injured in firing; 17 booked in Tarn Taran||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/two-injured-in-firing-17-booked-in-tarn-taran-171809
18-11-2020||Amritsar||Farmers hold their ground, lock horns over passenger trains in Amritsar||Farmers sitting on the protest against the three farm laws passed by the Centre claimed that their stir would continue till the controversial laws were repealed. The protest by kisan unions at Butari railway station entered the 48th day on Tuesday.Surjit Singh Bhooregill, a farm leader, said they were also mobilising public to hold a protest in New Delhi on November 26.Meanwhile, the Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Committee, which has been holding the protest at Gehri Mandi railway station, announced to show black flags to BJP chief JP Nadda during his visit to Punjab. Sarwan Singh Pandher, general secretary of the committee, said the aim of Nadda’s visit would be to propagate his party’s ideology.He said farmers would not allow passenger trains to enter the state. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/farmers-hold-their-ground-lock-horns-over-passenger-trains-in-amritsar-171811
18-11-2020||---||Covid-19: One succumbs, 48 new cases in Amritsar||Amritsar, November 17With one Covid-19 related death in the district, the toll reached 475 on Tuesday. The deceased has been identified as Parvesh Sharma, a 68-year-old, resident of SJS Avenue.The district health authorities reported 48 new positive cases with which the total count reached 12,389.The new cases include 30 influenza like illness cases and 18 contacts of positive patients. Meanwhile, with recovery of 15 patients, the count has increased to 11,503. At present, the district has a total of 411 active cases.Covid cases have shown a spike in recent days. Infections have been rising in several northern states in the Capital’s vicinity even as the overall national count has shown a slight decline so far this week. States where cases have surged in the past 10 days include Haryana, Rajasthan, Himachal, Punjab, Uttarakhand and, to a lesser extent, UP||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/covid-19-one-succumbs-48-new-cases-in-amritsar-171812
18-11-2020||Charanjit Singh Teja||3 years on, automated parking lots remain a distant dream in Amritsar||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, November 17The multi-level automated parking lots proposed under the Smart City project seems to be a distant dream as the Amritsar Municipal Corporation has yet not finalised the tendering process. Eight months after revising the cost, a few vendors had shown interest for Kairon market multi-level car parking project.Senior officials of Amritsar Smart City Limited (ASCL) claimed that the financial bid would be opened soon and the tendering process would be completed within a month.The automated parking projects were announced by the ASCL in 2017. ASCL had first released a tender for design, operation and maintenance for 10 years of fully automated multi-level car parking facility at Kairon market on October 10, 2018.No vendor could fulfill the requirements of ASCL and the authorities failed to find a vendor later as well.According to information, there would be a total of seven floors (two underground) in the proposed Kairon market parking. The parking would facilitate several markets near Hall Bazaar and Katra Jaimal Singh.ASCL officials informed that there were a limited number of such multi-level automated parking lots in the country. Lack of space at Kairon market has proved to be a major hurdle in designing and implementation of the project. There are not many vendors who deal with such technology in the country.In February, the city-level Technical Committee revised the cost of multi-level car parking at Kairon market in a meeting held under the Smart City project. Earlier, the cost of the project was Rs 18.24 crore, which had been revised to Rs 32 crore.Apart from the Kairon market, ASCL also proposed a similar parking lot at Machhi Mandi. ASCL did not initiate its tendering process as officials were waiting to finalise the Kairon market project.Komal Mittal, CEO, ASCL-cum-MC Commissioner, said, “We will open financial bid for Kairon market multi-level car parking soon. After revising its cost to Rs 32 crore, we have bidders and a contract will be awarded within a month. Hopefully, the work will start in the next calendar year and it will take one year for completion. Later, we will start the tendering process for Machhi Mandi.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/3-years-on-automated-parking-lots-remain-a-distant-dream-in-amritsar-171808
18-11-2020||Gurbaxpuri||What was once a preferred route is despised now||Tarn Taran, November 17Travelling had never been more convenient and smooth for residents of Lauhka, Khabbe Rajputan, Naushehra Pannuan and other villages four years back in September with the construction of the ATTS road. But the joy was short-lived.Just over a year had passed when the first few cracks started surfacing in the 8.18-km long course, and today, it is streaked with potholes and cracks at every few meters. The residents have been vocal enough about the flimsy work carried out at the time of construction, which dates back to December 2013, but the woes seem unable to strike their ears.Constructed at a cost of Rs6.58 crore under the 'Pradhan Mantri Gram Sadak Yojna' (PMGSY), the road links Naushehra Panuan to Lauhka village situated on the Tarn Taran-Patti road. Being part of the national highway No. 54 it caters to people of many border area villages making it feasible to have an easy approach to the Malwa belt and Amritsar with the Doaba belt."After a year of the completion work the road broke at several places," said Malkiat Singh, Sarpanch of Khabbe Rajputan village. They raised the issue with the authorities and efforts from area's MLA Harminder Singh Gill some patch work was possible. However, as the toll plaza at Usman village came up so did the number of trucks, private buses, and other heavy-duty vehicles frequenting the route. Soon, it was again time for locals to fasten their seatbelts and brace for a turbulent ride as the road cracked at several points.Taking note of the pitiful condition, the residents of Khabbe Rajputan village even staged a dharna on the road for days to block the passing of the undue heavy-duty vehicles. "The passing of the heavy-duty vehicles of the Rana Sugar Mills, Lauhka were also responsible for rotting of the road…and our travails," residents of the area said.Daljit Singh, Sarpanch of Lauhka, and Malkiat Singh, Sarpanch of Khabbe Rajputan village, have demanded for the early repair of the road as the fixed five- year term has not been expired under the PMGSY scheme.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/what-was-once-a-preferred-route-is-despised-now-171804
18-11-2020||---||Cultural venues in Amritsar resume operations with a promise||Amritsar, November 17Cultural spaces in the city have come back to some sort of life by hosting minimal creative activities, looking to bring the audience back post Covid-19 lockdown. The creative discourse had shifted to virtual media during the lockdown to keep the momentum. With the reopening of major cultural venues in the city, the possibility of resuming the live creative experience seems quite promising.Thakar Singh Art Gallery resumed its operations in the first week of November by hosting a play, “Love Guru”, where a selected audience of mostly officials from the district administration was invited. “Covid-19 has taken us all to the nerves and more so, it had an impact on the cultural landscape. We hosted the play with a prospect to encourage more people to come in for our art shows and events. If they were convinced and endorsed the fact that we conducted our live theatre safely, maybe others will be willing to come too,” said Arvinder Chamak, general secretary, IAFA, who is also an artist himself.The gallery has hosted a crafts exhibition of local artisans and another solo show by an artist after reopening. “I believe that creative discourse requires intimate medium and the move towards virtual mode was just temporary survival tactic. We have to start the cultural/creative activities and events to instill confidence in our audience and to normalise the situation,” said Chamak. IAFA is also planning to host the annual state art exhibition and festival in the coming weeks and a seven-day-long live crafts workshop featuring artisans and weavers from Punjab.KT Kala, another gallery and museum space promoting art and local artists, has been continuing its art shows online, latest one being an exhibition of art works by artist Simar Kapoor. It is open only for staff currently but plans to reopen soon. Virsa Vihar, whose president is theatre personality Kewal Dhaliwal, has been performing live theatre plays since last month, will reopen in the first week of December. “One has to bring back the cultural calendar of the city as we know that we have to live with Covid-19. It will be a challenge to bring in audience but it has to be done. We have been carrying out development work of Virsa Vihar for prepare for reopening,” said Dhaliwal, who recently performed the play, “Agg Di Jayi Da Geet”, written by him and based on the Hathras victim.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/cultural-venues-in-amritsar-resume-operations-with-a-promise-171796
18-11-2020||---||Rain pain: More moisture may pour trouble for wheat growers in Amritsar||Amritsar, November 17The recent heavy showers in areas of Amritsar and Tarn Taran districts may cause trouble for wheat growers, especially those who had sown seeds just before the rain as they fear that the seeds would fail to germinate due to presence of moisture content. Even the rain will lead to a delay in the sowing of the crop of many other growers who were getting ready for the same.Kuljeet Singh, a farmer from Malawali village near here, said, “We had sown four and a half acres last Sunday. The rain did not even let us complete the process.” He said if the moisture content would have surpassed the optimum level, the seeds would not germinate. “We will now have to prepare the fields again next week when moisture content levels will drop and re-sow the seeds.As farmers would have to spend more money on diesel and seeds, the input costs for them would increase by around Rs 1,500-2,000. Though most of the farmers had finished wheat sowing before Diwali, many others, who had cultivated late grown basmati varieties and vegetables, were still to finish the work.Sukhwant Singh, a vegetable grower, said he was planning to sow the seeds after Diwali but the rain postponed his plans to some another week. “A week’s delay in sowing results in a drop of about one quintal of yield. The late sown wheat generally does not sprout well,” he added.Farmers say that agriculture to a great extent is still dependent on weather and sometimes they have to suffer losses due to untimely rains. As it rained heavily between mid-October and mid-November, many farmers had to re-sow the crop.“This year, the number of farmers who faced problems due to heavy showers is much less as compared to previous year,” said an agriculture official, adding that farmers should check germination after a few days before deciding to sow the crop again.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/rain-pain-more-moisture-may-pour-trouble-for-wheat-growers-in-amritsar-171797
