19-11-2020||The Kar Sewa sect||All For a clean, green tomorrow||Senior nursing tutor brings laurels to cityAnureet, a senior nursing tutor at DMCH, Ludhiana, brought laurels to her birth place Tarn Taran town by finding a place in an international journal twice regularly in two months during the peak period of Covid-19. Anureet is an M Sc in psychiatric nursing. She belongs to Tarn Taran and is married in Ludhiana. Her first article ‘A study to assess anxiety associated with end of life among elderly people in selected areas of Ludhiana, Punjab, published in Volume 9 Issue 6 June 2020 in the International Journal of Scientific Research(IJSR) published from USA. Her second article got space in the next month under the title ‘A study to assess depression associated with end of life among elderly people in selected areas of Ludhiana, Punjab, in Volume 9 Issue 7 July 2020 in the same journal. The editor-in-chief and the editorial board of the journal issued an appreciation letter to Anureet for her contribution. Anureet said that she had worked under the guidance of Dr Mrs Triza Jiwan, principal on the topics. She collected 100 samples of persons aged 60 years or above. Samples were taken from people residing at homes and from old-age home at Ludhiana. Standardised tools of anxiety and depression were used to collect data. The study revealed that majority of the elderly were in the age group of 60-70 years, and it was more in females as compared to males. Anureet said that she wanted to do more work on the topic farmers’ suicides as this hardworking community was considered to be much courageous .Be responsible if you own a dog!Parwinder Singh, a social activist associated with the Kalpana Chawla Pargatisheel Society, has taken a serious note of littering along roads by pet dogs in the morning. Parwinder, through a letter written recently, had urged the Municipal Council, Tarn Taran, to penalise pet owners if their dogs were found littering public places. He said it was not only causing pollution but many a times walkers have to face great irritation when they step on dog poop. The activist has appreciated the administration of Ludhiana which has made compulsory registration for pet animals with Rs400 as the registration fee. He said stray dogs and animals were already creating traffic hazard and pollution in the town as these were seen wandering on roads and residential localities. It is time owners should know how to handle the poo habits of their pets and at the same time take proper responsibility of their pets, he said. Sources in the Municipal Committee here informed that ‘cow cess’ was not being used properly by gaushala owners.(Contributed by Gurbaxpuri)||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/all-for-a-clean-green-tomorrow-172301
19-11-2020||---||KCET inks pact with BR Ambedkar NIT||Amritsar, November 18Khalsa College of Engineering and Technology (KCET) today signed an MoU with Dr BR Ambedkar National Institute of Technology (BR-NIT), Jalandhar, to generate support and co-operation between two institutions.Dr Manju Bala, director, KCET, informed that faculties would exchange scientific and technical information, postgraduate theses, research activities, seminars, workshops, conferences and training programmes under the MoU. Dr Lalit Kumar Awasthi, director, BR-NIT said the NIT would fully cooperate and put in the best efforts to guide the students of KCET. “Our institute will completely support faculty, staff and students of college for skill enhancement,” added Dr Awasthi.“The MoU is for a period of five years. Under this, increased student interaction with industry experts and scientists for developing innovative thinking capacity, ability for teamwork, will boost their confidence and widen their academic horizon,” said Dr Manju Bala.Earlier, this year the college had signed an MoU with IIT Bombay and consequently, the college is now a part of spoken tutorial programme of IIT Bombay which is run through ICT, MHRD, Govt of India. More than 120 students have completed various Swayam-NPTEL and MOOC courses. Around 28 students recently secured top merit positions in IKG PTU and out of them, seven students secured the first position in various semesters and branches.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/kcet-inks-pact-with-br-ambedkar-nit-172302
19-11-2020||Our Correspondent||Bank robbery: 2 brought on production warrant||Tarn Taran, November 18In a 10-month-old bank robbery case, the district police have brought two suspects on production warrants from Amritsar Central Jail.SSP Dhruman H Nimbale said the suspects — Sandeep Kumar, alias Ravi Balachauria of Rampur Bilron (Hoshiarpur), and Arun Kumar, alias Chhurimar of Guruwali (Amritsar) — were brought on production warrants from the jail. They are lodged in the jail for their involvement in cases of robbery and killing.The bank robbery took place on January 17 this year in which six armed miscreants had looted Rs7.5 lakh from the branch of Axis Bank, Thathian Mahantan village, 20 km from here.The police have initiated further interrogation of the accused regarding the robbery.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/bank-robbery-2-brought-on-production-warrant-172305
19-11-2020||---||Scholars divided over birth month of Guru Nanak Dev||Amritsar, November 18Discussing a major controversy about the month of Guru Nanak Dev’s birth, eminent scholar Dr Asa Singh Ghuman released a book “Katak Kay Visakh? Kay Dovain?” here on Wednesday. A discussion was also conducted at Bhai Veer Singh’s residence at Lawrence Road in which scholars and historians threw light on various aspects of history of beliefs about the month of birth of Guru Nanak Dev.Dr Kulwinder Singh Bajwa, former head of history department, Punjabi University, Patiala, said Asa Singh Ghuman gave a deep analysis of “Janam-Sakhis” in his book. He also wrote about the British authors, who gave their opinion about the Sikh history and sacred text. The controversy over the month of Guru Nanak Dev’s birth is not new and Karam Singh historian written a book on it. After several decades, Giani Ishar Singh Naara critiqued the claims of Karm Singh historian in 1970 by writing a book “Vaisakh Nahi Katak Guru Nanak Avtar”. Dr Ghuman threw light on the claims of both writers and then gave the perspective of “Janam Sakhis”.Bajwa stated that Sikhs believe that Guru Nanak was Guru since his birth, while Ghuman gave a new insight that Guru born spiritually after taking dip in “Kali Bein” a rivulet at Sultanpur Lodhi. It would not be acceptable for Sikh masses.Speaking on the occasion, Sikh scholar Inderjit Singh Gogoani said, “The organised religions follow their traditions not opinion of historian. It is one of the opinions that Guru Nanak Dev born in the month of Visakh but Sikhs always celebrates it on full moon (Puranmashi) of Katak. The historians should keep doing researches but not reject the traditions.”Several other scholars gave their opinion on book and discussed the life and history of Guru Nanak Dev on the occasion.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/scholars-divided-over-birth-month-of-guru-nanak-dev-172303
19-11-2020||Our Correspondent||Work on new Patti judicial complex near completion||Tarn Taran, November 18The construction work of the double-storey building of the judicial complex, Patti, is near completion. A sum of Rs12.54 crore is being spent on it. The Patti courts would be shifted here next month (December) after the completion of the construction work.Harminder Singh Gill, MLA, Patti, and Deputy Commissioner Kulwant Singh on Wednesday visited the spot to take stock of the status of the work and held a meeting with officials in this regard. The MLA and the DC said the building would have floor court rooms, library for the judges, a conference hall, Bar room, rooms for the ADAs, judicial service centre, Nazar room and shops in the complex.The DC said the present court complex would be allotted to the Tehsil-level government offices and this way all official services would be provided under the single roof to the residents. The court complex was being built in 64 kanals and six marla land with the four residences for judicial officers.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/work-on-new-patti-judicial-complex-near-completion-172304
19-11-2020||Neeraj Bagga||Play it smart, prioritise Amrisar’s bad stretches, say residents||Tribune News ServiceAMRITSAR, NOVEMBER 18It seems like the ambitious Smart City project is moving at a snail’s pace. Although facades at particular places in the city have been given a facelift but repairing of broken roads is so slow and tardy it bespeaks that authorities’ initiative is still a far-fetched plan.Take for instance the stretch from outside the Hall Gate to the Ghah Mandi via Ram Bagh chowk, it needs to be looked at immediately as potholes are abounding here.Rajwiinder Singh, a commuter It is really dangerous and needs urgent repairs. The commuters can drive safely and the durability of the road will also increase. Thus, the department need not invest in laying it again.From two-wheelers to heavy-duty vehicles, the road witnesses dense traffic every now and then. Yet, it does not figure in the priority list of the concerned government department. Mahesh Mahajan, a shopkeeper, said the stretch was in deplorable condition once it starts from the Bhandari railway overbridge. “Fast moving vehicles coming down from the overbridge are likely to bump into these potholes, which accelerate the disintegration of the road.”As one moves towards Rambagh side the numbers of potholes increases after turning towards Ghah Mandi from Ram Bagh chowk.Rajwiinder Singh, a motorist, adds a word of caution, “It is really dangerous and needs urgent repair. The commuters can drive safely and the durability of the road will also increase. Thus, the department will need not invest in laying it again.”Karamjit Singh Rintu, Mayor, said the concerned wing of the Municipal Corporation (MC) would be asked to do the same soon.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/play-it-smart-prioritise-amrisars-bad-stretches-say-residents-172306
19-11-2020||Tarn Taran||Man killed in road accident||One held with 55-gm heroinTarn Taran: The CIA staff, Patti, recovered 55 gram of heroin from a person and arrested him on Tuesday. The accused has been identified as Arjun Singh of Kulla village. A case under Sections 21, 61, and 85 of the NDPS Act has been registered. OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/man-killed-in-road-accident-172310
19-11-2020||---||Pre-primary schools in Amritsar get Rs 99L as health and hygiene grant||Amritsar, November 18Marking three years of the commencement of pre-primary classes or kindergarten classes in the district, the District Education Department has been given a grant of Rs 99.86 lakh for infrastructural upgrade and improving health and hygiene conditions of the 828 pre-primary schools. The total enrolment in pre-primary schools of the district is 24,386 and for primary classes, i.e. from Classes I to V, is 77,195.Kanwaljit Singh, DEO (Elementary)The amount allotted to each school will be roughly Rs12,000. The schools will be provided with water coolers, dustbins, first-aid kits, garbage bags and contactless sanitizing machines. Basic hygiene equipments, including soap dispensers and getting wall-to-wall matting, will also be done in every school. The move is encouraging as it will help us provide better facilities to students whenever offline classes commenceThe amount received will be spent on equipping each school with post Covid-19 health safety measures and improving overall hygiene. “The amount allotted to each school will be roughly Rs 12,000. The schools will be provided with water coolers, dustbins, first-aid kits, garbage bags and contactless sanitizing machines. Basic hygiene equipments, including soap dispensers and getting wall-to-wall matting, will also be done in every school. The move is encouraging as it will help us provide better facilities to students whenever offline classes commence,” said Kanwaljit Singh, DEO (Elementary). Before this, the Education Department had sanctioned funds for each school running kindergarten for purchasing toys and learning material.The pre-primary classes were started by the government in all elementary schools across the state in 2017 to focus on providing activity-based learning to kids in the 3-6 age group. Since its beginning, the enrolment of kids in pre-primary classes at government elementary schools in the district has been on the rise before the lockdown was announced early this year. Around 17,000 children were enrolled in 2019. This year, as many as 3,800 kids had already been enrolled before the lockdown was announced. Currently, the classes are being held through audio-video mode.Kanwaljit Singh said upgradation of alternative learning tools was also being planned to ensure better learning. “We have been recommending brain booster activities through textbooks and other methods for the kids. Since online classes are going on given Covid-19 situation, we had also trained teachers for imparting digital learning to kids in the 3-6 age group. We share daily slides of activities with them as well,” added the DEO.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/pre-primary-schools-in-amritsar-get-rs-99l-as-health-and-hygiene-grant-172311
19-11-2020||Neeraj Bagga||Going, going, gone! Historic wall around Golden Temple on verge of extinction||Tribune News ServiceAMRITSAR, NOVEMBER 18Even as the government has spruced up a couple of gates to revive their heritage look, but the historic wall around the Golden Temple has almost disappeared. Over 200 years old historical wall around the city struggles to maintain its heritage character. Now, only vestiges can be spotted.Laxmi Kanta Chawla, former minister, Punjab Has the government usurped the historic wall? It may be claiming to elevate the city to a smart one, but the reality is something else. The reality of squalid condition prevailing in the city is visible behind the wall, which is being given a facelift. Many shops have emerged by eliminating the wallLaxmi Kanta Chawla, former Punjab minister, said: “Has the government usurped the historic wall? It may be claiming to elevate the city to a smart one but the reality is something else. The reality of squalid condition prevailing in the city is visible behind the wall, which is being given a facelift. Many shops have emerged by eliminating the wall.”Prof Dr Balvinder Singh, a conservation spatial planner and former head of Guru Ram Das School of Planning of GNDU, said, “No doubt, the wall is in complete neglect, it is encroached, broken from many places and even structures have been erected on it.” He stressed that a solution must be sought with which not only the wall, but also the character of the walled city can be protected. “Short-term solution is to establish Heritage Advisory Committee, Amritsar, on the pattern of Shimla Heritage Advisory Committee,” he suggested.At the same time there is a need to enact ‘Conservation Areas and Listed Buildings Act, Punjab’ on the pattern of British legislation.This can be used for all historic cities if we want to conserve our historic towns for the future generations. Ad hoc approach should be stopped and an integrated conservation plan should be prepared and implemented as per the legislation which is suggested.Maharaja Ranjit Singh took the administrative control of the city in 1804 and started constructing the wall in 1821.With the advice from Mohammad Yar Khan, building officer Ganesha Das initiated the works from Katra Maha Singh. In 1824, Sardar Desa Singh Majithia was deployed as in-charge of the project. Eminent landlord Ramnand (whom Maharaja used to call Baba ji and named a garden after him) gave Rs 7 lakh for it.Even Maharaja Sher Singh granted Rs 5.70 lakh after Maharaja Ranjit Singh’s demise. After getting control of Punjab, the British resumed the work on gates.In 1884, they increased the height of the wall to 12 yards and reshaped the gates and constructed police posts.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/going-going-gone-historic-wall-around-golden-temple-on-verge-of-extinction-172297
19-11-2020||District round-up +ve count 12||Covid-19: 53 test positive, no casualty reported in Amritsar||Recoveries 11,512Active cases 455Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, November 18The district health authorities reported 53 positive cases with which the total count reached 12,442. Luckily, no casualty attributed to Covid-19 was reported.Of these, 33 patients were showing influenza like illness and 20 were the contacts of positive patients.Civil Surgeon Dr Navdeep Singh said with the recovery of nine patients, the recovery count has increased to 11,512. At present, the district has a total of 455 active cases. He said all nine patients were relieved to go home.Covid cases have shown a spike in the recent days. Infections have been rising in several northern states.DC Gurpreet Singh Khaira held a meeting with the Health Department officials and doctors from private hospitals to review arrangements for the second Covid-19 wave.He said in the light of medical experts warning of the second wave in the winter season, the district administration has initiated preparations to meet any exigency. He said the basic structure of the health services was being consolidated and augmented.He asked the health officials to review the basic structures such as control rooms, Covid centres, ambulances and others to remove any discrepancies.The Deputy Commissioner called upon people to adhere to the preventive steps being advertised by the government.He said there was no need to worry as about 2,000 people were being tested daily for Covid-19 and the rate of positive patients was about 2.39 per cent.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/covid-19-53-test-positive-no-casualty-reported-in-amritsar-172298
19-11-2020||---||‘Centre should end economic blockade’||Amritsar, November 18The farmers led by the Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Committee on Wednesday announced that they would move the first batch of farmers to Delhi on November 26 in tractor trolleys to further strengthen the national movement against the farm laws.Sarwan Singh Pandher, a senior leader of the Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Committee, said, “The Central Government’s refusal to allow the dharna in New Delhi is against democracy. The first batch will include farmers of Amritsar and Tarn Taran districts. The state committee in a meeting has decided to start preparations on a war footing for taking out a march to Delhi from November 19 onward.Addressing farmers on the 56th day of the ‘rail roko’ movement at Jandiala Guru, state general secretary Sarwan Singh Pandher and senior leader Harpreet Singh Sidhwan said that the Union Government could not blackmail farmers by running passenger trains under any lame agreement as they were behind the economic blockade of Punjab. The government should end the economic blockade of the state and start goods trains.”Pandher said their organisation would neither cooperate with the joint committee of the Modi government nor will they be part of it. On the occasion, Satnam Singh Manochahal, Resham Singh Ghurkwind, Charan Singh Banka, Lakhwinder Singh Plasour, Satnam Singh Khare, Amrik Singh Jandoke, Sarwan Singh Walipur, Naranjan Singh Bargadi and other leaders were present.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/centre-should-end-economic-blockade-172307
19-11-2020||---||Sikh Sadbhawna group threatens to intensify stir||Amritsar, November 18Sikh Sadbhawna Dal, which contested the SGPC for its alleged leniency in missing Guru Granth Sahib ‘saroops’, has given a call to the Sikh community to gather on December 6 at the Heritage Street leading to the Golden Temple.The organisation’s head Baldev Singh Wadala said the Akal Takht and the SGPC under the influence of Badal clan have been brushing aside the missing saroops’ issue, whereas the Sikh community has all rights to know the whereabouts of the 328 saroops and on whose instance the holy scriptures were issued in an unauthorised manner.“We have been staging a protest on the Heritage Street for a fortnight and call the Sikh panth to join our protest, so that Capt Amarinder-led state government wakes up from its deep slumber. We will intensify our agitation ahead,” he said.Dal Khalsa slams SGPC functioningOn the other hand, the Dal Khalsa took a jibe at Akal Takht officiating Jathedar’s directions to the SAD to adopt ‘Panthic’ path.Dal Khalsa president Harpal Singh Cheema said the Jathedar has candidly admitted that the SAD, led by Sukhbir Singh Badal, was not ‘Panthic’ as of now when he advised them to begin their journey from Punjab to Panth.He said the entire show at 100 years’ celebrations of the SGPC was captured by the Badal faction entirely giving a miss to splinter Akali groups. As per the Jathedar’s version, the Akali Dal led by the Badals is the son of the SGPC, but he remained silent on splinter Akali factions. “At least the Jathedar should have acknowledged that they, too, are the sons of SGPC, so what if they are foster sons,” he said.Analysing the performance of the present house of the SGPC since 2011, he said the mushrooming of heretical cults, pardoning of dera head, inept handling of sacrilege cases and 328 missing saroops have eclipsed the institution.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/sikh-sadbhawna-group-threatens-to-intensify-stir-172308
19-11-2020||---||Remove illegal structures, IDH market shopkeepers in Amritsar told||Amritsar, November 18The estate and town planning wings of the municipal corporation have asked the shopkeepers of IDH market and Shaheed Bhagat Singh market near the bus stand to remove their temporary and permanent structures like tin sheds or canopies on their own otherwise the MC will demolish them.Goods of encroachers seizedSushant Bhatia, Estate Officer, Municipal Corporation, on Wednesday said a large number of shopkeepers and all blocks of the IDH and Shaheed Bhagat Singh markets had encroached upon the government land by setting up sheds and canopies. The land worth crores is being used by the traders illegally. Despite the warning, the shopkeepers did not remove the encroachments from the markets. “We have discussed the issue with MC Commissioner Komal Mittal who asked us to take joint action and remove all temporary and permanent encroachments in these markets,” said Bhatia.Earlier, the MC had planned action in March this year but due to the outbreak of the Covid-19 pandemic it could not be carried out.Sushant Bhatia,Estate Officer, Municipal CorporationA large number of shopkeepers and all blocks of the IDH and Shaheed Bhagat Singh markets had encroached upon the government land by setting up sheds and canopies. The land worth crores is being used by the traders illegally. Despite the warning, the shopkeepers did not remove the encroachments from the markets.Officials of the estate office said they had also asked the vendors on Batala Road and Hukam Singh Road to shift their kiosks under the BRTS elevated road and alongside the power grid. “There are a total of 90 vends on Batala Road. We have designated some properties to accommodate them under the Street Vending Zones. We will not allow anyone to encroach upon roads,” said the estate officer.Various teams of the estate office seized goods of many encroachers having shops along Hukam Singh Road, IDH Market, Mall Road Heritage Street and Batala Road.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/remove-illegal-structures-idh-market-shopkeepers-in-amritsar-told-172309
