25-11-2020||---||On a mission to beautify city’s green lungs||Amritsar, November 24A group of friends are out to beautify public parks in the city. They are planning to plant 10,000 flowering plants in different parks. Already into philanthropic work through the NGO, the Just Sewa Society had planted 270 flower saplings in a park recently.Harsimran Singh of the Just Sewa Society says, “We hope to finish the work this season. Most parks in city have trees, but they lack flower varieties which bloom in winters.” He said they would also encourage the residents of the areas to take the responsibility of the upkeep of the plants.Singh said they prepared nursery of flower plants at public parks and have hired two persons to take care of saplings. “We also devote time for the care of plants but a full-time gardener can do more justice to it,” he said, adding that caring for plants in such a large numbers is time consuming work.An advocate by profession, Harsimran said they had sourced saplings from far off nurseries as local nurseries had not prepared many plants in view of the restrictions due to the lockdown. “We have also tied up with a local nursery which provides saplings at half the market rate to us,” he said.Harsimran said with not many people having ample space at their homes to create green corners, the public parks are a big advantage in such areas. He added that during their earlier campaigns they had planted large trees. “With many other NGO and even residents turning conscious towards the need to grow trees, we have shifted our focus a little to flower plants,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/on-a-mission-to-beautify-citys-green-lungs-175292
25-11-2020||---||Surge in infections: 405 new cases in just 8 days||Amritsar, November 24While the district administration and health authorities have started preparing in anticipation of a second wave of the Covid-19 outbreak, general public seems to have lowered the guard and hardly follow the health guidelines. Minister OP Soni tests positive, 59 new cases reported in districtA look at the number of cases being reported daily reveals that there has been a surge in infections. The district reported 50 new cases on an average in the last eight days. In total, the health authorities reported 405 new cases from November 17 to date.In comparison, the district had reported 447 new cases from November 1 to November 16. While the spread of infection is on the rise, residents can be seen without masks and not practising social distancing at public places and markets. The authorities said they were looking into improving the shortcomings before the second wave hits.Amristar Deputy Commissioner Gurpreet Singh Khaira asked the health authorities for better coordination between rapid response system and Covid Care Centre.The Deputy Commissioner said, “Private hospitals have been asked to furnish the details of patients, beds and infrastructure available with them to the administration.”He said mobile vans were being used to increase testing in different areas of the city. Khaira said people should take precautions while stepping out and should avoid unnecessary movement.The health authorities said number of deaths had witnessed significant fall during the last two months due to better management of services.Meanwhile, the authorities reported only 24 deaths in November so far, as compared to 86 in October and 203 deaths in September.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/surge-in-infections-405-new-cases-in-just-8-days-175293
25-11-2020||Our Correspondent||DC office staffer among two booked||Tarn Taran, November 24The police have booked two persons for allegedly preparing fake arms licences.The accused have been identified as Karwinder Singh Cheema, and Manjinder Mani, who is an arms dealer and a resident of Pandori Gola village.Ironically, Cheema has been posted at the Arms Branch of the Deputy Commissioner’s Office.A case under the Arms Act has been registered against the duo for preparing around 200 fake arms licences on the basis of forged documents in the last couple of years. The police officials said more heads were likely to roll.The police claimed Cheema and Mani used to take Rs 30,000 to Rs 50,000 for making an illegal arms licence.Cheema was booked by the police under the similar offence around six years ago as well. The then Deputy Commissioner Balwinder Singh Dhaliwal had marked a probe to the then Additional Deputy Commissioner Bakhtawar Singh, who had found gross irregularities in functioning of the Arms Branch.It was found that a fake arms licence was issued to Jaspal Singh of Bhikhiwind for Rs 30,000. After the issue was highlighted, a ‘fire’ incident was reported in the Arms Branch in which official records got burnt and an inquiry was marked to find the reason behind the fire.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/dc-office-staffer-among-two-booked-175294
25-11-2020||Charanjit Singh Teja||Amritsar MC targets ‘weekly bazaars’, seizes goods, beds of vendors||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, November 24The Municipal Corporation’s crackdown on “weekly bazaars” continued on the second consecutive day.The MC seized goods and beds from the Mall Road. Officials of the estate wing of civic body said these weekly bazaars were being run by mafia and mushrooming in the city.Earlier, “Som Bazaar” used to be set up near Mahan Singh Gate every Monday. Now, more than six such bazaars were being set up throughout the week.Two separate bazaars had been organised at the Mall Road and the Queen’s Road on Sunday. Markets where shopkeepers shut their shops on Monday also turn into Som Bazaar.Such weekly bazaars can be seen at IDH Market, Saheedan Sahib Area and Chheharta. A permanent market has been set up at the Railway Link Road.Targeting people from economically weaker sections and migrant workers, vendors use folding beds to sell goods. Officials claimed that most vendors in these bazaars were migrants.Estate Officer Sushant Bhatia said, “Earlier, such markets were set up on one or two roads. Now, they are hindering traffic movement. We were soft towards vendors as they were from poor backgrounds. We found that these markets are being run by mafia. Some influential persons invest in these markets and earn good profit. So, we have initiated a drive against weekly bazaars and seized goods.”Officlas from the estate wing claimed influential persons were approaching them to release their goods. Though the estate wing has waked up from a deep slumber and initiated action, but the police have failed to act against vendors who set up the bazzar outside the Police Commissioner’s Office on the Mall Road.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/amritsar-mc-targets-weekly-bazaars-seizes-goods-beds-of-vendors-175295
25-11-2020||---||Man held for stealing iron grills||Amritsar, November 24  The Chheharta police have arrested a person for allegedly stealing iron grills installed on the Bus Rapid Transit System (BRTS) corridor.  The accused has been identified as Pankaj Rampal, alias Gajju, of Jawahar Nagar, Chheharta. He was travelling on a goods carrier, which had the stolen iron grills. According to the police, the accused was intercepted on Amritsar-Chheharta bypass chowk. Rampal was booked on the charge of theft and Prevention of Damage to Public Property Act. In March 2019, the police had arrested Palwinder Singh of Khasa Colony, and Gurwinder Singh of Khurmanian village, for the similar offence. Iron grills installed on the BRTS corridor had gone missing from different parts of the city, especially between Putlighar Chowk and Chheharta in the last four years.  The PWD and the Municpal Corporation authorities had asked the police for taking stern action against unscrupulous elements involved in stealing of iron grills from the BRTS corridor.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/man-held-for-stealing-iron-grills-175296
25-11-2020||Amritsar||Ex-diplomat: Tolerance key to creating peace, harmony||GNDU celebrated its 51st Foundation Day by hosting an online interaction with former diplomats Navdeep Singh Suri and Dr Jogishwer Singh. Both addressed the inaugural ceremony of the foundation day celebrations, speaking about the need for an inclusive and harmonious global community.  Navdeep Suri, who was the former ambassador to Egypt and UAE and an alumnus of GNDU, said: “The world is suffering with so many ailments such as discrimination, racism, gender inequality, which is only because of intolerance. So many centuries ago, Guru Nanak Dev, in the name of which this Guru Nanak Dev University has been founded, gave the message of universal brotherhood which says that all human beings are equal irrespective of their caste, creed and religion.”  While talking about recent events and the debate on the social media being misused for spreading intolerance, he said responsibility and ethics should be kept in mind while using social media. ‘We must learn to keep balance between freedom of religion and freedom of expression as leaders. Even countries such as UAE is becoming more tolerant and giving ample liberties to its citizens,” he added. He also mentioned the history of Amritsar, a city that witnessed multiple tragedies in the last century. “My grandfather Nanak Singh, who was a witness to the Jallianwala Bagh tragedy, in his acclaimed poetry, always spoke about the collective celebrations of Janamashtami by Sikhs, Hindus and Muslims,” he said.  This programme was streamed live on various social media platforms to engage a global alumni. The second academic lecture was delivered by eminent scholar, Dr. Jogishwar Singh, IAS (Retd.), Ex-Managing Director at Edmond de Rothschild, Geneva, Switzerland.  While speaking on subject of ‘Teachings of Sri Guru Nanak Dev and its relevance’, Jogisher Singh said that politics should be based on ethics. He said whatever is happening these days is giving a wrong impression of our country. He encouraged students to raise questions and ask for accountability. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/ex-diplomat-tolerance-key-to-creating-peace-harmony-175297
25-11-2020||---||Amritsar schools get Rs 60L to give a boost to sports infra||Amritsar, November 24 The District Education Office has received a grant of Rs 60 lakh for sports development for primary and middle schools. The department has issued instructions to all schools on how the funds are to be spent on buying sports goods and ground maintenance, though this time there is a minor relaxation in the time period allotted for using the funds.  Each primary school will receive an amount of Rs 5,000 and each middle school will receive an amount of Rs 10,000 for buying sports goods and equipment. There are 829 primary schools and 193 middle schools in the district.  “We get grant under sports development every year and this year, though delayed, the grant amount has been released to us. Given the circumstance post-pandemic and schools being shut for primary and upper primary classes, we have put no time restriction in the schools to spend the amount granted,” said Rekha Mahajan, Deputy DEO.  The amount allotted to each school has to be used within 15 days of receiving the money. “The students are not coming to schools, so the schools have been advised to manage the funds in a way that they don’t go waste,” said Mahajan.  The grant allotted under sports development to each school every year is on an average of Rs 10,000 per school. Last year, the District Education Department received the grant under sports development twice. But this year, owing to the pandemic and lockdown, the funds had got delayed. The total grant for primary schools allotted is Rs 41 lakh and for middle schools is Rs 19 lakh.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/amritsar-schools-get-rs-60l-to-give-a-boost-to-sports-infra-175298
25-11-2020||Neeraj Bagga||Passengers inconvenienced as trains diverted via Tarn Taran||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, November 24Over 400 passengers of the 09025 Bandra Terminus-Amritsar were inconvenienced as their train arrived three hours behind the schedule at the Amritsar railway station on Tuesday owing to the blockade by the Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Committee (KSMC) members at the Jandiala Guru railway station. Alighting at the Amritsar railway station, passengers sounded perturbed over unnecessary long travel and stoppage from the Beas due to the agitation. What perturbed them further was the 40-minute further delay in replacing the electric engine with diesel one as the rail section via Tarn Taran did not have an electric line.“The blockade unnecessarily prolonged the journey ordeal which involves a travel of nearly 1,864 km,” said Abhishek, who has business ties in Mumbai. “The government and farmers must sit together to find a solution. Why put the common public at ransom without any fault of their?” he asked. Mahinder Singh, a resident of Ajnala, who was coming from Delhi, said his father was into farming as it was their ancestral vocation. “Agitators must find a suitable way to protest which does not inconvenience common people. The matter concerns the Union Government and agitators must employ peaceful and effective means to alert them of their demand.”              Manmohan Singh, a senior citizen from Bhakna village on the Amritsar-Attari GT Road, said he had gone to meet his son employed with a private bank in Mumbai in March. First Covid-19 induced restrictions and now agitation by farmers held him back to return to his native place. He said the Union Government must lend an ear to the agitating farmers as the farming laws were enacted for this section only. Farmers should have been taken into confidence, he said. Prabhjot Singh, a passenger, said the railways offered good service during the journey but about 40 minutes were consumed in replacing the electric engine with diesel one. The district administration arranged tea and biscuits for the passengers at the departure lounge of the railway station. Rajesh Aggarwal, Divisional Railway Manager, said the alternate route via Beas, Tarn Taran and Bhagtanwala has single line section, where train cannot be operated beyond 50 km per hour speed. Besides, it does not have power supply cable, whereas the Amritsar railway station was well connected with power lines. So, the Railways had to cancel trains to decrease load on the section. Three passenger and equal number of freight trains arrived at the local railway station.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/passengers-inconvenienced-as-trains-diverted-via-tarn-taran-175299
25-11-2020||Slug||Demolishing ‘illegal’ hotel: Amritsar MC action is ‘mere eyewash’||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, November 24A team of the Municipal Town Planning wing of the MC, tasked with demolishing an “illegal” hotel in Partap Gali (Hathi Khana), did a mere eyewash exercise on Tuesday as civic body employees removed just a few plates of shuttering and came back.The hotel building was illegally constructed in a narrow lane. The building owner had reportedly completed three-storey building during the lockdown imposed in the wake of the covid-19 outbreak.The MTP wing of the MC had sealed the building in March.Complainant, Rakesh Gupta, said, the hotel was being constructed on a 3-ft narrow lane and It’s a serious violation of the building bylaws.After a fresh complaint, the MTP wing led by Building Inspector Paramjit Singh removed shuttering plates today.MC Commissioner Komal Mittal assured the complainant that they would file a complaint against the building owner for breaking the seal and get a police case registered against him.It is pertinent to mention that the Punjab and Haryana High Court had imposed a ban on construction of buildings around the Golden Temple in the walled city area in 2012. Despite ban, around 500 hotels were constructed.Without taking care of fire safety norms, hoteliers constructed multi-storey buildings in narrow streets near the Golden Temple.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/demolishing-illegal-hotel-amritsar-mc-action-is-mere-eyewash-175300
25-11-2020|| ||Teesha, Ishaan emerge winners in ‘Crisis Averted Competition’||Amritsar, November 24A team of Spring Dale Senior School comprising Teesha Kapoor of Class XII and Ishaan Marwaha of Class XI emerged as the winners in the ‘Crisis Averted Competition’ in the first edition of SFHS Communique - 2020. This first national-level business and commerce conclave was organised virtually by Strawberry Fields High School, Chandigarh. Rajiv Kumar Sharma, principal, Spring Dale Senior School shared that they secured the first position out of 34 participants from 16 top national schools including Scottish High School, Gurugram, Indian School , New Delhi , and several others. “The team represented top level management and was put under different crisis situations. They competed in three rounds in which they found practical solutions to the finance, marketing and personnel management problems of business and industry. They emerged as future lead managers with their out of the box thinking and rational decision-making,” shared Sharma.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/teesha-ishaan-emerge-winners-in-crisis-averted-competition-175304
