26-11-2020||Amritsar||Covid spike sends shockwaves through ailing hospitality sector||A surge in Covid infections in the district and rapid increase in number of positive cases in neighbouring states would impact marriages and traders once again in the region. The marriage season has commenced with high expectations for those associated with it directly or indirectly. However, traders were keenly watching turn of events after the Covid-19’s second wave hit New Delhi.3 succumb, 62 new casesEarlier, the government had allowed a gathering of 100 people during an event, but this norm was not being followed by masses.Marriages directly infuse liquidity in various businesses, including clothes, jewellery, beauty and dairy products, besides artists, cooks, florists and electricians, among others. However, people involved in this trade said their earnings would be hit if the Centre and state government impose new set of restrictions at this point.Piyush Kapoor, who is a manager at a hotel, said there would be untold problems in operating businesses as booking amount for banquets were paid in advance.He said number of marriages being organised in the city were higher than the last season. “It was due to the lockdown imposed in the wake of the Covid-19. Later, the government capped the number of visitors to 50. The marriage season will last till next month,” he said.Taking a cue from the rising graph of Covid-19 positive cases and casualties in Delhi, the state government has decided to impose restrictions.APS Chatha, chief, Amritsar Hotel and Restaurant Association, said, “I am putting up at New Delhi for the last one week and the situation is alarming. It takes around 10 hours to cremate a body at electric crematorium.” He urged the residents and banquet owners to follow the health guidelines issued by the government in order to tackle the pandemic.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/covid-spike-sends-shockwaves-through-ailing-hospitality-sector-175980
26-11-2020||Amritsar||Faux pas leaves police embarrassed||In a major goof-up, name of dismissed Sub-Inspector Sandeep Kaur, who had been charged with double murder and lodged in the jail, featured in a transfer list.The list had been undersigned by the Inspector General of Police, Border Range, on November 24. Directions for transfers were issued by the Director General of Police on July 3. However, the orders were implemented on Tuesday.In the list of 42 Sub-Inspectors, Sandeep’s name appeared on 21st position and she had been transferred from the Rural police to the Amritsar City police. Inspector General (Border Range) SPS Parmar said, “The list was not checked by me. I will go through it and amend it. It happens when some suspension orders are issued at the district level after preparation of the transfer list. We will amend the list.”It is pertinent to mention that the dismissed SI was held in double murder case last month. Perturbed over harassment and blackmailing, jeweller Vikramjit Singh had committed suicide in a hotel on October 10. The same day, his wife also ended her life at her residence in Nawapind village on Mehta Road. He had left a suicide note, video and audio messages before ending his life and accused Sandeep of extorting Rs 18 lakh from him.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/faux-pas-leaves-police-embarrassed-175981
26-11-2020||Amritsar||Ex-Civil Surgeon appears before women panel||The Punjab State Commission for Women has started probe into the incident involving a video that was shot inside the operation theatre with senior health official and other gynaecologists conducting a C-section.The commission had conducted an inquiry into the incident by summoning the department employees to Chandigarh on November 24. Sources said Dr Navdeep Singh, who was the Civil Surgeon then, along with other gynaecologists present in the operation theatre, appeared before the commission on Wednesday as well. They said the officials have again been summoned on Thursday.The commission had on November 18 issued a show-cause notice to Dr Navdeep Singh and others for violating the privacy of a female patient. The department had on November 17, issued a press release along with a video and pictures to highlight the efforts of Dr Navdeep, who in addition to performing his administrative duties was performing clinical duties as well.Normally, Civil Surgeon’s do not perform clinical duties. The purpose of the press note was to publicise the efforts of Dr Navdeep, who now has been transferred out by the department after the Women Commission took notice. The department had appointed Dr Rabinder Singh Sethi as the new Civil Surgeon two days ago. Dr Navdeep, himself a gynaecologist, had been frequently performing surgeries at the Civil Hospital prior to getting involved in the ongoing controversy.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/ex-civil-surgeon-appears-before-women-panel-175982
26-11-2020||AMRITSAR||PNB branch at Butala functions at snail’s pace||Manjit Singh, a resident of Butala village, left behind his farming and domestic work to stand in the serpentine queue out of the PNB’s branch in the village.“Banking work is very important as it concerns advance taken from the bank but at the same time fields need to be attended for the next crop,” he said.He had visited the branch last week. However, seeing the long queue he abandoned the plan to stand which would have cost him other works dear. So today, he came early in the morning to get the work done. He felt that it would still take at least two to three hours for his turn to come.His is not the only such case — account holders of about 22 villages are complaining of long processing work and queues to negotiate for their banking work. The residents have even shot off a communique to the bank authorities seeking end to the problem of long waiting period at the bank branch. They stated that “the staff strength in the bank’s branch is insufficient and creates difficulties for the account holders”. The people come at 5 am yet they have to wait till evening. Many even closed their accounts and shifted it to the branch of a private bank. The picture is clear — more staff is needed at the PNB’s branch in Butala village for the convenience of the natives.The branch is not an ordinary one as its annual turnover stands at Rs130 crore and the number of account holders are close to 34,000. The working of the branch was hit after two officials were transferred. This put tremendous pressure on the remaining staff compelling them to put several workers on the back burner. Being the only state-run bank in the cluster of 22 villages, it deals with disbursement of all kinds of central and state government grants concerning banking.Ranjit Singh, circle head, PNB, said two replacements, including an officer and a clerk, have been approved for the branch and they would join within a week.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/pnb-branch-at-butala-functions-at-snails-pace-175983
26-11-2020||Amritsar||Life is going out of rhythm for him||His dhol beats are known to lift spirits, pumping energy and entertainment at almost every high-profile wedding event in city. But post-lockdown, Manjit Singh’s dhol has been quiet for most of the days. Struggling to find consistent events and weddings to perform, life for the artiste has changed completely.“I used to perform round the year, at weddings, corporate events, government sponsored events, festivals and other occasions. There was no dearth of work. Now, there has been 70 per cent drop in bookings as there are no events or weddings happening,” the 35-year-old says, who comes from a family of traditional Punjabi dhol artistes. “It’s not just the case with dholis, but every folk artiste or performer is considering changing profession as survival has become impossible,” he adds.Working with a team of 25 dholis, Manjit shares that with limited events and weddings happening, he is only able to provide livelihood to two or three. “There is no demand. Also, payments are not being made in time or sometimes we have to be satisfied with what we are paid as financial distress has affected our income. Earlier, we used to get earn anything between Rs1,000 and 5,000 per performance. Now, anything that comes our way is welcomed,” he tells.His day begins with enquiring for work, while he contemplates changing profession. “I have been performing for the last 25 years. Every day I meet people; try to find out if there is any event we can perform at. I have been supported by a few.” When luck is on his side, he is booked for an event or two, but mostly, his days are spent hoping for things to get normal again.Most musicians in the state have either changed profession, or are struggling to survive on bare minimum. He blames the lack of any revival support from the government for the gloomy state of affairs. “The government should have provided some relief or support to such people, whose livelihoods were completely rooted out due to the pandemic,” Manjit says. One of his brothers, who’s a professional photographer, is also not having a good time these days. “I have been getting some work since the wedding events started. But things are not the same…at least for now,” he signs off.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/life-is-going-out-of-rhythm-for-him-175984
26-11-2020||Amritsar||Partition Museum shortlisted for international tourism award||A month after receiving an award from a UK-based foundation Museums + Heritage; the Partition Museum has now been shortlisted for the award ‘Best Wider World Tourism Project’ by the British Guild of Travel Writers’ (BGTW) International Tourism Awards 2020. The British Guild of Travel Writers is a community of more than 250 accredited writers, photographers, bloggers and broadcasters. Recognising excellence in tourism projectsThe BGTW International Tourism Awards are the ones that recognise excellence in tourism projects in the UK and across the world that members of the BGTW have visited in the course of their travels and which they believe deserve wider recognition. The Partition Museum was nominated by travel writer, editor and BGTW member Meera Dattani.The Partition Museum houses one of the largest collections of the Partition memorabilia in the form of objects, oral histories, documents, and archival and personal photographs. Since its opening, the museum has received more than half a million visitors and five national and international awards for excellence.Commenting on the museum, Meera Dattani said, “India was my last trip before the pandemic and lockdown put an end to our travels. I visited Amritsar and Punjab for the first time in March 2020 and I wanted to visit the Partition Museum ever since it opened. It’s an incredible effort, a truly pioneering place in the heart of Amritsar, as the first museum in the world to document the largest mass migration in human history. Millions were killed and displaced in 1947 after India was crudely separated into two countries, India and Pakistan, and eventually three with Bangladesh, following independence from Britain and the Empire.”Mallika Ahluwalia, CEO and Curator of the Partition Museum, Founder Trustee of The Arts and Cultural Heritage Trust, too shared her excitement over the nomination. “We are so honoured at being shortlisted for this award. We hope that more visitors from round the world will visit the museum to learn about one of the most defining events in the subcontinent’s history. Being a people’s museum, we continue to record, remember and preserve stories of the Partition survivors, and we request them and their family members to continue sharing their memories with us.” Winners will be announced on March 21next year in London.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/partition-museum-shortlisted-for-international-tourism-award-175985
26-11-2020||Sher Singh of Kot Budha village (Patti) and Jatinder Singh of Mundapind village (Chohla Sahib) is a role model for farming community. They have been motivating compatriots of many other villages to adopt the process of managing crop residue for sustainable and profitable farming. The farmers have been honored at a national-level conference held at Patna Sahib (Bihar) on managing crop residues. They were also invited to the conference on the recommendation of the Krishi Vigyan Kendra (KVK)||2 farmers who are a role model for community||Scholar to research on golden agers’ mindsetMonica Sangar, a nursing tutor from DMC Ludhiana, has expressed desire to research on accessing positivity among the inmates of Bhai Veer Singh Birdh Ghar, Tarn Taran, and inmates of Sri Ram Leprosy Colony, Tarn Taran. Monica was in Tarn Taran to know the first-hand information on the living conditions of the golden agers and the lepers. A postgraduate in nursing, she collected a total of 200 samples adults residing in rural and urban areas. Her findings revealed that majority of the adults had favourable attitude towards organ donation and were willing to donate their organs to save others’ life. Her article was published in the International Journal of scientific research (index journal) in June 2020, volume 9. She was also awarded an appreciation letter by the editorial staff of the journal. According to her preliminary study regarding the senior citizens, about 33 per cent of inmates above the age of 70 years always think positively and were eager to remain active to live a better life. She was also working to assess the psychological problems related to unemployment among people during the pandemic.Is anybody out there to end their woes?Perhaps there was no one to listen to the woes of 65-year-old Baljit Singh, son of Mohinder Singh, resident of Lohar (Khadoor Sahib), Tarn Taran, like many more. He is seen standing regularly outside the District Social Security (DSS) office to inquire information regarding his approved pension. The office of the DSS, as per the pension form of Baljit submitted to the department allotted the PLA number for the financial assistance to be paid to him in December 2019. Baljit has been waiting for the pension for last one year. “Whenever I visit the office of the DSS, the man sitting at the office room advises me to inquire from the bank. The bank officials say the pension has not been delivered to them,” he said. He alleged that an employee of the DSS office even asked for a bribe to settle all things. Gurbhej Singh, a former sarpanch of Plasaur village and social worker, said that hundreds of the actual beneficiaries have been trying for months but there was no one to redress their grievances. He demanded a probe in the functioning of the office of the DSS.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/2-farmers-who-are-a-role-model-for-community-175987
26-11-2020||AMRITSAR||Commuters stranded again as farmers continue to protest||Five trains departed and one arrived at the Amritsar Railway station on Wednesday.All trains used Amritsar-Tarn Taran-Beas route for the journey. The departed trains included 02716 Sachkhand Express, 02926 Paschim Express, 4650 Amritsar-Jaynagar Express and 09026 Amritsar-Bandra Terminus chugged out of their scheduled time from the local railway station.The sole arrival train was 02903 Mumbai Central-Amritsar Express special. As per the schedule, two trains will arrive and depart from the local station on Thursday.Earlier on Tuesday, the train movement resumed at the local railway station here, 62 days after the rail blockade imposed by the farmers’ organisations.Due to the farmers’ agitation, the railway authorities cancelled the scheduled run of New Jalpaiguri-Amritsar Express for November 27.Detail of diverted trains include 02904 Amritsar-Mumbai Central Express special, 02903 Mumbai Central-Amritsar Express special JCO, the 04650/74 Amritsar-Jaynagar Express special and 04649/73 Jaynagar-Amritsar Express special were diverted to run via Beas-Tarn Taran-Amritsar.Following trains will be short terminated and originated. These trains are 08237 Korba-Amritsar Express will be short terminated at Ambala on November 25. Consequently, the 08238 Amritsar-Korba Express will short originate from Ambala on November 27 and will remain partially cancelled between Ambala-Amritsar-Ambala.The 02715 Nanded-Amritsar Express was short terminated in New Delhi. Consequently, the 02716 Amritsar-Nanded Express will short originate from New Delhi on November 27 and will remain partially cancelled between New Delhi-Amritsar-New Delhi.The 02925 Bandra Terminus-Amritsar Express was short terminated at Chandigarh. Consequently, the 02926 Amritsar-Bandra Terminus express will short originate from Chandigarh on November 27 and will remain partially cancelled between Chandigarh-Amritsar-Chandigarh. The 04652 Amritsar-Jaynagar will short originate from Ambala and remain partially cancelled between Ambala and Amritsar on November 27.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/commuters-stranded-again-as-farmers-continue-to-protest-175988
26-11-2020||---||GNDU staff body discusses demands||Amritsar, November 25The general body meeting of Guru Nanak Dev University Non-Teaching Employees Association (GNDUNTEA) was conducted on Wednesday. Secretary, GNDUNTEA, Rajneesh Bhardwaj, while addressing the meeting, read out the memorandum that includes restoration of old pension scheme, regular recruitment on vacant non-teaching posts, regularisation of outsourcing and fixed staff.He also said protest to be initiated for Grade 1 and Grade 2 provision for promotion of supervisors and personal assistants, a demand that had been pending since long with the GNDU authorities.Other issues discussed during the meeting were implementation of promotional channels for staff of various departments, reinstatement of reverse employees, immediate awarding of jobs on compassionate basis, calculation of probation period in service and implementation of more convenient health insurance. The newly elected panel of executive members of Non-Teaching Association elected for the year 2020-21 addressed the meeting as well.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/gndu-staff-body-discusses-demands-175989
26-11-2020||Amritsar||Char Bagh is all about wild grass & concrete jungle||Though huge amount of money had been spent on renovation of Char Bagh inside the Company Bagh, the former is still in a shambles. Wild growth has taken over fountains near statue of Maharaja Ranjit Singh and around the outer wall. Spot behind the statue has been used to burn dry leaves and grass.Earlier, the government had initiated a project to revive Char Bagh, but the project got stalled as buildings of illegal private clubs created hurdles.A daily visitor, Sukhwant Singh, said, “Over the years, Char Bagh has been converted into a jungle of concrete. After new government is formed, politicians launch projects and forget the old ones. The bagh needs landscaping and not bricks.”With a maximum area of Char Bagh under the control of the three clubs apart from the Municipal Corporation running its offices, a big chunk of portion had been leased to a private firm for running a fun park for children. Last year, much to the annoyance of visitors, a plot was given to the NGO for growing vegetables.The concrete pathways and parking lots had eaten up the green cover. With no other green belt in the vicinity, Char Bagh remains the only option for residents. Another visitor, Ram Verma, said, “Seriousness of the administration can be gauged from the fact that trash is scattered around urinals. This place is not just a park, but a historical monument, which needs to be taken care of.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/char-bagh-is-all-about-wild-grass-concrete-jungle-175990
26-11-2020||Ruchika M Khanna||Rs 2.6-crore paddy missing in Amritsar, 2 officials suspended||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, November 25A district manager and an inspector of the mandi have been placed under suspension after paddy worth Rs 2.69 crore purchased by Punsup was found missing from the stocks at Chheharta town in Amritsar.This is the first major case detected by the state government where bogus billing for paddy on a huge stock has been found.Punsup MD Dilraj Sandhawalia confirmed that district manager Bandeep Singh and inspector Sukhdeep Singh had been placed under suspension and action against errant rice mills would be initiated.The anomaly has been found during a random physical verification of stocks in mandi and in rice mills where the paddy purchased is sent for milling. The stocks are being checked across all mandis in the state as the amount of paddy procured by government agencies in Punjab has exceeded the paddy production for this ongoing season.Official sources told The Tribune that the officials could not account for 38,000 bags of paddy, which were shown to have been purchased from farmers. These bags, each having 37.50 kg paddy, have been shown to be purchased by Punsup for Rs 2.69 crore, allegedly through bogus bills.A senior official in the department said the two officials had been claiming that the “missing bags” were in transit. It is apprehended that cheaper paddy from other states would be bought and shown as the paddy purchased on minimum support price from farmers.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/rs-2-6-crore-paddy-missing-in-amritsar-2-officials-suspended-175803
