28-11-2020||Amritsar||Three succumb, 68 fresh cases||Two booked for abducting teensTarn Taran: The police booked two persons for abducting two teenage sisters here on Friday. Daughters of a Patti resident, the girls were abducted by two workers of a brick kiln at Assal village on the pretext of marriage a week ago. The police said here on Friday that the accused had been identified as Sukhdev Singh and Toti, both residents of Patti town. The father of the victims in his statement to the police stated that the accused had abducted his daughters on the pretext of marrying them a week ago. The accused have been booked under Sections 363 and 366-A of the IPC by the Patti police. ocNewborn found abandoned diesAmritsar: The parents of a newborn baby boy abandoned him at Guru Nanak Dev hospital after getting him admitted here for treatment. Sources in the hospital stated that a person who claimed to be the father of the newborn brought him to the hospital on Tuesday. The person allegedly did not return after getting the newborn admitted in the paediatric department. The child was born to a woman of Mianwind village and doctors had reportedly referred the child to GNDH as he was experiencing breathing problem. The child could not be saved in spite of treatment. OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/three-succumb-68-fresh-cases-177037
28-11-2020||---||Resident alleges inaction against illegal gym||Amritsar, November 27A resident, struggling against illegal gym in the residential area on Sultanwind road, alleged inaction by police and MC authorities. Despite MC Commissioner’s letter to Police Commissioner, no action has been initiated in this regard till date.The MC Commissioner Komal Mittal had written a letter to the Commissioner of Police to register an FIR against the gym owner for breaking the seal. Police Commissioner marked the letter to the concerned police station but no action has been taken so far.Complainant Sukhwant Singh, a resident of Jaspal Nagar, said on his repeated complaints against the illegal gym named ‘Addiction’ in the residential locality, the MC Commissioner asked to police department and the PSPCL to take action.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/resident-alleges-inaction-against-illegal-gym-177033
28-11-2020||Keeping in view the rise in Covid positive cases||Wear masks to save yourself from covid||Dera Baba Nanak readies for big celebrationsThe border township of Dera Baba Nanak, which is seeped in a rich tapestry of Sikh history, was the cynosure of all eyes in November last year when the 4.6-km long Kartarpur corridor was dedicated to the public by PM Narendra Modi. That occasion also marked the commencement of the 550th birth anniversary celebrations of the founder of Sikhism Guru Nanak Dev. Once again the spotlight is on the city now because a mega-event is being held on November 30 to mark the conclusion of the year-long celebrations. Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh has invited former PM Dr Manmohan Singh and a galaxy of other dignitaries including the Governors of both Punjab and Haryana. However, keeping in view the ongoing pandemic, it remains in the realms of speculation if these VIPs actually mark their presence or not. Local MLA and Cabinet minister Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa has presided over a series of meetings. These confabulations will go on till November 29, a day before the celebrations kick off. BSF officials are busy trying to re-install the high resolution binoculars near the corridor. The binoculars had been there since 2006 but were dismantled by the Land Ports Authority of India (LPAI) in the wake of the construction of the corridor. The CM has expressed a desire to view the Kartarpur shrine, located across the border, through the binoculars. On a clear, azure day the gurdwara can be seen even through the naked eye but when the weather turns rough it can be viewed only through a binoculars. The security is being looked after by cops of the Batala police district. Randhawa, who is heading the organising committee, said he and his men were praying that everything goes according to plan. “We hope the weather does not turn foggy. We pray that all the VIPs who have been invited actually turn up and grace the pious occasion with their presence. We also hope the second wave of Covid does not come into the way. We have done all the hard work and now we can only pray. God is the best doctor and prayers are the best medicine. What is impossible with men is possible with God. Amen!” said Randhawa as he got ready to preside over yet another meeting. This time the minister held deliberations with villagers who were asked to wear masks when they come to the grain market, the main venue of the event, on November 30.Fateh Jung loyalist Lally is PSIDC vice-chairmanQadian MLA Fateh Jung has his way with the CM when he so desires. This time he has managed to persuade the CM to appoint one of his loyalists, Wazir Singh Lally, as the vice-chairman of the Punjab State Industrial Development Corporation (PSIDC). It is indeed a plum posting. It is obvious that the MLA, known for his non-controversial nature, has started preparing the turf for the 2022 Assembly elections by having the right men at the right posts. Lally is said to be a popular leader in the area. He is the sarpanch of Sangar village in Dhariwal block, a position he is holding for the fourth successive time. In 2008 he was elected as chairman of the Dhariwal block samiti and in 2015 he was appointed as the chairman of the the Dhariwal market committee. The man is happy to serve his boss and pays credit to him for the all round development the township of Dhariwal is witnessing. “I am what I am because of Fateh Jung Singh Bajwa,” he said. Political observers claim that in one stroke Fateh has not only managed to silence all his detractors but has also endeared himself to his constituents by appointing Lally because of the popularity of the latter.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/wear-masks-to-save-yourself-from-covid-177035
28-11-2020||Amritsar||Fruit vendor shot at, 2 booked for murder bid||A fruit vendor was shot at by two unidentified persons near Gobindgarh Fort here on Thursday evening. The victim, a migrant, was identified as Anil Kumar who suffered a gunshot injury on his shoulder. He was admitted to a private hospital for treatment.The Gate Hakima police have registered a case of murder bid and under sections of the Arms Act against unidentified persons while further investigation was underway to identify the suspects.The victim told the police that at around 7.30pm, he along with Manoj Kumar was selling apples on their pull carts near the historic Gobindgarh Fort. He said two unidentified persons travelling on a bike stopped and bought apples worth Rs 100 from him. He said when he asked for money, both of them started arguing with each other over giving money for the apples. He said during the arguments, one of them took out a pistol and opened fire which hit his left shoulder. They fled the spot.Hearing the gunshot, Manoj Kumar, who was also a migrant, came and rushed him to hospital where he was under treatment. Both have been selling fruits near the Gobindgarh Fort for the past three years.Dilbagh Singh, in-charge, Putlighar police chowki, and investigating officer of the case, said a case under Section 307, IPC, and sections 25, 54 and 59-A of the Arms Act had been registered against unidentified persons for now. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/fruit-vendor-shot-at-2-booked-for-murder-bid-177038
28-11-2020||---||Post reopening, occupancy in GNDU hostels is minimal||Amritsar, November 27GNDU is adopting a minimal occupancy method for hostel allotment as outstation students have started coming in for attending offline classes. Calling students in three phases for re-opening and hostel allotment, giving priority to students of final-year classes, the university has put in place new regulations for hostels as well.Two weeks after the reopening of offline classes, students have already settled in the new set of things. “The room allotment is fine as we are given one room per student than the previous system of sharing by two to three students. Also, the use of washroom area and dining too has been made easily accessible. The only concern is that cases are again rising in Punjab and Amritsar,” shared a student of BSc (final year) from Haryana, who has been attending classes for the past week.The university, said Dr Satnam Singh Deol, in-charge, Sahibzada Jujhar Singh Boys’ Hostel, has kept in mind the possibility of a second wave of the virus. “Our hostel can accommodate 700 students but currently only 110 students have been allotted rooms. Also, we have extended the dining area timings for all three meals of the day by an hour so that students come in small groups to eat. Students are being instructed to maintain social distancing. Currently, our hostel is the only one where the mess is operational. Sanitisation of the hostel is being done twice a day,” he said.Despite the cautions, the number of students applying for hostels remains low. Mohit, a student of BTech ECE final semester from Delhi, has chosen to remain at home despite the offline classes being held for his course. “Most of the local students too are not coming for offline classes and those who are, the number is very low. Given that there is a possibility of another wave of the spread and the fact that the university has not given any hostel fee waiver despite the hostels remaining shut for half of the session, I chose to stay back.”Contrary to locals and domestic students, international students shared that staying in campus was the best option for them. “Since travel restrictions were put in place after the lockdown and we were yet to finish our degree, most of us decided to stay here during the lockdown. We were attending online classes from our respective departments so there was virtual efficiency as well,” said Thierno Yaghouba Balde, an MBA student of GNDU who hails from Republic of Guinea in West Africa.Along with him, 13-15 international students from other African countries like Kenya, Nigeria, Mozambique and Afghanistan too did not return to their countries during the lockdown. Their final terms got delayed due to the lockdown and now they are waiting for the final exam results before they fly back to their home.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/post-reopening-occupancy-in-gndu-hostels-is-minimal-177030
28-11-2020||Amritsar||Online exam to recruit 8,393 
pre-primary teachers tomorrow||As the recruitment board of School Education Department, Punjab, has issued notification for recruitment of 8,393 vacancies of pre-primary teachers in the state, the district Education Department is making arrangements ahead of the November 29 examination for the same which will be conducted online.With almost 1000 vacancies in the district for pre-primary and primary classes, under the new instructions, relaxations in age and qualifications under certain reserved categories have been provided. As per notification, the age limit has been extended up to five years for SC/OBC candidates and in case of widowed or divorced women. Educational qualifications mention the candidate must have passed Class XII exam or equivalent with at least 45 per cent marks. Candidates should also have a diploma course of minimum one year in Nursery Teacher Education Programme or equivalent and must have cleared Class X with Punjabi as a subject.“The pre-primary classes that began three years ago in the state in all government schools have been getting very good response. Enrolment numbers have been high and consistent despite schools being shut and online classes are being conducted. To prepare for the next academic session as and when the schools reopen, these vacancies are being filled. Earlier, there was uncertainty about the recruitment exams being conducted or not,” said Rekha Mahajan, Deputy DEO, Amritsar. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/online-exam-to-recruit-8-393-pre-primary-teachers-tomorrow-177031
28-11-2020||Neha Saini||Tech adds the X-factor to primary education||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, November 27While many would argue over sustainability of the unprecedented change in the education sector after the pandemic, however, when it comes to primary education, the digital shift has managed to bring some positive changes. At least that’s what Shivani, a primary teacher from Bhavan’s SL Public School believes.“The pre-primary and primary education is more fun and engaging due to the technological shift. It has made the entire process of learning inclusive for not just kids but also the parents, who are equally engaged in online classes,” says Shivani. A teacher for nursery and KG classes for past two years, she shares that the new normal for them was challenging but more satisfying.The early stages of online teaching were demanding. “It was a difficult time early on when I used to brainstorm as to how to engage kids through online sessions,” she reveals. Usually, kids are not that patient with online sessions. But she used to create audio-visual tools, activity charts and used other tools to keep them interested. “Devising new ways every day to keep them hooked and also participate in learning process was a new experience for me as well.”Shivani now takes 45-minute classes every day, in morning and evening. “I am a teacher, a storyteller, a friend to my students now. Sure, the working hours have lengthened but I feel that I can now keep tabs on each student in a better way,” she also says that the biggest change that happened in primary education was that parents are now active part of the child’s learning process.Earlier, many parents who were professionally engaged had to be dependent on schools and tutors for their wards’ learning needs. Now, with digital classes, they are equally involved, connected to the teacher with details. “It’s like learning has become fun for both, parents and kids,” Shivani feels.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/tech-adds-the-x-factor-to-primary-education-177024
28-11-2020||PK Jaiswar||Gangster’s brother shot dead in broad daylight||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, November 27Gang rivalry claimed the life of Mani Dhawan, brother of gangster Sunny, alias Gorilla. Mani was gunned down by two assailants at 88-Feet Road on Majitha Road in broad daylight on Friday. The victim was basking in the sun near his shop, as there was no customer in the afternoon. Seven rounds were fired at him killing him on the spot.Cops suspect rivalry between one Shubham and Simran as the reason behind the incident. Both have killed each other’s fathers in the past. Gorilla was the member of Simran gang and was currently in jail. Past rivalry to blameShubham and Simran’s rivalry started in 2015. Shubham shot dead Simran’s father in 2016. He used to run a dhaba on Majitha Road. To avenge his father’s death, Simran shot dead Shubham’s father, a former cop, in 2018. Similarly, Shubham, along with his accomplice Saraj Mintoo, killed a Hindu leader Vipin Sharma on Batala Road, who allegedly gave shelter to Simran.Following the incident, senior police officials, including Police Commissioner Dr Sukhchain Singh Gill, Additional Deputy Commissioner of Police Sandeep Malik besides others reached the spot to conduct probe.Police Commissioner pointed out that the incident seemed to be an outcome of personal enmity. He said CCTV cameras in the area were being checked. He said the police have some vital clues about the perpetrators and they would be arrested soon.Varun Kumar, an eyewitness, said as there was no customer, Mani was sitting in the sun opposite his bike-repair shop. He said some bike-borne people came to Mani. He tried to escape but was shot dead by them.A paint shop owner, another eyewitness, said he heard the gunshot and immediately came out of his shop located just opposite to the crime spot. He said he saw two youth escaping on a bike after shooting the victim. One of the accused, who was riding pillion, had covered his face with a mask. While escaping from the spot, they fired a couple of shots in the air.Another eyewitness said the suspects fired from behind. Mani sustained bullet injuries on his head and back. He was rushed to the hospital, where doctors declared him dead. The police have recovered empty shells from the spot. Deceased’s family members have, however, named two people — Tinku Bangali and Sonu. Parveen Kumar, SHO Sadar police station, said a murder case was registered on the statement of Ramesh Kumar, uncle of the deceased. He said all entry and exit points of the city have been sealed so that the accused could not escape.Deputy Commissioner of Police (investigations) Mukhwinder Singh Bhullar said they would bring Shubham, currently lodged in Faridkot Jail, on production warrant for further investigation. He said investigations carried out so far reveal that two youths belonging to Gurdaspur and Chheharta here, were behind the brutal murder of Mani Dhawan. He said they would verify whether they are the same people whose names have been given by the family members or not.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/gangsters-brother-shot-dead-in-broad-daylight-177025
28-11-2020||Neeraj Bagga---||With ration, LPG cylinders, farmers leave for New Delhi||Tribune News Service AMRITSAR, NOVEMBER 27 Firmly holding a travel bag containing clothes and belongings for daily needs, a septuagenarian farmer couldn’t have found it easier to board a tractor-trailer. Parshottam Singh, a resident of Jhande village on the Amritsar-Batala highway, had already contributed sacks of wheat, rice and cereals grown on his piece of land.  “My father Sulakhan Singh was in the Indian British Army. However, he left it to join the Azad Hind Fauj of Subhash Chandra Bose to liberate the country from foreign yoke. Now, my solitary goal is to stand for the cause of farming in this hour of crisis and my entire family is ready to follow suit in case the need arises,” he said.  He owns 10 acres of land which he tills with the help of his two sons, one of which had retired from the army. Meanwhile, one of his two grandsons resides in Canada and is a truck driver there. “All cannot go overseas for their living and farming also provides a decent living,” Parshottam added. Amolakjeet Singh, 28, of Naraingarh village, sounds an alarm to dreamers of abroad. He said he had lost about Rs8.5 lakh while trying to go to Italy and UK in search for greener pastures. “Unluckily, both attempts were foiled with deceit and I suffered a huge loss of money,” he revealed, before adding, “farming is the only vocation on which my entire family depends upon for bread.”  He said now government wants to end their liberty by putting them under the thumb of corporate houses. “Look at the approach of these corporate houses. They are selling all household goods, including vegetables and groceries, denying trading opportunities to even small traders and karyana stores.”  They were part of the groups of farmers, gathered under the patronage of the Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Committee (KMSC) heading towards Delhi on Friday — carrying ration, LPG cylinders and other materials to camp for what seems to be a long agitation. Trolleys were finely covered under plastic sheets to provide safety in case of rain and inclement weather. Each participant was carrying a bag full of clothes and things of personal needs.  Before moving out of district they assembled at the Golden Gate, situated on the GT road. Addressing the protesters, Sarwan Singh Pandher, general secretary of the KMSC, said, another group of farmers from Tarn Taran would join them on the way to Delhi. He said they would like to cross the Shambhu barrier to gain entry in the national capital. “We are taking along ration for months. Next batch of farmers would move out of the district after 20 days,” he told. The KMSC spearheaded blockade of Amritsar-Delhi railway line at Devidaspura village on Friday. Their demands include the rollback of three central farm laws. These legislations pertained to the Essential Commodities (EC) Act, to free up inter-state trade in agricultural commodities and provide a regulatory framework for contract farming.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/with-ration-lpg-cylinders-farmers-leave-for-new-delhi-177026
28-11-2020||---||Three booked for producing substandard quality fertilisers||Amritsar, November 27  Amritsar rural police have booked a fertiliser dealer and a firm owner for manufacturing and selling substandard material. The case was registered following a complaint lodged by Chief Agriculture Officer here. A complaint was submitted after the samples of the fertilisers failed in the test.  Those booked were identified as Sukhjinder Singh of Tarsikka, who runs a fertiliser store, Mansukhpal Singh of Barnala, owner of the fertiliser firm, and its unidentified MD. An FIR was registered under Section 19 (A), 19 (C) Fertilizer Control Order and Section 7 of the Essential Commodity Act.  Gurwinder Singh, SHO Tarsikka police station, said as per complaint, the samples of the fertilisers was taken around two months ago. These samples were then sent for testing in Pune. During the testing, it was found to be of substandard quality. Therefore, a case has been registered. He added further investigation was underway. Man found murdered An unknown person was found murdered in fields of Verka here on Friday. The deceased had injury marks on his head. The police have registered a murder case against unidentified persons in this connection.    Harinderpal Singh, a resident of Verka, told police he found the body of a unknown person (50) while he was out on a morning stroll. “I immediately informed the police control room in this regard,” he said. Verka police authorities said the body has been kept in the mortuary for identification. They said a case under Section 302 of the IPC has been registered and further investigations were underway.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/three-booked-for-producing-substandard-quality-fertilisers-177027
28-11-2020||---||Re-carpeting on this route is the root cause of problem||Amritsar November 27Amrit Talkies stretch from Gol Hatti chowk to Katra Jaimal Singh chowk is one of the major markets and the link road between two main bazaars. Ironically, the road, which is less than 300 meters, is in a pathetic condition for last several years.The narrow course links Hall bazaar with Katra Jai Mal Singh, one of the busiest markets in the city. The tourists and traders from all over the country visit the market for clothes and dry fruits. The road is largely used by rickshaw pullers and small goods carrier vehicles. “There is no heavy traffic but it was damaged soon after the re-carpeting,” alleged traders and residents of the area.Rakesh Kumar, a local trader, said, “The road has been in lamentable condition for many years. It has become more dangerous for commuters, especially pedestrians. Earlier, the MC did the patch work but it was again damaged during the monsoons.” The tourists across the world visit the Golden Temple and do shopping in these markets. The government had spent crores on the beautification projects but ignored re-carpeting of these roads. “It would be re-carpeted on priority as commuters faced inconvenience. The tourists get bad impression of the holy city”, said Gurmeet Singh, a resident of area.Though, the MC has been recarpeting the nearby roads and streets in the area, the local Congress leader stated that this road would be reviewed soon. Mayor Karmajit Singh Rintu stated that MC has re-carpeted a large number of main roads this year by spending Rs20 crore. In the second phase, small stretches and interior roads are being re-carpeted. “No area would be left without development as there is no scarcity of funds. The proposal for re-carpeting of paths in the inner localities was passed recently,” he informed.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/re-carpeting-on-this-route-is-the-root-cause-of-problem-177028
28-11-2020||Tribune reportersSangrur/Jalandhar/Patiala/ Amritsar/Tarn Taran||Support grows, more march towards Delhi||Family members of indebted farmers, who have committed suicides, along with students and others have left for New Delhi from the Khanauri border under the banner of the Bhartiya Kisan Union (Ugrahan) to protest the Central farm laws.“My husband and son committed suicide after they failed to repay a debt of Rs 9 lakh taken from a money lender and a bank. Despite submitting all required documents to officials, I have not got any waiver. However, many times, members of my union have prevented the auction of my half acre land,” says Balwinder Kaur, an elderly woman from Sunam.Another widow, Satwant Kaur, from Chhajli village says their union is the only ray of hope for them as successive governments had done little to help them till date.In this protest, a generational shift is visible in the BKU (Ugrahan) — youngsters, many of them first-time protesters, and women are in large numbers. The anti-Centre resentment among the youth can be gauged from the fact that many have left for New Delhi without bothering for their study.“Study can wait. If we fail to compel the Central Government to take back black laws, we will lose everything. My brother and I are prepared to go to jail in New Delhi. Our father is at home, looking after our land,” says Ravinderpal Singh, a youngster from the Sehna area of Barnala.Under the guidance of senior members of the union, youngsters are at the forefront in committees formed to collect ration and other essential items and cook and serve food. Carrying almost six-month ration on their trailers, farmers have left for Delhi. The entire system is well-coordinated to ensure protesters are provided food and other refreshments on time.Jathas leave on 70-80 tractorsFrom Jalandhar, more jathas set out for Delhi. Farmers of the Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Committee, in 70-80 tractor-trailers, headed out from here to be the backup for their counterparts struggling while trying to cross the state borders. Lakhwinder Singh, a committee leader, said, “We all are from different villages near Subhanpur in Kapurthala. We will move as jathas. The farmers who left earlier must be a bit exhausted. Now, we will give them time to rest and take charge from the front.We are moving with our beddings, woollen clothes,water and dry ration. Women too will follow us subsequently in separate jathas a day after.”Jagjit Singh from Sammipur village in Jalandhar said, “We will be leaving tomorrow in 8-10 cars. We do not intend to go by tractors as it will take us longer to catch up with our teams and provide them the needed support.”Meanwhile, Nakodar Akali MLA and a farmer, Gurpartap Wadala, said, “We have arranged some Innovas and Tempo Travellers for joining the farmers. Phillaur MLA Baldev Khera, too, will join us.”Local protests continueIn Patiala, the “Delhi Chalo” agitation has got an overwhelming response from women, and youth as a large number of them have come out to participate in the protests across the state. Farmers have also left with ration supply of over a month and will be camping in Delhi.Long traffic queues were witnessed on the National Highway connecting Rajpura to Delhi with farmers camping on the roadsides by parking tractors. “We are not returning without getting justice,” said Nabkiran singh from Rongla village.Farmers left Patiala on Wednesday through various interstate borders to reach Delhi without being arrested. “We will reach straight at the venue of the dharna as we are sure that our community members will reach Delhi. Stopping farmers forcibly is something that will only add to problems. The government should rather allow us to reach Delhi and protest peacefully”, said many elderly farmers.Rallies against Haryana GovtJathas of farmers of the Kisan Mazdoor Sangarsh Committee (KMSC) went to Delhi from the holy city's golden gate and Tarn Taran's Harike Pattan on Friday. They also organised rallies at Harike and their leaders condemned the Manohar Lal Khattar government for its oppressive action on farmers heading to Delhi. The leaders stressed that the farmers should remain calm before the repression. “We have made all possible arrangements of meal and shelter,” said Satnam Singh Pannu, President, KMSC.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/support-grows-more-march-towards-delhi-176868
28-11-2020||Amritsar||Jagir Kaur elected SGPC president for fourth time||Senior SAD leader Bibi Jagir Kaur was elected president of the Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (SGPC) for the fourth time at an annual general House meeting held here today. She succeeds Gobind Singh Longowal.Held post in 2005Jalandhar: Many years after Bibi Jagir Kaur got mired in a controversy relating to her daughter’s death, the SAD once again appointed her as the SGPC chief. A few days after she was inducted as a minister in the SAD-BJP government in 2012, she was convicted and jailed for the “forcible abortion” of her daughter. Even after she got bail, she remained sidelined by the party till she was appointed as the chief of the Istri Akali Dal about three years ago. On her appointment, Bholath MLA Sukhpal Khaira said, “The decision to appoint Bibi Jagir Kaur, a tainted and corrupt leader, as SGPC president exhibits total political bankruptcy of the SAD, besides the fact that she is a known rubber stamp of the Badals.” TNSA day earlier, members owing allegiance to the SAD had entrusted all rights to party president Sukhbir Singh Badal to take a final call on their behalf.As Jagir Kaur’s name was announced by Longowal and seconded by former SGPC acting president Alwinder Pal Singh Pakhoke, it was opposed by some members who proposed the name of rebel ‘Akali’ leader Mithu Singh Kahneke against her.Dhami appointed chief secyAmritsar: The SGPC’s general House on Friday appointed Harjinder Singh Dhami as honorary chief secretary. Dhami, a law graduate, has been SGPC member since 1996 and also served as general secretary during the last tenure. His appointment was confirmed by passing a resolution read by newly appointed SGPC chief Bibi Jagir Kaur during the general House meeting. The post has been vacant after Dr Roop Singh resigned on August 24. While passing another resolution, the House urged the Centre to reopen the Kartarpur corridor. TNSConsequently, the voting process was adopted in which Jagir Kaur emerged as the winner with a convincing margin. She polled 122 of the total 143 votes.She was first elected as SGPC president in 1999. In 2000, she was re-elected but during this term she resigned following the controversy in which she was accused of allegedly killing her daughter.During her third tenure, she led the Sikh body from September 2004 to November 2005. She was acquitted by the Punjab and Haryana High Court in December 2018.Surjit Singh Bhittewad was elected as senior vice-president, Baba Buta Singh junior vice-president and Bhagwant Singh Sialka general secretary.Jagir Kaur has proposed the name of Kahneke to be included in the 11-member executive. The other executive members include Baldev Singh Chungha, Baba Charanjit Singh Jassowal, Navtej Singh Kaoni, Satwinder Singh Tohra, Ajmer Singh Khera, Darshan Singh, Bhupinder Singh Balwan, Harbhajan Singh Masana, Malkit Kaur Kamalpur and Amrik Singh Shahpur.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/jagir-kaur-elected-sgpc-president-for-fourth-time-176925
28-11-2020||Amritsar||Jatha leaves for Pak to celebrate Guru’s 551st birth anniversary||Since Covid-19 restrictions came into force in March this year, a first jatha crossed over the Attari-Wagah land route to celebrate the 551st birth anniversary of Guru Nanak Dev at Nankana Sahib in Pakistan.Of 1,500 pilgrims, only 960 could get five-day visa, exclusively for Nankana Sahib. The occasion falls on November 30. The pilgrims would return on December 1.The SGPC-sponsored jatha comprising 325 members was flagged off by former SGPC president Gobind Singh Longowal from the Golden Temple premises. As many as 504 pilgrims had applied for Pakistan visa.Similarly, of the 172 devotees who had applied through Ferozepur-based Bhai Mardana Kirtan Darbar Society, only 154 were given visas. Other devotees who could procure visa through organisations, like Khalra Mission Committee, Nankana Sahib Committee, Delhi Committee, Sukhmani Sahib Committee, Haryana, crossed the border separately.Amid the pandemic, it was mandatory for every visitor to get a Covid-19 negative report, along with other requisite documents to gain entry to Pakistan. The SGPC had conducted a two-day free testing camp for the devotees going under its umbrella.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/jatha-leaves-for-pak-to-celebrate-gurus-551st-birth-anniversary-176932
