01-01-2021||Chandigarh||35 new COVID-19 cases in Chandigarh||Thirty-five more people tested positive for the novel coronavirus in Chandigarh, bringing the infection tally to 19,799 on Friday, according to a medical bulletin.One more death pushed the toll from the pandemic to 318 in the city, the bulletin said.Chandigarh has 372 active COVID-19 cases.Sixty-four more patients were discharged after they recovered from the infection, taking the number of recoveries to 19,109, according to the bulletin.A total of 1,82,063 samples have been taken for COVID-19 testing in the Union Territory and 1,61,358 of them have tested negative while reports of 92 are awaited, it said. --- PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/35-new-covid-19-cases-in-chandigarh-192306
01-01-2021||---||Western Command launches its own social media accounts||Chandigarh, January 1The Army's Western Command ushered in the new decade with the operationalisation of its official social media accounts on Twitter, Facebook and Instagram accounts on Friday.The official accounts of the Western Command can be accessed at @westerncomd_IA, Western Command and @westerncomd_indianarmy,respectively.Lieutenant General RP Singh, General Officer Commanding-in-Chief Western Command, posted the inaugural tweets and messages on all three platforms. While acknowledging the strength of social media, which has maximum reach especially amongst youth, he emphasised the need to use these platforms to keep the veterans and civilian population abreast on matters concerning national security and the contribution of the Western Command in the nation building.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/western-command-launches-its-own-social-media-accounts-192280
01-01-2021||Shimla/Chandigarh||Chandigarh, most of Punjab and Haryana, colder than Shimla; read why||Chandigarh and most of the plains in Punjab and Haryana were on Friday colder than the 'Queen of Hills' —Shimla.The reason: the sun is shining brightly in Himachal Pradesh these days while a thick blanket of fog refuses to lift off from most parts of the northern Indian plains.Many places on the plains—Amritsar, Ludhiana, Patiala, Ambala and Hisar were colder than hilly tourist destinations Shimla, Kufri, Dharamsala and Dalhousie in Himachal Pradesh, the Met Office in Chandigarh said.Chandigarh, located in the Shivalik foothills, recorded a minimum temperature at 6.1 degrees Celsius, while Shimla, located around 7,000 feet above sea level, saw a low of 6.8 degrees, Kufri 4.8 degrees, Dalhousie at 7 degrees and Dharamsala 3.2 degrees Celsius.Shimla, the Queen of Hills, is recording the 'warmest' days owing to long sunny spells, while cities like Chandigarh, Amritsar, Karnal, New Delhi and Lucknow, located in the plains, are reeling under a severe cold wave as the sun remains fogged out. Some parts of Delhi recorded 1.1 degree Celsius, coldest so far this season.Hill destinations have been experiencing long hours of sunny weather for over a week and the day temperatures in most places have risen. The dry weather would prevail till January 4, the Met office in Shimla said.But nights and mornings are intensely cold.Data accessed from the weather bureau indicates the weather in hill destinations of Shimla, Kufri, Narkanda, Chail, Kasauli, Dharamsala, Palampur, Dalhousie and Manali is 'warmer' in the day, perfect for a break from the biting chill of the plains."What a pleasant sun in Shimla. In Delhi, basking under the sun these days is a rare occasion," said tourist Sahil Khanna."We are enjoying the long sunny days," his wife Shilpi added.Manmohan Singh, director of the meteorological department in Shimla, told IANS that the maximum temperatures increased by one-two degrees due to prevailing dry weather.He said the humidity level of plus 80 per cent causes fog."In the plains it is more than 80 per cent. However, in the hills it's around 50 per cent these days."Hisar in Haryana shivered at minus 1.2 degrees Celsius, while it was 0.2 degree in Narnaul, 4.4 degrees in Ambala and 3.5 degrees in Karnal.Punjab's Faridkot recorded a low of 0.2 degree Celsius."It will be bright and sunny till January 4, when there are chances of widespread snow and rain in the state," added Singh. This will be along with other parts of northern India where rainfall is forecast by the IMD. — IANS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-most-of-punjab-and-haryana-colder-than-shimla-read-why-192240
01-01-2021||Deepankar Sharda||2021 — Hope of a new dawn||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, December 31City residents bid adieu to the Covid-hit 2020 by thronging their favourite places on New Year’s Eve. Contrary to expectations, a huge rush of people was witnessed at the Sector 17 Plaza, restaurants, discotheques, Elante Mall and markets of Sector 7, 8, 9, 35 and 43. Though the UT police launched a drive to challan people for not wearing a mask, social distancing norms went for a toss at a majority of the above-mentioned places.Traffic chaos on roadsDrunken driving nakas by the UT police led to chaos on roads in Sector 9, 17, 22, 26 and 35, the Industrial Area, the Tribune chowk and other parts of the city.“We didn’t expect such a huge rush this time. Though there’s a dip in the number of Covid cases in the city, people should have taken some precautions,” said a cop deployed in Sector 17.Decent footfall at eateries, discotheques in cityDespite the fear of Covid, restaurants and discotheques in the city received a decent footfall. “The response was good. We were not expecting much crowd due to the Covid fear among masses. However, youngsters came in a good number to enjoy the evening and welcome the New Year with positive vibes,” said Raj Thakur, manager, Tamzaraa Kafe.“People were eagerly waiting for a reason to celebrate and there’s no better reason than welcoming the New Year,” said Sumit Mehar, manager, Anardana Restaurant & Lounge.Meanwhile, charges for entry to clubs and bars for the New Year celebrations were high. Clubs charged between Rs6,000 and Rs10,000 for couple entry (all covered).Night curfew in Punjab crowds cityA similar kind of rush was witnessed at Sector 35 and Sector 43 hotels. Those in the business said people from Punjab came in a huge number due to night curfew across the state.“Those who failed to get any hotel bookings in Himachal Pradesh reached Chandigarh to celebrate the last evening of 2020. We hosted a good number of visitors,” said Partul, a local hotel manager.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/2021-%E2%80%94-hope-of-a-new-dawn-192108
01-01-2021||---||Medical store owner attacked, robbed of Rs2.5 lakh in Mohali||Mohali, December 31Three unidentified robbers attacked a medical store owner near his house in Phase IX, causing injuries on his arm and face, and decamped with a bag containing Rs2.5 lakh.Attackers will be nabbed soon: PoliceThe police have taken a recording of the CCTV footage for investigation. The culprits will be arrested soon.-  Deep Kamal, DSPIn his statement to the police, Puneet Goyal, the victim, stated that he was returning to his house by his car after closing his shop in Sector 71 around 10 pm. When he reached near a temple, he felt if someone was following him. He stated that when he reached near his house and parked his car, three youths, who had their faces covered, came there on a motorcycle.He stated that one of them was sitting on a motorcycle while two youths holding a rod and a hammer opened the door of his car and started attacking him. Goyal stated that one of the youths ran to the other side of the car and picked up a bag containing cash lying on the front seat. He said the two youths fled from the spot, along with their accomplice who was waiting on the bike.The complainant stated that as he raised the alarm, his neighbours came out of their homes but the robbers had fled by then. He added that the whole incident was captured on a CCTV installed at his house.Goyal said he informed the matter to the police control room after which a PCR van arrived there. He said his younger brother rushed him to a hospital for treatment.The Phase VIII police station has registered a case against the unidentified accused. The investigation officer, accompanied by the SHO of the police station, went to the hospital and recorded the victim’s statement.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/medical-store-owner-attacked-robbed-of-rs2-5-lakh-in-mohali-192109
01-01-2021||Sandeep Rana||MC clears way for upgrade of waste plant by private firm||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, December 31Amid thumping of “thalis” by Congress councillors over the issue of increase in the water rates, the Municipal Corporation House today cleared the way for the upgrade and maintenance of the garbage processing plant in Sector 25 by a private agency.Rs74-cr recarpeting works in next fiscalIt also gave nod to inviting expression of interest on “as-is-where-is basis.” The interested parties may submit their proposals to the Executive Engineer (Solid Waste Management), MC, by January 15 till 5 pm. The agencies meeting the criteria will be invited to present their proposals.The plant was installed in 2008 by Jaypee Associates on 10 acres. The possession of the plant was taken over by the corporation in June this year. After taking over the plant, it got a survey of the machinery conducted through the IIT, Roorkee, to assess its current state. A team of experts visited the plant on July 9.The IIT, Roorkee, had recommended setting up of a 500-tonne per day (TPD) plant for the treatment of dry and wet waste. It found that all machines were already 12 years old, which is practically the lifespan of such machines. It stated that both primary and secondary shredders were not in a working condition.Later, a monitoring committee constituted by the NGT and chaired by Justice Pritampal (retd) reviewed the plant on December 7 and directed to upgrade the plant to increase its capacity, read the agenda presented in the House.According to the MC, the city produces about 500 metric tonne waste per day. However, only 60 to 70 metric tonne is processed at the plant. The remaining is thrown across the road in the dumping ground at Dadu Majra.House loses three hours in Mayor’s praise!Rather than discussing important city issues, BJP councillors wasted about three hours in praising outgoing Mayor Raj Bala Malik. On the contrary, seven agenda items were cleared within five minutes without any discussion amid protest by the Congress.One by one, councillors addressed the House praising Bala for her work during the ongoing coronavirus period. Nominated councillor Sachin Lotiya said there was no one like her, while councillor Arun Sood said she worked like “Jhansi ki Rani”.On the other hand, Leader of the Opposition Devinder Singh Babla criticised the Mayor, calling her a “failure.” BJP and Congress councillors had heated arguments over Babla’s comments against her and councillor Rajesh Kalia.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/mc-clears-way-for-upgrade-of-waste-plant-by-private-firm-192112
01-01-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh vaccine dry run tomorrow||The UT Administration will conduct a dry run for the Covid-19 vaccination programme on January 2.One death, 39 more test positive in ChandigarhChandigarh: The city on Thursday reported 39 new cases of Covid and one death, raising the infection tally to 19,748 and toll to 317. There are 386 active cases in the city. TNSAs per the Centre’s instructions, the UT will conduct the dry run to check the preparedness of the Health Department for the vaccination programme. The department has already selected a few sites for the mock drive, which will test the mechanism for the programme. During the exercise, each site will have 25 pre-registered persons on the CoWIN portal, called through an SMS. They will be verified, “mock-vaccinated” and observed for 30 minutes before being allowed to leave.The process will provide an insight into gaps or lacunae in vaccine distribution and administration, if any, so that these can be addressed before rolling out the vaccination drive. —TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-vaccine-dry-run-tomorrow-192114
01-01-2021||Mohali||41 new cases, no death in Mohali||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/41-new-cases-no-death-in-mohali-192116
01-01-2021||Panchkula||21 fresh cases in Panchkula||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/21-fresh-cases-in-panchkula-192117
01-01-2021||Dushyant Singh Pundir||4-BHK flat at IT Park likely to cost Rs2.75 crore||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, December 31The Chandigarh Housing Board (CHB) is likely to fix a whopping Rs2.75 crore as the price of a four-bedroom flat in a general housing scheme to be launched at Rajiv Gandhi Chandigarh Information Technology Park (IT Park).CHB scheme728 flats to come up under project to be launched soonFlat rateThe Board of Directors, CHB, had already given in-principle approval to the scheme to be launched in March or April.Under the scheme, the CHB will construct 728 flats of different categories, including two-bedroom, three-bedroom and four-bedroom, in seven-storey towers. The towers will have two basements with the provision for parking of two cars for each flat in addition to surface parking for visitors.As per the initial cost prepared by the board, a four-bedroom flat is likely to cost nearly Rs2.75 crore, a three-bedroom flat about Rs1.90 crore and a two-bedroom flat close to Rs1.30 crore. However, the final rates of the flats will be fixed after drawings of the project are approved.An official said various clearances, including environmental, for the launch of the scheme would be obtained soon. He said the CHB would replace the mandatory EWS flats with two-bedroom flats in the scheme.The Advisory Council’s Standing Committee on Urban Infrastructure and Planning had already approved doing away with EWS flats under the project, he said, adding that a survey was being conducted for the construction of flats under the EWS category at some other place. Two more towers of two-bedroom flats would be constructed on the space for EWS flats, added the official.UT Administrator VP Singh Badnore had given his consent to the project in July this year. The board has 123 acres in its possession at the IT Park where 20 sites will be developed. The board will develop the project on two plots — 10.51 acres and 6.43 acres — while the remaining 18 sites will be given to private builders for development.The housing scheme will come up close to the high-end officers’ flats to be constructed for the governments of Haryana and Punjab, and the UT Administration.The CHB had to scrap its costliest general housing scheme in Sector 53 over a poor response from people in March this year. Only 178 applications were received for the 492 flats on offer. The scheme offered three-BHK flat for as high as Rs1.5 crore, a two-BHK flat for Rs1.28 crore, a one-BHK flat for Rs86 lakh and an EWS flat for Rs50 lakh.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/4-bhk-flat-at-it-park-likely-to-cost-rs2-75-crore-192120
01-01-2021||---||Chandigarh colder than Shimla||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, December 31The city today recorded the lowest minimum temperature of this season.The minimum temperature today dropped to 2.7°C, which is three notches below normal, making it the coldest night so far in December. The night was even colder than Shimla, which recorded the minimum temperature of 3°C.Last year, the lowest minimum temperature was 2.9°C on December 29, while the maximum temperature was 16.3°C, which was four notches below normal.Meanwhile, the first day of the year is expected to be partly cloudy while January 2 and 3 are likely to see thundershowers/light rain, as per the Meteorological Department.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-colder-than-shimla-192121
01-01-2021||---||Congress picks Babla to contest Mayor’s post||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, December 31The city Congress today announced councillor Devinder Singh Babla its candidate for the Mayor’s seat. The mayoral elections are scheduled to be held on January 8.While councillor Ravinder Kaur Gujral was declared the party’s Senior Deputy Mayor candidate, councillor Satish Kainth will be contesting for the post of Deputy Mayor.The ruling BJP is yet to decide its candidates. At present, councillors Arun Sood, Shakti Prakash Devshali, Maheshinder Singh Sidhu and Ravi Kant Sharma are the front runners for the post of Mayor.The Mayor is elected for a one-year term from among the elected councillors in the General House. There are a total of 27 votes — 26 of elected councillors and one of ex officio member, who is the city MP. The BJP has 20 councillors in the MC House, the Congress five and the SAD one.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/congress-picks-babla-to-contest-mayors-post-192122
01-01-2021||Mohali||No night curfew in Mohali from today||Considering the recent downtrend in Covid-19 cases, the district administration today ordered that there would be no night curfew from January 1.Mohali District Magistrate Aashika Jain ordered that restrictions regarding night curfew (10 pm to 5 am) in all cities/towns and closing of hotels, restaurants and marriage palaces, etc by 9.30 pm would no more be applicable in the district from January 1 onwards.Jan said the ceiling of 100 persons and 250 persons in all indoor and outdoor social gatherings in the district applicable till December 31 were further relaxed to 200 persons and 500 persons in all the indoor and outdoor social gatherings, respectively, from the New Year onwards.The DM said however, any violation of Covid safety guidelines would be punishable under Sections 51 to 60 of the Disaster Management Act, 2005. Besides, the violator would invite legal action under Section 188 of the Indian Penal Code (IPC), said Jain. —TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/no-night-curfew-in-mohali-from-today-192123
01-01-2021||Panchkula||Haryana CM Manohar Lal Khattar meets new Panchkula Mayor||Haryana Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar today met newly elected Panchkula Mayor Kulbhushan Goyal and councillors at his official residence in Chandigarh.On the occasion, Haryana Speaker and local MLA Gian Chand Gupta, former Cabinet Minister and election in-charge of the BJP, Capt Abhimanyu, co-election in-charge and Yamunanagar Mayor Madan Chauhan and Panchkula BJP president Ajay Sharma were also present.The BJP won nine ward seats, while its alliance partner, the JJP, secured two seats in the Panchkula MC elections. The results were announced yesterday.The newly elected BJP councillors are Narinder Pal Singh Lubana, Suresh Kumar Verma, Ritu Goel, Sonia Sood, Jai Kumar Kaushik, Harinder Malik, Sonu, Suneet Kumar and Rakesh Kumar.Later in the day, the newly elected BJP leaders also visited state BJP president Om Prakash Dhankar at his residence. —TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/haryana-cm-manohar-lal-khattar-meets-new-panchkula-mayor-192125
01-01-2021||---||Mohali-Kharar flyover a New Year gift to residents, says Captain Amarinder Singh||Tribune News ServiceMohali, December 31Punjab Chief Minister Captain Amarinder Singh today dedicated the Chandigarh-Kharar flyover to the citizens as a New Year’s gift. He said it would pave the way for further economic development of the region while easing the perpetual traffic congestion along the route.The Chief Minister termed the corridor project — from the Sector 39 roundabout to Khanpur – as the fulfilment of a long-pending need of the region. With the opening of the third phase of the corridor on December 28, the project is now 96 per cent complete. The remaining (one side of the road at Khanpur) is expected to be completed by mid-January 2021.The CM congratulated the civil administration for ensuring peaceful acquisition of land and resettlement of land owners and also appreciated the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) for the expeditious completion of the project. He said his government had started addressing various problems such as ensuring payment of 99 per cent compensation for the acquired land and razing of all 50 acquired structures. To enable the work to continue during the Covid lockdown, special arrangements were made for labourers at the site, said the Chief Minister.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/mohali-kharar-flyover-a-new-year-gift-to-residents-says-captain-amarinder-singh-192126
01-01-2021||Deepankar Sharda||PU Syndicate term ends, over to VC now||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, December 31With the end of 2020, the term of the Panjab University (PU) Syndicate also ends.For the first time, the PU will now function without the governing bodies — Senate and Syndicate. The term of the Senate ended on October 31, while the Syndicate’s term ends today. Without the governing bodies, the power to run the university now lies with the authorities headed by the Vice-Chancellor.Earlier, when the Senate elections were postponed twice, several decisions such as conducting blended-mode (online/offline) exams, announcing results and cancelling entrance tests among others were taken without any House meeting.Former members of governing bodies alleged that all decisions taken were illegal. Sources said the authorities would now work on implementing the New Education Policy (NEP). “As per the UGC’s communication on October 20, all higher educational institutes have been asked to take action for governance reforms in the light of the NEP-2020. It will be interesting to see what will be the PU’s next step. There’s a possibility of formation of a Board of Governors (BoG) or an ad-hoc committee by the Centre to run the university. The meeting of Board of Finance (BoF) is one of the main meetings to be held before March,” said the sources.Matter in courtOn December 22, seven former PU Senators moved the Punjab and Haryana High Court, demanding Senate elections. The court refused to pass any directions on the plea after the Senators demanded directions for continuation of present bodies, including the Syndicate, till the elections are held. Later, the High Court Bench had sought a response from the PU on the application and fixed January 12 as the next date of hearing. Former members of the Senate and Syndicate had also approached the Vice- President of India, who is also the PU Chancellor in this regard. However, the matter still hangs fire.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/pu-syndicate-term-ends-over-to-vc-now-192127
01-01-2021||Patiala||Patiala's Gurdwara Dukhniwaran Sahib all set to get a new look||Gurdwara Dukhniwaran Sahib will now get a new look. Jathedar Satwinder Singh, member of the gurdwara internal committee, today said the work would be undertaken in view of the 400th birth anniversary of Guru Tegh Bahadur Sahib and completed by May next year.Gurdwara manager Karnail Singh Nabha said, “The main entrance of the gurdwara will be widened and steel grids will be installed on the premises. The management has decided to make some changes in the parking facility at the gurdwara.”They were also mulling the construction of a gate at the rear entrance of the gurdwara, which would be finalised on January 2, he added. “The project will be completed with the help of Baba Amrik Singh, Baba Inder Singh and devotees,” the gurdwara official stated. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/patialas-gurdwara-dukhniwaran-sahib-all-set-to-get-a-new-look-192132
01-01-2021||---||Two of gang held for preparing fake RCs||Tribune News ServiceMohali, December 31The Mohali police have nabbed two members of a gang on a charge of preparing fake Aadhar cards and driving licences. The police also seized 11 fake stamps, seven driving licences, 10 registration certificates (RCs) of vehicles, two fake Aadhaar cards and 40 blank Aadhaar cards.Had fake stampsSatinder Singh, SSP, said the police had received a tip-off that the miscreants — Samrat Bajaj, Bhupinder Singh, Balwinder Singh and Purshotam — had fake stamps of various government departments for preparing fake RCs of vehicles. Besides, the suspects also had equipment to make forged documents.The suspects have been identified as Samrat Bajaj, a resident of Kharar, and Bhupinder Singh, a resident of Maloya colony in Chandigarh.Satinder Singh, SSP, said the suspects were arrested by the police team, led by SHO Pawan Kumar, during a routine checking drive at Bhuru Chowk in Kharar on Wednesday. He said the police had received a tip-off that miscreants named Samrat Bajaj, Bhupinder Singh, Balwinder Singh and Purshotam had fake stamps of various government departments for preparing fake RCs of vehicles and besides this, the suspects also had equipment to make forged documents. A case under sections 420, 465, 467, 471 and 120B of the IPC was registered at the Kharar city police station.The SSP said during the preliminary investigation, the suspects revealed that they used to bring chipped RCs and driving licences from Ludhiana and with the help of a computer, they used to make vehicle registration certificates, Aadhaar cards and driving licences.The suspects further revealed that they charged Rs4 to 5,000 per RC and had been doing the illegal business in the Kharar for the past two years. He further said the accused used to prepare fake documents of persons living in Mohali and other district and added that further investigations in the case was on.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/two-of-gang-held-for-preparing-fake-rcs-192155
01-01-2021||Mohali||Students get smartphones||To digitally equip students of government schools, the state government has provided smartphones to over 1.75 lakh boys and girls studying in Class XII, said Cabinet Minister and local MLA Balbir Singh Sidhu after handing over smartphones to students at a district-level function in Mohali on Thursday.He said the scheme would continue in the next academic year as well. As many as 5,671 students of Mohali district had been provided smartphones, he said. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/students-get-smartphones-192156
01-01-2021||Chandigarh||Cheque stolen, given in bank||CITY teacher bags awardChandigarh: Roseleen (TGT Home Science) of Government Model High School, Sector 38(W), has received the Best Educational Poster Global Award at International Educational e-Content Festival held on December 27. It was organised by the Universal Teachers’ Academy (UTA), Puducherry. Of 948 entries received by the UTA, only 12 winners were selected for different categories after three rounds of evaluation. Roseleen is the only teacher from Chandigarh to win the award. TNSut Cop’s service appreciatedChandigarh: UT police Inspector Ram Dayal on Thursday received an appreciation letter from the Administration for his selfless service to provide the needy with food during the pandemic. Ram Dayal organised langars at Sectors 34 and 44 for 45 days. Tejdeep Singh Saini, Director (Sports), UT, handed over the appreciation letter to him on the behalf of the Deputy Commissioner. TNSDBU thanks Union MinisterChandigarh: Representatives of universities and colleges thanked Union Minister Som Prakash for the restoration of the post-matric scholarship scheme. Dr Zora Singh, Chancellor, Desh Bhagat University (DBU), said: “We are grateful to the Centre for fruitful changes in the scheme for students.” TNSResults declaredChandigarh: Panjab University has declared results of MA (Sociology) second semester; MA (English) second semester; MA (Political science) second semester and BSc-Nursing (Four year annual system) third year. TNSLecture on access to LibraryChandigarh: An induction lecture on “How to access AC Joshi Library” was held at the PU. The lecture was delivered by Dr Jivesh Bansal, chief librarian, keeping in view the concern of international students seeking guidance as they had been facing difficulties with regard to the access of e-resources available at the library. TNSWrestling meet from January 3Chandigarh: The UT Wrestling Association will host Chandigarh Senior State Championship from January 3 to 5 at the Mani Majra sports complex. The championship will be organised while following all Covid-19 SOPs. Bouts for the freestyle event will be held on January 3 followed by women’s freestyle on January 4. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/cheque-stolen-given-in-bank-192157
