07-01-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh reports 43 fresh COVID-19 cases, 2 more deaths||Chandigarh’s COVID-19 caseload rose to 20,147 on Thursday with 43 fresh cases while the death toll climbed to 325 as two more people succumbed to the disease, according to a medical bulletin.Currently, there are 240 active cases in Chandigarh, it said.A total of 57 patients were discharged after they recovered from the infection, taking the number of cured persons to 19,582, according to the bulletin.So far, a total of 1,89,318 samples have been taken for testing. Of these, 1,68,231 samples have tested negative while reports of 157 are awaited, the bulletin said. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-reports-43-fresh-covid-19-cases-2-more-deaths-195137
07-01-2021||Chandigarh||Prohibit phones inside polling room, Congress urges Badnore||The city Congress has requested UT Administrator VP Singh Badnore to ensure a free, fair and transparent election for the post of Mayor of the Municipal Corporation (MC).In a letter to Badnore, city Congress president Pardeep Chhabra stated that it had been seen that the ruling party had made a mockery of the democratic process on many occasions due to their majority in the House. “I request you to instruct the authorities concerned and election officers to ensure all rules and election guidelines are followed in letter and spirit,” he said.Chhabra said in the past, it had been reported in the media and elsewhere that photographs of the election ballot had been clicked and leaked to outsiders or senior leaders.To stop this practice, no such gadget (phones, cameras, pens, smart watch, etc), which can be used to click a photograph or record the video of the ballot/vote, should be allowed to be carried by anyone inside the voting room.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/prohibit-phones-inside-polling-room-congress-urges-badnore-194645
07-01-2021||---||Vice-chairman of Red Cross felicitated||Mohali, Jannuary 6The vice-chairman, Indian Red Cross Society, Avinash Rai Khanna, today gave information about various welfare activities undertaken by the organisation under the project, “Humanitarian Service”, particularly during the lockdown.Khanna, who was the chief guest at a function at Rayat Bahra University, was felicitated for his services to society. He was accompanied by Himachal Pradesh Member of Parliament Indu Goswami.Khanna said for the success of this project, more than 3,000 children had been trained. Health and community care had become a cornerstone of the humanitarian assistance and accounted for a large part of Red Cross spending, he added.Gurvinder Singh Bahra, chairman, Rayat Bahra Group of Institutions (RBGI), was also present on the occasion.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/vice-chairman-of-red-cross-felicitated-194646
07-01-2021||Chandigarh||MC poll: Both rebels return to the BJP fold||Ahead of the Mayoral elections, both ‘rebel’ BJP councillors today returned to the party fold.After the announcement of the mayoral candidates, Chandrawati Shukla and Bharat Kumar had revolted against the party.The BJP had declared Ravi Kant Sharma as the candidate for the post of Mayor and Maheshinder Singh Sidhu and Farmila as the candidates for the posts of Senior Deputy Mayor and Deputy Mayor, respectively.In a statement, state BJP general secretary Rambir Bhatti stated that a meeting of the BJP councillors was held to decide the upcoming strategy for the election for the posts of Mayor, Senior Deputy Mayor and Deputy Mayor in the Municipal Corporation.State BJP president Arun Sood, state organisational general secretary Dinesh Kumar and all 19 councillors of the party attended this meeting, Bhatti added.Heera Negi could not attend the meeting today because she was admitted to a hospital after contracting coronavirus, said Bhatti.“Heera Negi will be present on January 8 when voting will be held for the three posts. Besides, if doctors are satisfied with the health of MP Kirron Kher, then she will also come to cast her vote on the polling day,” Bhatti added.“The BJP councillors stand with the party like a true soldier,” said Bhatti. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/mc-poll-both-rebels-return-to-the-bjp-fold-194647
07-01-2021||---||Three get life term in Kalka murder case||Tribune News ServicePanchkula, January 6The court of Additional District and Sessions Judge Narender Sura today awarded life imprisonment to three and two-year rigorous imprisonment (RI) to two more in the 2016 Kalka murder case in which a 19-year-old youth was bludgeoned to death with an iron rod and jewellery items worth around Rs50 lakh were looted.The murder, in which convicts Iqbal Ahmed and Mohammad Abid hit victim Shubhanshu Verma on the head multiple times with an iron rod, was recorded in CCTV cameras. After the murder, the footage got leaked and reached the common man too. People uploaded it on YouTube and TV channels also ran it.Iqbal Ahmed, a resident of Ghaziabad (UP), and Mohammad Abid, a resident of Delhi, were fined Rs5 lakh each. Jagdish Ram, a resident of Delhi, who brought Ahmed and Abid in an Innova, was also sentenced to life imprisonment with a fine of Rs2.50 lakh.Abid’s wife Naseem Begum and jeweller Ram Gopal Verma, both residents of Delhi, from whom stolen jewellery items were recovered, were fined Rs10,000 each. The court awarded Rs11 lakh of the total fine imposed on the convicts to the mother of the victim for “loss to the family”.One more accused, Mohammed Sadiq, son of Abid, was declared a proclaimed offender in the case.* What had happenedThe victim, Shubhanshu Verma, younger son of jeweller Jagdish Raj Verma, used to sleep inside the shop, which was situated on the road leading to the famous Kali Mata temple in Kalka.On the intervening night of July 4 and July 5, 2016, the accused, Iqbal Ahmed and Mohd Abid, residents of Delhi, entered the shop after cutting its tin roof with a gas cutter. While Ahmed held Shubhanshu from his throat, Abid hit him on the head multiple times with an iron rod. The court observed that it was about 10 times the victim was hit and a huge volume of blood oozed out. Later, they broke open a chest at the shop and fled with jewellery items.The next day, as Shubhanshu was not picking up the phone, his father along with his brother went to the shop where they found him lying in a pool of blood. He was rushed to the Community Health Centre at Kalka where he was declared brought dead. He used to sleep inside the shop for security purposes.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/three-get-life-term-in-kalka-murder-case-194649
07-01-2021||---||Research scholars allowed to stay in hostels of PU||Chandigarh, January 6Panjab University has allowed eligible research scholars to stay in hostels of the Sector 14 campus. The research scholars, who have experimental work in the laboratories to do, have completed two years after enrolment/registration and who were staying in the hostels in the session 2019-20, with the consent of their respective supervisors will be allowed to stay in hostels, said Prof Sukhbir Kaur, Dean, Student Welfare (Women).The research scholars, staying at the hostels of the Sector 25 campus, will also be adjusted in the Sector 14 hostels. She added that the residents would have to follow conditions, including undergoing Covid-19 test within a week before occupying hostel accommodation and submitting an undertaking to their respective hostel warden to follow all SOPs. The undertaking should come through the department chairpersons concerned. All residents are also advised to go through SOPs and to strictly adhere to them.Food will be served through tiffin (lunch box) on a cash-payment basis. Residents are advised to bring two tiffins to take precautions during the present situation of Covid-19. The entry of guests/visitors will not be allowed till further orders. Minimum number of messes/canteens will be opened and the residents have to collect their tiffins from the contractors. Facilities such as shops (barber/beauty parlour, tailor, tuck-shops, washerman/washerwoman, etc.) will not be provided for the time being.The research scholars, who have completed more than five years after enrolment, will be allowed to avail hostel facility on daily charges. Research scholars stage protestThe Panjab University Research Scholars Association (PURSA) staged a protest outside the Vice Chancellor’s office. They demanded the opening of departments, hostels and AC Joshi Library for all research scholars. It was also demanded that pedestrians’ way of Gate No. 1 should be opened to the public, extension for synopsis submission be extended till June, MPhil students be allowed to stay in hostels and access be given to scholars, who are staying in hostels, to the main library.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/research-scholars-allowed-to-stay-in-hostels-of-pu-194650
07-01-2021||---||Workshop on yoga held||Chandigarh, January 6Acharya Balvinder Kumar, former Assistant Professor, Dhanwantri Ayurvedic College, Sector 46, attended the 3rd day of the ongoing workshop being organised by the Government College of Yoga Education and Health, Sector 23, in collaboration with Film Studies UIFVA & UITTR, Chandigarh University, Ghauran, on “Yoga – the scientific way of living”.“The system of yoga guides one towards spiritual liberation. Our body is like hardware and mind software,” said Balvinder. Thereafter, a session on basics of shatkarmas (kapalbhati) was conducted by Dr Mohinder Kumar. He explained the theoretical and practical aspects of kapalbhati which was followed by a session on “Kinesiology of Yoga” by Kulwant Singh.The workshop concluded with a theoretical-cum-practical session on bandhas, mudras and pranayama by Sumant Batish.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/workshop-on-yoga-held-194652
07-01-2021||---||14 heritage items to be auctioned in Luxembourg||Chandigarh, January 6As many as 14 heritage items, designed by architects Pierre Jeanneret and Le Corbusier, will be auctioned in Luxembourg on January 10.The heritage items, likely to fetch between Rs1.44 crore and Rs1.75 crore, include an office cane chair, office cane chairs with inclined backrest, a set of two senate committee chairs, a set of two easy armchairs, a cafeteria table, dining chairs, a low fireside chair, a student chair, a small desk, a teak sofa, a set of two armchairs and a set of two stools.In a letter, Ajay Jagga, member, Heritage Protection Cell, Chandigarh, requested Santosh Jha, Ambassador of India to Luxembourg, to initiate an inquiry into the auction of heritage goods as to how these banned items had gone beyond the territory of India in violation of the MHA orders, dated February 22, 2011.He also requested the Ambassador to look into the matter so that the auction of the smuggled heritage items could be stalled after ascertaining the facts.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/14-heritage-items-to-be-auctioned-in-luxembourg-194653
07-01-2021||Deepankar Sharda||PU braces for drastic changes as BCI scraps 1-yr LLM course||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, January 6As the Bar Council of India (BCI) has decided to scrap the one-year LLM course, introduced in 2013, Panjab University (PU) is now looking ahead for some drastic changes.As per the notification issued by the BCI under the Legal Education (Postgraduate, doctoral, executive, vocational, clinical and other continuing education) Rules, 2020, the postgraduate course – master’s degree (LLM) – has to be of two years (completed in four semesters).The LLM course is offered at PU’s Department of Laws, University Institute of Legal Studies, and Regional Centre, Ludhiana.In what could be a major setback, PU was planning to introduce the same course through correspondence mode starting this year. However, after this notification, PU has to abide by the new rules, which would further delay any further developments.Limited seats setback for universityPU used to conduct entrance test for filing seats in LLM courses, which helped the institution generate some revenue. Sources maintained that number of seats was limited and subject to increase or decrease as per the requirement after approval of the PU Senate and Syndicate. However, after introduction of these rules, a common entrance test will be conducted to fill limited seats.“Admission to LLM will be through postgraduate common entrance test in law (PGCETL) to be conducted by the BCI. Until the PGCETL is introduced the present system followed by respective universities shall be followed,” the sources added.Submit dissertation to assistant professorsThe notification also directs that dissertation should now be submitted to senior assistant professors. The notification further states: “The institution should also have a dedicated core faculty of not less than 10 of whom minimum four should be professors/associate professors,”It also asks to maintain student, teacher ratio. “The conditions to be satisfied to offer an LLM course, includes student, teacher ratio not exceeding 1:10 and maximum student strength of 20 in each branch of specialisation subject to maximum of 50 students overall in the LLM programme of the institution,” the notification adds.Encouraging students to teach?Experts believe changes announced by the BCI may help law graduates adopt the teaching profession in a phased manner.Notification envisages these changes||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/pu-braces-for-drastic-changes-as-bci-scraps-1-yr-llm-course-194654
07-01-2021||Chandigarh||Hookah: Club to be shut for 3 days||A club in Sector 26, Veda, was today closed for three days for defying the hookah ban.SDM (East) Sudhanshu Gautam ordered its closure. The UT Administration had banned serving of hookah to contain the spread of Covid-19.The Administration had recently ordered that hotels, restaurants and bars violating the ban by serving hookah to customers will be closed for three days and the owner or manager will be liable for punishment under various provisions of the Disaster Management Act. On January 1, a police team led by Inspector Jasbir Singh, SHO, Sector 26 police station, had found that a hookah was being served to the customers at the club following which a case was registered against the club proprietor Divya Malik, manager Manish and staff members Animesh Manna, Shivam Pathak and Parkash Negi.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/hookah-club-to-be-shut-for-3-days-194655
07-01-2021||---||4 more birds found dead at Sukhna||Chandigarh, January 6Four more birds have been found dead at the regulator end of Sukhna Lake here today.During patrolling of forest areas, Sukhna Lake and other water bodies of the city, a team of the Department of Forest and Wildlife, UT, found a common coot dead on Tuesday evening.During surveillance, four more birds of other species, including a common crow, were found dead at the regulator end of the lake today.The reason of their death has not been ascertained so far. However, the samples of the dead birds have been sent for testing to the Regional Disease Diagnostic Laboratory, Jalandhar.An official of the Forest Department said a total of five birds, including a migratory bird, had been found dead in the lake so far.Forest field officials and all others concerned have been kept on a high alert to keep a strict vigil and look for possible signs and symptoms or mortality among wild birds. —Debendra Dalai, Chief conservator of Forests, UTThe Animal Husbandry Department, UT, collected more than 200 samples from poultry farms, live markets, water bodies, etc, and sent these for testing. The results are expected in four-five days. The department said there was no cause of concern and there was no ban on poultry products in the city.Meanwhile, the Forest and Wildlife Department, UT, today received the guidelines relating to avian influenza from the Union Ministry of Environment, Forest and Climate Change. The department shared the guidelines with the Department of Animal Husbandry and Fisheries, UT, and the authorities concerned to take all precautionary measures to check the spread of virus in case of any eventuality in Chandigarh.Debendra Dalai, Chief Conservator of Forests, UT, said the forest field officials and all others concerned had been kept on a high alert to keep a strict vigil and look for possible signs and symptoms or mortality among wild birds.Considering the gravity of the matter, all bird watchers, volunteers and visitors to the lake and any other water bodies have been kept on high alert and asked to note any unnatural symptoms in the birds such as diarrhea, head tilt, paralysis, sluggish behaviour, etc.In case of noticing any such symptoms, they have been asked to report to the Department of Forest & Wildlife, Chandigarh, at its phone number 0172-2700217. Dalai requested the general public not to get panicked with any misleading information on bird flu or avian influenza in Chandigarh.The UT authorities are on their toes after more than 2,400 birds of different species were found dead in Pong Dam in Himachal Pradesh and over a lakh chickens died in poultry farms in the Barwala area of Panchkula district.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/4-more-birds-found-dead-at-sukhna-194656
07-01-2021||Gaurav Kanthwal||Rapid response teams for Dera Bassi, Kharar||Tribune News ServiceMohali, January 6The Mohali administration has received an advisory from the Director, Animal Husbandry Department, Punjab, for all zoos, wildlife parks, poultry farms and public in the district in view of the bird flu scare in the region.In the guidelines for the public, it has stressed that most strains of bird flu are mainly found in respiratory and gastrointestinal tract of the infected bird, and not in the meat.The department has urged the poultry farmers that ‘’unusual mortality in the farm should be reported to the Animal Husbandry Department immediately.’’For wholesalers and retailers, it states that waste and used water should not be thrown or spilled in public and in market places.Mohali ADC Aashika Jain said: “In addition to the Animal Husbandry advisory, the Northern Regional Disease Diagnostic Laboratory (RDDL), Jalandhar, has also sent an advisory regarding the preparedness to prevent the ingress of avian influenza. It has stressed on the readiness of PPE kits, disinfectants and chemicals.”Dr Sangeeta Toor, Deputy Director, Animal Husbandry Department, Mohali, has constituted rapid response teams (RRT) and posted a nodal officer at the district level. Two teams have been constituted at the tehsil level, one each in Dera Bassi and Kharar. Each team has two doctors, pharmacists and Class IV employees. Officials said sampling has not started yet in the district as they are waiting for further instructions.“As far as poultry is concerned, the Dera Bassi area has quite a sizable number of farms but otherwise their count is not very high in the district,” said Toor.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/rapid-response-teams-for-dera-bassi-kharar-194657
07-01-2021||Amit Bathla||Panchkula authorities failed to show urgency?||Tribune News ServicePanchkula, January 6Even though poultry birds have been dying in huge numbers at poultry farms in Barwala since December, there is no clarity yet behind the unusual mortalities with ‘passive’ response of the local authorities to the “unprecedented situation” being the main reason.Late, insufficient,wrong samplesSeveral weeks after the poultry farms started witnessing mass deaths of poultry birds, the Animal Husbandry and Dairying Department sent samples to the Regional Disease Diagnostic Laboratory (RDDL), Jalandhar, to ascertain the cause for mass deaths. The samples reached the lab on January 3.A senior official at the lab said the Haryana department had sent them 80 samples, including four carcasses, on Sunday and the samples were insufficient to detect the cause of deaths of lakhs of poultry birds in Barwala.He added that during the examination, they found many samples were taken from healthy birds.Toll confusionSources said the actual toll could be much higher than 4.30 lakh as confirmed by the Union Ministry of Health and Family Welfare today.Haryana Poultry Farmers’ Association president Darshan Singla has downplayed the situation. He said the mortality was comparatively less than the official figures and the fatalities were not because of bird flu.Dr Sukhdev Rathee, Deputy Director (Animal Welfare), Animal Husbandry and Dairying, Haryana, said he could not recall the last time when such high deaths were witnessed among poultry birds. Barwala is considered as Asia’s second largest belt with daily production capacity of more than 1 crore eggs.No impact on salesSingla said there was no impact on the sales due to the death of birds in Barwala and business was going as usual.4-member team takes fresh samplesMeanwhile, a four-member team, which had arrived in Barwala on Tuesday, continued its sampling drive on the second day today.Dr Mukesh Mittal of the visiting team said they collected around 50 samples of the deceased birds, including their blood, food and water, from several poultry farms in Barwala.“We had to stop sampling last evening due to rain. The samples will be tested and if found positive for avian influenza or bird flu, these will be sent to the Bhopal-based lab for confirmation as per standard protocol,” he said.After the first set of samples could not provide conclusive reports, the Jalandhar lab had dispatched it own team to Barwala to collect samples.Health Dept activeAt least four teams of the Panchkula Health Department are regularly conducting surveillance at poultry farms in Barwala and Raipur Rani towns to ensure no human transmission of any virus. More than 80 poultry farms have already been visited so far.Dr Sanjeev Goyal, Senior Medical Officer, said “In more than 80 poultry farms we have already surveyed, not even a single poultry worker was found to have developed influenza-like symptoms.”Confusion over Union ministry orderIn an order, the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare today confirmed avian influenza as the cause of death of birds in the Barwala poultry belt. However, it withdrew the order later. The order had created confusion among local officials, who called it an error.In the clarification, the ministry said, “As per order received from Haryana, a total of 4.30 lakh birds have died in Barwala in the past 25 days and the samples have been sent to designated laboratory for testing. The results are still awaited.”Central team to visit BarwalaLocal health officials said a central team would visit the Barwala poultry farms to keep a strict watch over the evolving scenario.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/panchkula-authorities-failed-to-show-urgency-194658
07-01-2021||Naina Mishra||Covishield trial volunteers to be offered vaccine again||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, January 6Those who have participated in the Covishield vaccine trials at the PGI will gain be offered a shot of the vaccine by the Serum Institute of India (SII) if their antibody levels are not satisfactory.After deliberations, the subject expert committee recommended for the grant of permission for restricted use in an emergency situation subject to certain regulatory conditions in India.A PGI doctor involved in the vaccine trials explains: “The vaccine has been approved for emergency usage in the country based on the data generated from the trials, which was found comparable with the data from the overseas clinical studies. The ongoing clinical trials at the PGI will also continue.”“After the conclusion of the trials, the Serum Institute of India will undertake a procedure to ascertain the candidates who have received a placebo so that they are not left out of the vaccination drive. Besides, those who had already received Covishield shots will be offered vaccination again if their antibody levels are not found to be satisfactory,” said the PGI doctor.The trials at the PGI are observer-blind, in which neither the doctors and nor the volunteers know who has received a placebo. A placebo, which is often a fake drug, is used in clinical trials for the psychological benefit of the volunteer.The vaccine can be stored at 2 to 8 degree centigrade (household refrigerator temperature) and has to be taken in two doses with intramuscular injections at a gap of 28 days. No side-effects were observed in volunteers during the Covishield trials at the PGI. Dr Jagat Ram, Director, PGI, said the trial for both doses was conducted successfully on 149 volunteers.The SII is conducting a Phase 2/3 bridge trials in India on 1,600 people. Global trials of the vaccine have been conducted by AstraZeneca, which developed the vaccine with Oxford University.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/covishield-trial-volunteers-to-be-offered-vaccine-again-194660
07-01-2021||Deepankar Sharda||Covid no hindrance — shuttlers use tech to better their fitness||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, January 6Winners of the recently concluded Chandigarh Badminton Championships are all praise for technology that helped them better their fitness during the Covid-induced lockdown.Vrinda Rana (17), who won the girls’ U-19 and doubles title, says there was no way she could have gained momentum if not for mobile phones, laptops and other gadgets. During the lockdown, she used to receive online fitness schedule daily from coaches, tracked her fitness routine, attended online coaching sessions and monitored her diet through technology.“First few months were hard and stressful. However, with the help of various mobile applications, I was not only able to track my fitness activities but also remained mentally calm,” said Vrinda, a trainee of the Sector 38 sports complex. “We used to get online training schedule and thereafter, we had to submit our performance on a weekly basis,” she said.On problems faced during the first tournament amid the pandemic, she said: “It was not easy to prepare for the championship. After the lockdown, it took me two months to gain back the momentum. During the initial matches, I took some time to settle down. However, now I feel good. I wish to play more championships now and adapt to the new normal,” said Vrinda.Another shuttler, Abhishek Saini (21), who won men’s singles, men’s doubles and mixed doubles titles, give credit to regular online interaction with his coaches. “Initial days were very tough. However, our coaches tracked our performance through online communication. On a daily basis, we used to attend physical fitness classes for two hours and in the evening, we would attend classes on how to improve foot-movement, choices of shots and other techniques with the help of videos available online. It helped us to stay attached to the sport” said Saini.“It was really tough to keep the players motivated during the pandemic. We had never used gadgets in the recent times to coach our players. However, now we are getting used to it. A basic training for fitness can be easily circulated among players. However, physical training has its own advantages and nothing can replace it,” said Surinder Mahajan, Secretary, Chandigarh Badminton Association, and former national coach.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/covid-no-hindrance-%E2%80%94-shuttlers-use-tech-to-better-their-fitness-194661
07-01-2021||---||AAP leader says Congress has double standards||Chandigarh, January 6Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) leader Chander Mukhi Sharma today flayed Congress leader Devinder Singh Babla for “double standards” on the issue of allowing mobile phones inside the MC House on the day of mayoral poll — January 8.Congress’ mayoral candidate Babla, who is also the Leader of the Opposition, had stated that they would ensure that no BJP councillor brought mobile phones to the House on the date of voting.Chander Mukhi said this exhibited the double standards of the party. He said when he was in the Congress, a senior leader used to direct the councillors to take mobile phones and click pictures to ensure they voted for the party candidate.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/aap-leader-says-congress-has-double-standards-194662
07-01-2021||Chandigarh||Identification of convicts by auto driver proved crucial||The CCTV footage and identification of murderers by an auto driver proved crucial in the conviction of the accused in the Kalka murder case.The court appreciated the efforts of public prosecutor Kapil Gaur for going through minutest of the details and placing correct position of law and Inspector Arvind for thorough investigations and collecting scientific evidence in the case.Initially, Inspector Arvind of the Crime Investigation Agency (CIA) only had a CCTV footage to start the investigations. There was a pressure on the police to crack down the murder case due to the brutality with which the murder was commited. In the CCTV footage, both murderers were wearing a mask, but after committing the crime and while robbing the jewellery, one of the accused, Iqbal Ahmed, had removed the mask and his face was visible. From the CCTV cameras outside the shop, an Innova car came under the police scanner.Finding the convicts“But neither the Innova’s number nor its colour was visible. Then we scanned the complete CCTV footage of shops and houses from Kalka to the Chandimandir toll plaza. Only half of the vehicle number could be established from the toll plaza footage,” he said. He zeroed in on the carriage at the top of the vehicle and “Om Sai Om” written on its windscreen.From the Dappar toll plaza, Inspector Arvind was successful in obtaining the entire registration number, DL4CAE-1449. Fortunately, the number was genuine. The raids were conducted and driver Jagdish Ram was apprehended on July 13, 2016. Later, Iqbal Ahmed and Mohammad Abid were also arrested from Ambala. It was found that they already had a criminal past.According to the court findings, Ram, Ahmed and Abid came on the intervening night of July 3 and July 4, 2016, from Delhi but didn’t attempt to enter the shop as it was raining. They stayed at a hotel in Dwara village. On the following night, after dropping Ahmed and Abid, Ram kept waited for them but he left later as they were taking time. After the murder and loot, Ahmed and Abid took an auto-rickshaw and reached the Kalka bus stand. Ahmed and Abid later took a bus from Kalka and met Ram at Ambala. From there, they left for Delhi. Auto-rickshaw driver Rana Sharma had identified the in the court. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/identification-of-convicts-by-auto-driver-proved-crucial-194663
07-01-2021||---||Four milk samples found adulterated||Mohali, January 6A milk consumer awareness camp was organised by the Punjab Dairy Development Board in Phase 4 under the leadership of Deputy Director (Dairy) Gurinderpal Singh Kahlon.Milk samples were brought by 39 consumers at the camp.The results of the test were given in writing on the spot. Dairy development inspector Mandeep Singh said 35 samples were found up to the standard, while four samples were found to contain water, but no other harmful substance was found.He said the milk samples contained urea, caustic soda and starch.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/four-milk-samples-found-adulterated-194664
07-01-2021||Chandigarh||Charanjiv Singh is new Beopar Mandal head||Charanjiv Singh was unanimously elected the president of the Chandigarh Beopar Mandal (CBM) today. The result was declared by Satpal Gupta, chairman, election committee. A certificate of declaration of the winner was presented to Singh, who was garlanded by former CBM president Anil Vohra. Charanjiv Singh complimented the unity in the CBM. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/charanjiv-singh-is-new-beopar-mandal-head-194665
07-01-2021||Amarjot Kaur||Passport applications dip by 51%||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, January 6Amidst the pandemic and fear of deadly Covid-19 virus, the application count at the Regional Passport Office (RPO), Sector 34, dipped by 50.8 per cent in 2020.In 2019, the RPO received 7,15,153 applications, which went down to 3,51,771 last year. The number of passports issued by the RPO too have halved this year.Regional Passport Officer Sibash Kabiraj has accounted travel restrictions and limited appointments after the Unlock 1.0 for the falling numbers.“During the lockdown period, all appointments were suspended. Though people could apply, only 50 per cent appointments reopened only in May-end. Owing to travel restrictions and the fear of virus, most people dropped their overseas plans,” said Kabiraj.Back in 2019, the RPO had issued 6,76,359 passports, whereas in 2020 the number dropped to 3,36,476. Interestingly, the Chandigarh RPO, which provides services to 12 districts in Haryana and 11 in Punjab, did not receive even a single application in April, 2020, during the lockdown. “In fact, we have received maximum number of passport applications from Ludhiana,” Kabiraj added.Also, in 2020, the RPO issued 19,159 police clearance certificates (PCC) and received 18, 741 PCC applications. In all, 99 surrender certificates were also issued in 2020.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/passport-applications-dip-by-51-194666
07-01-2021||Chandigarh||No afternoon  supply in city||The MC authorities have asked city residents to store adequate water in the morning on January 7 and 8 as there will be no water supply in the afternoon while water will be supplied at low pressure in the evening on the two days. However, there will be normal water supply on January 9.Water supply to be hit in MohaliMohali: The water supply will remain affected for two days in Phase 3B2, Sector 70-71, Mataur, Shahi Majra, Phase 9, 10, 11 and Industrial Area, Phase 1 to 5, due to repair work at the Kajauli waterworks being undertaken by the Chandigarh Municipal Corporation. On January 7 and 8, there will be no water supply in the afternoon. The supply in these areas will be at low pressure in the morning and evening. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/no-afternoon-supply-in-city-194667
07-01-2021||---||High Court fixes Jan 25 for Chandigarh Administration reply||Chandigarh, January 6Just about a fortnight after the Chandigarh Administration’s move to scrap “manual dumping carts” or rehris involved in door-to-door garbage collection came under the judicial scanner, the Punjab and Haryana High Court today fixed January 25 for reply by the UT and other respondents.Appearing before Justice Lisa Gill’s Bench, UT counsel Pankaj Jain submitted that the authorities concerned would make efforts to accommodate the garbage collectors by adjusting those with driving licences as drivers and helpers.Counsel APS Shergill and Harmanjit Singh Sethi, on the other hand, contended that the UT had no plans for their rehabilitation. A maximum of 300 garbage collectors could be adjusted, while their number was around 3,000.Seeking directions for junking the system that “illegally” prevented the garbage collectors in the city from earning their daily livelihood, the petitioners had earlier claimed that hundreds of garbage collectors in the city would be rendered jobless and left in the lurch.The petition filed by Shamsher Singh and 28 other petitioners through counsel Shergill and Sethi urged the court to issue directions, calling upon the Chandigarh Administration and other respondents to show cause how and why the policy mandating the replacement of rehris with motorised door-to-door garbage collection vehicles was set to be enforced without hearing/involving the stakeholders in the deliberation process or without even conducting a public hearing necessary under Article 14.Claiming that the move was in complete defiance of their basic fundamental rights, the petitioners also prayed for a stay and directions for restraining the respondents on the ground that door-to-door garbage collection was their only means of employment and source of income in the economically challenging times of Covid.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/high-court-fixes-jan-25-for-chandigarh-administration-reply-194669
07-01-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh sees 78 cases, 1 death||One death, 63 +ve in MohaliMohali: One person died of Covid-19, while 63 new cases were reported from the district on Wednesday. As many as 33 more patients have recovered from the virus. The district has so far seen 18,474 cases while 17,165 patients have been cured. — TNS34 new cases in PanchkulaPanchkula: The district on Wednesday reported 34 fresh Covid cases, taking the overall tally to 10,121. The Covid toll remained at 144. While 9,782 patients have recovered from the infectious disease so far, 195 cases are active. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-sees-78-cases-1-death-194674
07-01-2021||Dr SS Bhatnagar University Institute of Chemical Engineering and Technology||University conducts online workshop||Journal of English Dept releasedChandigarh: The Panjab University Vice-Chancellor, Prof Raj Kumar, released two issues of "Dialog", a biannual international journal of the department of English and cultural studies. The VC lauded the efforts of the team of the journal. Prof Deepti Gupta, editor of the journal, said the journal received more than 300 submissions, of which around 18 were published in each issue. TNSWebinar on fashion merchandisingThe University Institute of Fashion Technology & Vocational Development (UIFT & VD) organised a webinar, titled "Art of Fashion Merchandising", on Wednesday. Faculty members of the department and various colleges, research scholars and students of fashion technology attended the webinar. Dr Anu H Gupta, Chairperson of UIFT & VD, introduced the speaker, Mona, Business Head, Katbro Corporation Pvt Ltd,Greater Noida. TNSProf Devinder gets additional chargeProf Devinder Singh, Department of Laws, will look after the work of secretary to Panjab University Vice-Chancellor in addition to his own duties with immediate effect during leave period of Dr Muneeshwar Joshi. TNSMA (public Admn) 4th semester Result outPanjab University has announced the result of Master of Arts (Public Administration) 4th semester examination. TNSSCHOOL NOTESAmity International School, MohaliGrade VI students Nitin Bhardwaj, Yuktie Patil and Saanvi Bhargava unleashed their creativity while presenting solutions to the problems which we are facing during the pandemic, through the universal language of mime. The mime stressed that promoting good personal hygiene is the most basic yet powerful tool to fight the new strain of Covid-19 having a transmission rate of 70%. TNSShivalik Public School, ChandigarhStudents of classes VI, VII and VIII marked World Braille Day by participating in a webinar organised by their teachers. Around 400 students participated in it. The day commemorates the birth anniversary of Louis Braille, the man who invented Braille in 1809. The teachers sensitised the students to the importance of Braille as a means of communication in the full realisation of the human rights for visually impaired people. TNSAKSIPS-125 Smart School, KhararA clean environment is essential for the healthy living and it is our social and moral responsibility to make efforts to keep it clean by following the 3Rs - Reduce, Reuse & Recycle the waste. Taking this thinking forward, AKSIPS-125 conducted an online fancy dress competition where Class I students flaunted their garments that were made from recycled materials such as old newspapers, waste cans, bottles and vegetable leaves etc. The Principal, Jagjit Seikhon, appreciated the students' efforts. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/university-conducts-online-workshop-194677
07-01-2021||Chandigarh||Karate trials tomorrow||PUTA protest continuesChandigarh: The ongoing protest of the Panjab University Teachers' Association (PUTA) executive entered its 48th day on Wednesday. The protesters staged a dharna in front of the Vice-Chancellor's office and raised slogans against the authorities. Dr Mritunjay Kumar, president, PUTA, said their protest would continue. TNSNew lease of life for brain stroke patientMohali: A 56-year-old ex-serviceman got a new lease of life after he underwent a timely emergency surgery at Ivy Hospital recently. Ashok Kumar's left brain artery was blocked due to an acute brain stroke. Dr Harinder Singh Bedi, director of cardiovascular sciences, said through carotid-end arterectomy (CEA) surgery, the blockage was removed and the artery repaired. TNSAryan, Aditi win tennis c’shipChandigarh: Aryan Thakur and top seed Aditi emerged winners of the Roots-AITA Challenge Series (III) National Ranking Tennis Championship for boys and girls, respectively, at Zirakpur. In the boys’ U-18 final, Thakur registered a comeback win over Aditya Chauhan. Thakur, after facing a 4-6 defeat in the opening set, recovered in next two sets by logging 6-3 6-3 win. In the girls’ U-18 final, Aditi logged an easy 6-2 6-4 win over Riya Kaushik to grab the title. President of Mohali Lawn Tennis Association Manmohan Kohli and Major General HJ Singh, vice-president, presented awards to the winners. tnsNetball c’ship from January 17Chandigarh: The Netball Sports Promotion Association, Chandigarh, will organise the state sub-junior, junior and senior netball championship at Sri Guru Gobind Singh College, Sector 26, from January 17 to 19. Players born on or after April 1, 2005, and April 1, 2002, will be eligible to participate in the championship. For the senior category, there is no age bar. The interested teams can confirm their entries with the organisers. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/karate-trials-tomorrow-194684
07-01-2021||Chandigarh||Bar Council of India decides to scrap one-year LLM course||As the Bar Council of India (BCI) decided to scrap the one-year LLM course, introduced in 2013, Panjab University (PU) is now looking towards some drastic changes.As per notification issued by BCI Legal Education (Post Graduate, Doctoral, Executive, Vocational, Clinical and other Continuing Education) Rules, 2020, the postgraduate course—Master's degree (LLM) has to be of two years (completed in four semesters).The course (LLM) is offered at PU’s Department of Law and University Institute of Legal Studies and Regional Centre, Ludhiana.In what could be a major setback, PU was planning to introduce the same course through correspondence mode, starting this year. However, after this notification, PU has to abide by the new rules which would further lead to delay in developments.As per the notification, “A Master Degree Program in Law of one-year duration introduced in India in 2013(as per notification) by the University Grants Commission shall remain operative and valid until the Academic Session in which these Regulations are notified and implemented but not thereafter at any University throughout the country.”-LLB compulsory for further admissionThe notification also made a compulsory to have a three-year or five-year LLB will for taking admission to LLM course. “As per the Rules, a Master's degree in any specialized branch of Law offered in the Open System to any graduate, such as Business Law or Human Right, or International Trade Law without having LLB/BA LLB as the requisite entry-level qualification shall not be designated as LLM.-Limited seats, revenue setback for PUPU used to conduct entrance test for filling seats under LLM courses, which helped the institution generate revenue. Even the number of seats was limited, subjected to increase or decrease as per requirement after approval of PU senate and syndicate. However, after the introduction of these rules, a common entrance test will be conducted to fill-in limited seats.“Admission to LLM will be through Post Graduate Common Entrance Test in Law (PGCETL) to be conducted by the BCI. Until the PGCETL is introduced the present system followed by respective Universities shall be followed. After introduction, it (PGCETL) shall be mandatory to admit the students from the merit list of the Test,” stated the notification. It further added, “LLM degree obtained from a Foreign University, which has been prosecuted without an equivalent LLB degree shall not be equivalent to Indian LLM degree. One-year LLM obtained from any foreign University will not be considered equivalent to Indian LLM degree. However, one-year LLM degree obtained after an equivalent LLB degree from any highly accredited foreign university may entitle the person concerned to be appointed as a visiting professor in an Indian University for at least one year to consider such one-year LL.M. degree with one-year teaching experience as a Visiting Faculty/internee faculty/clinical faculty the Master degree obtained on one year term may be considered equivalent.”-No dissertation submission to Assistant Professors, maintain teacher: student ratioThe notification also directs that the dissertation should be now submitted to superior ranks of Assistant Professors. “The institution should also have a dedicated core faculty of not less than 10 of whom minimum 4 should be Professors/Associate Professors.” It has been also asked to maintain student: teacher ratio. “The conditions to be satisfied to offer an LLM course including student-teacher ratio not exceeding 1:10 and maximum student strength of 20 in each branch of specialization subject to maximum of 50 students’ overall in the LLM program of the institution.”The BCI will introduce two professional efficiency enhancement continuing education courses only for Advocates who are enrolled with any State Bar Council. The rules will come into force from the date notified by the BCI.-Promoting students to adopt teaching?Experts believe the changes announced may help law graduates to adopt the teaching profession in a very phased manner.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/bar-council-of-india-decides-to-scrap-one-year-llm-course-194517
