08-01-2021||---||BJP’s Ravi Kant Sharma elected Chandigarh Mayor||Chandigarh, January 8BJP’s councillor Ravi Kant Sharma became the new Chandigarh Mayor on Friday.He got 17 votes of the 24 polled during the elections held at the MC house today.Congress mayor candidate Devinder Singh Babla got only five votes.Two votes were declared invalid.While city MP Kirron Kher and councillor Heera Negi couldn’t attend the election because of poor health; lone SAD councillor Hardeep Singh boycotted voting.After Ravi Kant Sharma was declared Mayor, all five Congress boycotted the Senior Deputy Mayor and Deputy Mayor polls, alleging cameras were used during the polls by the BJP.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/bjps-ravi-kant-sharma-elected-chandigarh-mayor-195503
08-01-2021||Chandigarh||Cold weather conditions continue in Punjab, Haryana||Cold weather conditions continued to sweep Punjab and Haryana with Hisar turning out to be the coldest place on Friday.Hisar in Haryana recorded its low at 4.4 degrees Celsius, two degrees below normal.Chandigarh, the joint capital of Punjab and Haryana, recorded its low at 12.6 degrees Celsius, seven degrees above normal, an official of the India Meteorological Department said here.In Haryana, Ambala and Karnal experienced cold weather conditions at 10.5 and 8 degrees Celsius, up to four degrees above normal.The minimum temperatures at Narnaul, Rohtak, Bhiwani and Sirsa settled at 9.5, 9.4, 7.2 and 7.1 degrees Celsius respectively, up to five degrees above normal.In Punjab, Amritsar, Ludhiana and Patiala recorded their respective minimum temperatures at 10, 9.4 and 8.6 degrees Celsius, up to seven degrees above normal.The minimum temperatures of Pathankot, Adampur, Halwara, Bathinda, Faridkot and Gurdaspur were 12.6, 11.1, 11.8, 8, 11 and 9.2 degrees Celsius respectively.Dense fog was also witnessed at many places including Hisar, Karnal, Bhiwani, Ludhiana, Patiala and Gurdaspur, causing inconvenience to commuters. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/cold-weather-conditions-continue-in-punjab-haryana-195496
08-01-2021||Mohali||Carjackers target woman in Dera Bassi||Two unidentified persons today forcibly took away a Tata Tiago car from Dera Bassi along with a woman, who was waiting in the car. Nearly 5 km from the spot, the carjackers dumped her after taking a U-turn from the Dappar toll plaza.How it happenedSatvir Singh, investigating officer, said the incident took place near Sukhmani School around 1 pm. A couple, Rajeev Chand and his wife, had come to the school to deposit fee of their children. He said Rajeev had gone to the school, while his wife was waiting in the car. The keys of the car were inside it. He said a man came and sat on the driver’s seat, while another person sat on the rear seat and covered the mouth and hands of the woman. They then drove away with the woman and later dumped her.Satvir Singh, investigating officer, said the incident took place near Sukhmani School around 1 pm. The couple, Rajeev Chand and his wife, had come to the school to deposit fee of their children.He said Rajeev had gone to the school, while his wife was waiting in the car. The keys of the car were inside it. He said a man came and sat on the driver’s seat, while another person sat on the rear seat and covered the mouth and hands of the woman.He said they took the woman for nearly 5 km and after reaching the Dappar toll plaza, they took a U-turn after dumping the woman. He said both suspects did not have their faced covered and fled towards Dera Bassi. Dera Bassi SHO Satinder Singh said they were checking the CCTV footage of the Dappar toll plaza.He said the couple were residents of Dhandrala village in Dera Bassi. He said they had started investigations after registering a case against the unidentified suspects.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/carjackers-target-woman-in-dera-bassi-195291
08-01-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh bird toll up, 4 more found dead||As many as four more birds of different species were found dead in different areas of the city today. Nine birds, including a migratory bird, have been found dead in the city in the past three days.Prices of chicken fallAmid fear of bird flu, the prices of chicken and eggs have dropped marginally in the city. After the en masse death of poultry birds in Barwala, the prices of chickens have dropped by Rs20 per kg. A wholesaler said the price of chicken decreased from Rs200 per kg to Rs180 in the city. Similarly, the cost of 100 eggs also fell by nearly Rs100 in the wholesale market. Earlier, 100 eggs were sold for Rs620 to Rs650, but now these are being sold for nearly Rs550 per 100.Debendra Dalai, Chief Conservator of Forests, UT, said one bird each was found dead in Sukhna Lake, Maloya, Sector 36 and Leisure Valley. Two of them were crows and the others were a peacock and a cuckoo, he added. Dalai said a total of eight samples had so far been sent to the Regional Disease Diagnostic Laboratory, Jalandhar, to ascertain the reason of deaths. Surveillance has been increased at the lake and other water bodies and the forest area in the city, as a precautionary measure to check the spread of virus in case of any eventuality, he added.Dr Abdul Qayum, Deputy Conservator of Forests, UT, said search and rescue of dead birds had been launched in the Sukhna and the infected birds would be segregated. He said there was no need to panic as symptoms of bird flu were not observed so far in the birds.Four birds were found dead at regulator end of Sukhna Lake yesterday during patrolling by a team of the Department of Forest and Wildlife, UT, while a common coot was found dead in the lake on Tuesday evening.The Forest and Wildlife Department today installed five display boards at Sukhna Lake asking general public, bird watchers and volunteers to remain on high alert and note any unnatural symptoms in birds such as diarrheoa, tilting of head, paralysis and sluggish behaviour etc. In an event of noticing any such symptoms, they have been requested to report to the Department of Forest and Wildlife, UT, at 0172-2700217.Amid fear of avian influenza, the Animal Husbandry Department, UT, has decided to now collect routine samples from backyard poultry farms and water bodies every fortnight.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-bird-toll-up-4-more-found-dead-195344
08-01-2021||Panchkula||Panchkula Mayor Kulbhushan Goyal takes charge, says will keep word||New Mayor Kulbhushan Goyal today assumed his office at the Municipal Corporation building in Sector 14 in the presence of Haryana Speaker and local MLA Gian Chand Gupta.Goyal asserted that he would do his best to fulfil the poll promises with a special focus on removing encroachments, ending the stray dog/cattle menace and making the city plastic-free.He said he aimed to make Panchkula a clean, green and beautiful city.“Wedding ceremonies are a big driver of revenue. Hence, banquet hall owners will be attracted to invest in Panchkula,” he said.On rehabilitation of street vendors, Goyal said efforts were underway to provide a vending location comprising all basic requirements for their business.“Priority will be given to make the city free of stray cattle and dogs. For that, the Sukhdarshanpur cowshed will be inaugurated on January 14 with ‘the blessings’ of Haryana Speaker Gian Chand Gupta,” he said.Holds first meeting with civic body officialsAt his first meeting with MC officials, Goyal said encroachments in the city would not be tolerated at any cost. “Encroachments are thriving at a large scale, which leave no space for pedestrians to walk and motorists to park their vehicles in markets,” he said.The ways to improve the ranking of the city in the Swachh Survekshan-2021 was also discussed at the meeting.MC Commissioner RK Singh, MC Deputy Commissioner Deepak Sura and Executive Officer Jarnail Singh were among those present on the occasion.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/panchkula-mayor-kulbhushan-goyal-takes-charge-says-will-keep-word-195346
08-01-2021||Mohali||Dry run at 3 sites in Mohali district today||The district administration today identified three sites to conduct a dry run for the Covid-19 vaccination programme tomorrow.A meeting was held with the vaccination task force at the district administrative complex today to review pre-arrangements for the dry run.To begin at 9 amRajiv Kumar Gupta, Additional District Commissioner (D), said the dry run would be held at three sites — District Hospital Mohali, Indus Hospital and Community Health Centre, Banur, — from 9 am to 11.30 pm.Divulging further details, Rajiv Kumar Gupta, Additional District Commissioner (D), said the dry run would be held at three sites - District Hospital Mohali, Indus Hospital and Community Health Centre, Banur, - from 9 am to 11.30 pm.One death, 59 new cases in MohaliMohali: The district reported one more fatality due to Covid-19 during the past 24 hours, taking the total number of deaths to 350. Besides, 59 fresh cases surfaced till Thursday evening and 72 got better of the disease. Among the fresh cases, 41 came from Mohali (urban), one each from Banur, Dera Bassi, Kurali and Lalru, three from Gharuan, five from Dhakoli and six from Kharar. So far, the district has witnessed 18,533 cases and 17,237 recoveries. There are 946 active cases. TNSSharing the rationale behind the selection of sites, he said an urban and a rural government health facility and a private hospital had been selected so that fair assessment of vaccine roll out in different setups could be made.Gupta said the dry run was aimed at testing the laid out mechanisms for Covid vaccination roll-out in the district and assess gaps or bottlenecks, if any, so that those could be addressed before the final roll out of the Covid-19 vaccine. The entire vaccination drill would be conducted barring the administration of vaccine.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/dry-run-at-3-sites-in-mohali-district-today-195347
08-01-2021||Panchkula||Second mock exercise runs smooth in Panchkula||The second dry run for Covid-19 vaccination was held at six centres – three each in urban and rural areas - in Panchkula district today.The mock exercise was held at community health centres in Sector 16, 21, 26, Kalka, Pinjore and Barwala.As many as 25 beneficiaries - health workers - participated in the drive at each centre. Deputy Commissioner Mukesh Kumar Ahuja and Civil Surgeon Dr Jasjeet Kaur monitored the dry run.“A five-member team of a vaccinator officer and four vaccination officers were deployed at each centre,” Dr Kaur said.The staff members ensured that the participants received a text message on their registered mobile phone numbers.Kaur said the dry run was conducted to get familiar with challenges the staff might encounter during the actual drive.The first dry run of the state was held in Panchkula on January 2.As per officials, around 6,000 health care workers and frontline workers in Panchkula would be prioritised for mass vaccination programme.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/second-mock-exercise-runs-smooth-in-panchkula-195348
08-01-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh reports  two fatalities, 43 infections||The city today reported 43 fresh coronavirus cases, taking the UT tally to 20,147. The city also witnessed two Covid deaths.A 38-year-old man from Khuda Lahora, a case of acute respiratory distress syndrome and acute renal failure, died at the PGI.A 67-year-old man from Sector 63, who was suffering from type 2 diabetes mellitus and hypertension, died at Fortis Hospital, Mohali.The Covid toll now stands at 325.A total of 57 more patients recovered from the infectious disease in the past 24 hours.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-reports-two-fatalities-43-infections-195349
08-01-2021||Chandigarh||Three rape cases registered in Chandigarh||Three rape cases were registered at different police stations in the city.A 20-year-old youth, identified as Abhimanyu, has been arrested for raping a 17-year-old girl.Sources said the victim had complained of stomach pain after which she was taken to the Civil Hospital, Mani Majra, where doctors revealed that she was pregnant. On being questioned, the victim told about the suspect, who was known to her.The police have registered a case at the Mani Majra police station and initiated an investigation into the matter.In another case, the complainant, a resident of Chandigarh, alleged that she met the suspect, Karanveer Khullar, a native of Muktsar, at a gym in Sector 9. The duo became friends and exchanged numbers.The victim alleged that on July 3 last year, the suspect raped her at a hotel in Sector 17 on the pretext of marrying her.The victim submitted a complaint with the police, following which a case was registered at the Sector 17 police station. An investigation has been initiated into the matter.In yet another case, a native of Himachal Pradesh has been arrested for raping a woman on the pretext of helping her in getting a job.The police said the suspect, identified as Harish, met the victim at the ISBT, Sector 43, earlier this month and took her to his room in Balongi, where she was raped.The police the suspect was earlier booked for rape by the Himachal Police in 2013 and imprisoned for seven years. He was released last year after completing the imprisonment.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/three-rape-cases-registered-in-chandigarh-195350
08-01-2021||Mohali||Mohali firm manager held, owner booked for fraud||The Mohali police have arrested the manager of a city-based company and booked its owner for defrauding people of several lakhs of rupees on the pretext of providing jobs.The suspects have been identified as Nitin, a resident of Pehowa in Kurukshetra district and the owner of Weft Technology Company, Sector 70, Mohali, and Harwinder Singh, a resident of Aluna Bana village near Payal in Ludhiana district and the manager of the company.Diksha, in her complaint to the police, alleged that she had uploaded her resume on a job portal. On December 5, she received a call from the office of Weft Technology Company in Sector 70, Mohali, to appear for an interview on December 7. She said the accused asked her to give Rs4,500 in cash and transfer Rs10,000 online. She alleged that the accused did not provide her job and instead demanded Rs8,000 more from her.After receiving the complaint, Deputy Superintendent of Police Pal Singh handed over the investigation to the Economic Offences Wing of the Mohali police led by Inspector Amardeep Singh.The investigation revealed that Nitin and Harwinder used to download the resume of several youths and contact them on their mobile phones. The accused had duped several youths of lakhs of rupees on the pretext of providing jobs. A case under Sections 406, 420, 465, 467, 468, 471 and 120-B of the IPC has been registered. The owner of the firm was absconding.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/mohali-firm-manager-held-owner-booked-for-fraud-195351
08-01-2021||---||Irregularities found at Sector 51 petrol pump||The UT Vigilance Department today made a surprise check at a petrol pump operated by the MC in Sector 51 here after receiving a tip-off about pilferage. Vigilance sleuths reportedly found some irregularities.“We have found some irregularities. A report will be prepared and necessary action will be taken,” said a Vigilance source. The Vigilance Department has also seized some documents for verification. The report will be submitted to the UT Chief Vigilance Officer.The petrol pump was inaugurated by UT Administrator VP Singh Badnore in October last year.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/irregularities-found-at-sector-51-petrol-pump-195352
08-01-2021||Chandigarh||Kathak virtuoso regales audience at dance fest||Kathak virtuoso Shobha Koser regaled the audience with her graceful movements and fine footwork on the inaugural day of the Chandigarh Classical Dance Festival 2021 at Tagore Theatre here today.The programme commenced with vandana in different ragas for Lord Ganesha, Maa Saraswati, guru and nature. It was dedicated to eminent vocalist late Pt Keshav Talegaonkar. All compositions in this vandana were composed by him and sung by his daughter Shubhra Talegaonkar.This presentation was followed by Kathak dance of Jaipur Gharana in which Shobha presented ‘gat’, ‘nikas thaat’, ‘paran’, ‘chakradar paran’ and ‘ladi’, followed by beautiful ‘thumri’ in ‘raga kalawati’ with bol “aiso hathilo chhaila”.The recital concluded with a bhajan “Hey Govind Rakho Sharan”. Koser made a winning partnership with Pandit Madho Prasad on vocals and Fateh Singh Gangani on tabla, Mehmood Khan on table and Saleem Kumar on sitar.Swift on her feet, Shobha Koser, 76, displayed some energy moving between singing and dancing, taking along artistes and audience alike. Her granddaughter Shubhra Koser, who was in the audience, said: “Look at her, she is not out of breath. She is doing magic on the stage.”Organised by the North Zone Cultural Centre, Patiala, the four-day festival will have performances by Nandita Puri, Suchitra Mitra and Samira Koser.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/kathak-virtuoso-regales-audience-at-dance-fest-195353
08-01-2021||Chandigarh||CHB gets first rank||The Chandigarh Housing Board bagged the first rank in the country for slum rehabilitation programme under the theme, “Housing, Urban Poverty and Infrastructure”. The award, presented by HUDCO, comprises of Rs1 lakh and a certificate.The certificate was presented to Yashpal Garg, Chief Executive Officer, CHB, by Akash Tyagi, Regional Chief, HUDCO, and Harjot, joint GM of HUDCO, today. Rajeev Singla, chief engineer, and Ruchi Singh Bedi, secretary of the CHB, were also present. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chb-gets-first-rank-195354
08-01-2021||Mohali||Supreme Court serves notice on Punjab Govt||The Supreme Court today served a notice on the Punjab Government over the notification regarding the delimitation of wards in Mohali and asked the state to file a reply in two weeks.Former SAD councillor Sukhdev Singh Patwari and former BJP councillor Bachan Singh had filed a petition challenging the delimitation of wards in Mohali. The elections for 50 wards in the Mohali Municipal Corporation were earlier scheduled to be held by the third week of February this year.Petitioners' claimRejecting the delimitation of wards report submitted by the Mohali MC, the petitioners, who are SAD and BJP councillors, alleged that the delimitation had been done to oust them from the MC elections. They further claimed that most of the wards held by SAD and BJP councillors had been displaced.While hearing the petition that challenged the dismissal orders of the Punjab and Haryana High Court, the apex court Division Bench of Chief Justice Sharad Arvind Bobde, Justice AS Bopanna and Justice V Ramasubramanian directed the Local Bodies Department, Punjab, to file a reply.Petitioners Sukhdev Patwari and Bachan Singh said they had approached the Supreme Court after their writ petition was dismissed by the HC and now the apex court has served a notice on the Punjab Government to file a reply in two weeks. They said they had proved their point in the court that delimitation of wards was not done as per the rules and many wards had been divided and merged arbitrarily.The report on the delimitation of the wards report was submitted to the Punjab Government on October 29, after which the government notified MC elections to be held for 50 wards out of which 25 were reserved for women candidates.Rejecting the report on delimitation of wards submitted by the Mohali Municipal Corporation, the petitioners alleged that the delimitation had been done to oust them from the MC elections. They claimed that most of the wards held by former SAD and BJP councillors had been displaced. Now, either the former councillors will forgo their candidature or they will have to shift their wards.There are 1.87 lakh voters of whom 25,000 belong to the Scheduled Castes. There are 42 general category seats, of which 22 are for women. Five seats have been reserved for SC/ST-OBC candidates, three for women (SC), three for men (SC) and two for men (BC).||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/supreme-court-serves-notice-on-punjab-govt-195355
08-01-2021||Panchkula||Farm owners doubt official chicken toll||The owners of poultry farms in the Barwala-Raipur Rani belt have raised a serious doubt over the official chicken toll, saying the figure appears to be too low.The official figures say approximately 4.37 lakh birds have died due to a mysterious disease at Barwala since December. Pramod Pandey of Nature Poultry Farm, located in Dandlawar village of Raipur Rani tehsil, claimed he lost around 1 lakh birds in the past one month.“Now, we are left with only less than 15,000. The number of birds is gradually decreasing with 300-325 mortalities every day. We have no clue to the reason behind such a high mortality among poultry birds. The mysterious disease has swept through a majority of poultry farms in the region and almost every farm is hit,” he said.“Our poultry farm witnessed the daily mortality of less than 50 on December 21 to as high as 25,000 on December 25. Earlier, we thought it could be because of extreme weather conditions and E. coli, but the fatality count is unusual,” Pandey stated.The situation was worse at Rajeev Poultry Farm where the entire population of birds died within a period of one month. “On December 1, we had a livestock of around 98,000, including 60,000 layer chickens. By December 30, the farm was left with only 400-500 birds,” said Dr Rajeev Kumar Modi, promoter of the farm.He added that now, the death rate of birds was going down as they were being inoculated with a vaccine, ND Pullet Castle, so that they develop adequate antibody to fight against the infection.Raipur Rani and Barwala, which is considered as Asia’s largest belt with daily production capacity of over 1 crore eggs, have around 140 poultry farms, employing over 10,000 people.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/farm-owners-doubt-official-chicken-toll-195356
08-01-2021||Panchkula||Bird flu: Task force to keep tabs on situation in Panchkula||Deputy Commissioner Mukesh Kumar Ahuja has formed a district-level task force to keep a watch on the evolving situation at poultry farms in Barwala and Raipur Rani where 4.37 lakh birds have died of a mysterious disease within a month.Sample report may be out by eveningThe task force includes officials from the Health Department, Animal Husbandry Department and Police Department, and other block-level officers. A meeting of the task force will be held for the first time tomorrow.The authorities have also made an isolation centre at the Community Health Centre in Raipur Rani if there was a case of influenza-like symptoms. Besides, Tamiflu tablets have been procured.A rapid response team of the Central Government arrived here today to assess the situation amid the bird flu fear due to unusual number of dead poultry birds.The team comprising two officials of the National Centre for Disease Control (NCDC), one from the PGI, Chandigarh, and a Regional Director (Government of India) held discussions with the district authorities, including the Deputy Commissioner.The four-member team will be visiting the affected areas tomorrow to assess whether there was any impact of unusual mortalities of birds on human life.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/bird-flu-task-force-to-keep-tabs-on-situation-in-panchkula-195357
08-01-2021||Fatehgarh Sahib||10 women help desks come up at Fatehgarh Sahib||To ensure women-friendly atmosphere at police stations, the district police have set up 10 help desks at Saanjh Kendras in the district. Women officers have been deployed as head of the desks so that women could lodge their complaints without any fear or hesitation.“A friendly and safe environment for women will be ensured at these help desk and all complaints of women will be resolved on a priority basis,” said SSP Amneet Kondal while interacting with the media after inaugurating a new help desk at the Fatehgarh Sahib Saanjh Kendra today.She said it was a memorable decision and now, women won’t have to visit any police station to lodge complaints regarding atrocities against them.She said DSP Manjot Kaur had been deputed as a nodal officer for the women help desks in the district, whereas SP (H) Harpal Singh would look after the desks. She said the heads of each women help desk would be accompanied by two Punjab Police women employees, who would help in resolving the cases. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/10-women-help-desks-come-up-at-fatehgarh-sahib-195358
08-01-2021||Chandigarh||CHB carries out demolition at Indira Colony, BJP holds protest||Despite a protest by leaders of the BJP, the Chandigarh Housing Board (CHB) today carried out a demolition drive in Indira Colony.The CHB demolished unauthorised constructions of two houses at Indira Colony. In both cases, the challans to stop further constructions and remove the fresh violations were issued in March and October 2020, but these were not complied with by the allottees. The CHB is computing the cost of demolitions that will be recovered from the allottees and in the case of non-payment, their allotment is liable to be cancelled.Yashpal Garg, CEO, CHB, said to ensure effective actions against illegal or un-authorised constructions, the CHB was adopting a zero tolerance policy.He said the enforcement squad was daily inspecting all sectors to identify fresh violations/alternations and effective actions are taken in each of such case. On-the-spot challans were being issued by the enforcement squad with the direction to immediately stop further construction.State BJP general secretary Rambir Bhatti and councillor Vinod Aggarwal, along with party workers, were detained by the police. They were released after the drive was over. Later, BJP leaders protested outside the CHB office demanding that all notices sent to CHB allottees for violations should be withdrawn immediately.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chb-carries-out-demolition-at-indira-colony-bjp-holds-protest-195359
08-01-2021||Chandigarh||Board allocates flats to 37 after draw of lots||As many as 37 persons were today allotted flats by the Chandigarh Hosing Board (CHB). Computerised draw for the allotment of dwelling units was held on the CHB premises for 37 persons, who were declared eligible by the Estate Office.The draw was held under the supervision of Nitika Pawar, Special Secretary, UT Administration. Immediately after the draw, result has been uploaded on the official website of the CHB, www.chbonline.in.As many as 22 persons were allotted flats at Maloya, 12 under the Small Flat Scheme and three persons were allotted flats under the Oustee Scheme.Yashpal Garg, Chief Executive Officer, CHB, said allotment letters to these 37 persons would be issued within this week. Thereafter, physical possession would be handed over on the completion of required formalities. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/board-allocates-flats-to-37-after-draw-of-lots-195360
08-01-2021||Chandigarh||ITBP retired dogs undergo surgery||In a unique gesture of compassion towards retired K-9 warriors, two dogs that had served with the Indo-Tibetan Border Police (ITBP) were operated upon for the removal of tumours in their bodies.Lipsy, a veteran of ITBP’s Afghanistan deployment, was operated upon for abdominal tumour while Impressive Desire, who had saved jawans from four ambushes during anti-naxal operations, was treated for breast cancer. Desire had mammary tumour. Deputy Commandant Rajender Joshi performed the surgery at the ITBP’s centre for dogs. She is now reportedly moving around on her own on the center’s campus. Lipsy was suffering from pain. A golf-ball size tumour was removed during the surgery by Deputy Commandant Anoop Nayak. Lipsy is now recuperating at ITBP’s 22 Battalion. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/itbp-retired-dogs-undergo-surgery-195361
08-01-2021||Mohali||Tents set up for farmers’ help removed, pitched again in Mohali Ph VII market||Resentment prevailed among the farming community over alleged dismantling of tents for the farmer support camp at the Phase VII market here by the police.Addressing the media here today, leaders of Punjab Kisan Union, Kanwaljit Singh and Amandeep Singh, said the camp tents had been dismantled by the police.They said when they took the matter with the SSP, the latter said no such order had been issued after which the tents were installed again. They demanded that the government should clarify at whose behest the police were working to stop the campaign for the farmers.They said some courageous youngsters of the district had been organising farmer support camps at the Phase VII market in the city to make people aware of the “black laws”. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/tents-set-up-for-farmers-help-removed-pitched-again-in-mohali-ph-vii-market-195362
08-01-2021||Mohali||Mohali schools see 40% attendance on Day 1||To ensure safety of children, parents visited schools with their wards to check the facilities being provided by schools on the first day of reopening. The district witnessed more than 40 per cent attendance in schools today.Manpreet Mangat, Headmistress, Government High School, Landran, said 68 per cent students, along with their parents, had visited the school today. She said the parents interacted with teachers about the precautions being taken in view of the pandemic. She said attendance in Classes IX to XII had gone up to 90 per cent and added that extra classes were being organised for the board class students.Girish Dayalan, Deputy Commissioner, said it was the first day for students of Classes V to VIII at government schools and the overall turnout was a bit low (close to 40 per cent). However, some schools witnessed attendance close to 100 per cent.However, many schools, including GHS, Mianpur, GHS, Jayanti Maji, GSSS, Mullanpur, GSSS, Hasanpur, witnessed low to nil attendance. The DC said high school classes from XI to XII were already functional and attendance had improved in the past three weeks to 60 to 70 per cent.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/mohali-schools-see-40-attendance-on-day-1-195363
08-01-2021||Chandigarh||MC bags energy efficiency award||The Chandigarh MC)has got the first prize in the Municipality Sector of the National Energy Conservation Award.The award will be presented during the 30th National Energy Conservation Awards-2020 function to be held on January 11. RK Singh, Minister of State for Power and New and Renewable Energy and Minister, will be the chief guest“The MC efforts are commendable for earning this coveted national award. Efforts of the MC in replacing entire street lights with energy efficient LED lights in the city are really praiseworthy,” said Vinod Vashisht, convener, City Forum of Residents Welfare Organisations. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/mc-bags-energy-efficiency-award-195364
08-01-2021||Chandigarh||Five booked for setting shop afire||Panjab University declares MBA resultsChandigarh: Panjab University declared the results of Master of Business Administration (General) - semester II. Results can be seen at respective departments/colleges or PU’s website. TNSFood samples collectedPatiala: Officials of the Health Department on Thursday collected 11 samples of eatables from various ‘kiryana’ stores and bakeries in Patiala city and Devigarh town. The samples will be sent for checking at respective labs and the departments would take an action against shop owners if the samples fail the quality test. TNSNo entrance for IAS centreChandigarh: The PU has announced scrapping of entrance examination for IAS (preliminary) batch starting from February 2, said Dr Sonal Chawla, Honorary Director. “This is for the information of students and public in general that in view of Covid-19, the Centre for IAS and other Competitive Examinations, PU, has scrapped the entrance examination for IAS (preliminary) batch,” said Sonal. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/five-booked-for-setting-shop-afire-195365
