09-01-2021||Chandigarh||50 new Covid cases recorded in Chandigarh||The COVID-19 death toll in Chandigarh rose to 327 on Saturday with one more fatality, while 50 new cases pushed the infection count to 20,251 a medical bulletin issued here said.It said an 85-year-old man died of COVID-19.There are 228 active cases as of now, the bulletin said.A total of 59 patients were discharged after they recovered from infection, taking the overall recoveries to 19,696, as per bulletin.A total of 1,91,673 samples have been taken for testing so far and of them, 1,70,482 have tested negative while reports of 82 samples were awaited, the bulletin added. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/50-new-covid-cases-recorded-in-chandigarh-196143
09-01-2021||Gaurav Kanthwal||SAD releases first list of 28 candidates for Mohali MC elections||Tribune News ServiceMohali, January 9The Shiromani Akali Dal on Saturday released the first list of 28 candidates for the Mohali MC elections.Preetinderjit Kaur will be the party’s candidate from ward No. 1, Harmanpreet Singh Prince from ward No. 2, Satnam Kaur Sohan from ward No. 3, Kuldeep Kaur Kang from ward No. 5, Inderpreet Kaur Prince from ward No. 6, Arjan Singh Shergill from ward No. 8, Parmjit Singh Kahlon from ward No. 10, Suresh Kumari from ward No. 13, Manjit Singh Lubana from ward No. 16, Harwinder Kaur from ward No. 17 and Dr Tanmeet Kaur Sahiwal from ward No. 18, the party stated.Birdevinder Singh has been nominated for ward No. 20, while Amar Kaur Tasimbli will contest from ward No. 25.Ravinder Singh Bindra will be the party’s candidate from ward No. 26, Ramandeep Kaur from ward No. 28, Kuldeep Kaur Dhanoa from ward No. 29, Jasvir Kaur Atli from ward No. 30, Sarbjit Kaur Sidhu from ward No. 31, Surinder Singh Road from ward No. 32, Harjinder Kaur Sohana from ward No. 33, Sukhdev Singh Patwari from ward No. 34, Rajinder Kaur Kumbhra from ward No. 35, Ramesh Prakash Kamboj from ward No. 36, Kamaljit Kaur from ward No. 40, Rajinder Kaur from ward No. 43,Taranjot Singh Pahwa from ward No. 44, Manjit Kaur from ward No. 45 and Iqbalpreet Singh Prince will be party candidate from ward No. 48 of Mohali.SAD president Sukhbir Singh Badal had constituted a committee for Mohali MC elections with Prof. Prem Singh Chandumajra as its chairman and NK Sharma, Charanjit Singh Brar and Kamaljit Singh Ruby among its members.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/sad-releases-first-list-of-28-candidates-for-mohali-mc-elections-196137
09-01-2021||Chandigarh||COVID-19 vaccination drive at 8 sites in Chandigarh from January 16||The Health Department, UT, is prepared for the launch of the COVID-19 vaccination programme at eight-session sites from January 16, as per the guidelines issued by the Government of India.The dry runs or mock drills have been conducted at all the sites where the vaccination is to be done in the city.The Principal Secretary of Health, Arun Gupta, along with Commissioner Municipal Corporation, KK Yadav, and Deputy Commissioner, Mandeep Brar, visited the GMSH 16 to review the site preparedness in regard to operational aspects.The Director of Health Services apprised the Principal Secretary of Health regarding the vaccination teams, Cowin digital portal, cold chain points, and the micro plans for the launch of the vaccine programme.The officers took a round of the COVID-19 vaccination centre, and appreciated the efforts made by the department.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/covid-19-vaccination-drive-at-8-sites-in-chandigarh-from-january-16-196114
09-01-2021||Chandigarh||Cold weather conditions persist in Punjab, Haryana||Cold weather conditions prevailed in Punjab and Haryana on Saturday even though the minimum temperatures in the region hovered above normal levels.Common capital Chandigarh recorded a low of 10.8 degrees Celsius, five notches above normal, an official of the India Meteorological Department said here.Amritsar, Ludhiana and Patiala in Punjab recorded their respective minimums at 9.4 degrees Celsius, 10.7 degrees Celsius and 10.3 degrees Celsius, up to six notches above normal for this part of the year, the weather office said.The minimum temperatures of Pathankot, Adampur, Bathinda, Faridkot and Gurdaspur settled at 11.6 degrees Celsius, 8.7 degrees Celsius, 6.3 degrees Celsius, 7.5 degrees Celsius and 8.8 degrees Celsius respectively, it added.In Haryana, Ambala, Hisar and Karnal experienced cold weather conditions at 9.6 degrees Celsius, 7.2 degrees Celsius and 9.6 degrees Celsius, up to three degrees above normal, the Met said.The minimum temperatures of Narnaul, Rohtak, Bhiwani and Sirsa settled at 10.5 degrees Celsius, 10.8 degrees Celsius, 8.8 degrees Celsius and 7.2 degrees Celsius respectively, up to six degrees above normal, it added.There was fog in Ambala, Patiala, Pathankot, Bathinda, Ludhiana and Sirsa. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/cold-weather-conditions-persist-in-punjab-haryana-196031
09-01-2021||Sandeep Rana||BJP’s Ravi Kant Mayor; Sidhu, Farmila deputies||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, January 8Ruling BJP’s Senior Deputy Mayor Ravi Kant Sharma today rose up the ladder to become the new Mayor of Chandigarh.Know your MayorHe got 17 of the 24 votes polled by councillors through the secret ballot during the mayoral elections here today. His rival from the Congress, Devinder Singh Babla, could get only five votes. BJP’s former ally SAD’s lone councillor Hardeep Singh boycotted the poll. Two votes were declared invalid.Besides, local MP Kirron Kher, who is an ex officio member of the House, and BJP councillor Heera Negi did not come due to ill-health.After Ravi Kant was declared the Mayor, all five Congress councillors boycotted the subsequent elections of Senior Deputy Mayor and Deputy Mayor alleging that the saffron party councillors used cameras while voting for the Mayor. City Congress president Pardeep Chhabra alleged that the councillors took “much time” while voting as they were clicking pictures to show their party that they voted for Ravi. Babla alleged that they had hidden cameras/phones under their jackets. The charge was vehemently denied by the BJP, saying that the Congress was doing it to save its face. This is the BJP’s fifth and last Mayor of the current MC House, which will go to the polls by the end of this year. Ravi replaced incumbent Mayor Raj Bala Malik.Sidhu, Farmila make a clean sweep Meanwhile, ruling BJP councillors Maheshinder Singh Sidhu and Farmila were elected Senior Deputy Mayor and Deputy Mayor, respectively. They made a clean sweep bagging all 19 votes of the members present in the House.SAD councillor remembers farmersCity SAD president and councillor Hardeep Singh asked the House members to stand and pay respect to the farmers who died during the ongoing agitation. Besides him, only BJP councillor Gurpreet Singh Dhillon stood up.Will take action over invalid votes: GautamCity BJP incharge Dushyant Gautam said they would act against the two coucillors, whose votes were found invalid. “They have been voting in the House for five years; how come they do not know how to vote,” he said. City BJP president Arun Sood said a committee would be formed to look into the issue.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/bjps-ravi-kant-mayor-sidhu-farmila-deputies-195982
09-01-2021||Ravi Kant Sharma||Pending projects, waste segregation on his mind||Firstly, I will ensure we successfully implement the waste segregation in the entire city. Hopefully, we will resolve issues related to this in a day or two. Besides, I will accord priority to completing the projects initiated by our four previous Mayors.We have already raised the earning of the civic body from Rs170 crore in 2017 to Rs325 crore now. Besides, we will surely get more funds from the Centre.Tenders have been allotted for all road recarpeting works. Just after the winter season, all road works will be carried out in a phased manner.We will work on providing relief to the residents.No, there is no factionalism in the BJP. See, all our councillors voted for the party. Besides, I will take everybody along for the betterment of the city.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/pending-projects-waste-segregation-on-his-mind-195988
09-01-2021||Amit Bathla||It’s official — bird flu killed 4.37 lakh chickens in Barwala||Tribune News ServicePanchkula, January 8Finally, it was confirmed today that avian influenza (H5N8) or bird flu killed more than 4.37 lakh poultry birds in Barwala and Raipur Rani of Panchkula, putting all speculations of extreme weather conditions or Ranikhet disease as the reason behind the unusual fatalities to rest.Nine survey teamsNine teams of the Health Department will conduct a survey in villages around the two hotspots to keep a vigil on human transmission of avian influenza. The villages identified for the survey are Tibbi Majra, Badona Kallan, Kheri, Haryoli, Garhi Kotaha, Dandrawal, Pyarewala, Firojpur and Haripur.After apparent attempts by the district authorities to keep the mysterious disease (before it was declared bird flu) under wraps, two of the three samples sent to High Security Animal Disease Laboratory in Bhopal tested positive for H5N8.The reports of at least three samples taken from SKM Poultries in Mouli village (Raipur Rani) came negative.Five samples collected by a team of the Northern Regional Disease Laboratory, Jalandhar, from the Barwala belt also tested positive. A source at the laboratory said the samples would reach the Bhopal-based lab by tomorrow evening for confirmation as per protocol. The Barwala belt is considered Asia’s second largest poultry belt with a daily production capacity of 1 crore eggs. Two epicentres of the bird flu were identified as Siddharth Poultry Farm in Kheri village (Raipur Rani) and Nature Poultry Farm in Ganauli village (Raipur Rani).Surprisingly, there were no signs of immediate control, prevention and containment even hours after the confirmation of the disease in the region, with no restriction on the movement of people. The bird culling operations will be done in the 1-km radius of the epicentres of the disease, declared as infected zone. The culling will start tomorrow at 7 am.A 10-km surveillance zone — 0-3km active surveillance and 3-10 km passive surveillance — has also been declared where all shops and market dealing with poultry products and eggs will be closed till completion of culling and sanitisation operations. At least 59 response teams will cull 1.66 lakh birds in five poultry farms — Siddharth (1,728 birds), Narender (38,196 birds), Naveen (59,933 birds), Sunil (50,271 birds) and Nature (16,000 birds). The poultry farm owners will be compensated at Rs90 per bird.The movement of birds has also been restricted from these poultry farms.Animal husbandry officials claimed check-posts had been set up in the infected areas. Meanwhile, the Health Department has launched a survey and awareness campaign in and around the infected areas in the district. Tamiflu tablets are being distributed to workers in poultry farms. Tamiflu is typically taken for 10 days – 1 tablet per day.People are being screened for fever and other symptoms. Those developing influenza-like symptoms will be isolated at the Community Health Centre in Raipur Rani. Officials said the H5N8 virus was not fatal for human beings. However, mutations might occur and the virus could be transmitted to human beings.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/its-official-%E2%80%94-bird-flu-killed-4-37-lakh-chickens-in-barwala-195989
09-01-2021||Mohali||Rumble strips on Airport Road killer spot||Rumble strips have come up on both sides of the S-curve near Sector 70 to slow down vehicles on this killer spot on Airport Road. Signage near the rumble strip has been installed and reflectors will also be installed soon. As of now, a traffic cop has been deputed at the spot to keep an eye on speeding vehicles.Woman, daughter were crushed to deathThe action followed after a 43-year-old woman and her 14-year-old daughter of Bathinda were crushed to death under a tipper at this stretch on December 4.SP (Traffic), Mohali, Gurjot Singh Klaer said, ‘’I had submitted a report to the GMADA Chief Engineer about this spot and he acted immediately to make it a safe stretch. It is a joint effort of the Mohali traffic police and GMADA.The action followed after a 43-year-old woman and her 14-year-old daughter of Bathinda were crushed to death under a tipper at this stretch on December 4. According to the police, the incident took place around 4 pm when the victims were going towards Kharar from Sohana on their scooty. At a sharp curve near Mata Gujri Gurdwara, a major black spot on Airport Road, a sand-ladden tipper hit their two-wheeler, following which they lost control and fell on the road.The Tribune had highlighted the issue, ‘Fatalities on rise, Airport Road turns motorists’ nightmare’, on December 8.The 17.5-km stretch of Airport Road connecting the Mohali-Kharar road with the Zirakpur-Patiala road has more than 10 black spots which snuff out lives recurrently. Frequent users of this road aver that there are design flaws in the curves near the Sohana gurdwara.Civil engineers are of the view that the fatal curves need to be straightened with widening of the road, but the district administration and GMADA have been unable to persuade all stakeholders. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/rumble-strips-on-airport-road-killer-spot-195990
09-01-2021||Chandigarh||Youth dies in car crash||A 23-year-old youth was killed after his car hit a pole near the Sector 4 petrol station last night. The victim has been identified as Anant Gurpal Singh, son of Sant Pritpal Singh, of the Gursagar Sahib gurdwara near Sukhna Lake.Sources said the victim had left home for some work around 8 pm. While returning, his car hit a pole that left him seriously injured.The airbags of the car were deployed due to the accident.The police were informed and the injured was rushed to the PGI where doctors declared him brought dead.The police have initiated inquest proceedings into the matter at the Sector 3 police station. Sources said the victim’s cremation would take place after his sister, who stays abroad, arrives. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/youth-dies-in-car-crash-195991
09-01-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh sees 54 new cases of Covid||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-sees-54-new-cases-of-covid-195992
09-01-2021||Mohali||62 fresh cases, no death in Mohali||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/62-fresh-cases-no-death-in-mohali-195993
09-01-2021||Panchkula||34 more test +ve in Panchkula dist||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/34-more-test-ve-in-panchkula-dist-195994
09-01-2021||Naina Mishra||City to get 21,000 doses of Covid vaccine within 2 days||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, January 8Ahead of the rollout of Covid-19 vaccine, Chandigarh is going to receive 21,000 doses in the next two days, according to a communication received from the Central Government.List of 8,350 health workers preparedA list of around 8,350 health workers has been prepared and updated on the CoWIN portal who will receive the vaccine in the first phase. The vaccine will be administered at nine sites across the city, including two sites each at the GMSH-16 and GMCH-32, the civil hospitals of Sectors 45, 22 and Mani Majra, and the Sector 49 civil dispensary of the PGI. The UT has also received the first lot of around 1.5 lakh syringes from the Centre.Dr Amandeep Kaur Kang, Director, UT Health Department, said the rollout day had not been officially communicated yet but they had been informed by the Centre that around 21,000 doses of Covid-19 vaccine would arrive in Chandigarh in the next two days. However, it is not clear as to which, out of the two vaccines, will arrive.A list of around 8,350 health workers has been prepared and updated on the CoWIN portal who will receive the vaccine in the first phase. The vaccine will be administered at nine sites across the city, including two sites each at GMSH-16, GMCH-32, the civil hospitals of 45, 22 and Mani Majra, and the Sector 49 civil dispensary of the PGI. The UT has also received the first lot of around 1.5 lakh syringes from the Centre.Second dry run conductedThe second dry run for the vaccination programme was conducted at two sites, Government Medical College and Hospital, Sector 32, and Civil Hospital in Sector 45, today. The time slot for the activity was from 10 am to 12 noon. Around 25 beneficiaries each reached the identified sites on time and were verified to make an entry on the CoWIN portal. A mock vaccination was done and confirmation message for vaccination successfully received by the beneficiaries. The beneficiaries were made to wait under observation for 30 minutes and finally sent home after giving the number on which he/she could contact in case of any problem.A mock drill for reporting side effects following vaccination was also carried out. The provision to stagger the arrival time of the beneficiaries was also made.Meanwhile, the PGI also conducted a dry run at the health and wellness centre (HWC), Sector 49.According to a statement issued by the PGI, minor side effects like pain at injection mark and fever may occur after vaccination. An ambulance will be available to shift the patient in case of major side effects. The beneficiaries can contact the helpline no. 1075 regarding any adverse event or information regarding the Covid-19 vaccine.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/city-to-get-21-000-doses-of-covid-vaccine-within-2-days-195995
09-01-2021||---||Two hurt in cylinder blast at Sector 21-D||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, January 8Two persons were injured as a cooking gas cylinder exploded in Sector 21-D here today.Amit, at whose house the incident took place, suffered injuries on the face, lost conscious and was rushed to the GMCH-32. A gas cylinder operator also suffered injuries.The victim’s mother Praveen Kumari said there was a leakage in their Indane gas cylinder. “I called up the gas office twice, but they took about four hours to come. Their operator reached our house and tried to release some gas from the cylinder. However, the cylinder exploded. Our doors, windows and one wall fell due to the impact of the blast,” she recounted.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/two-hurt-in-cylinder-blast-at-sector-21-d-195996
09-01-2021||---||Juice bar owner makes Rs20K from passport correction deal, nabbed||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, January 8The owner of a juice shop near the Regional Passport Office (RPO), Sector 34, has been arrested for allegedly duping a resident of Ludhiana. Dimple has been booked under Section 406 (criminal breach of trust) and 420 (cheating) of the Indian Penal Code for allegedly taking Rs20,000 from Paramjeet Singh by promising a correction in his passport.Deputy Passport Officer Amit Kumar Rawat became suspicious after Paramjeet Singh, accompanied by his mother and grandfather, submitted his passport on Thursday for rectifying the wrongly spelt name of his village. “I remember the case as he had come in November with the same request. I had then advised them to get an affidavit from his village patwari or tehsildar which specifies the exact spellings of his Barundi village of Raikot tehsil. However, he came on Thursday again with only his passport and no other document,” said Kumar.Asking the trio to wait, Kumar, deployed the office guard to keep an eye on them. “They sat in a neighbouring juice shop for over two hours and when they came back, I asked his mother about the affidavit. She told us that the juice shop owner had taken Rs 20,000 from them for getting the spellings of his village changed,” he added. “Dimple even assured them that she had spoken to the top officers of the RPO about the ‘correction’.”Rajiv Kumar, Sector 34 SHO, said the police had arrested the suspect. “Rs 20,000 has been recovered from Dimple. She has been arrested and remanded in judicial custody,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/juice-bar-owner-makes-rs20k-from-passport-correction-deal-nabbed-195997
09-01-2021||---||Dry run of vaccine held in Mohali||Mohali, January 8Dry run of the Covid-19 vaccination was held at three health centres each in urban as well as rural areas of the district today.Health Minister Balbir Singh Sidhu said 25 beneficiaries, a five-member vaccination team and a supervisor each participated in the mock drill at these sites as per the micro-plan finalised for the programme, so as to ensure a smooth run of all activities as per the SOPs.As the nation inches towards its mammoth Covid-19 vaccination programme, Punjab is all prepared to administer the vaccine as and when it is received. “All logistics have been worked out and we are good to go,” said Sidhu, adding that simulation of the entire inoculation process was conducted. The operational aspects have been thoroughly reviewed and the feasibility of CoWIN Portal has been monitored, he added.Sidhu said as of now, there were 1,000 trained vaccinators and four supporting team members per vaccinator are ready for the job. The state was equipped enough to administer 4 lakh doses of vaccine per day. The vaccine would be administered only with the consent of a pre-registered recipient/beneficiary. In the first phase of vaccination, 1.6 lakh health care workers (HCWs) from private and public facilities would be inoculated followed by frontline corona warriors, including the police, revenue officials and other field staff, and subsequently the elderly and population with co-morbidities.The minister said he was in touch with the Union Health Minister and had requested him to provide Covid vaccine free of cost to all states. The Punjab Government today successfully completed the dry run at all session sites.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/dry-run-of-vaccine-held-in-mohali-195998
09-01-2021||Mohali||Hospital told to pay Rs12 lakh||The Punjab State Consumer Disputes Redressal Commission has directed IVY Hospital, Amritsar, to pay a compensation of Rs12 lakh to a resident of Amritsar for causing death of his father due to negligence.The President of the commission, Justice Paramjeet Singh Dhaliwal, while dismissing the appeals of the IVY Hospital and Dr Varun Mohan, opposite party no. 1 and 2, respectively, and partially allowing the appeal of the complainant, Harpreet Singh, awarded the compensation of Rs12 lakh instead of Rs3 lakh as awarded by District Consumer Disputes Redressal Commission.Justice Dhaliwal further ordered that the remaining part of the order of the District Commission with regard to refund of Rs24,500 as expenses for treatment along with Rs25,000 as the cost of litigation will remain the same.Advocate Updip Singh, counsel for Harpreet Singh, stated that Gurdeep Singh was taken to the hospital on July 12, 2016, at about 10 am after he complained of severe chest pain since morning. He said the patient was received in the emergency by Dr Tanika and the ECG report was sent to Dr Varun Mohan on his cellphone, who advised the treatment and the same was started immediately, but the patient did not survive. There was no competent cardiologist present at that point of time when the patient had a sudden onset of breathlessness and he went into flash pulmonary oedema. —TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/hospital-told-to-pay-rs12-lakh-195999
09-01-2021||Gaurav Kanthwal||Sampling of birds in Mohali from today||Tribune News ServiceDera Bassi, January 8The Mohali Animal Husbandry Department will start sampling of birds in the district from tomorrow onwards. Rapid response teams deputed at the tehsil level will collect 50 samples each from poultry farms, meat shops, markets and other potential areas and send it to the Northern Regional Disease Diagnostic Laboratory, Jalandhar, for testing.Layer farm owners cautiousVicky Kalra, a poultry farm owner in Dera Bassi, said: “There is no panic among poultry farmers here. However, layer farms (dealing in hen eggs) are keeping a more guarded approach while broiler farms (dealing in chicken)have mostly cleared out their stock.” Business insiders says layer farm bird’s life is of 18 months, while a broiler farm bird’s life is 35 days only.Dr Sangeeta Toor, Deputy Director, Animal Husbandry Department, Mohali, said: “We have received orders to send 50 samples each, collected by rapid response teams, to the Jalandhar laboratory on a daily basis till further orders. There have been no instances of unusual bird deaths in the district so far. We are carrying out intensive surveillance in all areas with potential risk.”The department has constituted rapid response teams and posted a nodal officer at the district level. Two teams have been constituted at the tehsil level, one each in Dera Bassi and Kharar. Each team comprises of two doctors, pharmacists and Class IV employees.Meanwhile, poultry farm owners in the Dera Bassi area said disinfectant was being sprayed from time to time at the farms. The Animal Husbandry Department has advised them to cover the feeding area of birds so that it is not infected by stray birds such as crows, egrets and others. Farm workers are being sanitised and medically screened by teams of the Health Department. Conservative estimates peg the bird population in Dera Bassi area around 20 lakh.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/sampling-of-birds-in-mohali-from-today-196000
09-01-2021||Amit Bathla||Panchkula authorities found wanting||Tribune News ServicePanchkula, January 8Though mortality among poultry birds has been taking place in Raipur Rani and Barwala since the first week of December, it took the Panchkula authorities more than a month to come across the actual reason behind the unusual deaths in Asia’s second largest poultry belt with a production capacity of 1 crore eggs per day.Long wait for resultsAfter the first set of samples failed to produce results, a team from the Jalandhar lab visited Barwala and Raipur Rani to collect fresh samples, which further delayed the diagnosis.Team expresses disappointmentThe district authorities swung into action only after the arrival of a team sent by the Central Government on January 7. Reportedly, the Central team has expressed disappointment over the inaction by the district authorities in tackling the situation, resulting into more deaths.Lives of over 10,000 workers put at riskOver 10,000 workers are employed in around 140 poultry units in the Barwala-Raipur Rani belt. Time taken by the district authorities to get familiar with the risk in poultry farms has put the lives of these workers at risk.The Animal Husbandry and Dairying Department, which remained at the centre of operations, lived in a denial mode with repeated assurances of “no signs of bird flu”.When the authorities finally sent the samples of birds to the Northern Regional Disease Diagnostic Laboratory in Jalandhar on January 3, the death toll had already crossed 4-lakh mark, which poultry farm owners termed ‘unprecedentedly high’ unlike previous winter seasons when mortality take place due to extreme weather conditions and Ranikhet disease.“Earlier, we thought the deaths could be due to extreme weather conditions or E.coli, but the unusual fatality count this year raised our eyebrows,” said a worker at Nature Poultry Farm in Ganauli, which has been declared as one of the two epicentres of the disease.Five samples collected from this farm were found positive for H5N8 strain of the virus at a Bhopal-based lab.The unit, one of the worst-affected farms in the region, lost over 1 lakh birds in a month. Its daily fatality, which started with 50-60 on December 21, rose as high as 25,000 on December 26. Still, the authorities concerned took no cognisance of the actual reason behind deaths.Similarly, a minimal population of livestock was left at Rajeev Poultry Farm, which had 98,000 birds on December 1.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/panchkula-authorities-found-wanting-196001
09-01-2021||Dushyant Singh Pundir||Poultry sales take a hit in city, egg prices dip by 30%||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, January 8Outbreak of bird flu in the neighbouring district of Panchkula has affected the sale of poultry products in the city. The prices of chicken and eggs fell by nearly 30 per cent today.Pigeon found dead in Sec 35 on FridayDebendra Dalai said a pigeon was found dead in Sector 35 here on Friday. So far, a total of 10 birds, including a migratory bird, had been found dead in different areas of the city, including Sukhna Lake and it’s nearly areas, in the past four days. A common coot was found dead in Sukhna Lake on Tuesday. Dalai said so far a total of eight samples had been sent to the RDDL, Jalandhar, to ascertain the reasons behind deaths. They would get the reports of other samples soon.Reports awaitedThe Animal Husbandry Department, UT, had also collected more than 200 samples from poultry farms, live markets, water bodies, etc. The samples were sent to the RDDL, Jalandhar, but the reports were still awaited.The prices of chicken today came down to Rs150 per kg, whereas it was selling for nearly Rs200 per kg before the deaths of lakhs of chickens were reported in the Barwala area of Panchkula. Similarly, the rates of eggs dropped to Rs160 per crate of 30 eggs from Rs190 per crate.Ashish Kumar, president, Meat Market Association, Chandigarh, said the prices of eggs would be affected further in the coming days as nearly 70 per cent of the eggs in the northern states were supplied from the Barwala area.He said already reeling under losses due to the lockdown, bird flu would further impact their businesses. Daily turnover of poultry products in the tricity was of nearly Rs40 lakh. Pawan Kumar, a shopkeeper at the Meat Market in Sector 21, said they get the supply of eggs from Barwala, but chickens were being supplied to the city from Ambala, Panipat and various areas of Punjab.Rajender Singh, a resident of Sector 40, said his family members had stopped eating poultry products since they learned about the death of lakhs of chickens at various poultry farms in Barwala. He said they could not take the health risk at the cost of tantalising taste buds.Two samples fromUT test negativeAfter reports of samples from poultry farms in Barwala tested positive for bird flu, two samples, including a migratory and a local bird, sent from Chandigarh to the Regional Disease Diagnostic Laboratory (RDDL), Jalandhar, have tested negative for avian influenza.Debendra Dalai, Chief Conservator of Forests, UT, said the first set of samples of two birds —common coot and pigeon — sent to the RDDL, Jalandhar, for avian influenza had been tested negative.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/poultry-sales-take-a-hit-in-city-egg-prices-dip-by-30-196002
09-01-2021||Ramkrishan Upadhyay||Not having mandatory approvals costs builder dear||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, January 8Not having mandatory approvals cost a Mohali-based builder dear. The State Consumer Disputes Redressal Commission, Chandigarh, has directed the builder to refund Rs11,75,000 to the complainant, along with 9 per cent interest per annum. It has also directed the builder to pay a compensation of Rs1,50,000 for causing mental agony and physical harassment and Rs30,000 as litigation cost to the complainant.Amit Kapoor, a resident of Sector 34, approached the commission after the builder failed to refund the amount invested in a project allegedly not approved by the government.Kapoor, in his complaint, said he agreed to buy a hotel room in upcoming Aeropolis City Hotel in Sector 66-A, Mohali, launched by the builder.Kapoor said he booked room number 518 on the fifth floor for Rs49,23,501. He paid an amount of Rs11,75,000 by taking loan from a bank. The remaining amount was to be paid as per clause 4 of the agreement, which was executed between both parties on April 27, 2019.He claimed before the commission that in mid of May 2019, he came to know that the builder did not have the sale deed of the land in its name. He was not legally entitled to sell the rooms of the hotel and the land was not earmarked for the hotel site. The builder also did not have approvals from the Chief Town Planner, Punjab, and not enlisted with the RERA. Thereafter, the complainant visited the office of the opposite party (builder) and also moved an application on July 22, 2019, for the refund of the amount. After around five months, the builder issued cheques totalling Rs11,75,000, which were dishonoured by the bank.By terming the act as deficiency in service and indulgence into unfair trade practice, Kapoor sought relief from the commission.The builder claimed that the allegations of the complainant were of contractual nature, as such, triable in a civil court and the complainant is not a consumer. The builder stated that due to the Covid-19 pandemic, real estate business was worst hit. Now, he was willing to pay Rs11.75 lakh to the complainant in instalments. To show bona fide intentions, he was ready to deposit Rs3 lakh immediately and further undertakes to refund the entire amount within six months. The builder denied any deficiency in service. After hearing the arguments, the Commission directed the builder to refund the amount with 9 per cent interest per annum from the respective dates of deposits till realisation.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/not-having-mandatory-approvals-costs-builder-dear-196003
09-01-2021||Karam Prakash||Nine food samples fail quality test in Patiala||Tribune News ServicePatiala, January 8Nine food samples collected by the Health Department last month have failed to meet quality standards. Eight food samples were declared ‘substandard’ by the state food testing lab. Meanwhile, one food sample was found ‘misbranded’ revealed the report.The food samples, which failed quality standards, include three samples of khoya barfi, two samples of paneer, two samples of curd and one sample of milk.Dr Shelly Jaitley, district health officer (DHO), said paneer samples had low fat and moisture content while khoya barfi had higher fat content than prescribed the regulating government agency. Curd had also low-fat following which it was declared substandard, the DHO added.As per the Food Safety Act food shall be deemed to be substandard if it does not meet the specified standards. One milk sample had higher fat content and also had starch mixed in it, the DHO said.Biscuits of a shop were declared misbranded by the lab, the DHO added. Misbranding implies falsely giving false information of any food to mislead consumers or give a false guarantee.Following the lab report, the Health Department would issue notices to all shop owners whose food samples failed the quality test.“Besides giving notices, shop owners will also be given a one month time to challenge the state lab report, the DHO said.After one-month, the Health Department will submit a report to the Additional Deputy Commissioner to take a decision on penalty for the violations.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/nine-food-samples-fail-quality-test-in-patiala-196004
09-01-2021||---||ASHA, anganwadi workers protest in support of farmers||Tribune News ServicePatiala, January 8In support of the protesting farmers at Delhi borders, hundreds of ASHA and anganwadi workers under the banner of Centre of Indian Trade Unions (CITU) tried to court arrest outside the district administrative complex today. However, the police did not arrest them.Before the symbolic arrest, protesters staged a sit-in near the district administrative complex for hours’ altogether. The protesters said new farm bills passed by the Central Government would destroy the agriculture sector. The Modi government was making efforts to privatise every sector to help big corporate, they added.Amritpal Kaur, an anganwadi worker, said, “The Modi government has been making laws – including agriculture – that favour only big corporate. However, we will not let them do what they want to. We will continue our protest until the laws are repealed.”Workers said they had protested at Delhi borders in the past and would continue to do so in future also. They had decided to protest at the district level against the agriculture bills, workers added.Harinder Kaur, an ASHA worker, said, it was wrong to say that the farm laws would not have any adverse impact on the agriculture sector. Every section of society would face the brunt of these laws if implemented, she added.“ASHA workers will continue to protest come what may until the farm laws are repealed,” she said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/asha-anganwadi-workers-protest-in-support-of-farmers-196005
09-01-2021||---||Biography of ex-PEPSU CM Col Raghbir Singh to be released soon||Tribune News ServicePatiala, January 8On the 66th death anniversary of Col Raghbir Singh, former Chief Minister (CM) of the PEPSU state, his son Karanbir Singh Sandhu announced that his father’s biography would be released soon.The book about Colonel Raghbir Singh, who once remained the Sardar Sahib of Deodi in the PEPSU state, would be a good read for students of history, politics and others, said Karanbir. Colonel Raghbir Singh died of a stroke on January 7, 1955.While paying tributes to his father Karanbir said Colonel Raghbir Singh born in Thethar village of Lahore in 1895 came from the lineage of Sardar Sahib Singh and Sardar Lakha Singh. The two were responsible for the early-upbringing and education in use of arms of then Maharaja Ranjit Singh of the Sikh empire.Colonel Raghbir Singh was ushered into services in Patiala by Maharaja Bhupendra Singh where he went on to become the Inspector General of the police by 1926.Colonel Raghbir Singh played a pivotal role in bringing about a compromise between the princely state and the Akali movement during the uprising of 1942. Soon after, he formed a separate political party Lok Sewak Sabha that later merged into the Congress. He then also became the home minister in the PEPSU state.Colonel Raghbir Singh was elected as the leader of the Congress during the first General Elections of India and the PEPSU state in 1952. He took an oath as the first Chief Minister of the PEPSU, but had to resign as Akalis gained power with the help of independent candidates. He again became the CM of the state in 1954 as Congress gained power with a thumping majority. His stint as the CM lasted less than a year, but he worked for the co-operative movement in the state and other matters. He later inaugurated the first co-operative bank in Patiala. He also encouraged small and medium industries in Rajpura and started the PEPSU Roadways.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/biography-of-ex-pepsu-cm-col-raghbir-singh-to-be-released-soon-196006
09-01-2021||Our Correspondent||MLA lays foundation stones of ROB, RUB at Mandi Gobindgarh||Fatehgarh Sahib, January 8The state government is committed to the overall development of Punjab. All projects are initiated as per demands of the people. This was stated by the Amloh MLA, Kaka Randeep Singh Nabha, while addressing the gathering after laying the foundation stones of the railway overbridge (ROB) 151-C and railway underbridge (RUB) to be constructed at the cost of Rs42 crore at Mandi Gobindgarh today.This project would fulfil decades old demand of the people and would be completed in a year, he added. The length of the ROB would be 790 metres and the carriageway would be 9.5 metres, he said. The length of RUB, meant for light traffic, would be 320 metres, he added.The MLA also laid foundation stone of other development projects to be constructed at the cost of Rs10 crore.District planning committee chairman Harinder Singh Bhambri, MLA Randeep Singh’s wife Beheshta Singh, Amloh SDM Anand Sagar Sharma, DCC president Subhash Sood and PWD executive engineer Balwinder Singh also addressed the gathering.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/mla-lays-foundation-stones-of-rob-rub-at-mandi-gobindgarh-196007
09-01-2021||Mohali||Row over fundraising for farmers’ stir||Senior leaders of the Kisan Union (Lakhowal), Kisan Union Ekta (Sidhupur), Kisan Union (Rajewal) and Kisan Union (Dakonda) today approached the Mohali SSP’s office and sought to lodge a fresh complaint against a fundraising organisation of Phase 7, Mohali.The leaders alleged that the Punjab Kisan Union was collecting donations in the name of farmers’ agitation in the Phase 7 market without any mandate from the 31 farmers’ bodies protesting on the Delhi border.Punjab Kisan Union state leaders Kanwaljit Singh, Amandeep Singh, Gabbar Singh Sangrur and Surjit Singh said all details of the donors were being recorded in a register.The protesting farmers’ leaders met SP (City) Harvinder Singh Virk in the absence of the Mohali SSP and apprised him of the whole incident. Virk said the police were investigating the matter in depth and the issue would be resolved soon after talking to both farmers’ groups. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/row-over-fundraising-for-farmers-stir-196008
09-01-2021||Ropar||Prof Ahuja is new IIT-Ropar Director||Rajeev Ahuja, a professor at Department of Physics and Astronomy, Uppsala University, Sweden, will be the new Director of the Indian Institute of Technology, Ropar. He will take the charge from incumbent Prof Sarit K Das who took over in April 2015 for five years.Though the term of Professor Das had to be expired last year and the government had even invited the applications in this regard as early as in January 2020, the selection process was delayed due to Covid 19 and he was asked to stay till further orders. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/prof-ahuja-is-new-iit-ropar-director-196009
09-01-2021||Chandigarh||3 POs in Chandigarh police net||The UT police have nabbed three proclaimed offenders (POs). One of them was on the run for seven years.A team led by Inspector Rajiv Kumar, SHO Sector 34 police station, nabbed the POs.The police said those arrested include Manoj Kumar, a resident of Maloya, who was booked in a case of assault in 2008 at the Sector 34 police station and was declared a PO in December 2013, and Ranjit Singh, a resident of Phase II, Ram Darbar, who was booked in a case of theft in 2009 at the Sector 34 police station and was declared a PO in August 2019.Both the POs were arrested on January 7 and have been sent to judicial custody.The third PO to be arrested is Vikash Kumar, alias Sethi, a resident of Sector 56. He was booked in a case of house theft in 2013 at the Sector 34 police station and was declared a PO in 2017. He was arrested today. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/3-pos-in-chandigarh-police-net-196010
09-01-2021||Chandigarh||Air Cdre V Rajasekhar appointed 3 BRD chief||Air Commodore V Rajasekhar has been appointed the Air Officer Commanding, No. 3 Base Repair Depot, here, the largest establishment of the country for repair and overhaul of Russian-origin helicopters.Commissioned into the Aeronautical Engineering (Mechanical) Branch of the Indian Air Force in September 1988, he is trained in aircraft maintenance and was involved in the induction and formulation of maintenance philosophy of various new platforms.For distinguished service of a high order, he was awarded the Vishisht Seva Medal by the President of India in 2013. Meanwhile, Jyothi Rajasekhar took over as the president of the Air Force Wives Welfare Association (Local).||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/air-cdre-v-rajasekhar-appointed-3-brd-chief-196011
09-01-2021||Chandigarh||Meeting held||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/meeting-held-196012
09-01-2021||Chandigarh||Mobile phone snatched||Two motorcycle-borne miscreants allegedly snatched a mobile phone from a man near Dadu Majra.Complainant Pushpinder Pal of Mohali reported that two miscreants riding a black motorcycle snatched his mobile phone from near the dumping ground at Dadu Majra on January 7. The police have registered a case at the Maloya police station. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/mobile-phone-snatched-196013
09-01-2021||Chandigarh||Teenaged boy run over by train||Water supply to be hit in MohaliMohali: In view of the leakage in the pipeline of Kajauli Waterworks, the water supply to Phase 1 to 7, 9 to 11, Sector 70 and 71, Industrial Area (Phase 1 to 5), and villages of Mataur and Shahi Majra would be affected for the next two days. Sunil Kumar, Executive Engineer, Water Supply and Sanitation Division No. 2, said there would be low-pressure water supply to these areas in the morning and evening hours while there would be no water supply during the afternoon hours. TNSWebinar heldat instituteChandigarh: The DAV Institute of Management, Sector 10, organised a webinar, "A colloquy with Dr Bharat Jhunjhunwala", here on Thursday. The resource person, a former professor of the IIM-Bangalore, talked on transformational reforms going to take place in the Indian economy in general, and the business fraternity in particular. Dr Jhunjhunwala explicitly handled the concerns of participants and resolved their queries. Nearly 50 participants attended the webinar. TNSABVP submits memorandumChandigarh: The Akhil Bharatiya Vidyarthi Parishad (ABVP) has demanded the resumption of educational activities at Panjab University. The ABVP's PU unit president, Paras Rattan, said while life around had become normal, the university had still not decided to reopen the campus for regular students. Hrishika Raj, secretary, said all college campuses in Chandigarh were gradually opening up again. The ABVP has demanded that the VC should take action towards resuming educational activities on the campus, reopening hostels and allowing students to come and stay. tns||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/teenaged-boy-run-over-by-train-196014
