13-01-2021||Chandigarh||Shot in the arm for Chandigarh, gets 12,000 doses||The UT Health Department received 12,000 doses of Covishield, a Covid vaccine developed by AstraZeneca in collaboration with the Serum Institute of India, at the city airport today.19 boxes of vaccine arrive from PuneMohali: The first consignment of the Covid-19 vaccine arrived at the Chandigarh international airport on Tuesday from the Pune airport. The IndiGo flight carrying 19 boxes of vaccine landed at 12.45 pm. While 18 boxes were handed over to the Department of Health and Family Welfare, Punjab, one was received by the GMSH-16, Chandigarh. Each box contained 12,000 doses. “All laid-down protocols for handling the vaccine movement were followed,” said Ajay Kumar, CEO, CHIAL. TNSThe vaccine has been transported in the form of 10-dose vials. The UT has received 1,200 vials. The vaccine can be stored at a temperature of 2°C–8°C and has to be taken in two doses with intramuscular injections at a gap of 28 days. Officials said the vaccines received today would be sufficient to inoculate around 5,500 health care workers. A total of 8,830 workers, including private health care providers, have been registered for vaccination in the UT.An official statement of the UT Health Department read, “The vaccine vials have been kept in a walk-in cooler. The storage area will be guarded by security personnel round the clock.”Dr Amandeep Kaur Kang, Director, Health Services, UT, said, “We will have to strategise the administration of vaccine as the doses received are limited. For each dose administered to a beneficiary, a subsequent dose will be stored for administration after 28 days.”The vaccine was received by Dr VK Nagpal, Medical Superintendent-cum-Joint Director, UT Health Department, at the Chandigarh airport. The vaccine was transported in a dedicated van, which was escorted by a police vehicle.The first phase of the vaccination drive will start in the city on January 16.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/shot-in-the-arm-for-chandigarh-gets-12-000-doses-197656
13-01-2021||Chandigarh is all set to inoculate over 28||Vaccine safe, no need to worry: PGI director||I don’t think there should be any safety concern regarding both vaccines – Covishield and Covaxin. Both vaccines were found safe at the trial sites. The study to evaluate efficacy of the vaccines is underway. However, the efficacy is not the chief concern during its emergency use. Efficacy, nevertheless, plays an important role because ultimately we want to see how much is the antibody response against the infection. Covishield efficacy has been found between 62 per cent and 90 per cent, depending on single dose or double dose regimens.At the PGI itself, there are 12,000 health workers and we will need 24,000 doses of Covishield. The Central Government has sent the first consignment to various states and will separately send it to central institutions such as AIIMS and the PGI. We are hopeful that we will receive adequate doses before January 16.There are minor side effects such as allergic reactions, fever and pain at the vaccination site. The beneficiary will be monitored for 30 to 45 minutes. We have made arrangements for admission of beneficiaries if symptoms aggravate.No trial has been conducted on expectant mothers and there is no evidence how the vaccine will act on them. In the first phase, such women health workers will not be included in the vaccination drive. Though we have been able to save Covid positive expectant mothers and their babies as well at the institute.Definitely, such persons are at high risk of developing the infection and progressing towards severe illness. The vaccine will be safe for them and they are among the priority groups.When the infection is active, they will not be given the vaccine. Administering the vaccine to Covid-19 patients will further aggravate their symptoms. They should wait for recovery.A recovered patient will have a good amount of antibodies for at least three months. With the passage of time, the antibodies will begin to decrease. Vaccination after three months of recovery can supplement the formation of antibodies.The beneficiaries will have approximately six to nine months of antibody protection from the vaccine. However, one is advised to follow Covid appropriate behaviour to remain safe.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/vaccine-safe-no-need-to-worry-pgi-director-197659
13-01-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh to cancel licence of hotels serving hookah||Coming down heavily on hotels and restaurants violating the ban on serving of hookah, the UT has decided to cancel their licence.The Administration has already imposed a ban on serving of flavoured hookah, including tobacco molasses containing nicotine, for smoke or consumption in hotels, restaurants, bars, taverns and hookah bars.UT Adviser Manoj Parida said hotels and restaurants violating the ban on serving of hookah would lose their licence. Despite sealing of the premises for three days and filing of an FIR against the owner and the manager concerned, violation of the ban on serving of hookah to customers continued in the city.Earlier, the UT had decided to close down the premises for serving hookah for three days and to punish the owner or the manager under the Disaster Management Act.An official said over 15 owners or managers of hotels and restaurants had already been booked and fined for violating the ban order issued on October 13. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-to-cancel-licence-of-hotels-serving-hookah-197662
13-01-2021||Chandigarh||Apex court clears way for Power Dept privatisation||Now, the UT Administration will be able to speed up the process of privatisation of the Electricity Department.UT standing counsel Pankaj Jain said the Supreme Court today stayed the order of the Punjab and Haryana High Court, wherein the tendering process regarding privatisation of the UT Electricity Department was stayed.Parida says Work to be fast-trackedUT Adviser Manoj Parida said now the privatisation process of the Electricity Department would be put on the fast track. The Centre had decided to privatise the electricity distribution in the UT to provide better service to consumers and the process was to be completed by January 31.The SC order was passed by the Bench of Justice S Abdul Nazeer and Ajay Rastogi. However, the detailed SC order is awaited.UT Adviser Manoj Parida said now the privatisation process of the Electricity Department would be put on the fast track. The Centre had decided to privatise the electricity distribution in the UT to provide better service to consumers and the process was to be completed by January 31.On a petition filed by the UT Powermen Union, a Division Bench of the High Court had, on December 1, 2020, stayed the tendering process regarding privatisation of the Electricity Department.The petitioner had contended that they were aggrieved by the decision to privatise the electricity wing by selling 100 per cent stake of the government in the absence of any provision under Section 131 of the Electricity Act, 2003.The Bench was also told that the process of privatisation of the wing could not be initiated at all, especially when it was running in profits.The UT Engineering Department had invited bids for privatisation of the department on November 9. As many as 17 bidders, including Tata Power Company Limited, GMR Generation Asset Limited and Adani Transmission Limited, were issued request for proposal to take part in the privatisation process. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/apex-court-clears-way-for-power-dept-privatisation-197664
13-01-2021||Zirakpur||13 arrested for immoral trafficking in Zirakpur||The police arrested 13 persons for immoral trafficking at a hotel at Patiala Chowk here today. The police received information that Pankaj Singh and his wife Uma Singh, residents of Lakshmipur Colony in Barabanki district in UP, and Bhupinder Kaur of Behbalpur in Garshankar tehsil were involved in immoral trafficking.Zirakpur SHO Onkar Singh Brar conducted a raid at the hotel and arrested 13 persons, indentified as Ghanshyam Soni, Shridhar Divedi, Rahul Tiwari, Aditya Kamboj, Gursewak Singh, Naman Bhuteja, Rakesh Rawat, Rohit Saini, Ram Krishan, Kamlesh, Rohit Chauhan, Uma Singh and Bhupinder Kaur. A case has been registered under Sections 3, 4 and 5 of the Immoral Traffic Act at the Zirakpur police station. One of the suspects, Pankaj, is absconding. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/13-arrested-for-immoral-trafficking-in-zirakpur-197667
13-01-2021||Chandigarh||Five more samples test negative in Chandigarh||Alleviating the fear of bird flu, five more samples have tested negative for avian influenza. On January 7, the UT Forest and Wildlife Department had sent samples of a common coot, a peacock, two crows and a bird to the Regional Disease Diagnostic Laboratory, Jalandhar, to test for avian influenza (HPAI).Debendra Dalai, Chief Conservator of Forests, UT, said all five samples were found to be negative for avian influenza. Dalai said out of the total eight samples sent to the laboratory, three had already been reported negative for avian influenza. However, the reports of 13 samples sent to the laboratory later were yet to be received.As many as 13 more birds, including eight crows, and five pigeons, were found dead in different areas of the city today. A total of 13 birds, including 12 crows and one pigeon, were found dead from various areas of the city yesterday. Dalai said the cause of the deaths could be attributed to sudden dip in night temperature. Surveillance had already been increased in the city as a precautionary measure in view of the deaths of lakhs of chickens in the Barwala area of neighbouring district of Panchkula. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/five-more-samples-test-negative-in-chandigarh-197670
13-01-2021||Chandigarh||Now, pro golfers can contest Chandigarh Golf Club elections||In a major development, the Chandigarh Golf Club (CGC) has done away with its two-decade-old law which barred professional golfers, who are its permanent members, from contesting the management elections.As per Rule 45(H) of the CGC’s constitution, permanent members, who turn professionals, were not allowed to contest the elections. However, at the recently held annual general meeting, the particular rule was rescinded to make way for professionals, who are permanent members of the club, to contest the management elections.A few years ago, a PIL, signed by the likes of professionals Jeev Milkha Singh, Gursimran Sethi and Harmeet Kahlon, was also moved in the Punjab and Haryana High Court. However, it will be now withdrawn within a week. “The management has revoked the rule. A unanimous decision was taken by House for the development of the club. Professionals, who are permanent members and fulfil other criteria, can contest the elections. Earlier, they were only allowed to vote,” said Dr GS Kochhar, vice-president and chairman (media and publicity), CGC.There are over 25 professional golfers registered with the CGC and at least 15 are its permanent members. As many as 1,800 members have the voting right. Permanent members can contest the elections for a regular term of five years.“Rule 45(h) stands rescinded, thanks to unanimous vote and support of all permanent members at the annual general meeting. This amendment now gives every permanent member the right to contest the club elections for management as well as grants the permanent members more options to choose from. This decision will go a long way in the further growth of our institute” said Sethi, a professional golfer.As per the CGC’s constitution, a 3/4th majority of permanent members, which is nearly 135, are required to support the revocation of any rule. Sources claimed that the revocation of this law was delayed by a few years due to incomplete quorum. “We welcome this decision of allowing permanent members of professionals’ category to contest the CGC elections. This will help the club to achieve new heights and to develop golf amid experienced and expert opinions of professionals,” said Harmeet Kahlon, an Arjuna Award recipient and Asian Tour winner.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/now-pro-golfers-can-contest-chandigarh-golf-club-elections-197672
13-01-2021||Chandigarh||36 test +ve in Chandigarh, one dies||15 new cases, 1 death in PanchkulaPanchkula: The district on Tuesday reported 15 fresh coronavirus cases, taking the tally to 10,249. It also witnessed a Covid death. A 73-year-old woman from Sector 7, who was also suffering from hypertension and type 2 diabetes mellitus, succumbed to the virus. The Covid toll now stands at 145. While 9,884 patients have recovered from the disease so far, 220 cases are still active. The recovery rate of the district is 96.43 per cent. — TNS42 fresh Covid cases in MohaliMohali: As many as 42 new Covid-19 cases were reported from the district on Tuesday. As many as 61 more patients recovered from the virus in the past 24 hours. Among the new cases, 40 were reported from Mohali (urban) and one each from Dhakoli and Lalru. The district has seen 18,814 cases so far, while 17,565 patients have been cured. The active case tally stands at 898. With no death reported on Tuesday, the toll stays at 351. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/36-test-ve-in-chandigarh-one-dies-197678
13-01-2021||Chandigarh||Failure to deliver car after booking costs dealer dear||Failure to deliver a car after booking cost dear to an auto dealer. The District Consumer Disputes Redressal Commission, Chandigarh, directed the auto dealer to not only refund Rs 2,000 booking amount to the complainant but also pay a compensation of Rs15,000 for the losses incurred by the complainant on account of unfair trade practice, deficiency in service and causing mental and physical harassment.The commission also directed the dealer to pay Rs5,000 as litigation expenses to the complainant.The commission has fixed a 30-day deadline for the compliance of the order. In case the order is not complied in the fixed time, then the opposite party (auto dealer) will be liable for 9 per cent interest per annum.Amandeep Singh, a resident, approached the commission after the auto dealer failed to deliver the car despite taking the booking amount in advance. In the complaint filed before the commission, the complainant said he booked the car from CM Auto Sales (P) Ltd, Chandigarh, by paying Rs2,000 on September 24, 2019. The car was to be delivered by September 30, 2019. However, the opposite party (CM Auto Sales (P) Ltd) failed to deliver the car by the said date and promised to deliver it by October 10, 2019. In between, a consumer offer of Rs50,000 offered by Maruti Suzuki Private Limited during September 2019 was reduced to Rs45,000.He said the opposite party again jumped the scheduled date of delivery i.e. October 10, 2019, and eventually refused to deliver the car. The complainant sought relief from the consumer commission.The commission served notices to the opposite party seeking its version of the case. However, nobody appeared on behalf of the opposite party despite service. Therefore, the order was proceeded ex-parte. After examining the records, the commission reached the conclusion that the act of the opposite party of neither delivering the car nor returning the booking amount was deficiency of services and unfair trade practice.In view of this, the commission directed the opposite party to refund Rs2,000 booking amount to the complainant. It was also asked to pay Rs15,000 on account of unfair trade practice, deficiency in service and causing mental and physical harassment and Rs5,000 as litigation expenses to the complainant.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/failure-to-deliver-car-after-booking-costs-dealer-dear-197682
13-01-2021||Chandigarh||Navya to face Sarthak in final||Third seed Navya Verma from Punjab stunned second seed Aryan Thakur to reach the boys’ U-18 final on the penultimate day of the ongoing CLTA-AITA Championship Series (CS-3) Tennis Tournament at the CLTA Complex in Sector 10.Verma logged a 9-4 win over local contender Thakur. He will be facing top seed Sarthak Gandhi, who defeated sixth seed Amish Bansal 9-2 in the title clash. Earlier in the quarterfinals, Verma defeated Upnishad Bhardwaj 9-4, Gandhi blanked seventh seed Aditya Chauhan 9-5, Bansal managed to edge past fourth seed Arihant 9-7 and Thakur ousted Anirudh Sangra 9-4.Harleen to play against Riya in finalIn the girls’ U-18 category, top seed Harleen Kaur Dhanda will face Riya Kaushik in the final. In semi-finals, Harleen defeated third seed Radhika Vasudeva 7-2 (conceded) and fifth seed Riya ousted Haryana’s Saanvi Garg 9-7. In quarterfinals, Harleen blanked Ananya Dogra 9-0, Radhika defeated Mrinalini Sharma 9-5, Riya outplayed fourth seed Vanya Arora 9-2 and Saanvi defeated Shriya Singh 9-3. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/navya-to-face-sarthak-in-final-197685
13-01-2021||Chandigarh||Akshdha defeats Inaaya, enters final||Akshdha Sharma upset top seed Inaaya Mittal in straight sets 6-0, 6-2 to sail into the girls’ U-14 final in the ongoing Roots-AITA Talent Series (TS7) National Ranking U-14 Tennis Championship at Zirakpur.In the final match, she will be up against second seed Isheeta Midha, who defeated Rasha Dhaliwal 6-4, 6-4. Prior to reaching semi-finals, Akshdha defeated Krittika Katoch 6-0, 7-6(3), while Isheeta Midha logged a comeback 4-6, 7-6(5), 6-3 win over Agrima Gandhi. Inaaya defeated Mehakpreet Kaur 7-5, 2-6, 6-4 and Rasha ousted Ira Chadha 6-1, 6-0 in other two quarterfinals.Meanwhile, in the boys’ U-14 semis, top seed Harwin Singh outplayed Armaan Walia 6-4, 7-5 and third seed Akshat Dhull defeated Divyam Sharma 6-3, 6-3.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/akshdha-defeats-inaaya-enters-final-197687
13-01-2021||Panchkula||Now, no culling at 2 poultry farms||The district authorities today excluded two poultry farms from its list of commercial units where culling operations are to be carried out to break the chain of transmission of avian influenza.Deputy Commissioner Mukesh Kumar Ahuja said two poultry farms – Naveen and Sunil in Kheri village – don’t fall in the 1-km radius of the infected zone. Culling operations would now be restricted to just three farms.While culling operations at two epicentres – Siddharth in Kheri and Nature in Ganauli village - have already been completed, the drive is underway at Narender Poultry Farm.The Animal Husbandry Department had earlier targeted to cull over 1.66 lakh birds. The exclusion of two poultry farms where around 1.10 lakh birds were to be culled has bring down this number drastically. Over 29,000 birds have been culled so far.Reports still awaitedAhuja said reports of samples sent to the National Institute of High Security Animal Diseases in Bhopal from a Jalandhar lab are still awaited. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/now-no-culling-at-2-poultry-farms-197688
13-01-2021||Chandigarh||Avoid Lohri celebrations, traders told||The Chandigarh Traders’ Association, Sector 17, has decided not to celebrate Lohri this year as a precautionary measure to prevent the spread of coronavirus.Association president Kamaljit Singh Panchhi said the decision was taken as the spread of coronavirus had not been controlled yet. They need to take extra care as people had started getting careless and this could prove fatal.“Basics such as wearing face masks and observing social distancing norms are not being followed,” he said.Panchhi appealed to all presidents of the Market and Resident Welfare Associations to come forward and guide their members to avoid celebrating Lohri and also follow the health advisory issued by the Government of India for the safety of their families.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/avoid-lohri-celebrations-traders-told-197690
13-01-2021||Panchkula||CITU, employees’ union protest||Members of the Sarv Karamchari Sangh, Haryana, and the Centre of Indian Trade Unions (CITU) today staged a protest outside the DC office in Sector 1 and submitted a memorandum to the official concerned in solidarity with farmers protesting the three farms laws and to press for the repeal of “anti-worker” labour codes.The protesters gathered at Major Sandeep Sankhla Memorial in Sector 2 and then marched towards the DC office.The protesters have also demanded a minimum wage of Rs 24,000, implementation of old pension scheme, end of privatisation of state-owned firms and filling of vacant posts, etc.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/citu-employees-union-protest-197692
13-01-2021||Chandigarh||Interstate gang of illicit liquor trade busted||With the Punjab Government tightening its noose against illicit liquor trade, bootleggers in the state are now using residential flats for bottling imported liquor brands, rather than abandoned warehouse or factory.In a major crackdown, the Punjab Excise Department, along with the state police, busted an interstate gang involved in smuggling cheap liquor from Chandigarh into Punjab and further filling it in bottles of expensive brands, mainly imported liquor, from a residential complex at Zirakpur.“We nabbed Jatinder Pal Singh, alias JP, receiving a consignment of empty bottles, mono cartons and caps of imported liquor brands from a Volvo bus in Zirakpur on the intervening night of January 4 and 5. The bus was coming from Delhi. The team comprising of excise and police officials found empty bottles, mono cartons, lid and unused caps of imported liquor brands in the consignment,” said Rajat Aggarwal, Excise Commissioner, Punjab, while addressing the media during a press conference.“Later, the team raided his residence at Motia Royal Citi, Zirakpur, where we found bottles of imported liquors as well as Indian liquor. The team also raided the godown-cum-residence of Singh and his accomplice Vijay Kumar at Jamuna Enclave, Zirakpur, where we found empty bottles of famous foreign liquor as well as mono cartons, unused caps, neck labels and extra neutral alcohol,” he said.“This is the first instance where we have found that illicit liquor trade was being carried from a flat. Normally, it is done from abandoned godown or factory,” said Rajat.During investigation, the accused admitted that he smuggles cheap liquor brands from a Chandigarh-based liquor contractor, Ashu Goel, on a regular basis and procures empty bottles, caps and other material from New Delhi.“He had a set-up at his residence where he used to fill cheap liquor into empty bottles of imported liquor brands and sell it to neighbouring states as well in Punjab,” he said.He said an FIR had been registered against Jatinder Pal and three of his accomplices. The team also arrested Gurpreet Sidhu as Jatinder and his accomplices were hand in gloves with him. The team found the Punjab Police uniform, shoulder badges, revolvers, around 30 cell phones and a bullet-proof jacket from Sidhu. The teams also raided a godown of Ashu Goel, a Chandigarh-based liquor contractor, in Sector 29 where around 1,966 cases of liquor of various brands were found without holograms.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/interstate-gang-of-illicit-liquor-trade-busted-197693
13-01-2021||Chandigarh||Cricket meet from January 18||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/cricket-meet-from-january-18-197694
13-01-2021||Chandigarh||Olympic association elections on January 27||In a new twist, the Chandigarh Olympic Association (COA) general secretary has issued orders for conducting elections during the annual general meeting on January 27. This comes as a shocker because at the last House meeting, it was decided that the minutes of the previous meetings, financial and affiliation disputes will be looked after before the elections are conducted.A rift on the issue emerged last month when COA president Amarinder Singh Bazaz announced forming committees to resolve problems related to affiliation and disaffiliation of local associations. However, Secretary Maha Singh had maintained that the next elected House would decide on the issue.As per the notice, the elections will be held for the posts of president, secretary general, treasurer, senior vice-president and joint secretary (one each), two vice-presidents and four executives. The secretary-general has asked the affiliated units to submit the names of their two representatives before January 15 on his personal email-ID instead of letting returning officer fulfil these criteria. The units have also been given the option to submit the names in person at the COA’s office.“At the last meeting, it was unanimously decided that a detailed report on previous meetings, financial and affiliation disputes would be presented before conducting any elections. They should have called a meeting first. No minutes were provided by the House,” said Chander Mukhi Sharma, president, Chandigarh Basketball Association and Secretary, Basketball Federation of India.Both Baza and Maha Singh were unavailable for comment on the issue.Minister, son to contest?As per the speculations, either Punjab Sports Minister Rana Gurmit Singh Sodhi, life-president of the COA, or his son Anumit Singh Sodhi, the COA treasurer, may contest the key posts.The meeting of January 27 is scheduled to be held at Punjab Bhawan, Sector 3. The father-son duo has remained a part of the association that has not conducted any championship in the past 14 years.At the last meeting, members of the COA alleged financial frauds and asked for expenditure reports. However, the treasurer did not attend the meeting.Later, a dinner party was hosted by Anumit on December 18 wherein COA members were invited. However, while talking to The Tribune, he had refused contesting the post of the COA president.Sources said other COA office-bearers are also trying to pass on the baton to their relatives.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/olympic-association-elections-on-january-27-197695
13-01-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh sees coldest Jan day in 5 years||The city today saw the coldest day of the month of this season and again remained colder than most hill stations. It was also the coldest January day in five years.The city’s lowest maximum temperature today fell to a new low at 11.1°C, which is as much as 10 degrees below normal. Last year, the lowest maximum temperature was 13.3°C recorded on January 15.In 2019, the lowest maximum temperature was 14.4°C on January 23. Even in 2018, the lowest maximum temperature was 14.4°C on January 5. In 2017, it was 11.5°C on January 18.In January, 2016, the maximum temperature was lower than today’s at 11°C.The city was colder than most hill stations today. Shimla recorded 18.4°C maximum temperature, Dharamsala saw 15.8°C and Manali logged 16°C. However, nights were colder at these stations.For the next three days, weather is expected to be partly or generally cloudy with fog in the city.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-sees-coldest-jan-day-in-5-years-197696
13-01-2021||Chandigarh||BJP delegation meets Badnore||City BJP president Arun Sood today took up with the UT Administrator the party’s demand for funds for UT villages and issues faced by the dwellers of Chandigarh Housing Board houses.The Administration has not given Rs 102 crore required for the development of villages which have been merged with the civic body.Sood was accompanied by new Mayor Ravi Kant Sharma, Senior Deputy Mayor Maheshinder Singh Sidhu and Deputy Mayor Farmila. They also met Manoj Kumar Parida, Adviser to the Administrator. Sood said special funds should be released to speed up development works in the villages.Badnore said he would soon discuss these problems with the officials of the administration, the MC and the Housing Board. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/bjp-delegation-meets-badnore-197698
13-01-2021||Chandigarh||AAP seeks probe into garbage dump issue||Calling it a farce, Chandigarh AAP today demanded an investigation by an independent agency into the Dadu Majra garbage dump clearing issue.In a press statement issued today, Prem Garg, convenor of the party, said it should be verified how the whole garbage clearing process was being handled.“Why can’t the MC/ Administration find out a wholesome solution to the problem? Lack of vision is evident from their failure to run the garbage processing plant that was taken over from Jaypee Company,” said Garg.He alleged they were cheating the public. “At the time of granting the work for clearing the garbage dump to a private firm, all press statements from authorities claimed that the entire dump will be cleared in about 18 months,” he said.“No official or MP made any statement that only half of the total garbage will be cleared. Now, the authorities are gearing up to waste another Rs35 crore to clear the garbage that will be left,” he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/aap-seeks-probe-into-garbage-dump-issue-197699
13-01-2021||Chandigarh||1971 war victory flame in Zirakpur||The Swarnim Vijay Mashaal or the victory flame, which is traversing the country as part of the golden jubilee celebrations of the 1971 Indo-Pak war victory, arrived at Zirakpur today.A grand reception was organised for the flame. Serving personnel and veterans paid tributes to the war martyrs.In the western part, the flame will pass through 35 locations and 11 key battle locations from where soil will be collected and used for sapling plantation event at the National War Memorial in New Delhi.The flame will move to Chandimandir, the headquarters of the Western Command that had played a key role in the war. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/1971-war-victory-flame-in-zirakpur-197701
13-01-2021||Panchkula||Bid to loot bag containing Rs 4L||Two persons carrying more than Rs 4 lakh were attacked by at least seven masked men in an attempt to loot them near a marble factory in Khangesra, Panchkula.The complainant, Anil, told the police that he lives in Rattewali village and works at Eco Service Station in Khangesra.“While I was on my way to a bank with my manager, seven to eight men on three motorcycles and an Activa attacked us and tried to steal our bag full of cash,” Anil said.“They came in our way and started hitting us with pipes and wooden sticks as they tried to take away our bag. We resisted and escaped them to reach the Alipur bank where we deposited the amount,” read the FIR.A case was filed under Section 398 (attempt to commit robbery or dacoity when armed with deadly weapon) of the IPC.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/bid-to-loot-bag-containing-rs-4l-197702
13-01-2021||Chandigarh||Sukhmani Society joins farmers’ stir||Members of Sukhmani Society, Sector 33-C, joined the farmers’ protest at Delhi’s Singhu border on Saturday.Led by society president Paramjeet Kaur, members showed their concern over the controversial laws. Society members raised slogans and demanded the immediate withdrawal of all farm laws enacted by the Centre. Activists of the Kisan-Mazdoor Sangarsh Committee also joined the society members during the protest at the Singhu border.Parminder Cheema, society member, said they all were daughters of farmers and knew their pain and sufferings. “We have no affiliation with any political party. All we want is that farmers of Punjab, Haryana and Uttar Pradesh should do well and progress,” she added. “Being part of the democracy we have right to protest. The youngsters should unite together and show resentment against the laws peacefully,” she said. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/sukhmani-society-joins-farmers-stir-197703
13-01-2021||Chandigarh||CSIO, C-DAC join hands for agri, health tech development||The Central Scientific Instruments Organisation (CSIO) and the Centre for Development of Advanced Computing (C-DAC), Mohali, have joined hands to undertake research to develop technologies having application in agricultural and healthcare sectors.A memorandum of understanding (MoU) was today signed by Prof S Anantha Ramakrishna, Director, CSIO, and Dr PK Khosla, Executive Director, C-DAC, for the sharing of expertise, domain knowledge and available facilities in selected and advanced thrust areas.The CSIO is engaged in undertaking research, design and development of intelligent scientific and industrial instruments in the area of agrionics, medical devices, optics, photonics, public safety and computational instrumentation, whereas C-DAC’s research is associated with cyber security, artificial intelligence, robotics, IoT, healthcare, agro-electronics and automation.The MoU will lead to cooperation among the groups working on research problems related to scientific instrumentation and systems for above mentioned areas and technologies.It will also promote interaction among scientists and research scholars through exchange visits and organising brainstorming sessions to identify and pursue research programmes in the emerging thrust areas.Dr RS Khandpur, founder director, C-DAC, said it was also proposed to organise a joint Khandpur memorial lecture annually.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/csio-c-dac-join-hands-for-agri-health-tech-development-197704
13-01-2021||Zirakpur||Hit-&-Run claims Biker’s life||DBU a centre for Khadi developmentChandigarh: Desh Bhagat University (DBU) has been declared as the nodal centre in Punjab for the development and promotion of ‘Khadi’ by the Khadi Design Council of India. A conference was organised wherein Ankur Anami, CEO, Khadi Design Council of India, shared the history of ‘Khadi’ and entrepreneurship and job prospects in the area. Dr Zora Singh, Chancellor, DBU, said the institution was happy to join hands with the council. TNSVolleyball court inauguratedChandigarh: Chandigarh: Under the “Fit India” campaign of Prime Minister Narendra Modi, a volleyball court was inaugurated by area councillor Shakti Prakash Devshali in Sector 29 here on Tuesday. Addressing the gathering, Devshali said a healthy mind resides in a healthy body. Devshali said an inter-sector tournament would also be conducted to spread the message of “Fit India”. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/hit-run-claims-bikers-life-197706
