14-01-2021||Chandigarh||23 new COVID-19 cases in Chandigarh||Chandigarh on Thursday reported 23 new coronavirus cases, taking the infection count to 20,438, according to a medical bulletin.The death of a 67-year-old person took the toll to 330, the bulletin said.There are 273 active cases in the union territory as of now, it said.Forty-one patients were discharged after they recovered from the infection, taking the number of cured people to 19,835, it said.A total of 1,97,283 samples have been taken for testing so far and of them, 1,75,903  tested negative while reports of 81 samples were awaited, the bulletin said. — PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/23-new-covid-19-cases-in-chandigarh-198468
14-01-2021||---||Veterans Day: CDS felicitates 100-year-old Chandigarh veteran||Chandigarh, January 14Col Prithipal Singh (Retd), the veteran who recently celebrated his 100th birthday and has the unique distinction of serving in all three Services, was presented with a Silver Salver by Maj Gen GS Kahlon on behalf of Chief of Defence Staff Gen Bipin Rawat on Veterans Day, here on Thursday.General Rawat acknowledged his rich and varied  experience, including  participation in active operations which are a source of inspiration for the younger generations.Col Prithipal Singh had served during the Second World War with the navy and after Independence, with the Army during the 1965 Indo-Pak War. In the last stage of his career, he was posted in north-east with the Assam Rifles – Z paramilitary organisation.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/veterans-day-cds-felicitates-100-year-old-chandigarh-veteran-198465
14-01-2021||Chandigarh||Aviation services launched between Chandigarh and Hisar||Haryana Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar on Thursday launched aviation services between Chandigarh and Hisar at the international airport here by handing over a boarding pass to the first passenger.This service has been started by Air Taxi Aviation Company, an official statement said here.He said Air Taxi has ordered four-seater airplanes. Besides the pilot, three passengers will be able to travel in these air taxis.    The distance from Chandigarh to Hisar will be covered by this aircraft in 45 minutes, he said adding that the service had been started under the ‘Udaan’ scheme of the Centre. The scheme envisages to make flying affordable. He said the company has fixed a very economical fare of Rs 1,755 from Hisar to Chandigarh.आज #मकर_संक्रांति के शुभ अवसर पर केंद्र सरकार की UDAN योजना के तहत चंडीगढ़ से हिसार के लिए एयर टैक्सी सेवा का शुभारम्भ किया। प्रधानमंत्री श्री @narendramodi जी ने कहा था कि चप्पल पहनने वाला व्यक्ति भी हवाई सफ़र कर सके, यह पहल उस दिशा में एक ओर कदम है। pic.twitter.com/lIbQcKd4KL  Bookings can be made online at “http://flyairtaxi.in”. The company has also provided the facility of private booking, the fare for which will be different. There will be a daily flight between Hisar and Chandigarh at its scheduled time even if only one passenger has booked a ticket.After starting Chandigarh-Hisar air service from Thursday, the company will start air service from Hisar to Dehradun from January 18 and from Hisar to Dharamshala on January 23. — PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/aviation-services-launched-between-chandigarh-and-hisar-198461
14-01-2021||Chandigarh||Cold wave sweeps Punjab, Haryana||Punjab and Haryana continued to reel under severe cold wave conditions on Thursday with Narnaul being the coldest place.Narnaul in Haryana shivered at 1.8 degrees Celsius, three degrees below normal, an official of the India Meteorological Department said here.Ambala, Hisar and Karnal experienced cold wave conditions at 3.1, 3.7 and 4 degrees Celsius, up to three notches below normal.Rohtak, Bhiwani and Sirsa braved the chill at 3.8, 4.3 and 5.8 degrees Celsius respectively.Chandigarh, the joint capital of both states, recorded its low at 3.8 degrees Celsius, one degree below normal.Among other places in Punjab, Amritsar, Ludhiana and Patiala registered their minimums at 6.5, 4.8 and 5.1 degrees Celsius respectively.The minimum temperatures of Pathankot, Adampur, Halwara, Bathinda, Faridkot and Gurdaspur were 2.5, 2.1, 4.2, 3.6, 5 and 8 degrees Celsius respectively.A thick blanket of fog enveloped many places in Punjab and Haryana in the morning. —PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/cold-wave-sweeps-punjab-haryana-198326
14-01-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh reports 37 cases, one death||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-reports-37-cases-one-death-198070
14-01-2021||Mohali||42 more test +ve in Mohali||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/42-more-test-ve-in-mohali-198071
14-01-2021||Chandigarh||Two cross FIRs registered||Valuables stolen from car in sec 16Chandigarh: Valuables were stolen by an unknown person after breaking the windowpane of a Creta parked at the parking lot of Shanti Kunj in Sector 16. The complainant reported that a laptop, a camera and a purse containing Rs700 and documents were stolen from his car on January 12. A case was registered at the Sector 17 police station. TNS2 Truck drivers held with drugsChandigarh: The Mubarikpur police arrested two truck drivers after a kg of opium and 15 kg of poppy husk were recovered from them. They were produced in a court, which remanded them in two-day police custody. DSP Gurbakhsh Singh Mann said a truck driven by Davinder Singh, a resident of Shiv Nagar, Kalka, was stopped at a naka and opium was recovered from it. In another case, a truck driver, Satnam Singh, a resident of Trivedi camp, with poppy husk. Satnam owned the vehicle. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/two-cross-firs-registered-198075
14-01-2021||Chandigarh||PU boys’ hostel No. 4 celebrates lohri||PU VC Releases new year calendarChandigarh: Panjab University Vice-Chancellor Raj Kumar released the New Year calendar, an initiative of the Panjab University Non-Teaching Employees Federation (PUNTEF), at his office on Wednesday. Deepak Kaushik, president, and other office-bearers of the federation were also present on the occasion. TNSLecture on fighting negativityChandigarh: Dean (International students), Panjab University, organised an international lecture of Dr Vijay Rana, an award winning senior NRI journalist from London. Rana delivered a lecture on, “How to fight negativity and create a mindset for positivity and success”. He started his lecture by giving tribute to Swami Vivekananda. He shared some objectives of positive psychology with the audience while giving importance to the good habit formation and laid emphasis on unity of body and mind. TNSlaurels for Shishu NiketanChandigarh: Shaurya Chanana, a Class XI student of Shishu Niketan Model Senior Secondary School, Sector 22-D, brought laurels by winning the “HIMPEX-2020- Essay writing competition”. The event was organised by the Department of Posts, office of the Chief Postmaster General, Shimla. Earlier, Chanana had bagged second position in the Korean essay writing competition. Amita Khorana, school Principal, congratulated Shaurya on his achievement . TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/pu-boys-hostel-no-4-celebrates-lohri-198076
14-01-2021||Chandigarh||Riya, Sarthak lift singles titles in tennis tourney||Fifth seed Riya Kaushik stunned top seed Punjab’s Harleen Kaur Dhanda to win the girls’ U-18 title on the concluding day of the CLTA-AITA Championship Series (CS-3) Tennis Tournament at the Sector 10 CLTA Complex on Wednesday.Meanwhile, top seed and local contender Sarthak Gandhi won the boys’ U-18 title by registering a win over third seed Navya Verma from Punjab. Romen Singh, Chief Coach, CLTA, awarded the winners. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/riya-sarthak-lift-singles-titles-in-tennis-tourney-198051
14-01-2021||---||Panjab University told to submit Rs 25,000 before reply||Chandigarh, January 13Just about two months after Panjab University was put on notice on a petition seeking the quashing of a circular on “illegally” scrapping entrance examination for admission to LLM course on the grounds of the Covid outbreak, the Punjab and Haryana High Court has directed the acceptance of the university’s reply subject to the deposition of Rs 25,000.The direction by the Bench of Justice Jitendra Chauhan and Justice Vivek Puri came on a petition filed by Uday Partap Singh against the university and other respondents. The Bench observed that the court, on November 18, 2020, had directed the respondents to file a reply within three weeks. Further direction made it clear that a failure to do so within the stipulated period would entail costs of Rs25,000.The Bench further said: “The counsel for the respondents stated that the PU Registrar was unavailable on account of Covid-19 pandemic. Therefore, the reply could not be filed. The reply shall now be filed within a week. In case, the respondents deposit the costs, the court Registry is directed to accept the reply if it is done within a week from today.”Appearing in person through videoconferencing, Uday Partap Singh contended that Covid-19 had been taken as a ground in the circular for scraping the entrance examination for LLM and other postgraduate courses, but other universities and institutes under the same situation were conducting entrance examination with the help of the National Testing Agency.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/panjab-university-told-to-submit-rs-25-000-before-reply-198052
14-01-2021||Panchkula||Vendors in Panchkula see red in HSVP’s anti-encroachment drive||Asking the authorities to first identify a vending site for their proper rehabilitation, street vendors in Sector 20 put up a resistance against an anti-encroachment team of the Haryana Shehri Vikas Pradhikaran (HSVP) and the Panchkula Municipal Corporation (MC) and the district police.Onkar Singh, who runs a food stall, said street vendors were being harassed by the district authorities during the festive season.“Action is being taken without serving a prior notice. The authorities had earlier told us to continue our business at these places as they don’t have sites to allocate to us,” he said.An official of the HSVP said they were targeting encroachers in parts of the city as per the planned schedule of an anti-encroachment drive in coordination with the MC and the police.“We have also taken photographs of those occupying corridors, roads and pavements. We will serve a notice on the offenders,” he said.Local MLA Gian Chand Gupta and newly elected Mayor Kulbhushan Goyal have promised to make the city free from encroachments. They recently had asked district officials to run a special drive to remove encroachers. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/vendors-in-panchkula-see-red-in-hsvps-anti-encroachment-drive-198053
14-01-2021||---||Local lads log victory in cricket match||Chandigarh, January 13 A fine all-round performance by city lads helped them to log first win of the season in Chennai today. The local side logged a 112-win over Manipur in their opening match of the Syed Mustaq Ali Trophy to garner four points.   Chandigarh skipper Manan Vohra won the toss and elected to bat first. The side scored 178/5 in allotted 20 overs. Vohra opened with Sarul Kanwar and the duo raised a 41-run partnership. Ajay Singh accounted for Kanwar (14 off 17) to take Manipur’s first wicket of the day. Shivam Bhambri thereafter joined Vohra and the duo pushed the total further.   In reply, Manipur batsmen failed to set their feet on the crease and were restricted to 66/8 in 20 overs. Kishan scored unbeaten 20 off 35 balls, while TH Kishan also scored 20 off 24 balls. The duo was involved in a 40-run partnership to help Manipur reduce the defeat margin.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/local-lads-log-victory-in-cricket-match-198054
14-01-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab FC to face Gokulam Kerala today||RoundGlass Punjab FC will be looking forward to maintain their winning momentum as they face Gokulam Kerala in its second game during the Hero I-League at Salt Lake Stadium in Kolkata tomorrow.“This one will be tough for us. They have got a good team, a good budget and a good striking force. But we are looking forward to the challenge,” said Head Coach Curtis Fleming. He further added: “I think Jiten Murmu did a fantastic job for us. Sumeet Passi had hurt his ankle and hopefully, he will be back soon. All other clubs have submitted thirty players in the squad and we have twenty-seven. I am always on the lookout for players, but for now, we are focused on the game tomorrow with the squad we have.”Kiran Limbu, the goalkeeper of the team, said: “Our coach always gives imbibes confidence in players.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/punjab-fc-to-face-gokulam-kerala-today-198056
14-01-2021||Deepankar Sharda||‘Associations affiliated to COA without committee approval’||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, January 13The Technical Committee Chairman, Chandigarh Olympic Association (COA), alleged that the Secretary, COA, affiliated some sports associations without referring them to the affiliation/de-affiliation committee.Rajpal Chauhan, Chairman, Technical Committee, had written to Amrinder Singh Bazaz, president, COA, last month. The matter is significant as the associations affiliated to the COA possess the right to vote for choosing the next governing body. Over the time, allegations have been levelled against COA officials for giving affiliation to “bogus” associations.The COA is schedule to meet and elect the new House on January 27.Chauhan had written to Bazaz: “I was appointed as the Technical Committee head and was given the additional charge of affiliating and de-affiliating committees on November 1, 2017. In the annual general meeting of the COA held on December 4, 2020, I was shocked to know that the Honorary General Secretary, COA, gave affiliation to some state associations without consulting the committee concerned. No such powers were conferred on the official as per the COA rules. Information regarding this should be handed over to the committee to take an appropriate action or your good self may take an action in the interest of the COA.”“The matter of affiliation should have been brought to the notice of the designated committee. The general House had decided the same,” said Chauhan. On action report submitted to the House, Chauhan said: “No one approached the committee, otherwise we would have submitted a report.”Recently, the COA distributed Rs10,000 each among associations, out of which a few never conducted any championships. Some associations did not even bother to conduct state championships in the past few years, but were given the grant to distribute it further to their registered players. The COA is already in the dock for not conducting any championship from the past 13 years.Sources said even in next House meetings, office-bearers might use every way to pass on the COA’s baton either to their loyal counterparts or family members.The sources said Indian Olympic Association (IOA) Chief Narinder Dhruv Batra has also written a letter to the COA to stop the practice of affiliating associations that are not affiliated either to the IOA or the Ministry of the Youth Affairs and Sports (MYAS).||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/associations-affiliated-to-coa-without-committee-approval-198057
14-01-2021||Zirakpur||Two arrested with weapons||The police arrested two alleged robbers with weapons and five rounds of ammunition here today.  Three pistols, including a country-made one, five rounds of ammunition, a car with a fake number plate  and ammunition were recovered from the suspects. SP (Rural) Ravjot Kaur Grewal said both suspects were involved in armed robberies and they had been identified as Narinder Singh, alias KD, and Ravinder Kumar, alias Bania, both residents of Budana village in Hisar. The police had set up a naka near Ranjit Hotel in Baltana and stopped a car. One of the suspects, KD, was driving the car when the police checked the documents of the vehicle and found that the number plate was fake. The police searched the vehicle and found a pistol and ammunition. The police nabbed his accomplice, Ravinder Kumar, after questioning the main suspect. Several cases of loot were already registered against the suspects in Hisar. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/two-arrested-with-weapons-198058
14-01-2021||---||Panchkula firm to design MLA flats||Chandigarh, January 13 The Chandigarh Housing Board (CHB) has finalised a firm to design luxury flats for bureaucrats and MLAs of Punjab and Haryana governments at IT Park. An official said the design prepared by Panchkula-based Creative Consortium was selected after a contest. The CHB will construct luxury flats for the bureaucrats and MLAs of Punjab and Haryana and employees of the PGI on 6.73 acres at the Rajiv Gandhi Chandigarh Technology Park (IT Park). For starting the construction of the flats, the CHB has sent a reminder to both states and the PGI for releasing 25 per cent part payment. The official said the Haryana Government had informed the board that it had started the process for the partial payment of the flats, but they were yet to receive the money. He, however, said there was no response from the Punjab Government. The housing board is expected to construct 10 towers with 28 flats of 4-BHK each having a base price of Rs2 crore for each flat. The project is likely to cost Rs600 crore.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/panchkula-firm-to-design-mla-flats-198059
14-01-2021||---||Copies of farm laws burnt at Sector 17 Plaza||Chandigarh, January 13In a protest organised by civil society and student groups at the Sector 17 Plaza, copies of the controversial farm laws were burnt by people to mark the Lohri festival.A crowd of about a hundred people started the protest with a two-minute silence for those who died at protest sites near Delhi, where farmers from across the country are protesting the laws.Joining in, actor-politician Gul Panag shared: “The protest has now become a mass movement of sorts, much on the account of incredible music by a lot of singers such as Ranjeet Bawa, Kanwar Grewal and Harf Cheema.From what one hears, there has been no representation of anti-farm law voice in the four-member committee formed by the SC,” she added.Punjabi Singer Noor Chahal said: “I come from the agricultural background and can understand the pain of the farmers.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/copies-of-farm-laws-burnt-at-sector-17-plaza-198060
14-01-2021||Chandigarh||Veterans flay decision||Retired honorary commissioned officers of Army, Navy and Air Force, under the banner of the National Federation of Defence Honorary Commissioned Officers, have objected to the Centre’s decision to freeze 18-month DA and DR for armed forces personnel, veterans, and other staff, citing Covid-19. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/veterans-flay-decision-198061
14-01-2021||---||Covid fails to dampen Lohri spirit in Chandigarh||Chandigarh, January 13The threat of a new Covid-19 strain failed to dampen the Lohri festivities in Chandigarh as vendors selling firewood, sweets and other accessories reported good sales.While residents’ welfare associations did not hold ‘sanjhi’ (common) Lohri events, people in the city preferred to light firewood in more personal and intimate gatherings to celebrate the festival.Lakhbir, a firewood seller near Sector 32-33 roundabout, said: “We sold 8 quintals of wood. We have been setting up a shop here for the past four years. I have earned a profit of Rs2,000 a day.” Lakhbir sells firewood for Rs15 to Rs20 per kg.Another vendor Sachin Kumar in Sector 18 said: “We sold about three quintals of firewood in a day. The business has been good.”Sukh Sehaj Singh, a resident of Sector 44, said: “Though we don’t have the sanjhi Lohri festivities here this time, we are celebrating at our homes with friends.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/covid-fails-to-dampen-lohri-spirit-in-chandigarh-198062
14-01-2021||---||CBA second state Championship from Jan 28||Chandigarh, January 13The Chandigarh Badminton Association (CBA) will organise the Yonex Sunrise Chandigarh State Badminton Championship for boys and girls in the age group of U-13, U-15 and U-17 from January 28 to 31 at the Sector 38 Sports Complex. This will be the second state championship to be organsied by the association.Last month, the association had conducted the Chandigarh State Badminton Championship for junior (U-19) boys and girls and senior (men and women) categories at the same venue. Over 200 players participated in the championship, conducted in a proper and safe environment.Surinder Mahajan, Secretary, CBA, said, “Interested players of U-13, U-15 and U-17 categories can confirm their entries with the organisers before January 20.”Players can obtain entry forms from their respective coaching centres. Only players registered with the CBA will be eligible to participate in the championship.“The championship will be organised adhering to the Covid-19 guidelines issued by the Government of India and the Ministry of Youth Affairs and Sports and the Chandigarh Sports Department. Along with the entry form, players will be provided a set of SOPs, which are strictly to be followed,” Mahajan added.“The association has decided to conduct state championships for the remaining categories for the benefit of players. Winners and participants on the basis of their performance in this state championship will get advantage while taking admission to various colleges and universities. Position holders will also be eligible for scholarships and gradation certificates from the UT Sports Department,” said Mahajan.It has been also announced that the local teams for national championship, only for the 2020 session, will be selected on the basis of performance in this particular championship. However, for the 2021 national championship, the association will conduct separate trials to select Chandigarh teams.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/cba-second-state-championship-from-jan-28-198044
14-01-2021||---||Man found dead in septic tank||Patiala, January 13 A 35-year-old garbage collector was found dead in a septic tank of a house in the Baradari area of the city late night on Tuesday. The garbage collector was reportedly asked to clean the manhole by owners of a house, said the police.  The body has been sent to the Government Rajindra Hospital for the postmortem. It has been learnt that the deceased, who was identified as Ayush, worked as garbage collector of several households in the Baradari area regularly.  On January 11, a house owner, reportedly, asked Ayush to clean a septic tank. Almost after 24 hours, Ayush was found dead in the same septic tank.  Yogesh Sharma, Deputy Superintendent of Police (DSP), said the house owner claimed that they thought the garbage collector had gone home after cleaning the septic tank. The police had started an investigation into the whole matter, the DSP added. “We have started investigation and action will be taken against any sort of negligence whether intentional or unintentional,” said the DSP.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/man-found-dead-in-septic-tank-198045
14-01-2021||---||Health Department inspects poultry farms in Patiala district||Patiala, January 13After hundreds of dead chickens were found dumped near Rakhra village of the district, the Health Department today inspected many poultry farms around the city. A health team, led by the district epidemiologist, visited poultry farms in the area and also screened workers. The Health Department said workers were checked for flu, however, none exhibited symptoms.Notably, the Health Department swung into action after hundreds of dead chickens were found dumped in a field near Rakhra village of the district on Tuesday. The incident sent alarm bells ringing for the district administration and residents.Dr Divjot Singh, district epidemiologist, screened workers and directed them to visit nearby health care centres in case anyone had bird flu symptoms. “No worker had flu symptoms. However, owners of poultry farms have been asked to keep a vigil on the health of workers,” he said.Meanwhile, the Department of Animal Husbandry has already sent 24 samples collected from three poultry farms near Rakhra village to laboratory for testing.Rajinder Goyal, deputy director, Department of Animal Husbandry, said there were around five poultry farms near field where dead chickens were found dumped. However, only three farms had chicken, he added. “We took eight samples from each farm and sent them to Jalandhar lab,” he said.Three poultry farms near field where chickens were found dumped did not have any dead chickens, he added.It seemed that someone from far flung place might have dumped chicken in the field, he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/health-department-inspects-poultry-farms-in-patiala-district-198046
14-01-2021||---||PU calls online BoF meeting on Jan 21||Chandigarh, January 13  Panjab University (PU) will conduct the next Board of Finance (BoF) meeting on January 21. The meeting will be held online, which will again raise a controversy among its members and the authorities concerned.  The previous meeting, which was scheduled for December 15, was postponed after board members and the authorities remained inconclusive on conducing the meeting online or offline.  While many members, including officials of the Punjab Government, insisted on conducting a physical meeting, the PU authorities wanted to hold an online meeting.  Earlier, the BoF meeting was held in August 2019. The meeting is important for approving PU’s estimated budget and take clearance from members on the balance sheet. Sources claimed that the BoF is scheduled to take a call on university’s revised budget for 2021-22.  “The meeting is scheduled to be held on January 21. It will be held online. Important approvals regarding financial stability of Panjab University will be discussed at the meeting. The university is already facing financial losses and this meeting is important for discussing the future course of action,” said a BoF member.  Meanwhile, members are again demanding a physical meeting of the BoF. Since relaxation in the lockdown restrictions, the authorities and members of various bodies, including Senate, Syndicate and BoF have been demanding a physical meeting. However, the authorities have insisted on calling online meetings.  “Members will stress on calling a physical meeting. On other hand, the authorities are adamant on calling an online meeting. Let’s see, if this meeting is also postponed or not,” said another official.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/pu-calls-online-bof-meeting-on-jan-21-198047
14-01-2021||---||PSEB releases Class V, VIII exam schedule||Mohali,January 13 The Punjab School Education Board on Wednesday released the schedule for the annual examinations of Class V and VIII. Controller of Examinations JR Mehrotra said the examination for Class V would be held from March 16 to March 23 and for Class VIII from March 22 to April 7. The examination would be conducted at the centres set up in different schools from 9 am to 12:15 pm. Practical examinations for Class V would be conducted at the school level from March 24 to 27 as per the dates fixed by the school. Similarly, practical examinations for Class VIII would be conducted from April 8 to 19 at the school level as per the scheduled dates. The date sheet and necessary information is available on the website of Punjab School Education Board www.pseb.ac.in.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/pseb-releases-class-v-viii-exam-schedule-198048
14-01-2021||---||Punjabi University students, faculty protest against farm laws||Patiala, January 13Students of Punjabi University today burned copies of farm laws introduced by the Centre as a mark of protest on Lohri. The festival was celebrated by enacting plays centred on farming, farm laws and harwork of farmers in fields. University professors and non-teaching officials also burned copies of the farm laws at another event during the day.A protest was also held on the occasion by students associated with political parties, including Punjab Radical Student Union (PRSU), Democratic Students’ Organisation (DSO) and All India Research Scholar Association (AIRSA).Balkar Singh, a student leader of the DSO said, “We are burning copies of the three farm laws after a call given by farmers’ unions.”Sandeep Kaur, state president, PRSU, said, “The festival of Lohri is associated with the common man. Dulla Bhatti according to Punjabi folklore was the saviour of the people, which carries significance in the Lohri folklore. Today’s festival is associated with raising voice for the people and as such we are burning copies of the farm laws.”A similar protest over the farm laws was organised by teaching and non-teaching faculty members of the university during the day. Avneet Pal Singh, PUTA secretary, said, “We burnt copies of farm laws as they are against the farmers’ community and common people.”The teaching and non-teaching faculty members of the university were supporting farmers in their protest against the farm laws, he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/punjabi-university-students-faculty-protest-against-farm-laws-198049
14-01-2021||Mohali||Mohali MC elections: Patch-up bid between SAD, Kulwant faction||Shiromani Akali Dal is trying hard to woo back former Mohali Mayor Kulwant Singh and his flock for the upcoming Mohali Municipal Corproation (MC) elections after they announced to contest the poll independently. Sources said senior SAD leaders are preparing the ground for a meeting with the disgruntled group on Thursday.A week ago, SAD announced its first list of 28 candidates for the upcoming MC elections, but the name of Kulwant Singh and his loyalists were missing in it. Kulwant and 25 former councillors announced on January 11 to contest the MC elections independently. Some councillors were not keen to try their luck in the elections under the leadership of Prem Singh Chandumajra, the sources added.Earlier, SAD president Sukhbir Badal had constituted a committee for the Mohali MC elections. Chandumajra was chairman of the committee, while NK Sharma, Charanjit Brar and Kamaljit Singh Ruby were its members. Chanduma said remaining candidates would be announced soon. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/mohali-mc-elections-patch-up-bid-between-sad-kulwant-faction-198050
14-01-2021||---||Octogenarian duped of Rs 30K, gold bangle||Chandigarh, January 13  Two fraudsters duped an 82-year-old Sector 33 resident of Rs30,000 and a gold bangle by impersonating as friends of his son.  According to the police, the complainant, Gurnam Singh Gill, reported that he was at his house when a young boy came and told him that he was his son’s friend. The other suspect was waiting outside in a Honda City car bearing a Delhi number.  The suspect befooled the complainant by claiming that complainant’s son has asked for money and some jewellery. The complainant gave Rs30,000 and a gold bangle following which the suspect left. While the suspect was leaving, the complainant’s son also reached there and questioned the suspect, who replied that he had come to meet Gurnam.  The two suspects then escaped from the spot.  The police were informed about the incident following which a case under Sections 406 and 34 of the Indian Penal Code was registered at the Sector 34 police station and an investigation has been initiated into it.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/octogenarian-duped-of-rs-30k-gold-bangle-198035
14-01-2021||Panchkula||15 fresh cases in Panchkula district||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/15-fresh-cases-in-panchkula-district-198036
14-01-2021||Sandeep Rana||MC stuck in tender process, could’ve earned Rs 5 cr in year||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, January 13The cash-starved MC could have earned a revenue of about Rs5 crore in the year gone by had it not been still stuck in the tendering process of advertisements on 55 public toilets.The tender was floated in last January for the first time after a gap of about five years.Shockingly, it has failed to allot the work till now. The civic body can earn around Rs28 crore through this in five years.It did not get a response from any agency during the tendering process initially. However, even after the tendering process was completed and a company was selected, the work could not be allotted on account of various approvals and formalities.Interestingly, the issue that has cropped up now is that of the 55 toilet blocks for which the tender was floated, 18 have been demolished for renovation.The company selected for the work had to write to the MC to recalculate the area and work out related issues. As a result, the process got delayed further.A senior official said, “All formalities have been completed now and the work will be allotted soon.”Leader of the Opposition Devinder Singh Babla said, “The MC keeps taxing people, but on its part, it has failed to earn revenue from the venture. It should explain why even after one year, the work has still not been allotted.”The MC has often claimed it does not have sufficient funds even to pay salaries to its employees. Work on the renovation of several toilets is also stuck due to shortage of funds.The corporation had 191 public conveniences where advertisements were allowed in the city. However, 55 toilets had a bigger area and had a potential for advertisements, thus only these were being considered. Only a few toilets under the CHB in Sector 34 have advertisements in the city at present.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/mc-stuck-in-tender-process-couldve-earned-rs-5-cr-in-year-198037
14-01-2021||Amit Bathla||Confirmatory reports from Bhopal awaited, threat of flu spread looms||Tribune News ServicePanchkula, January 13A delay in the arrival of reports from the National Institute of High Security Animal Diseases (NIHSAD), Bhopal, for confirmation of avian influenza at more poultry units in the Barwala belt can cause the disease to spread further.The samples from the Jalandhar-based Northern Regional Disease Diagnostic Laboratory (NRDDL), which reported bird flu in samples of four more poultry farms other than two epicentres detected earlier, was dispatched to Bhopal on January 8 for confirmation, as per the standard protocol, and reached there the next evening.At least four days have passed since then, but confirmatory reports from the lab are still awaited.When asked about the delay in the arrival of reports, Deputy Commissioner Mukesh Kumar Ahuja said they were taking regular updates from the Bhopal lab on confirmatory reports sent by the NRDDL, Jalandhar. “We are being told that the lab is receiving samples from across the country and is under immense pressure. Hence, it is taking more than the usual time to provide reports,” he said.The epicentres will rise in an event of confirmation of bird flu at more poultry farms, following which a new action plan will come into existence. As a result, the infected zone and the number of birds to be culled will increase.For now, culling operations are underway within 1-km radius of the two epicentres – Nature Poultry Farm in Ganauli village and Siddharth Poultry Farm in Kheri village.The district administration today culled a total of 7,770 birds at Narender Poultry Farm to contain the spread and break the chain of transmission of avian influenza or bird flu. This was the fifth day of its culling drive.So far, 37,695 birds have been culled while 1,340 eggs have been destroyed.For the third consecutive day, more samples were taken from poultry farms located in the radius of 10 km of the epicentres.Yesterday, two poultry farms — Naveen and Sunil in Kheri village — were excluded of the infected zone.The Deputy Commissioner had claimed that these were found falling beyond 1-km radius of the epicentres when it was measured again.While culling operations at two epicentres — Siddharth and Nature — have already been completed, the drive is underway at Narender Poultry Farm.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/confirmatory-reports-from-bhopal-awaited-threat-of-flu-spread-looms-198038
14-01-2021||Naina Mishra||Vials limited, vaccination sites in Chandigarh halved to four||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, January 13As Chandigarh has received a limited number of Covishield doses, the UT Health Department has decided to limit the number of vaccination sites from eight to four.There will now be two vaccination sites at the Government Medical College and Hospital in Sector 32, and one each at Government Multi-Specialty Hospital in Sector 16 and the Civil Hospital in Sector 45.Dr Amandeep Kaur Kang, Director, Health Services, UT, said, “The Covishield doses are limited to 12,000 with which we can inoculate 5,400 healthcare workers. Assuming 10 per cent wastage, a total of 10,800 doses will remain with us, of which 5,400 doses will be given on the first day and the remaining 5,400 doses will be stored to be given to beneficiaries after a gap of 28 days.”Dr Kang added, “A vial has 10 doses that can be stored for four hours. If a vial is opened, it will have to be used within those four hours. If the required number of beneficiaries do not turn up during that time, the vaccine may get wasted.”Dr Kang said there would be 10 sessions at each site (one each day). On any given vaccination site, not more than 100 healthcare workers would be vaccinated. The first phase of the vaccination drive will start on January 16 in Chandigarh.Meanwhile, the PGI has 12,000 healthcare workers to be vaccinated within the institute. Its consignment of vaccine is yet to be received from the Central Government.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/vials-limited-vaccination-sites-in-chandigarh-halved-to-four-198039
14-01-2021||---||6K Panchkula health workers to be inoculated first||Panchkula, January 13Panchkula will get its first consignment of Covid-19 vaccine by tomorrow or Friday, a day before the vaccination drive is to begin in the district.According to officials, over 9,000 doses of Covishield will reach the district.The vaccine for all 22 districts (2.41 lakh doses) reached at the Chandigarh international airport today from Pune and subsequently taken to the state vaccine store in Kurukshetra.Deputy Commissioner Mukesh Kumar Ahuja and other state health officials were among those present to receive the consignment at the Chandigarh airport.“The vaccine will be dispatched to Panchkula after the exact allocation for the district is finalised. We may receive it by tomorrow or day after,” said Dr Meenu Sasan, District Immunisation Officer.“In all, 16 session sites have been identified. In the first phase, around 6,000 healthcare workers and frontline workers will be administered the first dose. It will take five days to complete the process,” she said. On day one of the drive, 1,500 beneficiaries will be inoculated.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/6k-panchkula-health-workers-to-be-inoculated-first-198040
14-01-2021||---||Peacock, 13 crows found dead in Chandigarh||Chandigarh, January 13 As many as 13 crows and a peacock were found dead in different areas of the city on Wednesday. Debendra Dalai, Chief Conservator of Forests, UT, said the peacock was found dead in Botanical Garden, while a carcass each of crow was found in Sector 38 (West), Mauli Jagran, Mani Majra, Janta Colony, two each in Dhanas and the PU campus and five in Campa Plot in the city. Dalai said eight samples sent to the Regional Disease Diagnostic Laboratory, Jalandhar, to test for avian influenza had already been tested negative, while the reports of 13 samples sent later were yet to be received. Thirteen birds, eight crows and five pigeons, were found dead in the city yesterday. More than 50 birds have been found dead in the city in the past more than a week. Dr Kanwarjit Singh, Joint Director, Animal Husbandry, UT, said there was no need to panic and it was safe to eat properly cooked chickens and eggs. He said the mortality of birds in the city could be due to cold weather.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/peacock-13-crows-found-dead-in-chandigarh-198042
14-01-2021||---||Tourism Dept celebrates Lohri with special kids||Chandigarh, January 13 The Department of Tourism and the UT Administration celebrated Lohri festival with special children at Aashrey Home, Sector 47-D, with enthusiasm while following the Covid-19 protocol.  The chief guest at the celebration was Manoj Parida, Adviser to the UT Administrator. Parida was accompanied by his wife. Arun Kumar Gupta, Principal Secretary, Home-cum-Tourism, UT, Nitika Pawar, Director Tourism, and Dr Jasbinder Kaur, Director Principal, GMCH, Sector 32, were also present on the occasion.  The function started with traditional welcome of the chief guest with Punjabi boliyaan, folk songs and dhol. It was a gala event for special children. The bonfire, a key feature of Lohri, was kept burning throughout the celebration, lighting up the spirit of joy, happiness and togetherness.   Parida distributed blankets, water campers and sweets among special children to make the occasion special for them. Officials of Aashrey Home thanked Parida and the Tourism Department for celebrating Lohri with children and making the day special for them.  Nitika Pawar said, “The Chandigarh Tourism Department endeavours to promote not only tourist spots, but also cultural and festive traditions of the City Beautiful.” Mohali DC distributes gifts among 135 girls Mohali Deputy Commissioner (DC) Girish Dayalan participated in the Lohri function at Jyoti Saroop Kanya Asra Sanstha, Randhawan Road, Kharar, today.   “Programmes will be held for the entire month at various places in all districts of the state during which 1.5 lakh newborn girls will be felicitated and their parents will be handed over certificates signed by the Punjab Chief Minister,” said the DC.   Gifts were given to 135 girls by the DC on the occasion.   The president of Jyoti Saroop Kanya Asra Sanstha, Dr Harminder Singh, his wife Harbhajan Kaur and son Amandeep Singh, district child protection officer Navpreet Kaur, district programme officer Sukhdeep Singh, child development project officer Arvinder Kaur and Gurwinder Kaur, Maninder Singh and Kiranpal Kaur and others were also present at the function.  Minster gives gifts to girls, boys  ‘Dheeyan di Lohri’ was celebrated at a state-level function by the Health Department at the district hospital in Mohali. Health and Family Welfare Minister Balbir Singh Sidhu lit up the bonfire and greeted people on the occasion of Maghi and Lohri.  He went to the maternity ward of the hospital and distributed winter clothes and blankets among newborns and their mothers. In all, 45 girls and 15 boys were given gifts by the minister. Lohri functions were held today in almost all government health institutions and wellness centres in the district. Bar Association celebrates Lohri  Health and Family Welfare Minister Punjab Balbir Singh Sidhu along with members of bar association celebrated “Lohri festival of daughters” at the District Administrative Complex ground in Mohali today. He distributed gifts among girls on the occasion. Congratulating people on the occasion of Lohri Sidhu said the Punjab Government had fulfilled all its promises made in the election manifesto by implementing welfare schemes for all sections of society in the state. 200 kits distributed among ITI students Health and Family Welfare Minister Balbir Singh Sidhu distributed 200 kits of dress designing, tailor tools, sewing machine and interlocking electrician machine  among students, who passed from the ITI.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/tourism-dept-celebrates-lohri-with-special-kids-198043
14-01-2021||---||Rs 35-lakh relief for man in medical negligence case||Mohali, January 13The State Consumer Disputes Redressal Commission, Punjab, has awarded a compensation of Rs35 lakh to a Baltana resident, Ajay Kumar, who lost his left leg “due to sheer medical negligence and deficiency in service” on the part of JP Hospital near Big Bazaar, Zirakpur.The complainant, through his counsel Updip Singh, stated that he met with an accident near Dera Bassi on August 30, 2016, and suffered multiple injuries, including a fracture on his knee. He was admitted to the Civil Hospital, Dera Bassi, and after giving first aid, doctors discharged him the same day.Thereafter, due to serious pain in his knee, he was admitted to JP Hospital, Zirkapur, and doctors conducted an operation on September 2. During his stay at the hospital from August 30 to September 10, he could not recover from the injuries due to the negligence of doctors as they failed to operate and implant the plate properly. He got seriously infected and was discharged despite the fact that he could not recover.Due to non-recovery in the post-operative period, he got admitted again to the hospital on September 21. During the period of his second admission, his limb got damaged but he was discharged from the hospital on October 6 despite the fact that his operations were not successful and his condition was pitiable.In the meantime, the complainant and his relatives visited various hospitals, including the PGI, where doctors advised amputation of his left leg in order to save his life. However, his relatives took him to Sanjay Orthopaedic and Spine Centre, Dehradun, for treatment, where he remained admitted from October October 6, 2016, to November 3 for treatment and was discharged. He was again admitted to Sanjay Orthopaedic and Spine Centre, Dehradun, on November 18 and an operation was done on November 19 for saving the affected part of his leg and he was discharged from the hospital on November 20. The complainant spent a huge amount on his treatment, but his leg could not be cured and he has been rendered physically challenged due to medical negligence.During the case, the hospital denied that the complainant suffered any physical loss while being admitted to the hospital. It maintained that the same course of treatment was followed by Sanjay Orthopaedic and Spine Centre. Thus, there was no negligence on the part of the Zirakpur-based hospital.In its December 22, 2020, directions, the commission awarded a lump sum compensation of Rs35 lakh to the complainant, along with 8 per cent interest per annum from the date of filing of the complaint till realisation.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/rs-35-lakh-relief-for-man-in-medical-negligence-case-198077
14-01-2021||---||ED arrests former TMC MP KD Singh in Alchemist group money-laundering case||New Delhi, January 13The Enforcement Directorate (ED) on Wednesday said it had arrested former TMC Rajya Sabha MP KD Singh under the Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA) in a case relating to certain unexplained financial transactions.Singh, who was elected to Rajya Sabha in April 2014 on a TMC ticket, was placed under arrest by the ED after he “failed to explain certain transactions pertaining to the money-laundering case” in which he is allegedly involved, official sources in the agency said.Meanwhile, a Delhi court today sent Singh to three days ED custody after the agency said he was needed for custodial interrogation.Singh, who was arrested Tuesday night was produced before Special Judge Anuradha Shukla Bhardwaj, who accepted the ED's contention for former MP's custodial interrogation.“He was evasive in replies, has a non cooperative attitude. From bank statements it can be seen that funds were diverted to own companies,” ED's Special Public Prosecutor NK told the court, seeking 14-day custodial interrogation.In September 2019, the ED had carried out searches on the premises linked to Singh in New Delhi and Chandigarh in connection with the 14 companies of Alchemist Group related to and controlled by his son Karan Deep Singh.During searches, according to ED, a number of documents reflecting the circular nature of transactions, digital evidence and property documents were seized. Search at the official residence of KD Singh in Delhi resulted in the recovery of Rs 32 lakh in cash along with foreign exchange worth $10,000.Investigation under the PMLA by the ED was initiated in 2018 on the basis of FIRs registered by Kolkata Police under sections relevant to cheating and criminal conspiracy against Singh, his son, Alchemist Township India Limited, Alchemist Holdings Limited and various other companies and directors linked with the group for allegedly cheating thousands of customers.According to the ED, the former TMC MP used his companies, including Alchemist Township India Limited and Alchemist Holdings Limited, to raise huge amounts of money collected from customers in the garb of investments by promising them high returns. The money was also raised against the sale and booking of plots and flats, the agency had said.Officials in the ED said the funds raised were allegedly not used for the intended purpose and were allegedly diverted and siphoned off to various group companies. “Money so collected from the innocent public was transferred in a circular manner in order to conceal and layer in a fraudulent way. Further, various entities involved in this process have dummy directors,” said an ED official.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/ed-arrests-former-tmc-mp-kd-singh-in-alchemist-group-money-laundering-case-197869
