15-01-2021||Chandigarh||Arrangements in place for COVID-19 vaccination drive in Punjab, Haryana||All arrangements are in place in Punjab and Haryana for the launch of the COVID-19 vaccination drive on Saturday with healthcare workers to be given the shots first, officials said on Friday.Health workers will comprise doctors, nurses, paramedic staff and sanitation workers, they added.Fifty-nine sites have been identified in Punjab and 77 in Haryana for the vaccination drive on Saturday, the officials said, adding that the vaccines will be administered to 100 beneficiaries at each site.Punjab has received 2.04 lakh doses while Haryana has got 2.41 lakh doses of the COVID-19 vaccine, which have already been sent to the respective districts in both the states for the voluntary inoculation drive.“Among healthcare workers, there are doctors, nurses, pharmacists, laboratory technicians, paramedic staff, sanitation workers, whether they are regular or on contract, working in hospitals,” Punjab’s Principal Secretary, Health, Hussan Lal said.Punjab has around 1.74 lakh health workers, he added.The vaccines will be administered four days a week, Lal said.Punjab Health Minister Balbir Singh Sidhu said only the registered beneficiaries, whose data has been uploaded on the CoWIN site—an online platform for monitoring the delivery of the COVID-19 vaccine—will be vaccinated.The sites that have already received the first doses of the vaccine shall necessarily plan for the second doses post 28 days according to protocol, he said.In the first phase, health workers will be administered the vaccine.After the health workers, the vaccine will be administered to the frontline workers, including policemen, paramilitary forces’ personnel, sanitation workers and disaster management volunteers.Thereafter, people above 50 years of age and those aged below 50 years with co-morbid conditions will be covered under the inoculation drive, officials said.Haryana Director General, Health Services Suraj Bhan Kamboj said 77 sites have been identified for Saturday’s inoculation drive in the state, which has around two lakh health workers.In Chandigarh, there will be four sites for administering the COVID-19 vaccine.Chandigarh has received 12,000 doses of the vaccine. — PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/arrangements-in-place-for-covid-19-vaccination-drive-in-punjab-haryana-198930
15-01-2021||Chandigarh||Congress march to Haryana Raj Bhawan in support of farmers stopped in Chandigarh; Selja, Hooda taken into custody||Haryana Congress chief Kumari Selja, Leader of Opposition BS Hooda and other party leaders were taken into preventive custody by Chandigarh Police after they tried to march towards the Haryana Raj Bhawan here in protest against the new farm laws on Friday. Chandigarh Police stopped Congress protestors just outside their office in Sector 9.The police took Congress leaders, including Hooda and Selja, under preventive detention. They were first taken to the Sector 3 police station.From there, the Congress leaders tried to move towards Haryana Raj Bhawan. They were again taken in preventive custody and moved to sector 17 police station.The congress had organised the ‘Kisan Adhikar Diwas’, in support of the farmers’ agitation against the new farm laws, in Chandigarh's Sector-9 on Friday.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/congress-march-to-haryana-raj-bhawan-in-support-of-farmers-stopped-in-chandigarh-selja-hooda-taken-into-custody-198888
15-01-2021||Amit Bathla||They treat cattle as holy, but leave them on roads, says victim’s uncle||Tribune News ServicePanchkula, January 14A 19-year-old boy, Avik, couldn’t see many mornings of the New Year. The teenager, a student of DAV College in Chandigarh, became the latest victim of stray cattle on January 9, a few days prior to the inauguration of the Sukhdarshanpur cowshed, which is being termed revolutionary to make the city free from stray cows.The boy was driving an Activa, with his two friends riding pillion, to his house in Sector 12 from Ramgarh when a stray cattle came in their way. To prevent a collision with the animal, Avik lost control of the scooter, which skidded and hit the divider. The mishap proved fatal for him.The son of retired soldier Hema Ram and Saroj Devi was gone in a flash, leaving them in despair. The birthday party from where Avik was returning turned out to be his last joyful moment.“Experiencing an excruciating pain, his parents couldn’t even talk. The ‘ultimate loss’ has shattered their faith in life,” said Avik’s uncle Harlal Singh.“While they (government) treat cows as gaumata, they leave them on the road putting commuters’ lives at risk. If they consider them as holy, at least they should treat them well. The animal can be served better in the confinement,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/they-treat-cattle-as-holy-but-leave-them-on-roads-says-victims-uncle-198868
15-01-2021||---||Panjab University created unfortunate anomalous situation: HC||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, January 14Expressing anguish over “unfortunate anomalous situation” created by Panjab University in giving weightage for admissions, the Punjab and Haryana High Court today recommend a relook into the entire issue from the next session.The matterThe issue before the Bench was whether the PU was correct in publishing the notice, dated November 28, 2020, for withdrawing the resolution, dated September 2, 2020, for granting four marks weightage to students with the “legal studies” subject in Class XII exams for admission to the BA-LLB (Honours) five-year integrated course.“The dissatisfaction that the students have regarding the admission process every academic year has to be ironed out as it is not expected of the students, be it future lawyers, to waste their precious formative years in the Courts seeking relief,” the Bench of Justice Jaswant Singh and Justice Sant Parkash asserted.The Bench was hearing a bunch of petitions filed against the university and other respondents by Smriti and other petitioners through senior counsel SK Garg Narwana, Vishal Garg Narwana, Puneet Gupta, Sandeep Moudgil, Sandeep Suri and Pardhuman Garg. The PU was represented by Akshay Kumar Goel.The Bench asserted that weightage was being granted to one stream of students, but was unavailable to other streams for similar courses published under the same prospectus.The issue before the Bench was whether the PU was correct in publishing notice dated November 28, 2020, for withdrawing resolution dated September 2, 2020, for granting four-mark weightage to students with “legal studies” subject in Class XII exams for admission to BA-LLB (Honours) five-year integrated course.The Bench added the hopes and aspirations of the students, who applied under the prospectus could not be scuttled by introducing a corrigendum or resolution dated September 2, 2020, on granting weightage. A change in the conditions of the prospectus could be conceived of and allowed if such power was specifically reserved while making the prospectus public.“The resolution dated September 2, 2020, having a drastic effect, according to us, was nothing but a bona fide mistake and therefore, it was rightly withdrawn by the PU after rejection by the Vice-Chancellor,” the Bench added.“The anomaly is amplified now even more, in view of the fact that students are to be granted admission on the basis of their marks in Class XII examination on account of scrapping of the written entrance exam,” the Bench added.Before parting with the case, the Bench added it strongly felt there was a larger issue involved regarding discrimination amongst similar courses offered by the PU. The Bench, however, had no option but not to interfere in the petitions and address the larger issue of the faulty university Calendar.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/panjab-university-created-unfortunate-anomalous-situation-hc-198856
15-01-2021||Chandigarh||Cold conditions persist in Punjab, Haryana||There was no let-up in cold weather conditions in Punjab and Haryana on Friday with Bathinda being the coldest place at 3.8 degrees Celsius, an official of the Meteorological Department here said.A thick blanket of fog enveloped several places in the two states in the morning, reducing visibility and causing inconvenience to commuters.In Punjab, Amritsar recorded a low of 4.8 degrees Celsius, Ludhiana 6.8 degrees Celsius and Patiala 6.4 degrees Celsius.The minimum temperatures in Pathankot, Adampur, Halwara and Gurdaspur were 7.8 degrees Celsius, 6.2 degrees Celsius, 5.7 degrees Celsius and 11.8 degrees Celsius respectively.In Haryana, Ambala, Hisar and Karnal experienced cold weather conditions at 4.8 degrees Celsius, 5.5 degrees Celsius and 6.4 degrees Celsius respectively.The mercury settled at 6.3 degrees Celsius, 7.8 degrees Celsius, 7.6 degrees Celsius and 6.7 degrees Celsius in Narnaul, Rohtak, Bhiwani and Sirsa respectively.Chandigarh, the joint capital of the two states, recorded a low of 7.2 degrees Celsius, two degrees above normal. —PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/cold-conditions-persist-in-punjab-haryana-198849
15-01-2021||Ramkrishan Upadhyay||Conviction of 3 upheld in conductor hiring exam||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, January 14Dr Sushil Kumar Garg, special CBI Judge, upheld the conviction of three persons in the Chandigarh Transport Undertaking (CTU) bus conductor recruitment exam scam.Rajinder Kumar, Sanjay Bhardwaj and Sandeep Kumar were convicted by the CBI Judicial Court and were sentenced to one and a half years of jail in January last year.All convicts had filed appeals in the special CBI court against the sentence. The court has dismissed the appeals.The CTU had issued an advertisement for the recruitment of conductors in 2010.On the day of the written examination, the CBI received a tip-off that some other persons were giving the exam on behalf of the applicants. During the surprise checking at one of the examination centres, Government Model Senior Secondary School, Sector 23, Chandigarh, Sanjay Bhardwaj, one of the convicts, was found writing the examination by impersonating Rajinder who was rounded up by a joint surprise check team.During an inquiry, Sanjay Bhardwaj stated that Sandeep Kumar, a resident of Sonepat, had brought him to the city to appear in the said examination in place of the actual candidate. Sandeep Kumar was waiting outside in the vicinity of the centre. The CBI arrested the three persons and cases were registered against them. After completion of the investigation, a challan was presented against the accused for the commission of offences under Section 120-B of the IPC read with Sections 419, 420 and 467 read with Sections 511, 468 and 471 of the IPC.The trio was sentenced to rigorous imprisonment for one and a half years in an order pronounced on January 14, 2020, by Ravish Kaushik, Special Judicial Magistrate, CBI court.The convicts challenged the order on various grounds. But after hearings the arguments, Dr Sushil Kumar Garg, Appellate Authority/Special Judge, observed that the trial court rightly held that the appellants had hatched a criminal conspiracy and agreed to commit the illegal acts of impersonation, forgery and cheating. The court observed that there was no reason to interfere in the judgment of the trial court.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/conviction-of-3-upheld-in-conductor-hiring-exam-198821
15-01-2021||Saurabh Malik||HC: Can rely on WhatsApp messages during probe||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, January 14The Punjab and Haryana High Court has ruled that an investigating agency can rely upon WhatsApp messages during the course of a probe. Justice Jaishree Thakur of the High Court added that reliance could, however, be placed on the messages only after complying with provisions of Section 65-B of the Indian Evidence Act.The riderJustice Jaishree Thakur of the Punjab & Haryana High Court added that reliance could, however, be placed on the messages only after complying with provisions of Section 65-B of Indian Evidence Act.Needless to say that the Narcotics Bureau will always be at liberty to rely upon the WhatsApp messages after due compliance with provisions of Section 65-B. - Justice Jaishree ThakurThe provision makes it clear that electronic records are required to be certified by a person occupying a responsible official position for being admissible as evidence in court proceedings.Justice Thakur was hearing a petition filed against the Union of India by Rakesh Kumar Singla through senior advocate RS Rai and Rubina Vermani for grant of regular bail to the petitioner in a case registered on June 12, 2020, under provisions of the NDPS Act at the NCB police station, zonal unit, Sector 25(W), Chandigarh.“Needless to say that the Narcotics Bureau will always be at liberty to rely upon the WhatsApp messages after due compliance with provisions of Section 65-B...,” Justice Thakur ruled.The ruling came after counsel Sanjay Vashisth, appearing on behalf of the Narcotics Bureau, submitted that almost 57,000 tablets of tramadol hydrochloride (100 mg) were recovered, which amounted to commercial quantity. A co-accused admitted to having sent the consignment to another person at the petitioner’s behest and was totally unaware of the contents of the parcel, he argued.It was also argued that screenshots of WhatsApp messages, available with the NCB, would connect the petitioner with the contraband. A message showed transfer of some amount by the petitioner to the account belonging to the husband of the co-accused. It was also argued that other persons were also involved in the sale and purchase of the contraband as evident from the WhatsApp messages.Rai, on the other hand, argued that the petitioner had been implicated on the basis of the disclosure statement by the co-accused and his own statement. Such a statement could not be relied upon.Justice Thakur asserted that the answer was negative to the court query whether a certificate under Section 65B was available to authenticate the messages. A recent Supreme Court judgment held that a certificate under Section 65B was required when reliance was being placed upon electronic record. As such, the message would be of no evidentiary value as on date. “The investigation into the matter is complete and the challan stands presented and, therefore, this court is of the opinion that no useful purpose would be served in keeping the petitioner behind bars. The instant petition is allowed and the petitioner is directed to be released on regular bail...,” Justice Thakur asserted.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/hc-can-rely-on-whatsapp-messages-during-probe-198680
15-01-2021||Dushyant Singh Pundir||Work on PU-PGI underpass to begin soon||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, January 14The UT Administration will soon start the construction of a pedestrian underpass between Panjab University (PU) and the PGI. The underpass will bring relief to thousands of patients and attendants who have to cross the busy road.Badnore gave nod in Nov 2019A senior official of the UT Engineering Department said tenders for the construction of the underpass between the PU gate and the PGI main gate would be floated soon and the work would start by the next month.Likely to cost nearly Rs7.20 crore, the underpass would be 15-metre wide and 38-metre long. It would have 12 shops, such as Photostat, so that patients or their attendants could get basic facilities at one place.Apart from staircase, the underpass will have lifts and escalators to facilitate elderly and patients on wheelchairs.In November 2019, UT Administrator VP Singh Badnore had given in-principle approval for the construction of the underpass.The traffic police had apprised the Administration of the need for an underpass between the hospital and the university due to a heavy rush of patients and their attendants, as thousands of people from neighbouring states reach the medical institute for treatment every day.As buses drop passengers on the road opposite the main gate of the hospital, they have to cross the road amid heavy traffic, which is a risky affair.Also, people have to wait for a long time to cross the road due to heavy traffic on both sides of the road.After getting approval from the UT Administrator VP Singh Badnore, the Engineering Department had conducted a survey for the construction of the underpass to help hassle-free vehicular and pedestrian movement.The first pedestrian underpass in the city was constructed to connect Sector 17 and 22 at the bus stand and the second was constructed to connect Sector 17 and the Rose Garden.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/work-on-pu-pgi-underpass-to-begin-soon-198681
15-01-2021||Panchkula||Finally, Sukhdarshanpur cowshed opened||The Sukhdarshanpur cowshed, the foundation stone of which was laid in 2018, was finally inaugurated today after missing several deadlines over three years.Dog pound to be ready in 10 daysThe construction of a dog pound, which is coming up near the cowshed, is expected to be completed in 10 days.The project is being touted as a game changer to relieve city residents from the menace of stray cattle, which has proved fatal for many, including 19-year-old Aveek from Sector 12, who became the latest victim.Union Minister Rattan Lal Kataria, Haryana Speaker and local MLA Gian Chand Gupta and Mayor Kulbhushan Goyal were among those present.Kataria said stray cattle and those abandoned by their owners would be shifted to the Sukhdarshanpur cattle pound, which would “end the woes of city residents”. He expressed gratitude to MLA Gupta and Mayor Goyal for making efforts to fulfil the promise to end the menace with the inauguration of the Sukhdarshanpur project.Speaking on the occasion, Gupta said the Khattar government was dedicated to the welfare of cows.“After coming to power in 2014, the government had passed a Bill to save cows and ban their slaughter,” he said.The cowshed, spread over 4.25 acres, has a capacity to accommodate 1,200 cows. It will run by the Madhav Gaushala Charitable Trust. It will have an operational cost of Rs2-3 crore per year. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/finally-sukhdarshanpur-cowshed-opened-198683
15-01-2021||Panchkula||10,000 more birds culled on Day 6||The district administration today culled a total of 10,025 birds and destroyed 816 eggs at Narender Poultry Farm to contain the spread and break the chain of transmission of avian influenza or bird flu. This was the sixth day of its culling drive.So far, 47,720 birds have been culled while 2,156 eggs have been destroyed. Calls made to the local authorities to know the status of confirmatory reports awaited from Bhopal were not answered.Seven crows found dead near Mohali crematoriumMohali: Seven crows were found dead near a crematorium here today.On receiving information, officials from the Wildlife Department took them to the veterinary hospital in Balongi. Their samples were taken and sent to the Regional Disease Diagnostic Laboratory in Jalandhar for testing.Narinder Pandey, the incharge of the crematorium, said the crows were found lying under trees around 10 am. The matter was reported to the police control room. Police personnel rushed to the spot and informed the Animal Husbandry Department. However, no one from the department reached there for four hours.Some animal husbandry officials said they were only collecting samples of chickens and it was the responsibility of the wildlife department. On the other hand, an official of the wildlife department said the investigation would be carried out by the Animal Husbandry Department.Divisional Forest Officer Monica Yadav said she had approached the Deputy Director, Animal Husbandry, who sent the staff to the spot.40 herons found deadDera Bassi: Nearly 40 herons were found dead in the fields of Bhagsi village. Residents of the village said they were hitting upon heron carcasses in the fields for the past three-four days. They said they had informed the Health Department about this three days ago but no official reached the village to check the situation. Village residents said department officials told them a team would come tomorrow and collect samples of the dead birds. —TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/10-000-more-birds-culled-on-day-6-198685
15-01-2021||---||Rift within COA out in open||Chandigarh, January 14The rift within the Chandigarh Olympic Association (COA) came to the fore after representatives of many associations shared a platform to level allegations against COA Secretary Maha Singh.So many associations that are not even affiliated to the Indian Olympic Association (IOA) or with the Centre have been granted COA affiliation. The technical committee was not consulted. - Ravinder Talwar, Chief Executive Officer, COAChander Mukhi Sharma, president, Chandigarh Basketball Association, along with Ravinder Talwar, COA Chief Executive Officer, Rajpal Chauhan, Chairman Technical Committee, COA, and other joint secretaries interacted with the media today.They alleged that besides awarding “bogus” affiliations, the Secretary failed to produce expenditure report, minutes and agenda of previous meetings, which was a clear violation of the House. “So many associations that are not even affiliated to the Indian Olympic Association (IOA) or with the Centre have been granted COA affiliation. The technical committee was not consulted,” said Talwar.“The Chandigarh Olympic Association elections have been announced for January 27 without calling the House meeting. The Secretary has appointed a returning officer for the elections, but only the president has the power to make such an appointment,” said Chander Mukhi Sharma.They said they had raised the issues various times in the House. “In the four-year term, the General House was called only once or twice. We have raised our voices, but to no avail,” added Sharma. He said during the previous elections (2016), the UT Sports Department asked the COA to follow sports code after finding lapses.“The Olympic Association has to follow the National Sports Code. There has been no information on the Electoral College of the House and on expenditure. We have been staying mum for the sake of players,” said Sharma.Meanwhile, Maha Singh refuted the allegations. “These people are lying about every issue. They were part of every meeting whenever an affiliation was awarded to all associations. I am willing to come out in open at any platform to oppose these allegations,” Maha Singh, Secretary, Chandigarh Olympic Association.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/rift-within-coa-out-in-open-198687
15-01-2021||---||Governance reforms: Ball now in university Chancellor’s court?||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, January 14Panjab University (PU) is headed towards another political storm after one of the joint secretaries of the Ministry of Higher Education (MHE) wrote to the Joint Secretary, Vice-President’s Secretariat, suggesting that the university should take some action on Senate elections.Meanwhile, the Secretariat has asked the PU Vice-Chancellor to send a proposal on the same for briefing the Vice-President, who is also the Chancellor of the university.In a letter dated December 29, 2020, the MHE joint secretary has written to Ashok Dewan, Joint Secretary, Vice-President’s office, suggesting further course of action for conducting elections vis-a-vis granting extension to the previous Senate/Syndicate.The letter states: “Kindly refer to your DO letter dated December 11 forwarded therewith letter dated November 9 of the PU Registrar regarding the implementation of the National Education Policy (NEP) 2020 recommendations in the university. In response to the PU Registrar’s letter, the UGC has requested the university to initiate an action for governance reforms in the light of the NEP 2020 as per the Panjab University Act and Regulations.”It further added: “It is stated that the PU is governed as per the provisions of the PU Act, 1947. In view of the above, the matter may kindly be taken up with the PU to decide further course of action for conducting elections vis-a-vis granting extension to the Senate/Syndicate.”Dewan’s letter to PU VCMeanwhile, in another letter, addressed to the PU Vice-Chancellor, Prof Raj Kumar, on December 31, Dewan asked the university to submit a proposal before placing the issue of Senate elections before the Vice-President of India. Sources claim that a plan has already been submitted by the competent authority.However, Vikram Nayyar, Registrar, PU, did not respond to repeated calls to confirm any development.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/governance-reforms-ball-now-in-university-chancellors-court-198688
15-01-2021||Deepankar Sharda||Nod must for taking part in c’ships: DEO to schools||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, January 14The office of the District Education Officer (DEO) has issued a diktat asking schools to seek department’s approval before allowing their students (players) to participate in competitions to be organised by local associations.Sources said the circular was issued after a few associations, including athletics and net ball, approached schools directly for sending teams to play.The DEO remained unavailable for comment on the issue. The sources said the circular would help the department to keep a track of the students amid the pandemic.They said permission from the DEO office also meant that sports teachers and students (players) can claim refreshment and travel charges (as per the rules).“There are a few associations which have directly invited schools to participate in their championships. As per the set trend, the association should approach the DEO office and the department will further pass on the information to schools. If an order is forwarded from the DEO office, schools are bound by rules,” said the sources.“I will inquire into the matter. We are equally concerned about the safety of our students due to Covid and instructions from the Centre,” said Rubinderjit Singh Brar, DPI, Schools.“If the circular is issued for reimbursing refreshment and travel charges, it’s a good initiative. However, in the past, we were never paid any such charges,” said a teacher. “Associations conduct many championships of a single age-group and players need a platform to perform,” said the teacher.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/nod-must-for-taking-part-in-cships-deo-to-schools-198689
15-01-2021||---||K-9 training programme at Bhanu||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, January 14A unique training programme for dog units of the police and central security forces was organised by the Ministry of Home Affairs’ police modernisation division at the Indo-Tibetan Border Police Force’s National Dog Training Centre in Bhanu near here.Tittled ‘Bridging gaps in augmentation of K-9 performance’, the three-day programme was attended by 52 officers from 14 Central Armed Police Forces and state police organisations.The workshop was inaugurated by Inspector General SB Sharma of the ITBP, who laid stress on deploying dogs for border patrolling for an effective border management. The sessions were conducted by Dr PK Chug, a consultant with the MHA, and Deputy Inspector General Sudhakar Natarajan to mainstream K-9 strategies to combat terror with zero error.A revolutionary new ‘Clicker K-9’ training methodology was demonstrated that would reduce the K-9 training for explosive detection dogs from 24 weeks to just 12 weeks and from 36 weeks to just 20 weeks for dual purpose service dogs.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/k-9-training-programme-at-bhanu-198690
15-01-2021||---||Fatehgarh Sahib MC poll likely in Feb-end||Our CorrespondentFatehgarh Sahib, January 14The district administration is fully geared up for the Municipal Council (MC) elections likely to be held in the last week of February.“Voter lists have been prepared by Sub Divisional Magistrates-cum-Electoral Registration Officers. Voting will be held through EVMs,” said Amrit Kaur Gill, District Electoral Officer-cum-Deputy Commissioner, while presiding over a meeting here today.“Additional District Electoral Officer-cum-Additional Deputy Commissioner (Development) will be the nodal officer for these elections to be held for the Municipal Councils of Sirhind-Fatehgarh Sahib, Mandi Gobindgarh and Bassi Pathana and Khamano Nagar Panchayat. Besides, by-election for one ward in Amloh MC will also be held,” she added.“In the Mandi Gobindgarh Municipal Council 60 polling booths have been set up for 29 wards. For the Sirhind-Fatehgarh Sahib MC 46 polling booths have been set up for 23 wards. In Bassi Pathana MC 16 polling booths have been set up for 15 wards. Similarly, for the Khamano Nagar Panchayat 13 polling booths have been set up for 13 wards. The by-election in the Amloh MC will be held for Ward No. 12” she added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/fatehgarh-sahib-mc-poll-likely-in-feb-end-198691
15-01-2021||Chandigarh||PU’s last chance to file reply: HC||The High Court has granted the PU and other respondents “last and final opportunity” in the interest of justice to file a reply in the matter subject to a payment of Rs 50,000 costs. “It shall be equally borne by the respondents and will be a pre-condition,” Justice Fateh Deep Singh added .The Bench was hearing a petition filed by Prof Keshav Malhotra and other petitioners through senior counsel RS Cheema and R Kartikiya. The Bench observed a request for adjournment was again made by the respondents to enable them to file a reply. The petition was filed alleging that the proposed committee slated to replace the Senate would comprise representatives of the ruling political party. The petitioners, seven former senators, were demanding Senate elections. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/pus-last-chance-to-file-reply-hc-198692
15-01-2021||---||St Kabir to  hold draw of lots today||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, January 14St Kabir Public School, Sector 26, will hold a draw of lots for admission to its entry-level class (nursery) for the 2021-2022 academic session on the school premises tomorrow at 3.15 pm.To follow Covid-19 precautions, the draw of lots will take place in the school playground and just one parent with the original registration slip will be allowed to enter the premises after temperature check and hand sanitisation. “Wearing a mask and Arogya Setu App will be compulsory. Physical distancing norms should be observed strictly,” said Gurpreet S Bakshi, Administrator, St Kabir School.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/st-kabir-to-hold-draw-of-lots-today-198693
15-01-2021||Naina Mishra||Covid-19 vaccine boosts health workers’ morale||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, January 14The upcoming week will be the most exciting and hopeful as thousands of healthcare workers will line up to get vaccinated against Covid-19 in the city. No fever or side effects: Covishield volunteerDr Honey Sawhney (57) from GMSH-16, who volunteered for the Covishield at the PGIMER, received his first dose in November and the second dose in the first week of December last year. Dr Honey Sawhney said, “I was absolutely fine after inoculation and got back to routine work after 30 minutes. I did not have fever or any side effects after getting vaccinated. There is no fear because this vaccine is not causing disease, but will activate your body’s immune response to recognise the virus when targeted by it.” Dr Sawhney is also hypertensive. “I take all precautions even after getting vaccinated,” Dr Sawhney added.Dr Maneesh Chugh from Government Multi-Specialty Hospital, Sector 16, said, “With Covid-19 vaccine there is now a chance of going home self-assured and without the fear of infecting family members.”“One thing is quite sure that this is the safest vaccine. Just like other vaccines have minor side effects like pain at the injection site, fever or redness, this Covid vaccine has also been designed in the same way. The limited data available on this vaccine also suggests that side effects go within 24 hours,” Dr Chug added while clearing the confusion around vaccine.“The amount of protection one gets is greater in face of minor side effects. Even if the antibodies wane after six months, one can go for a booster dose. But at present, we need protection against this disease,” said Dr Chug.Dr Kapish Gupta from the Orthopaedic Department of the GMSH-16, who got infected with Covid-19 in early November, is among the priority group to be vaccinated.“Any vaccine will develop side effects and being a doctor, we are well aware of this fact. Our friends in the United States have also been vaccinated and are doing well. This vaccine is an inactivated virus that will do no harm to us and only offer protection,” said Dr Gupta.“This vaccine is going to instil confidence in dealing with patients, which was lost at the onset of the Covid-19 pandemic,” Dr Gupta added.Not only healthcare workers, but the hospital staff, including security guards, have also lined up for the Covid-19 vaccination. Sanjeev Bharti (42), a security guard the GMCH-16, said, “We are on round-the-clock duty at the hospital. Chances of exposure to the Covid-19 infection are quite high. I am willing to get vaccinated for all necessary protection.”Dr VK Nagpal, Medical Superintendent, GMSH-16, said, “We have been receiving requests from healthcare workers to get vaccinated on the first day. Everybody wants to be among the first 100 to be vaccinated. It is like a festival here.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/covid-19-vaccine-boosts-health-workers-morale-198694
15-01-2021||Gaurav Kanthwal||11,284 to get dose in first phase in Mohali district||Tribune News ServiceMohali, January 14As many as 11,284 beneficiaries have been identified for the first phase of the Covid-19 vaccination drive beginning from January 16.Of the total beneficiaries, 2,809 are government officials, while 8,475 are from the private sector. The district administration has identified 31 session sites - eight government and 23 private - in the district. The vaccination drive will be completed in 113 sessions.Mohali ADC Aashika Jain said: “The district administration and the Health Department have worked hard to make this drive a success. All beneficiaries were identified around two months ago.”As many as 153 doctors, 506 ASHA workers, and 505 health workers will also be administered Covid vaccine. The total number of vaccinators employed in the task is 207.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/11-284-to-get-dose-in-first-phase-in-mohali-district-198695
15-01-2021||Chandigarh||2 sites at GMCH-32 for vaccination drive||The Government Medical College Hospital, Sector 32, (GMCH-32) has geared up for the vaccination drive, which will begin on January 16.The hospital has earmarked two sites for Covid-19 vaccination drive where 200 persons can be vaccinated each day.According to a press release, “An observation area has been set up at each of the two sites. Each beneficiary will be observed for 30 minutes after vaccination for any side effects.”On the efficacy and safety of the vaccine, a senior doctor said he would want to receive the vaccine on the first day itself.Dr Jasbinder Kaur, Director Principal, GMCH-32, said, “A committee of senior level doctors headed by Prof Sanjay D’Cruz has been constituted to coordinate response to any reported adverse events. As many beneficiaries will receive vaccine naturally occurring health events will surface. Most of these events will not be related to the vaccine and are likely to be symptoms of commonly occurring morbidities.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/2-sites-at-gmch-32-for-vaccination-drive-198696
15-01-2021||Chandigarh||Beopar Mandal calls on UT Adviser||The Chandigarh Beopar Mandal (CBM) has opposed the manifold increase of conversion coverage charges of SCFs to SCOs from Sectors 7 to 30 and demands its rollback.A delegation of senior functionaries of the CBM and its building bylaws committee comprising of Charanjiv Singh, Anil Vohra, Diwakar Sahoonja, Vinod Joshi and Rajan Mahajan today called on UT Adviser Manoj Kumar Parida to express concern and resentment against the implementation of unjustified enhancement of charges for availing of the additional already permitted coverage area and conversion of SCFs to SCOs in commercial properties.Vinod Joshi, chairman of the committee, pointed out that the average charges from Rs5 lakh had increased to Rs50 to Rs60 lakh by linking such coverage of old commercial buildings from Sector 7 to Sector 31 to collector rates, which was unjustified.Charanjiv Singh, president, CBM, demanded to delink it from collector rates and fix flat, nominal and justified rates for additional coverage. Otherwise, it would amount to second time purchase of own property. After giving a sympathetic hearing to the delegation, the Adviser assured to form a committee to look into the matter. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/beopar-mandal-calls-on-ut-adviser-198697
15-01-2021||---||Golf tournament tomorrow||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, January 14The first Linunnrata Invitational Golf Tournament will be played at the picturesque Forest Hill Resort on January 16. It will be a gunshot tournament with 76 golfers teeing off at the same time.The tournament aims at bringing like-minded people together for a day of competition and fun and increase awareness of the emerging high impact digitally powered opportunities for entrepreneurs, organisations and communities.The tournament will be played on the stableford format. The highlight of the tournament will be regular nearest-to-the-pin and longest drive. There will be a winner in each of the four-ball. There will be a competition between the ladies and there will be a lady winner from the lot as well.The trophy was revealed by Rana Gurmit Singh Sodhi, Minister for Sports and Youth Affairs, Government of Punjab, at the Chandigarh Golf Association (range) today.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/golf-tournament-tomorrow-198698
15-01-2021||---||Eight-wicket win for Dera Bassi cricket academy||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, January 14IVCA Cricket Academy, Dera Bassi, defeated Chandigarh Cricket Academy by eight wickets in the First Geeta Devi Memorial U-17 Cricket Tournament at TDL Cricket Stadium, Panchkula.Batting first, the Dera Bassi outfit was bundled out for 74 runs in 21.2 overs. Divyansh (16) was the main scorer for the side. Paras and Tanmay claimed three wickets each, while Youvraj Singh took two wickets for the bowling side.In reply, Chandigarh Cricket Academy posted 76/2 in 16.4 overs with the help of Tanmay Latka (21) and Kartik Jindal (16). Krishnanshu Sharma and Raghav Verma claimed one wicket each for the bowling side.In the second match of the day, DAV Cricket Academy, Chandigarh, registered a 20-run win over Cricket Dreams Academy, Dhakoli.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/eight-wicket-win-for-dera-bassi-cricket-academy-198699
15-01-2021||Dushyant Singh Pundir||Chandigarh fast-tracks process for Power Dept privatisation||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, January 14After the Supreme Court stayed the order of the Punjab and Haryana High Court, the UT Administration has fast-tracked the process of privatisation of the Electricity Department. The UT Administration today resumed the sale of tender for the privatisation of the department.The Administration has fixed February 8 as the last date to submit the tender and the bids could be opened the same day. The firm for the privatisation of the department could be selected the same day, said a senior official.The UT Engineering Department had invited bids for the privatisation of the department on November 9. As many as 17 intended bidders, including Tata Power Company Limited, GMR Generation Asset Limited and Adani Transmission Limited, were issued request for proposal (RFP) to take part in the privatisation process of the department.The Centre had decided to privatise the electricity distribution in the UT to provide better service to consumers and the process was to be completed by January 31.On January 12, the Supreme Court had stayed the order of the Punjab and Haryana High Court, wherein the tendering process regarding the privatisation of the Electricity Department of the UT Engineering Department was stayed.On a petition filed by the UT Powermen Union, a Division Bench of the High Court had on December 1, 2020, stayed the tendering process regarding the privatisation of the UT Electricity Department.The petitioner had contended that they were aggrieved by the decision to privatise the electricity wing by selling 100 per cent stake of the government in the absence of any provision under Section 131 of the Electricity Act, 2003.The Bench was also told that the process for the privatisation of the wing could not be initiated at all, especially when it was running in profits. The sale of 100 per cent stake was unjust and illegal as the wing was revenue surplus for the past three years. It was economically efficient, having transmission and distribution losses less than the target of 15 per cent fixed by the Ministry of Power. It was also contended that the transfer scheme without calling for objections from all stakeholders could not be legally sustained and acted upon.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-fast-tracks-process-for-power-dept-privatisation-198700
15-01-2021||---||13 bird samples test -ve for avian influenza in city||Chandigarh, January 14Thirteen samples of dead birds have tested negative for the avian influenza.The UT Forest and Wildlife Department had on January 11 sent 13 samples, including 12 of crow and one of pigeon, to the Regional Disease Diagnostic Laboratory, Jalandhar, to test for avian influenza.Debendra Dalai, Chief Conservator of Forests, UT, said all 13 samples were found negative for the avian influenza.Earlier, eight samples sent to the laboratory had already tested negative for the avian influenza, he added.However, 14 more birds, including 10 crows, one pigeon, one wood pecker, one koyal and one jungle babbler, were found dead in different parts of the city today.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/13-bird-samples-test-ve-for-avian-influenza-in-city-198701
15-01-2021||---||Online leave module for Chandigarh Secretariat staff launched||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, January 14UT Adviser Manoj Parida today launched online leave module under the e-Human Resource Management System. This new module will enable the UT Secretariat employees to avail leaves online.Under the features of the new system, employees would be able to view leave balance, apply online, cancel applied leave before and after approval and curtail or extend the leaves. The reporting as well as the approving authority would also make recommendations online. The system would make the process more transparent and accessible from anywhere.The pilot launch of this system for UT Secretariat employees will be further extended to other departments in a phased manner. The Department of Information Technology, the Chandigarh Administration and the National Informatics Centre (NIC), Chandigarh, have jointly developed this portal.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/online-leave-module-for-chandigarh-secretariat-staff-launched-198702
15-01-2021||---||Punjabi University to go paperless||Tribune News ServicePatiala, January 14Punjabi University will go paperless with regard to composition, noting and transfer of files soon. The university has decided to shift to the Punjab Government’s file and records management system by January 18.In an office order, the university Registrar, Dr Devinder Pal Singh Sidhu, directed all departments to send all files to his office through e-office. “The attachment files – annexures – will be attached and sent online,” he said.The university has already identified users, including heads of departments, deputy registrars, senior assistants, superintendents, clerks and others for the system and created their IDs on the platform. “The university is providing training for on e-office to 650 employees,” said officials.“With the implementation of e-office, transfer of files from teaching and non-teaching departments will be streamlined. The implementation of new platform will enhance transparency as files can be tracked all the time. It will also increase accountability of officials responsible for the work concerned,” officials added.A number of meetings were convened by the university before the implementation of the e-office. “The e-office is an online platform. The university’s internet service and its bandwidth will play an important role in its usage,” said officials.Integrated system pending since October 2019The university’s Integrated Human Resource Management System (IHRMS) started in 2019 has been pending for over one-and-a-half year. The system was supposed to bring GPF, salary and other employee related information online. Its purpose was to save time in preparation and procurement of the information. “It is still at the data collection stage,” said officials.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/punjabi-university-to-go-paperless-198703
15-01-2021||Chandigarh||Homage paid to martyrs at war memorial||Western Command observed the fifth Tri-Services Veterans’ Day at the Chandimandir Military Station today by paying homage to the soldiers who made supreme sacrifice in the line of duty.The Veterans’ Day commemorates the beginning of a new era in 1948 when General (later Field Marshal) KM Cariappa took over as the first Indian Commander-in-Chief of Independent India from the last British Commander-in-Chief, General Francis Roy Butcher.To commemorate the day, veterans paid tributes at the Veer Smriti war memorial in Chandimandir. Lieutenant General Yogendra Dimri, Chief of Staff, Western Command, laid a wreath at the memorial on behalf of all ranks of the Western Army.As many as 125 veterans from all three services were present on the occasion. On this day, the Army reaffirmed its commitment towards the veterans and reiterated firm resolve to ensure safety, security and sanctity of the nation and its borders. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/homage-paid-to-martyrs-at-war-memorial-198704
15-01-2021||---||Be careful, CBI inspector warned||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, January 14Dr Sushil Kumar Garg, Special Judge, CBI Court, has issued a warning to the CBI inspector posted in Delhi after he filed an explanation before the court today.The court had issued a show-cause notice to him on January 12 after he failed to file a reply in the bail applications moved by the accused in the multi-crore bank scam.The court observed that in view of the facts mentioned in the explanation, the inspector was warned to be careful in future. Meanwhile, the CBI Court also allowed the bail applications of the six accused in the Indian Overseas Bank fraud case. The CBI had registered a case in the fraud in 2016 in Delhi. It had also filed a chargesheet in the case.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/be-careful-cbi-inspector-warned-198705
15-01-2021||Chandigarh||100-yr-old war veteran felicitated||Col Prithipal Singh (retd), the veteran who recently celebrated his 100th birthday and has the unique distinction of serving in all three services, was presented with a silver salver by Maj Gen GS Kahlon on behalf of Chief of Defence Staff, Gen Bipin Rawat, on the occasion of Veterans’ Day here today.Gen Rawat acknowledged his rich and varied experience, including participation in active operations, which are a source of inspiration for the younger generation.He had served during the Second World War with the Navy and after Independence, with the Army during the 1965 Indo-Pak War. In the last stage of his career, he was posted in the North-East with the Assam Rifles, paramilitary organisation. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/100-yr-old-war-veteran-felicitated-198706
15-01-2021||Dera Bassi||Woman robbed at gunpoint||Two deaths, 43 cases in Mohalimohali: Two persons died of Covid-19, while 43 new cases were reported from the district on Thursday. As many as 51 more patients recovered from the virus. Among the new cases, 35 were reported from Mohali (urban), four from Dhakoli, two from Kharar and one each from Gharuan and Lalru. The district has so far witnessed 18,899 cases and 353 deaths. — TNSCity reports 23 cases, 1 deathchandigarh: The city reported 23 fresh coronavirus cases on Thursday, taking the UT tally to 20,438. The city also witnessed a Covid death. A 67-year-old man from Sector 35, a case of SARI and hypertension, died at the GMCH, Sector 32. A total of 41 more patients have recovered. So far, 19,835 patients have defeated the virus. — TNS17 new cases in PanchkulaPanchkula: The district on Thursday reported 17 fresh coronavirus cases, taking the tally to 10,281. The Covid toll remained at 145. While 9,936 patients have recovered from the disease so far, 200 cases are still active. The recovery rate of the district stands at 96.64 per cent. — tnsDBU to give Rs17-cr scholarshipsChandigarh: Desh Bhagat University (DBU) announced scholarships worth Rs17 crore for deserving students under the Mata Jarnail Kaur scholarship scheme. Dr Zora Singh, Chancellor, said: “Last year, scholarships worth Rs11 crore were offered to the students under the scheme and this year, the funds have been increased to Rs17 crore,” said Dr Zora Singh. Sandeep Singh, president, and Shivangi Verma, Deputy Manager Admissions, were present. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/woman-robbed-at-gunpoint-198707
15-01-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh colder than Shimla, Manali||The city turned colder than Shimla as the maximum temperature dropped to 12.2°C, four degrees less than the Queen of Hills. However, the minimum temperature in both Chandigarh and Shimla remained at 5.7°C.The City Beautiful witnessed severe cold conditions today, making it chiller than Manali, which recorded a maximum temperature of 14.8°C. However, residents are unlikely to get relief from the foggy weather conditions for one more day.Keylong, Kalpa coldest in HimachalAccording to the Chandigarh Met office, the sky is expected to remain generally cloudy tomorrow and shallow fog will continue. However, with moderate fog, the city could witness a clear sky on Friday and Saturday.The maximum and minimum temperatures in the city are likely to see an increase in the coming days, which could provide the much-needed relief to residents reeling under severe cold weather conditions for the past many days. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-colder-than-shimla-manali-198041
