17-01-2021||Chandigarh||Prof Surjit Hans’ last literary work released||On the first death anniversary of scholar Prof Surjit Hans, his last creative work, a collection of poetry, ‘Mrit da Supna’ (Dream of the Dead) was released. While remembering Prof Hans, Hindi writer Madhav Kaushik said that true assessment of his contribution to Punjabi literature is yet to be made.“A writer has an amazing advantage. He can give verdict on every act of injustice instantly.”Renowned political scientist Prof Harish Puri, who was Hans’ colleague at GNDU, said that he was known for summing up even complex developments in one or two words. Jasvir Kaur, from Punjabi Language Development Department of Punjabi University, Patiala, said that he always inspired young people to read world literature.Swarajbir, Editor, Punjabi Tribune, fondly recalled how he motivated him from shifting to playwriting from poetry.“He is perhaps the only person who wrote even his autobiography in jokes.” He says that in his last book he imagines his death. His books and writings needs to be read again and again. Punjabi writer and Hans’ close friend Gulzar Singh Sandhu said he was just like an encyclopaedia.“I always consulted him instead of consulting an encyclopaedia.”Dr Areet Kaur, Director, National Health Mission, said his works are eternal. “His generation was hard working.”  One of his former students, Amarjit Kaur, head of history at GNDU, recalled that he wouldn’t keep a dictionary on his table and would always walk to the library even to consult even a single word. Veteran journalist Nirupama Dutt said that Prof Hans has left great memories behind.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/prof-surjit-hans-last-literary-work-released-199834
17-01-2021||Chandigarh||Cold weather conditions prevail at many places in Haryana, Punjab||Cold weather conditions continued to persist at many places in Haryana and Punjab on Sunday, with temperatures hovering below the normal limits.According to Meteorological Department officials, Narnaul in Haryana reeled under intense cold, recording a low of 2.5 degrees Celsius, three notches below normal limits.Hisar, too, experienced a cold night at 3.4 degrees Celsius, down four notches, while Sirsa, Bhiwani and Rohtak registered below normal minimums at 4 degrees Celsius, 4.7 degrees, and 5.6 degrees respectively.In Punjab, Bathinda recorded below normal minimum at 3.4 degrees, while Faridkot and Gurdaspur, too, recorded below normal lows at 5.5 degrees and 7 degrees Celsius respectively.Amritsar, Ludhiana, Patiala, Pathankot and Adampur recorded respective minimum temperatures of 7.3 degrees, 7.6 degrees, 7.4 degrees, 8.6 degrees and 7.5 degrees.Chandigarh, the common capital of the two states, recorded a low of 8.3 degrees Celsius.During the past few days, maximum temperatures, too, have been hovering 6-10 notches below normal at most places in the two states and Chandigarh.Meanwhile, the Met officials said that fog reduced visibility early in the morning at most places in the two states.  — PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/cold-weather-conditions-prevail-at-many-places-in-haryana-punjab-199740
17-01-2021||New Delhi||‘Sun Dilliye Ni Sun Dilliye’, sung by Mohali sisters on farmers’ agitation, gets thousands hits online||Even as "Sun Dilliye Ni Sun Dilliye", a song written, composed and sung by the two young sisters on the ongoing farmers' agitation continues to grab thousands of hits on social media from people across the world, the duo maintains that while all the praise has been extremely encouraging, what matters most is that people across barriers have been able to relate to it."We never thought that the song (https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=0kEkwK5zS5A) would become so popular. The feedback from everyone has been very kind. However, what is most heartening is the fact that even those involved in the agitation—from leaders to protesters have liked it immensely," says Simrita.While both Simrita and Ramneek have post-graduate degrees in Hindustani classical music, the duo admits that they are not essentially lyricists. "But these circumstances were different. We were deeply troubled by the fact that thousands of farmers were out in the open at a time when we were sitting comfortably in our quilts," says Ramneek.The duo, residents of Mohali, whose parents come from an agricultural background insist that they (parents) have been very quite encouraging. "They have been extremely supportive and happy that we have been singing in support of the protests. In fact, ever since childhood, they have pushed us to find our place in our chosen field," Simrita adds.They feel that the most striking aspect of the movement for them has been the fact that Punjabi mothers have been encouraging their children to go out in this cold and join the protests. "And that says so much -- about their spirit and heart," feels Ramneek. Feeling that social media has been instrumental in making youngsters' join the agitation, Simrita adds that considering its deep penetration among youngsters, it has been successful in presenting multiple facets of the agitation. "It has given so many new perspectives unlike the mainstream media which is struck on a single narrative. Most people of our generation are heavy social media users. It has definitely succeeded in bringing about a very different level of awareness and engagement," stresses Simrita For them, the agitation has 'grown' in different ways in a short while."While during the initial days, we mostly saw the elderly protesting, very soon, a large number of youngsters joined the protests. Interestingly, one sees a sizable number of women protesters," says Ramneek.Talking about the perfect coordination between them, Simrita smiles that it is not limited only to music. She loves to cook, and "I am a foodie," she says. — IANS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/sun-dilliye-ni-sun-dilliye-sung-by-mohali-sisters-on-farmers-agitation-gets-thousands-hits-online-199734
17-01-2021||---||Ayush Raikhy bags twin gold in athletics||Chandigarh, January 16Ayush Raikhy won two gold medals in the ongoing State Athletics Meet at the Sector 7 Sports Complex here today.Ayush, a student of GGDSD College, Sector 32, won gold medal in 200m and 100m events.In 200m event, Parkash claimed second position and Umesh finished third. In 300m girls’ U-16 category, Shirren, Jashandeep Kaur and Vanshika claimed first three positions, respectively.In 200m girls’ U-20 category, Rajmeet Kaur, Japneet Kaur and Komal won the first three positions, respectively.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/ayush-raikhy-bags-twin-gold-in-athletics-199510
17-01-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh Football Academy log victory||Chandigarh Football Academy boys defeated Youth United 8-0 in the opening match of India Khelo Football (IKF) organised in association with the Chandigarh Football Association (CFA) at the Sector 42 Sports Complex.Doon Academy defeated Neerja FC 2-0, John’s Club registered a 10-5 win over All Stars and Association FC defeated 80-FC 2-0. In other matches, Indian Cheetas defeated Doon FC (II) 2-0 and Awsome FC beat Dikshant FC (B) 5-0. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-football-academy-log-victory-199482
17-01-2021||Chandigarh||Lecture on leadership in the times of crisis||In continuation of the centenary series at Punjab Engineering College (PEC), 10th lecture was delivered to mark the National Army Day today.Lt General Deependra Singh Hooda spoke about “Leadership in the times of crisis: Lessons from Army”. He was able to convey a meaningful and patriotic-awakening moral to the audience during the lecture.The event was broadcast live on Youtube for viewers across the globe. Hundreds of students, alumni, and professionals from different streams joined the digital platform to view the event.Dr Dheeraj Sanghi, Director, PEC, and Dr Divya Bansal, Dean (Alumni), greeted Hooda. “PEC promises to bring more personalities to share their experiences as a part of its centenary lecture series, commenced on November 11, as a part of the celebrations for the institution entering its 100th year since foundation in 1921,” said Sanghi. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/lecture-on-leadership-in-the-times-of-crisis-199485
17-01-2021||Sanjay Bumbroo||SAD expels former Mayor from party||Tribune News ServiceMohali, January 16The Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) today expelled Kulwant Singh, former Mohali Mayor, from the party for breaching its discipline.SAD president and former Deputy Chief Minister Sukhbir Singh Badal today expelled Kulwant Singh from the party for opposing party candidates fielded from 28 wards for the Mohali Municipal Corporation elections.Second timeSenior party leader Dr Daljit Singh Cheema said on the basis of the report received from District Observer Prof Prem Singh Chandumajra, action had been taken against Kulwant Singh for breaching the party’s discipline. He said party discipline would not be allowed to be breached at any cost.This is the second time in five years that Kulwant Singh has been expelled from the party. Earlier, he was expelled from the party in 2015.Kulwant Singh had unsuccessfully contested the Lok Sabha elections from Fatehgarh Sahib on the SAD ticket. After this, he parted ways with the party after the SAD fielded Balwant Singh Ramoowalia for the Mayor’s post. Kulwant Singh had won the MC elections as an Independent candidate and became the Mayor in 2015. However, he again joined the SAD.On being ignored by the SAD while finalising candidates for the forthcoming Mohali MC elections, Kulwant Singh, a SAD loyalist, has turned rebel and decided to contest the elections independently. Kulwant, who owns a real estate business, is planning to field his own team of Independents candidates.Kulwant Singh, while talking to Chandigarh Tribune, said action taken by the SAD supremo was on expected lines. He was ready to contest the elections as an Independent candidate. He would hold a meeting with his supporters on Monday and announce the names of candidates.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/sad-expels-former-mayor-from-party-199487
17-01-2021||---||Remove encroachments from roads, Zirakpur civic body told||Zirakpur, January 16The Punjab CM’s office has directed officials of the Municipal Council (MC) to remove encroachments on roads in localities of Zirakpur, which are inconveniencing public.VIP Road, Dhakoli market, Baltana furniture market and Kalgidhar market are some of the worst affected areas. The enforcement wing of the Zirakpur MC had carried out anti-encroachments drives in Baltana furniture market in the recent past, but violators reoccupied roadside areas.“A 60-foot road has been reduced to nearly 20-foot due to encroachments here. As a result, there are frequent traffic jams,” said SC Sharma, a Baltana resident.MC officials assured that the enforcement wing would remove encroachments in the next fortnight and send a report to the higher-ups.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/remove-encroachments-from-roads-zirakpur-civic-body-told-199483
17-01-2021||---||Petroleum conservation drive kicks off||Chandigarh, January 16In a bid to sensitise residents about acute need for petroleum conservation, a month-long campaign, Saksham-2021 (Sanrakshan Kshamta Mahotsav), began at Mahatma Gandhi State Institute of Public Administration, Sector 26, here today.K Siva Prasad, Principal Secretary, Transport, Punjab, inaugurated Saksham-2021 through web meeting. The Ministry of Petroleum and Natural Gas through the Petroleum Conservation Research Association (PCRA) and oil PSUs has been conducting fuel conservation drive all over country.Sujoy Choudhury, state-level coordinator (Oil industry), Punjab, and Executive Director, Indian Oil Corporation Ltd, Chandigarh, said, “In 1991, a campaign was started to conserve natural resources. Since then many campaigns and activities have been launched. ‘Saksham 2021’campaign will sensitise residents through conferences, skits, painting competitions and other activities towards the importance of preserving natural resources for a better environment.” He exhorted students to take part in the campaign in large numbers.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/petroleum-conservation-drive-kicks-off-199486
17-01-2021||---||Two vehicle thieves land in police net||Kharar, January 16The Sadar Kharar police arrested two vehicle thieves from the Industrial Area, Phase 1, Mohali, today. The police also recovered two motorcycles, 13 engines, 10 chassis and spare parts of two-wheelers and autos from their possession.The suspects have been identified as Amardeep Singh, a resident of Daun village, and mechanic-cum-scrap dealer Zameer Ali, a resident of Industrial Area, Phase 6.A case under Sections 379 and 411 of the IPC has been registered against the duo at the Sadar Kharar police station. The duo had been sent to two-day police remand.The police said Amardeep was arrested with a stolen bike near Phase 1. One more motorcycle was recovered from his possession. His questioning led to the arrest of Zameer Ali, a mechanic-cum-scrap dealer, who used to buy stolen vehicles for Rs2,500 and sell spare parts by dismantling the vehicles. Most of the vehicles stolen from the tricity ended up at Ali’s shop through various operatives.Two cases of theft are already registered against Amardeep at various police stations of the tricity.Ajitpal Singh, SHO of the Kharar Sadar police station, said: “Investigation is on in the matter. More names are likely to crop up during investigation.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/two-vehicle-thieves-land-in-police-net-199503
17-01-2021||Panchkula||40-year-old sanitation worker first in Panchkula district, Haryana to get vaccine dose||A 40-year-old sanitation worker was given the first Covid-19 vaccine at the Civil Dispensary in Sector 4 here as Panchkula began its mass vaccination drive at three centres today. She was the first beneficiary from the district as well as the state to get the jab.The worker identified as, Saroj Bala, who has been working at the same dispensary for the past 20 years, received a Covishield jab.While interacting with mediapersons Saroj said she was feeling fine after getting vaccinated. She was subsequently kept at the observation room for 30 minutes to watch for any side-effects of the vaccine.Though her 17-year-old daughter had shown concern about the vaccine last evening, confident Saroj went ahead and got inoculated.“Everyone should get vaccinated,” said Saroj, who lives in Haripur village.“I had never faced the camera before. So, it was a bit challenging to express my feelings,” Saroj added.Saroj was inoculated in presence of state health officials, Deputy Commissioner Mukesh Kumar Ahuja, DCP Mohit Kumar Handa and CMO Dr Jasjeet Kaur.The sanitation worker has been on active Covid duty since March last year.Similarly, Dr Achint Narang was first to get vaccinated at Alchemist Hospital and Babita at the CHC, Raipur Rani. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/40-year-old-sanitation-worker-first-in-panchkula-district-haryana-to-get-vaccine-dose-199500
17-01-2021||---||40 get shots in Mohali district||Mohali, January 16As many as 40 healthcare workers (HCWs) were given Covid vaccine at the Civil Hospital in Phase 6, Mohali, and Community Health Centre in Banur on the first day of the vaccination programme launched across the country.Dr Adarsh Pal Kaur, Civil Surgeon OfficialspeakThere was some apprehension over side effects of the vaccine among health workers at the initial stage. The healthcare workers who were administered the vaccine on Saturday included doctors, nurses and office staff of the government hospitals in the district. As many as 32 health workers were vaccinated at the Civil Hospital while eight were given shots at the Community Health Centre.Civil Surgeon Dr Adarsh Pal Kaur said there was some apprehension over side effects of the vaccine among health workers at the initial stage. The healthcare workers who were administered the vaccine today included doctors, nurses and office staff of the government hospitals in the district. She said 32 health workers were vaccinated at the Civil Hospital, while eight were given jabs at the Community Health Centre.Dr Adarsh Pal Kaur said the vaccine would now be administered on Monday. There were 11,284 healthcare workers in the district. Senior citizens, Army, defence and police personnel would be administered vaccine in the second phase of the programme. After that, common citizens would be involved in the vaccination programme.The health authorities have set up eight Covid-19 vaccination centres in the district, including Kharar, Dera Bassi and Mohali. Three centres each have been set up in Dera Bassi and Kharar areas, while two centres have been set up in Mohali and Banur. Six persons will be vaccinated per hour as it takes 10 minutes to vaccinate a person. Each beneficiary has to be kept under observation for half an hour to monitor adverse event following immunisation (AEFI), if any.These vaccine administration sites or session sites have three well-ventilated dedicated rooms/areas - waiting room for beneficiary line-up, vaccination room where vaccine will be given and the observation room for monitoring of adverse event following immunisation.Patients visiting emergency a harried lotPatients visiting the emergency ward at the Civil Hospital were a harried lot as tight security arrangements were made at the hospital in view of Punjab Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh’s visit. Police personnel allowed patients in small groups for treatment. Sooraj, who was operated upon recently, came to the hospital for dressing. The patient said he had to wait for almost two hours before being allowed to enter the emergency ward.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/40-get-shots-in-mohali-district-199478
17-01-2021||Amit Bathla||266 inoculated in Panchkula||Tribune News ServicePanchkula, January 16As many as 266 healthcare workers were administered Covid-19 vaccine on Day 1 of the inoculation drive, here today.Senior Health Department officials, both state and district level, including Director General (Health) Dr SB Kamboj, Additional Director General (Health) Dr Veena Singh, State Immunisation Officer, NHM Dr Virender Ahlawat and district Covid nodal officers Dr Rajiv Narwal, Dr Mankeerat Kaur, Dr Meenu Sasan also took the vaccine shot in order to dispel doubts in the minds of people and instil confidence about the efficacy of the vaccine.The district witnessed the inoculation drive at three centres namely Alchemist Hospital, Civil Dispensary Sector 4, and Community Health Centre (CHC), Raipur Rani, with nearly 300 health workers being on the recipients’ list for the first day.Civil Surgeon Dr Jasjeet Kaur said: “It is a matter of great satisfaction. We have reached the decisive stage in war against the Covid-19. Enthusiasm ran high among beneficiaries on Day 1 of the vaccination drive. All in all, it was good the way we expected it to be. Hopefully, we will cover all healthcare workers soon”.In the first phase, the Panchkula Heath Department has identified around 9,000 healthcare and frontline workers, including Army personnel from Chandimandir Cantonment.On limited stock of the vaccine, Dr Kaur said they would give a priority to healthcare workers deployed at the Covid hospitals in view of their vulnerability to the virus.So far, Panchkula has received 9,000 doses, which would meet only 50 per cent requirement. When asked about the second consignment of the vaccine, Dr Kaur said they were hoping to receive it soon.Director General (Health) Dr SB Kamboj, who got a jab at the Civil Dispensary in Sector 4, said he was completely fine after being vaccinated.“I had no issue during and after the vaccination. I urge everyone to get vaccinated without any fear. People should continue Covid-19 appropriate behaviour until the body develops immunity against the virus, which takes around six weeks,” he said.Admn fails to achieve perfect scoreThe local health administration failed to achieve the perfect score with 95 per cent coverage.As per local health officials, they were expecting 282 health officials on Day 1 of the drive. While CHC, Raipur Rani, and Alchemist Hospital saw 100 beneficiaries each, the Sector 4 Civil Dispensary, which hogged the limelight with the presence of senior officials, witnessed only 66 persons. There was absenteeism at this centre only. A few said they were out of station while others switched off their mobile phones.A technician at a nursing home, who didn’t wish to be named, said: “I was out of station. So, I couldn’t get the jab. Otherwise, I have no apprehensions over the vaccine. I am ready to take it next time.”Dr Kaur said: “Yes, there are fears, doubts and apprehensions in minds of several healthcare workers. The enthusiastic response on the first day of the programme will put a rest to all unscientific fears and build confidence among them.”Social distancing goes for a tossSocial distancing norms went for a toss at the observation room at the Sector 4 Civil Dispensary, where the beneficiaries were kept for 30 minutes after vaccination. The observation room was full of photojournalists desperate to capture the “unprecedented moment”.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/266-inoculated-in-panchkula-199479
17-01-2021||Chandigarh||Two injured in mishaps in Chandigarh||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/two-injured-in-mishaps-in-chandigarh-199506
17-01-2021||Chandigarh||Covid-19: Chandigarh sees 39 cases||29 test +ve in MohaliMohali: The district on Saturday reported 29 new cases of Covid, taking the tally to 18,965. While no fresh fatality took place, 93 patients recovered from the virus. Among the fresh cases, 23 cases came from Mohali (urban) and one each from Gharuan, Kharar and Lalru and three cases from Dhakoli. So far, 17,795 patients have been cured of the disease. There are 817 active cases with 353 deaths in the district. TNS22 infected in PanchkulaPanchkula: The district on Saturday reported 22 new cases of coronavirus, taking the overall tally to 10,326. With no fresh fatality, the toll remained 145. While 9,987 patients have recovered from the infectious disease so far, 194 cases are still active. The district’s recovery rate stands at 96.71 per cent. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/covid-19-chandigarh-sees-39-cases-199508
17-01-2021||Sandeep Rana||Civic body allocates Rs 80 lakh each to wards||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, January 16Though the local MC has allocated Rs80 lakh each to councillors for the development of their wards this year, a number of works on the previous lists given to the civic body by the elected representatives are lying pending.Unutilised fundsIt will be a challenge for the corporation to complete these works as the funds will lapse at the end of this year. The next MC elections will be held in November-December this year. The civic body has to complete these works before the model code of conduct comes into force.About two months ago, the MC had asked all councillors to give their lists of works worth up to Rs40 lakh.Congress councillor Satish Kainth said: “I had given my lists of works in the past two mayors, but those were not carried out. Even the funds were not fully allocated. I do not think the funds will be utilised this year too.”“There is a shortage of funds with the MC. Besides, it will take two months for estimates to be ready. Another one month will go in the tendering process. By the time works start or reach midway, the election code of conduct will come into force in November,” he said.The president of the Seconds Innings Association, a senior citizens’ body, RK Garg, said: “All residents have been suffering due to poor civic amenities for the past two years. Suddenly, the Administration has loosened its purse strings. Is the Administration also in the poll mode?”Mayor Ravi Kant Sharma said: “We will ensure that all funds are utilised and all pending works are completed this year.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/civic-body-allocates-rs-80-lakh-each-to-wards-199509
17-01-2021||Gaurav Kanthwal||Dera Bassi poultry farmers worried||Tribune News ServiceDera Bassi, January 16With the samples collected from Alpha Poultry Farm (layer) having 55,000 birds and Royal Poultry Farm (layer) with 60,000 birds in Behra village of Dera Bassi being found suspect for bird flu, there is a scare among poultry farmers of the region. Close to 20 lakh birds are being reared commercially in the layer and broiler farms here.Vicky Kalra, a poultry farm owner, said: “The layer farmers (dealing in hen eggs) are keeping a guarded approach while the owners of broiler farms (dealing in chicken) have been more or less clear till now.”Farm owners are taking all precautions to save their livestock. Disinfectant is being sprayed from time to time at the farms.The Animal Husbandry Department teams are inspecting the farms daily. The bird feeding area has been covered so that it is not infected by stray birds such as crows and egrets. Farm workers are being sanitised and medically screened by the teams of the Health Department.Mohali Animal Husbandry Deputy Director Sangeeta Toor said: ‘’Regular sampling and surveillance is being done in the area. Fifty samples are being sent daily from the district to the Northern Regional Disease Diagnostic Laboratory in Jalandhar.’’12 more birds found dead in UTChandigarh: As many as 12 more birds were found dead in different areas of Chandigarh on Saturday. Debendra Dalai, Chief Conservator of Forests, UT, said seven pigeons and five crows were found dead. He said all 21 samples of dead birds, which were sent to the Regional Disease Diagnostic Laboratory, Jalandhar, tested negative for avian influenza. Meanwhile, an official of the Animal Husbandry Department, UT, said the city had been divided into four zones and as many rapid response teams were formed for better surveillance and monitoring of the situation in case of any eventuality after the outbreak of bird flu in the Barwala area of Panchkula. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/dera-bassi-poultry-farmers-worried-199490
17-01-2021||---||Chandigarh shivers as max temperature drops by 9.5 degrees in a day||Chandigarh, January 16The city today saw the maximum temperature dropping by 9.5°C in a single day.The Meteorological Department recorded the maximum temperature of 11.3°C in the city today, which was 10 degrees below normal. The day was relatively warmer yesterday when the mercury had touched a high of 20.8°C.The minimum temp also dropped significantly. From 7.2°C yesterday, it fell to 5.8°C today. The city experienced fog throughout the day, keeping the visibility between 200 metres and 500 metres.As per the forecast, partly cloudy conditions are likely to prevail in the city tomorrow. Shallow to moderate fog is likely too. While Monday and Tuesday are expected to see a mainly clear sky, there is a possibility of shallow to moderate fog.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-shivers-as-max-temperature-drops-by-9-5-degrees-in-a-day-199475
17-01-2021||Naina Mishra||374 take first Covid vaccine jab in Chandigarh||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, January 16On the first day of Covid-19 vaccination drive, 374 healthcare workers were inoculated in the UT against the upper limit of 500 beneficiaries who were to be vaccinated at five sites.At the GMSH-16, 100 beneficiaries got the vaccine shots while 70 people were vaccinated at the Civil Hospital in Sector 45. As many as 95 beneficiaries received the vaccine at the two sites in the GMCH-32. At the PGI, 109 beneficiaries were immunised.No major adverse eventThe turnout at the GMCH-32 remained 47 per cent. There were two vaccination sites at the hospital and the message was sent to more than 200 healthcare workers.The Director of the GMCH-32, Dr Jaswinder Kaur, who took the jab along with her husband, who is the Head of Pulmonary Medicine, said: “It is a great feeling to be vaccinated against Covid-19. At our hospital, many senior doctor couples took the vaccine together.”Talking about the tepid response on the first day, Dr Deepak Chawla, nodal officer of the GMCH-32, said: “Those who will come forward to receive the vaccine during initial days will be early adopters. Those who missed the dose due to apprehension or any other reason will be rescheduled. As people’s confidence builds in the vaccine and their hesitancy decreases, a tipping point will be reached.”Director, Health Services, Amandeep Kang, Medical Superintendent of the GMSH-16, VK Nagpal, senior doctors and IMA members present were among those vaccinated.Dr Manjinder Singh Randhawa, who is posted in the Paediatric Emergency, received the first shot at the PGI. He urged others to have faith in science and opt for vaccination.‘All anxieties withered away soon’Arun (20), a safai karamchari at the GMCH-16, who worked at the forefront in the fight against Covid all these months, got the first jab. He said: “I was quite apprehensive since morning about the adverse events related to the vaccine. But as soon as I received the shot and spent 30 minutes in an observation room, all anxieties withered away. I did not feel even a slightest reaction to the injection. I have been told to take all precautions as the antibodies will take some time to develop. I have also been told to contact doctors in case of any reaction and come back for the second dose after 28 days.”Now, I can work without fear of Covid-19 transmission: DoctorOne of the oldest beneficiaries to get vaccinated on Saturday was a 70-year-old former doctor of the GMSH-16, Dr Ashok Gupta. He said: “I am feeling quite assured after vaccination. Now, I will be able to do justice to my patients without any fear of Covid-19 transmission.”Secretary clears air on Co-WIN glitchesOn the reports of glitches in the Co-WIN app, UT Health Secretary Arun Gupta said the drive had not been suspended. “All vaccine centres will operate four days a week. We shall held next session on January 19 and dispatch messages on Monday for the same after Sunday break.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/374-take-first-covid-vaccine-jab-in-chandigarh-199477
