18-01-2021||Chandigarh||27 new COVID-19 cases in Chandigarh||Chandigarh on Monday reported 27 new coronavirus cases, taking the infection count to 20,564, according to a medical bulletin.No death was reported on Monday. The death toll stands at 330, as per the bulletin.There are 203 active cases as of now, it said.A total of 53 patients were discharged after they recovered from the infection, taking the number of those recovered to 20,031, the bulletin stated.A total of 2,01,373 samples have been taken for testing so far and of them, 1,79,867 tested negative while reports of 98 samples were awaited. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/27-new-covid-19-cases-in-chandigarh-200246
18-01-2021||Sanjay Bumbroo||Date out, AAP yet to finalise candidates||Tribune News ServiceMohali, January 17Even as the State Election Commission has announced the date for the MC poll in the state, the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) is yet to finalise its candidates for the forthcoming elections in Mohali.According to information, around three-four persons each from 23 wards have shown interest in contesting the elections and approached the party high command in this regard. The party will hold a survey to finalise the candidates within the next few days.Confirming the same, AAP district president Parminder Singh Goldy said they would hold a survey regarding the winning capability of candidates as three-four persons each from 23 wards have applied for the ticket for the Mohali MC poll. The party would release the list of about 50 per cent candidates within a day or two.Goldy said they had finalised and released the list of 14 and six candidates for 17 wards of the Lalru and Kurali Municipal Committees, respectively. He said the remaining candidates would be finalised within the next few days.Goldy said this was for the first time that the party would be contesting elections for the Municipal Committees in Lalru, Kurali, Kharar, Zirakpur and Dera Bassi and the Mohali Municipal Corporation. He said as traditional parties, including the Congress and the Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD), had failed to fulfil the promises, people would now be voting for the AAP for the development of Mohali city as well as other towns in the district.The SAD had already announced its candidates for 28 wards of the Mohali Municipal Corporation.The elections would be held in 50 wards with an estimated 2.36 lakh voter base in Mohali city. The former councillors of the Congress and the SAD have already started highlighting their achievements on social media.Sukhdev Singh Dhindsa, who floated a splinter Akali group, Shiromani Akali Dal (Democratic), in July, had decided not to contest the elections and instead support AAP candidates in all municipal committees and Municipal Corporation elections in Mohali district.The civic body is elected for a period of five years. The previous five-year term ended on April 26 last year. In the 2015 elections, 27 councillors, including 10 from the Azad group, 14 from the Congress and two Independent councillors, had elected Kulwant Singh as the mayor. Later, in August 2017, Kulwant joined the SAD.Meanwhile, former Superintendent of Police (SP) Sarabjit Singh Pandher has announced to contest the elections from Ward No. 14 on the AAP ticket. The former cop started campaign by holding a public meeting in his ward.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/date-out-aap-yet-to-finalise-candidates-199982
18-01-2021||---||Shivam helps city lads claim 131-run victory over Sikkim||Chandigarh, January 17A fine 75-run contribution by Shivam Bhambri helped Chandigarh register a convincing 131-run win over Sikkim in the ongoing Syed Mustaq Ali Trophy at Guru Nanak College Ground in Chennai today.After winning the toss, city skipper Manan Vohra opted to bat first. The side posted 204/6 in the allotted 20 overs. The skipper, along with Arslan Khan, opened the innings. The duo raised a 37-run partnership before Vohra (19) was bowled out by Palzor. Bhambri thereafter joined Khan to raise a 10-run partnership. Khan (19) was caught by Anureet Singh off Nitesh Kumar Gupta. Next batsman AK Kaushik (11) contributed a little before becoming Gupta’s second victim.Down to 73/3, city lads got a major shot when Bhambri and Bipul Sharma raised a 75-run partnership. They took the total to 171, before Sharma (42 off 22 balls, with one boundary and four sixes) and Bhambri (75 off 46 balls, including nine boundaries and two sixes) fall prey to Varun Sood. Gurinder Singh, thereafter, scored a quick fire 22 off 9 studded with one boundary and two sixes before Palzor claimed his wicket.Jaskarandeep Singh (11) left unbeaten for Chandigarh. Sood, Palzor and Gupta claimed two wickets each for the bowling side.In reply, Sikkim lads could score only 73/4 in 20 overs. Sood (34 off 39 balls, with one boundary and two sixes) and Palzor (10) were the two main contributors for the side. Sharma claimed two wickets, while Gurinder and Bhagmender Lather took one each for the bowling side.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/shivam-helps-city-lads-claim-131-run-victory-over-sikkim-199983
18-01-2021||Amarjot Kaur||Shatabdi on slow track as last year’s earnings shrink||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, January 17The actual earnings of Kalka-New Delhi Shatabdi Special in 2020 shrunk to just 6.5 per cent of the popular train’s revenue in 2019 as the rail services remained suspended for a significant part of the year to contain Covid-19.The actual earnings of Kalka Shatabdi Express fell from Rs44.23 crore for April-December 2019 period to Rs2.89 crore from April 1 to December 31, 2020, according to the data provided by the Ambala Division of Northern Railways.The train, which ferried a total of 6,11,312 passengers last year for nine months starting from April, became operational only in December 2020 after the train services were suspended in March to prevent the spread of the virus.In the last one month of its revival in 2020, Kalka-New Delhi Special Shatabdi trains (02011 and 02012) ferried a total of 51,793 passengers. However, in December 2019, the trains carried 69,774 passengers and made an earning of Rs5.05 crore.GM Singh, DRM, Ambala Division, said: “In year 2020, passenger trains were affected first when the Covid-induced lockdown was announced and then due to the farmers’ ‘rail roko’ protest. During the protest, the freight trains also suffered.” Fact fileThe actual earnings of the Kalka Shatabdi Express fell from Rs 44.23 crore for the April-December 2019 period to Rs 2.89 crore from April 1 to December 31, 2020, according to the data provided by Ambala Division of the Northern Railway.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/shatabdi-on-slow-track-as-last-years-earnings-shrink-199984
18-01-2021||---||Ramanjot wins gold medal in Under-14 ball throw event||Chandigarh, January 17Ramanjot Singh claimed gold medal in the boys’ U-14 ball throw event during the ongoing Chandigarh State Athletics Meet at the Sector 7 Sports Complex.Santgatyan and Naunihal claimed second and third positions, respectively. In the 600m event, Daksh, Rishhandeep Singh and Ramanjot claimed first three positions, respectively. Devansh won the 60m event, followed by Ashish at second position and Taksh at third.In the girls’ U-16 3,000m walk, Sandhya (21:50.49s), Neelam (22:50.55s) and Reena (22:59.45s) won top three positions, while in the boys’ 500m event, Sonu (35:35.06s), Harmanjot (36:50.03s) and Niraj Kumar (38:45.33s) claimed medals.City girl declared best athleteA city girl, Sara, was declared the best athlete in U-20 girls’ category in the Chandigarh Sub Junior and Junior Athletics Championship, which concluded today. Sara came first in 100m race and long jump. The championship was organised by the Chandigarh Athletics Association.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/ramanjot-wins-gold-medal-in-under-14-ball-throw-event-199985
18-01-2021||---||Last literary work of Prof Hans released||Chandigarh, January 17 On the first death anniversary of scholar Surjit Hans, his last creative work, a collection of poetry, “Mrit da Supna” (dream of the dead), was released today.  While remembering Professor Hans, Hindi writer Madhav Kaushik said the true assessment of his contribution to the Punjabi literature was yet to be made. “A writer has an advantage. He/she can pass a verdict on every act of injustice instantly.” A renowned political scientist, Prof Harish Puri, who was Hans’ colleague at the GNDU, said Hans was known for summing up complex developments in a few words.  A Punjabi writer and Professor Hans’ close friend, Gulzar Singh Sandhu, said he was nothing short of an encyclopaedia. “I always consulted him instead of consulting an encyclopaedia,” he said. Dr Areet Kaur, Director, National Health Mission, said his works were eternal. “His generation was hard working.” One of his former students, Amarjit Kaur, Head of the History Department at the GNDU, recalled that Professor Hans wouldn’t keep a dictionary on his table and would always walk to the library to check even a single word. Veteran journalist Nirupama Dutt said Prof Hans had left great memories behind.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/last-literary-work-of-prof-hans-released-199986
18-01-2021||Deepankar Sharda||PU may conduct semester exams in blended mode||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, January 17Panjab University (PU) is likely to conduct the next semester exams through a blended (both online and offline) mode, said sources.The exams will start in the last week of February or the first week of March. A meeting in this regard was held on Saturday and all stakeholders reportedly agreed on conducting blended-mode exams. An official announcement in this regard will be made after getting an approval of the PU Vice-Chancellor.“The meeting was conducted yesterday and a unanimous decision has been made. However, the final decision will be taken by the competent authority,” said Dr Jagat Bhushan, Controller of Examinations (CoE), PU. The sources claimed that a committee recommended conducting the blended mode examination. Over 3 lakh students of the PU and its affiliated colleges will take the exams.Last September, the PU had conducted blended-mode examination wherein the candidates were required to attempt 50 per cent of the question paper by choosing questions. The candidates were asked to solve the questions from their respective locations on A4 size paper in his/her handwriting with a maximum page limit of 12 sheets.The candidates were required to write his/her roll number/class/paper/course and signature on each sheet. The students were given two hours to submit the answer sheets. Besides submission by respective authorities, the question paper was also allowed to be uploaded on the university’s website or sent by registered mails.“The schedule of these examinations will be released after getting an approval of the Vice-Chancellor office. The colleges and other regional centres will be also taken into consideration for announcing the examination schedule. It’s to be believed that the examinations will be conducted on the similar pattern as before,” said the sources.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/pu-may-conduct-semester-exams-in-blended-mode-199987
18-01-2021||Ramkrishan Upadhyay||Can’t deny claim over healed injury, commission tells firm||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, January 17The District Consumer Disputes Redressal Commission, Chandigarh, stated that a fracture or an injury once healed ceases to be a disease or sickness and an insurance firm cannot deny the claim to a consumer on the basis that he/she concealed such a past injury.The commission has directed an insurance firm to release the cost of the treatment — Rs70, 000 — of fracture to a consumer who was denied the claim on the plea that the consumer concealed the fact that she had suffered a similar fracture in the past.The commission also directed the firm to pay Rs15,000 as the compensation for causing mental agony and harassment and to pay Rs10,000 as the costs of litigation to the complainant. Manoj Kumar Sarin, a city resident, approached the commission after the insurance firm denied the claim to her wife.He said he took Max Bupa Health Insurance Policy for two persons — for himself and his wife — on the payment of Rs41,435 in 2019 and the sum insured was Rs5 lakh each. While the policy was continuing, his wife slipped while cleaning the house on October 20, 2019.She was taken to the General Hospital, Sector 16, Chandigarh, and her X-ray revealed a fracture in left forearm. The policy was cashless and the complainant decided to undergo the treatment from a specialist. He had then admitted his wife to Healing Hospital, Sector 34. However, the insurance firm denied the claim of Rs70,000 spent on the treatment.The claim was again submitted with documents, but was rejected again by the company “due to the non-disclosure of facts — operated case of fracture shaft of radius with plating not disclosed”. Manoj Kumar alleged that the act of the insurance company was tantamount to a deficiency in service and unfair trade practice.The insurance firm denied the allegations and justified the rejection of the claim by saying that the complainant’s wife had a history of the disease.After hearing the arguments, the commission noted that the wife of the complainant had a fresh injury and suffered a new fracture which is unrelated to any previous injury and she was functioning absolutely normal for the past five years. A fracture once healed not a pre-existing disease. “Hence, there is no question of concealment of previous disease when it ceased to be a disease after the treatment 4-5 years ago. Hence, the rejection of the claim by the company clearly amounts to deficiency in service and unfair trade practice,” stated the commission.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/cant-deny-claim-over-healed-injury-commission-tells-firm-199988
18-01-2021||---||Five booked on kidnapping charge, seeking Rs3-lakh ransom||Mohali, January 17The police have registered a case against five persons for allegedly kidnapping the owner of a mobile shop in Phase 1 here and seeking a ransom of Rs3 lakh for bailing him out of a fake gambling case.Complaint Sanam Garg, owner of Garg Telecommunications in Phase 1, in his statement to the police, said three unidentified men, two in police uniform and one in civil clothes, approached him on the evening of January 15 and guided him to an SUV parked nearby.Two persons waiting in the SUV took him to Sector 76 and told him that he has been booked for gambling. However, if he paid them Rs3 lakh, he could go scot-free.The complainant asked his brother to bring Rs3 lakh. On seeing some persons with Garg’s brother, the suspects tried to flee from the spot. However, Garg managed to jump out of the moving car.On Saturday, the police registered a case against the suspects under Sections 364 and 34 of the IPC at the Phase 1 police station.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/five-booked-on-kidnapping-charge-seeking-rs3-lakh-ransom-199989
18-01-2021||Deepankar Sharda---||Will Chandigarh Olympic Association follow NSDC?||Tribune News Service Chandigarh, January 17  Will the Chandigarh Olympic Association (COA) follow National Sports Development Code (NSDC) in its upcoming elections on January 27? Though the COA claims that is not bound to follow the NSDC, a circular issued by the UT Sports Department before their 2016 elections describes the situation otherwise.  “We are not bound to follow the NSDC as per the Indian Olympic Association (IOA) guidelines. Otherwise also, we have nothing to hide anything from anyone,” said Maha Singh, general secretary, COA. When asked about the UT Sports Department’s old circular, wherein the COA was asked to follow the NSDC or no observer would be appointed for their elections, Singh said “If they (Sports Department) don’t want to send an observer then it’s their wish.”   Notably, on failing to adopt the NSDC an organisation did not get financial assistance from the Sports Department.  As per letter dated March 2, 2016, the then Joint Director (Sports), UT Sports Department, asked the COA to implement the NSDC.  “The provisions of the NSDC have been enforced to improve governance and functioning of associations. It’s mandatory for associations recognised by the UT Sports Department and the Chandigarh Sport Council to implement the said provisions for the release of grants,” the circular stated.  Is COA a defaulter?  Meanwhile, in another circular issued on September 23, 2016, the then Director Sports, UT Sports Department, confirmed that the COA had been declared defaulter. “The Chandigarh Sports Council has extended RsRs 3, 87,869 financial assistance to the COA. After deducting outstanding Rs78,520, the balance was released on January 1, 2015. The COA has not submitted utilisation certificate in this regard. The list of eligible voters has not been submitted to the department. The COA has been declared defaulter due to non compliance of the NSDC formalities, which were to be implemented by March 2, 2016,” he said.  Not received any request for poll observer Meanwhile, the Director (Sports), UT Sports Department, Tejdeep Singh Saini, confirmed that they had not received any request from the COA to appoint an observer for the elections. “We have not received any request from the COA till date,” he said.  “All associations should follow whatever guidelines/code issued by the Ministry of Sports or the UT Sports Department, Chandigarh,” he added.   “The COA has been asking its affiliated units to follow the NSDC while electing their bodies. However, the association did not implement the code on itself. In last elections, certain associations were debarred from taking part in the election process for not following the NSDC. If Chandigarh Sports Department and Council has implemented it on everyone, then why not on the COA?” questioned Chander Mukhi Sharma, president, Chandigarh Basketball Association.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/will-chandigarh-olympic-association-follow-nsdc-199992
18-01-2021||---||Jalandhar bowled out for 192 runs||Patiala, January 17Cricket Club, Jalandhar, was bowled out for 192 runs in the first innings by Maini, Ludhiana, on the first day of 1st Hans Raj Saggi Foundation Cup 2021 (Under 19) being held at the Saggi grounds here today.Winning the toss, Jalandhar opted to bat first. They got into trouble losing both opening batsmen for duck. The batting order collapsed and Jalandhar were in deep trouble losing five wickets just for 18 runs.However, 110-run partnership between Vinay Paul and Yuvansh helped Jalandhar reach a decent total of 192. Vinay Paul with 74 runs was the highest run scorer for Jalandhar. Yuvansh Chopra scored 45 runs.Lovedeep Singh was the highest wicket taker for Ludhiana. He took four wickets for 42 runs. Paras Jaidka took three wickets and Emanjot two. Jashan and Manan Kumar took one wicket each.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/jalandhar-bowled-out-for-192-runs-199993
18-01-2021||---||Expect clear sky for three days||Chandigarh, January 17For the next three days, the city is likely to witness a clear sky. However, shallow to moderate fog may prevail.According to the Met Department, the day temperature improved today with a partly clear sky. The maximum temperature was 19.2°C, two degrees below normal. The minimum temperature too improved in the city. It was 8.3°C, three degrees more than normal. Yesterday, the department recorded the maximum temperature at 11.3°C and the minimum at 5.8°C. For the past few days, residents have had a tough time due to foggy weather.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/expect-clear-sky-for-three-days-199994
18-01-2021||Sandeep Rana||Fire safety: Violators to lose water, power connections||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, January 17Not adhering to the fire safety norms can now cost violators the water and electricity connections. Any encroachment, which is against the fire safety norms, will invite a challan.These are the new rules under the Delhi Fire Service Act-2007, which will now be extended to the UT. Till now, the city was following the Delhi Fire Prevention and Fire Safety Act-1986, which has already been repealed by Delhi.“Many developments took place in the past few years like coming up of multi-storey buildings, housing societies and coaching institutions, along with certain modifications in commercial establishments. Thus, provisions under the 1986 Act were proving to be outdated. Since Delhi has already repealed it, we too have to go with the latest norms,” said a senior fire official.“The Surat fire tragedy was a wake-up call for all. By following this new Act, we will have more stringent norms for such institutions to follow. We will be in a better position to ensure safety of people and compliance with the fire safety directives,” he added.A committee was formed to prepare a draft of the Act, which the MC will follow with minor modifications as per the Chandigarh set-up. The panel headed by Additional Commissioner Anil Kumar Garg also has all fire station officers, a law officer and a fire superintendent as members. The committee has already held two meetings. The draft of the Act will be brought to the MC House for approval.“If goods are kept in the passage and pose hindrance to the fire safety operation, we will issue a challan. If fire safety directives are not followed despite notices, we will have the power to remove water and power connection of the occupant of the building. There are several such new guidelines in the new law,” said a UT fire official.Meanwhile, implementation of existing laws is already a Herculean task for officials as well as people. At present, violation of fire safety norms is rampant at many commercial and rehri markets in the city.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/fire-safety-violators-to-lose-water-power-connections-199995
18-01-2021||---||PNB official booked for fraud of Rs16 lakh||Panchkula, January 17A retired manager of the HMT was allegedly duped of Rs16 lakh by six Punjab National Bank (PNB) officials, who floated “fake” insurance policies for the victim.One of the officials, Kuldeep Singh Rana, has been booked in the case.The victim, Jasram of New Saini Mohalla in Pinjore, told the police that he had visited the PNB Main Bazaar branch to renew his FD account in 2017. Rana had then “induced him to buy a policy with quick benefits that will mature in a year”. The victim fell for the scheme and invested in the single-premium policy on April 2017. Jasram paid Rs1,50,000 for the policy through a cheque.In April 2018, when the victim enquired about the maturity of his policy, the suspects offered him another policy of Rs5 lakh and asked him to have the maturity amount of the previous policy (Rs1.90 lakh) adjusted towards the new policy. The victim then issued a cheque for Rs3.10 lakh to Rana, who encashed the cheque on April 12, 2018. The next day, Rs1.47 lakh was deducted from the bank account of the victim. Upon asking the bank manager, the victim came to know that the deduction was for his PNB MetLife policy.Rana, while terming it an error, assured him of a rectification. The suspect kept offering the victim cold comfort for a year to quell his suspicion.In April 2019, Rana promised the victim complete repayment of the previous two policies. The victim was issued five cheques amounting to Rs11 lakh between August 20, 2019, and November 30, 2019, by Rana. These cheques bounced later.The victim, during the same period, paid an amount of Rs10 lakh for another policy. After the policy matured in 90 days, the victim was handed over a cheque for Rs10.15 lakh, which also bounced on July 25, 2019, like the previous ones.After the victim reached out to Rana, he urged him not to take any legal action and promised repayment in cash.As he was under financial strain, the victim approached the Sector 17 PNB MetLife office, where he got to know that only the first policy offered to him for Rs1.50 lakh was legal.The other two — one for Rs5 lakh and the other for Rs10 lakh — were fake and non-existent.The suspects could only return the victim Rs2.50 lakh.A case was registered under Section 406 (punishment for criminal breach of trust) and 420 (cheating and dishonestly inducing delivery of property) of the IPC against Rana at the Pinjore police station.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/pnb-official-booked-for-fraud-of-rs16-lakh-199996
18-01-2021||---||One fatality, 54 fresh cases in Mohali district||Mohali, January 17One more fatality was witnessed in the district during the past 24 hours, taking the toll to 354.Meanwhile, 54 fresh Covid cases surfaced in the district, while 40 more patients recovered from the virus.Among the fresh cases, 33 were reported from Mohali (urban), one from Kurali, two from Dera Bassi, three from Gharuan, seven from Kharar and eight from Dhakoli.The district has so far seen 19,019 cases and 17,835 patients have been cured. There are now 830 active cases in the district.34 more test positive in ChandigarhChandigarh: The city on Sunday reported 34 fresh cases of Covid, taking the UT case tally to 20,537. The toll remained 330. A total of 43 patients recovered from the disease in the past 24 hours. TNS23 new cases in PanchkulaPanchkula: The district on Sunday reported 23 fresh coronavirus cases, taking the overall tally to 10,349. The Covid toll remained at 145. While 10,007 patients have recovered from the infectious disease, 197 cases are still active. The recovery rate of the district stands at 96.69 per cent. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/one-fatality-54-fresh-cases-in-mohali-district-199997
18-01-2021||Chandigarh||10 birds found dead in city||Ten more birds were found dead in differen5t parts of the city today. Officials said the birds seemed to have died a natural death. Till now, no positive case of bird flu has been detected in the samples of birds found dead in the city.Today, a pigeon each was found dead in Sector 7 and 63, three crows in Sector 38, a crow each in Sector 40 and 38 (West), the PUand Mani Majra and a bat in Sector 32. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/10-birds-found-dead-in-city-199998
18-01-2021||Panchkula||Avian influenza: Over 81K birds culled in nine days||The culling operations got over at three poultry farms in the Barwala-Raipur Rani belt on its eighth day on Sunday after the confirmation of avian influenza in the region.A total of 81,878 birds were culled at Siddharth Poultry Farm, Nature Poultry Farm and Narender Poultry Farm to break the chain of infection. As many as 3,008 eggs were also destroyed since January 9. Confirming the development, Deputy Commissioner Mukesh Kumar Ahuja said the culling operations in the infected region of 1-km had been completed in nine days.In an earlier notification, it was stated that around 1.66 lakh birds will be culled at five farms. However, the Panchkula administration later excluded two farms. On the basis of remeasurement, the administration had claimed that their locations were outside the 1-km radius of the two epicentres.Even as bird flu has already been confirmed by the Jalandhar-based Northern Regional Disease Diagnostic Laboratory at four more poultry farms in the Barwala-Raipur Rani belt, their confirmatory reports from Bhopal are still awaited.The DC said they were still awaiting reports from the Bhopal lab on confirmation of bird flu in more poultry farms. He added that samples collected from 16-17 poultry farms of late would be sent to the Haryana Agricultural University in Hisar where these would be tested for bird flu. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/avian-influenza-over-81k-birds-culled-in-nine-days-199999
18-01-2021||---||Day after vaccination, beneficiaries report no major side effects||Chandigarh, January 17 A day after the first jab of Covishield was given to healthcare workers in the city, no major side effects or adverse events have come to the fore so far. Dr Amandeep Kaur Kang, Director, Health Services, UT, said: “No calls were received on the emergency helpline — 1075. A few reported fever, which is a common side effect after any vaccination. However, health workers are reportedly consulting their peers rather than approaching the authorities through the helpline.” A total of 109 healthcare workers were vaccinated at the PGI.  Dr SS Pandav, who heads the Covid-19 immunisation at the institute, said some beneficiaries reported soreness at the injections site and two or three reported mild fever. “These are expected and common side effects of any vaccine,” he said. Dr Sanjay D Cruz, who is in-charge of adverse events following immunisation (AEFI) at the GMCH-32, said all beneficiaries were doing fine. “Just three healthcare workers from our institute reported fever.” On the first day of the Covid-19 vaccination, 374 healthcare workers were inoculated in Chandigarh. The vaccination drive went off without any major adverse event at all session sites. The next session will be conducted on Tuesday.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/day-after-vaccination-beneficiaries-report-no-major-side-effects-200000
18-01-2021||Did authorities fail to show urgency in tackling bird flu in Panchkula district? ||Apathy & negligence towards flu outbreak not ruled out||Improve disease surveillanceThe last few decades have seen outbreaks of avian influenza in several countries. In India the first outbreak of 2005-06 saw a million birds culled. This time the cause of worry is its wider spread with Gujarat, Haryana, HP, Kerala, MP, Rajasthan and UP having confirmed it already while Chhattisgarh, Delhi and Maharashtra await test results. Given that the proximity of commercially reared birds to wild or migratory ones is what spreads bird flu. Except, the great blessing is that bird flu virus strains rarely jump species. A few cases where humans have been infected involve either direct contact with live birds or infected surfaces. Better disease surveillance will serve everybody much better. The Panchkula authorities have been found lagging on this front keeping in view the avian flu outbreak in the Barwala belt. Misinformation has already taken a severe toll on various sectors of the economy due to pandemic. This should not happen again. Well cooked chicken and eggs don’t carry virus. Baseless rumours do hurt the poultry industry and eateries beyond the bird flu itself.Sanjay Chopra, MohaliAuthorities did not take h5n8 seriouslyAlthough birds in poultry farms in Barwala and Raipur Rani started dying in early December, the district authorities did not take it seriously. Now crows are dying, which proves spread of avian flu. Poultry farms must be inspected periodically to check the spread of bird flu and other diseases. People can be advised not to consume poultry products for some time. Outbreak of pandemic due to virus shows human follies and negligence.Capt Amar Jeet (retd), MohaliFollow standard operating procedureWe are struggling to recover from the coronavirus pandemic and bird flu has knocked at doors creating panic among people. Bird flu has affected seven states. Fighting two viruses simultaneously will be a Herculean task. Centre and state governments must gear up and instruct departments concerned to take all necessary precautions to keep the situation under control. SOPs like proper testing and disposal of dead infected birds must be followed. Poultry products should be examined thoroughly before selling to consumers. Cleanliness is must in poultry farms. Healthy birds should be isolated from infected.Deepak, ChandigarhDisinfect affected areas properlyAmid Covid-19 pandemic, the news of bird flu is scary. Now when, avian flu outbreak has been reported, the authorities concerned have woken up and the culling process is underway. This shows lapses on part of the administration in dealing with a serious matter. To prevent disease transmission, necessary steps like strengthening security at poultry farms, disinfection of affected areas and proper disposal of dead birds should be done on priority.Anureet Dhami, ZirakpurTime lost in flu confirmationThere is no denying the fact that the Animal Husbandry Department failed to send samples dead birds of Barwala and Raipur Rani poultry farms for laboratory testing on time. The authorities down played the bird flu issue. They sent samples to Jalandhar lab, which is not equipped to ascertain the exact cause of death of birds. A central team, which visited infected sites, instructed local officials to send bird samples to National Institute of High Security Animal Diseases, Bhopal, for the confirmation of the bird flu. Time was lost in confirmation of the avian flu. The state government must take steps to prevent the transmission of this virus to humans.SC Luthra, ChandigarhEducate officials on proper responseThe negligence of the Panchkula authorities in tackling the bird flu has definitely come to the fore as it is spreading beyond state. Had the authorities showed urgency the spread of flu might have been curbed efficaciously. Prevention is always better than cure. It’s time to crack a whip on the authorities concerned and educate them regarding the importance of prompt response.Shobhna Kalra, PanchkulaA case of dereliction of dutyTruly, it is a case of dereliction of duty on the part of the authorities concerned. Nobody ever tried to ascertain the reason behind deaths of birds in the first week of December. It has become a trend in the country that till any problem does not touch severity, nobody bothers about it. The careless attitude of the authorities must be curbed.Bir Devinder Singh Bedi, ChandigarhKeep a check on day-to-day basisChickens at poultry farms in Barwala and Raipur Rani in Haryana started dying in early December, but officials concerned didn’t bother to send bird samples for testing to laboratory to ascertain the cause of death. Laxity on part of officials should not be overlooked. Action should be initiated against them. Higher officials of the administration must keep a check on day-to-day basis on the situation to prevent the spread of bird flu and guide the field staff.MR Bhateja, NayagaonCannot ignore bird flu casesThe Panchkula administration has come under flak for not taking timely action to prevent the spread of bird flu. As we know that Covid-19 pandemic halted the whole world, so we cannot ignore bird flu cases. Despite knowing that Barwala-Raipur Rani area is the biggest poultry belt in the country, the Panchkula authorities failed to send samples of dead birds for testing to laboratory.Adish Sood, AmlohNo one cares about hygienePoultry is hardly taken care of in terms of hygiene, pre-diagnosis of disease and feed. Poultry farm owners ignore all these factors for earning money. Had these factors been taken care of, bird flu could have been detected on time and chickens could have been saved. The government should intervene and come up with laws to maintain hygiene and check the spread of disease in poultry farms. A committee should be set up to keep a vigil on poultry farms.Abhilasha Gupta, MohaliSeal infected areasThere is no point of criticising the Panchkula authorities for delay in the confirmation of bird flu cases. The authorities should formulate and implement new policies to prevent the spread of avian flu, which has created a new fear in minds of the people. The infected region should be sealed.Priyam Aggarwal, ChandigarhMake all efforts to check bird fluThe authorities concerned failed to check the avian flu in its infancy due to lackadaisical attitude. The authorities should have immediately constituted a task force, collected samples and sent them for testing for avian flu and alerted everyone. The Panchkula region, where bird flu cases have been confirmed, is Asia’s second largest poultry belt. Chances of spread of bird flu from this region are high. Before this flu turns into an epidemic the authorities must make all efforts to stop its spread.Simran Sidhu, ChandigarhA crippling blow to poultry industryThe Panchkula authorities swung in to action only after the arrival of a team sent by the Centre. Perhaps, earlier they thought that birds could have died due to extreme weather conditions. Reportedly, the central team expressed disappointment over inaction by the authorities. Poultry products sale has taken a hit. This is a crippling blow to this industry. Bird flu is a contagious disease. Action should be taken before it’s too late to contain the spread avian flu. The situation calls for careful inspection and coordination by departments concerned.Vidya Sagar Garg, PanchkulaAdmn to blame for avian tragedyThe death of more than 4.50 lakh birds at various poultry farms in Panchkula’s Barwala belt due to avian flu is more shocking than surprising. The district administration cannot absolve itself of the onus of this avian tragedy. What is more distressing is that even as more than several lakh birds perished in the Barwala and Raipur Rani areas, considered to be the Asia’s second largest poultry belt housing more than 150 poultry farms, the authorities concerned were totally unaware of the possible reasons that led to unusual deaths of birds. The district administration woke up to the great avian tragedy of this magnitude only when the central team pitched in following the raging reports of unusual deaths of birds due to the deadly flu. The alarming scare triggered by deaths of poultry birds, besides scaring people of the state, hit the industry hard. The district authorities as also owners of poultry farms are to be summarily blamed for the jaw-dropping avian tragedy caused by their sheer negligence. Had the district administration adhered to alerts and advisories, the avian tragedy could have been averted. The ruling dispensation does not seem to have learnt lessons from the past. The administration acted as a lame duck and allowed the situation to go out of control. There is no denying the fact that had the district administration taken the situation with all seriousness several lakhs of birds could have been saved from perishing.Ramesh K Dhiman, ChandigarhImplement poultry rules strictlyAvian flu has affected many states, including Haryana especially Panchkula district. The administration should focus on strictly implementing rules concerning the poultry industry. Already the whole world is facing coronavirus, which has left the economy in tatters. The administration should keep a check on poultry farms in Panchkula district to prevent avian tragedy of such magnitude.Avinash Goyal, ChandigarhFarm owners hid unusual deathsIt is almost evident that poultry farms owners hid unusual deaths of poultry birds from the authorities for commercial benefits. Thereafter, when the matter came into the notice of authorities, they also did not care to take prompt action in the matter. The authorities should have taken action, informed residents about unnatural deaths of poultry birds and sent samples for testing on time. Defaulting farm owners as well as officials concerned should be taken to task.Balbir Singh Batra, MohaliOwners & authorities were negligentUnnatural death of birds was not reported or noticed by poultry farm owners and the authorities. Both have failed in their obligations and duties. The incident has endangered lives of persons employed in poultry farms and the public. It was also observed that casual testing and reporting without any urgency was another reason for the delay in necessary action by the local authorities. During these trying times everyone should tighten their belts to face the double pandemic situation.Bharat Bhushan Sharma, ChandigarhBiosecurity, infection control neededBird flu may become a pandemic. Poultry business is suffering loss with thousands of birds dying every day. Need of the hour is to take precautions. People working at poultry farms should follow biosecurity and infection control practices. They should get a jab of seasonal influenza vaccine every year. People should not dispose of bird carcass with bare hands. Use gloves or an inverted plastic bag for the purpose. Poultry product should be well cooked before consumption.Charu Malhotra, MohaliRequired Regular, random testingDelayed detection of the avian flu points fingers at the irresponsible action of the Panchkula authorities. This spread flu to many other nearby poultry farms in Barwala and Raipur Rani belt leading to panic among consumers of poultry products. There should have been regular and random testing of the birds by the authorities concerned. Coordination with the Forest Department for reporting any unusual mortality of wild birds was also mandated by the government, but no one paid any heed to this. The best way to prevent avian influenza infection is to avoid sources of exposure. The administration should check protocols, which are to be followed by owners of poultry farms. States are supposed to keep a vigil on any unusual mortality amongst birds and report immediately, but the Panchkula administration failed on this count as well. Action plan on avian flu, includes strengthening the biosecurity of poultry farms, disinfection of affected areas, proper disposal of dead birds/carcasses, timely collection and submission of samples for confirmation and further surveillance, intensification of surveillance plan. The government and the authorities have to be alert round-the-clock to control avian flu.Anil Kumar Yadav, ChandigarhNotify symptoms of bird fluThe Panchkula authorities did not show any urgency when birds started dying in Barwala and Raipur Rani areas. The Covid-19 pandemic has taught us many lessons, including preparedness for any infection. This should help fight the avian flu. The Administration should issue strict instructions to residents to call the helpline if any dead bird is found in their surroundings. The government should also notify residents for symptoms of the flu. Sample testing should be quick. The helpline should function 24x7.Saikrit Gulati, ChandigarhQUESTIONNow that the Covid-19 vaccination drive has started and fresh cases of the virus are on the decline, should parents send their children to school as the Chandigarh Administration has allowed resumption of Classes VI to VII in government schools? Suggestions in not more than 70 words can be sent to openhouse@tribunemail.com||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/apathy-negligence-towards-flu-outbreak-not-ruled-out-200022
18-01-2021||Chandigarh||Four booked on charge of assault||Man’s body found hangingChandigarh: The body of an unidentified man was found hanging from a tree at a forest near Sarangpur. The police said prima facie, it appeared to be a case of suicide. The victim, aged around 35, was found hanging on Saturday. “The body appeared to be around five days old,” the police said. An investigation has been initiated at the Sarangpur police station. TNSYouth dies as mobike skidsChandigarh: A 21-year-old youth was killed after the motorcycle he was riding reportedly skidded near Raipur Kalan. The victim has been identified as Sagar Mukhiya of Mauli village. According to the police, information about a youth lying unconscious near the Raipur Kalan T-point was received by them. The police reached the spot and found the victim’s motorcycle lying near the spot. The victim was shifted to the GMCH-32, where doctors declared him brought dead. The police said prima facie it appeared that the victim’s bike skidded due to speeding. “No foul play has come to the fore,” the police said. Inquest proceedings have been initiated. TNSDAV club lift netball titleChandigarh: DAV Sports Club defeated Aurobindo Club 12-10 to win the boys’ final on the concluding day of the Sub Junior State Championship organised by the Netball Sports Promotion Association, Chandigarh, at SGGS College, Sector 26. In the girls’ final, Sacred Heart Club registered a 13-12 win over British Club. Earlier, in the league match, Sports Complex defeated Aurobindo Club 16-7 and DAV Sports Club defeated CLDAV Club 15-7. TNS2 arrested for serving hookahMohali: The police have sealed an eatery, “Brother’s Hub”, for serving hookah to its customers and arrested two persons at Tira village, near Mullanpur, on Sunday. The police have registered a case against three persons, Inderpal Singh, Pardeep and Ranbir Singh under Section 188 of the IPC. Inderpal and Pardeep, both residents of Butrela, have been arrested. Mullanpur SHO Yogesh Kumar said: “Two persons have been arrested. Ranbir, owner of the land on which the eatery was being run, is yet to be arrested. The police are investigating the matter.” TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/four-booked-on-charge-of-assault-200023
