19-01-2021||Chandigarh||Delay in detecting asymptomatic infections behind Covid outbreak in Chandigarh’s Bapu Dham: PGI study||Asymptomatic infections were responsible for the late detection and delayed isolation of coronavirus cases leading to a widespread outbreak in Chandigarh’s Bapu Dham Colony, according to researchers of PGIMER. The doctors of PGIMER have qualified the first infected man from Bapu Dham Colony, as the city’s first ‘superspreader’, in the recent case study published in the Journal of Primary Care & Community Health.A superspreader is someone who is more likely to infect other humans as compared to a typically-infected person.According to the researchers, there may be two reasons behind the outbreak. The person was living in a densely populated, low-income, settlement colony where physical distancing between individuals was not possible.The person also had a high number of community contacts.This, coupled with asymptomatic infections, was responsible for the late detection and delayed isolation of cases leading to a widespread outbreak.“Even though all efforts were made to do contact tracing of the super spreader, these numbers may not reflect the true story as sometimes the patients are not very forthcoming with their history of contact due to stigma associated with quarantine. Another important limitation was that 10 community contacts belonging to 3 families were only screened and not tested by RT-PCR for COVID-19,” read the report.Furthermore, the report said that for contacts of asymptomatic cases who tested negative, repeat testing was not done between 5-14 days. Repeat testing in such cases is recommended, as it is difficult to assess the last date of exposure in such cases and the limited sensitivity of the RT-PCR test.The 33-year-old man termed 'superspreader' worked as a healthcare worker (HCW) in a tertiary care hospital had tested positive for RT-PCR for SARS-CoV2. On contact tracing, a history of attending a small community function in the locality was found and a total of 125 contacts were traced, of which 65 were community contacts and 60 were workplace contacts.The report said that the testing was done for 55 community contacts and all 60 workplace contacts, of which 34 community contacts and 6 workplace contacts were found positive for COVID-19. Therefore in total, 49 COVID-19 infections had direct or indirect contact with the index case, qualifying him as a “superspreader”.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/delay-in-detecting-asymptomatic-infections-behind-covid-outbreak-in-chandigarhs-bapu-dham-pgi-study-200609
19-01-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh to axe 39 trees for road widening||The UT Administration will cut down at least 39 trees for the widening of the road from the Poultry Farm chowk to the Chandigarh Transport Undertaking (CTU) workshop to the railway light point in the Industrial Area, Phase I.The road is being widened to decongest traffic at Tribune Chowk. Parallel to Purv Marg, the road will ease traffic on Dakshin Marg and Madhya Marg. It will also improve the connectivity between the UT and Panchkula.The road will connect the Poultry Farm chowk (Junction 39 on Dakshin Marg) to a road connecting Purv Marg with the railway station road at the T-point near the SDM (East) office in the Industrial Area, Phase I.The Horticulture Division of the UT Engineering Department has invited tenders for cutting down of 39 trees — 12 Arjun Terminalia trees, seven Mulberry, six each of Alstonia Scholaris and Terminalia Bellirica, two each of Balam Kheera and Philkhan, and one each of Deak, Kelotoria, Cassia Fistula and Akash Neem.A senior official of the Engineering Department said to compensate the loss, five times the number of trees being axed would be planted as per the guidelines of the Environment Ministry.Opposing the chopping down of the trees, Rohan Singh, secretary, Environment Society of India, said the decision of the UT Administration to cut down 39 trees to widen a road would impact the environment of the city. He said the UT Administration should try to avoid cutting down of the trees. “If they do not have an alternative, they should plant at least 10 saplings for every tree being chopped down in the city,” he said.However, the work on the widening of the road had been started. After the completion of the work, people coming from the Zirakpur side would be able to reach Madhya Marg directly by avoiding the Tribune Chowk. They could take a right turn towards the Industrial Area from the Poultry Farm chowk.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-to-axe-39-trees-for-road-widening-200338
19-01-2021||Chandigarh||CTU staffer caught taking Rs 50K bribe||The UT Vigilance Department today nabbed a senior assistant posted in the Chandigarh Transport Undertaking (CTU) while allegedly taking a bribe of Rs50,000. Suspect Jai Bhagwan was arrested from the CTU office in the Industrial Area, Phase I.Vigilance officials said the complainant, a government contractor, had taken Dormitory Rest House at the ISBT, Sector 43, on rent.However, due to the pandemic, the complainant had to face losses as there were no customers following which he was finding it difficult to pay the rent. In November, the complainant gave an application to surrender his bid for the rest house.The complainant alleged that Jai Bhagwan was demanding a bribe of Rs1 lakh for speeding up the process of surrendering the bid and the subsequent release of the security deposit. Vigilance sleuths said the complainant had already given Rs50,000 to the suspect after which he approached the Vigilance Department.Today, the complainant went to give the remaining Rs50,000 to him when a Vigilance team nabbed the suspect red-handed. An FIR under the Prevention of Corruption Act has been registered against Jai Bhagwan at the Vigilance police station.Meanwhile, the role of other officials is also being probed in the case.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/ctu-staffer-caught-taking-rs-50k-bribe-200339
19-01-2021||Mohali||SAD bid to woo back rebels||Amid growing resentment among SAD workers, some of whom have resigned over the distribution of the part ticket for the MC elections in Mohali, SAD observer for Mohali district Prem Singh Chandumajra is making all-out efforts to woo them back.According to sources, Chandumajra is trying to establish personal contact with these leaders to woo them back into the party.28 leaders had tendered resignationAfter the expulsion of former Mayor Kulwant Singh from the party, 28 SAD leaders, including office-bearers and former councillors, tendered their resignation on Sunday. They had announced that they would contest the municipal elections under the banner of the Azad Group, led by the former Mayor.Despite repeated attempts, Chandumajra could not be contacted as his phone remained switched off.However, senior SAD leader and former MLA NK Sharma said there had been some misunderstanding among the rank and file of the party over the selection of candidates. He said Chandumajra was trying to personally contact 28 leaders, including district Youth Akali Dal president Parvinder Singh Sohana and hoped that the issue would be resolved soon as these leaders had been party loyalists for the past so many years.After the expulsion of former Mayor Kulwant Singh from the party, 28 SAD leaders, including office-bearers and former councillors, tendered their resignation yesterday. They had announced that they would contest the municipal elections under the banner of the Azad Group, led by the former Mayor.Former councillor and president of the women cell, Mohali, Kuldeep Kaur Kang, who had also resigned from the party, met SAD president Sukhbir Singh Badal today and apprised him of the situation. She said she apprised him of the grievances of the party cadre in Mohali regarding the candidates declared by the committee, headed by Chandumajra. She said Badal demanded the list from her and assured her that he would look into the matter.Meanwhile, former Mayor Kulwant Singh said they would hold a meeting soon to announce the candidates for the Azad Group. He said the SAD leaders who had resigned had decided to contest the elections as Independents in the MC elections, schedule for February 14. He said they had opened their election office in Sector 78 and were gearing up for the elections.In the 2015 elections, Kulwant had led the Azad Group (Independents) and won 10 seats. With the support of the Congress, he was elected the Mayor. Later, in 2017, he joined the SAD. The five-year term of the House ended on April 26 last year. Last week, the SAD had officially declared a list of 28 candidates (all of whom were former councillors) for the elections, but on January 11, 22 of them sided with Kulwant.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/sad-bid-to-woo-back-rebels-200340
19-01-2021||Zirakpur||Hotelier ends life, names Baltana cop in suicide note||A hotel owner in Zirakpur, who was also a local BJP leader, reportedly committed suicide by hanging himself here today.The deceased has been identified as Deepak Kumar (43), an income tax lawyer. He is survived by his wife and two children.In a two-page suicide note found on the deceased, he alleged that six persons, including Baltana police station in-charge Kulwant Singh, were blackmailing him and he was taking the extreme step out of frustration.Sources said Deepak committed suicide at his friend’s office in Preet Colony today. The members of his family said the deceased left his home yesterday and his mobile phone was switched off.The family of the deceased held a protest against the cop at the police station.In the suicide note, Deepak alleged that his partners in the hotel business took away his cheque book, stole Rs6.5 lakh from his account and fraudulently issued cheques that bounced later.Zirakpur SHO Omkar Singh Brar said: “The statements of the kin of the deceased were being recorded. The police will investigate the matter and necessary action would be taken.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/hotelier-ends-life-names-baltana-cop-in-suicide-note-200341
19-01-2021||Chandigarh||3 DSPs transferred to Delhi from Chandigarh||Three DANIPS-cadre DSPs posted in Chandigarh were today transferred by the Ministry of Home Affairs to Delhi. Meanwhile, three officers have also been transferred from Delhi to Chandigarh.Sukhraj Katewa, who was posted as the DSP (EOW), Rajiv Kumar Ambasta, who was posted as the DSP (Crime and Headquarters) and Krishan Kumar, who was posted as the DSP (Central) have been transferred to Delhi.The three officers who will be joining the UT police on deputation are Jabsir Singh, Niyati Mittal and Rajnish. All of them are 2011-batch officers. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/3-dsps-transferred-to-delhi-from-chandigarh-200342
19-01-2021||Chandigarh||Park or a mini-pool?||Water has been accumulated at a park in Sector 30-A for the past three days, but the authorities have failed to pay heed to it. Besides being an eyesore, it has also become a breeding ground for mosquitoes and other insects, giving a tough time to the visitors.“I come here for a morning walk daily. I am surprised to see that no gardener or official has done anything about the stagnant water,” said Narender Kumar, a resident. Because of the accumulated water, a swing has also become inaccessible.Officials said apparently, a tertiary water pipe had been broken. “We will soon get the issue resolved,” said an official of the Horticulture Department.A similar problem was earlier reported from a Sector 19 park and the officials concerned took several days to get the issue fixed.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/park-or-a-mini-pool-200349
19-01-2021||Panchkula||Poultry farms in 3 villages declared flu-affected zones||The district administration today issued an order declaring the poultry farms located in three villages of the district as avian influenza-affected zones under the Prevention and Control of Animal Infection and Infectious Diseases Act, 2009.Deputy Commissioner Mukesh Kumar Ahuja stated the poultry farms affected with the avian influenza were in Khedi, Dandlawar and Ganauli villages of the district. The poultry farms falling within a kilometre radius of these poultry farms had also been included in the affected zones, he said.According to the Deputy Commissioner’s directions, out of 97 poultry farms in the district, poultry farms of 22 villages falling within a radius of one to 10 kilometres have been included in the alert and surveillance zone. The villages include Barwala, Jalauli, Alipur, Naggal, Golpura, Bagwala, Bagwali, Natwal, Kakrali, Raipur, alias Sundarpur, Sultanpur and Plasra.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/poultry-farms-in-3-villages-declared-flu-affected-zones-200375
19-01-2021||Chandigarh||Nine more birds found dead in Chandigarh||Nine more birds were found dead in different areas of the city today. Debendra Dalai, Chief Conservator of Forests, UT, said seven crows, an owl and a pigeon were found dead in the city.However, all 21 samples of dead birds sent to the Regional Disease Diagnostic Laboratory (RDDL), Jalandhar, so far had tested negative for avian influenza, he said.Dr Kanwarjit Singh, Deputy Director, Animal Husbandry, UT, said they had started collecting samples of poultry and other birds from different areas of the city and these would be sent to the RDDL for the bird flu test.He, however, said they had decided to send the routine samples on the 5th and 20th of every month. Surveillance had been increased in the city in the wake of the outbreak of bird flu in the Barwala area of Panchkula.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/nine-more-birds-found-dead-in-chandigarh-200376
19-01-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh dogged by canines, doubts over MC’s sterilisation claims||While the Municipal Corporation claims to have sterilised about 2,000 dogs in the past four months, packs of canines in various localities have raised eyebrows over the claim of the civic body.According to the MC statistics, the corporation restarted its sterilisation drive in September last year through a private agency. The programme first started in 2015 in the city and till now, they claim to have operated on 17,000 dogs.However, residents do not see any progress at the ground level. “If it is true, all dogs should be sterilised in another six months. In our locality, the stray dog menace has never been curtailed. We fear moving out of our houses,” said RK Garg, president of a city-based senior citizens’ association.Echoing similar views, Pulkit Sharma, general secretary, Residents Welfare Association, Sector 35, said: “The number of dogs has only been increasing in our locality. We have never seen any MC vehicle take dogs for sterilisation. Only when we complain, they swing into action.”Taranjit Singh, a regular walker at Sukhna Lake, shared: “There are a large number of dogs at Sukhna Lake. They keep following while people jog or walk there. The MC must carry out a sterilisation drive at least around the lake and Rock Garden.”In a random check, the Tribune correspondent saw about 10-12 dogs in streets of Sector 29, 30, 45 and others.“We have lodged complaints with the MC several times, but things have not improved,” said a Sector 30 resident. Around 25-35 cases of dog bite are reported from the city on a daily basis.An MC official, who looks after the sterilisation drive, said: “We are supposed to contain the dog population not finish it. Our vehicles visit different areas and wherever we find unoperated dogs, we pick them up for sterilisation. We drop them back at the same place after the operation as per the law. We do not sterilise dogs below six months of age and those found pregnant. We have a monthly target of sterilising 100-150 dogs, but we are able to operate upon 450-500 dogs a month.”Dr Amrit Warring, Municipal Officer of Health (MOH), said: “We are sincerely making efforts, but it takes time to break their cycle. It will take some months for the outcome to be apparent. We have witnessed that the aggressiveness in the dog bites cases has reduced.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-dogged-by-canines-doubts-over-mcs-sterilisation-claims-200377
19-01-2021||Mohali||34 fresh cases in Mohali dist||The district reported 34 fresh cases of Covid during the past 24 hours, taking the tally to 19,053. No death due to the disease was reported, while 54 more patients recovered from the virus.Among the new cases, 28 were reported from Mohali (urban), three from Dhakoli, two from Gharuan and one from Kurali. Of the 19,053 cases reported from the district so far, 17,889 patients have been cured. There are now 810 active cases, while 354 persons have succumbed to the disease.Chandigarh reports 27 casesChandigarh: The city on Monday reported 27 fresh cases of Covid, taking the tally to 20,564 and the toll to 330. A total of 53 more patients recovered from the disease in the past 24 hours. TNSPanchkula sees one deathPanchkula: The district witnessed a fatality due to Covid-19 in the past 24 hours, taking the toll to 146. Nine fresh Covid cases were reported on Monday, taking the tally to 10,358. Civil Surgeon Jasjit Kaur said the deceased was a 74-year-old woman from Sector 15. There are 180 active cases in the district now. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/34-fresh-cases-in-mohali-dist-200378
19-01-2021||Chandigarh||High Court notice to Chandigarh Admn on plea over replacing cycle carts with vehicles||The Punjab and Haryana High Court has put on notice the UT Administration, the Mayor and other respondents on a petition questioning the policy for replacement of cycle carts with motorised door-to-door garbage collectionIn the petition, Kuldeep and 40 other petitioners engaged in the work of garbage collection contended through counsel Harmanjit Singh Sethi and APS Shergill that the Chandigarh municipal corporation drew its powers from the Punjab Municipal Corporation Act of 1978. It endowed power to the Municipal Commissioner to provide for vehicles or other suitable means for removal of rubbish.‘Civic body has no power to do so’“Now, the established policy has been whimsically amended by the Municipal Corporation, which does not even have the power to do so,” the Bench of Chief Justice Ravi Shanker Jha and Justice Arun Palli was told.The general practice was that the garbage collector would collect the garbage from various households and take it to a vantage point from where MC vehicles transported the waste to the dumping ground. “Now, the established policy has been whimsically amended by the municipal corporation, which does not even have the power to do so,” the Bench of Chief Justice Ravi Shanker Jha and Justice Arun Palli was told.It was submitted that MC General House and the UT Administration lacked power to amend Central rules as they did not have the power to legislate. It rests with Parliament in case of Chandigarh as it is a union territory.It was added that the policy was to be enforced without hearing or involving the stakeholders in the deliberation process or without even conducting a public hearing which was necessary under Article 14. It was in complete defiance of their basic fundamental rights.It would adversely affect their livelihood, which was an integral part of their fundamental right to life contained in Article 21 of the Constitution. The petitioners also sought directions for staying and restraining the respondent from illegally disbanding and suspending the process and preventing the garbage collectors in Chandigarh from carrying out their work, which was the only means of employment and source of income for them in these economically challenging times of Covid.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/high-court-notice-to-chandigarh-admn-on-plea-over-replacing-cycle-carts-with-vehicles-200379
19-01-2021||Chandigarh||Power tussle — COA active after lying low for four years||A day after the president of the Chandigarh Olympic Association (COA) shot off a letter to rebuff the general secretary’s call for conducting the annual general meeting and elections, sources maintained that the House is now focusing on compiling the minutes of the previous meeting.A settlement on the cards?Sources also claimed that after the rift came wide open in public, stakeholders are also trying to reach a settlement. “Considering Sodhi’s status, the ongoing revolt is likely to come down to a settlement. He even confirmed to fight the president’s election in the media. Now, stepping back would be a matter of ego. In the past decade, the COA had done nothing but politics. So, everyone keeps secrets of this family,” said another source.According to the sources, the COA president, Amarinder Singh Bazaz, is now working on presenting the minutes of the last meeting, to present them before the general House and proceed with the process of conducting next elections.“The minutes of the last meeting of the general House are important to take future decisions. The minutes will be presented to the House before taking any final call on elections,” said a source.Not the first timeIt’s not for the first time that the COA elections have been postponed after a reported rift in the association. On September 23, 2016, Sodhi, who was then COA president, postponed the elections (scheduled for October 1, 2016) after getting recommendations by the then returning officer.The rift in the COS over electing a new House, which had been lying low for the past four years and has not conducted any state championship in the past 13 years, came wide open recently after Rana Gurmit Singh Sodhi, Punjab Sports Minister, who had remained COA president for 12 years and is at present life president of the body, saidto have agreed to contest the post of president. General secretary Maha Singh also announced that he would again contest the same post in the Sodhi’s team. He has been treasurer and secretary.“As per National Sports Development Code (NSDC), Sodhi cannot contest the top post. Though, the general secretary is believed to have got a letter from the IOA chief confirming that they don’t follow the NSDC. But in the past, the COA had followed it. So, they cannot just pick and implement the NSDC as per their requirements,” said the source.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/power-tussle-%E2%80%94-coa-active-after-lying-low-for-four-years-200380
19-01-2021||Chandigarh||ABVP seeks resumption of physical classes at university||The Akhil Bharatiya Vidyarthi Parishad (ABVP) staged a protest on the Panjab University campus demanding resumption of educational activities at the university. The protesters submitted a memorandum to the Vice-Chancellor.The ABVP have also demanded easing 75% attendance criteria as they claimed that there is a network problem in many places and some students didn’t have smart phones.Its president, Paras Ratan, said despite their memorandum, no cognisance was taken to open the campus or library. Hrishika Raj, secretary, said commercial activity had started in Chandigarh, so why Panjab University was not being reopened.After the protest, the Dean, Student Welfare, assured the protesters that no student would be detained on the basis of attendance, and it was expected thateducational activities would start at the university after January 31, under the new UGC guidelines.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/abvp-seeks-resumption-of-physical-classes-at-university-200381
19-01-2021||Chandigarh||Don’t force students, says Punjab Govt||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/dont-force-students-says-punjab-govt-200382
19-01-2021||Our CorrespondentFatehgarh Sahib||Oppn parties cry foul over final voter lists||All opposition parties have shown resentment against final voter lists of the Sirhind-Fatehgarh Sahib Municipal Council (MC), issued by the Election Commission, while alleging that these had many irregularities.Parties said votes of residents were shifted to different wards in convenience with the ruling party.AllegationsIt has been alleged that votes of family members of aspiring candidates have been divided into different wards just to prevent them from contesting in their own wards.A delegation of the opposition parties, including the SAD (B), the AAP and the BJP, submitted a memorandum to the Returning Officer-cum-Administrator of the MC today. They also sent mails to the Election Commission and the higher authorities.While talking to mediapersons activists alleged that votes of residents supporting the opposition parties were bifurcated in different wards. Even votes of family members of aspiring candidates were divided in different wards just to refrain them from contesting in their own wards, party activists added.Opposition leaders were not provided voter lists as per the Election Commission, said party activists. Rather leaders were handed over voter lists after the announcement of election so that no one could file objections, party activists added.“We urge the Election Commission to take immediate action in this regard and give directions to officials concerned to re-issue correct and valid voter lists,” said party activists.When contacted, SDM Sanjiv Sharma said there might be minor irregularities and all issues would be resolved.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/oppn-parties-cry-foul-over-final-voter-lists-200389
19-01-2021||Panchkula||Panchkula sees only 10% vaccination on Day 2||The Panchkula district witnessed lowest vaccination rate as only 10 per cent health workers came forward for inoculation against the target of 150 set by the health authorities.According to data released by the Haryana Health Department only 16 health workers received Covishield vaccine at the three centres – Alchemist Hospital, Civil Dispensary, Sector 4, and Community Health Centre (CHC), Raipur Rani, – today, the second day of the vaccination programme.On the first day, 266 health workers got vaccinated at the three centres set up the health authorities in the district. Senior state and district-level Health Department officials, including Director General (Health) Dr SB Kamboj, Additional Director General (Health) Dr Veena Singh, State Immunisation Officer, NHM, Dr Virender Ahlawat, and district Covid nodal officers Dr Rajiv Narwal, Dr Mankeerat Kaur and Dr Meenu Sasan, also took the Covishield dose in order to dispel doubts in the minds of people and instil confidence about the efficacy of the vaccine.Pertinently in the first phase, the Panchkula Heath Department has identified around 9,000 healthcare and frontline workers, including Army personnel from Chandimandir Cantonment.So far, Panchkula has received 9,000 doses, which would meet only 50 per cent requirement.Civil Surgeon Dr Jasjit Kaur said today only one session was held and that too for GH-6 and NHM employees. “I have talked to health facility in-charges to motivate beneficiaries and ensure vaccination,” she added. “Tomorrow, I will talk to officials at sites and Deputy Civil Surgeons deployed for vaccination for motivating health workers. They have been asked to supervise each site for better results,” she said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/panchkula-sees-only-10-vaccination-on-day-2-200390
19-01-2021||Chandigarh||Drive to resume at 4 sites in City Beautiful today||Covid-19 vaccination will resume from tomorrow at four sites – GMSH-16, two sites of GMCH-32 and Civil Hospital, Sector 45 – in the city.Co-WIN portal was slow even on Monday prompting the health authorities to send bulk messages to the beneficiaries. This manual practice will continue till the problem is resolved.The vaccination drive will be held four days a week. The vaccination sessions in the city will be held on every Tuesday, Thursday, Friday and Saturday.Meanwhile, there will be no vaccination drive at the PGI tomorrow as it is expected to receive the consignment of vaccine from the Government of India. The institute is expected to receive 11,500 doses of Covishield on Tuesday.Earlier, the Chandigarh Administration had given 1,000 doses to the PGI out of its stock.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/drive-to-resume-at-4-sites-in-city-beautiful-today-200391
19-01-2021||Chandigarh||Cyclothon promotes road safety||The Chandigarh Traffic Police today inaugurated 32nd National Road Safety Week-2021 on the theme, “Sadak Suraksha Jeevan Raksha”, by organising a cyclothon at Sukhna Lake. To promote cycle tracks, the cyclist drove through cycle tracks.Cops, 150 others take part in eventThe cyclothon was flagged off by Omvir Singh, UT DIG, who was the chief guest on the occasion. Police officials, along with around 150 cyclists from Cycle Giri and other cycle groups, participated in the event.The cyclothon was flagged off by Omvir Singh, UT DIG, who was the chief guest on the occasion. Police officials, along with around 150 cyclists from Cycle Giri and other cycle groups, participated in the event.A road safety pledge was also undertaken by the participants for obeying traffic rules and self-contribution towards making the roads safer.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/cyclothon-promotes-road-safety-200392
19-01-2021||Lalru||2 arrested with revolvers, 30 rounds of ammunition||The police have arrested two Saharanpur-based suspects involved in various thefts in the region and recovered two revolvers and 30 rounds of live ammunition from their possession.One of the suspects, Anil, alias Sanju, was arrested with a revolver, made in the USA, 10 rounds of live ammunition and a bicycle. Another suspect, Rajdeep, alias Bunty, was arrested with 20 rounds of live ammunition and a revolver.Further investigation underwayA case was registered against the duo under Sections 25, 54 and 59 of the Arms Act at the Lalru police station on January 13. The suspects have been remanded in police custody and further investigation is underway.The duo was nabbed at a police picket when they were coming from the Ambala side on a bicycle around 11:30 am on January 13, the police claimed.A case was registered against the duo under Sections 25, 54 and 59 of the Arms Act at the Lalru police station on January 13. The suspects have been remanded in police custody and further investigation is on in the matter.During investigation, it came to light that a case was already registered against Anil for stealing a revolver at the Phase 8 police station in Mohali in January 2018. The duo was returning to UP after committing several thefts.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/2-arrested-with-revolvers-30-rounds-of-ammunition-200418
19-01-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab FC to take on Churchill Brothers today||RoundGlass Punjab FC (RGPFC) is all set to take on table toppers Churchill Brothers FC in its next I League encounter at the Salt Lake Stadium in Kolkata tomorrow.The side has registered one win and one defeat, so far, to grab three points from its two matches.Head coach Curtis Fleming maintained that Churchill Brothers is one of the toughest opponents of the I League.“Every game is of 90 minutes and every time we learn from our mistakes. Our next game will be against Churchill and it’s going to be a difficult one for us. We took the positives and negatives from the Gokulam game and used that for our preparation for the game against Churchill,” said Fleming. In its last match, the RGPFC went down to Gokulam despite leading by three goals.“Both their (Churchill)’s foreign forwards are good to win games for them. They showed this against Arrows the other day. They played a hard-fought draw against Mohammedan, but in the end, it was a good result for them. Eventually, we have to be ready to face quality attacks every week, but we know that our squad’s quality is a concern for other teams as well,” said Fleming.Some RGPFC players have been injured. The gaffer said: “We have a couple of injury worries but Bikramjit is doing well. He is back in training. Sumeet too is not far from gaining full fitness. Jiten has gone for a scan and I hope he will be available soon. Ashish Jha and Denzil, too, are not yet fit, but we just can’t mourn about the injuries. These are part of the game.”Midfielder Sanju Pradhan, one of the most experienced players of the side, said: “We are prepared for the Churchill challenge. We have learned from our mistakes and are ready for the next game. We know that Churchill is a quality and experienced side, but we are ready for the task,” said Pradhan.Talking about the mood after the disappointing defeat against Gokulam, Pradhan said: “We are very positive. We have great management and a thoroughly professional coaching team. Our gaffer did a great job motivating every one of us. We are ready to give more than 100 per cent against Churchill.” A win against Churchill will take the RGPFC to the top of the points table.3 new players to be signedSources maintained that the RGPFC will sign three new players in the coming days. Among the three, two are Indian players from the ISL, while one is a famous international defender.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/punjab-fc-to-take-on-churchill-brothers-today-200419
19-01-2021||Chandigarh||2 thieves nailed, 11 vehicles recovered||Two vehicle thieves have been arrested by the local police and 11 vehicles — three cars and eight two-wheelers — have been recovered from them.A team, led by Inspector Rajiv Kumar, SHO of the Sector 34 police station, nabbed the suspects, Sahil, alias Aaseem (30), a resident of Raipur Khurd village, and Tejpal (24), a resident of Mani Majra.The police said Sahil was arrested at a naka in Sector 32 while riding a Maruti Zen, which was stolen from Mauli Jagran in October last year. The suspect had affixed a fake number on the car.Tejpal was nabbed while riding a Palio car with a fake number, which was stolen from Mauli Jagran on January 16. The police said the interrogation of the suspects led to the recovery of nine vehicles — eight two-wheelers and an Indigo.The police have registered cases against both suspects at the Sector 34 police station. The police said Sahil had a criminal past. He had two cases of theft registered against him at the Mani Majra police station.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/2-thieves-nailed-11-vehicles-recovered-200420
19-01-2021||Chandigarh||Four juveniles among six  held for thefts||Four juveniles among six have been arrested for alleged thefts at the Industrial Area. With their arrest, three cases have been solved.A team from the Sector 31 police station laid a naka near Sector 47 yesterday and nabbed the suspects — Vikas, alias Dathla, and three juveniles — while carrying four bags of brass, two laptops and six pairs of shoes.The police said the suspects revealed that they had stolen these items from the Industrial Area, Phase II.On the disclosure by Vikas, the police today arrested two more suspects — Ashu, alias Paratha, and a juvenile — from near the Sector 31 petrol pump. The police recovered a bag containing brass, four laptops and 12 pairs of shoes from them.The police said the suspects were operating a gang — “Tinda gang” — for the past two years and were involved in theft and burglary incidents in the Industrial Area, Phase II. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/four-juveniles-among-six-held-for-thefts-200421
19-01-2021||Mohali||Farmers’ tractor rally stopped from entering Chandigarh||Farmers’ tractor rally, which started from Mohali, was stopped from entering Chandigarh and proceed towards Sector 17 by the UT Police today.Hundreds of farmers on tractors and harvester combines were to pass through Sector 17, but large number of policemen and paramilitary force deployed at the Mullapur barrier did not allow them to enter Chandigarh.However, due to mutual understanding between the police and farmer representatives the tractor march was later allowed to pass through Sarangpur, Dhanas, Sectors 38 and 39 and re-enter Mohali.Farm labourers, youth, elderly and children on tractors and harvester combines participated in the rally. The youngsters said they would hold a tractor and harvester combine march on Republic Day in Delhi.Lakhveer Singh, a protester, said three farm laws passed by the Central Government favoured corporate houses, which will finish the farming community.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/farmers-tractor-rally-stopped-from-entering-chandigarh-200422
19-01-2021||Chandigarh||Hookah ban goes up in smoke||NSUI protests paper leakPanchkula: Activists of the National Students Union of India (NSUI), a unit of the Congress, on Monday staged a protest at the Haryana Staff Selection Commission headquarters against the leak of the village secretary-level examination paper. The police arrested the activists, led by NSUI state president Divyanshu Budhiraja as they remained adamant on not ending the protest. Budhiraja urged the Haryana Government to replace the chairman and other members of the commission with immediate effect. He papers of about 30 examinations have leaked in the past few years. TNS2 nominated to Bar Council panelChandigarh: Nitin Rathour and Vinod Verma, both advocates, have been nominated as co-opted members of the Discipline and Vigilance Committee of the Bar Council of Punjab and Haryana, Chandigarh. The appointment has been made by the Chairman of the Bar Council. Both advocates are the members of the District Bar Association Chandigarh. TNSRajiv made panel memberChandigarh: Rajiv Sharma, secretary, Chandigarh Rowing Association, has been nominated as a member of the Talent Identification Zonal Committee for North Zone (Rowing) of the Khelo India identification programme. He will cover Chandigarh, Delhi, Uttar Pradesh, Punjab and Jammu & Kashmir. Sharma is a qualified national umpire from Chandigarh. TNSCricket tourney from January 24Chandigarh: The One India Cricket Cup T20 Cricket Tournament will start from January 24 in Chandigarh. Only registered bodies, companies, and institutions are allowed to participate in the tournament. TNSBritish Club win netball meetChandigarh: British Club defeated Sacred Heart Club 18-14 to win the Junior State Netball Championship for Girls at SGGS College, Sector 26, here on Monday. In boys’ final, Chandigarh Club defeated DAV Sports Club 12-10. TNSAkamjot bags gold in skatingMohali: Nine-year-old Akamjot bagged gold medals in the two-day inter-state skating championship that concluded on January 17. Akamjot, a student of Rayat Bahra International School, Mohali, bagged gold in Rink 1, Rink 2 and in Road lap categories. Hailing from Kharar, Akamjot started skating at the age of 6 years. Till date, he has won 14 gold, two silver and two bronze medals in inter-school, inter-district and inter-state categories. He gave the credit of his success to his grandfather Gurcharan Singh Saini and his coach Amanvir Singh. TNSCity football Academy winChandigarh: Chandigarh Football Academy (CFA) defeated Doon Academy 3-1 to win the India Khelo Football IKF Tournament, which concluded at the Sports Complex in Sector 42 here on Sunday. Earlier, in the semifinals, Doon Academy defeated Indian Cheetah 2-1 and CFA lads drubbed Awesome FC 5-0. TNSMax temp in city rises to 22.6°CChandigarh: Due to a clear sky on Monday, the maximum temperature rose to 22.6°C, one degree above normal. The maximum temperature on Sunday was 19.2°C. The minimum temperature fell to 7.6°C, two degrees above normal. It was 8.3°C on Sunday. The sky is expected to be clear for the next few days. Shallow to moderate fog is likely to continue. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/hookah-ban-goes-up-in-smoke-200423
