21-01-2021||Chandigarh||16 new Covid cases in Chandigarh, 1 death||Chandigarh on Thursday reported 16 new cases of coronavirus, raising the infection tally to 20,639, according to a medical bulletin.The Union Territory also recorded a death of a 71-year-old man which pushed its fatality count to 331, it added.There are 146 active cases as of now in the UT, as per the bulletin.As many as 40 patients were discharged on Thursday after they recovered from the infection, taking the number of cured persons to 20,162, it stated.A total of 2,04,305 samples have been taken for coronavirus testing so far and of them, 1,82,724 tested negative while reports of 74 samples are awaited, as per the bulletin. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/16-new-covid-cases-in-chandigarh-1-death-201713
21-01-2021||Chandigarh||World's youngest large brain tumour patient operated on in Chandigarh||Doctors at the Postgraduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER) here have created history by operating on the world's youngest large brain tumour patient that was removed through the nose, it was announced on Thursday.The youngest child reported till date to have undergone endoscopic surgery through the nose for removal of such a tumour was two years old, operated on in 2019 in Stanford in the US, said a hospital press release..A team of endoscopic skull base surgeons, Dhandapani S.S. and Sushant, both of the Department of Neurosurgery, and Rijuneeta from the Department of ENT, operated upon the 16-month-old girl hailing from Uttarakhand.She had been referred to the PGIMER with loss of vision.According to the doctors, the child was normal and playful following visual stimuli a few months back. For the past 20 days, the mother noticed that the child was not following anything shown to her. The child's MRI revealed a calcified brain tumour at the base of the skull suggestive of craniopharyngioma of three cm size, large for a child of one year, close to critical neural structures such as optic nerves and hypothalamus.The tumours are usually operated on through open surgery, and the remaining part is treated with radiation therapy. Over the past few years, such tumours are being removed through the nose endoscopically by neurosurgeons teaming with ENT surgeons among patients older than six years.However, endoscopic removal through the nose is highly challenging in small children because of small nostrils, immature bones at the skull base, and proximity to crucial blood vessels.Despite the enormous challenge, Dhandapani chose the endonasal corridor, as the skull opening and brain retraction are avoided if operated through the nose.The team studied the child elaborately using CT angiography navigation and planned for endoscopy. A thin high definition endoscope, micro-instruments, and laryngeal coblator were used during the initial steps.Reaching up to the tumour was difficult, as the bones and sinuses were immature. The typical air sinus, which usually gives a corridor to reach up to the tumour base, was absent in this child.The nasal stage was performed by ENT surgeon Rijuneeta, while the skull base part was completed by Dhandapani and Sushant.Extensive drilling of the immature bones with a diamond drill was carried out using computer navigation to create a tumour removal corridor.Doctors say the tumour was dissected from critical structures using angled endoscopes and removed through the nose despite very little working space.As endonasal endoscopic surgery of brain tumour can cause brain fluid leakage through the nose, the vascularized flap taken from inside the nose was used to seal the operative corridor along with fascia and glue.After a six-hour long surgery, the child was kept in the ICU and recovered very well. Ten days after the surgery, the child is doing great with improved vision and no complications, with a CT scan showing almost complete removal of the tumour.Though Dhandapani's team has previously removed even giant tumours through the nose, this youngest child in the world to undergo such advanced endoscopic surgery is a remarkable achievement in the history of paediatric neuroendoscopy, said the PGIMER. IANS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/worlds-youngest-large-brain-tumour-patient-operated-on-in-chandigarh-201702
21-01-2021||Chandigarh||53,000 poultry birds to be culled at two farms in Mohali||Around 53,000 birds of two poultry farms in Punjab’s Mohali are to be culled after some samples from there tested positive for avian flu, a senior official said on Thursday.The reports of samples taken from two poultry farms at Behra village in Dera Bassi in Mohali were received from the National Institute of High-Security Animal Diseases lab in Bhopal on Wednesday.“The culling of around 53,000 birds will either start today evening or tomorrow,” said VK Janjua, Additional Chief Secretary (Animal Husbandry and Dairy).As per the Government of India guidelines, the birds of poultry farms located within one km of an infected farm have to be culled.There was no other poultry farm other than these two within one km radius, an official said.The department has constituted 25 teams for the culling drive, he added.After culling, the poultry birds would be buried, he said.The samples taken from two poultry farms had tested positive for H5N8 strain on Wednesday.The samples from these poultry farms were sent to NIHSAD for confirmation on January 15 after the Northern Regional Disease Diagnostic Laboratory (NRDDL) in Jalandhar suspected them to be positive for bird flu.These two poultry farms are layer farms where birds are reared for eggs.Punjab had sounded an alert earlier this month after bird flu cases were reported from several states and Union territories in north India, including Haryana, Himachal Pradesh and Delhi. — PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/53-000-poultry-birds-to-be-culled-at-two-farms-in-mohali-201673
21-01-2021||Chandigarh||Minimum temperatures fall at many places in Punjab, Haryana||Cold weather conditions returned to Punjab and Haryana on Thursday as the minimum temperatures dropped slightly at many places in the two states after hovering above normal for the past few days, Meteorological Department officials here said.In Punjab, Amritsar recorded a low of 3.4 degrees Celsius, they said.Adampur and Pathankot, too, experienced a cold night at 3.5 degrees Celsius and 4.6 degrees Celsius.Faridkot, Bathinda, Gurdaspur and Halwara also braved the chill with a minimum temperature of 5.5, 5.8, 5.5 and 6.1 degrees Celsius, respectively.Chandigarh recorded a low of 7.2 degrees Celsius.In Haryana, Narnaul recorded a low of 4.6 degrees Celsius.Hisar registered a low of 6.7 degrees Celsius while Bhiwani recorded a minimum temperature of 6.2 degrees Celsius.Rohtak, Ambala and Karnal recorded a minimum temperature of 7.6, 7.9 and 8 degrees Celsius. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/minimum-temperatures-fall-at-many-places-in-punjab-haryana-201635
21-01-2021||Tribune News Sevice||110 get Covid vaccine in Mohali||Mohali, January 20As many as 110 medical staff were given the Covid vaccine at the Sri Guru Harkrishan Sahib Charitable Hospital in Mohali.The vaccination programme was inaugurated by DPS Kharbanda, Director Sports and Youth Services. Adarsh Suri, Chief Administrator of the hospital, and Sukhdeep Singh, trustee, said: “The priority of the hospital management is the safety of people and we are always committed to providing high-quality facilities to residents,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/110-get-covid-vaccine-in-mohali-201252
21-01-2021||Mohali||Cashier robbed of Rs 2 lakh in Mohali||The Mohali District Petroleum Dealers Association has expressed concerns over the deteriorating law and order situation in the district, particularly the increasing incidents of crime at filling stations in the district.On January 18, Rs 2 lakh was looted from an employee of M/S Petro Junction on the Kharar-Landran highway by three motorcycle-borne youths in broad daylight. One of the robbers threw chilli powder in the eyes of cashier Vinod Kumar, who was going to a bank to deposit money around 1:45 pm, and robbed him of Rs 2 lakh.Passersby nabbed one of the robbers, Jaspinder Gir (25). The other suspects have been identified as Baljit Gir and Tarsem Puri of Patiala. Vinod was rushed to the Civil Hospital where he was discharged after treatment. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/cashier-robbed-of-rs-2-lakh-in-mohali-201282
21-01-2021||---||Retd Col duped of Rs 1.02L after OLX ad in Panchkula||Panchkula, January 20A retired Colonel allegedly lost Rs 1.02 lakh in an online fraud to a man claiming to be a BSF man.Col RK Shooran (retd), who lives at Amravati Enclave, told the police that he had placed an advertisement on OLX for selling a bicycle.In response, the victim received a call on his mobile number claiming to be a BSF man.To support his claim, the man also sent some documents and “identity proof” to the complainant. He said he was ready to pay Rs 3,000 for the bicycle and would make the payment through PayTm.“As he followed his instructions, the complainant lost Rs 1.02 lakh from his two bank accounts,” the FIR reads.A case has been registered under Sections 406 and 420 of the IPC at the Pinjore police station.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/retd-col-duped-of-rs-1-02l-after-olx-ad-in-panchkula-201283
21-01-2021||---||Chandigarh resident loses Rs 80K in online fraud||Panchkula, January 20A 28-year-old resident of Sector 19-B in Chandigarh lost Rs 80,000 within minutes after he searched for the customer care number of a courier company.According to and FIR filed at the Mansa Devi Complex police station, the complainant, identified as Anmol Gilhotra, was expecting a delivery from e-commerce website Flipkart when he became a victim of the online fraud.The complainant told the police that he got a message from the courier company, Blue Dart, that his order hasn’t been delivered.When he tried to contact the courier company’s purported number he found on Google, it was constantly busy.A few minutes later, he got a call back from the same number and the person on the line said his order was returned to them, hence it will cost him Rs 9 for another delivery attempt.“Following his instructions, the complainant opened the link shared on his number. Within minutes, Rs 80,000 got deducted from his bank account. When he tried to call on the same number, it was switched off,” the FIR reads.A case has been registered under Section 71 of the IT Act and 417 of the IPC against unidentified persons.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-resident-loses-rs-80k-in-online-fraud-201284
21-01-2021||---||Four members of Bishnoi gang held with weapons in Mohali||Mohali, January 20The police today claimed to have nabbed four associates of the Sampat Nehra-Lawrence Bishnoi gang with arms and ammunition.The suspects have been identified as Darshan Singh of Dera Bassi, Manish Kumar of Patiala and, Suraj and Bhagat Singh, both residents of Kurali. They were absconding in murder cases.The police have recovered three pistols, a gun and 17 rounds of ammunition from them. A case under Sections 399 and 402 of the IPC and 25, 54 and 59 of the Arms Act was registered against them at the Kurali City police station yesterday.Mohali SSP Satinder Singh said the Kurali police received a tip-off that a few members of the gang were active in the area and might commit some crime.The Kurali City SHO, along with a team, arrested the suspects with weapons. Darshan Singh was absconding in a murder case registered at the Civil Lines Bhiwani police station on November 1, 2017. He is a co-accused along with Deepak Tinu in this case. Manish Kumar was involved in a murder case registered at the Julka police station in Patiala district in 2016.Sampat Nehra and Lawrence Bishnoi are lodged in jail. The Bishnoi gang is involved in dacoities, murders and extortion in Punjab, Haryana, Rajasthan and Chandigarh.Meanwhile, the suspects told the police that they were ready to strike at the targets given to them by their jail inmates. Recently, they were involved in a firing incident reported at Malerkotla, said the police.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/four-members-of-bishnoi-gang-held-with-weapons-in-mohali-201262
21-01-2021||Sandeep Rana||Waste collection project takes hit in Chandigarh||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, January 20In a setback to the Chandigarh Municipal Corporation’s project of waste segregation and collection through its own vehicles, only one third of the waste collectors registered with it by January 15, the last date for registration.Lukewarm response to MC noticeAccording to the MC, it earlier served a last notice to the collectors asking them to register with the corporation to work as helper or driver with its 390 newly purchased vehicles. But, of a total of 1,500 collectors in the corporation records, only around 550 persons have registered so far.Sources said some of the registered collectors had not joined as drivers of the MC’s vehicles. They, along with others, are still collecting waste through the traditional rehris from door to door.The corporation had earlier said if the collectors and drivers did not register by January 15, the civic body would be forced to hire its own manpower. A faction of the waste collectors has been on protest outside the MC building for the past few days to press for collection of waste through cycle carts.The impasse between the civic body and the collectors has led to shortcomings in the implementation of the first phase of the project in Sectors 1-30.In many areas, carts continue to pick waste. At some places, both carts and two-bin vehicles are picking waste from the same area, leading to confusion among the residents.The civic body has already issued a notice that it will collect monthly garbage collection charges, not the private waste collectors picking waste through cycle carts.A senior MC officer said: “When the MC will collect charges for January next month, collectors will themselves join us as they will not get payment from residents.” The civic body may collect charges either through water bills or POS machines.Meanwhile, the Municipal Officer of Health (MOH), Dr Amrit Warring, said: “Even though the last date has passed, if any of the collectors wants to register with us, they can still do so.”Hitesh Puri, Chairman, CRAWFED, said: “Before launching the second phase of this project in the southern Sectors, the MC must fix issues with the collectors so that the residents do not face problems in door-to-door garbage collection.”Dalbir Rana, general secretary, Resident Welfare Association, Sector 19-C, said: “Many residents found rehri collectors better than two-bin vehicle teams as they pick waste from doorstep. Some do not appreciate the loud sound played outside their houses every morning by these vehicles. Spending crores on buying vehicles is not wise as these also add to air pollution.”The MC has plans to replace carts with two-bin vehicles in the whole city. These vehicles will shift garbage from houses to three waste recovery centres from where big trucks will take it to the waste-processing plant in Sector 25.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/waste-collection-project-takes-hit-in-chandigarh-201265
21-01-2021||Dushyant Singh Pundir||Chandigarh Administration mulls reducing collector rates||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, January 20The UT Administration is considering reducing the collector rates to make housing more affordable in the city. The issue will come up for discussion during a meeting of the Administrator’s Advisory Council likely to be held on February 10.The council advises the UT Administration on developmental issues and policy matters. Members of the council include MP Kirron Kher, former MPs Satya Pal Jain, Pawan Kumar Bansal and Harmohan Dhawan, the Mayor, the immediate ex-Mayor, the Director of PGI and other prominent persons.Administrator of UT VP Singh Badnore, Chairman of the council, had recently directed the Home Department to call a meeting of the council.Earlier, the meeting was to be held in April last year, but could not be held due to Covid.The UT Adviser, Manoj Parida, said various issues pending for a long would be taken up at the meeting of the council. The council could also discuss the reintroduction of the Apartment Act, which has been a long-pending demand of a section of society.Owing to the high rates of property, the Chandigarh Housing Board had last year shelved a group housing scheme launched in Sector 53. However, with a reduction in collector rates, the prices of houses could come down in the city.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-administration-mulls-reducing-collector-rates-201266
21-01-2021||---||Five arrested for extorting Rs 1.36 lakh from realtor in Zirakpur||Zirakpur, January 20The police have nabbed five persons for impersonating as mining department officials and extorting money from a Zirakpur-based developer for dumping earth from his GMADA-approved project to another. The suspects had been taking Rs 17,000 everyday from him for the past one week. They had extorted a total of Rs 1.36 lakh from Dhakoli-based realtor Daljit Singh.The police registered a case against the five suspects under Sections 384 and 506 of the IPC at the Zirakpur police station today. They have been identified as Shambhu, a resident of Mangu, Padiala resident Raman Kumar, Rajiv Kumar of Machlikalan, Narinder Singh of Hoshiarpur and Manoj Kumar of Kharar. They were produced before the Dera Bassi court that sent them to three-day police remand.The police said all suspects were involved with the mining mafia earlier and knew the modus operandi to extort money from developers.Zirakpur SHO Omkar Singh Brar said Daljit told them that he had a project, named Oxford, at Zirakpur from where excess earth was being shifted to another place legally. The suspects were extorting money from him since January 12 by posing as officials of the Mining Department. On Tuesday, when the suspects reached the site and asked for money, the police nabbed them.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/five-arrested-for-extorting-rs-1-36-lakh-from-realtor-in-zirakpur-201280
21-01-2021||---||Minerva Academy qualify for Punjab super league||Chandigarh, January 20Minerva Academy Football Club registered a 4-0 win over JCT in the ongoing Punjab Super League Second Division.Minerva lads made a good grip on the match and scored the first goal in the seventh minute.Subham Chetry delivered a low cross for Lalranchinna, who successfully put it over the goal line. The lead was soon doubled by Shreyas VG.Minerva Academy continued to dominate proceedings, but a glimmer of hope emerged for JCT as Suprodeep Hazra, who had already been booked, was penalised for another foul and the referee flashed a second yellow card in the 35th minute. Minerva entered the lemon break with a 2-0 lead and 10 men.In the second half, Nikhil Mali dispatched an unstoppable shot with his left foot to put the ball beyond the goalkeeper in a flash.The third goal came in the 75th minute. The last goal of the match was scored by Suraj Gurung, who substituted Shreyas.Minerva Academy Football Club qualified for the Punjab Super League with an unbeaten run and 10 points from four matches.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/minerva-academy-qualify-for-punjab-super-league-201281
21-01-2021||---||Philanthropist Onkar Chand dead||Chandigarh, January 20Philanthropist Onkar Chand, who headed the Servants of the People Society, Chandigarh branch, passed away at the age of 91 this morning. At a very young age, he got inspired by Vinoba Bhave and joined the Bhoodaan Movement. Later on, he was inducted into the Servants of the People Society, which was founded by Lala Lajpat Rai.He also represented the Chintpurni Assembly constituency in Himachal Pradesh.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/philanthropist-onkar-chand-dead-201260
21-01-2021||Ramkrishan Upadhyay||Shop at Elante penalised for not replacing faded jacket||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, January 20The District Consumer Disputes Redressal Commission, Chandigarh, has penalised a shop at the Elante mall for its failure to replace a jacket whose colour faded soon after it was sold to a consumer.The commission has directed the management of the shop to refund Rs3,700 to the complainant along with interest at the rate of 8 per cent per annum, besides pay Rs2,000 as compensation for mental agony and harassment and Rs1,000 as cost of litigation.Ashok Kumar, a Sector 29 resident, approached the commission after the shop failed to replace jacket he had bought with a new one. In the complaint filed before the commission Ashok stated that he purchased a T-shirt from M/s The Mandhana Retail Ventures Limited, Shop No. 23-A, Elante Mall, Industrial Area, Chandigarh, for Rs2,000, but found that it was not upto the mark.On being told the shop management was not ready to refund the amount, but agreed to replace the T-shirt with other articles. Accordingly, on November 13, 2019, Ashok purchased a jacket (Denim) from the shop for Rs3,700 and paid the remaining amount of Rs1,700 after adjustment of Rs2,000 spent earlier on buying T-shirt.When his son went to a party wearing jacket on November 22, 2019, he found that its colour has faded, said Ashok. He approached shop with the jacket and explained its defect to the management on November 24, 2019. The shop management assured to replace the jacket within 10 days, but lingered on the matter and finally failed to do so. The complainant alleged deficiency in service and unfair trade practice on the part of the shop management and sought compensation. On the other hand the shop management contested the complaint and denied all allegations.After hearing arguments the commission found complaint true and directed the shop management to refund Rs3,700 to complainant along with interest at the rate of 8 per cent per annum. The panel also directed the shop management to pay Rs2,000 to complainant as compensation for causing mental agony and harassment and Rs1,000 as the cost of litigation.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/shop-at-elante-penalised-for-not-replacing-faded-jacket-201251
21-01-2021||Chandigarh||Faith, food, farmers at Nada Sahib during Gurpurb celebrations||The pandemic failed to dampen Gurpurab celebrations of Guru Gobind Singh, the tenth Sikh master, as crowd thronged city gurdwaras and makeshift community kitchens on Wednesday.Jagwinder Singh, DevoteeWe host a langar every year on Guru Gobind Singh’s Parkash Utsav. This is the fourth year and I’ve put up flags in support of farmers this time. No farmers, no food.Harbhajan Singh, Akhand paathi, at Nada Sahib said, “The Prakash Utsav is being celebrated with prayers and hymns. We had eight ceremonies of Akahand Path bhog here.”A devotee at gurdwara, Angad Singh, a farmer by profession, said, “I visit this gurdwara almost every Gurpurab. I am praying for the ‘sarbat da bhala’ and for my brother farmers at Singhu and Tikri borders.”A splash of fireworks painted the dull grey winter sky and flags of farmer protests in green, white, saffron, yellow and red dotted roadside shops near gurdwara during gurpurab.A kilometre away from the gurdwara, Jagwinder Singh, along with four of his friends organised a bread-pakora and tea langar in a tent. Flags dotted his makeshift tent too. “We host a langar every year on Guru Gobind Singh ji’s parkash utsav. This is the fourth year and I’ve put up flags in support of farmers this time. No farmers, no food,” he said. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/faith-food-farmers-at-nada-sahib-during-gurpurb-celebrations-201253
21-01-2021||---||Kulwant Singh part of Balbir Singh Sidhu’s B team: SAD||Mohali, January 20The Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) today said former Mohali Mayor Kulwant Singh had backstabbed his own constituents to save his business empire and was essentially part of the B team of Health Minister Balbir Singh Sidhu.Urging the people to snub Kulwant and his team members, the SAD said there were reports that he had received threats from the Congress government that in case he did not split the SAD and contest the municipal poll as an independent his business would be destabilised.“In the last municipal elections, Kulwant stood as an independent to help the Congress. This time also he has taken on the responsibility to help the most tainted minister in Capt Amarinder Singh’s Cabinet, who is responsible for various scams, including that of drug de-addiction tablets as well as gloves and protective kits for Covid-19 warriors,” the SAD added.“Kulwant did not even think twice before joining hands with someone, who is responsible for usurping prime land near the city in the name of family trusts,” the SAD said.“Congressman Balbir Sidhu should not have any illusions. The people of Mohali realise that the Congress has done nothing for them in the last four years. All development has taken place in Mohali due to efforts of Sukhbir Badal. An international airport has come up and four-lane inter connectivity has been achieved in Mohali during the SAD led government,” the SAD added.Stating that Mohali faced discrimination during the Congress rule, SAD said Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh did not add a single new project to the city during the last four years. “The Chief Minister should tell on what grounds his party is seeking votes in Mohali?” the SAD added while appealing to people to reject the Congress and its B team, including the Kulwant Singh group in the municipal polls.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/kulwant-singh-part-of-balbir-singh-sidhus-b-team-sad-201254
21-01-2021||---||Chandigarh girl wins 10 medals at Jodhpur National Law University||Chandigarh, January 20Local girl Molly Lakhanpal brought laurels to the city by winning 10 gold medals at the National Law University, Jodhpur. She won all medals while studying for the 2015-20 batch. She was presented medals at the university convocation, held recently.The medals she won, include Justice Chand Mal Lodha Memorial Gold Medal, Dr Ranjana M Massey Memorial Gold Medal, Late Gopal Mal Mehta Memorial Gold Medal, Mathur Amar-Laxmi Gold Medal, Late Pranita Mehta Gold Medal, Trilok Chand Mangilal Sancheti Gold Medal, Laxmi Devi Nrasinghdas Mundra Gold Medal, Prof Vedantam Seshaiah Shastri Gold Medal, Lakshmi Rama Shanker Pradhan Memorial Gold Medal and Prof YK Tiwari Memorial Gold Medal.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-girl-wins-10-medals-at-jodhpur-national-law-university-201256
21-01-2021||Mohali||Covid-19: 37 new cases, no death in Mohali||18 fresh cases in PanchkulaPanchkula: The district reported 18 fresh coronavirus cases on Wednesday, taking the tally to 10,401. The toll remained at 147. While 10,061 patients have recovered from the infectious disease so far, 193 cases are still active. The recovery rate stands at 96.73 per cent. TNS28 in city catch infectionChandigarh: The city on Wednesday reported 28 fresh cases of Covid, taking the UT case tally to 20,623 and the toll to 330. A total of 42 more patients recovered from the disease in the past 24 hours. TNSBurglars strike at grocery storeChandigarh: A theft was reported from a grocery store at New Indira Colony, Mani Majra. Complainant Ravi Kumar reported that an amout of Rs2,000 and cigarettes worth Rs2,000 were stolen after breaking into the store on the intervening night of January 17 and 18. The police have registered a case at the IT Park police station. TNSExpect a cloudy sky tomorrowChandigarh: After a clear sky for a few days, expect clouds on Friday and Saturday. According to the Meteorological Department, the weather will, however, be clear tomorrow. Moderate to dense fog is expected. The maximum temperature in the city today was 18.4°C, three degrees below normal, while the minimum temperature was 9.7°C, four degrees above normal. The temperatures are not expected to see much change in the coming days. TNSTele-registration at dental hospitalChandigarh: Dr Harvansh Singh Institute of Dental Sciences and Hospital, Panjab University, has started tele-registration. The hospital will be open from 9 am to 1 pm and 2 pm to 5 pm. Time of registration is from 9 am to 12 pm. Patients can register themselves on telephone nos. 0172-2534082 (Reception) and 0172-2534070 (Enquiry). Patients can request for the doctor concerned where procedures like RTPCR is required. No attendants will be allowed except one with a patient with disability and children. TNSRegistration must for hockey trialsChandigarh: According to the Hockey India guidelines, Hockey Chandigarh has made it mandatory for local players to register on the Hockey India portal to become eligible for participating in national championships. According to Anil Vohra, Secretary, Hockey Chandigarh, only registered players (all age categories) can appear for the selection trials. Those players, who have not registered on the portal, can register before January 31 at https://muportal.hockeyindia.org/player-registration-form. Officials can register at https://muportal.hockeyindia.org/pre_official_registration or they can contact the Hockey Chandigarh office. TNSPU releases admission scheduleChandigarh: Panjab University has released admission schedule for Swami Vivekananda Studies. Admission forms can be submitted online at vivekanandastudies@gmail.com till January 25. The online counselling/interview will be conducted and final merit list will be submitted to the DUI for approval on January 28. The merit list will be uploaded on January 29 followed by submission of fee from January 30 to February 2. The admission schedule is for certificate courses in yoga and meditation, elementary Sanskrit and Bhagavadgita and ancient Indian wisdom. TNSAnnual Alumni MeetChandigarh: The School of Communication Studies, Panjab University, in association with Public Relations Council of India (PRCI) Chandigarh chapter held online annual alumni meet. Renuka Salwan, national zonal head, PRCI, Dr Sumedha Singh, chairperson, School of Communication Studies, Charanjit Singh, senior vice-president of the national executive, PRCI, Vivek Atray, former IAS officer, and chairman, Chandigarh Chapter of the PRCI, Kanwar Sandhu, an eminent journalist and MLA from Kharar, were present on the occasion. Prof Jayant Pethkar, professor and vice-chairman, Chandigarh chapter, presented a vote of thanks. TNSVirtual meet for UIFT & VD alumniChandigarh: Nearly 70 alumni of the University Institute of Fashion Technology and Vocational Development (UIFT & VD) participated in the first of its kind virtual “Reconnect 2021” meet hosted by the institute. Two former students, Surbhi Singla, a model, who has walked the ramp for leading brands and fashion designers, and Anupreet Sidhu, who runs her fashion label ‘Sidhuji’, were awarded at the virtual meet. Manisha Dhiman, a budding entrepreneur, who has launched her own handicrafts brand, ‘Kalakari,’ was also a part of the Reconnect, wherein she shared her success story. TNSFaculty development programmeChandigarh: A seven-day online faculty development programme (FDP) on the theme “Effective communication in the digital era” organised by the HRDC, Panjab University, concluded here today. The course was attended by 36 participants representing 22 disciplines and eight states, including Himachal Pradesh, Punjab, Haryana, Karnataka, Assam, Rajasthan, Madhya Pradesh, Rajasthan and Chandigarh. Prof Nandita Singh, Department of Education, PU, was the keynote speaker and Prof SK Tomar, Director, HRDC, PU, was the chief guest on the occasion. Tomar spoke about the significance of effective communication. Dr Bhavneet Bhatti, course coordinator and Asst Prof, School of Communication Studies, presented the report of the FDP. She said 20 resource persons from various parts of the country and abroad conducted sessions on aspects of effective digital communications. Prof Jayanti Dutta, Deputy Director, HRDC, PU, spoke to participants about the challenges and advantages of online training programmes. TNSBritish Academy win netball meetChandigarh: British Academy recorded a 22-19 win over Panjab University Campus to win the Senior State Netball Championship for Women at Sri Guru Gobind Singh College, Sector 26, on Wednesday. Post Graduate Government College for Girls, Sector 11, claimed the third position by defeating Sector 42 College 20-11. In the men's category, Khalsa Alumni won the championship by defeating Spartans 19-17. Moti Ram Club defeated Chandigarh Club 16-14 to claim the third spot. TNSCity lads defeat Arunachal teamChandigarh: The city lads registered a seven-wicket win over Arunachal Pradesh in their last encounter of Syed Mustaq Ali Trophy, at Gurunanak College Ground, Chennai, on Tuesday. Chandigarh ended their tournament campaign on 18 points, two below group leader Bihar. Chandigarh bowlers restricted Arunachal Pradesh to 56/8 in 20 overs. Bipul Sharma claimed 3/5. In reply, the city lads achieved the target in 8 overs by scoring 62/3. Arslan Khan (37) and Manan Vohra (11) were the major scorers for the side. TNSNehal steers Academy to winMohali: Nehal Pajni scored 177 off 123 to help Gallant Cricket Academy, Panchkula, register an easy 144-run win over Royal Cricket Academy, Chandigarh, in the 1st Smt Krishna Devi Memorial U-23 Cricket Tournament. Batting first, Gallant Cricket Academy scored 393/2 in 40 overs. Akshdeep also scored 112 runs. Royal Cricket Academy were bowled out for 249 runs in 33.5 overs. Jashan Beniwal scored 102 runs. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/covid-19-37-new-cases-no-death-in-mohali-201285
21-01-2021||Sandeep Rana||Come February, hourly fee at all smart parking lots in Chandigarh||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, January 20Hourly parking rates are likely to be applicable at all parking lots across the city from February.The contract of 89 parking lots was given to two agencies in January last year. The Chandigarh Municipal Corporation had earlier allowed one of the agencies to charge visitors on an hourly basis at the parking lots in a phased manner. The other firm was not permitted to do so as smart features were not added to lots under it.KK Yadav, MC CommissionerThe riderAn MC team will inspect parking lots on January 31. If smart features have been added to the parking lots being managed by the firm concerned, it will be allowed to charge visitors on an hourly basis.According to MC Commissioner KK Yadav, an MC team will inspect the remaining lots on January 31. “If smart features have been added to the parking lots being managed by it, the firm will be allowed to charge the visitors on an hourly basis,” he said.Smart parking features include adequate parking attendants to manage vehicles, boom barriers, parking at designated places and proper display of information regarding the 10-minute free parking facility. However, the features are lacking at many parking spaces.A Sector 35-C store owner lamented: “Some of the street lights inside the parking lots are non-functional. Roads are full of potholes. Attendants are present only at exit and entry points, but do not manage vehicles inside the space. Whether you find parking space is not their problem. Two-wheelers and four-wheelers are not parked at their designated spaces.”RK Garg, president of a senior citizens’ body, has already asked the MC to make its contracts public. “The firms should not be allowed to charge on an hourly basis even in a phased manner till they add smart features to all parking lots,” he said.The charges Parking rates, except outside malls, for two-wheelers and four-wheelers are Rs5 and Rs10, respectively. It was approved in the MC House that after smart features are added to the parking lots, the rates will be doubled after the first four hours of parking. In the third slab, after 12 hours, the parking fee will be doubled again till 24 hours. There will be no charges for the first 10 minutes.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/come-february-hourly-fee-at-all-smart-parking-lots-in-chandigarh-201244
21-01-2021||Saurabh Malik||Can’t apply ‘no work, no pay’ if employee isn’t guilty, says High Court||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, January 20The Punjab and Haryana High Court has held that the principle of ‘no work, no pay’ was not applicable in the case of an employee restrained from discharging his duties in an illegal and arbitrary manner.The caseJustice Harsimran Singh Sethi also made it clear that a government employee, exonerated in the criminal and departmental proceedings, was entitled to service benefits for all intents and purposes for the out-of-job period.“If the employee is not held guilty either in criminal proceedings or in the departmental proceedings, the employee is to be treated in service for all intents and purposes even for the period he/she remained out of job so as to compensate him for the illegal acts of the department. The least compensation that can be given to the employee is granting him/her the benefits which he/she would have earned otherwise while in service. Therefore, the rule of ‘no work, no pay’ cannot be made applicable...”Elaborating, Justice Sethi asserted ‘no work, no pay’ would not be applicable in the case when the allegations against the employee have not been proved while investigating the FIR and in the departmental inquiry on the same allegations.The principle was applicable only where an employee knowingly and for reasons attributable to him did not discharge his duties. In case the employee was stopped in any manner and the act was ultimately found illegal and arbitrary, further prejudice could not be caused by declining benefits for period he was restrained in an illegal and arbitrary manner.Petitioner Raghubir Singh through counsel Ranjivan Singh had challenged the refusal to restore salary and promotion despite acquittal and exoneration. Ranjivan Singh had contended the petitioner was on the PCR duty when an FIR under the Prevention of Corruption Act was registered against him on December 17, 2012.He was dismissed from service on that very day without holding an inquiry, but the Mohali Special Court, vide judgment dated September 12, 2017, acquitted the petitioner.The DGP ordered his reinstatement and initiation of a departmental inquiry. The petitioner, accordingly, was allowed to join on October 15, 2018, but was granted pay he was drawing at the time of termination of his services in December 2012.He was exonerated in the departmental inquiry on February 18, 2019. However, his request for the restoration of the salary by way of annual increments and arrears for the period his services remained terminated and promotion was turned down.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/cant-apply-no-work-no-pay-if-employee-isnt-guilty-says-high-court-201245
21-01-2021||Amit Bathla||Day 4: 84% get jab in Panchkula||Tribune News ServicePanchkula, January 20With only 84 health workers turning up at Alchemist Hospital, the vaccination site, the health administration fell short to achieve the 100 per cent vaccination target for the fourth consecutive time.The authorities had a target of vaccinating 100 persons today. In view of the gazetted holiday to mark Guru Gobind Singh Jayanti, only one immunisation session was organised at the private hospital. There was no report of adverse events following immunisation (AEFI) at the site and 66 minor reactions have come to the fore till date.So far, only 797 healthcare workers have received the first dose of Covishield vaccine.As many as 6,219 — 3,541 government employees and 2,678 private professionals — are being prioritised in the first phase of the vaccination.The overall vaccination coverage stands at 64.7 per cent.If the vaccination drive continues at the current pace (almost 200 a day), it will take 30-odd days to cover over 6,200 targeted healthcare workers.The authorities said the number was less as many health officials were adopting a “wait and watch” approach before getting the vaccine. However, they said, the number would increase in the coming days.On the slow pace of vaccination, Immunisation Officer Meenu Sasan said they would increase the vaccination sites on Friday and motivate the beneficiaries. “Class IV employees are a bit reluctant. The media representation of the vaccination plays a greater role in motivating them to take the vaccine,” said Sasan.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/day-4-84-get-jab-in-panchkula-201246
21-01-2021||Chandigarh||PGI to use only one of five sites in Chandigarh||Keeping in view the low response from health workers for Covid-19 immunisation, the PGI has decided to continue the vaccination session at only one site till more volunteers come forward.Dr Surinder S Pandav, Professor of Ophthalmology, who chairs the internal vaccination committee of the institute, said, “So far, we have received only 1,500 doses of vaccine from the UT Administration, of which 218 have either been used or stored for a second dose. We are not able to open the remaining four sites due to shortage of doses and secondly due to vaccine hesitancy among health workers.”The PGI had earlier earmarked five sites with a daily target of 500 to inoculate at least 12,000 health workers. The drive will resume at the PGI tomorrow.The UT Administration gave 500 more doses to the institute today. Allocation from the 11,500 doses received on Tuesday is still awaited. The second vaccine consignment is believed to be for the PGI. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/pgi-to-use-only-one-of-five-sites-in-chandigarh-201247
21-01-2021||---||I like the way Shubman bhaiya plays, can’t wait to meet him, says little fan||Mohali, January 20A day after India scripted a historic win against Australia to lift the Border-Gavaskar Trophy, the euphoria around the win and one of its architects, Shubman Gill, refuses to die in his hometown.Jagmit Singh, Mohali resident‘They were our tenants’I have seen Shubman play from the very beginning when the family moved from Jalalabad. They were our tenants in a two-bedroom flat on the first floor. The father-son duo lived for cricket. They had a brown Fiat Uno car. He was eight years old then and a very sincere child. I must say his father, Lakhwinder, sacrificed a lot for his son’s career.With today being a holiday on account of Guru Gobind Singh’s birth anniversary, most of the grounds in and around Mohali were buzzing with frenetic cricketing activities. In some of the grounds, more than four teams were immersed in their respective matches, perhaps riding the success wave of the Indian team Down Under.Most of the budding cricketers were pleased with India’s new-found heroes, particularly Shubman Gill.In one such ground in Phase 9, The Tribune correspondent met with a mother-son duo who had an interesting story to share. They are inspired by the same dream Shubman and his parents had — making it to the Indian cricket team. And, the duo lives in the same house where Gill used to live earlier.The mother-son duo that now resides at the cricketer's previous accommodation in Phase 9. VickyBefore moving into their own flat at Mayfair Society, Sector 70, the Gill family used to live at a house in Phase 9, Mohali, The house is close to the PCA Stadium and facilitated Shubman’s training. It is now occupied by Shivani Singh Gaur and her eight-year-old son Onish Chauhan.Onish, a budding cricketer who trains near the stadium, said: “I like the way Shubman bhaiya plays the cut and pull shots. I am eagerly waiting to meet him when he comes back to the town. It would be great if he shares some batting tips with me.”Mother Shivani Singh Gaur, herself an ardent cricket fan, said: “Being the mother of a budding cricketer, I can very well understand the joy of Shubman and his family. I am really happy that their hard work has borne fruit and Shubman has made a place for himself in the national team. I wish the house that was lucky for the Gill family proves lucky for us too.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/i-like-the-way-shubman-bhaiya-plays-cant-wait-to-meet-him-says-little-fan-201249
21-01-2021||---||16 more crows, eagle found dead in Chandigarh||Chandigarh, January 20As many as 17 more birds — 16 crows and an eagle — were found dead in different areas of the city today.Confirming this, Debendra Dalai, Chief Conservator of Forests, UT, said all 21 samples of dead birds sent to the Regional Disease Diagnostic Laboratory (RDDL), Jalandhar, so far had been tested negative for avian influenza.Fifteen birds were found dead in the city yesterday.Since the outbreak of bird flu in the Barwala area of Panchkula, the Animal Husbandry Department, UT, has increased surveillance in the city. However, no unusual morality or sickness has been observed in poultry birds in the UT.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/16-more-crows-eagle-found-dead-in-chandigarh-201250
21-01-2021||Chandigarh||In pictures: Thousands throng gurdwaras on Guru Gobind's 'Prakash Purb'||Thousands of devotees paid obeisance at gurdwaras across Punjab, Haryana, Himachal and Chandigarh on Wednesday to commemorate the 354th birth anniversary of the 10th Sikh master, Guru Gobind Singh.Guru Gobind Singh (1666-1708) founded the 'Khalsa Panth' or the community of the pure at Anandpur Sahib in 1699.Religious fervour was quite evident at 'Harmandar Sahib', the holiest of Sikh shrines also known as Golden Temple, in Amritsar in Punjab and other historic gurdwaras across the region as devotees began to assemble since early morning hours to offer prayers and listen to the 'kirtan' or hymns set to music.The Golden Temple complex was adorned with lights to mark the occasion.A heavy rush of devotees was also seen at Takht Kesgarh Sahib gurdwara in Anandpur Sahib town, around 85 km from here, since early morning. It was at this place that Guru Gobind Singh founded the 'Khalsa Panth'.Hundreds of people also offered prayers at Gurdwara Nada Sahib in Panchkula, adjoining Chandigarh, which is associated with the visit of the 10th Sikh Guru.Religious processions were taken out at various places in the region on the eve of the Guru's birth anniversary. 'Langars' or community kitchens have been set up at gurdwaras to feed the devotees.Punjab Governor VP Singh Badnore and Chief Minister Amarinder Singh greeted people on the occasion and urged them to follow the Guru's teachings and to maintain peace and harmony. — IANS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/in-pictures-thousands-throng-gurdwaras-on-guru-gobinds-prakash-purb-201199
21-01-2021||Mohali||Dera Bassi and Mohali report bird flu cases; total cases in Punjab reach 3||Samples from Alpha Poultry farm—with 55,000 livestock—and Royal Poultry farm—with 60,000 livestock—in Dera Bassi’s Behra village have tested positive for bird flu (HSN8) at the Bhopal laboratory.A sample of a dead crow taken in Mohali also tested positive.With two new cases reported on Wednesday, the number of confirmed samples of bird flu  in Punjab has reached three.On January 15, the Mohali administration had sent a suspected case of bird flu from the area to a Northern Regional Disease Diagnostic Laboratory (NRDDL) in Jalandhar. For further investigation, it was sent to the National Institute of High Security Animal Diseases (NIHSAD), Bhopal.  NRDDL, Jalandhar, Joint Director, Mohinder Pal Singh said: “The culling will be undertaken in the two poultry farms as of now”.A goose found dead a week ago at Siswan dam reservoir of Mohali had also tested positive on Tuesday.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/dera-bassi-and-mohali-report-bird-flu-cases-total-cases-in-punjab-reach-3-201165
