01-09-2020||Calcutta||Kite string slashes biker on Parama flyover||A motorcyclist was left bleeding from a slashed chin by a kite string on the Parama flyover on Sunday evening, police said. Rohit Sau, 30, who runs a business of supplying building material, said he was moving at medium speed when the string struck his face. He got the time to catch the string with one hand and protect his throat, Sau said. “I was purely lucky that I could react on time and remove the string and change its angle; otherwise it would have slashed my throat straightaway and not my chin,” Sau said. The string cut through the face mask he was wearing and slashed his chin. The Picnic Gardens resident is the eldest of four siblings. He had taken the flyover to reach a construction site behind Spring Club where he has been supplying building materials, he said. An injured Sau reached the Beleghata traffic guard on his motorcycle where he received first aid. He then went to Topsia police station to report the matter. “If the police cannot people from flying kites in the area, it is better to completely restrict the movement of two-wheelers on flyovers. This could have been fatal,” Sau said. Sau is among the many two-wheeler riders injured on the Parama and AJC Bose Road flyovers by kite strings. The police have been keeping a watch with binoculars from highrises. Cops have distributed leaflets to make people aware of the dangers of flying kites near flyovers. Many people have been arrested for manufacturing and selling kite strings and spools to discourage the flying of kites in the Beniapukur, Topsia, Tiljala and Park Circus area. “We have been trying to tackle this problem but it has remained unsolved… practically it is not possible to detect the place from where a kite is being flown… it could be kilometres away,” a traffic police officer said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-324
01-09-2020||Calcutta||New Town looks to fill Metro gap||The New Town authorities are exploring the most environment-friendly mode of public transport for a 7.5km stretch that will not be connected by the New Garia-Airport Metro, a Hidco official said on Monday. The Metro network will not cover the 7.5km stretch between the Biswa Bangla gate and the last point of Action Area III to the east of Sukhobrishti. The residential area on this stretch has been growing by the day. In a few more years, the area will be teeming with people. Plots of IT companies such as Wipro and Infosys, multiple educational institutions and mini townships like Sukhobrishti, which has 10,000 homes, are part of this area. Depending on buses, autos and e-rickshaws to transport the large number of people living in the area or going there for work will make snarls an everyday affair, according to the township authorities. It will be a repeat of what Calcutta goes through and the authorities do not want that to happen in a new and upcoming township, the Hidco official said. Neither do they want people to use their cars as a more comfortable transport option while avoiding overcrowded buses. “If we allow autos and totos to mushroom to cover this 7.5km distance, it will lead to traffic congestion when more people start living and working here. More buses, too, will eat up the available road space,” Debashis Sen, the chairman and managing director of Hidco, said. “So, we are looking for a mode of transport that will carry a large number of people without reducing the available road space and will be environment-friendly, too. It can be monorail, or other kinds of light rail, ropeways or even pods.” In India, Gurgaon has such a light rail network to connect places that are not connected by the Delhi Metro network. “The Delhi Metro Rail Corporation runs the Metro till the border of Delhi and Gurgaon. There is something called Rapid Metro, rakes with two coaches that take people from the border to the interiors of Gurgaon,” Alekhya Datta, a fellow with The Energy and Resources Institute, said. Hidco had considered introducing monorail in this part of the township about three years ago. But KPMG, which was the consultant then, had told the authorities that the returns from monorail would be inadequate for an investor to run the services. Also, the initial investment will be huge, the agency had said. Hidco has invited bids to select a consultant. The consultant will be asked to keep in mind the economic viability of the mode of transport they suggest, Sen said. “It must yield returns for the investor. Only then an investor will be interested.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-324
01-09-2020||Calcutta||Traffic rule reminder for Calcutta cyclists||Cyclists will have to follow traffic rules, especially the one-way rule, police said on Monday while extending the permission for free movement of cycles on all roads barring main arterial roads till September 30. The city police had on June 9 given cyclists this permission based on a decision taken by the state cabinet. The order was in force till August 31. Anuj Sharma, the city police commissioner, on Monday issued a fresh notification extending the relaxation till September 30 with a reminder to cyclists to follow the one-way and other traffic rules. Cyclists, according to traffic cops, tend to break the one-way rule. They are often spotted moving in the opposite direction of the traffic flow. The purpose of allowing cycles on roads barring the arterial ones was for the convenience of hundreds of people who either do not have access to public transport or want to travel alone as a precautionary measure during the pandemic, an officer said. “We are not prosecuting cyclists for violating traffic rules for the time being. But we always encourage them to use the lanes,” the officer said. Several Calcuttans have chosen cycles as their mode of transport during the lockdown. There are some who have stopped using cars and opted for cycles as part of the “new normal”. “Cycling has been my passion. I took this opportunity to shift to a cycle instead of taking out my four-wheeler during the lockdown. I avoid the main roads and take the parallel lanes to reach my office,” Sudipto Roy, an official at Exide Industries Ltd, said. He covers around 4km from his south Calcutta home to reach his office. The city police had on February 13, 2014, issued a notification listing 62 roads where cycles are restricted at stipulated times. The list hasn’t been changed; which means the restrictions are still there, a traffic police officer said. The list can be accessed on www.kolkatatrafficpolice.net under Traffic Restrictions.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-324
01-09-2020||Calcutta||Arrested for Vishwakarma Puja ‘extortion’ ||A man, who claimed to be part of a truck and tempo association in Posta, has been arrested on the charge of extorting a truck driver. Arijit Singh forced the driver to pay Rs 200 as subscription for Vishwakarma Puja, police said. “The truck driver from Andhra Pradesh reported the matter to the owner of the godown where he had brought a consignment of onions. Based on their complaint, an extortion case has been started against Singh,” an officer of Posta police station said. Hundreds of clubs and associations collect subscriptions for various festivals; but no one can be forced to pay subscriptions, the police said. Officers of Posta police station have seized a bill book from Singh. More than 50 money receipts are missing, suggesting he had collected money from at least 50 people as puja subscription, an officer said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-324
01-09-2020||Calcutta||Aged Parnasree couple abused for speaking up against drunkards||An elderly couple in Parnasree have alleged that a few drunks hurled abuses at them when they protested against the men drinking outside their home and creating a ruckus on Sunday night. They have also accused police of inaction when they had dialed the police helpline, 100. Getting no help, the woman accompanied her son to Parnasree police station after midnight to report the matter. Later on Monday, when senior officers got to know of it, they apologised to the family and sent a team to meet the elderly couple at their home assuring them of help and support, the couple’s son said on Monday evening. “It was quarter to midnight on Sunday when we heard two men talking in an objectionable way. They were sitting outside our home, drinking. I was in my room on the first floor while my parents were downstairs when they started talking loudly,” Prabalkanti Sarkar said. His father Pralay Kanti Sarkar, 86, who has various physical ailments, had requested the men from his window to move away from their house as the loud noise was disturbing them. “Instead of going away, the men started hurling abuses at my father and banging our grille gate. I rushed downstairs. But by the time I could open the lock and step out they had fled on a motorcycle,” Sarkar said. The family tried calling up the police station on its landline. But there was no response. They then dialled 100 and got connected to the police. The family was told the landline at the police station went dead in the aftermath of Cyclone Amphan. After 15 minutes two cops came, one in uniform, Sarkar said. “When we tried to tell them what had happened, the one in uniform said I was drunk and not the men against whom we were complaining. He said ours was a ‘low-class family’ and that we were in for trouble.” Sarkar said his parents felt so humiliated that his mother Ela, 80, accompanied him to the police station. At the station, an assistant sub-inspector asked his mother why she was there so late in the night, he said. “The ASI kept asking why my mother was at the police station. He kept us waiting for the duty officer for the next 40minutes. When the duty officer, a sub-inspector, came, he was surprised that we had been made to wait. Things started moving after that.” On Monday morning, the officer-in-charge of the police station, Manoj Jha, contacted the family on the phone. “The OC was extremely cooperative. He sent a team of officers  to speak to us,” he said. Jha said the police had not received any written complaint against the cops. “We have registered a general diary based on the family’s complaint of social nuisance. We are looking into the allegations against the police.” Deputy commissioner, south west, Nilanjan Biswas and joint commissioner, headquarters, Subhankar Sinha Sarkar did not respond to Metro’s text messages regarding the allegations against the police.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-324
01-09-2020||Calcutta||Covid patient occupancy runs thin at Calcutta satellite units ||Many private hospitals in Calcutta said on Monday the number of Covid-19 patients in their satellite units was going down because of several reasons, including reluctance of some insurance companies to foot the entire bill. Among other reasons are patients’ concern about medical facilities at satellite units and guidance offered by physicians on what to do when a Covid-19 patient is in home isolation. Belle Vue Clinic has set up a 25-room satellite fac-ility at a hotel in Beckbagan. On Monday, the unit had only one occupant. Medica Superspecialty Hospital has a satellite unit that can accommodate 52 Covid-19 patients, asymptomatic or with mild symptoms. On Monday, there was only one patient. The RN Tagore International Institute of Cardiac Sciences has tied up with two hotels to accommodate 52 patients. There were only five on Monday. “The number of occupants started dropping sharply over the last couple of weeks. We were having about 35 patients on an average daily earlier,” said R. Venkatesh, regional director, east, Narayana Health, which runs the RN Tagore hospital. Belle Vue officials said their satellite unit would have 20 occupants till a couple of weeks back. Medica would have 40 patients staying at its facilities. “We are spending about Rs 25 lakh a month to run the facilities, which include paying rent to the hotels and our overhead costs. We are keeping a watch on the situation and if the numbers don't increase, then we have to take a decision,” Medica chairman Alok Roy said. The state government had on June 15 said private hospitals could set up “satellite facilities” for Covid-19 patients with no or mild symptoms to free up beds reserved for such cases. The health department had said in a guideline that private hospitals could set up “satellite facilities” or observation wards at hotels or guest houses in the vicinity of their campuses. Initially, the number of occupants was less because the insurance companies were not paying for the stay. Later, the Insurance Regulatory and Development Authority allowed insurance coverage for patients staying in the units and the occupancy started rising, said hospital officials. Sources said doctors individually or in groups had tied up with hotels and started satellite units hoping there would be a good number of patients. But after a few weeks of good occupancy, the numbers started falling again. “The insurance companies are paying but only 60 to 70 per cent on an average of each bill. Sometimes, they are rejecting cashless claims saying these patients could have stayed in home isolation,” the CEO of a private hospital that runs a satellite unit said. A 10-day stay for a Covid patient at a satellite unit costs between Rs 30,000 and Rs 1.5 lakh, depending on the type of hotel. “Now, after several months into the pandemic, awareness has grown and people are feeling safer in home isolation. They don’t want to be at such units. Besides, often doctors are not willing to leave hospital duty and go to these facilities,” said the CEO. Homecare providers are advising asymptomatic patients or those with mild symptoms, boosting their confidence to stay in home isolation. Apollo Homecare used to have 100-odd patients to look after every day about a month back. “The number is now 200. We are providing clinical as well as psychological counselling for people in home isolation. People feel assured,” said Souvik Bhattacharya, regional head of Apollo Healthcare, eastern India. Doctors said technology was enabling people to prefer home isolation over the satellite facilities. “Our team of doctors is doing video calls with the patients and they feel assured. They know that if their condition turns serious, we would advise them hospitalisation,” said physician Rahul Jain. “Besides, at many residential complexes, people are no longer objecting to their neighbours who are Covid-19 positive to stay home.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-324
01-09-2020||Calcutta||Six-city air link to resume with 36 flights||The air link between Calcutta and six other Indian cities, including Delhi and Mumbai, will resume on Tuesday with 36 flights on each day, officials of the airport and airlines said. Flights from these cities were suspended on July 6 as a precaution against Covid-19. The state government had a few days ago informed the civil aviation ministry that flights could operate from Delhi, Mumbai, Chennai, Pune, Ahmedabad and Nagpur to Calcutta three days a week from September 1. Calcutta airport sources said 14 flights would operate from Delhi, eight from Mumbai, six from Chennai, four from Pune, three from Ahmedabad and one from Nagpur. “We have almost full occupancy for the first few days,” said an official of a private airline. Initially, the state government had wanted to ban flights from eight cities, including Surat. SpiceJet was operating the lone flight between Calcutta and Surat. Though Surat was not finally included on the list, SpiceJet stopped the flight. Airport sources said SpiceJet would resume the Surat flight. Metro has reported that flights from the six cities to Calcutta will operate on Tuesdays, Thursdays and Sundays from September 1 to 13. From September 14, they will operate on Mondays, Wednesdays and Fridays. The dates have been fixed keeping in mind the three lockdown days chief minister Mamata Banerjee has announced — September 7 (Monday), 11 (Friday) and 12 (Saturday). Before the ban, 25-odd flights would operate from these six cities to Calcutta every day. Many passengers were taking flights through other cities such as Guwahati and Lucknow from Delhi and Mumbai to reach Calcutta.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-324
01-09-2020||Calcutta||Calcutta weather update: Heat and humidity up ||The heat and humidity have been on the rise in the city since a wet spell ended last week. The maximum temperature on Monday was 35.5 degrees, three notches above normal. The heat and humidity might lead to the formation of clouds and trigger a spell or two of thunderstorms but the relief will be temporary. “The temperature will be on the higher side in the coming days,” said a Met official.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-324
01-09-2020||Calcutta||Bars can open from today with conditions in Calcutta||The Bengal government has allowed serving of liquor at bars and restaurants starting Tuesday. The Union home ministry’s guidelines had allowed resumption of hospitality services from June 8 but prohibited consumption of liquor at public places. So, restaurants and bars were unable to serve liquor, which constitutes around 60 per cent of their daily business. The ministry’s Unlock 4 guidelines, issued on Saturday, did not include “bar” on the list of prohibited services. An order issued by the Bengal excise department on Monday allows serving of liquor for consumption in the licensed area of an “on” premises (where one can sit and drink). Besides restaurants and bars, establishments such as theatres, clubs, canteens, dak-bunglows, railway refreshment rooms, dining cars, steamers, airport, or public resorts with attached bars shall also be allowed to serve liquor from Tuesday. But there are certain caveats: The excise department’s order also states that considering the pandemic situation, serving liquor will not be mandatory, leaving the choice to the restaurants and bars. “It surely is a positive step forward. The reality is that the past few months have been unique in every way. Going to a restaurant is an overall experience. There is the ambience, food and beverage are all part of that experience. If even one element is missing, then the experience loses its value. But the fact is we need to be responsible about how we go ahead,” said Gaurav Singh, general manager, JW Mariott, Calcutta. “This was much awaited and will be a great help for the revival of the hospitality industry, especially bars and restaurants. Most importantly lakhs of people will be employed again…. Typically, liquor constitutes 60 per cent of the entire sales on a daily basis at restaurants. A person who was not coming for drinks is affecting food sales as well,” said Sudesh Poddar, honorary secretary, Hotel and Restaurant Association of Eastern India. “Based on the order, we will issue the requisite advisory from tomorrow. We will not allow more than 50 per cent at any point,” said Pranav Singh, senior partner for Opium, Sector V, Salt Lake.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-324
01-09-2020||Calcutta||Covid: Belur Math will not allow visitors during Durga Puja ||The Covid-19 pandemic has prompted Belur Math to decide against allowing visitors during Durga Puja this year, breaking with a tradition for the first time since Swami Vivekananda started the festival at the headquarters of Ramakrishna Math and Mission 119 years ago. Senior monks steering the Belur Math administration decided at a recent meeting that this year the Puja would be held inside the Ramakrishna temple, and not in a pandal on the ground to the east of the temple like in previous years. This is the first time since 2000 that Durga Puja will be held inside the temple, monks said. “All rituals of Durga Puja, including the Kumari Puja, will be held as usual. But considering the pandemic, we will not allow visitors inside the Math,” Swami Suvirananda, the general secretary of Ramakrishna Math and Mission, said. Every year, lakhs of devotees and visitors would turn up during Durga Puja at Belur Math and gather in the huge pandal that would be erected for the occasion. Belur Math had shut its gates to visitors on March 15 as a precaution against the coronavirus. The gates were reopened on June 15 and visitors were required to undergo a series of checks before they were let in. But soon thereafter, several monks and employees at the Math tested positive for Covid-19. The administrators again decided to shut the gates to visitors on August 2. “After remaining open for 45 days, we realised that the arrival of visitors was a principal reason for the spread of the virus” on the Math premises, Swami Suvirananda said. “We have carried out a series of tests since and have taken several precautionary measures. The transmission of the virus at the Math appears to have been contained for now.” Close to 300 monks and 250 employees live on the campus of Belur Math, which is spread over 40 acres on the Hooghly’s western bank. Senior monks said over 25 monks and at least five employees had contracted the coronavirus over the last few weeks.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-324
01-09-2020||Calcutta||Covid scare shadow on turnout for JEE (Main)||A number of examinees will stay away from JEE (Main), which start on Tuesday and will continue till the end of the week, because of the fear of contracting Covid-19. A student who lives in Deshapriya Park has been assigned an examination centre in Belghoria, 20km away, and his parents have decided that he will skip the exam on Wednesday and appear next year instead. But most students, and their parents, are not ready to sit the test out and try their luck next year. Most engineering colleges across the country admit students through JEE (Main). The government has said public transport will be available but many parents are scrambling to arrange for private transport because they fear their children would be exposed to the coronavirus if they travel in public vehicles. Anurag Chatterjee, 18, of Serampore in Hooghly district, will have to travel more than 30km on Thursday to write the test. He and a friend will hire a vehicle. “If the exam is held, one has to go. Or else, a year will be lost,” said Anurag’s father Rabindranath Chatterjee. Parents fear distancing norms, key to keep the virus at bay, would not be followed when students enter or leave an exam venue. “The entry and exit are bound to be crowded because each examinee is usually accompanied by at least one parent,” said Chandrima Ghosh, from Deshapriya Park. She and her husband have decided that their son will not appear in the test this year. Son Prithvish Shankar Ghosh has to appear in the exam in the second shift and report one hour and 10 minutes before it starts. “I have to wait for him for three hours till the exam is done. We will expose ourselves and also my mother, who is 75, to the risk of catching the virus,” his mother said. Students are also bothered about whether distancing norms would be followed outside the centre, too. “My exam is in the first shift and I anticipate there will be a crowd outside for the second shift. But if I wait till next year, there will be more candidates and more competition,” said New Town resident Tejesh Jain, whose test centre is in Belghoria. The government has asked the transport department to ensure usual services of buses, taxis and autos. More government buses will be on the roads. All transport options will be available from 7am to 7.30pm in the city. In parts of North and South 24-Parganas and Howrah, gover-nment buses will be available from 6am. Students stranded on the roads can get in touch with a control room set up by the transport department through 18003455192 (toll-free number) and 8902017191 (WhatsApp). Students will carry face shields, masks and sanitisers. They have been provided with a self-declaration form, which they have to submit at the test centre. They will have to declare whether they have flu-like symptoms like fever, cough, breathlessness, sore throat/runny nose and/or body ache in the last 14 days. They also have to state whether they came in close contact (less than one metre for more than 15 minutes) with a Covid patient in the last 14 days and whether they are under “mandatory quarantine”. Candidates are advised to carry a 50ml hand sanitiser bottle and a transparent water bottle, and maintain a distance of 6ft from each other. Each candidate will be given a three-ply mask, which he or she is expected to wear at the centre.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-325
01-09-2020||Calcutta||College exams from October 1 to 18||The state-aided universities will have to conduct the final-year undergraduate and postgraduate exams between October 1 and 18 and the results will have to be declared by October 31, the Bengal government has said. Each university has to decide whether the exams will be held in the pen-and-paper or online mode or a mix of the two. The decisions were taken at a virtual meeting education minister Partha Chatterjee held with the vice-chancellors of all state-aided universities on Monday. “The minister said that if a test is held online, the university concerned has to ensure that not a single student fails to write a paper because of lack of infrastructure or a smart device,” a vice-chancellor who attended the meeting said. Almost all universities were of the opinion that the students should not be asked to write the papers on the campuses in the middle of the Covid-19 pandemic, the VC said. The colleges will have to identify the students who do not have the facilities at home for taking an online test and make alternative arrangements for them. One possible option is to send the question papers to those students so they can write the answers following the open-book examination system, which the UGC guidelines allow. The Supreme Court had on Friday upheld the University Grants Commission’s (UGC) directive to the universities to hold final-year undergraduate and postgraduate exams by September 30. But the apex court also left it to the state governments to decide whether they would postpone the exams because of the Covid-related situation. Chief minister Mamata Banerjee had said after the Supreme Court gave its directive that she would ask the education minister to discuss the matter with the VCs and take a decision on when to conduct the exams. Bengal was among the states that had opposed holding final-year undergraduate and postgraduate exams out of fear that the students, and through them their families, would be exposed to the Covid-19 infection. The state higher education department had on June 27 advised the universities that final-year undergraduate and postgraduate students should be assessed by giving 80 per cent weightage to the best performance in the previous semester/year and 20 per cent to the marks in the internal exams of the current semester/year. The advisory was issued in line with the UGC’s April 29 guideline that had given the universities the flexibility to decide on the mode of examination. On July 6, the UGC issued fresh guidelines saying the terminal semester/annual exams of the graduating students would have to be held by September 30, through pen-and-paper or online or a combination of the two. The education minister told the VCs on Monday that the state government would not issue any fresh advisory regarding exams for the final-year students. Several universities had already assessed the final-year students on the basis of their performance in the previous university exams and declared the results. These universities too will have to conduct the exams, as directed by the Supreme Court. The third-year BA and BSc exams under the 1+1+1 system and the final (sixth) semester exams in BCom were scheduled for April but got deferred because of Covid-19. The final-year (fourth) semester postgraduate exams also got deferred because of the pandemic.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-325
