02-09-2020||Calcutta||Covid fear shows in JEE (Main) turnout||As many as 70 per cent of the students did not turn up on the first day of the Joint Entrance Examination (Main) in the two centres in Calcutta. Of the 2,623 students who were to appear for the exam on Tuesday at the two centres, only 771 turned up, said officials associated with the exams. The centres are TCS Gitobitan in Salt Lake and the Institute of Instrumentation & Metrology in Belghoria. The centre in Salt Lake had exams in two shifts and the one in Belghoria, about 15km north from the heart of Calcutta, had only one shift. In one of the shifts at the Salt Lake centre, more than 1,000 students did not turn up. Tuesday’s tests were for B.Planning and B.Arch. The JEE (Main), through which most engineering colleges admit students, will continue till the end of the week. Some students felt the exams should have been conducted in April, when there were far fewer Covid-19 patients. “There are so many cases around now. Hence, chances of contracting the virus are also more,” said Diya Mukherjee, who travelled from New Alipore to Salt Lake. “It is uncomfortable writing a test for three hours wearing a mask and gloves. The hands became greasy and there was the constant fear of infection at the back of my mind.” Diya, who was a student of Delhi Public School Ruby Park, appeared for the B.Arch exam on Tuesday but will not write Wednesday’s exam. “While I was coming out I saw many students waiting outside. I decided not to come back on Wednesday because there will be more candidates and greater risk,” she said. Some examinees complained about the quality of masks given at the exam centres. “What I usually wear is better than the one I was given at the centre,” an examinee said. Candidates arrived from across the city as well as several districts. Many had to shell out a substantial amount to reach the venue by hiring vehicles, while others had no option but to travel in crowded public vehicles. Candidate Rahul Kundu and his father started at dawn from Midnapore, took a bus to Howrah and then an app cab to Salt Lake. The Telegraph reported on Monday that some examinees had decided to stay away from JEE (Main) because of the fear of contracting Covid-19. Those who decided to appear in the exam were scrambling to hire vehicles so they could travel without exposing themselves to the risk of catching the coronavirus. But not everyone can stretch their limits, especially in the midst of a pandemic, and hire a vehicle. Vivekananda Kundu, who accompanied son Rahul to the Salt Lake exam centre, said the bus was crowded and they were exposed to the risk of infection. “No social distancing norms were being maintained on the bus. But we had no other option. It took us about four hours to reach Howrah,” said Vivekananda. The Kundus will spend Tuesday night at a hotel in Esplanade because Rahul has another exam on Wednesday. “He has been preparing for this exam and we did not want him to lose a year,” the father said. At the Salt Lake centre, announcements were being made to not crowd at the gate, maintain distance from one another and wear masks. The body temperature of every candidate was measured with a thermal scanner. “Fewer students came today compared to last year. More rooms have been allotted this time to maintain social distancing,” said an official at the centre. Students coming out of the centre said they were assigned alternate computers so a safe distance between two was maintained.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-323
02-09-2020||Calcutta||Metro to meet government over resumption||A meeting between the state government and Metro officials on the resumption of commercial services is likely in the next two days following a prod from the railway ministry, railway officials said. The Bengal home secretary had written to the chairman of the railway board, seeking resumption of Metro and suburban train services in the state. “The board has asked Metro, Eastern and South-Eastern Railway officials to sit with the state government for possible resumption of services,” said a railway official. “The meeting is likely in one or two days.” Before meeting the Bengal administration, senior officials of Metro Railway on Tuesday held an “internal meeting” to discuss the modalities of possible resumption of services. A curtailed fleet and timing (a late start and early closure), access for only existing smart card users, the frequency between trains are some of the steps that Metro officials are likely to pitch at the meeting with state officials. An app for online recharge of smart cards has been in the works. Sources said 8am-to-8pm service, a 12-minute interval between trains and suspension of services on Sunday were some of the proposals discussed at Tuesday’s meeting. Indrani Banerjee, the Metro spokesperson, said: “No decision has been taken regarding the train timings or intervals. We plan to do away with tokens for now. Only existing smart card users can avail themselves of Metro services. When we meet the state government officials, the main focus areas would be social distancing and crowd control.” Metro officials have said more than once that the trains, stations and tunnels were ready for commercial services but crowd control and social distancing were the “real challenges”. The state machinery’s help is the key to meeting the challenges, they have said. Deploying RPF guards in coaches and seeking police help outside and inside the stations were some of the steps being considered by the authorities. The carrier used to run 288 trains before the services were stopped on March 23. Over six lakh people used to travel by Metro every day. “The number of trains in service will be reduced drastically,” said an official. The Union housing and urban affairs ministry is likely to come up with a set of guidelines for the resumption of Metro services across the country. The ministry has, in turn, asked for a set of standard operating procedures from all Metros in the country. Calcutta Metro, which is not a corporation, is still under the railways. But the carrier has sent a list of SOPs to the urban affairs ministry, said an official. “We are exploring many possibilities before resumption of services. Crowd control and maintaining social distance will take a lot of homework in coordination with the state government,” said Metro general manager Manoj Joshi.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-323
02-09-2020||Calcutta||Chaos as 6-city flights resume||Many passengers missed flights and many flights were delayed on Tuesday as chaos prevailed at the Calcutta airport on the first day of resumption of flights to and from six cities, including Delhi and Mumbai. Airport and airlines sources said there were huge queues in the morning and afternoon and passengers had to wait for even more than an hour at the gates to enter the terminal. Similar queues were seen at the security check-in counters, too. An IndiGo official said about 100 passengers missed their flights because they showed up at boarding gates late. Other airlines, too, said many passengers were unable to make it on time. “Most passengers will be accommodated on next day’s flight, scheduled for Thursday,” said an official of a private airline. He alleged that the airport authorities had failed to make enough arrangements despite knowing that the number of flights would go up on Tuesday. “There were no sanitisers at most points because refilling was not done at regular intervals,” the official said. On the first day of resumption of flights to Calcutta from Delhi, Mumbai, Chennai, Ahmedabad, Pune and Nagpur, 32 additional flights took off and an equal number arrived. Till Monday, 60 flights were taking off from Calcutta. On Tuesday, the count went up to 92. Asked about the long queues, airport director Kaushik Bhattacharya said: “The problem was that 60 per cent of the passengers did not do web check-in and so they had to be redirected to the airline counters. Also, they did not have smartphones and so lacked the Aragya Setu app. They had to go to the airline counters and fill in self-declaration forms. Also, there was congestion at the security check-in because many passengers were unable to place the boarding pass properly in front of the camera for scanning.” The Covid-19 pandemic has prompted the authorities to implement a minimum touch policy, which requires every passenger to place his or her boarding pass before the camera for security personnel to check it from a distance. Flights to Calcutta from the six cities were suspended on July 6, following a request from the state government, because of high Covid prevalence there. For now, the flights on the routes will be operating three days a week. From September 1 to 13, they will operate on Tuesdays, Thursdays and Sundays. From September 14, they will operate on Mondays, Wednesdays and Fridays.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-323
02-09-2020||Calcutta||ISC, ICSE improvement test plan in November||The Council for Indian School Certificate Examinations wants to hold improvement examinations for the ICSE and ISC candidates of the 2020 batch in November if the Covid-19 situation permits, a circular issued by council to the school heads said. If the pandemic does not allow the tests to be held in November, they will be held along with next year’s ICSE and ISC exams. For the compartmental exams, too, the council has taken a similar decision — they will be held in November, if possible, or with next year’s regular exams. “The improvement examinations (for the ICSE/ISC 2020 candidates awarded imputed marks) may be held in November 2020, along with the Compartmental Examinations, subject to the condition being conducive or may otherwise be held along with the regular examinations for the Year 2021,” a circular issued to the heads of all schools by the council said. The council this year had conducted the ICSE and ISC exams till March 18 and cancelled the remaining papers as a preventive measure against the spread of Covid-19. The council had formulated a scheme for assessing the examinees in the papers for which exams could not be held. The council had also said that it would conduct a fresh examination two to three months after publishing the ICSE and ISC results for the students who wanted to improve their marks. The ICSE/ISC 2020 results were declared on July 15. A student’s average marks in the best three papers and their marks in internal assessment, project work and practical in the pending papers were taken into account during the final assessment. The council in its circular on Tuesday extended the last date for the schools to submit the list of the students who will appear in next year’s ICSE and ISC exams from August 31 to September 15. The last date of registration of students of Classes IX and XI for appearing in the 2022 ICSE and ISC exams have been extended from August 31 to September 15. The dates have been extended because many principals had been complaining to the council that the schools were closed and they had not been able to collect the necessary information from students. The schools are required to deposit fees to the council at the time of submitting the confirmation and registration forms. Many schools have complained that a large number of students have not paid the tuition and other fees for several months. “The Council has received several emails from heads of schools regarding the general difficulty being faced by them to collate information and make payments for the Confirmation and registration of candidates for the 2021 & 2022 ICSE/ISC Examinations due to unprecedented situation created by Covid 19 pandemic. In view of the present situation the council has decided to review its earlier stand and to extend the dates...” the council circular said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-323
02-09-2020||Calcutta||‘Nothing great’ but ‘it feels so good’ behind the bar||The bottle was uncorked in bars after more than five months on Tuesday. The first day was “nothing great” but owners hoped that serving alcohol would gradually improve footfall. Bars have to do with half the seating capacity and a much-reduced workforce. But the permission to serve liquor has brought a sense of relief and hope, several owners said. A veteran Park Street restaurateur was seen pouring whisky into four glasses around 3.30pm for patrons. A waiter had reached out for the bottle but was stopped by the owner. “This feels so good, so normal, so Park Street. I want to make many more drinks today,” said Pratap Daryani, the owner of Oasis. The reduced capacity meant space for 30 guests on the ground floor and 40 on the first floor. But only two tables were occupied — one on the first floor had two guests and one on the ground floor had one. Amishek Singh, a businessman from Tollygunge, was seated at a table on the ground floor with a drink. “I was waiting to have a drink and good lunch on Park Street. This is a shot at normal life, which has to go on,” Singh who had dropped in on his way back from meeting a client in Salt Lake said. Around 300m away, three tables were occupied in the sprawling dining area of Tung Fong. “This seems a lot… footfall was lean past month. There have been Saturdays and Sundays when only seven or eight tables were occupied throughout the day. We hope serving liquor improves footfall, at least marginally,” an employee said. Glass walls separating tables and alternate tables “reserved” —distancing steps that have been in place since restaurants reopened on June 8 — continued to be in place. Restaurants got the nod to reopen from June 8 but the lid on bottles had kept many establishments shut. A few watering holes were shut on Tuesday, too. But the owners said they were busy stocking up and would reopen soon. “The excise order came suddenly. We are stocking up and we will open tomorrow (Wednesday),” an official of Silver Grill, one of the places that were shut on Tuesday said. The price of alcohol remained unchanged at most of the places on Tuesday. Restaurateurs said they had to spend “30 per cent more” to procure stock from the West Bengal State Beverages Corporation but high prices at restaurants is fraught with risk of a further dip in footfall. A couple of bar owners said they had raised prices, but “marginally”.The dine-and-drink dens will not extend timings immediately. The usual closure time is 11pm. Some of the places wind up earlier as well. The resumption of bar services has instilled new hope in many employees who are on furlough or an unpaid leave. “I had called up my manager… he told me about the permission to serve liquor and said if things improve I might get back to work,” a resident of Uttarpara who used to work at a bar on Camac Street said. Some restaurant owners  said calling employees back to work right now was unlikely. “We were sinking. The nod to serve liquor has come as a much-needed lifeboat. The next few months will have to see a robust growth for us to plan anything,” a bar owner said. The extension of timings will help bring back some employees, another owner said. “It would mean multiple shifts and the need for more people. But in the current situation, no owner will be willing to pay extra to stay open late in the night,” he said. Gaurav Karnani, the owner of the Grid microbrewery in Topsia, said it was premature to comment on footfall on Day 1. “Evenings are the prime time for us. The next few days are very crucial and will help us gauge the mood of people,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-323
02-09-2020||Calcutta||Left overtake proves fatal||A man riding a scooter was killed when he crashed into a bus while trying to overtake it from the left on Cathedral Road near Rabindra Sadan on Tuesday, police said. Aftab Siddiqui, 32, was wearing a helmet when he collided with the bus on the Santragachhi-Dharmatala route and skidded on the road while trying to overtake the bus from the left, the police said. “The accident occurred around 5.20pm. The bus driver did not realise someone had banged against the vehicle and he kept driving… the man came under the rear wheels of the bus,” a traffic police officer said. Siddiqui, who hailed from Mathabhanga in Cooch Behar district, was declared dead at SSKM Hospital. Officers of Hastings police station have seized the bus and arrested the driver. He has been booked for rash and negligent driving and causing death by negligence. The number of two-wheelers has gone up during the lockdown, according to the traffic police. “Everyone knows one should never overtake a vehicle from the left but in this case the scooterist did exactly that. The driver of the bus has claimed he could not see the scooter because of a blind spot on the vehicle’s left,” an officer of the traffic police’s fatal squad said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-323
02-09-2020||Calcutta||Two-week survey on comorbidity||A survey to identify Calcuttans with comorbidities, which make them more vulnerable to Covid-19, will begin next week. The civic body has set a target of two weeks to finish the door-to-door survey, a Calcutta Municipal Corporation official said. Close to 3,000 workers will be deployed in the Calcutta municipal area’s 144 wards for the survey. One person will visit one household, unlike in the case of dengue where two or three-member teams do the survey. This has been done to ensure faster coverage of 1 million households in the wards, the official said. At least 20 health workers in every ward will carry forms with them to mark if a respondent has kidney disease, heart disease, liver disease, or is a diabetic, or suffers from chronic obstructive pulmonary disorder (COPD), or is hypertensive or has tuberculosis. The health workers will not record any other detail. Their job will be restricted to only noting down if the respondent has any of the diseases, the official said. The medical officers, who are in charge of health services in the wards, will be trained later this week. They will then train the health workers who will carry out the door-to-door survey. “We will start the survey next week in all likelihood,” the official said. Twenty health workers in a ward will visit 20 households simultaneously. “We decided to send only one person to a house as that would leaves more people to visit more houses at the same time,” another official said. According to the bulletin on Covid-19 issued by the state health department, 86.8 per cent of the 3,228 people who died of Covid-19 till Monday had comorbidities. The bulletin mentioned that hypertension, COPD and diabetes were the three most common comorbidities among the dead. The data generated by the door-to-door survey will be digitised and can be accessed by the state health department and CMC doctors. When information about someone testing positive for Covid-19 reaches the borough health officer or the ward medical officer — both of whom are doctors — they will check the database to see if the person has comorbidities, the official said. “When someone with comorbidity tests positive, the medical officer of the ward will be extra cautious. In case it is found that the person aged over 70 and has multiple comorbidities, the medical officer may advise against home isolation and suggest the person to get admitted to hospital,” a CMC doctor said. The reaction to someone in their 30s and without any comorbidity will be different from someone in their 70s with comorbidities, the doctor said. “This is why the survey is important. We will get to know who has comorbidity and react accordingly. We will request everyone to be true while answering the questions and allow health workers to conduct the survey.” If any family member is not at home when a surveyor reaches the house, he/she will ask the others present details about that member, a CMC official said. A large number of people of Baruipur and its nearby areas had been infected with coronavirus over the past several weeks. “So we decided to open an isolation centre for the people of the locality,” said Reverend Paritosh Canning, bishop of the Calcutta diocese. The St. Stephen’s Covid-19 Isolation Centre is the first such centre to be run by the CNI. It has been set up at a hostel for students of a vocational training centre run by the CNI. The church has tied up with Peerless Hospital to provide medical supervision of the patients who will be staying in the centre, the bishop said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-323
02-09-2020||Calcutta||Science City seeks Rs 7.5cr||Science City, Kolkata, has for the first time sought a special fund of Rs 7.5 crore from the Union culture ministry to pay members of its staff salaries and bear maintenance costs during the pandemic. All avenues of revenue generation have stopped for Science City since the Centre announced the lockdown on March 23. Of all the Science Centres in the country, Science City, Kolkata, is the only one that used to be to be completely self-reliant and did not receive any funds or grants from the government. A unit of the National Council of Science Museums (NCSM), an autonomous body of the Union culture ministry, Science City, Kolkata, is the largest science centre in the country. It was developed by the administrative ministry with a one-time capital grant. Science City somehow met its operational and maintenance costs from its own revenues. It earned about Rs 19-20 crore annually through ticket sales and rentals. The convention centre on the premises is given out on rent. The annual expenditure was around the same figure with not much left for savings, A.D. Choudhury, the director-general of the National Council of Science Museums, said. The lockdown has hit the science centre hard and it is the first time it has had to ask for money from the government. “The NCSM is with the culture ministry…. We have asked for a special grant from the ministry. We had a discussion at a meeting of our governing body and we decided to send a proposal to the ministry asking for Rs 7.5 crore,” Choudhury said. “This is mainly to meet salary expenses and maintenance costs. Employees of Science City are employees of NCSM… they are government employees and as such should receive their salaries from the government. It is only that till now Science City generated enough funds to pay its staff… the government did not have to spend money.” Choudhury said Science City “was 100 per cent self-reliant” and that he regretted not having saved some money for such a rainy day. Inaugurated on July 1, 1997, Science City consists of two facilities, the Science Centre and the Convention Centre. The Science Centre complex comprises Space Odyssey, Dynamotion, Science Exploration Hall, Maritime Centre, Earth Exploration Hall and a sprawling Science Park. It has recorded a footfall of more than 29.90 million to date. It was set up on a plot that was once used to dump garbage. The Convention Centre complex comprises the main auditorium with a seating capacity of 2,232, a mini auditorium (seating capacity 392), a seminar hall complex consisting of 11 halls (seating capacity ranges from 15 to 100), an indoor (270sq m) and an open air exhibition ground (20,000sq m). The centre is a major destination for conventions, conferences, AGMs, trade exhibitions and cultural programmes from which Science City has so far generated a sizeable income. Science City, Kolkata, is one of the foremost science centres built by NCSM and it has been instrumental in setting up 25 science centres, including those in the Northeast states and Raipur, Ranchi, Dharwad, Puducherry, and Kottayam among others.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-323
