03-09-2020||Calcutta||JU teachers want autonomy to conduct final semester exams ||A teachers' body at Jadavpur University has urged Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee to ensure that the institution is given the required autonomy to conduct the final semester examinations. The Jadavpur University Teachers' Association (JUTA), in a recent letter to Banerjee, also said the state government-stipulated date of October 31 for declaring results is not feasible as it falls just after the Durga Puja festivities. JUTA general secretary Partha Pratim Roy said that the university should be given the autonomy to decide the dates of assessment and declaration of results. The JUTA, the largest teachers' body in JU, wants a quick completion of the entire evaluation process but it should be decided by the university itself, he said. The advisory issued by the University Grants Commission (UGC) to mandatorily conduct final semester examinations by September 30 has put the students under stress, the teachers' body said. The recent follow-up action of the state Higher Education Department, asking the universities to conduct the final semester examinations between October 1 and 18 and declare results by October 31, is further inconveniencing the students, it said. "If the universities, as advised by the state government, fix the assessment in October, they will have to take the permission of the UGC, as per the Supreme Court order on August 28. "Given the present scenario, where the UGC seems to be taking decisions in an arbitrary and unscientific manner, this may give rise to another set of uncertainties regarding the granting of permission to hold examinations in October which will increase the pressure on the students," Roy said in the letter. Pointing out that Durga Puja will be celebrated across the state from October 22, the JUTA said, "If the assessment process commences at the beginning of October and is completed by October 18, as advised by the Higher Education Department, many students will miss the opportunity to join other higher educational institutions or take up jobs." The JUTA reminded the chief minister that the JU had initially prepared a protocol for assessment based on the Higher Education Department's advisory issued in April, which allowed the universities to prepare their own procedure for assessment. "However, after most of the assessments were completed at JU, the department had issued a fresh advisory on June 27 proposing an 80-20 formula, wherein 20 per cent of the score for a paper would be awarded based on the student's performance during the final semester and 80 per cent would be given on the basis of his/her results in the previous semester examinations," it said. As a result, JU was forced to change the whole assessment procedure and "prepare results of the terminal semester/final year based on the June 27 advisory and the results prepared on the basis of the said advisory have now become redundant", the teachers' body said. The JUTA said the Higher Education Department's previous advisory to the state universities to conduct examinations in October "seemed to have been taken in haste without taking into consideration the specific issues and problems faced by different universities".||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-321
03-09-2020||Calcutta||Open-book exams at Calcutta University||Calcutta University will conduct open-book examinations for final-year undergraduate and postgraduate students where they will have 24 hours to upload answers. The university will email the questions to the undergraduate colleges. The individual colleges will send the questions through email or over WhatApp to examinees at the start of the examination. Students will have to upload the answers in PDF format and send them via email or WhatsApp to their colleges within 24 hours, vice-chancellor Sonali Chakravarti Banerjee said. In case any student is not able to manage a smart device or unable to upload the answers because of poor connectivity, he or she will have to write the answers on paper and submit the hardcopy in sealed envelope to his or her college within 24 hours, the vice-chancellor said. The individual undergraduate colleges will evaluate the answers of their own students. The teachers of the respective colleges will be engaged for evaluating the answers of the students. The undergraduate examinations will start on October 1 and continue till October 8, the vice-chancellor told Metro. All the 68 postgraduate departments of the university have been advised to complete the examinations within October 8, she said. The time-table of both the exams will be announced within a few days, the vice-chancellor said. The marks of all the undergraduate and postgraduate examinations will have to be sent to the controller of examination department of the university by every college within October 18. The results of the examinations of all the streams will be declared within October 31. This is the first time the university has adopted the open-book examination for all undergraduate and postgraduate courses. It was not heard of in the 163-year old history of the university. It has been adopted as an alternative measure only for the current year in view of the pandemic, a professor of the university said. There will be no change in the pattern of the undergraduate questions to be provided to the students. But the postgraduate departments will be advised to change the question pattern and incorporate more “analytical” questions since the examination will be on open-book mode, an official said. The university may consider bringing in some changes in the marking pattern of the undergraduate examinations because students will be given 24 hours for uploading the answers, an official of the university said. “Students can take the help of private tutors or friends for writing the answers.. We need to ensure that the evaluation of the answers is held in a fair manner,” the official said. Postgraduate students will be examined the same way and they too will have to upload the answers within 24 hours. The departments will evaluate the answers and have to send the marks to the controller of examinations department within October 18. More than 1.10 lakh examinees will appear for the undergraduate and post graduate examinations, an official said. The decisions were taken at a meeting of the university’s faculty council on Wednesday. The time-table and the other instructions for the colleges, teachers and students will be announced after discussing the faculty council decisions at the university’s syndicate body. The meeting of the syndicate will be held soon, the vice-chancellor said. The examinations in each subject will be held on 100 percent marks allotted in the papers. “Our target is to declare the results within October 31. But we can declare the results of a particular course a few days before the targeted date if all the marks reach us before October 18,” she said. The third-year BA and BSc exams under the 1+1+1 system and the final (sixth) semester examinations in BCom were slated in April but they got deferred because of Covid-19. The final year (fourth) semester postgraduate examinations also got deferred. Education minister Partha Chatterjee had said on Monday that the final year undergraduate and postgraduate examinations will have to be  conducted by the universities within October 1 and 18 and the results will have to be declared within October 31.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-322
03-09-2020||Calcutta||CMC for fire law changes to facilitate construction||The Calcutta Municipal Corporation and the fire department will approach the government to amend sections of the fire services act that come in the way of construction of five or six-storey buildings, Firhad Hakim said on Wednesday. Hakim, the chairperson of the CMC’s board of administrators, held a meeting with fire officers and CMC officials where the proposal to amend the act was discussed. The CMC’s building rules allow certain relaxations for new constructions coming up in place of old, crumbling structures. The relaxations are related to leaving mandatory open space on the plot and the building’s height vis-a-vis the road width in the front. “The building rules allow lesser open space in case of buildings in place of old, crumbling structures and if the old buildings have multiple tenants,” a CMC official said. This relaxation is given to ensure the new structure has adequate space to rehabilitate all tenants. “We have to give some incentive to builders.” In allowing the additional space, the height of the building increased. In the building rules, the height of a building depends on the road width in the front. “In case of buildings with tenants, the height is more than what is allowed for other buildings with a road of similar width in the front,” the official said. The relaxations are given to five or six-storey buildings, he said. “We will jointly send a proposal to amend portions of the fire services act. A lot of building plans are not getting approved because of this,” Hakim said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-322
03-09-2020||Calcutta||Plan to end ‘chaos’ at airport||Airlines and airport authorities will deploy more people to handle the chaos at Calcutta airport on the days when flights to six cities, including Delhi and Mumbai, will operate, officials said on Wednesday. Airport and Central Industrial Security Force (CISF) officials and representatives of airlines conducted a survey of the terminal building to find out how the chaos can be prevented. On Tuesday, many passengers missed their flights and several flights were delayed because of long queues on the first day of resumption of flights between Calcutta and Delhi, Mumbai, Chennai, Ahmedabad, Pune and Nagpur. “Most of the passengers are first-time fliers and many do not have smartphones to comply with the travel requirements as part of the new Covid-19 guidelines. This is the most significant challenge faced by the airport and airlines and it is slowing down the process of check-in. Airline personnel are helping these people but we will allocate more people to make the process faster from Thursday,” Captain Sarvesh Gupta, advisor to the airline operators’ committee at Calcutta airport, said. Airline officials said they would deploy employees outside the terminal building where passengers have been standing in long queues to enter the building. “They will ask passengers if they have the Arogya Setu app and have done the web check-in, which are mandatory. If some passengers don’t have that, they will be taken out of the queue and helped by airline employees to fill up self-declaration forms stating they do not have symptoms of Covid-19 and get the web check-in done,” an official of an airline said. Metro had on Wednesday reported how passengers were stuck at the entrance to the terminal and in the security hold area and that airlines had alleged lack of preparedness on part of the airport authorities. One of the issues was first-time fliers not having the required documents on their smartphones while some did not have smartphones. “We have to assist these passengers,” Gupta said. Airport officials said they would deploy more CISF personnel at various points. “Additional CISF personnel would be deployed at the gates so that those who have all the necessary documents can be cleared by them,” airport director Kaushik Bhattacharya said. He said the automatic tray retrieval system at the security check counters where passengers put their belongings for X-ray scanning have been made fully operational on Wednesday. “This should reduce the congestion in the security hold area to some extent,” Bhattacharya said. Airport officials said another plan was to deploy airline and CISF personnel to ensure all security check counters were utilised to the optimum. “Many first-time fliers are standing in one long queue while the other counters for security check are not that congested. These personnel would redirect the passengers to counters that are less congested,” an airport official said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-322
03-09-2020||Calcutta||Covid stalls Bengal wild animal study||The pandemic has put the brakes on a study to assess the habitat and distribution of hyenas, wolves and some other wild animals said to be found in the forests of the western districts of Bengal. These animals do not hog the limelight and are not the centre of conservation efforts like their illustrious peers — tiger and elephant. Outside reserve forests areas, their population is undocumented and the extent of their distribution largely anecdotal, said forest officials. The study is the first step to plug that gap. The study, commissioned two years ago and being done by the Zoological Survey of India, is under the West Bengal Forest and Biodiversity Conservation Project, funded by Japan International Cooperation Agency (Jica). It covers hyenas, wolves, golden jackals, leopard cats and wild boars. A team of ZSI researchers had spent months in the forests of Purulia, Jhargram, West Midnapore and Bankura. Phase one of the study involved direct sightings, taking pictures, studying scat samples, pugmarks and kills of carnivores. Based on the direct and indirect evidence, the researchers have zeroed in on multiple “frequent encounter sites”. The second stage involves laying trap cameras at these places. Around 30 cameras were placed at a patch of forest surrounding the Ayodhya hills in Purulia. But they had to be taken off because of risk of damages by human interference. “A park or a sanctuary is a protected forest area with minimal human interference. But these are open forests, frequently accessed by people living in the villages on the fringes,” said Lalit Kumar Sharma, scientist and officer in charge of the wildlife division of the ZSI, who is coordinating the project. The researchers had requested the forest department to ensure security of the equipment. Following an assurance, a fresh lot of cameras was supposed to have been placed from this March. The images captured from the camera traps would be used to analyse the population density of a species. But the Covid-19 curbs have delayed the process by at least a few months, said a ZSI official. “Our team has had hyena sightings at a forest near the Ayodhya hills in Purulia. We have not seen wolves but indirect evidence — scat and other samples used for DNA analysis — suggest there are multiple wolves in these forests,” said Sharma. The forests of Purulia, Jhargram, West Midnapore and Bankura are interspersed with human settlements. A senior wildlife official, instrumental in starting the project, explained its significance. “The smaller animals in a tiger habitat, like the Sunderbans, are studied in detail as part of the tiger census. They form the prey base and are treated like important subjects. But the forests of south Bengal (other than the Sunderbans) are not tiger habitats. Neither are they protected forests. The smaller animals in these areas have so far remained outside the ambit of documentation,” the official told Metro. The ZSI study also aims to provide insights into the human-wildlife conflict involving these animals and suggest ways of mitigation. Human-wildlife conflict in these parts mostly involve marauding herds of elephants. But it is not limited to pachyderms only. A hyena was allegedly killed, beheaded and chopped into pieces by some residents of a village in Purulia in the third week of July. Forest officials suspected it to have been a retaliatory killing because the hyena had strayed into the village and lifted some livestock. In February 2019, a wolf was captured by residents of a Jhargram village after the animal allegedly attacked a number of locals. The researchers have surveyed villagers living on the fringes of the forests. They interviewed individual villagers and interacted with communities to assess the “damages” caused by wild animals. The villagers were asked about “encounters” with wild animals. “We have identified a few conflict hotspots and have shared the details with the forest department,” said Sharma of ZSI.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-322
03-09-2020||Calcutta||Sky set to clear, heat & humidity to rise: Met||A cyclonic circulation triggered moderate rainfall in the city on Tuesday and Wednesday. It brought temporary relief from the rising heat and humidity in the city since last weekend. But sweaty conditions are likely to gradually be back in the city, said a Met official. “A cyclonic circulation over Gangetic Bengal led to the rainfall. The system now lies over Gangetic West Bengal and adjoining Jharkhand and extends up to 0.9km above mean seal level,” said a Met update on Wednesday evening. “The monsoon trough now passes through Bahraich, Gaya, Shantiniketan and eastwards to Manipur across Bangladesh and south Assam,” the update said. “Another cyclonic circulation is brewing over the Bay of Bengal off the Andhra Pradesh and Tamil Nadu coasts. It is too far from Bengal to have an impact here,” said the Met official. From Friday to Monday, the maximum temperature hovered around 35 degrees. The high moisture content in the air, typical of August, had made it more sweltering. The maximum temperature on Monday was 35.4 degrees Celsius, three notches above normal. Around 2.30pm, the RealFeel — calculated by weather portal AccuWeather.com — was 43 degrees. The hot and sultry spell was broken by sharp thundershowers that started from early Tuesday. From Tuesday morning to Wednesday night, the city got multiple spells of rain. The sky was overcast for most of the two days. Roads were deserted on Monday because of the lockdown in the state. But on Tuesday and Wednesday, traffic was slow at several busy intersections because of the rain. The first few days of a month see a sizeable queue outside government banks — mostly senior citizens waiting to draw their persons. Around 11am on Wednesday, over 20 elderly people were jostling for space under a sunshade outside a nationalised bank in Behala. They were trying to take shelter from the train. Only a few were being allowed inside the bank at a time to maintain social distancing. The Met office recorded around 40mm of rain on Tuesday and Wednesday combined. The volume was not much but the overcast and windy conditions led to a dip in the temperature. Tuesday’s maximum temperature was 27.1 degrees, five notches below normal. On Wednesday, it had climbed to around 30 degrees, still two notches below normal. “The sky is expected to clear from Thursday afternoon. There could be occasional showers but it is likely to get hotter from Thursday,” the Met official said. “There is usually a lot of moisture in the air during the monsoon. At times like this, when the rain dries up and there are no clouds, allowing the sun to beat down hard, the temperature rises and the moisture in the air makes the weather sweaty and uncomfortable,” the official said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-322
03-09-2020||Calcutta||IIT Kharagpur snaps Net in hostels to ‘evict’ boarders||The IIT Kharagpur authorities have disconnected the Internet in hostels, fuelling charges that it was intended at forcing students to vacate the rooms. The director had asked all students to leave the campus by August 30. The Net connection in all five hostels was snapped on Tuesday evening, an official said. The decision was taken three days after 65 research scholars had written to director V.K. Tewary that they were unable to leave the campus by Sunday and had sought permission to stay in the hostels till the situation became normal. Apart from the research scholars, a few BTech and MTech students are on the campus as they cannot return home in the absence of trains and some of their family members have comorbidities. A boarder of the Nivedita hall of residence said the Wi-Fi and LAN services had been stopped and that they were unable to attend online classes or access journals on their laptops in the hostels. The online classes for the autumn semester have started from September 1 and live classes are being held on Microsoft Teams. “As the Internet facilities have been withdrawn, we could not attend the live classes. Some of the students have to buy expensive data packs to attend classes on their smartphones. But one cannot keep buying high-speed packs for the entire semester,” a boarder said. A research scholar said for the purpose of reference one had to consult various international journals. “As long as we had Net connectivity in the hostels, we could access the journals free of cost. Now, we have to subscribe against a steep payment to access the journals on smartphones,” she said. Any institute of higher learning, through its research grant, subscribes to journals and students can access 
them from hostels with Net connectivity, a teacher said. Another research scholar said they had to step outside the hostels and stand or sit in the open to access the institute’s network facility. “But we are allowed to step out only for an hour for lunch. Besides, one cannot concentrate on studies or research in the open,” he said. The dean of students’ affairs, Somesh Kumar, said: “The Internet facilities have been withdrawn following the decision of higher authorities.” A BTech student said the institute which had sent its officials, along with security men, to evict the boarders from one of the halls on August 24, has now adopted a different ploy so that students leave the hostels on their own. A video had emerged that purportedly showed an official of IIT Kharagpur, accompanied by guards, telling students at Madan Mohan Malviya hall of residence to vacate the campus, failing which their belongings would be taken away. “Now they are withdrawing the Net service to throw us out,” a student said. The IIT authorities had on August 19 asked the 300-odd students still on the campus to move out by August 23 after a student had tested positive for Covid-19. Now the number has risen to 12, five of them being students. “The institute is asking the students to leave the campus for their own safety. The director has requested them repeatedly. The bulk of the students have left, only a handful refuse to understand,” an official said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-322
03-09-2020||Calcutta||13-year-old set for online class found hanging||A 13-year-old student of Class VIII was found hanging from the ceiling of his room at their Bansdroni home on Tuesday morning, police said. Jason Ronal’s father, a railway contractor, and mother, who is attached with a dental store in south Calcutta, were at their workplaces and Jason was alone at home. He was supposed to have his online classes, the police said. Jason’s father Julies Oberne, a resident of Kalitala Park in South Bansdroni in the Regent Park police station area, and mother Jyoti told cops that they had left early in the morning leaving Jason at home like other days. Oberne returned around 10.30am to find the door locked from inside. Repeated knocks went unanswered, he told the police. After breaking open the door, Oberne found his son hanging from a bamboo pole in his room, the police said. Jason was declared dead at Baghajatin State General Hospital. Officers of Regent Park police station said they got to know of it only when the hospital reported the matter to Netaji Nagar police station later in the day. “According to the statement of the parents of the student, he had his online classes in the morning,” an officer of Regent Park police station said. The police have started a case of unnatural death. The body has been sent for post-mortem. The officer said cops would check Jason’s phone for any possible clue. Jason was a student of St Clare School on Bandipur Road in the Regent Park area. “We will talk to his teachers and friends to find out if they had noticed anything unusual in his behaviour in the past few days,” an officer in Lalbazar said. Several parents Metro spoke to have expressed concern over their children getting restless because of the prolonged confinement at home during the pandemic. “My son has become irritable. We cannot allow him to go out and play football with his friends even though our home is right in front of a huge ground. For young boys it is difficult to stay indoors for such a long time,” Pallabi Mukherjee, a resident of Garia, said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-322
03-09-2020||Calcutta||Fleecing allegations dog home collection of Covid samples||A family in Kasba, who underwent Covid tests last week, alleged the private hospital, which had sent its personnel to collect swab samples from their homes, charged each of the four persons Rs 2,800. When they got the receipt from the hospital, the amount mentioned was Rs 2,250, as stipulated by the state government. Another family in Behala, who had taken the service of the same private hospital to get their swab samples collected from home last week, alleged the person who came to collect the samples asked them to pay Rs 3,200 for each sample. The family in Kasba got in touch with the hospital and officials told them the collection had been outsourced to an agency and it was their people who had collected the samples. “The hospital then sent the agency representative to our home who returned the balance amount but kept Rs 150 as transport cost,” the Kasba resident, a retired central government employee, said. “Initially when we had called the hospital, the person who received the call said they would send someone to our home. At no point were we told that someone from an outsourced agency would collect the samples. So, we thought the hospital was overcharging us.” If a hospital is outsourcing the home collection of swab samples then it has to ensure such agencies maintain hygiene and use proper equipment to collect samples, according to public health experts. The state government has capped the price of Covid-19 tests to a maximum of Rs 2,250. But for collection of samples from home, the West Bengal Clinical Establishment Regulatory Commission has issued an advisory that a maximum of Rs 15 can be charged for every kilometre as transport cost over and above the fixed amount of Rs 2,250. An official of the private hospital off the Bypass said it had 35 such outsourced agencies, which collect samples from homes across Calcutta and North and South 24-Parganas. The hospital collects about 200 samples from homes every day, the official said. “We have trained them on how to collect samples. But it’s not possible to keep a watch on every agency at the micro level. If we get complaints, we immediately address them,” the official said. The chairman of the hospital group said it was not possible to conduct tests at homes for Rs 2,250. “We have told the commission that Rs 15 for every kilometre as transport cost is not viable. They should allow at least an additional Rs 300 for the PPE cost,” he said. The chairman said the outsourced agencies might be overcharging people because of the low margin. Officials of several private hospitals and diagnostic centres said they had not outsourced the swab collection from homes because of such issues. But they agreed that home collection was in high demand because many people were scared to visit hospitals for tests. “Collecting a swab sample for Covid test is a highly specialised job and the technique and equipment should be as per the standards set by the Indian Council of Medical Research,” Somnath Chatterjee, director of Suraksha Diagnostics Pvt Ltd, said. The centre has been doing home collection of swab samples. “We have not outsourced to any agency because of quality control and other issues. The virus transport media, the equipment that is used to collect the sample, should be approved by the ICMR. We are not sure if the outsourced agency would be following the rules. Also, we cannot control the amount they charge people.” The diagnostic centre has been collecting close to 40 samples every day through its own employees, Chatterjee said. The CEO of a private hospital said the hospital had started home swab collections but had brought down the numbers because too many samples could compromise the quality. “We send doctors to collect samples. I am not sure whether the quality can be maintained if any technician who has not undergone proper training is sent,” he said. The samples collected need to be stored in temperature-controlled boxes before being brought to hospital, he said. “It is difficult to ensure an outsourced agency maintains such standards.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-322
03-09-2020||Calcutta||Air India direct to London from Calcutta||Air India on Wednesday announced evacuation flights directly between Calcutta and London from September 16. The flights will operate twice a week till October 24, the airline said. “The flights are under the Vande Bharat scheme and will operate on Thursdays and Sundays from Calcutta and Wednesdays and Saturdays from London,” an Air India spokesperson said. He said bookings had already started for the flights. According to the airline, the flight will leave Calcutta at 5am on Thursdays and Sundays and reach Heathrow at 11am (London time). While returning, it will leave Heathrow at noon (London time) on Wednesdays and Saturdays and reach Calcutta at 2.20am. The Bengal government has stopped evacuation flights from international destinations unless it issues a no objection certificate for a particular flight. The decision was taken after several evacuees, many of them medical students, had refused to go for paid quarantine after landing in Calcutta. The government is now allowing chartered flights from other countries to bring evacuees after the ministry of civil aviation revised the SOP and said passengers with negative reports of Covid-19 tests would be allowed to board a flight. “But the rule that an NOC is required for airlines operating evacuation flights is still in place. We have not received any communication from the state government on this,” a Calcutta airport official said. The Air India spokesperson said the civil aviation ministry had asked them to operate the direct flights between Calcutta and London. “We are following all the SOPs issued by the government.” Although not a regular commercial flight, but the direct link to London came after several years. Air India had started a direct flight between Calcutta and London in 2006 but had stopped it after a couple of years. The reason was poor load factor. “We have started getting bookings for the flight. There are many people from the UK who are stuck here, among them are students. Also, there are people from London who want to return home,” Anil Punjabi, chairman, east, Travel Agents Federation of India, said. “People who want to go to other parts of Europe can take the flight.” There are many people who could not book seats in evacuation flights from London to Delhi or Mumbai because the flights to Calcutta from these six cities were stalled by the state government because of the high number of Covid patients in these cities, according to tour operators.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-322
03-09-2020||Calcutta||JEE: 400km in pursuit of the goal of government job||A farmer’s son, who lives with his parents in a thatched hut in Balapur village,15km from Balurghat in South Dinajpur, hopes to get into an engineering college and secure “a government job”. Banking on this hope Subhankar Burman risked his and his father Malin Burman’s safety in the middle of the pandemic to travel overnight on a bus to Calcutta from Balurghat to take the JEE (Main) exam. “I want to get a government job… that would enable me to help my father financially,” Subhankar said after stepping out of the exam centre at TCS Gitobitan in Salt Lake. Subhankar’s father waited outside for more than three hours in heat and rain while his son took the exam. But waiting that long is not a tough call for the farmer who works for eight to 12 hours on the field, at times without a break. “I have never seen him complain. But I can see the hard work he puts in for me day after day,” Subhankar said. “When there is work we have to be on the field from dawn to afternoon. That has been my life for many years; but my son wants a different life and I want to support him,” Burman, a graduate, said. Subhankar hopes to secure a “government job” as that will mean “more certainty”. Chasing a life that will be more certain than the one he is leading now, the boy has never complained, even if it meant travelling during lockdown. “We are thankful that we got a bus and it was not crowded. But yes, all seats were occupied and we had masks to keep ourselves safe,” he said. Subhankar and his father started from Balurghat at 8pm on Aug-ust 31 and reached Dunlop on the city’s northern outskirt the next morning. The two are staying at a relative’s place in Dunlop, an option that helped them travel over 400km “in pursuit of a better life”. They will stay at Dunlop for a few more days because Subhankar will take the National Defence Academy exam, scheduled for Sunday. “I could opt for both the exams… and it helped because we had a relative with whom we could stay in Calcutta,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-322
03-09-2020||Calcutta||Father and son cycle 100km to reach JEE exam centre||A father and son from Gosaba in South 24-Parganas cycled for more than 100km before travelling 20 km on buses to reach a JEE (Main) exam centre in Salt Lake on Wednesday. Rabindranath Mondal and his son Diganta started their journey at 5.30am on Tuesday for the exam that was scheduled for 3pm the next day. In the first leg of the journey, Mondal, a carpenter by profession, and his son cycled for five hours from their village in Bijoynagar in Gosaba to reach Piyali, around 60 km away, and then crossed a river on a small boat. After a night’s rest at Piyali, they started again at 8am on Wednesday — this time only Mondal cycled with his son on the pillion — to reach Sonarpur, almost 50km away. “He had his exam; so, I did not want him to get tired by cycling,” Mondal said. The cycle was kept at a relative’s place in Sonarpur from where they took a bus to Science City and then another bus to Sector V in Salt Lake. A day in advance Mondal had checked out the bus options but did not risk travelling on them because they were overcrowded. “On other occasions we travel by bus but I was scared because so many people have been infected with Covid-19,” Mondal said. Not appearing for the exam was not an option for the family because an engineering degree can be a ticket to a job and better life. “I had to give up studies after Madhyamik…. I had to start doing odd jobs because of the financial need of my family. If my son gets admission to an engineering college it will be difficult for me to fund his education but I will still try because it might open up various opportunities,” Mondal said. “Not appearing for the exam would have meant going out of the competition and an end of hope.” Earnings have dropped considerably and life has became “more difficult” because of the pandemic, he said. “I try to give my best and I hope to get admission to an engineering college,” Diganta who scored 80 per cent in the Higher Secondary exams said. The day for Diganta did not end with the exam at 6pm. Both father and son will cycle back to Piyali, even if it is late in the night. Many came in private cars to the exam centre wearing masks and carrying bottles of sanitisers but the father-son duo had a torch with them. The torch that will light up their path as they cycle back to Piyali and then to Gosaba.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-323
03-09-2020||Calcutta||JEE: 75% absent, Mamata asks Centre: Why so obstinate? ||Day 1: 771 out of 2,623 students Day 2: 1,883 out of 3,495 students These are the number of students who appeared for the JEE(Main) exam in Calcutta in the past two days. On Wednesday, 46 per cent of students remained absent for the BE/BTech entrance examinations in the two centres in Calcutta. Chief minister Mamata Banerjee told a news conference that as many as 75 per cent students in Bengal could not appear for the JEE (Main) exam. “I found out that in our state for the JEE exam yesterday, there were 4,652 candidates, out of which only 1,167 candidates appeared, meaning 25 per cent attendance. Around 75 per cent students could not attend in Bengal itself,” the chief minister said, quoting Tuesday’s numbers. Metro had reported on Wednesday that around 70 per cent students had not taken the tests in Calcutta’s two centres in TCS Gitobitan in Salt Lake and the Institute of Instrumentation & Metrology in Belghoria on Day 1. There are 15 centres in Bengal, three of which are in Howrah. The chief minister said students were in “great trouble”. “So many students are being totally deprived. They are not able to attend the JEE exam also. That is why we requested the central government so many times to review the matter again so that students are not deprived,” Mamata said. The chief minister said the state had made arrangements in line with the guidelines but yet 75 per cent students could not appear and were “deprived”. “Why is there so much obstinacy, why is there so much pride, why be a egoist? Who gave them the right to destroy the future of students?” Mamata asked. “The students did not say they will not take the examination. They only asked the exam to be deferred. In the midst of Covid-19 when there is a question about health... to pursue a career, what if life is put at risk? The students only wanted the exam to be deferred and needed some time,” she said. “So, what we had said — was it wrong? We do not conduct the exams, the central government does.… I am feeling sad for the students. I will again ask the central government to review how many students could appear for the exam in different states. They should think about students who could not attend,” Mamata said. At TCS Gitobitan, the JEE (Main) centre at Salt Lake, on Wednesday, 3,376 students had been registered to appear for the exam in the two shifts -- 1688 in each. In the first half, 709 students were absent and 858 in the second half, said officials associated with the exams. In Belghoria, out of the 119 students in two shifts,  74 were present. Some of those who turned up had come from hundreds of kilometres away.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-323
