04-09-2020||Calcutta||Bhanu turns 100||||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-319
04-09-2020||Calcutta||Dressed as first in their fields||As a child I wanted to become a pilot but it didn’t happen. Nonetheless, I got to look and feel like a pilot at a programme to pay tribute to women this year and it turned out to be next to the real thing,” smiled Priyanka Kejriwal, who had dressed up as Durba Banerjee, India’s first woman commercial pilot. Priyanka and eight other women celebrated their gender by dressing up as Indian women who were firsts in their field. The fun project was the brainchild of Namitha R. Dalmia, who runs Ssidhh Studio in Kankurgachhi. The programme took place before the pandemic stalled all activities. “I first picked the personalities I wanted to feature, studied their dressing styles and chose women from among my clients and friends to play them. I assigned them roles as per their figures as it would bear the closest resemblance,” said Namitha, a fashion designer. The participants had a ball. Whether it was AJ Block’s Suman Jhawar who felt all important draping the ghoonghat over her head like former president Pratibha Patil or Suddha Dalmia, who sat behind an autorickshaw wheel to pose as the country’s first lady auto driver Shila Dawre. “We had hired an auto for the shoot and, no, I didn’t try to drive it lest I also stage the first auto accident by a woman!” laughed the lady who had worn a green and yellow salwar to match the colour of autos in the city. Madhu Sureka, smartly turned out in jeans, shades and leather jacket, posed with an Enfield. “I play Roshni Sharma, the first lady biker to ride from Kanyakumari to Kashmir,” said Madhu, who confessed she had to Google Roshni to learn about her. “The lady had a point to prove. Riding was her passion and she didn’t let anyone stop her,” said the lady who runs a boutique. The bike, by the way, was borrowed from the photographer who was covering the event. Rekha Choudhary was flattered when told she would be playing the beautiful Sania Mirza. “My husband and I play tennis and I’ve watched Sania playing too. Her wardrobe, however, is nothing like mine and I had to borrow my daughter-in-law’s skirt to wear for the role. I couldn’t source a nose ring like Sania’s either and I finally resorted to jugaad by using a pin from a chandelier for the job,” laughed the resident of CD Block. To play Saina Nehwal, Sweety Agarwal took tips from her daughter, a district level badminton player. “It was great fun but next time if Namitha holds such a shoot, I would like to pose as Rhonda Byrne, author of my current favourite book The Secret,” said the lady who runs a furniture business. Priyanka jests that she had an upper hand at playing a pilot as she lives so close to the airport. “I can see the airport from my terrace at Ujwala Luxury Complex in New Town and we can hear flights taking off and landing all day. If I was a real pilot I would have travelled the entire world by now.” For those like Indra Choudary, the opportunity was one to live their dreams. “How else could I feel like I’m going to outer space?” asked the lady who played astronaut Kalpana Chawla. She wore an orange sweatshirt and draped a black dupatta in a way that resembled the NASA space suit and let her straight hair down to recreate the iconic picture of Chawla. “I played Anandi Joshi, one of the first lady doctors, and I can only imagine how difficult it must have been for her to fight for an education so many generations ago,” said Usha Saraf, a resident of AJ Block. “She remains a role model for women today.” Rekha does not have a daughter but says has asked her daughter-in-law to do everything she herself wanted and couldn’t. Everyone wanted to know what Namitha, the brains behind this project, would dress up as. “They all thought I would save a beautiful princess-like personality for myself but I told them I’m like a mother to them all. So I dressed up as Mother Teresa.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-319
04-09-2020||Calcutta||CE Block ode to spirit of women||The New Town CE Block Cultural Association celebrated the spirit of women in an all-woman extravaganza. The event was organised by the women of CE Block, for all women, with a view to provide expression against the various atrocities committed against the modern-day women and to celebrate the success of women in various fields. The guest of honour was retired judge Abha Khan who encouraged the women to maintain the trend and enthusiasm. The programme was hosted by Shobhona Roychowdhury and Madhumita Chatterjee, and was inaugurated by a chorus group from the same block. It was followed by a self-composed poem recitation by Satabdi Banerjee. “I like writing so the organsiers requested me to pen something down for the occasion. I wrote on the strength of women,” said Banerjee, a graphic designer. “The concept of equality hasn’t percolated down to everyone in society even in the 21st century. While my husband helps me a lot with chores I know of cases where the husband and wife both work but when it comes to chores, the woman alone is expected to perform them.” Nandita Chatterjee shared with the crowd some information about women achievers around the world and engineering student Srijonee Ghosh danced to the recitation of Ami shei meye by Bratati Bandyopadhyay. “I’ve danced at lots of functions before but this was my first time at an event dedicated to women. I chose this poem as the title is both intriguing and makes a direct connection with women.” There was a distinct effort made by men to ensure that the day belonged to the fair ladies to celebrate their independence. The crowd ranged from five-year-old Aaradhya Roy, to the extremely matured Jayoti Das, all of whom participated in their own way to enlighten the gathering. If you want to get a programme featured in this column, write in to The Telegraph Salt Lake, 6, Prafulla Sarkar Street, Calcutta - 700001  or e-mail to saltlake@abpmail.com||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-319
04-09-2020||Calcutta||Civic body plan for rapid tests||The Bidhannagar Municipal Corporation has decided to increase the number of Covid-19 tests in all 41 wards. A mayoral council member said they are looking to procure rapid antigen test (RAT) kit and test residents focussing on areas like Duttabad, Teghoria, Kaikhali, Raghunthpur, Mongalganthi and several places of Rajarhat that are reporting a steady stream of cases. According to a health department official, the corporation has put in place two testing centres at the Bidhannagar Municipal Sports Academy in Central Park and at Rajarhat near Narayanpur but these are not adequate to conduct tests for the masses. Additionally, the Bidhannagar Sub-divisional Hospital in DD Block has a walk-in swab collection kiosk. Samples from these three centres are being sent to various government-run hospitals that have laboratories equipped for testing. “So far, the councillors were either recommending or bringing specific people of their wards for testing. This has yielded little result as there is a sizeable section that doesn’t want to undergo tests for a variety of reasons. We have come across many people who have had symptoms of Covid but flatly refused to visit the testing centres,” said the official. He said reports often came late and that the time-lag was risky since the potential patient might step out of isolation in the meantime and increase the risk of the infection’s spread. This is one of the reasons the civic body is looking to conduct rapid antigen tests and is also planning to conduct random tests like the Calcutta Municipal Corporation is doing. Chief minister Mamata Banerjee had expressed her concern about the rising number of cases in North 24-Parganas some days ago. As per figures released by the health department, the number of cases in North 24-Parganas is 35,259 with 728 new cases as on September 1. There are three containment areas under Bidhannagar Municipal Corporation — two in Duttabad and one in Deshbandhunagar, Baguiati. NKDA is already conducting free rapid antigen tests in New Town for shop-keepers, domestic helps and toto drivers who could be super spreaders.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-320
04-09-2020||Calcutta||Green dream spread over 12 cottahs||A dumpyard for construction materials with a store of bamboo poles. Ever since they shifted to New Town in 2017, this is the view that would greet Barun and Purabi Basu whenever they would step out of their apartment in AB Block. But thanks to their endeavour, the plot is now a green verge. Their inspiration was a stretch of Gobi Desert where billions of trees are being planted across 13 provinces since 1978 in China’s fight against expanding deserts. “When we were flying back from the US, I kept an eye on the flight path displayed on the screen in front of me. When it showed that we were over Gobi Desert, I looked down. I could surely spot greenery,” said Purabi. The thought inspired the 65-year-old lady. “If they could plant trees in a desert, why can’t we do so on this stretch, I wondered.” Earlier, the Basus used to stay in a garden villa in Baguiati. Then they went to Connecticut, US to visit their daughter. “On our return, we settled in New Town. So this view just across the street used to be an eyesore for us, more so as encroachments were coming up right along the empty stretch,” said Purabi. So she went off to the NKDA office one day to check the map of Street 93. “I put in a request to protect it from shanties. NKDA heeded my request and fenced off one-third of the stretch that was still empty. But the encroachers started drying their clothes and heavy blankets on the fence. Soon the fence broke.” Purabi would send pictures of the stretch regularly to NKDA and keep in touch with the officials. That is how the bamboo fencing got barbed iron wire on the top. “Even then, grass was growing wild inside. And a narrow canal adjoining the stretch, which is the northern boundary of New Town, had turned into a den for mosquito larvae.” At her entreaty, NKDA covered that with concrete slabs. Seeds of ambition The first tree was planted on July 12, 2019 in presence of a monk from Ramakrishna Saradashram and neighbours. The Basus bought 80 trees from the Tall Tree Nursery. “I wanted tall trees instead of saplings as they would help in cloud formation,” Purabi said. The couple footed the Rs 3,500 bill from their own pocket. The first lot of plantation fired their ambition. Some time later, they invested Rs 1,500 in 50 slightly more expensive trees. “The nursery gave us a hefty discount this time though the trees they gave us in the second lot are refusing to grow.” Barun may be 77 years old but he is sprightly. “I still go on treks and avoid taking the lift in my building,” grins the man who can hardly stay seated at one place for long. Till recently, he used to run a free coaching centre on Sundays in the garage space of the apartment where children from underprivileged families, aged three to 14 years, came to study. The Sunday school ran from 9am to noon. In between classes, the children watered the trees. By then, their venture had become locally known and hands were extended in help. A local Rotary club sponsored some trees. A gardener brought 15 mahogany saplings. Volunteers of a residents’ forum gave five guava trees. Some neighbours too planted a couple of betel nut and sal trees. At one side of the 12 cottah stretch, there is a garage for NKDA germicide spraying vehicles. The garage had a water connection. The Basus requested for water to be drawn from there for the trees which was allowed. Even now, they walk into the stretch and inspect each twig for fungal infections and ant attacks.  “I want an orchard to grow here so that birds flock to peck on fruits and nest. Flowering trees would be a nuisance as people would try to climb over the fencing to steal flowers,” Purabi says. The stretch now houses about 120 trees of varied species — neem, banyan, ashwattha, mango, betel nut, chhatim, mahogany and krishnachura. “Somehow, spinach has also started growing here. Women from the shanties enter to pluck the leaves with our permission,” Purabi says. Though classes are suspended, Barun continues to work for the kids. “A neighbour from Utsa Luxury once celebrated his grandson’s birthday with them. Even after the lockdown, we have distributed milk and biscuits thrice among 300 children. We also collected old clothes from the neighbourhood and distributed among them,” he says. His next goal is Sunday breakfast meets for 20 kids. “We can accommodate that many, maintaining social distancing. We will explain to them how coronavirus is spreading and discuss lives of icons. That way they can stay in touch when their regular classes have stopped,” says Barun. Even as he nourishes the minds of young human saplings, his wife keeps an eye on the plot in front. “It feels nice to watch the greenery from the window on waking up. Wish more people offer to plant trees here,” Purabi smiles.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-320
04-09-2020||Calcutta||Plasma donation camp for Covid-free||A blood donation camp will be held with Covid-19 survivors in New Town on Sunday morning. Organised by New Town Forum & News (NTFN), a local social welfare  organisation, and Cenergy, another non-governmental organisation, it will be held at the CB Block community hall. Organisers claim this will be the first such camp outside a hospital in the state which is aimed to help with plasma collection for Covid-19 treatment and research. “We were receiving many requests for plasma donors from friends and relatives of Covid-19 patients. That made us think of holding such a camp. In the meantime, the health department issued an order on August 24 to set up convalescent Covid-19 plasma banks in 20 state-run hospitals. That order also allowed collection from voluntary blood donation camps. So we sought permission from the New Town Kolkata Development Authority (NKDA),” said Samaresh Das, president of NTFN. The State Blood Transmission Control and the blood transfusion cell of the National Health Mission were then approached. The organisers are contacting residents who have recovered from Covid-19 sufficiently early. “We are taking the cut-off date for eligibility to be 38 days from the day of the report coming positive. The other criterion is 28 days after the report coming negative. But now many are not going for a test after they recover,” Das added. Arindam Dutta Chowdhury, who has been a moving force behind the series of blood donation camps organised during the lockdown by the forum across New Town, explained that though the target is plasma collection, the team coming from SSKM Hospital will collect whole blood. “That way the other components can be put to other use, especially platelets which are needed for treatment of dengue, which is also being reported,” he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-320
04-09-2020||Calcutta||BE Block holds Covid Q&A session online||How to handle vegetables that come straight from the market? Does one need to wear a mask while walking in the park? How to disinfect a house? Such many and various questions came up at the webinar organised by BE Block Nagarik Sangha on Saturday. Facing the questions was Sibabrata Banerjee, internal medicine and critical care physician of Fortis Hospital. Banerjee started off stressing on the essential practices — wearing masks, social distancing and frequent washing of hands. “This is an unknown virus. It has already mutated 11 times across countries and climates,” he said. Explaining how its presentation was varying across geographical regions, he said doctors initially were screening for fever as that was the dominant symptom in the West. “But later we realised that most people here, who were later being found to be Covid-19 positive, were coming initially with diarrhoea.” The initial exposure was putting medical practitioners at risk. “There have been situations when a patient has entered my chamber without a mask when I was sitting wearing only an N95 mask (not complete personal protective equipment). I could not scold them,” he said, adding a grim statistic — already 264 doctors have succumbed to Covid across the country. “I am treating Covid patients so I may get infected any day. If I have stayed safe so far, it is only by following the basic safety guidelines.” But while stressing on social distancing, he pointed to the need for social bonding. He shared how panic was making people behave irrationally and insensitively. “An acquaintance, who tested positive, contacted me for a hospital bed which I arranged for. But once she realised that I was treating Covid patients, after getting cured, she called my wife to ask why I was coming home from the hospital!” Though one hardly ever knows when one gets infected, symptoms, he said, usually start appearing from the third or fourth day. “As for those who are being treated at home with mild or no symptoms, a person usually remains capable of infecting others for 10 more days starting from that day. The first Covid-19 detection test should be done on the fourth or fifth day. “ The later half of the discussion was interactive, with residents seeking answers to questions related to the pandemic. (see box) The doctor suggested keeping the government helpline 180031344422 and the local police station contact number at hand. “If you need government help, the police arranges for an ambulance.” His parting advice was not to keep patients aged over 65 years with comorbidities at home unless a doctor specifically allows home treatment with a nurse in attendance. How to handle vegetables and other things that come straight from the market? Vegetables, fish or meat do not transmit the virus. So cleaning them normally should be adequate. Printed materials like newspapers are also not known to be transmitters. Currency notes could be a risk and should be handled with care.  Is it safe to order home-delivered food? Cooked food does not contain the virus but the container in which it is delivered might. So instead of putting the container in the microwave to heat, it is better to put on disposable gloves, take out the food immediately, keep it in utensils and dispose of the container as soon as it arrives along with the gloves.    What should be the hygiene protocol to follow for caregivers coming from outside? He or she should have a separate toilet where he or she should go directly on entering the house. The person should wash his hands and change out of the outside dress and into a set of washed clothes left for him in the toilet. Before leaving, the person should wash the dress and leave it to dry. Since mornings are often cloudy, it is better to keep two sets of clothes in the toilet for the person to use in case the first set does not dry adequately the day after.  How to disinfect the inside of the house? Two chemical solutions are being used — sodium hypochlorite and hydrogen peroxide. You can buy a can used to spray insecticides from a nursery and use it. But spraying hypochlorite will ruin your furniture and wall paint. The buttons of our hospital lifts have lost the digits due to regular spraying. Hydrogen peroxide is slightly better that way. But can you sanitise everything every time? The best remedy is washing hands with soap and water.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-320
04-09-2020||Calcutta||Theft bid reported at Karunamoyee||Two theft attempts on the same night in Karunamoyee’s E Block has left residents jittery. The incidents happened on the night of August 31. Around midnight on Monday, corporate trainer Neena A. Ghosh Roy heard a noise and got up to investigate. Ghosh stays in a flat where construction of new rooms is nearing completion. The family has put internal construction on hold due to the pandemic and no lights have been installed in the newly-constructed rooms. “Although it was dark, I could see that one of the windows of the room facing the elevator shaft was open and a man was peering inside. I immediately started shouting and he disappeared,” said Ghosh. Alerted by her screams, Ghosh’s husband called the police. When the cops arrived, they found a couple of slippers near the landing of the elevator shaft. “In all likelihood the man had climbed up the bamboo scaffolding put in place to facilitate the construction work,” said an officer of the Bidhannagar East police station. Sometime later on the same night, in another E Block building, Sanghamitra Mukherjee, 69, heard a rustling sound coming from outside her bedroom. “As soon as I heard the sound, I woke up and walked out. The construction of a new wing along with an elevator is on at our building and I saw that somebody was pulling out the sheets of plastic sheets covering the scaffolding. I raised an alarm but the person ran away,” said Mukherjee, a former principal of Lady Brabourne College. She said that they were living in fear as her family resides in a ground floor flat and the area around their building has plunged into darkness since cyclone Amphan damaged the streetlights. The police are probing both cases but have not been able to ascertain if it was the same person behind both. Several residents said that police patrolling inside the complex was extremely lax. “There is a police barrack on top of the Karunamoyee Municipal Market but the cops only park their vehicles and reside there. There is no patrolling at all,” said a resident who did not wish to be named. Mukherjee, on the other hand, pointed out that the large housing complex is devoid of security guards. “Most buildings here are getting new wings built but there are no security guards. There are absolutely no checks in place,” said Mukherjee. Another resident said they had to let go of guards as very few residents had agreed to pay for their services. “In the absence of private security guards, groups of young men often park their cars and two-wheelers inside the complex to drink and smoke,” he said. “We cannot protest as we are aged and we don't want to risk any trouble.” An officer of the Bidhannagar Commissionerate promised to increase patrolling inside the complex.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-320
04-09-2020||Calcutta||Platinum rating for New Town||Two years after it won gold certification for being a green city, New Town has achieved platinum — the highest level of certification awarded by the Indian Green Building Council (IGBC). The IGBC is a part of the Confederation of Indian Industry (CII). Formed in 2001, it rates cities as well as buildings, schools, healthcare centres etc on their eco-friendly quotient and had in September 2018 had conferred on New Town a gold certification - the second highest level after platinum. The news was reported in The Telegraph Salt Lake on September 25, 2018. Since the authorities have worked to fill up the lacuna and improve their standing. “We had applied for the certification last year and they began a series of reviews, making observations and recommendations for us to implement. It all happened before the lockdown,” said  Debashis Sen, chairman cum managing director of Housing and Infrastructure Development Corporation (Hidco) and chairman of New Town Kolkata Development Authority (NKDA). Sen last week presented a copy of the certificate to state urban development minister Firhad Hakim. The authorities have worked on pushing new buildings to adopt rainwater harvesting and they are building infrastructure for cycle lanes and electric vehicles. “Parking lots are now required to reserve two per cent space for electric vehicles, we have entered a public-private partnership with a group called EESL (Energy Efficiency Services Limited) whereby they set up and operate e-vehicle charging units at eight places in New Town while paying Hidco a percentage. The project has been successful and they have asked for two more plots for stations,” said Sen. They have also worked to make their pavements wheelchair-friendly and they are developing India’s first Sensory Park for differently-abled children. New Town also scored well due to its waste management and segregation system and the upcoming eco-friendly modes of transport like the Metro and monorail. The only other cities to have received platinum certification from IGBC so far are Chennai, Amravati in Maharashtra and Rajkot and Dholera in Gujarat. The certification is valid for five years. “The platinum certification is the Everest of mountains. There’s no higher peak to scale,” says Sen. “But we shall continue to improve on our practices,”  promised Sen. saltlake@abpmail.com||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-320
04-09-2020||Calcutta||Name of the road||The road along Kestopur Canal, between AB and AD blocks, may be named Barnaparichay Rasta, if the corporation has its way. The naming of the road was ratified at a meeting of mayoral council members of the Bidhannagar Municipal Corporation. According to civic sources, besides renaming the road Barnaparichay Rasta they would install motifs of Bengali alphabets and popular characters from Sukumar Roy’s Abol Tabol along the stretch. “We thought of giving a road in Salt Lake a name as it would help people identify it. None of the roads in Salt Lake have names and it gets difficult for outsiders to navigate or drive inside the township,” said mayor Krishna Chakraborty. She did not explain why the AB to AD Block stretch was chosen when the road stretches from AA to SA Blocks. Nor did she explain why the name was selected. Barnaparichay, of course, is the path-breaking 1855 book by Ishwar Chandra Vidyasagar introducing learners to the Bengali alphabet. September 26 this year would mark the 200th birth anniversary of the educationist and social reformer. Streets in the township are formally known as Avenues and Crossroads — first, second and so forth — they are hardly used by residents. First Avenue would more likely be known as the street from PNB Island to Tank 8, for instance. After coming to power in 2010, the Trinamul-run civic board had wanted to name streets after eminent personalities but the Opposition had pointed out that the major roads in Salt Lake were maintained by the urban development department and Calcutta Metropolitan Development Authority and that the civic body maintains only roads inside the blocks. The project died a natural death. The Telegraph Salt Lake had reported the issue on July 9, 2010. The AB to AD Block stretch is rather green. While one side has homes the other has the Green Verge, followed by the canal and then VIP Road. Grass on the AB Block side of the Green Verge could be trimmed shorter but overall the stretch is reasonably well-maintained. “People used to come here for morning and evening walks but we’ve kept it under lock and key during the lockdown,” said the guard at the AD Block portion of the park. “A side entrance is open only to allow people to use the municipal tap inside.” Some sections of the fence are broken and others have wild growth through them, intertwined with cables overhead. Two vats, however, ruin the view. The one at AB Block was almost empty but some trash lay outside on the road. The vat at AD Block had a lot of branches and leaves spilling out onto the road. While the vat itself was hardly full, the garden waste had covered more than one flank of the road outside. An empty plot at the beginning of AB Block even has a few hutments built on it and if one is lucky, one can spot the beautiful VIP Road flyover on the other side of the road through the trees in the verge here. The junctions of AB-AC blocks as well as of AC-AD blocks have tea shops and rickshaw stands. The state of the road is better than many around the township at the moment. Abhisek Chakrabarti, a resident of AC Block, is tired of telling people he lives “on the khal dhaar”. “People associate the canal with mosquitoes and get a negative first impression of my home,” he says. “Every lane outside Salt Lake has a name and I welcome the idea of having a respectable name for where I live too. It would be easier to give directions to visitors.” Pallabi Maiti, an entrepreneur, too feels the road deserves a better name than “khal paar”. “It’s a good idea but maybe a shorter name would be suitable. Also, Barnaparichay would be a tongue twister for residents who are not Bengalis. Domestic helps and security guards would hardly be able to remember such a long name too,” says the AD Block resident. AD Block’s Saumitra Maiti agrees. “No one understands names like First Avenue and Second Crossroad. Barnaparichay sounds secular and apolitical. But a name should have a link with the road. It’s only names like Mahatma Gandhi Road and Netaji Subhas Road that can be assigned to any street anywhere in the country. So why suddenly Barnaparichay?” Riju Roy, a resident of AD Block, feels the colloquial name “canal side road” is descriptive and functional. “The way renaming Tollygunge Metro station as Mahanayak Utam Kumar led to confusion, so will this. It will be years, if not a generation before people call it Barnaparichay road,” says the IT sector employee. “If it must be renamed, it should be something related to trees, given how green the stretch is.” Another AD Block resident proposes the stretch be called Bhaba Sarani since the Variable Energy Cyclotronic Centre under Homi Bhabha National Institute, is located here. “Besides, I doubt the chief minister will allow such a move. Some years ago water tanks of the township were named but each of them was, not one. They should do the same with roads — all or none,” he says.  “In any case, the major roads of the township are under the CMDA. It is they who can rename the roads and not the corporation.” Others could not care less. “A road by any other name would be just as bad,” AD Block’s Swapan Kumar Brahma shakes his head. “They dig it up to lay cables and move on without covering the ditch. The footpaths have paver blocks but they are so slippery after the rains that no one dares walk on them. Amphan debris are still lying about, residents dump their trash, the statues are cleaned only on the eve of occasions…Will a name change all that?” he wonders. Roy mentions how the new Bailey bridge of AE Block now brings in added traffic to the canal side road. "The road is getting congested and needs better traffic management," he says. Brahma wonders if the christening would have any functional use. Our Islands have statues of personalities now but we continue to call them by their older established names like Island no 3 and 4. Anita Banerjee, also of AD Block, says she doesn't mind a name as long as the street is maintained. "It would be nice to see the jungle outside cleared even if the pujas aren't around the corner. The footpath on the canal side of the street aren't cleaned either," she says. Her fear however is different. As it is we are driven up the wall submitting our KYCs and linking our Adhar cards with various accounts. I don't have the energy now to change my address to Barnaparichay Road on all my documents," says Banerjee. Additional reporting by Snehal Sengupta||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-320
04-09-2020||Calcutta||Brands move to customers’ doorsteps||Retail chains and apparel brands have started holding one or two-day camps to showcase their collections in housing complexes across the city at a time most of their potential customers are scared to step out and visit stores because of the Covid pandemic. Brands like Bata, Pantaloons, Max and Lifestyle have initiated this marketing strategy to reach out to their customers instead of waiting for their customers to reach them. Officials of Bata India Limited said they had covered over the past three weeks around 30 housing complexes, including Upohar Condoville on the EM Bypass and Siddha Pines in Rajarhat, to make up for the loss incurred during the lockdown. “Children’s shoes, slippers and walking shoes were most in demand. Many parents brought their children whose feet have outgrown their shoes. They have been delaying the purchase because of the fear of going to the store,” said Subhasish Chatterjee, senior district manager (retail), Bata India. The company has been fixing sales targets for the teams that organise the events based on the number of flats and their occupancy in a particular complex, Chatterjee said. “It may not be equivalent to the normal sale we have, but this revenue model is definitely more profitable than sitting idle in the stores and waiting for customers. People are more comfortable when we are going to their doorsteps,” he said. The companies are setting up temporary tents or hiring community halls in the housing complexes to display their products to the residents. All lifestyle stores — including apparels, shoes, cosmetics and leather goods — were closed during the lockdown from March and started to reopen only with the Unlock that started in June in a phased manner. However, the footfall across the city stores had been negligible. Officials of Pantaloons (Kankurgachi outlet) said they had started approaching the big housing complexes in the city to boost their sales in the run up to Durga Puja. “We have held a three-day event in five housing complexes till now. Talks are on in a few more complexes,” said Shyamdip Paul, deputy store manager, Pantaloons (Kankurgachi). Paul said they had been maintaining all social distancing norms and also ensuring that no one without a mask was allowed inside the shopping venue. Potential shoppers are being asked to maintain a queue if the number of people in the venue is crossing 20. For several Calcuttans, the chance to shop at their doorsteps has come as a relief after a gap of four months. “I am not comfortable with online shopping. Although my daughter (who lives abroad) had booked a pair of Sketchers for my morning walk, there was an issue with the size and I had to return them. I was so happy to see shoes being sold inside our housing. I could try and purchase one, finally,” said Gopal Mukherjee, who was one of the Bata customers at a south Calcutta housing complex in August. From apparel brands to laptop companies — several have replicated this model. “Initially, bank ATMs, frozen fish and meat carts were coming to our housing. But now even laptop repairs are happening at our doorsteps. The other day, Lenovo (a computer brand) came up with a stall in our housing complex where I could get my old laptop repaired,” said Anirban Bhattacharya, an IT professional who had been working from home over the past few months. However, housing complexes like South City have not been able to allow any of these vendors inside because of their association rules. “We cannot organise any commercial activity in the complex other than for essential commodities. Hence, we are not considering these offers when vendors are approaching us,” said an official of the South City Residents’ Welfare Association.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-320
04-09-2020||Calcutta||Metro date expected after Friday meeting||A meeting between officials of Metro Railway and the state government on Thursday could not finalise the date of resumption of commercial services. A date and other modalities are likely to be announced after another round of meeting on Friday, said state government and Metro officials. “Today’s meeting was positive. The state government has assured us of all help. But some operational modalities are yet to be finalised,” said a Metro official. The state government has requested Metro Railway to run trains on September 13 for NEET aspirants, said the official. “A similar request has also come from Delhi. If commercial services do not resume until September 13, we are likely to run at least some trains for students on that day,” the official said. The focus of Thursday’s meeting was social distancing and crowd control, the two key areas where Metro Railway needs the help of local police. “The idea is to ensure crowd management at the surface gates of stations which are the first entry points. Subsequent checks will be in place at the concourse and on the platform but controlling the crowd at the entry points will be crucial,” said Indrani Banerjee, Metro spokesperson. Once the number of passengers is controlled at the main entrance, the job of managing them at the concourse and on the platform will automatically be easier, said Metro officials. “The RPF can keep a check on passengers on the platform or train but we need the help of the police at the main gates,” said an official. The Unlock 4 guidelines of the Union home ministry had given a green signal for “graded” resumption of Metro services from September 7. The state government had said Metro trains can run in Calcutta from September 8. The entire state will be under lockdown on September 7. The proposals discussed at Thursday’s meeting included keeping only a couple of gates open at every station (one for entry and one for exit) and allowing only a fixed number of people on each train, said another official. The proposals are in alignment with the standard operating procedures announced by the Union urban affairs ministry on Wednesday and a protocol released by the Delhi Metro Rail Corporation on Thursday. A section of Metro officials in Calcutta said each train “should not carry more than 400-450 passengers”. The normal seating capacity of an eight-coach Metro train is around 400. The state government’s team included the home secretary, transport secretary and the Calcutta police commissioner. Metro Railway was represented at Thursday’s meeting by the assistant general manager, chief operations manager and the chief security commissioner.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-320
04-09-2020||Calcutta||Cheaper isotope for PET-CT ||A medical isotope which plays a key role in cancer detection is now being produced on the Variable Energy Cyclotron Centre (VECC) campus and supplied to hospitals at a price cheaper that market rates. The isotope — 18F-Fluorodeoxyglucose (18F-FDG) — is used in a PET-CT scan. The commercial production and supply began in June, when most of the country was under lockdown. Earlier, hospitals and diagnostic centres had to purchase the isotope from private agencies. Ten hospitals in the city are procuring the isotope from the Board of Radiation and Isotope Technology (BRIT), which is producing it on the VECC campus at Chakgaria, off EM Bypass. Among them are Apollo Gleneagles Hospitals, AMRI Hospitals Dhakuria, Quadra Diagnostic Centre, North City Diagnostic Centre, HCG EKO Rajarhat, Spandan Diagnostic Centre on the NRS Medical College and Hospital campus, Netaji SC Bose Cancer Hospital and others. “We have been supplying 18F-Fluorodeoxyglucose (18F-FDG) uninterrupted through the lockdown to these hospitals,” said Sankha Chattopadhyay, scientific officer and head, BRIT, Calcutta. This was echoed by doctors and radiology-safety officers at Apollo Gleneagles Hospitals, Quadra Diagnostic Centre and HCG EKO Rajarhat, the hospitals that have since shifted their entire purchase of FDG to BRIT. “Earlier, we used to procure our supply from a private agency of a US-based company. But now we are shifting our purchase to BRIT because it is made in India and safety and quality are on a par with international standards. Besides, it is about 60 per cent cheaper,” said Debasis Chowdhury of Apollo. BRIT will also supply Gallium-68, another important isotope used specifically for breast and prostate cancer detection. Gallium-68 radioisotope has been successfully produced for the first time in India by VECC and BRIT recently. “We will soon be supplying Gallium-68 to the city hospitals too,” said Chattopadhyay. The medical cyclotron that was purchased from Belgium was set up and made operational by VECC scientists and engineers.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-320
04-09-2020||Calcutta||Signal jump proves fatal for biker at Esplanade||A motorcyclist came under the wheels of a lorry after he jumped a traffic signal at the Dorina crossing in Esplanade and collided with a lorry moving towards Lenin Sarani on Wednesday, police said. The motorcyclist died on the spot. The person on the pillion escaped from being crushed under the lorry’s wheels as he was flung off the two-wheeler on impact and he landed a few metres from Lenin Sarani, the police said. Alauddin Laskar, 23, a resident of Rajabagan, and his friend Abul Jisan Mallick, 20, a resident of Nadial, were wearing helmets when the accident occurred minutes past midnight on Wednesday, a traffic police officer said. “It is clear from the CCTV footage of the area that vehicles on Central Avenue headed towards JL Nehru Road were not moving when the bike sped past them,” the officer said. “The lorry was headed towards Lenin Sarani from the Raj Bhavan end.” The motorcyclist saw the lorry to his right and accelerated in a bid to cross the stretch before the lorry but could not avert the collision, the officer said. “Both the vehicles were moving at high speed… it is clear that neither the lorry driver nor the motorcyclist could control their speed,” the officer said. Laskar came under the wheels, along with the motorcycle. Mallick got saved from being run over as he was flung off on impact, the officer said. Officers from New Market, Hare Street, and Bowbazar police stations went to the accident spot. They could not pull the mangled motocycle out from under the lorry and a crane had to be used to remove the mangled two-wheeler and Laskar. Laskar and Mallick were taken to SSKM Hospital where Laskar was declared dead, the police said. Mallick had to be admitted to the hospital. The driver of the lorry fled after the accident, the police said. A case of causing death by negligence, rash and negligent driving, causing grievous hurt by doing a rash and negligent act to endanger human life and causing mischief has been started against the driver. Laskar used to look after his family’s business of garments. He was headed home with Mallick when the accident occurred, the police said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-321
04-09-2020||Calcutta||Tiger attack in Sunderbans||A man who had ventured deep inside the Sunderbans to catch crabs and fish died after being mauled by a tiger on Thursday morning. Ram Raptan had set out on a small boat with several others from Kumirmari island, a forest department official said. The Indian portion of the Sunderbans encompasses an area of 9,600 square km, comprising 102 islands. Of these, 54 islands — including Kumirmari, which derives its name from the word kumir (Bengali for crocodile) — have human settlements. The rest are thick mangrove forests, home to the Royal Bengal tiger. According to the forest department official, the tiger attacked Raptan from behind inside the Jhila forest. Before the other men could realise what was happening, the animal had dragged him away. The tiger tried to drag Raptan deeper into the forest when some of the men managed to hit it with axes and sticks. “The tiger then let go of Raptan and went away,” said the forest official. Forest minister Rajib Banerjee said the men had ventured deep into the forest when the tiger attacked them. “The men told our officials that they had gone to catch fish,” Banerjee said The lockdown and Cyclone Amphan, which has left most fields and ponds in the Sunderbans inundated with saline water, have resulted in loss of livelihood for many people, according to foresters and people working for the welfare of those living in the Sunderbans. Even inexperienced groups have been venturing into the forests in search of a living, an official said. “Many migrant workers have returned to their villages after losing their usual means of livelihood during the lockdown. Several have fallen back on the forest and have taken to catching crabs and fish in order to make ends meet,” Sagnik Sengupta, a member of Stripes And Green Earth (SAGE), an NGO, said. Members of the NGO had visited several ranges in the Sunderbans to distribute relief materials in the aftermath of Amphan. At least 15 fishermen have already been killed in tiger attacks in the mangroves — two more than the number of persons killed in 2019. This is the official data, the actual number might be higher.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-321
04-09-2020||Calcutta||Stay-put advice for IIT Kharagpur staff||IIT Kharagpur has advised teachers and others who stay on the campus to refrain from moving out of the campus/city “considering the recent increase in the number of cases on the campus”. A notice issued by the registrar of the institute on Thursday seeks support from the faculty and other employees to keep the campus safe during the Covid-19 pandemic. The notice came on a day the number of Covid-positive cases on the campus climbed to 14. If any resident comes from outside, he or she will have to visit BC Roy Technology Hospital on the campus on arrival and mandatorily spend 14 days in home quarantine, the notice says. The first positive case on the campus was detected on August 19. Of the 14 confirmed cases, five are students of the institute. Among the rest are a teacher and her son, who are being treated at a private hospital in Calcutta. “The faculty, staff and others who are staying in the campus are strictly advised to refrain from the movement out of the campus/city considering the recent increase in the  number of cases in the campus. Your help and support may make our campus safe and secure from the COVID-19 pandemic,” the notice reads. Registrar B.N. Singh said the earlier order asking the students and research scholars to leave the campus and head for their hometowns would be in force. “The notice is applicable to those who are residents of the campus. The handful of students who are staying at the hostels have to leave for their hometowns,” Singh told Metro. The students had been asked to leave the campus by August 30. The institute snapped Internet connection to the hostels on Tuesday evening to force those who could not comply with the deadline to leave. An official of the institute said the notice had made a distinction between residents of the campus and the students because residents have to move in and out of the campus for various reasons. “Many of our teachers and other employees often have to visit Calcutta or other places to meet their parents or other relatives. Many visit various markets in the town outside the campus to buy stuff. Such movements are not advisable now,” the official said. Residents are allowed to visit the market on the campus.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-321
04-09-2020||Calcutta||Waste compactor must in new big complexes||Upcoming housing projects with a built-up area of at least 200,000sq ft have to mandatorily create space for a waste compactor station on the plot, the Calcutta Municipal Corporation has decided. The corporation took the decision recently while doing away with the previous rule that gave developers of such projects the option of paying a certain sum if they could not create space on the plot, a civic official said on Thursday. The complexes will have to set up the compactor stations themselves or the CMC can do it against payment, the official said. South City, The 42 and Urbana are some of the housing complexes in the city with a built-up area of at least 200,000sq ft. The changed rule will not be applicable to such complexes that are already completed. It will be applicable to projects that seek the CMC’s approval from now on. “A resolution has been passed in a meeting of the CMC’s board, making the rule mandatory…. Earlier such housing complexes could pay Rs 40 lakh… a sort of compensation… if they failed to provide space for a station,” a CMC official said. Debabrata Majumdar, a member of the CMC’s board of administrators who is in charge of solid waste management, said “the stations would be used to compact the waste generated by residents of the housing society as well as the neighbourhood”. But waste management specialists said compost units would have been better. Composting is a process to make fertiliser out of organic waste such as fruit and vegetable peels and cooked food waste. It helps in the recycling of waste and reduces the volume of waste going to landfills, according to waste management specialists. A compactor, on the other hand, only squeezes waste to make it more compact and reduces the volume of waste without recycling it. “Waste compactors only remove the problem from the streets… what is needed is more stress on recycling, for which waste segregation at source is necessary,” Brajesh Dubey, a professor of civil engineering at IIT Kharagpur who specialises in waste management practices, said. Running a composting unit will ensure that fruit and vegetable waste is turned into fertiliser and the civic body will need to pick up a small fraction of wastes produced in a housing complex. The CMC should have insisted on houses segregating waste into biodegradable (wet) and non-biodegradable (dry), Dubey said. “The solid waste management rules of 2016 speak about waste segregation at source; but compactors create a habit of anti-segregation among people.” If wet waste is segregated and put into a compost unit then there is hardly any need to compact dry waste, which mostly includes plastic products, papers and metals. These can be handed over to agencies that run plants to recycle such waste, a waste management specialist said. The state level environment impact assessment authority had in December notified the construction of a compost plant in projects with a built-up area of at least 200,000sq ft. The notification made it mandatory for the projects to “install onsite compost plant to treat biodegradable waste”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-321
04-09-2020||Calcutta||Farmer sells land to help son fulfil Isro ambition||An unlettered farmer in Murshidabad sold off 10 cottahs of his two-bigha plot last year to pay for his son’s coaching classes. Skipping the JEE (Main) exam was not an option for his son because “a lot depends on this” for the family. Azad Mosarof, 19, and his father Manirul Islam risked the infection of Covid in an overnight journey on a bus, covering more than 200km to reach the city for an exam they hope will ensure a new life for them. Azad is the first in the family to clear the Higher Secondary exams. All his relatives — cousins, uncles and aunts — have either never been to school or dropped out of school. Azad scored appeared for HS from Chhabghati KD Vidyalaya and scored 87 per cent in the exams. His father is a farmer while his mother rolls bidis to supplement the family income. “One day he told me he wants to study in an IIT and that he would need coaching for the exams… Rs 40,000 was required and I had no money; so, I sold off a portion of my land,” Islam said. “Before that day I had never heard of IIT… I had no idea who all study there.” Azad appeared for the JEE (Main) in January and scored a 93 percentile. Many students who are eligible for JEE Advanced based on their scores in the January exam take the JEE (Main) again in September to improve their scores. “There is pressure on me because I know my parents have stretched their limits so that I can study,” he said. “I knew we were exposing ourselves to the possibility of infection by travelling in a bus… but there is no other option,” he said after leaving the exam centre at TCS Gitabitan in Salt Lake. They took a rickshaw from Hasanpur village in the Suti police station area to Chander more bus stop on Wednesday night. The 9pm bus reached Sealdah at 6am on Thursday and they were left with “enough time to reach the centre at Salt Lake”. The exam started at 9am. Exam over, they took a bus to Esplanade and then to Murshidabad. “If he gets through a good engineering college I intend to take a loan. If he wants to study I will do whatever is possible for me to make it work for him,” Islam whose family income is about Rs 5,000 said. “It was not this bad always but my health deteriorated and a lot of money had to be spent on me... before that I would go to Assam and sell shawls and I would earn more than what I do now… but that stopped about two years ago because of my health.” Back in his village it is when he looks at the open sky, Azad is transported to his dreams and that is what pushes him to stretch his limits. “I have always been fascinated by the universe and I want to explore space. I want to go to Isro one day… that is my ambition.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-321
04-09-2020||Calcutta||Catch-up class for Jadavpur University tech students||Jadavpur University will conduct regular classes through “distance digital mode” from September 7 for the BTech students so that students of the intermediate semester can be compensated for the classes they had missed out on in the previous semester because of the lockdown, said a university official. Half the classes of the previous semester could not be held because the campus had to be shut down on March 16 as a precaution against Covid-19. The compensatory classes will be held up to September 25. “Classes for the new semester will start on September 28,” said an official who is also a member of the faculty council for engineering and technology. Another official said that in the “distance digital mode” — already being applied for the compensatory classes for the students of science and arts — materials such as notes, soft copies of textbooks, and audio and video demonstrations would be provided to the students through email and WhatsApp. But students of the engineering and technology faculty wondered how the students who don’t have a mobile phone or cannot afford a data pack would be able to attend classes. “Starting classes without addressing the connectivity concerns will be unethical,” said Aritra Mazumder, the chairperson of the students’ union for the engineering and technology faculty. “We have left it to the teachers to decide how to reach out to the students overcoming the odds,” said an official. “If nothing can be done, then additional classes should be held for these students when they will be handed the devices and the data pack,’’ vice-chancellor Suranjan Das had said earlier.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-321
04-09-2020||Calcutta||Calcutta airport chaos shifts gates||The airport had on Tuesday witnessed congestion at the entry to the terminal and security check counters. On Thursday, the congestion shifted to gate 3C, in front of the ticket counters of various airlines. The airport authorities and airlines deployed additional personnel at the entrances and extra scanning equipment at the security check counters to clear the rush on the second day flights operated between Calcutta and six other Indian cities, including Delhi and Mumbai, since resumption on September 1. Hundreds of passengers on Thursday were found not carrying smartphones or the necessary app and travel documents on their smartphones. These passengers were then redirected to gate number 3C at the departure level of the terminal building, where the airlines have their ticket counters. “These passengers, all first-time fliers, were taken to gate 3C, where airlines helped them with the documents. Those who did not have smartphones and so could not download Aarogya Setu app were given self-declaration forms on their health conditions. Others were helped by airline staff to get web check-in done,” said an official of a private airline. It was taking nearly an hour on an average for most passengers to complete the formalities. “On Tuesday, there was a crowd build-up outside the entry gates. On Thursday, the crowd shifted to gate 3C. Those who had all the documents entered the terminal without any hassle on Thursday,” said the official. On Tuesday, hundreds of passengers missed flights and several flights were delayed because of lack of passengers. Many had blamed the chaos on lack of preparedness on the part of the airport authorities despite the number of departing flights jumping from 60 to 92. Asked about the congestion, an airport official had said on Tuesday: “A large number of the passengers who had booked tickets on resumed flights are first-time fliers. They did not have required documents or apps and that led to congestions at the entrance.” Flights to Calcutta from Delhi, Mumbai, Chennai, Ahmedabad, Pune and Nagpur had been suspended on July 6, following a request from the Bengal government, because of high Covid prevalence there. The flights resumed on Tuesday. Till September 14, the flights will operate on Tuesdays, Thursdays and Saturdays. Later, they will operate on Mondays, Wednesdays and Fridays. After Tuesday’s chaos, officials of the airport and airlines conducted a survey on Wednesday to find out possible solutions. As part of the plan, it was decided that airline employees and security personnel would identify first-time passengers and help them. But that led to the congestion at gate 3C. “We have appealed to the airport authorities to allow these first-time fliers to show their tickets at the gate and enter the terminal. Inside, the airlines can assist them. Inside the terminal there is a lot of space. Because of the congestion at gate 3C, social distancing could not be maintained,” said a representative of the airline operators’ committee at the airport. “The airlines have verbally appealed to us (to relax the rule for first-time fliers). But because this is against the safety norms laid down by the Centre, we need a formal application from them. We will then consider it on humanitarian grounds,” said airport director Kaushik Bhattacharya. The congestion was much less at the security check-in area on Thursday because of additional equipment to scan hand baggage, Bhattacharya said. The number of X-ray counters with faster automatic tray retrieval system was increased from two till Wednesday to four on Thursday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-321
04-09-2020||Calcutta||Supreme Court reprieve for minority schools||Six minority schools in Calcutta can approach Calcutta High Court for a “recall/modification” of the court’s order asking a two-member committee to go through their income and expenditure details, the Supreme Court said on Thursday. Until an order is passed on the application of the petitioners, the high court order will be kept in abeyance, the Supreme Court said. The high court formed the two-member committee after parents of students of 121 private schools sought a fee waiver. They had said they found it difficult to clear the dues because of financial crisis during the pandemic. Six Christian missionary schools run by the Calcutta diocese of the Church of North India (CNI) had moved a special leave petition before the Supreme Court challenging the high court order. The church decided to move the petition because minority schools enjoy financial autonomy to run their schools, a CNI official said. This freedom to minority schools is guaranteed by Article 30 of the Constitution. “The direction to submit the audited books of accounts with income/expenditure statements of the schools causes grave hardship and prejudice to the minority rights of the petitioners who are private unaided minority schools managed and controlled exclusively by the Diocese of Calcutta, Church of North India,” the petition in the apex court read. A special bench of Justice Ahoke Bhusan, Justice R. Subhash Reddy and Justice M.R. Shah of the Supreme Court on Saturday allowed the special leave petition and gave the six schools the liberty to make a fresh application before Calcutta High Court. The apex court was “of the view that looking into the issues, which are involved in the writ petition, the high court may decide all issues at an early date”. The six schools that moved the special leave petition are the two La Martiniere schools, St James’, Pratt Memorial, St John’s Diocesan Girls’ Higher Secondary School and St Thomas’ Church School Howrah. Some of these schools had offered 25 per cent relief on computer fees, sports and games fees and library fees from April to September. The La Martiniere schools do not charge separate fees for computer, library or sports but they form part of the tuition fees charged every quarter. Parents whose children are in the La Martiniere schools could not say if they had received any waiver at all. On July 18, a division bench of the high court, headed by Justice Sanjib Banerjee, had set up the two-member committee to examine the income and expenditure details of the 121 private schools while hearing a public interest litigation. The bench had asked the committee to submit a report to the court after going through the details. The two members of the committee are Suranjan Das, the vice-chancellor of Jadavpur University, and Gopa Dutta, the former vice-chancellor of Gourbanga University. The court had asked the committee to examine the expense and income details of the schools to find out if the institutions had faced any financial difficulty as many guardians were reluctant to pay the fees during the lockdown. The committee can seek the help of chartered accountants for the accounting job, the court had said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-321
04-09-2020||Calcutta||Donor of rare blood rushes at night, saves patient’s leg||A man in his mid-40s hitched a motorcycle ride late on Wednesday and came all the way from Bally in Howrah to SSKM Hospital to donate two units of Bombay blood, a rare type, for a patient who was awaiting a critical operation on his left leg. Nilkantha Das reached the hospital’s blood bank around 11pm, covering a distance of around 18km. By the time he returned home early on Thursday, doctors at the surgery ward had started preparing Montu Sarkar from Amtala, in South 24-Parganas, for the operation. On Thursday afternoon, surgeons stepped out of the operating theatre and informed Montu's family members that the procedure had been successful. Nilkantha, who works in the back office as a member of the sales team of a hosiery group in Sector V, knew he had to respond when a call came from SSKM’s blood bank on Wednesday night. There was a strong stirring inside and he had to go, Covid pandemic notwithstanding. Around 10pm, he called one of his neighbours and rode pillion on his two-wheeler to the hospital. “Since this is a rare blood group, whenever someone requires it, I know what it means. Manusher rokto ta dorkar. (The man requires blood). Er beshi aami kichhu jani ni. (I didn’t know anything beyond this),” Nilkantha said. “I did not have to donate blood earlier during the pandemic. But if it was required, I wouldn’t have hesitated.” Nilkantha’s words offer hope for state-run blood banks across Calcutta that are battling a shortage. The blood bank at the RG Kar Medical College and Hospital, for instance, has 40 per cent less stock compared with the demand. “People are afraid to turn up at blood donation camps because of the Covid-19 pandemic. We are trying nevertheless,” an official of the blood bank said on Thursday. At the SSKM blood bank, the daily requirement is around 350 units. At a donation camp held around two weeks back, a team from the hospital had collected 260 units. “The Bombay blood group is a rarity and people like Nilkantha stand out during these times with their gestures,” said an official at the SSKM blood bank. “We wanted to send him a car at his home. But he refused saying that would mean loss of precious time.” Montu’s family is thankful to Nilkantha for his priceless contribution to the effort to save a part of the left leg of the businessman. The rest of the leg had to be amputated as a part of a pillar of his rented office space in Amtala collapsed. Montu runs a small factory that manufactures mineral water. On July 28, a part of the pillar came crashing down, leaving Montu with gashes on his head and a severely damaged left leg. “He received 23 stitches on his head,” said Biswajit Pal, one of his family members. “Two other persons had donated blood. But Nilkantha’s donation ensured that the surgery could take place.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-321
