05-09-2020||Calcutta||CMC likely to introduce property tax waiver scheme||The Calcutta Municipal Corporation (CMC) is likely to introduce next month a scheme to waive interest accrued on unpaid property tax if allowed by the state government, an official of the civic body said. The authorities hope the waiver scheme would encourage property owners to clear their tax arrears, boosting the civic coffers that have been reeling under the Covid-19 pandemic. An official said the CMC’s income from property tax — its biggest income source —from April to August was 29 per cent less than what was collected in the corresponding period last year. Civic officials are pinning their hopes on the scheme to waive interest to cover the deficit in property tax collection and also increase the collection compared with last year. The CMC had last floated a waiver scheme in 2012 and the response was encouraging. “We have sent a proposal of interest waiver on unpaid property tax to the municipal affairs department. We hope to receive an approval soon so that we can float the scheme by early October,” said a CMC official. “We have proposed a complete waiver of the accrued interest so defaulters can come clean by paying only the principal.” Property tax defaulters together owe Rs 2,300 crore to the CMC. The amount does not include the interest accrued on the unpaid principal over the years. Most of the large tax defaulters are commercial establishments. “The waiver is a win-win situation for both sides. The defaulters look for a way to come clean by paying. If they do not need to pay interest, many of them will be keen to pay the tax arrears. For us, too, it is a good way to recover unpaid tax,” a CMC official said. “In times like now, when revenue earning has taken a hit, this scheme could help us strengthen our coffers.” The civic body’s main sources of income are property tax, trade licences and approval of building plans. The earnings from all three sources have dipped significantly since April, following the imposition of the lockdown to slow down the spread of Covid-19. Property tax collections, however, are ahead of the other two by a significant margin, said an official. Earlier, the civic body had decided to start visiting new housing complexes to help residents understand the nitty-gritty of property tax, in a bid to encourage them to pay their taxes on time. The visits were supposed to start in July but were postponed as Covid-19 cases saw a sharp spike that month. The CMC has also planned to provide a rebate to those who make online payments of property tax but it needs an amendment to the CMC Act, for which the Assembly’s approval is necessary. The civic body’s 2019-20 budget had set a target of Rs 1,021.50 crore as revenue from property tax. The target for collection from building plan approvals was Rs 131.77 crore and that from trade licences was Rs 73.54 crore.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-318
05-09-2020||Calcutta||ICSE YouTube classes for IX-XII students||The Council for Indian School Certificate Examinations (CISCE) will conduct live classes for students of classes IX to XII on YouTube from September 9. Students will be able to ask questions that will be answered by subject teachers immediately after the classes. Students can post their queries on the chat window during the live streaming that will be replied after the classes are over, the council said in a notice issued to schools on Friday. Classes will be held on all major subjects. All schools have been closed since the middle of March because of the pandemic and students have been taught only through the online mode. The council has decided to start live classes considering the problems students who will take the Class X and Class XII board exams in 2021 are facing for not being able to attend regular classes, the principal of an ICSE school in Calcutta said. Experienced teachers will hold the classes, the notice said. During the live classes, the council will share a link to Google Form, in which students and teachers can give their feedback on the classes. The council had taught students of classes IX to XII through TV in April. For students of Bengal, the council had partnered with two Bengali channels to teach English, mathematics and science. The classes had been held for a few weeks. A large number of schools have been doing well in holding online classes, particularly for students who will take the board exams next year, the council said in the notice. “There are an equally large number of schools, which are not able to do so for various reasons. The present situation of the coronavirus pandemic is unrelenting and seems to be getting worse in many parts of the country.” The council aims to reach out to students of all its schools, especially in semi-urban and rural areas, by holding live classes on YouTube, according to the notice. The classes titled, “CISCE Virtual Learning Series” will start with a lesson on the English language for ICSE students on the first day. Students will be taught to write an argumentative essay in the class that will start at 10am on September 9. Students will have to click on the link  https://youtu.be/223JU7PVRjU to watch the live class. The detailed schedule of the classes planned by the council will be sent to the schools after the launch on September 9.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-318
05-09-2020||Calcutta||IIT law school scraps interview due to Covid||The Rajiv Gandhi School of Intellectual Property Law at IIT Kharagpur has scrapped personal interviews for aspirants to the bachelors’ and masters’ programmes because of the Covid-19 pandemic and decided to screen candidates solely on the basis of online admission tests. The school, set up in 2006 to produce techno legal experts through LLB and LLM programmes, had till last year admitted students through an all-India online written admission test and personal interviews. “This year we are skipping personal interviews because that would have entailed visits by candidates to facilities in Delhi, Mumbai, Calcutta and Bangalore. We do not want candidates to travel frequently amid the pandemic. The candidates will be screened solely on the basis of the online entry test,” an official of the school said. The admission test is likely to be held in the first week of October. Shortlisted applicants have to turn up at centres in Delhi, Mumbai, Calcutta and Bangalore to write the test. The test was to be held in April but had to be deferred because of the pandemic. “Domestic flights are now available in greater numbers. So, we have decided to hold the written test,” a professor of the department said. The school has started online classes for the students in the intermediate semesters. “After the tests are held in October, classes for the fresh batch, too, will be held online. We cannot call students to the campus amid rising cases of Covid-19,” said a teacher. Once the test dates are finalised, the candidates will be informed about the centres, an official said. “We will also prepare the safety protocol the candidates will have to follow while writing the test,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-318
05-09-2020||Calcutta||Mother Teresa death anniversary: anecdotes from her life||Mother Teresa, who passed away on this day (September 5) in 1997, is always in my heart. I cannot forget the times my wife and I had the opportunity to be in her presence at Mother House and while accompanying her to her homes for the poorest of the poor. The core of Mother Teresa’s message was not that we should be charitable; it was that we must love. The poor suffer, she used to say, even more from rejection than from the lack of material possessions. Mother had shared with me and my wife anecdotes from her life. Once a gentleman had come to Mother and told her about a family with eight children who had not got anything to eat. Mother had recounted to us the joy she had seen on the face of the children and their mother when they had shared the food among themselves. “I had taken some rice for them. I saw the children, their eyes shining with hunger,” Mother said. Mother divided the rice among the children and left the room. “I didn’t take more rice that evening because I wanted them to enjoy the joy of sharing,” she said. Mother used to speak about the need to share the suffering of people everywhere, not only in the poor countries. She said she found poverty in the West much more difficult to remove. “When I pick up a person from the street hungry, I give him a plate of rice, a piece of bread. I am satisfied. I have removed that hunger. But a person who is shut out, who feels unwanted, unloved, terrified, a person who has been thrown out from society — that poverty is so hurtful. Our Sisters are working amongst that kind of people in the West,” Mother had once said. I remember Mother speaking about her efforts to fight abortion through adoption. “We have saved thousands of lives. We have sent word to all clinics, to hospitals, police stations, ‘Please don’t destroy the child, we will take the child’.” Mother often urged unwed mothers to give their children to the Missionaries of Charity so that they could be taken care of. She had once recounted a story: “One evening we went out and we picked up four people from the street. And one of them was in the most terrible condition. And I told the Sisters, ‘You take care of the other three, I will take care of her’. So I did for her all that my love could do. I put her in bed, and there was such a beautiful smile on her face. She held my hand as she said one word only, ‘Thank you’, and she died.” I distinctly remember when Mother Teresa came to my Eastern Command Provost unit at Fort William in October 1992. Before leaving, Mother asked me if I could send the leftover food to her home for the poor. Mother Teresa always fed the hungry. I salute Mother Teresa who is now a Saint amongst us. Pratapaditya Mazumdar is a retired army lieutenant colonel||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-319
05-09-2020||Calcutta||Resolve Amphan couldn’t break||Biswanath Das, 18, lives in a bamboo house with a tin roof in a village in Kakdwip in South 24-Parganas. The roof came apart during Cyclone Amphan and even now water seeps through the cracks on the roof but the teenager who had scored 97.6 per cent in Higher Secondary managed to keep his books safe and study for the JEE (Main). On Friday, he was at TCS Gitobitan in Salt Lake for the exam he hopes will secure him an entry to an engineering college. “I cannot miss an exam or lose a year.... I have to make it through one of the entrance tests.” Biswanath and his father Samiran Das took a bus to Calcutta from Kakdwip on Thursday. They got off at Esplanade and stayed at a hotel in Kankurgachhi to report to the centre at 7.30 am. “The hotel charged us Rs 1,000. It is a lot of money for me under the present circumstances,” Samiran Das said. Das used to buy whole turmeric from the market and get them grounded into powder before supplying it to grocery stores. “I don’t have the money to buy a machine… so, I used to go to someone who has one and get it grounded there.” Stores have reduced their purchase of turmeric during the pandemic. “People don’t buy turmeric in huge quantities… and now they have reduced the consumption of turmeric. Naturally, shopkeepers, too, are buying less,” Das, who is a graduate, said. “The pandemic has hit us badly. Earlier, I used to earn Rs 7,000-8,000 a month; now, it has gone down to Rs 5,000. I know what education means…. I don’t want my son to make the same mistakes I made,” he said. Das wants his son to acquire a skill so that he is well-prepared even if there are problems in employment. “For the next few years I understand the job situation will not be too good. But if he acquires a skill he should be able to manage and hopefully not struggle to earn.” The family resources are limited but the family hopes that Biswanath gets a good rank and maybe a scholarship. “His school Sundarban Adarsha Vidyamandir has helped him because he was a good student... if he is able to get a good rank I am sure people will come forward to help him,” Das said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-319
05-09-2020||Calcutta||Half of month’s earnings spent on JEE travel||Sheikh Abdul Halim spent about half of his month’s earnings on travelling from Patharpratima in South 24-Parganas to Calcutta so that his son could take the JEE (Main) exam on Friday. Halim, a tailor by profession in Metiabruz, had been earning Rs 8,000 a month till March. But the pandemic has taken away that source of income from him but not the spirit to fight and live. Skipping the exam was not an option for Halim’s son Sahil Ansari and they reached the city in a vehicle with a neighbour from the Digampur area in Patharpratima, even if it meant taking a loan for the travel. “There is no work for three months now.... I might be called back in September but I cannot say for sure,” Halim said. “In between there was some work… but that, too, is gone now.” Halim has to now depend on odd jobs like working in a farm or fishing to make ends meet. Before the lockdown, he worked for six days a week in Metiabruz and returned to Patharpratima for a day with his sons and wife. Halim dropped out of school after Class VIII but he hopes that his son does not have to do that. “When I was growing up we did not get that kind of support to continue with our studies... giving up and starting to work was an easy option.” But he now understands “the value of studies”. “Even for a few thousands I have to take a loan… at least I am trying for my son… we don’t know what fate has in store for him.” Sahil scored 83 per cent in Higher Secondary. “The only target is to get admission to a government college where expenses will not be that high,” Halim said. Sahil had the exam in the second half, after which he and his father returned to their village in South 24-Parganas. “Travelling by bus would have been cheaper but risky during the pandemic... the next exam is the National Eligibility cum Entrance Test (NEET) and I don’t want him to fall sick before that,” Halim said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-319
05-09-2020||Calcutta||Metro yet to decide on resume date||The city’s Metro is still to decide on a date for the resumption of services, even a week after receiving the Centre’s green signal. Metro services in Delhi and Bangalore are set to resume from Monday, the day of total lockdown in Bengal. On Tuesday, the city’s lifeline will have trial runs. The Delhi Metro Rail Corporation has come up with a detailed protocol to resume commercial services. But “crowd control and distancing measures” have stalled the resumption of services in Calcutta. Every Metro agency in the country barring Calcutta’s is a corporation with a limited government stake and increased autonomy. Calcutta Metro is with the rail ministry, which limits decision-making and efficiency. “We were ready to run trains in the run-up to the announcement of Unlock 3 guidelines… by June end, we were ready to resume services on a two-day notice,” Mangu Singh, the Delhi Metro chief, told Metro on Friday. Delhi Metro has 285 stations spread over 389km of tracks. The daily passenger volume was above 1.5 million before services were suspended. Calcutta Metro has 24 stations spread over 27km. The daily passenger volume was close to 600,000 before services were suspended. One meeting after another “We will have dry runs on September 8 and 9. An announcement of the date for the resumption of commercial services is likely after that,” a Calcutta Metro official said after a meeting — the second in two days — with state government officials on Friday. The modalities discussed include developing a system of e-passes and QR codes to be scanned at station gates. The code will be valid for a fixed time. “The government has proposed to develop a system of issuing e-passes to passengers. We will provide the information they have sought,” Metro spokesperson Indrani Banerjee said. The Metro authorities had earlier announced that only existing smart card holders would be allowed access once services resume. A Metro Railway app to recharge existing smart cards is available on Google Play store. On Friday evening, this correspondent was redirected to the Metro Railway website when he tried to recharge his smart card through the app. Smart or un-smart An app to get a Metro train will effectively shut the doors on passengers, including many senior citizens, without smartphones. Metrospeak “I will not be able to comment on other Metros. Each Metro operates under different circumstances. Like three days in the next week are total lockdown days in Bengal. We are working with the state government to resume services,” Calcutta Metro general manager Manoj Joshi said. The government has been asking for the resumption of Metro services for over two months. The government had on Monday issued a notification saying total lockdown remained unchanged (September 7, 11 and 12). The notice said Metro services could resume in a graded manner from September 8. A retired engineer specialising in urban transport questioned the logic of pre-booking Metro slots. “The idea of Metro is a quick ride from point A to point B. Not everyone travels on a fixed route daily on Metro,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-319
05-09-2020||Calcutta||Aerobridge turns PPE changing room, disrupts services||Two aerobridges at the airport had to be closed for more than half an hour on Wednesday because a number of passengers who had arrived on flights from other cities discarded face shields and PPE packets on the floor. Airport officials said the incident happened on the aerobridges at the arrival gates 20 and 24 in the domestic section of the airport terminal. “Some of the passengers had thrown their face shields and PPE packets on the floor of the aerobridges. Our employees had to clean those and sanitise the aerobridges for reuse,” airport director Kaushik Bhattacharya said on Friday. The protective equipment is given to fliers in the middle seats as a precaution against Covid-19. Officials of several airlines said in-flight announcements were frequently made telling passengers to discard face shields, PPE and the packets in which these are handed to passengers at designated places. At the Calcutta airport, the authorities have placed yellow bins in which passengers are supposed to discard the PPE and face shields. The bins are placed in the corridors, which are extensions of aerobridges, and also in the baggage collection area, said officials. “We have about 25 such bins placed in several areas in the arrival section. The number has been doubled recently to further facilitate disposal of PPE by passengers. But despite that, many passengers are throwing them on floors of aerobridges, resulting in disruption to services,” Bhattacharya said. Earlier, there were reports of passengers discarding PPE on the floors of the terminal. Officials said they had increased the personnel strength in the arrival area to boost surveillance on passengers. “Because of increased surveillance, the incidence of PPE being discarded on the floor of the terminal has reduced. But it is not possible to keep people deployed inside aerobridges as well,” said an official.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-319
05-09-2020||Calcutta||Bengal medical body offers instalment option for Covid patient’s kin||The state clinical establishment regulatory commission on Friday thrashed out a settlement between a Covid victim’s family and a private hospital by asking the family to pay Rs 1.2 lakh of the Rs 3.92 lakh charged by the hospital in a supplementary bill, the panel chairperson said. The family has also been given the option to pay the Rs 1.2 lakh in 24 monthly installments of Rs 5,000 each. An 84-year-old woman who had tested positive for Covid-19 died in July after spending two weeks in a critical condition at Ruby General Hospital. The woman’s family had paid Rs 2.25 lakh during admission, the commission said. After she passed away, the hospital handed the family an additional bill of Rs 3.92 lakh, which the family was unable to pay. The total bill came to Rs 5.12 lakh. The family approached the commission saying officials of the hospital had called them up and “threatened” them to clear the bill, retired judge Ashim Kumar Banerjee, the chairperson of the commission, said at a news conference. “Besides the initial payment of Rs 2.25 lakh, the family had also spent Rs 76,000 to buy the medicines the hospital had sought from time to time,” Banerjee said. An official of Ruby General Hospital denied that anyone from the hospital had threatened the family to pay up. “No one from the hospital had called up the family even once after the patient had passed away,” the official said. Banerjee said that during Friday’s hearing, the family and the hospital asked the commission to decide on the matter. “The family said they were from a lower middle-class background and did not have the means to pay the full amount demanded by the hospital. But they also said they wanted to pay the amount justly demanded by the hospital. The hospital, too, urged the commission to decide on the matter,” he said. The commission then asked the family to pay Rs 1.2 lakh. “Both parties agreed to the decision,” the chairperson said. The official of Ruby General Hospital Metro spoke to said they would be in a position to comment on the case after receiving a copy of the commission’s order. The commission on Friday also took suo motu cognisance of a report in a newspaper that named six hospitals that were not displaying the rates for Covid-19 treatment. The commission had earlier issued an advisory asking all private hospitals to display the rates on their campuses. “We have asked the hospitals to file an affidavit,” said Banerjee.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-319
05-09-2020||Calcutta||Banks back to 2 working Saturdays||The Bengal government has allowed bank branches in the state to reopen on first and third Saturdays of the month starting September 5. Also from September 5, business hours of the banks for customers will continue till 4pm, instead of 2pm. The Bengal government had on July 20 declared Saturdays as public holidays for all bank branches in the state under the Negotiable Instruments Act. The government’s order was effective till further change and the State Level Bankers’ Committee (SLBC) had advised the banks on August 13, 2020, that all branches shall remain closed on Saturdays till August 31. There was confusion among customers and bankers whether the closure of branches on Saturdays would be extended to September and this prompted the banks to raise their concern with the bankers’ committee. In a notification issued on Thursday, the state finance department announced that the July 20 notification stood cancelled with immediate effect allowing all branches to function on Saturdays except the second and fourth Saturdays of the month, as was the norm before the restriction was imposed. The SLBC said on Friday banks would resume their normal business hours (10am to 4pm for customers) from Saturday. Earlier, the hours were from 10am to 4pm. “The branches will remain open till 4pm for customers from Saturday. The banks will remain closed only on the lockdown days announ-ced by the state government. Otherwise the banks will function normally. We have sent the instruction to all banks,” said Ashwini Kumar Jha, convenor SLBC, West Bengal. The Bengal government has extended the lockdown in containment zones till September 30 and declared September 7, 11 and 12 as “complete lockdown” days. Sources at Nabanna said the holiday on Saturdays was declared as Covid-19 cases were rising in the state and it was assumed that the disease was significantly spreading from bank branches. “Now, Covid cases are continuously decreasing and bank officials are not being affected as much as in the past month. So, it was decided that the banks should be allowed to function normally,” said an official.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-319
