06-09-2020||Calcutta||Eduguy launches online test on career choice||An online test that will help students determine their career preferences by assessing their interest and aptitude was launched on Saturday evening. Often, students are left “groping in the dark” about making the right career choice, those who conceptualised the test said at a programme attended by students, teachers and principals. The test will give the top-three career choices based on artificial intelligence and machine learning that has been conceptualised and developed by Eduguy, an online platform for career counselling that started earlier this year and IT company IBM. Eduguy is a group company of IIHM. “Sometimes children write all kinds of examinations and choose something where they have qualified without thinking whether it is suitable for them or not. We want to change that mindset,” Suborno Bose, founder and CEO of Eduguy, said. “If somebody’s skill is towards accounting, engineering, data science or cyber security we want to give them suggestions and not force it upon them,” Bose said. The Eduguy Career Predictive Test is a 120-minute test on aptitude, attitude, aspirations and psychometric parameters that will give a report explaining the three career predictions. Joining online was the managing director of IBM, India and South East Asia, Sandip Patel, who said it would give students the right direction. “I think all of us have gone through that predicament… what is the right career… this would be an invaluable tool that would enable all these kids at least to get some guidance,” Patel said. Anyone above Class VIII can take the test. Students can choose to take the test after Class XII as well. The test can be taken by professionals, too, who want to switch careers. “The test is equally relevant for professionals,” Bose said. Patel said: “Skills and renewal of skills, particularly post-Covid, is going to be very critical for everyone.” The test can be taken at www.ecptonline.com. After the test, if a student wants, he/she can speak to career counsellors or psychologists for 25 minutes. This option will be available after three months.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-317
06-09-2020||Calcutta||Covid: Tourism investors run into rough weather||Many aspiring entrepreneurs from the plains who had invested in hotels the hills in recent years mostly because of their love for the region are facing a tough call. Since the hotels have been taken on lease, many are finding it difficult to retain the properties and are being pushed out of the business because of the slump in leisure travel whose end seems nowhere near. Indranil Sen gave up his engineering job to feed his wanderlust. After a stint with a travel portal, he took up a homestay in Kalimpong. “It was taken on a five-year contract. But I was forced to let it go in the fourth year itself after income dropped to zero this summer. There is no chance of a turnaround soon,” said the Naihati man. He also runs a 16-room hotel in East Sikkim. “It is at a height of 7500ft.” Since the area is so remote, the hotels have to shop for supplies for the season in advance. “We shopped for March to May from Siliguri. In those initial weeks, Sikkim had no Covid-19 cases. But when lockdown was declared, bookings got cancelled and we had to throw away the fish and meat. The vegetables were given away to locals.” Lake Gardens resident Indranil Ganguly quit his city job in 2015 and leased a 24-room hotel, Tarayana Grand, in Gangtok in 2016 along with a partner. “It was doing well. But with income dropping to nil this summer, we had to let go of eight of our 12 workers. Four have been retained to maintain the property. We are paying them 60 per cent of the salary and a food allowance.” There have been no bookings for Puja holidays which are usually done by August. Even for Christmas holidays, there have not been any enquiries. Ganguly does not see any improvement till end-2021. “Sixty per cent small hoteliers, with eight to 15 rooms, have quit, I hear. They run the business on rolling capital, investing from their income. Such is the situation, they are looking to cut their losses on the working capital,” Ganguly said. He is unsure what he will do. “Our hotel owner has waived the lease amount for six months. But who will do so for two years?” Shibnath Ghosh, an electricity contractor, wanted to turn his passion into profession and took up a homestay in a Kalimpong village in December. “Soon train service halted because of the citizenship protests.  Just as things were returning to normal in February, the lockdown started.” He has also paid to build a property near Mirik. “This is such a blow at the very start in this business that I cannot even stand up.” Pulak Bhadra, vice-president of the Tour Operators’ Welfare Association of Bengal, points out that the pandemic might have crippled local tourism. ”Those who are forced to give up their leased properties now might not be in a position to acquire another hotel anytime soon. There is an initial investment of Rs 5-6 lakh to get a hotel ready. Where will this money come from?” he wonders. A big impediment to business reviving is transport. “There is just one train – a Covid Special -- now running between Sealdah and Alipurduar instead of 15-16 direct ones. But we cannot have tourism based on one train.” Localised lockdowns are another bother. “I sent one family to Darjeeling in June but the Gorkhaland Territorial Administration ordered a 120-day lockdown.” Another problem is resistance from local residents. “They fear that tourists from Calcutta will bring in the virus. A family was supposed to visit a homestay in Pakhiralay but the Gosaba panchayat issued a ban on outsiders.” Bhadra holds out hope for the newcomers. “Quite a few have joined the business in recent years out of love for nature. They might have their back to the wall now but I’d advise them to grit their teeth for six more months. Once trains restart, there would be 20 to 25 per cent business. And so many are fed up of being locked down that there will be no off season for us once the turnaround happens.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-317
06-09-2020||Calcutta||Sunderban arrest lifts lid on deer meat racket||A man was arrested in a Sunderbans village in the early hours of Saturday with deer meat, a forest department official said. The 40-year-old man has confessed to being part of a racket that killed the deer after catching it using a snare in a forest a couple of days ago, the forest official said. The killing took place in the Ajmalmari forest, around 5km from the Kultali Block in South 24-Parganas. In April last year, the rotten carcass of a tiger was found in the same forest. An investigation had revealed it got caught in a similar snare — a trap to catch an animal by using a noose of wires and a bait — and died of starvation. The forest department got a tip-off about a group hunting animals and selling their meat. A raid last week had drawn a blank, the official said. A couple of days ago, a forest department official went to meet the group disguised as a buyer of meat. After being sure of their presence, a house in Baikanthapur village in the Kultali Block was raided early on Saturday. “One person was arrested. We found 13kg of deer meat with him. He is part of a larger group. We are interrogating him for more details,” the divisional forest officer of South 24-Parganas said. The operation was conducted with the help of cops from Maipith coastal police station, he said. Hunting and eating deer meat can lead to three years in jail, a wildlife official said. The killing has brought to the fore the menace of poachers of small animals in villages in the Sunderbans. After the tiger’s carcass was found last year, similar snares were seized from adjoining forests. People of the villages are involved in the racket of selling deer and wild boar meat, a forest department official said. Forest officials often face resistance in trying to arrest someone after a raid because of the involvement of villagers. Forest officials had been assaulted when they had gone to a village to arrest some of the suspects, a fortnight after the discovery of the tiger carcass. The group that had set up the snare comprised mostly villagers. More than 100 villagers had attacked the forest team. A few arrests had followed the assault. “We will arrest all those involved in the killing of the deer. I have spoken with senior police officers. There will be more raids in the coming days,” V.K. Yadav, the chief wildlife warden of Bengal, said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-317
06-09-2020||Calcutta||Portal to seek doctor advice launched ||People who are wary of visiting a clinic or hospital for fear of contracting the coronavirus can now consult doctors through a website. The Calcutta Municipal Corporation and the Indian Medical Association jointly launched the site, kmc.janupchaar.com, on Saturday. It has a list of doctors who have volunteered to provide free consultation. A person has to register and create an account, for which an email id is needed. Once the account is created, the user can sign in and find out when a doctor is available. But the facility does not have any telephone number where people can book a doctor’s appointment. Santanu Sen, the state secretary of the Indian Medical Association, said there was no plan to introduce any phone number. “There are a lot of people who have some problems like a frozen shoulder but are afraid to visit a doctor’s clinic or hospital. This website will help them,” Firhad Hakim, the chairman of the CMC’s board of administrators, said during the launch. A similar initiative has been taken up by a group of doctors for residents of Salt Lake, New Town and Lake Town. These doctors have started a helpline (7439596460 and 7439598338) where residents who have fever but haven’t been able to get appointments with doctors can call for help and advice. The doctors, working under the umbrella, Protect the Warriors, will hear them out over phone and then WhatsApp them prescriptions.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-318
06-09-2020||Calcutta||Rail ministry ‘nod delay’ held back Metro plan||The Bengal government had told Metro officials more than a month ago to develop technology to control crowd, a senior government official said on Saturday. Metro officials had then apparently cited “the absence of a nod from the Railway Board” to take things forward. Had the carrier started working on crowd control earlier, a system would have been in place by now and services could have resumed from Tuesday, another government official said. “Over a month-and-a-half ago, Metro officials had told us they were willing to resume services if they got permission. We had told them to think about crowd control mechanisms and take the help of technology. But there was no permission from the rail ministry and they did not go ahead with the planning,” the official said. A Metro official confirmed that discussions had been held with the state government in late June for the resumption of services. “The government had offered to depute an agency to develop the technology to control crowd like it is doing now,” he said. “But the Centre did not allow the resumption of Metro services and the technology was not developed.” On June 29, the Union home ministry had issued guidelines that listed Metro among activities that would not be permitted. The guidelines were issued hours after chief minister Mamata Banerjee had said her government would speak to the railways for partial resumption of Metro services to ferry those involved in essential services. The Unlock 4 guidelines announced last Saturday allowed “graded” resumption of Metro services across the country from September 7. Metros in Delhi and Bangalore will resume commercial services from that day. But Calcutta Metro is still to formally announce a date for the resumption of services. The Delhi Metro chief had told Metro on Friday that their infrastructure and crowd control preparations had started long ago and the agency was ready to resume services on a two-day notice before the Centre issued the Unlock 3 guidelines. The lack of such advanced planning has stalled the resumption of Metro services in Calcutta. Even after the Unlock 4 guidelines were announced, Calcutta Metro officials said they could not do anything unless a nod came from the rail ministry, the sole nodal authority of the city’s transport lifeline. Five days after the Unlock 4 guidelines were issued, a meeting took place between state government officials and Metro representatives on Thursday. State home secretary Alapan Bandyopadhyay had presided over the meeting. Earlier, Metro officials had said only existing smart card holders would be allowed to access the services. Metro does not have the technology to keep a real-time check on smart card users entering a station. During the meeting, the state government is said to have asked Metro officials to develop a system for crowd control at the main entrance. “Metro officials said they did not have the technology, following which we offered to develop it,” a state government official said. The system will now be designed by a private developer which had earlier developed a transport app for the state government. The state government had in 2017 launched Pathadisha (pathfinder), an app that tracks state buses plying in Calcutta and neighbouring areas. Supported by the World Bank and developed by a private technology company, the app can help a person search a particular route and track an approaching bus. Friday’s meeting between Metro and state government officials was focused on software development for the new system. A QR code that needs to be scanned at the station gates is being billed as a solution. “The code will be generated much before the travel time. It will change colour every 12 hours,” an official said. But the developer has sought a database of smart card users to design the system. Metro has names of smart card users but not their phone numbers or other contact details. “A lot of hurdles have to be cleared before the system becomes operational,” another state government official said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-318
06-09-2020||Calcutta||Celebration of Father Roberge’s legacy today||A group of filmmakers will revisit the life and works of Father Gaston Roberge, considered a doyen of film studies in Calcutta, at a virtual assembly on Sunday. The Jesuit priest-turned-film academic died on August 26. He was 85. St Xavier’s College (Calcutta) Alumni Association has organised the webinar on the life, works and legacy of Father Roberge. He had founded Chitrabani, a centre for film studies, with the help of Satyajit Ray, in 1970, as an extension service of St Xavier’s College. He remained its director till 1996. Father Roberge taught in the film studies department of St Xavier’s College. Shyam Benegal, Goutam Ghose, Adoor Gopalakrishnan and Buddhadeb Dasgupta will be part of the webinar, organisers said. Film critic Saibal Chatterjee will moderate the programme. The webinar is scheduled at 6.30pm on September 6, Sunday. “It will be telecast live from our Zoom ID and official Facebook page for greater outreach,” a member of the alumni association said. What: Webinar on the life, works and legacy of Father Gaston Roberge When: Sunday, 6.30pm Where: Zoom and Facebook page of St. Xavier’s College (Calcutta) Alumni Association Participants: Shyam Benegal, Goutam Ghose, Adoor Gopalakrishnan and Buddhadeb Dasgupta, moderator Saibal Chatterjee||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-318
06-09-2020||Calcutta||IIT Kharagpur closed to ‘break Covid chain’||The IIT Kharagpur campus will remain closed from September 6-13 or till further notice following an “increase in the number of Covid cases” on the campus. The rise prompted the authorities to introduce the closure for breaking “the chain of spread of Covid”. A notice signed by the institute’s registrar B.N. Singh on Saturday announced the closure. Following the imposition of the closure, no employee of the institute will be permitted to leave or enter the campus till further orders, except for an emergency. Those employees who are outside the campus have been advised to stay put. The entry and exit of employees who are permanent residents of the campus have been barred because the institute wants to break the chain of spread, an institute official said. The institute had on September 2, through another notification, advised the faculty, members of the staff and others to refrain from moving out of the campus/city. “Given a further spurt in cases in between, now a blanket ban has been imposed on entry and exit,” an official said. Many of the teachers and officials travel between Kharagpur and Calcutta to visit their parents or relatives. Many go beyond Kharagpur to buy things. But such movements will not be allowed now, he said. The OPD of the BC Roy Technology Hospital on the campus will remain closed except for the emergency unit till further notice. Retired teachers and officials of the institute stay in a society outside the campus and they keep visiting the hospital to for check-ups and medicines. “But this is being stopped now,” another official said. No members of the faculty or employees will be allowed to enter the academic campus area. No domestic help and gardener will be allowed to enter the campus. All offices of the institute will remain closed, according to the notice. The first positive case was recorded on the campus on August 19 and the number had shot up to 18 by September 4, a surge that prompted the institute to take steps to breaking the chain of spread, an official said. A professor said the delay in asking students to vacate the campus could be one of the reasons behind the spread. Close to 3,500 students stayed on the campus till June 20 when the first order on vacating the campus was issued. “These students did not leave… this meant an assembly, which was not desirable,” he said. Registrar Singh has sought the help and support of the faculty and members of the staff to make the “campus safe and secure from the Covid-19 pandemic”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-318
06-09-2020||Calcutta||Caste-laced shocker in academia ||An associate professor of Jadavpur University who had said on Facebook that an academic year could not be more important than a student’s life was identified by her “Adivasi” background by a student and told in various ways that she was not qualified to comment on examinations. The student who made the comment is from Bethune College, the first women’s college in Asia established in 1879 and considered by many a beacon of liberal thought. The JU history department teacher told Metro that she wanted to be identified by her name, Maroona Murmu, while narrating how as many as 1,500 comments in support of the student flooded her comment box. “I was shocked. I have stopped checking my profile in the face of the barrage from trolls,” Murmu said on Saturday. So shocked was the head of a department at Bethune College that the teacher felt the need to apologise to the JU associate professor. But the head of the department, Sumita Mukhopadhyay, said that she too was trolled so severely for taking a stand that she had to delete the post. The student could not be contacted by this newspaper. The exchange between Murmu and the student took place on September 2, when most people in the country were debating the government’s decision to conduct exams despite Covid-19. Murmu, commenting on a post,  wrote on Facebook: “One year in this long life cannot be bigger than life itself, no exams this time.” The student, who is due to appear for her examinations from October 1, responded with her own comment: “Maroona Murmu, that’s what surprised me…. How could a professor of JU think like that…. I am astonished…. I don’t want to belittle you, but this is the difference between quota and unquota…. You don’t need to be a so-called professor to understand that life is more important than life’s one year…. … The problem is not about missing a year…. It is about progress because of caste and being disadvantaged for life despite having the ability….” She added: “Some people are getting their salaries sitting at home while some parents are having to step out everyday to provide us our meals.” After the rush of support for her, the student posted on September 3 morning: “This morning, just reminded one ‘Murmu’ Santhali in restrained language that she is an Adivasi…. But some uncles and aunts of her age reminded me that some so-called professors sitting at home have grown a thicker layer of fat.” After the student posted her comment, several social media users trolled the teacher. Murmu, who had studied in Presidency College and did her masters’, MPhil and PhD at JNU, said on Saturday night: “The student carries within her a social psyche that needs to be corrected.  She needs to introspect. It shocks me that the comment comes from a student of Bethune College. But what shocks me more is the fact that a group of persons rallied behind her and started trolling me. As many as 1,500 comments were posted in support of her. The fact that people think that this can be done by a student pains me. An organised force seems to be working behind the scenes.” Bethune teacher Mukhopadhyay was alerted about the posts by a relative. “Then I posted on my profile on September 3 that I am apologising to her (Murmu) on behalf of the student for the abusive comment involving the caste identity of the teacher. Moments later, people started trolling me for opposing her. I had to delete the post and explained to Maroona why I had to do this,” Mukhopadhyay told Metro. A statement signed by Partha Pratim Ray, the general secretary of Jadavpur University Teachers' Association, said: “The association unequivocally condemns, in the strongest possible terms, the vicious trolling and hate attacks being carried out on social media against one of its members, Professor Maroona Murmu, of the department of history.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-318
06-09-2020||Calcutta||Homemaker turns idol-maker after husband's Covid death||A homemaker who had seen her husband make Durga idols from a distance for many years has picked up the paintbrush after decades following his death. Piu Pal’s only motivation — to ensure their children can continue with their studies. She has even bagged orders from Durga Puja organisers who do not want large idols but want it something different this time. And the mother of two sons knows exactly what she has to deliver. Some of these organisers have been placing orders with her husband Arun Pal for years. She would watch them turn up at their Kalighat studio, explaining the themes to her husband and the kind of idols they were looking for. When Pal died of the coronavirus in July, she decided to step in. Their sons are still in school. Avirup is a Class XII student while Antarip is in Class VI. Continuing with their education meant Piu returning to something she had always held close to her heart: being an artist. “When some Durga Puja organisers came looking for my husband, I wasn’t sure what to tell them. I spoke to my sons and realised I had to take the call for them,” she said in between her meetings with puja organisers on Saturday afternoon. “It had never occurred to me that one day I would manage a team of 20 workers, giving shape to Durga idols. It was always Arun’s job. I used to watch from a distance.” On September 4, the family prayed for Pal, exactly two months after his death. In this period, she has received orders from at least 30 puja committees, including Ballygunge Cultural, Adi Ballygunge, Durgabari, Vivekananda Sporting Club and Behala Friends. On Saturday, Piu, in her early 40s, had held a few rounds of meetings with her team of workers and Pal’s studio had come alive with the familiar sight of Durga idols being made. Pal hailed from a family of artisans. His father Amar Nath and brothers still work on idols. A few years after their marriage in 2002, Pal moved out of the joint family and set up his studio in Kalighat’s Patuapara. Piu started assisting her husband, shuttling between Behala where they stayed in a rented accommodation and Kalighat. “Till 2016, I used to accompany him to various puja pandals to understand their themes. “From the pandals I would head home and he would return to the studio,” Piu said. “Now when my sons wait at home I try explaining that it’s for them.” This year, as organisers started pouring in, Piu realised the pandemic had forced everyone to cut down on budget. The allocation for idols has been drastically  reduced. “People are saying they want smaller idols that would be easy on their budgets. Ora bolchhey kuri tey kuri (They said 20 in 20),” Piu said. “The challenge is to make Durga idols within Rs 20,000. It’s a near impossible task.” Every day Piu sits down with her team to work on various shapes according to the themes. Everything, from deciding on measurements to building structures using straw, mud and bamboo is discussed in detail before work begins for the day. Late in the evening, when Piu heads home to Behala for dinner with her sons, she knows what she has delivered for the day. “Piu has picked up Arunda’s style very fast. We have always been a Arun da loyalist and it feels great to see his wife build the idol for us this year,” Sandipan Banerjee of Behala Notun Dal puja committee said. “This year, it will be a mother’s tribute to the Goddess mother for us.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-318
06-09-2020||Calcutta||I have a nightmare||A blind girl sits on a raft made of discarded plastic bottles floating in depressing green waters. One end of the raft has a rope affixed. A woman who might be the girl’s mother — there is no way of knowing for sure as there is no dialogue or text on screen — pulls along the rope even as she braves the waters to move through a cityscape. The viewer will recognise the outline of Howrah Bridge, of Victoria Memorial, the stretch that is Park Street. The familiar markers in an unfamiliar and the most extraordinary state achieve the same effect as apocalypse films. According to Kalp Sanghvi, 26, who has made Wade with Upamanyu Bhattacharyya, 28, the 10-minute animation film belongs to the genre “climate change horror” or “ecological horror”. The storyline is simple: pushed by climate change, the rising sea has taken the city hostage. Human beings have been driven out of their habitat and so have the tigers. And when they come face to face, a tussle for survival breaks out. A quiet urgency imbues the animated characters. The man who leads the humans has a mask covering the back of his head; it is meant to trick the tigers into thinking they are being watched. The soundtrack enforces the doomsday effect. Bhattacharyya reasons, “We wanted it to be like a horror film where climate change is the ghost or villain.” According to Wade’s creators, the trigger for the film was a 2015 newspaper report on the sinking and shrinking Ghoramara islands of the Sunderbans and climate-change refugees. Says Bhattacharyya, “It shocked us to know that the islands were beginning to go under water because of climate change and not because of tidal activities. People were being displaced and rendered homeless. People being forced to move as a direct result of climate change is worrisome.” Sanghvi adds, “We thought it is already happening, Calcutta is next.” The film is at once a creative exercise and a red flag. The attention to flesh out the locale is deliberate; it is meant to enforce the urgency of the situation. “Park Street is such a happening part of the city. Imagine it being under water... The pink board of Flurys is a reminder of all the happy times,” says Sanghvi. Frames change. A pack of tigers appears out of the water taking the humans by surprise. The humans counter with knives and sharp-edged sticks. The leader of the man-pack is killed. An infant bawls and for fear that the noise will draw the attention of the tigers, it is drowned. The baby struggles a bit and then goes still. A tigress delivers a cub. A tiger is killed and the humans cut its limbs and eat the flesh. To work out the consequences of the imagined state of the city, the duo read books, surveyed the city on foot, photographed it extensively. The film was ready by November 2019 after a crowdfunding campaign wherein Bhattacharyya and Sanghvi achieved their target of Rs 4.5 lakh in under three days. For the next three months, they travelled with Wade all over the country for screenings at private venues for a select audience. In May 2020, it premiered at Germany’s Stuttgart Trickfilm International Animated Film Festival. Audiences, however, seem to have taken note of Wade only post the supercyclone Amphan that ravaged Bengal in May. It seems many sent in photographs of the post-Amphan scene and pointed out the similarities with the film. The visuals from Wade show how the bustling metropolis has been reduced to a silent swamp. Garbage all around. Crocodiles lurking on the main thoroughfares. Frogs in front of the Metro station. Crows cawing ominously, buildings overgrown with shrubbery, waterlogged streets, abandoned railway stations and deserted tram depots. Says Sanghvi, “People think they have enough time to figure out (climate change) just because it is not visibly affecting us. One does not realise that time is passing, climate change is creeping into our lives and soon we will have to face the consequences.” Would they reimagine the film if given a chance, post Covid-19 and the cyclone? The duo says, “We wouldn’t, because people haven’t changed much even after it.” In the film, a snake slithers past an electricity box plastered with torn posters that read, “Climate change is a lie, AC install.” Bhattacharyya calls both the virus and the supercyclone “tips of the iceberg”. He says, “It is inevitable. You may disagree about sea level and by how much it is expected to rise, but what cannot be contested is that people are going to lose their homes, their livelihoods and be forced to move.” He adds, “We know an animated short film cannot alter the way people think about climate change, but it is time to wake up.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-318
