07-09-2020||Calcutta||Murder arrests from within family||Two family members of the 30-year-old man who was found dead in his room earlier last week in Topsia have been arrested in connection with the murder. The two accused are the victim’s uncle Chandan Rajak, 49, and sister-in-law Priyanka Rajak, 29. Police said the two had different motives for the murder. On Tuesday morning, Abhijit Rajak, 30, who worked in a hotel, was found murdered in his home on Gobra Goroshthan Road, where he lived in a joint family. He was found dead on his bed with injury marks on his head. A blood-stained shovel was found in the room. Investigators said it was apparent that the family members who were home when the youth was murdered were aware of the crime but had initially kept quiet. “Findings of our investigations suggest that more than one family member was involved in the crime. We came to know during a prolonged interrogation that the victim’s uncle, Chandan Rajak, had a property dispute with the victim’s father. Later, Chandan admitted that he wanted to eliminate Abhijit because the youth would have inherited their ancestral property had he been alive. Chandan wanted the entire property for himself,” said an officer of Topsia police station. “Priyanka, wife of Abhijit’s cousin Somnath, has also confessed to the crime. Priyanka alleged that Abhijit used to give indecent proposals to her and other women members of the family. The allegations are yet to be verified.” The police said that after committing the crime, Chandan threw two cycles of the family into an adjoining water body to make it look like a “murder for gain”. The cycles were recovered on Friday. Chandan and Priyanka have been booked for murder, voluntarily causing hurt for robbery and common intention.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-316
07-09-2020||Calcutta||IIEST survey lays bare digital divide ||A section of students at the IIEST could not attend online classes in the last semester because of poor Internet connectivity at home, says a survey conducted by the authorities of the Shibpur institute. The authorities launched the survey to collect information about the students’ ability to attend online classes in the autumn semester on the basis of their experience in the previous semester. The feedback from 1,830 of the total students reveals that as many as 15.5 per cent of them could not attend online classes in the last semester and 18.3 per cent faced problems because of “poor” Internet connectivity at home, said an official of the institute. The responses from a group of 1,200 students showed that 13.2 per cent of them could not download lectures from the institute’s website and 29.8 per cent could download only partially. Apart from poor connectivity, a section of the 1,200 students cited lack of a smart device as a reason for not being able to download lectures. A group of 917 students responded to the query “How do you rate your experience of online teaching?”. An official said 10.1 per cent of the students rated online teaching as “poor”. The institute has been following a combination of live online classes and letting students download recorded lectures and study materials from the institute’s website in the autumn semester, which started on August 24. This model is being followed as classes cannot be held on the campus because of the Covid-19 pandemic. As students of the institute come from a wide spectrum of geographical locations across the country and Net connectivity is not always up to the desired level, the institute felt the need to carry out the survey. “As students had vacated the hostels in mid-March, before the start of the lockdown, some of the classes in the previous semester were held online. The students last month were asked to fill in Google forms to share their experience of attending classes online,” he said. IIEST director Parthasarathi Chakrabarty said the institute was speaking to teachers to chalk out what remedial measures could be taken. “We could buy the poor students devices such as tablets. As long as the institute will continue to hold online classes, the students will not have to pay Rs 17,500 as mess advance, Rs 3,000 as mess entrance fee, Rs 1,000 as seat rent and Rs 800 as electricity and water charges. They can buy a high-speed data pack with the saved amount,” said Chakrabarty. The institute is also trying to contact telecom service providers to help out students who are struggling with poor connectivity at home, said an official.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-316
07-09-2020||Calcutta||Tiger claims third victim in four days||A fisherman who was part of a team that had ventured inside the Sunderbans forests to catch crabs died after being attacked by a tiger while he was cooking on the bank of a creek on Sunday morning, a forest official said. This was the third death from tiger attack in the Sunderbans in four days. The official said Gopal Baidya, 57, and two other men had left Satjelia village in the Gosaba block, South 24-Parganas, on a small country boat to catch crabs in the narrow creeks of the mangrove delta. Baidya was killed by the tiger in the Jhila 6 forest. Two other men lost their lives in the same forest area after being mauled by tigers on Thursday and Friday. Forest department officials said the body of Baidya could not be recovered as the tiger had dragged him deep inside the mangroves. “The tiger attacked Baidya from behind. The other fishermen tried to scare the animal off but it dragged Baidya deep inside the forest,” an official said. V.K. Yadav, the chief wildlife warden of Bengal, said: "We are tracking the developments closely and taking all measures. Fishermen have been alerted and we always ask them not to get off their boats and step on banks or embankments,” said Yadav. The Sunderbans field director, Tapas Das, said the men, like others, had ventured into a narrow creek to catch crabs. According to Das, the forest department carries out regular awareness drives and requests those venturing out into the forest not to catch fish or crabs in the creeks as the tigers can easily swim across and attack them. “The creeks offer more in terms of catch but fishing or trapping crabs there is extremely risky,” said Das.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-316
07-09-2020||Calcutta||Covid: 2-week comorbidity survey starts today||A survey to identify Calcuttans with comorbidity will begin from Monday. The Calcutta Municipal Corporation will complete the survey in its 144 wards in 14 days, a CMC official said on Saturday. The surveyors will visit households on Sundays and on days of total lockdown and on holidays, too, the official said. The surveyors will record a person’s name, age, contact number, and if he/she has cancer, diabetes, heart or kidney disease, hypertension, respiratory disease, liver disease or tuberculosis. The surveyors will carry forms with them to mark if a respondent has any of these diseases, the official said. If the respondent has any other disease, he/she can mention that. “We will not take any other details like how long a person has had the disease. The surveyors will only check the box against the disease a person has,” the official said. These diseases impact the working of vital organs and a new infection can create more trouble for a person, Anirban Dalui, a public health specialist, said. “Some of the diseases that are not mentioned in the form can be psoriasis that impacts the joints and rheumatological diseases. Respondents should tell surveyors about their chronic diseases, if any.” Metro had on Wednesday reported that the CMC would conduct a comorbidity survey from next week. The start date had not been decided then. On Friday, a webinar was held to discuss the modalities of the survey and the start date was finalised. Medical officers in charge of the CMC’s health services in each of the 144 wards attended the webinar. “Since more people stay at home on holiday or lockdown days, we felt there is no point taking a break on these days. On a weekday, we may not get all members of a family,” said an official. The CMC will deploy over 3,000 health workers for the survey. Once the survey is over, the records will be digitised. The records will be available with the state health department as well as the doctors of the CMC. When information about someone testing positive for Covid-19 reaches the borough health officer or the ward medical officer — both of whom are doctors — they will check the database to see whether the person has comorbidities, the official said. “When someone with comorbidity tests positive, the ward medical officer will be extra cautious. If it is found that the person is aged over 70 and has comorbidities, the medical officer may advise hospitalisation,” a CMC doctor said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-316
07-09-2020||Calcutta||Mosquito traps in New Town||The New Town authorities are installing four “mosquito magnets” in open public places in all three action areas in an attempt to bolster their efforts to fight dengue, an official of the New Town Kolkata Development Authority (NKDA) said. Such a device releases a mix of propane and carbon dioxide to attract female mosquitoes and trap them. The NKDA had conducted a pilot study by installing a device in a park in the township. “A vector control team and an entomologist constantly monitored the device. It was found that the device was quite effective in keeping the mosquito population in check. After that we decided to install more such devices,” the official said. One of the four mosquito traps has been set up in Eco Park. The others will be installed in the open-air theatre of Nazrul Tirtha, the lawn of Rabindra Tirtha and in Eco Urban Village. “All these are open public places. We do not want visitors to these places to be inconvenienced by mosquitoes and exposed to the threat of being infected by the dengue virus,” the official said. The dengue virus is spread by the Aedes aegypti mosquito. NKDA chairman Debashis Sen said they had embarked on the project as newer technology needed to be adopted in the fight against dengue. “The fight against Aedes aegypti mosquitoes is quite difficult as they can breed in very small pools of water. We need all the help we can get and these devices have proved to be quite effective,” Sen said. An entomologist at NKDA said the device released small bursts of carbon dioxide at fixed intervals. Female mosquitoes get drawn by the smell of carbon dioxide and head towards the device, which has a concealed net attachment. "Once they fall inside the net attachment, they die,” the entomologist said. Propane acts as propellant for carbon dioxide. The NKDA is also clearing vacant plots of garbage and bushes and cleaning drains regularly to bolster the fight against the winged menace, an NKDA official said. A daily report on plot-by-plot survey, cleaning of canals, spraying of larvicides and awareness campaign is being filed by vector control teams and their supervisors.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-317
07-09-2020||Calcutta||Jadavpur University plans home reach to bridge divide||Jadavpur University is planning to deliver question papers of end-semester exams to and collect answer scripts from the homes of students who lack a smart device or Internet connectivity, an official said. The other students will receive the questions through group email or WhatsApp and send the answers through these services. The possible models were discussed at the faculty council meeting of arts and science on Sunday. “The models will have to be approved by the university’s exam board, which will meet this week,’’ the official said. The Supreme Court in a recent judgment set aside academic institutes’ decision to publish results on the basis of weightage to the performance in previous semesters and scores in internal assignments. The court upheld the UGC’s directive that graduating students have to write an examination. Since students could not be asked to come to the campus to write the test because of the Covid-19 pandemic, JU is thinking of innovative models such as sending employees to the houses of students struggling with poor Net connectivity to deliver question papers and collect answer scripts. “The exams will have to be held overcoming the digital divide,’’ the head of a department said. JU vice-chancellor Suranjan Das said: ’The exam board is likely to meet on Monday or Tuesday. An elaborate arrangement will be made so the students do not face any problem writing their papers.” A student may not have access to a computer or smartphone because of financial constraints or may have connectivity issues in the aftermath of Cyclone Amphan, which flattened large stretches of the Sunderbans and other places in south Bengal, a JU official said. The university could send men in vehicles to the houses of students living in adjacent districts such as North and South 24-Parganas to deliver question papers and collect answer scripts. If a student lives in far-off places like Birbhum or Bankura, employees will travel by train. The university has students from Kashmir, which has been facing problems over Internet connection since it lost its special status in August last year. Those who have access to the Internet will receive questions by email and WhatsApp and have two hours to write the answers. The answers will have to be sent back the same way. “They will have another hour to send the answers through the same services. If required, a student can write the answers on a script and get the copies scanned or take photos of the scripts on the mobile camera and send them through email or WhatsApp. That’s why an hour is being given to send the answers,’’ a teacher at the university said. Jadavpur University is planning to deliver question papers of end-semester exams to and collect answer scripts from the homes of students who lack a smart device or Internet connectivity, an official said. The other students will receive the questions through group email or WhatsApp and send the answers through these services. The possible models were discussed at the faculty council meeting of arts and science on Sunday. “The models will have to be approved by the university’s exam board, which will meet this week,’’ the official said. The Supreme Court in a recent judgment set aside academic institutes’ decision to publish results on the basis of weightage to the performance in previous semesters and scores in internal assignments. The court upheld the UGC’s directive that graduating students have to write an examination. Since students could not be asked to come to the campus to write the test because of the Covid-19 pandemic, JU is thinking of innovative models such as sending employees to the houses of students struggling with poor Net connectivity to deliver question papers and collect answer scripts. “The exams will have to be held overcoming the digital divide,’’ the head of a department said. JU vice-chancellor Suranjan Das said: ’The exam board is likely to meet on Monday or Tuesday. An elaborate arrangement will be made so the students do not face any problem writing their papers.” A student may not have access to a computer or smartphone because of financial constraints or may have connectivity issues in the aftermath of Cyclone Amphan, which flattened large stretches of the Sunderbans and other places in south Bengal, a JU official said. The university could send men in vehicles to the houses of students living in adjacent districts such as North and South 24-Parganas to deliver question papers and collect answer scripts. If a student lives in far-off places like Birbhum or Bankura, employees will travel by train. The university has students from Kashmir, which has been facing problems over Internet connection since it lost its special status in August last year. Those who have access to the Internet will receive questions by email and WhatsApp and have two hours to write the answers. The answers will have to be sent back the same way. “They will have another hour to send the answers through the same services. If required, a student can write the answers on a script and get the copies scanned or take photos of the scripts on the mobile camera and send them through email or WhatsApp. That’s why an hour is being given to send the answers,’’ a teacher at the university said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-317
07-09-2020||Calcutta||Foreign flight plan for Calcutta||Several airlines have scheduled international flights to Calcutta following the state government’s approval to operate non-chartered flights from other countries, provided only those who test negative for Covid-19 are allowed to board the aircraft. In July, the Bengal government had asked the civil aviation ministry to stop evacuation flights from international destinations after hundreds of passengers had refused to go to a paid quarantine centre after landing in Calcutta and gone home instead. Any flight from an international destination needs a no-objection certificate from the state government. “The state government is giving approvals to airlines applying to operate incoming international flights with the condition that passengers have to test negative for Covid-19 within 96 hours before departure. Once all passengers are booked and their test results available, the airline has to upload the data on the state government portal,” said an official of a private airline. “Several airlines are applying for slots…. Our infrastructure in the international section is ready,” said airport director Kaushik Bhattacharya. Airport and airlines officials said the state government was giving approvals for evacuation as well as air transport bubble flights. SpiceJet and Emirates have opened bookings for flights between Calcutta and Dubai under the air-transport-bubble arrangements, said airport officials. Air transport bubbles are temporary arrangements between two countries to restart commercial passenger flights because regular international flights are suspended as a precaution against Covid-19. A civil aviation ministry official said to book a seat on an evacuation flight under the Vande Bharat scheme, mostly operated by Air India, passengers need approval from the central government. “But in air-transport-bubble flights, anybody can book a seat,” said the official. “We have opened bookings for flights under air-transport-bubble between Calcutta and Dubai on September 17, 19, 24 and 26. We are expecting good bookings,” said Debjit Ghosh, regional sales head (east), SpiceJet. Airport sources said Emirates airline, too, had applied for slots for three flights in September. Metro had in August reported that airlines and travel agents’ associations had appealed to the state government to allow resumption of international flights. Initially, the state government was allowing chartered flights to operate. “Tickets on chartered flights are expensive and many cannot afford. A seat on a chartered flight from Dubai to Calcutta would cost around Rs 70,000. But on a flight on the same route under air transport bubble, the one-way fare is around Rs 25,000 and on some days, even less,” said Anil Punjabi, chairman, east, Travel Agents Federation of India.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-317
07-09-2020||Calcutta||Waste split order for Calcutta complexes||All housing complexes in the city have to segregate waste at source or pay a fine, says solid waste management bye-laws for Calcutta that the state government notified last month. The bye-laws also make it compulsory for anyone organising a gathering of 100 or more people in an “unlicensed place”, which can be a house or a ground in the locality, to inform the Calcutta Municipal Corporation about the event. Community halls are not on the list of “unlicensed” places. The organisers of such events must ensure that waste is segregated before it is handed over to municipal solid waste cleaners. The residents’ welfare associations of housing complexes, with help from the CMC, have to create a mechanism for waste segregation, a civic official said. The civic body will implement the bye-laws. “All resident welfare and market associations shall, in partnership with KMC, ensure segregation of waste at source by the generators, facilitate collection of segregated waste in separate streams, handover recyclable material to either the authorised waste pickers or the authorised recyclers,” says Chapter III of the bye-laws. The waste has to be segregated into three categories and put in different bins -- biodegradable or wet waste in green bins, non-biodegradable or dry waste in blue bins and domestic hazardous waste in black bins. A housing complex that does not segregate waste will be fined Rs 300 the first time, Rs 500 the second time and Rs 700 for every subsequent violation. “We will not fine a complex without giving it the time and opportunity to introduce the segregation culture,” a CMC official said. Any individual who holds a gathering of 100 or more people and does not segregate waste will be fined Rs 200 the first time, Rs 300 the second time and Rs 400 for every subsequent violation. Biodegradable waste will be collected by CMC teams every morning. “Agencies empanelled with the state pollution control board will collect domestic hazardous waste and non-biodegradable waste. We will provide contact details of the agencies to the residents’ welfare associations,” the official said. “Only a handful of complexes segregate waste. The rest dump all kinds of waste together,” the official said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-317
07-09-2020||Calcutta||Saviour recounts tale of horror||Deep Satpati, a private firm employee, his wife Nilanjana Chatterjee and their daughter were returning to their home in a residential complex on the EM Bypass near the Prince Anwar Shah Road connector crossing on Saturday night when they heard a woman screaming from inside a Honda City car. Deep stopped his Maruti Suzuki Alto car, blocking the way of the Honda City, while Nilanjana got down to see what had happened. Nilanjana, who is in hospital with a fractured shin bone,  and Deep narrated their experience to Metro on Sunday: Nilanjana Chatterjee When I heard a shrill voice crying for help at that hour of the night, I realised it was a woman. It immediately made me think of my daughter, seated with us in the car. She is 23 years old and we have brought her up with lots of love and care. I realised that as a mother, I had to help someone who is not much older than my daughter. I asked Deep to stop the car at any cost. It was coming from behind us. At that hour, Anandapur didn’t have too many people on the road. The headlights seemed to blaze through the darkness and as the car caught up, the screams of help became more loud. It was a Honda City and a woman was shouting from inside the car. Deep pulled back and parked the Alto across the road. The Honda City stopped and one of the front doors was flung open. A woman was pushed out and she fell on the road. When I reached her, she held me. The woman was weeping and she  kept saying “amake baachaan”. I realised I had to protect her as a mother. I think I will be back on my feet again. But at least I have been able to save the dignity of someone who is almost like my daughter. That is the only solace for me despite the excruciating pain in my leg. After dumping the  woman, the driver suddenly pulled back and took a U-turn. The left front wheel struck my wife’s shin bone and the car’s bonnet hit her head. Nilanjana slumped on the road. Her head had a deep gash and it was bleeding. By the time I could gather myself and I was about  take down the car's number, the Honda City had sped away. Both the women were crying in pain. I dialled 100 and was connected to Anandapur police station. A police team reached. I realised I had to carry my wife and the woman to a hospital. So I ran to Ruby General Hospital, the one that was nearest to me at that hour. At the hospital gates, the guards said they did not have any ambulance to help me. I re-dialled 100 and broke down. I told the officer, crying, that my wife and another woman needed to be admitted to a hospital and there was no ambulance in sight. The officer then connected to a sergeant of Kasba Traffic Guard. He arranged for an ambulance — KARMA (Kolkata Accident Rescue and Medical Attention) — from Parama Island. I admitted the two to Ruby Hospital. The shin bone has suffered a compound fracture and Nilanjana has received  stitches on her head. Late on Sunday evening, doctors told me she has tested negative for Covid and her operation is slated around 11 on Monday morning. The woman told me she worked in a private bank in Calcutta. She said: “Aami aapnake shob rokom sahajjyo korbyo. Kintu amar identity ta reveal korben na, please (I will help you in every way). Please don’t reveal my identity).” Even as I tried pacifying her, I realised that it could have been my daughter. If, as a daughter’s father, I don’t come forward to help another woman, who will? Nilanjana and I have this habit of reaching out. Around four years ago, we had gone out for a drive at night. While driving down near VIP Bazar opposite Calcutta International School, we found a car stuck on the divider on the Bypass. We stopped and reached the driver. The man said he was chased by a car and his car smashed into the divider. Even as he was stuck there, some miscreants snatched his bracelet and other valuables. We reached the man to his house in Triangular Park. The next morning, he called up and said: “Please forget the incident. Nothing had happened to me.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-317
07-09-2020||Calcutta||Neglected lights put Salt Lake at theft risk ||Five theft attempts at Karunamoyee Housing Estate in Salt Lake’s ED block over the past few nights have left residents jittery. While three theft attempts took place on Saturday night, two were reported on the night of August 31. Residents said the street lights damaged by Cyclone Amphan on May 20 are yet to be repaired or replaced. The neighbourhood plunges into darkness at night, making it easier for thieves to strike. On Saturday night, Soham Chakraborty, a resident of ED block, said he saw a man with a backpack climb over the main iron gate of a building that his flat overlooks. He said he was talking on his cellphone while standing near a window of his third-floor flat when he saw the man try to jump over the locked gate. “I immediately started shouting and the man ditched his attempt at scaling the gate and ran,” Chakraborty said. Another resident said she saw a man with a backpack slung over his shoulder scale the boundary wall of the complex and run away. Around midnight last Monday, corporate trainer Neena A. Ghosh Roy heard a noise and got up to investigate. Ghosh stays in a flat that is undergoing renovation. “Although it was dark, I could see that one of the windows of the room facing the elevator shaft was open and a man was peering inside. I immediately started shouting and the man disappeared. It was very scary,” said Ghosh. Alerted by her screams, Ghosh’s daughter and husband rushed in and called the police. When cops arrived and looked around the flat, they found a couple of slippers near the landing of the elevator shaft. “In all likelihood the man had climbed up the bamboo scaffolding put in place to facilitate construction work,” said an officer of Bidhannagar East police station. Later the same night, Sanghamitra Mukherjee, 69, heard a rustling sound coming from outside the bedroom of her ground-floor flat in an E Block building of Karunamoyee Housing Estate. “I woke up and walked out. The construction of a new wing along with an elevator is on at our building and I saw that somebody had been pulling out plastic sheets covering the scaffolding. I raised an alarm but the person ran away,” said Mukherjee, a former principal of Lady Brabourne College. She said they were living in fear as the area around their building has been plunging into darkness after sundown since Amphan damaged street lights on May 20. Sudhir Saha, the mayoral council member in charge of lights and parks of the Bidhannagar Municipal Corporation, said the contractor who repaired lights in the area had fallen sick. "Besides, most of his men have gone back home to Bihar. We are making do with very few people. I will ensure that the lights are repaired in the next few days," said Saha. The police are probing the theft attempts but have not been able to ascertain whether it was the same person or gang behind all. Several residents said police patrolling inside the housing estate was lax. “There is a police barracks on top of the Karunamoyee Municipal Market but... there is no patrolling at all,” said a resident who did not wish to be named. A senior officer of the Bidhannagar Commissionerate said that they would intensify patrolling inside the housing complex.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-317
07-09-2020||Calcutta||Family rescues woman molested inside car||A 31-year-old woman was allegedly molested by an acquaintance inside his car late on Saturday night and then thrown out onto EM Bypass, police said on Sunday. A mother travelling in another car with her family responded to the cry for help from inside the car at 11.50pm and got off to help the victim, a bank employee. But Nilanjana Chatterjee, the woman who had stopped to help, was left with a fractured leg and gash in the head when the assailant’s Honda City hit her during his hasty bid to flee. The bank employee, allegedly molested in the car near the Ruby intersection, had a swelling in the head from a wound and face injuries. Nilanjana was returning home with husband Deep Satpati and their daughter from her mother's birthday dinner at the Abhyudoy Housing Complex off EM Bypass at Anandapur. When the couple heard a woman scream for help from a car behind them on an otherwise deserted stretch, Satpati pulled over. “I realised that as a mother, I had to help someone who is not much older than my daughter,” Nilanjana, who is in hospital, told The Telegraph later. Satpati had positioned his Maruti Alto in a way that the Honda City would be forced to slow down. “Probably realising he was trapped, the man opened the front door and pushed the woman out,” a police officer said. “The road was deserted," Satpati recalled. “Nilanjana got off and walked to the left side of the Honda City, where the woman had been thrown out. As the Honda City made a U-turn to escape, one of its front wheels passed over Nilanjana’s left leg and the car’s nose hit her head, leaving her with a deep cut.” Satpati added: “Everything happened so fast that I couldn’t note down the car’s number.” Officers said the victim had told the police she had recently met the accused, who had introduced himself as Amitabha Bose, and had gone out for a drive in his car on Saturday night. Investigators have detained a man in connection with the case. The police have learnt that the woman hails from north Bengal and lives in rented lodgings in the city. They said she had told the police that trouble began when she asked to be dropped home. “According to the woman’s statement, she could sense danger when the man refused to take her home right away. As the vehicle was passing in front of the Abhyudoy Housing Complex, the woman again sternly asked him to drop her home,” an officer at Anandapaur police station said. The man then allegedly molested her and hit her, prompting her to cry out for help. Nilanjana said the victim was shivering in fear as she held her tightly. “I tried consoling her even after the car ran over one of my legs.” With both women crying in pain, Satpati dialled 100 to alert the police. Officers from Anandapur police station arrived quickly, while a traffic sergeant arranged for an ambulance. Sources said footage from the spot purportedly shows a Honda City passing a housing complex in one direction and, about a minute later, passing it again from the opposite direction at high speed. An official at the Ruby General Hospital said doctors had recommended that the woman undergo a CT scan and an X-ray but she refused and was allowed to leave in the presence of the police. He said Nilanjana had suffered fractures in her left tibia and fibula and would need surgery.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-317
