08-09-2020||Calcutta||Partha Chatterjee airs NEP worry||The Centre should give priority to Covid-related matters during the pandemic instead of holding discussions to implement the National Education Policy, education minister Partha Chatterjee said on Monday. The policy “tries to dilute the country’s federal structure”, Chatterje said after taking part in a virtual interaction on the policy with Prime Minister Narendra Modi, President Ram Nath Kovind and Union education minister Ramesh Pokhriyal among others. “It maybe appreciated that in the current pandemic situation, Covid-related issues should get utmost priority. At a time Covid-19 is raging, they (Centre) are giving emphasis on discussing the National Education Policy,” he said. “But they are not giving any priority to how the spread of Covid-19 can be prevented. They are not giving any priority to how loss of lives can be prevented and the health of common people protected. This should have been discussed first. We have told the President it was high time that discussions were held on Covid-19.” The policy is centralised in nature although education comes under the concurrent list, minister Chatterjee said. “It tries to dilute the federal structure of the country, which is guaranteed in our Constitution, by trying to prescribe almost everything centrally.” Minister Chatterjee wondered whether the 6 per cent of the GDP would be adequate to meet the goals set in the pol-icy and said it was unclear how the fund sharing would take place. “There is no clarity on the issue of fund sharing,” Chatterjee said. A state government official said: “Until we manage to overcome the onslaught of Covid, we will not be left with enough resources to spend on this project. The Union government should be realistic.” Chatterjee said the Bengal government had “strong” reservations about the common test concept at the national level for admission to undergraduate courses, multi-layered undergraduate courses, and discontinuation of MPhil courses — some of the changes that have been enumerated under the policy. “We, therefore, request the Centre to provide us with appropriate time to present our complete views,” he said. Sugata Bose, the Gardiner professor of Oceanic History and Affairs at Harvard University, had written in The Telegraph on August 17, describing the policy as a recipe for unenlightened over-centralisation. He wrote: “The announcement of the policy bypassing Parliament and any real consultation with the states is one more brazen and cynical attempt to advance the ruling configuration’s ideological agenda under the cover of Covid-19. It is a recipe for unenlightened over-centralisation.” An official of the higher education department said: “No one knows when the academic session will start. At a time like this, Covid-19 should be the first and only priority for any such interaction at a forum like this.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-315
08-09-2020||Calcutta||Work paucity pushes woman to death by suicide||A 24-year-old woman was found hanging in her rented accommodation in Jadavpur on Sunday. Police identified her as Bithi Mondal. Preliminary investigation suggested she had committed suicide, the police said. Mondal, who hailed from Joynagar in South 24-Parganas, did some modelling jobs and had enrolled in an air-hostess training course at a private academy, the police said. “She worked with a couple of event management companies. She was depressed as her work was not going well because of the pandemic,” an officer of Jadavpur police station quoted Mondal’s sister as saying. No suicide note has been found, the officer said. Mondal used to stay in a rented flat in Samajhgarh Park. “She was found hanging from the ceiling fan with a dupatta around 4pm on Sunday. The door was bolted from inside. She was declared dead at Baghajatin State General Hospital,” the officer said. An officer said investigations did not reveal any foul play. “No complaint has been received from anyone so far. A post-mortem will be conducted to ascertain the actual cause of her death.” The police have started a case of unnatural death. The pandemic has crippled livelihoods. Several companies have stopped spending on publicity. As a result, event management companies are hardly getting contracts. “Many struggling models and actors from districts share rented apartments in Calcutta. For starters, modelling is a low-paying job. The pandemic has only made things worse,” the owner of a Calcutta-based event management firm said. “Television shooting remained suspended for a long time. Many struggling models have returned home because they are unable to pay rents. Many have returned to Calcutta from other cities.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-315
08-09-2020||Calcutta||St Xavier’s College sets rules for exams||St Xavier’s College will conduct the final semester undergraduate and postgraduate exams. Students will have to write and upload answers within six hours of the start of the exam. Questions will be “analytical” that require original thinking of the students as they will not take the test sitting on the campus, Father Dominic Savio, the principal of St Xavier’s College, said. Question papers will be mailed to students half an hour before the start of the exam. The question papers will have an email address to which students will have to mail back the answers. The email addresses will vary from department to department to avoid disruption when too many students upload answers at the same time, a college official said. Students can key in answers or write them in A4 sheets. In case any student is unable to upload the answers because of Net connectivity problems, they can courier it to the college. The college had conducted a survey to find out how many students could find it difficult to take the exams for want of a smart device or because of poor Net connectivity. No student had complained of such problems, the official said. “The exams are for three hours; students will get another three hours to upload the answers in case they face connectivity problems on the day of examination,” the principal said. If students type in their answers on a word document, they will have to create a PDF, name it, attach it as a document, and mail it to the address provided in the question paper. If they use pen and paper, they will have to scan the pages “chronologically and sequentially” and convert the pages into a single PDF document and mail it, the principal said. The exams will carry 80 per cent as is the rule. The remaining 20 per cent is on internal assessments. The question pattern, though, will be different from the usual tests.
Multiple-choice questions have been included in all subjects, along with short and long-answer questions. “Students will not write the exam on the campus. So, we have decided to bring in some changes in the question pattern. Questions will be set in such a way that they will demand original thinking and analytical ability of students,” Father Savio said. But the number of alternative questions will be much more this time. The alternative questions have been substantially increased, considering the stressful situation students are going through at present, the principal said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-315
08-09-2020||Calcutta||Facebook alerts cops; dad averts son’s suicide ||A man who was unaware of his son trying to commit suicide in the next room foiled the suicide bid after police alerted him early on Monday. The youth had posted his video on his Facebook timeline saying he was going to kill himself with a sharp weapon, prompting the Facebook authorities to report it to the city police’s cyber cell. The police received a mail from Facebook around 1.36am on Monday, giving details of the person and the contact numbers attached with the profile. Cops scanned the numbers and found one of the SIM cards was registered in the youth’s name. They zeroed in on the phone’s location — a place in Nadia district. “We managed to get hold of the phone number of the youth’s father and contacted him in less than half an hour after receiving the mail from Facebook. His father was clueless and he immediately rushed to his son’s rescue,” a detective department officer said. After speaking to the youth’s father, the city police alerted Bhimpur police station in Nadia and sought their help in the rescue. The youth’s father, along with cops, broke open the door to his son’s room and found him unconscious. He was taken to a government hospital in Nadia where he was treated for “superficial” wounds. The youth’s family has apparently told cops he has been depressed for the past few years and that he had tried to kill himself in the past as well.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-315
08-09-2020||Calcutta||Filmmakers pay tribute to Father Gaston Roberge||Father Gaston Roberge: father of film studies, great lover of Calcutta, the founder of a first-of-its-kind film centre and the proponent of seeing Indian cinema in an Indian context. The many facets of Father Roberge were relived on Sunday evening as a group of filmmakers paid their tributes to the Jesuit priest-turned-film academic who died on August 26. He was 85. Filmmakers Adoor Gopalakrishnan, Buddhadeb Dasgupta and Goutam Ghose were among the participants in the virtual session, moderated by film critic and journalist Saibal Chatterjee. Gopalakrishnan described Father Roberge as the pioneer of film studies in eastern India before listing his “very very important” contribution. “I had very few opportunities of meeting him…. But I knew about him because he is the one who started film appreciation as a subject of study in the eastern part of India, particularly in Bengal,” Gopalakrishnan said. “Original Indian work is not very accustomed to the West. This I have understood from the experience of my life.... Father Gaston Roberge has really contributed a great deal to the fact that Indian cinema has to be understood against the perspective of our culture. That’s very very important. “When you see a small thatched house, you don’t see facilities attached to modern life; you seem to consider them poor. As long as the person gets what he needs, he is not poor…. Despite not having all the facilities of modern life, people are not unhappy. They are happy with what they have. Our greatest contribution… renounce, and be happy. This has to be understood.” The webinar on the life, works and legacy of Father Roberge was organised by the St Xavier’s College (Calcutta) Alumni Association in association with The Telegraph. The event was supported by the Film Federation of India. Father Roberge founded Chitrabani, a centre for film studies, with the help of Satyajit Ray, in 1970 and remained its director till 1996. He taught in the film studies department of St Xavier’s College, Calcutta. He was the founder-director of the UGC’s Audio Visual Research Centre, which later became Electronic Multi Media Research Centre under St Xavier’s College, Calcutta. Father Roberge lived on the college campus and for the past few years had been in the infirmary for priests. “Father Roberge was a French-speaking Canadian from Montreal. He developed love, attraction and respect for India and its people since his formative years. He was highly impressed by Tagore’s Gitanjali and that might have been the reason for him to volunteer for India in general and Calcutta in particular as a young priest,” Father Dominic Savio, the principal of St Xavier’s College, said in his introductory address. He spoke of Father Roberge’s association with Satyajit Ray. “He watched Apu’s Trilogy on the eve of his maiden journey to Calcutta 60 years back and that had made an indelible impact on his mind… he had deep respect for Satyajit Ray…. He waited for many years to learn the Bengali language and get acquainted with the Bengali culture to have a meaningful discourse with Ray on hisfilms. He met Ray and became friends and author of books on the legendary filmmaker,” Father Savio said. Ghosh said Father Roberge was an “inspiring figure for filmmakers like us”. “He believed that you have to study cinema, learn cinema just like you learn a language and grammar. You have to know about great filmmakers and what they did.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-315
08-09-2020||Calcutta||Coast guard chases and nabs boat with smuggled clothes||A couple of Indian Coast Guard hovercraft and a fast interceptor boat chased down a fishing boat that was smuggling into the city a garments consignment, a coast guard officer said on Monday. The coast guard had received information from the customs department that a fishing boat would be used to smuggle into the city a large consignment of clothes from Bangladesh, the officer said. Coast guard officers started monitoring the movement of all vessels along the coast near Calcutta and in the Hooghly channel. On Monday, they spotted a fishing boat moving suspiciously along the Hooghly channel off Geonkhali near Haldia. Two hovercraft and a fast interceptor boat were pressed into service. The crew of the fishing boat beached the boat near Diamond Harbour and fled, the officer said. The clothes have tags similar to well-known brands, a customs official said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-315
08-09-2020||Calcutta||Car falls into VIP Road canal, 1 dead||A 32-year-old Dum Dum resident was killed after the cab he was travelling in rammed into the culvert of the Kestopur canal on the airport-bound flank of VIP Road and plunged into water around 2am on Monday, police said. Ratan Das, an ambulance driver, was headed home to Dum Dum’s Rabindranagar and was on the rear seat, an officer of the Bidhannagar commissionerate said. He got trapped inside the vehicle when it submerged in the water. The driver managed to get out of the vehicle and fled on foot, the officer said. “The car was speeding and the driver lost control. There are no signs on the road such as tyre marks to indicate that the driver had braked to avoid ramming into the culvert,” the officer said. “A probe has been started to track down the driver. We have got in touch with the owner of the vehicle to find out how long the driver was at the wheel at a stretch.” Metro visited the accident spot on Monday morning and found that the culvert on VIP Road appears suddenly after a smooth wide stretch. The road forks into a Y and can take those who are not used to driving down the stretch by surprise. There are no signs on VIP Road warning motorists about the culvert. There are no reflectors or reflective paint on the wall of the culvert. Guardrails fitted with reflective tapes were erected only on Monday afternoon. A couple of vegetable sellers who were on their way to a wholesale market in Rajarhat rushed to the Baguiati traffic guard nearby and alerted the cops about the accident. A crane was deployed and it took more than 30 minutes to take the vehicle out of the water.Das was lying slumped on the back seat. He was taken to a nearby nursing home, where he was declared dead. Shimul Mondal, one of the vegetable sellers who alerted the cops, told this newspaper that he saw the car hit a concrete slab of the culvert before falling into the water. “I rushed there but realised that I will not be able to do anything as the car was at least five feet below the road’s level and was sinking. I alerted the cops,” said Mondal.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-315
08-09-2020||Calcutta||Fish fingerlings to save Sunderbans from net effect||Around 20 families in a Sunderbans village will get fish fingerlings to be reared in five ponds. The conservationists and foresters behind the project are hoping that the scope of an alternative livelihood will prevent the families from carrying on an old fishing practice that makes the riverbeds more prone to erosion and also increases the risk of man-wild conflict. During low tide, large fishing nets are cast along exposed or shallow river bed (chor) and across creeks (khal) inside forests. The water incursion during high tide leads to a haul of fish — big and small — trapped in the nets. When the water recedes, the nets are taken away by fishermen. When dragged manually, these nets — many of them spanning over a kilometre — destroy numerous mangrove saplings swept onto the river bed by tidal waters. Mangroves are known for viviparous germination where seeds germinate and develop into saplings while still attached to the parent tree. Sapling-bearing fruits shed by mangroves are washed away during low tide and brought to the land during high tide. Back on land, they form mangrove colonies over a period of time. “People are dependent on these practises to earn livelihood. But in the process, they are damaging the delicate ecosystem of the Sunderbans. Storms have depleted a sizable chunk of the mangroves. The destruction of saplings is making river beds more barren and prone to erosion. The nets across the creeks inside the forest make people more vulnerable to tiger attacks,” said Suvrajyoti Chatterjee of Human and Environment Alliance League (HEAL), the NGO that is providing the alternate livelihood to the families. At least 17 fishermen have been killed by tigers in the Sunderbans this year. The pandemic has robbed people of livelihoods and more people are turning to fishing, said foresters and activists. The families getting the fingerlings are from Purba Gurguria village in Kultali block of South 24-Parganas. Indigenous catfish fingerlings will be released into five ponds in the village, each to be looked after by four families. “We are releasing 60,000 fingerlings, 12,000 for each pond,” said a HEAL volunteer. A forest official who had helped in the project said the project could be implemented on a larger scale across the mangrove delta. “This should have been done much before. But the challenge is to keep the fishermen away from river beds and creeks for the next six months — the time taken for the fish to grow in the ponds,” said the official. “We go fishing, risking our lives, to run our families, not because we love going there. If there is another way of earning, I will not go fishing,” said Amalesh Bhunia, a beneficiary of the project.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-315
08-09-2020||Calcutta||Leave ‘highly risky’ campus: IIT to students||IIT Kharagpur has requested the 60-odd students still on the campus to leave at the earliest as it is “highly risky” to stay in hostels amid the Covid-19 pandemic considering the “stressed and insufficient medical facilities” in the town. The dean of students’ affairs at the institute, Somesh Kumar, has written to the students saying: “Due to stressed and insufficient medical facilities in Kharagpur, it is highly risky to stay put in hostels. I again request all of you to please make arrangements to reach your home and stay with your family members as early as possible.” A spike in the number of Covid cases on the campus has prompted the IIT authorities to shut down the campus at least for a week till September 13. The dean’s letter follows a joint appeal from research scholars to director V.K. Tewari on Sunday that the students who had gone home be called back and research activities resumed as soon as possible. An official said the dean in his mail had drawn attention to the rising case count on the campus as well as immediate surroundings. Besides, the outpatient department of BC Roy Technology Hospital on the campus has been closed till further orders. “The dean is justified in saying that the medical facilities in Kharagpur are insufficient,” the official said. South Eastern Railway Main Hospital, about a kilometre from the IIT campus, is operational but had to be closed for a few days earlier after several doctors and nurses tested positive. “There are hardly any beds in the state hospital outside,” the dean has written, referring to Kharagpur Subdivisional Hospital near the campus. Midnapore Medical College and Hospital is about 17km away. A West Midnapore district official denied any paucity of Covid beds. But many on the campus said they were still reliant on hospitals in Calcutta for critical treatment. A scholar said their appeal to the director to let research resume followed an order from the ministry of home affairs on August 29 that said higher educational institutions would be permitted to function only for research scholars and postgraduate students of technical and professional programmes requiring laboratory/experimental work. A professor said the order was not applicable to the IIT because of a steady rise in the number of Covid cases on the campus and outside. Close to 3,500 students were on the campus till June 20, the day the first order on vacating the campus was issued.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-315
08-09-2020||Calcutta||CMDA seeks nod for Chhath at Rabindra Sarobar||The Calcutta Metropolitan Development Authority (CMDA), the custodian of Rabindra Sarobar, has filed a review petition at the National Green Tribunal seeking a “special permission” to allow Chhath Puja at the Sarobar. The tribunal has banned any kind of puja celebrations on the 192-acre Sarobar campus.The authorities had locked the gates of the Sarobar on the day of Chhath Puja last year but thousands of devotees broke open the locks and entered the premises. A CMDA official said their petition before the NGT was a “suo motu” action. The official was asked why the CMDA, whose duty as custodian is to protect the sprawling water body and the surrounding greens, was seeking a relaxation of the ban. He said the agency was doing so because the matter involved “the emotion of lakhs of people and the CMDA was not in a position to stop a mob” from entering the premises. “We are not a law enforcement agency. From our experience last year, only a lathicharge or use of force could have stopped the people from entering the campus and we did not want that to happen,” a CMDA official said. State urban development and municipal affairs minister Firhad Hakim told Metro: “Yes, we have filed a review petition for allowing Chhath Puja at Rabindra Sarobar. We do not want police to use force on people coming to participate in a religious programme.” There are many who have been performing Chhath Puja rituals at the Sarobar for decades and the authorities did not want to hurt their sentiments, Hakim said. In its petition, the CMDA says it took all possible steps to improve the condition of the Sarobar and reduce pollution. The review petition, filed early last month, is likely to be heard towards the middle of this month, a source said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-316
08-09-2020||Calcutta||Four-hour surgery to fix saviour’s leg||The 48-year-old woman who showed exemplary courage and saved a younger woman who was allegedly attacked and thrown off a speeding Honda City on Saturday night underwent a four-hour surgery on Monday. Nilanjana Chatterjee will have to spend a few more days in complete rest at the hospital before doctors make her walk again with support. She can only be discharged after at least a week, doctors have told the family. Returning back to normal life will take a few more months. An official of Ruby General Hospital, where Chatterjee is admitted, said the surgery was done to fix the tibia and fibula bones of her left leg, both of which broke after the Honda City ran over her leg. “The doctors inserted titanium rods, plates and screws in her leg to fix the bones. She is doing better and has been taken out of the intensive care unit. She also underwent a plastic surgery as a portion of the skin tore open and the interior of the leg got exposed when the car ran over her leg,” said the official. Nilanjana’s husband Deep Satpati, who was at the hospital, said that a longer battle for recuperation would now begin. “It was a long surgery. Surgeons told me they had to carry out grafting of several injuries of the bone. She needs to be in the hospital for at least a week,” Deep said. He was speaking around 4.30pm, shortly after Nilanjana was wheeled out of the operating theatre. The couple’s daughter, who works for an e-learning platform, was present at the hospital. “It will be another battle now till Nilanjana can stand on her legs and walk. Doctors have warned that there should not be any infection,” Deep said. “There are a few spots which have been left open. Doctors said if they had closed them, the skin below would have started to rot.” The family decided that after discharge, Nilanjana would be taken to her parent's apartment at Abhyudoy Housing Complex, which is close to the hospital. A nurse who takes care of her ailing father will look after her as well. The couple and their daughter live at a housing complex near the intersection of EM Bypass and Prince Anwar Shah Road. Late in the evening, Deep visited Anandapur police station and submitted a complaint alleging that the man who was driving the Honda City had tried to kill his wife through rash driving while taking a U-turn. The complaint has been tagged to the main case of alleged molestation. “Officers have said we might have to testify as witnesses in court after the accused is arrested. We will do it,” Deep said. A Ruby official said usually patients were discharged from hospital after tibia/fibula surgery when they were in a position to walk with help of a walker. “It takes about 5 to 7 days for a person to be able to walk with a walker. They are discharged when they can go to the washroom or perform other basic functions without any help from others,” said the official.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-316
08-09-2020||Calcutta||21 trafficked children from Bihar rescued near Maidan||A group of 21 minors from Bihar’s Samastipur, all alleged victims of trafficking, was rescued from a bus in the Maidan area early on Monday. Police said the children, aged between 12 and 14, were being taken to Howrah to work in bangle factories. Most of the children told the police that they were under the impression that they had been brought to Calcutta for a picnic, but some apparently knew that they would be made to work. Three men in their 20s who were accompanying the children have been arrested on charges of human trafficking and criminal conspiracy. The children have been handed over to the Child Welfare Committee (CWC). According to the official procedure, family members of each of the 21 children will be contacted and asked to appear before the committee. “The children will be allowed to go home only if the CWC is satisfied with the family members’ explanation on why they were allowed to leave home. Else, the kids will stay back in government homes,” an officer said. The Child Labour Amendment (Prohibition and Regulation) Act, 2016, does not allow children below the age of 14 to work except as a child artiste or in a family business not deemed hazardous. Parents are liable to be punished if they are found to have engaged their children below 14 in work in violation of the act. Several police officers Metro spoke to said the rescue of so many victims of human trafficking at one go in the city was rare. “These things happen in suburbs. We rarely get any human trafficking cases in proper Calcutta except while conducting raids at brothels or parlours. But so many children being trafficked together in a bus is unusual,” said a senior officer of Calcutta police. The bus was intercepted near Babughat around 5.30am. Calcutta and Howrah police had set up night pickets to intercept the bus following a tip-off from Bachpan Bachao Andolan, an NGO, which gave specific information about the vehicle and the 21 children who were being allegedly trafficked. “The children underwent an overnight journey from Samastipur, around 550km from Calcutta. The plan was that the bus would stop for a while near Babughat, from where the children were to be sent to Howrah in smaller groups in various vehicles to avert police glare,” an officer said. Bengal is among the states that account for maximum trafficking cases in the country. Hundreds of children and women are smuggled out of the state — at times with false hopes of livelihood and at other times with false promises of marriage. “It is easy to lure poor people with money and pretension of love. Many girls in villages in South 24-Parganas go missing after falling in love with strangers, whose real identity and intention are hidden from them till it is too late. By the time they realise, the girls have been sold,” said Bappaditya Mukherjee of Prantakatha, an NGO that deals with trafficking survivors. Mukherjee said widespread joblessness during the Covid pandemic had left children and their parents more vulnerable to migration and trafficking. In a large number of cases, it is found that children have been forced to leave home by their poor parents who are in desperate need of cash to run their families.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-316
08-09-2020||Calcutta||Airport clocks first 100 domestic flights, post-lockdown||The city airport clocked 100 flights on Sunday, a record since services resumed after the Covid-induced closure in March. “One hundred domestic flights took off from the city and an equal number landed on Sunday. In all, around 28,000 passengers travelled,” an official at the airport said. On May 28, the day services resumed after the lockdown, 11 flights had taken off and a similar number arrived. About 3,000 passengers had travelled through the airport that day. On Sunday, 16,350 passengers took flights out of Calcutta and 11,727 passengers arrived. As the number of passengers has started increasing, lounges, bars, food courts and retail stores at the terminal are opening up and their business has started picking up, officials said. Several airlines said many flights for Delhi, Chennai, Mumbai and Bangalore were overbooked and some were full. Officials of several airlines said about 85 passengers on Sunday were first-time fliers, many of whom were returning to the cities where they were working. There were businessmen, too, among the fliers. Many patients who were waiting to get treated at hospitals in Chennai, Hyderabad and Mumbai have started travelling following the Centre’s announcement of Unlock 4 and the Bengal government’s decision to allow resumption flights to Calcutta from Delhi, Mumbai, Chennai, Ahmedabad, Pune and Nagpur three days a week. Flights from the six cities to Calcutta were suspended on July 6, following a request from the state government, because of high Covid prevalence there. Even in August, the number of passengers taking flights out of Calcutta daily was below 10,000. Airport officials said that on Sunday, Vistara operated a Boeing B787 Dreamliner aircraft on the Calcutta-Delhi-Calcutta route. In all, 293 passengers flew out of the city and 272 flew in on the aircraft, which can seat around 300 passengers. AirAsia sources said the airline had been operating three flights every day since operations resumed. On Sunday, the airline operated six. IndiGo officials said the airline was operating around 35 flights daily last month. The number went up to 52 on Sunday and most had cent percent occupancy. The increase in the number of flights and passengers is helping food and beverage, and retail stores to come back to business. “Most retail and F&B stores have opened and they are having a decent number of passengers,” airport director Kaushik Bhattacharya said. After the state government gave permission, bars at the airport have started opening up, too. Ultra Bar, operated by Travel and Food Services, opened last week. TFS, which operates the lounges at the airport, said it's domestic section lounge has started serving passengers again and the number is picking up. “Over 130 days post-lockdown and airports reopening, we have seen a very positive growth in passenger traffic and spending sentiment. Transaction Averages are back to pre-Covid levels and I am confident as new flights get added, we will improve the penetration further and get back sales. From less than 30 passengers a day to 180 passengers, we have seen the lounge penetration grow over the last few weeks, thereby indicating the growing passenger confidence,” said Gaurav Dewan, COO & Business Head, TFS. Metro reported on Sunday that the state government was allowing air transport bubble flights from international destinations to Calcutta provided only those who test negative for Covid-19 within 96 hours before departure are allowed to board the aircraft.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-316
08-09-2020||Calcutta||Car of man who assaulted a woman, and ran over another traced||Police are still looking for the man accused of attacking and pushing a woman out of his Honda City and running over the leg of another woman who had rushed to help her at Anandapur on Saturday night. On Monday, the police said the suspect’s name was Abhishek Kumar Pandey, and not Amitabha Bose as the 31-year-old assault complainant had initially mentioned. Nilanjana Chatterjee, who had got off her car to help the victim and suffered fractures in her left tibia and fibula when the Honda City ran her over, underwent four hours of surgery on Monday to have rods and plates fixed in her leg. Pandey was not home when the police visited his east Jadavpur flat on Sunday night. Officers said his cellphone was switched off. The investigators met Pandey’s mother and sought details about her son and the keys to his Honda City, found parked in the garage. According to sources, Pandey’s mother said she did not have the car keys, nor did she know where he was. This newspaper could not contact the family for their version. Officers said the police had seized the Honda City on Monday, towing it away from the garage. The police have registered a case invoking the charges of attempt at culpable homicide not amounting to murder, outraging a woman’s modesty, rash and negligent driving, and causing grievous hurt by an act that endangers lives. Conviction can lead to a maximum of three years in jail. A man whom the police had detained on Sunday night for questioning has been released. Police sources said he was attached to the showroom from where the Honda City had been bought, and had been summoned to the police station to provide details about the vehicle’s owner. Pandey, who the police said works with a private insurance firm, had allegedly assaulted the woman in the car when she insisted on being dropped at her home as it was past midnight. She was allegedly pushed out of the car when Nilanjana’s husband, hearing the woman’s screams, pulled his car over in front of the Honda City, blocking its way. As Nilanjana got off the Maruti Alto to help the woman, the Honda City turned round and sped away, crushing her left leg. Asked why the police had failed to arrest Pandey till late Monday night despite securing his phone number and address on Saturday night, officers at Anandapur police station blamed the initial confusion over the suspect’s name.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-316
08-09-2020||Calcutta||Work-from-home has been a boon for pet lovers||If you have been working from home from the beginning of the pandemic and have pets at home, chances are you have been having mixed feelings about having them around. While it is surely a joy to have them for company, it can also be a hindrance sometimes if they get in the way of your work. But when t2 spoke to a few pet owners from cities, most of them felt that the plusses outweigh the minuses. They recount their funny and unique experience of being 24x7 with their dear ones and enjoying their work more now thanks to them… Milk and Cookie are now super excited as their guardian is with them 24x7 and they are going out to walk twice a day instead of twice a week for the first time in three years of their existence. For the twin Pomeranians, it’s like a weekend that’s never ending. “I have always been in advertising agencies and I have to work under immense pressure. So I always felt guilty because I couldn’t give much time to them. I used to spend hardly three hours with them. But now I’m with them always and can take them out anytime. So the pandemic becomes a blessing in disguise for us,” said Kobita Banerjee, a 32-year-old who works with an ad agency in Bangalore. Pikachu and Dobby are so happy nowadays that they are eating more than what they usually do. Pikachu is a three-year-old cat while his sister Dobby is one year old. “When my cats used to be alone, they would often fall asleep and skip their meals. But now since I’m with them all the time, they are always awake and having lots of food. They have gained weight in the last few months,” said Anna Sakhi John, a content writer based in Chennai. Pocket, Golla and Lakkhi have at last found freedom to play whenever and wherever they want. “My cats have a problem with vision. So when I’m not at home, they are not allowed to go out of their room and play. But now things have changed. I’m always with them and they can go out and play whenever they want,” said Chaitali Chakraborty, a 26-year-old IT professional from Calcutta. Suvarghya Dutta has turned his study into a mini office and he has found two new ‘colleagues’ — his pets Portia and Martini. Both are seven-year-old Indian dogs. Suvarghya has to keep the door of his study open and the two enter and leave the room whenever they want as they like to stay with him all the time! “Unless there is a very important meeting when I need a calm and quiet environment, Portia and Martini are always with me,” said the 47-year-old who works in an IT firm and is based out of Calcutta. Kobita has also set up her workspace in her living room and Milk and Cookie sit under Kobita’s desk as long as she works. The two now spend more time watching Kobita work than barking at people from the balcony. “My colleagues say jokingly that my dogs must have thought I have been fired,” said Kobita. Chaitali’s office colleagues are now used to seeing Golla running over her laptop and Pocket screaming “meow meow” in front of the laptop when a meeting is in progress. “It’s a welcome change for them as well,” said Chaitali. Golla is seven years old and his two sisters, Pocket and Lakkhi, are one-and-half years and one year old respectively. Pikachu and Dobby always walk around Anna when she works. “It gets difficult during meetings as they often come and jump on my laptop. However, my colleagues take it sportingly,” said the 29-year-old. Whatever Chaitali does throughout the day, be it having breakfast, watering the plants or taking a stroll on the terrace, Golla and gang are always there with her. Portia and Martini even sleep in Suvarghya’s study only to be with him always. Anna said: “When I’m at home, my cats don’t like to be in any other room even for a few minutes. It keeps bothering them if I don’t allow them in my room. They follow me wherever I go.” Milk and Cookie often take a ball and put it on Kobita’s lap when she works. Sometimes they put their heads on her lap. “It’s like ‘please play with us’. They are like children. So they seek attention and want to get pampered. I also love to spend time with them. These little breaks are very much necessary for me. Moreover, when I feel sad or I’m not in a great mood, they can easily sense it and they immediately come to me and try to lift my mood,” said Kobita. Suvarghya feels the presence of Portia and Martini is a huge stress buster for him. “I love to play with them. It helps me rejuvenate myself and concentrate on my work better. It’s actually reducing the stress of work.” For Chaitali, having her cats always by her side gives her immense energy. “Before lockdown, it was like a 10am-7pm job for me. But now since I’m at home, I have to work almost 10 hours a day. So seeing them and playing with them in between work gives me a lot of positive energy,” Chaitali quipped.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-316
