09-09-2020||Calcutta||Metro issues directives for passengers once it resumes service||The Metro Railway on Wednesday issued a set of do's and don'ts for passengers when they travel by its trains after the services are resumed, for maintaining Covid-19 safety norms. The passengers will have to wear masks covering face and nose and will have to sanitise their hands from sanitiser dispensers placed at each platform before boarding a train, a Metro Railway official said here. Metro Railway general manager Manoj Joshi, who inspected several stations of the city's rapid transit system on Tuesday, had earlier said that the final date for resumption of the services will be fixed shortly. The Metro Railway asked the passengers to use their smart cards only for using the services and they will have to download the Arogya Setu App on their smartphones. It said that tokens would not be used. Passengers will have to get their body temperature checked through thermal screening at the time of entry to a Metro station and will have to use specified gates for entry and exit, the official said. The Metro authorities said that passengers having symptoms of fever, cough or cold should not undertake a journey in its trains. It said that "elders and children should not undertake a Metro journey." The official said that spitting at station premises is strictly prohibited and is a punishable offence. In a bid to ease travel woes of several thousand National Eligibility cum Entrance Test (NEET) aspirants, the Metro will operate special trains on September 13, an official said on Wednesday.
This service will be exclusively for medical entrance examinees and their guardians, Metro Railway spokesperson Indrani Banerjee said.
Examinees will have to show NEET admit cards at the gates of Metro stations, she said. "No token will be issued to commuters and only printed card tickets will be issued to the bonafide students and their guardians," Banerjee said. A total of 66 trains - 33 each in up and down directions - will be run on September 13 from 11 am to 7 pm from the two terminal stations, Noapara and Kavi Subhash. These services will be available in every 15 minutes, she said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-313
09-09-2020||Calcutta||‘Assault’ car suspect arrested in Dum Dum||Abhishek Kumar Pandey, accused of assaulting and throwing out a woman from his Honda City and running over another woman while trying to flee on Saturday night, has been arrested in Dum Dum, police said on Tuesday night. Investigators said his mobile phone was switched off but the GPRS on his phone was working. His movement was tracked first to a guest house in the Anandapur area and then in the Sealdah home of a lawyer, after which he had switched off the GPRS. On Tuesday night, cops could again track him to a place near Dum Dum from where he was arrested. Pandey will be produced in court on Wednesday, the police said. He was apparently in a guest house in Mukundapur, around 4km from Anandapur police station, on Sunday night when the crime he has been accused of was being telecast on TV. The only difference: the suspect in the TV news was named as Amitabha Bose. The Telegraph on Tuesday spoke to the owner of the guest house where Pandey had apparently holed up for almost nine hours. The owner, Soumik Pandey, said he never suspected him as he was a regular at the guest house and that news on TV had said cops were looking for Amitabha Bose. “He checked in around 8pm on Sunday and went to a room upstairs. Around 5am, he checked out. My manager told me that one of his little fingers had a cut mark. I don’t remember which hand,” Soumik Pandey said. “His Honda City was parked outside. I recognised it was his car; but had no clue that cops were looking for him. I always thought it was some Amitabha Bose.” Close to midnight on Saturday, Abhishek Pandey had thrown a woman out of his Honda City near Abhyudoy Housing Society and left another woman with a fractured leg and gash in the head when he tried to flee, police said. “The car is registered in the name of Dewendra Kumar Pandey. It was registered in January 2017,” an officer of Anandapur police station said. “The car’s insurance is valid till December 2020.” On Saturday night, the two had driven around parts of the Bypass after having dinner at a restaurant in Patuli. From the Bypass, the two went to Ajoynagar, Garia, Kalikapur, and then to Anandapur, the police said. “Abhishek Pandey has been to my guest house in the past. I know him for more than a year. He would at times come and stay alone, too,” Soumik Pandey said. “If only I knew it was him the cops were looking for that night I would have immediately alerted them. Amitabha Bose naam tai confuse korey dilo (The name Amitabha Bose caused confusion).” He didn’t order for dinner that night. “Khub honto-donto hoye eshechhilo (He had reached in a huff). He just asked one of the service boys to switch on the TV in his room. He said he wanted news channels,” the owner of the guest house said. The police have collected details of Pandey’s address and identity proof from the guest house register. Officers have scanned CCTV footage to see him enter and leave the guest house. So why didn’t they get to know of his whereabouts earlier? “The name the victim had initially said in her complaint had left us bewildered,” an officer said. “We kept groping in the dark for some time till the real identity emerged.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-314
09-09-2020||Calcutta||Rations for parents, tutorial videos for kids||Anushree Sardar, 3, has been living in a makeshift room with her parents as their house in Gabberia village, South 24-Parganas, was demolished by Cyclone Amphan. Sree Chakraborty, 5, of Singheshwar village, Lovely Gayen of Ramlochanpur village and Priti Halder of Siddhiberia village share a similar story. Their parents, mostly daily labourers, are in search of work to make ends meet amidst the pandemic. But Anushree, Sree, Lovely or Priti did not have to stop their studies, which they loved most. Their school extended a helping hand to keep their dreams alive. Khelaghar, a community school run by an NGO, Young Men’s Welfare Society, has taken the initiative to help more than 1,700 families, including those of their students and others associated with the school, to survive during the pandemic and in the aftermath of Amphan. “We work in 46 villages of South 24-Parganas where thousands of families lost their homes and crops to Amphan and the flood caused by the breach of embankments. Most don’t have any work because of the pandemic,” Shazia Begum, the NGO’s rural secretary, said. “We reach out to around 7,000 individuals every day as part of the relief and rehabilitation project.” Khelaghar has branches in Raghunathpur, Joynagar and Bhagabatipur in South 24-Parganas. The three branches combined have 1,700 students. The school has organised relief camps in these areas and distributed basic food items such as rice, pulses, wholemeal flour, potatoes and oil, and non-food essentials such as masks and sanitisers. The school has supplied people with asbestos among others that is needed to rebuild their homes. “We have been getting dry rations regularly from the school. It’s crucial for our survival,” Sraboni Chakraborty, Sree’s mother, said. Sree is a KG II student of Khelaghar, Bhagabatipur. Khelaghar has cared for everyone associated with the school, be it cooks, gardeners or van-pullers. “I couldn’t earn anything because of the lockdown; my house, too, was damaged by Amphan. Khelaghar helped me with dry rations and gave me five asbestos sheets to rebuild my home,” Gopal Halder, a van-puller who used to ferry children from villages to Khelaghar before the pandemic, said. The NGO provides pre-primary and primary education to underprivileged children aged between three and nine. “Our aim is to make the learning experience more enjoyable and relevant. A clean and bright ambience, innovative teaching-learning methods and a caring team of teachers are the most important elements of our school,” Sangeeta Mukerji, trustee of Young Men’s Welfare Society, said. The NGO turns 50 this year. Khelaghar has ensured that the kids continue with their studies. Teachers have been sending tutorial videos to parents or those with smartphones so that the kids can go through the videos. If students do not have access to smartphones, teachers assign them homework in exercise books through their parents. “My daughter is getting restless as she is unable to go to Khelaghar. Thanks to the tutorial videos sent by the school, she can at least continue with her studies,” Mallika Gayen, Lovely’s mother, said. Lovely is a Class III student of the school. Anushree, Sree, Lovely, and Priti — all are desperate to return to Khelaghar, the place they love to be at. “I want to go to school. I like the ambience, the teachers and everything about our school,” Priti, a Class III student, said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-314
09-09-2020||Calcutta||Chief minister Mamata Banerjee, police chief support Nilanjana Chatterjee||Chief minister Mamata Banerjee on Tuesday said the government would support Nilanjana Chatterjee, who suffered a fracture after being hit by a car while helping a woman who screamed from inside the vehicle on Saturday night. “The woman who tried to save the other woman, got injured and has been admitted to Ruby (General Hospital) would get the support of the state government for all the medical expenses,” the chief minister announced at Nabanna. “We are there to help her. In such cases, police will take immediate action,” she added. Late on Tuesday night, police said prime suspect Abhishek Kumar Pandey had been arrested from Dum Dum. Officials said Calcutta police commissioner Anuj Sharma called up Nilanjana to congratulate her and pass on the chief minister’s decision. Nilanjana, who underwent surgery on Monday, was on her hospital bed when a police officer switched on the speaker of his phone and connected her to the commissioner. Sharma said Calcutta police were proud of her, expressing the hope that others too would stand up like her if and when the need arose. The commissioner also expressed his wish to meet the family. “Please join for a cup of tea once you are fit,” Sharma added. Sharma spoke to Nilanjana’s husband Deep Satpati who thanked the commissioner for the police’s prompt action in getting them an ambulance. On Tuesday, the team that handles calls to Dial 100 was rewarded for its prompt response.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-314
09-09-2020||Calcutta||Jamtara phone cheats arrested||Seven people were arrested in Jamtara, Jharkhand, in the past two days in connection with bank frauds on the phone. The arrests were made based on the complaints of two Calcuttans who had lost close to Rs10 lakh during the lockdown. They had shared their bank details with callers on the phone who posed as bank officials, police said. These men usually call up people in Calcutta posing as bank or income tax department officials and persuade such people into sharing their bank details with them, the police said. Once they get hold of the bank details, they transfer money from a victim’s account to multiple e-wallets. In June, Pratyusha Sinha Basu Mullick, who lives in the Sanjeeva Town Bungalow Complex in the Calcutta Leather Complex area, had reported how she had lost Rs 6 lakh to a caller who had fraudulently obtained her banking details and the one-time-password generated on her phone. The next month, Ruma Majumdar, a resident of East Bishnupur in North 24-Parganas had reported that Rs 4.63lakh had been withdrawn from her account in the Shyambazar branch of a nationalised bank. “Both complainants had reported the matter to us as soon as the crime had been committed. So, we were able to block and retain a part of the transferred money,” an officer of the detective department’s anti-bank fraud section said. As part of the modus operandi, the gang members used to call up people; at times posing as bank officials and telling them that their debit cards were about to be blocked or their e-commerce accounts were about to be invalidated for want of KYC. Some even told people that they had won prizes in reality shows and their bank details were needed to get them the prize money. The money was transferred from the victim’s bank account to multiple e-wallets to minimise the chance of the money trail getting identified, the police said. The Telegraph had on August 9 reported how Lalbazar had been flooded with more than 1,700 complaints of bank fraud, amounting to more than Rs3 crore. Of that at least 1,600 were connected to Jamtara. In several cases, cops found that the phone numbers that had been used to contact the complainants had SIM cards bought from Bengal. “That was the first time we found a direct link between the Jamtara gang and Bengal. SIM cards had been bought from Malda, Nadia and pockets of South 24-Parganas close to Calcutta,” an officer said. The number of complaints in June and July had shot up as a several people, especially the elderly, who were otherwise uncomfortable with online transactions had to go online to clear various dues during the lockdown, the police said. The city police have been running a helpline (8585063104) for people to report bank frauds on the phone.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-314
09-09-2020||Calcutta||Woman trafficked with job offer rescued||A 20-year-old woman from North 24-Parganas who was struggling to make ends meet because of the Covid-19 crisis was allegedly trafficked to Bihar in June. The woman left home after being allegedly abused by her husband, a daily wage-earner put out of work by the pandemic. A family member said she was allegedly trafficked by another woman who lured her with the offer of a job. She was taken to Bihar’s Siwan where she was allegedly forced to join a dance troupe before being rescued on July 15. The incident is a pointer to how the Covid-19 pandemic has landed many families in abject poverty, making women and minor girls more vulnerable to trafficking, said rights activists. The penury caused by the pandemic has made the lure of a job almost irresistible. Traffickers are on the prowl, looking for such vulnerable girls to force them into prostitution. “She was lured by a racket that used to hire women for the troupe. The victim said she was asked to perform dance and have sex with clients. On refusal, she would be physically tortured by the owner of the troupe,” said an official of International Justice Mission, which facilitated an operation that led to her rescue. “The survivor recorded her statement under Section 164 of the CrPC in front of a magistrate at a court in Bongaon, in North 24-Parganas, on August 28,” said an officer of Bongaon police station. Metro has reported how the pandemic has led to a spurt in child marriages and increased the trafficking threat. Many parents who have lost their livelihoods are ready to marry off their daughters to any groom who does not demand a dowry. The grooms are often linked to trafficking rackets. A group of 21 minors from Bihar’s Samastipur, all alleged victims of trafficking, was rescued from a bus in Calcutta early on Monday. Police said the children were being taken to Howrah to work in bangle factories. The Bongaon woman was not a minor but was in deep poverty. “She found it difficult to make ends meet after her husband lost his job. He used to drink every day and beat her,” the survivor’s elder sister told this newspaper over the phone. “A woman my sister knew offered her a job. On the day of the journey, she was accompanied by that woman and two men. They gave my sister a spiked drink and took her to Bihar in a car as trains were not running,” the survivor’s sister said. She said she could not remember which day her sister went missing but it “was early in June”. The survivor could call her family from Siwan from the phone of another member of the troupe. Her father lodged a missing complaint on July 4. “The number that the survivor called from helped us trace the location of the group,” said an official of Mission Mukti Foundation. Volunteers of the organisation had accompanied Bihar police during the rescue. “The challenge will be to curb traffickers when train services resume,” said an activist of Partners in Anti-Trafficking, an alliance of organisations.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-314
09-09-2020||Calcutta||Rush & potholes trigger snarls||Vehicles crawled on Belghoria Expressway, Jessore Road and the airport’s slip road on Tuesday, a day after the total lockdown, because of a heavy rush and innumerable potholes on the roads. Vehicles, including two-wheelers, headed to the city from Barasat, Dakshineswar, and Madhyamgram via Jessore Road or going to these places were caught in the jam that added at least 90 minutes to their travel time. Near the airport, a combination of craters, construction materials lying by the roadside and crash barriers triggered traffic snarls during the morning and evening rush hour. Motorists and two-wheeler riders headed towards Belghoria Expressway as well as to the city from the expressway face snarls almost every day because of potholes on Jessore Road. Trucks and other heavy vehicles add to the problem. Sandipan Chakraborty, a resident of Barasat who was headed to the city, said it took him more than an hour from the airport’s Gate No. 2.5 to reach the flyover that connects Ultadanga to the Bypass. The distance from the airport to the flyover is around 9.7km and it takes around 25 minutes on other days to cover the stretch, he said. Cops had requested the agencies maintaining VIP Road and Jessore Road to repair them, anofficer of the Bidhannagar commissionerate’s airport traffic guard said. “We requested them to do patchwork repairs… they have done that on some stretches. There was a huge rush of vehicles today (Tuesday) and coupled with the potholes there were snarls despite our best efforts,” the officer said. Jessore Road is in bad shape though it has been widened. The police deployment at the airport’s Gate No. 2.5 and No. 1 is sufficient but there is little effort to regulate traffic, according to regular commuters. “They just stand there and wave at vehicles. Is that traffic management?” Triparna Sinha, who lives in a complex along Jessore Road, asked. The T-junction at Gate No. 2.5 chokes as soon as there is a heavy rush of vehicles, Sinha said. Many people now enter the airport complex through the flyover instead of going through the chaos on the slip road. They take the road in front of Airport police station to reach Gate No. 2.5 from the opposite end and add to the congestion there. The police and civic volunteers, at least six on each shift, stand and watch, another regular commuter said. The lack of police intervention at the junction where traffic lands on Jessore Road from Belghoria Expressway via the flyover is another reason behind the snarls. The public works department maintains VIP Road and Jessore Road near the airport. A PWD engineer said the agency had done patchwork repairs multiple times on these roads. “We even did patchwork repairs on Jessore Road on Monday as there were no vehicles because of the total lockdown. But a combination of rain and heavy vehicles on these roads damage the repairs. We will again repair the stretches where potholes have reappeared,” the engineer said. Both roads need to be resurfaced and patchwork repairs are a temporary fix that will not last long, the engineer said. “We are planning thorough repairs on VIP Road and Jessore Road before the puja.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-314
09-09-2020||Calcutta||Form fill-in starts for JU final exams||The graduating students of arts and science at Jadavpur University have started filling in forms online to write their end-semester exams, which are likely to be held from October 1 to 10. The university on Tuesday issued a notification announcing the start of the form fill-in exercise and said the results published in July, following the state higher education department’s June 27 directive, “stand cancelled” in accordance with a Supreme Court order. The July results were prepared based on internal assessment and performance in previous semesters. The Supreme Court had on August 28 upheld the UGC’s July 6 directive that said graduating students would have to write their exams and could not be assessed on the basis of their performance in previous semesters. “Fresh examinations for the said semesters will be held as per university examination rules and resolutions adopted in the matter by the examination committee,” the JU notice reads. The graduating students at both undergraduate and postgraduate levels have till Friday to fill-in and submit examination forms. “The exams are likely to be held from October 1 to 10. We will announce the dates after the state government gets the UGC’s approval for conducting the tests after September 30,” said a JU official. The UGC had in its July 6 order set September 30 as the deadline for completing the final year/terminal exams. The Supreme Court says that if any state or Union Territory, in exercise of the jurisdiction of the Disaster Management Act, 2005, decides that it is not possible to conduct the exams by September 30, it can apply to the UGC for an extension of the deadline. “Let the Bengal government, which has announced that exams in state-aided universities would be held from October 1 to 18, first get the approval. After that we will announce the dates,” the JU official said. Questions papers will be sent to students through digital mode such as group email or WhatsApp half an hour before each day’s test starts. Scanned copies of the answer scripts have to be sent through email or WhatsApp. How will students without smartphones or data packs or those with poor Net connections at home will write the exams? “The university will deliver question papers to and collect answer scripts from the homes of the students who lack a smart device or Internet connectivity. No one will be left out for want of a device or connectivity,’’ said vice-chancellor Suranjan Das.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-314
09-09-2020||Calcutta||HC urges parents to stop fee protest||The high court on Tuesday expressed hope that parents would “desist” from agitations in front of school gates while it hears their plea for a fee waiver during the Covid pandemic and said the institutions could seek police action if such demonstrations broke out. “It is hoped that the parents desist from carrying out any agitation at the school gates, particularly since the matter is being considered by the court. Any report of further agitation at the school gates may be reported by the relevant schools for appropriate police action,” the bench of Justice Sanjib Banerjee and Justice Mousumi Bhattacharya said. The bench, while hearing a PIL, proposed that the 145 schools involved in the case set up committees comprising teacher and guardian representatives to identify the parents who were genuinely unable to pay the fees because of financial trouble during the pandemic. “It will be open to all schools to consider such instances on a case-to-case basis without there being any generic direction in such regard. However, as far as the extent of (fee) reduction allowable, there have to be voluntary suggestions made by the individual committees of each school which are proposed to be set up by the order that may be passed when the matter is taken up next,” the order said. “It is heartening to note that almost without exception schools which have participated in today’s hearing have said that they have entertained, on a case-to-case basis, appeals by the parents of the students who have been financially hit.” The bench said the six CNI schools which had moved the Supreme Court against the high court order seeking income and expenditure details of the schools would have to apply to the high court by September 14 for recall/modification of its order. The apex court had asked the schools to move the high court for the recall/modification of the order. The six schools are seeking recall/modification because minority schools enjoy financial autonomy. Article 30 of the Constitution guarantees the freedom to minority schools, a CNI official said. Social activist Vineet Ruia had moved a PIL in the high court alleging that many private schools were not allowing students to attend online classes or take online exams for failing to pay fees. The petition had also alleged that the school authorities had been demanding charges on various heads though they had not provided those services during the pandemic. Agitations by parents have been common during the pandemic. They have been demanding reduction of tuition fees and waiver of fees under heads like sports, computer and library — the facilities students had not been availing of as the schools are shut. The schools, which take no aid from the government, have said they would find it difficult to pay wages and maintain infrastructure if parents do not pay. The high court on Tuesday said the two-member committee it had constituted to go into the schools’ income and expenditure “indicates several fallacies in the accounts submitted by the schools”. In a preliminary report, the panel has said collecting fees on 30 heads such as “art and craft expenses”, “textbook charges”, “band charges” and “entertainment expenses” during this period was “unjustified”. The court said the heads referred to in the report should be addressed and individual schools should justify the amount they have claimed to have spent under various heads.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-314
09-09-2020||Calcutta||Rain respite from heat and humidity||A spell of heavy rain on Tuesday afternoon brought temporary relief from the heat and humidity that Calcuttans had been subjected to for the past few days. A shell of thunderclouds that descended from the western districts of Bengal led to the rain that started around 4pm. The Met office recorded around 60mm of rain in Alipore. Patuli was the wettest area in the city, recording more than 70mm of rain, according to data collected from the water pumping stations of the Calcutta Municipal Corporation. Places in south Calcutta got more rain than the north. Joka received around 50mm and New Market 35mm. Traffic crawled on several roads because of the rain. Diamond Harbour Road and Rashbehari Avenue had heavy traffic around 8pm, much after the rain had stopped. The mercury hovered around 34 degrees Celsius for several days at a stretch. The minimum relative humidity, a measure of the moisture content in the air during the driest part of the day, was consistently on the higher side for the past few days. The rain was accompanied by a series of lightning on Tuesday. “The pent-up heat and humidity led to the formation of the thunderclouds,” a Met official said. The Met office has forecast thunderstorms in the coming days as well.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-314
09-09-2020||Calcutta||UK board to conduct exams in November||Cambridge Assessment International Education (CAIE), a UK-based school board, has decided to go ahead with its pen-and paper November 2020 exams but given the schools the option to withdraw candidates as close as a day before the exams start, unlike other years. The exams of the November 2020 series will be held in October and November. The schools can withdraw candidates depending on the Covid-19 situation and if they do not have the necessary permission from the government authorities to let their students take the test. The board conducts the exams thrice a year — in June, October-November and March. Some international schools in the city allow their students to write the exams in any of the three series. This year the exams could not be held in June because of the pandemic. Some international schools in the city are proceeding with the arrangements to conduct the exams but said the final call would be taken on the basis of what the government would say. “We are running exams for the November 2020 series where schools believe it is safe and where they have the necessary permissions from the government authorities. We believe exams remain the fairest and most reliable way to assess student achievement and our schools are telling us they want to hold exams if they can,” the CAIE has said. The schools have been allowed to withdraw their students by September 30. In some schools, the exams begin on October 1. “What is unique about this session is that the board is allowing withdrawal of candidates so close to the exam. In our institution it is as close as four days. The special provision will  address the concerns of students and guardians in this difficult time,” said Sarojesh Mukerjee, the director of The Cambridge School in south Calcutta. “We are proceeding towards the board exams in October-November... but nothing will come above the safety of our students,” said Anuradha Das, the director of Garden High International School. “The number of students for the exam in October-November is limited and not all of them appear now. In fact all the students do not have papers on the same day so it will be easy for us to maintain social distancing if the government gives us the go ahead to conduct exams,” said Saswati Datta, the principal of Vidyanjali International School. Calcutta International School, The Heritage School, Bridge International School and Vidyanjali International School are some of the other schools that offer the curriculum.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-314
09-09-2020||Calcutta||IIM to bring batch back post Net glitch||IIM Calcutta will call students of the executive MBA course to the campus so they can use the Internet network there and take part in online classes without disruption, said an official of the institute. The residential programme was launched in an online mode in April amid the pandemic, but many of the students, who paid Rs 27 lakh for the one-year course, often found it difficult to connect from home because of poor connectivity and were dissatisfied with what the institute had to offer, said sources. The 62 students of the class will be brought to the Joka B-school in batches so they can attend the classes taking advantage of the seamless network on the campus, the official told The Telegraph. “IIM Calcutta’s one-year full-time MBAEx students are all set for the maiden on-campus experience starting September…. The students will arrive on the campus in small batches to undertake quarantine in the campus hostel, while still attending classes online,” a statement issued by the institute said. Six working professionals who had enrolled for the programme and paid Rs 2 lakh each as commitment fee took a refund in late July saying they did not wish to continue in the current atmosphere of “financial uncertainty”. They also alleged that the programme had been converted into the online mode without consulting the students. Director Seth said in a statement mailed to The Telegraph: “What makes such programmes unique is the experiential learning, networking and bond built amongst batchmates. It’s so unfortunate that this year’s batch of 62 students has already been deprived of this opportunity for the first four months of their programme due to the Covid pandemic that required them to take online classes from home, many under very difficult circumstances, including serious connectivity issues. We are now at least able to offer them an option to be at campus to attend classes online as a respite.” A teacher of the institute said students of the two year-MBA programme might renew their demand to be brought back to the campus so they could use the institute’s network facility and attend classes without any glitch. “If that happens it could mean an assembly on the campus, which would not be advisable amid the pandemic,’’ he added. The statement issued by the IIM says the students were “facing serious difficulties with extension of rent leases and other constraints” while attending online classes over the past four months. When asked what they meant by difficulties in rent leases, an official said: “Many students were forced to take rooms on rent in locations that ensured better connectivity following poor network in home. This was posing serious difficulty as the course is already steeply charged.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-315
