10-09-2020||Calcutta||Rent relief for Calcutta airport outlets||The city airport has decided to waive the rent on 100-odd outlets on its premises for April and May, when flights were stalled because of the Covid-19 pandemic. Besides, the Airports Authority of India recently sent a communication to Calcutta airport, saying the rent would be reduced for June, July and August proportionate to the reduced passenger footfall compared with the previous year. Airport officials said they had informed the retail, food and beverage and other agencies about the “concessionaire support scheme”. “Rebate in licence fees will be given to the extent of reduction in passenger footfall from the corresponding period of previous year,” said an airport official. He said no bills would be raised for April and May, when there were no commercial flights. The official said the passenger footfall was almost 70 per cent less in August than what it used to be before the Covid pandemic.The situation improved in September, on the days flights are operating between Calcutta and six cities — Delhi, Mumbai, Chennai, Ahmedabad, Pune and Nagpur. The flights between Calcutta and the six cities had been suspended on July 6 because of a surge in Covid cases there. The services resumed on September 1 and currently flights on the six routes are operating three days a week. There are 54 food and beverage outlets at Calcutta airport’s integrated terminal, of which 33 are operating. Of the 31 retail stores, 21 have reopened after domestic flights resumed in end-May. Airport officials said the retail and F&B stores in the international section were still closed because flights were yet to resume. Metro had in July reported that several agencies, including the stores and the one running parking facilities at the airport, had sought rebates on rents. The city airport used to earn Rs 14 crore a month as licence fee. Some of the agencies are opposed to calculating the rebate as a proportion of the reduction in passenger footfall. “Now there are more passengers who are not coming on private vehicles. They take buses. So even if the passenger count has gone up compared with June, we are not getting enough business,” said said Babulal Yadav, general manager of Mahesh Sunny Enterprises, which runs the parking facility. But airport officials said passenger footfall could be the only basis of calculation. The Oberoi Group’s flight catering unit, although it does not pay a licence fee to the airport, is looking at resuming business. The unit had written to the Centre earlier, requesting the government to allow serving meals on board. Recently, the civil aviation ministry has given the go-ahead. “We are preparing to serve meals on board from September 13. We are expecting a few orders from airlines,” said an official of the unit.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-312
10-09-2020||Calcutta||Balcony collapse kills young man in Burrabazar||A balcony attached to the top floor of a four-storey building collapsed on a crowded Burrabazar Road, killing a youth and injuring an elderly man on Tuesday evening. Vishal Mandal, 18, was standing in front of the building at 15 Noor Mahal Lohia Lane when the balcony collapsed around 7.30pm on Tuesday. Police said the balcony was close to 30ft in length. “The young man who was standing right under the balcony got trapped under the debris. He was rescued and taken to SSKM Hospital with head injuries. He died of injuries later at night,” an officer of Burrabazar police station said. Mandal used to live in the same neighbourhood. Mahabir Sharma, 65, who lives in the same locality, was a few feet from the spot where the balcony crashed. A tile ricocheted and hit Sharma in the leg. He had to be admitted to SSKM Hospital. The building comprises offices and commercial establishments. There was no one in the office on the top floor when the balcony collapsed, the police said. “Otherwise more people could have been injured,” an officer said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-312
10-09-2020||Calcutta||Scores of injured birds at Salt Lake rescue centre||Kite strings are proving to be risky not only for two-wheeler riders but also for birds who are getting injured after getting entangled in them. Once they get entangled, they struggle to free themselves and in the process injure their wings, legs or talons. Some even die. Scores of birds, including black kites, owls, pigeons and kingfishers, were injured by kite strings in the past couple of days. Many Calcuttans as well as forest department officials have rescued innumerable injured birds, an official at the forest department’s Wildlife Rescue Centre in Salt Lake said. Close to 50 birds have been rescued and the rescue centre has released many after they recovered from their injuries, the official said. The centre has been receiving calls from across the city. People call up to say they spotted injured birds entangled in kite strings or struggling on the ground. Many have taken to flying kites in the city during the lockdown. Several two-wheeler riders on flyovers have been critically injured by kite strings. Some have died of injuries. Manja (a mixture of glass and glue) helps kites soar but also adds to the string’s sharpness. Such strings do not snap and leave birds entangled in them severely injured. The nylon ones are known as Chinese manja — they are almost unbreakable and are extremely sharp. “We often hear of such injuries to birds, especially black kites. Birds cannot see the string while flying and they get entangled in them,” Shubhankar Patra, a veteran birdwatcher, said. Black kites, common in the city, are large, slow-flying birds. Being scavengers, they keep hovering in the sky in search of food. Owls, too, cannot spot strings until it is too late. A few days ago, an injured Indian Kite was spotted dangling from the branch of a tree at the Park Street and Camac Street crossing. Passers-by alerted cops. Traffic sergeants Diptimoy Ghosh and Awasim Bari of the South traffic guard climbed on top of a boundary wall adjacent to the tree and rescued the bird. They then alerted the forest department, which sent a rescue team to the area. The bird was taken to the rescue centre in Salt Lake where it was treated. An official at the centre said more than 26 birds with injuries from kite strings had been rescued in the past week. “Most have injuries on their wings or legs… they struggle to free themselves once they get entangled in kite strings. We try our best but many cannot fly after getting slashed or entangled in these strings,” the official said. Forest officials and various NGOs are worried about a spike in the number of injured birds during Vishwakarma Puja, which is round the corner, when sparring with kites is common in the city. Calcutta High Court had in July directed cops to strictly enforce the ban on Chinese manja and nylon and synthetic strings used to fly kites.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-312
10-09-2020||Calcutta||14 Tokay geckos rescued on Bangladesh border||Fourteen Tokay geckos that were being smuggled into India from Bangladesh on Wednesday were rescued near the Parghumti border outpost in North 24-Parganas, a BSF officer said. A BSF team saw a man wading through the Kalindi river from Bangladesh with a polythene bag, the officer said. When the BSF patrol party asked him to stop, he dropped the bag and fled. The team found the 14 geckos in the bag. The geckos have been handed over to the forest department’s Wildlife Rescue Centre. The Tokay gecko is a species of Asian lizard characterised by orange spots on the skin and a shrill croak. The reptile is found in rainforests, particularly in the Northeast, apart from Nepal, Bangladesh, Indonesia, the Philippines and New Guinea. It is protected under Schedule IV of the Wildlife Protection Act (WPA), 1972.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-312
10-09-2020||Calcutta||Calcutta bus, minibus forum to seek PM’s help||A forum of private bus and minibus operators in Calcutta has decided to write to Prime Minister Narendra Modi demanding the Centre ensures diesel price drops and offer them financial relief. The price of diesel was Rs 76.66 a litre in Calcutta on Wednesday. In June it was Rs 65.62 a litre. The impact has been felt across the board with prices of vegetables and other items soaring. Bus and minibus operators said they had been hit the worst. Fuel comprises almost 60 per cent of the expenditure and the escalating diesel price has left them in the lurch, many said. The state government has refused to revise the existing fares and many have defaulted on their vehicle EMI payments. “There has been a drop in ticket sales by almost 60 per cent. So what will a bus owner earn to pay his EMIs? State can run buses on subsidy. But we can’t,” Tapan Bandyopadhayay of the Joint Council of Bus Syndicates said. “The Centre must intervene. We want a waiver on insurance premium and a temporary waiver of EMIs so that those with vehicle loans are not blacklisted.” At a meeting of bus and minibus owners and operators on Wednesday, representatives of various unions decided that apart from writing to Modi, they would make similar appeals to Union finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman and transport minister Nitin Gadkari. “Why won’t we be considered a part of the small or micro industry? Why can’t the Centre give us some sops?” Swapan Ghosh, the joint secretary of the Minibus Operators Coordination Committee, asked.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-312
10-09-2020||Calcutta||Calcutta HC relief for three NEET candidates||A Covid survivor who has to travel all the way to Kharagpur to write his National Eligibility cum Entrance Test (NEET) had moved the high court asking what if the authorities did not allow him to write the paper because of his medical history. The court on Wednesday directed the state to ask the examination-conducting agency to make arrangements so that Saumik Jana could write the test alone in a room. Jana is from a village in Murshidabad district. Moving a petition before Justice Tapabrata Chakraborty, Jana said he was not opposed to going to Kharagpur for the test, but wondered what he would do if the authorities there did not allow him to take the exam because he had recently recovered from Covid-19. All medical colleges in India admit students to their undergraduate courses through NEET. Jana was sent to a quarantine centre for 14 days after he was diagnosed with the disease on August 18. The counsel appearing for him said: “My client was declared Covid-free on September 2. According to health norms, he should be in home quarantine for 14 more days. The NEET authorities at the examination centre could say my client would not be allowed to sit the exam.” The order to the state came following the submission. The high court is swamped with appeals from NEET candidates, especially because the entrance test is preceded by two days of complete lockdown in the state. The court will hear many of the appeals on Thursday. In another case before the same bench on Wednesday, Anindita Jana from East Midnapore said her test centre was in West Midnapore, nearly 150km from her home. Anindita’s counsel wondered how his client would reach the centre as the state would be under lockdown on September 11 and 12 and train services were yet to resume. Justice Chakraborty directed the state government to arrange for a vehicle for Anindita so she could reach the venue. Jayatri Pal, from Raiganj in South Dinajpur, expressed the same worry because her test venue was about 155km from her home. Jayatri had moved the plea before Justice Arindam Sinha. The judge asked the state to provide accommodation for Jayatri in Siliguri from Thursday to Monday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-312
10-09-2020||Calcutta||Suspect in Sinthi burglaries arrested||A youth arrested in connection with a cellphone theft has been found to have been involved in four burglaries reported from the Sinthi area, in north Calcutta, over the last four months, police said. Each of the houses burgled in Sinthi has CCTV cameras on the road in front but police failed to identify any suspect based on the footage. The police tracked down Tapas Das, 25, while pursuing the trail of a stolen cellphone that was sold to a woman at Shyampur in Howrah. Armed with sketchy details about the man who sold the phone to the woman, the police activated their sources and found that the suspect was a frequent visitor to a red-light zone in the Girish Park area of north Calcutta. Das was arrested from the area on Tuesday night. “We have recovered two laptops, cash and gold ornaments from him,” said an officer of the detective department. Some of the items were stolen from Sinthi. The investigators reached the woman who bought the stolen phone by tracking its IMEI number. She apparently told the cops that she had bought the phone from a man. “We got some clues about the man’s looks from the woman. The descriptions matched that of Tapas Dey, whose name figures in the crime records section at Lalbazar. Based on source information, we learned that Dey was in a habit of going to a red-light area in the city. We launched surveillance but learned that he had started visiting another red-light pocket, in the Girish Park area,” the officer said. “We have come to know that Das was involved in four burglaries in the Sinthi area over the past four months. He has also admitted to having committed burglaries in Chitpore, Tallah, Lake Town and Baguiati,” the officer said. Senior officers at Calcutta police said they would contact Lake Town and Baguiati police stations, which are under the Bidhannagar commissionerate, to gather details about the crimes.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-312
10-09-2020||Calcutta||Jadavpur University set to help students with Internet problems||Jadavpur University will give students facing Net connectivity problems smartphones and high-speed data packs ahead of the end-semester exams, scheduled for October, a university official said. The move will ensure no student is left out of the exam process for want of Net connectivity, the official said. In the third of week August, Suranjan Das, the university vice-chancellor, had requested its teachers and other employees to donate a day’s salary to help some students overcome the digital divide and attend online classes. He had requested the alumni, guardians and others to contribute so that funds could be raised to help in the process. The university has received more than Rs 12 lakh till September 8 and the money will be used to buy smartphones and high-speed data packs, a university official said. Arts and science students have started filling online forms from Tuesday for the exams that are likely to be held from October 1 to 10. The exams will be held because the results published in July following the state higher education department’s June 27 directive “stand cancelled” in view of an August 28 Supreme Court order. “We will buy students smartphones and high-speed data packs with the contribution received so far. Students will be able to write the exams and attend classes as well with this support,” Pradip Ghosh, a pro vice-chancellor, said. Ghosh is part of the 10-member committee formed on September 4 to coordinate the utilisation of the corpus “created to help students with digital devices/ connectivity”. Another member of the committee said it was crucial that the support reached students before the start of the exams as this could help them take the tests without any worries of getting question papers and sending answer scripts on time. As these students don’t have the facilities, the university has thought of engaging courier services to deliver question papers to their homes and collect answer scripts as well. “But what if the courier guy fails to deliver the papers on time? If students are provided with phone and high-speed data packs, they can receive the questions and mail back the answer scripts or send them WhatsApp like any other student,” Partha Pratim Roy, the general secretary of Jadavpur University Teachers’ Association, said. Roy is part of the committee. The university’s faculty council had on Sunday decided that those with access to the Net would receive questions by email and WhatsApp and have two hours to write the answers. Answers will have to be sent back the same way. If needed, a student can get the answer script scanned or take photographs of the answer script and mail them or send them on WhatsApp. That’s why students will get an hour to send the answers, an official said. Gour Krishna Pattanayak, the university’s finance official, said the university would meet on Thursday to take stock of the number of students who would need the help. “The departments have submitted lists. We have to go through them once so that genuine people get the help. We will then start talking to companies to get phone and high-speed data packs,”he said. Pattanayak is part of the committee.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-313
10-09-2020||Calcutta||Counselling campaign on mental health||Singer Usha Uthup and actress Parno Mittra will be among hundreds who will wear yellow on Thursday. The reason? They don’t want another life lost to suicide. An NGO that provides telephone counselling to mentally distressed individuals has launched a campaign, Go Yellow Kolkata 2020, to spread awareness about mental health issues and to remove the stigma attached to suicide and depression. September 10 is World Suicide Prevention Day.  Lifeline Foundation Kolkata is urging people to wear yellow on Thursday in support of the movement through various online platforms. “Wear yellow and show your support to the cause,” Usha said on Wednesday. Shubhika Singh, a consultant psychologist and one of the trustees of Lifeline Foundation, said: “As a society, we have been conditioned to view emotions and mental health as a weakness. We need to collectively work to change it and sensitise each other towards normalising the conversation around mental well-being. No one should suffer in silence because of the fear of judgements and stigma.” Parno spoke of her own “depression and anxiety for many years”. “I am on medication for it. I want people to know it’s totally normal to have mental health issues. One must be open to treatment and we as a society need to change our attitude,” Mittra said. Mittra and Uthup will join an online session on Thursday in support of the movement. “We are all facing the emotional impact of Covid-19. If we as a society come together and start talking about mental health issues without any stigma, it becomes acceptable to the point of consideration and discussion,” said Suksham Singh of Lifeline Foundation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-313
10-09-2020||Calcutta||Metro on Sunday for NEET candidates||Metro Railway will run a limited number of trains on Sunday for NEET aspirants, the first passenger service in 173 days since the utility had grounded its fleet on March 23 because of the Covid pandemic. “A total of 66 trains will be run (33 each from Noapara and New Garia) from 11am to 7pm at an interval of 15 minutes,” a Metro official said. “Only NEET candidates and their guardians can avail themselves of the service. They will have to show their admit cards at the gates of stations to get printed tickets. No tokens will be issued,” the official added. Over 30,000 candidates are expected to take the test at 66 centres in Calcutta. The test will be conducted from 2pm to 5pm. The state unit of the Indian Medical Association will provide NEET candidates and their family members one or two nights' accommodation at its guest houses in Calcutta. Santanu Sen, the state secretary of the association, tweeted that the accommodation would be provided at a “special discounted rate” on a "first come first served” basis on the “previous night or the day of the examination”. Interested persons should send a message to 8240716350 before 6pm on Friday, the tweet said. The Metro service has remained suspended since March 23. There has been no formal announcement of the date of resumption of commercial service in Calcutta. But crowd control preparations with the help of technology are under way. The railway authorities will keep an eye on how Metro trains run before taking a call on resuming suburban trains, said a senior official. “We will see how Metro trains run by maintaining social distancing and crowd control protocols. They are taking the help of technology. But there are doubts on the efficacy of that technology in the open line. We will examine how the technology progresses on the ground,” Suneet Sharma, the general manager of Eastern Railway, said during a press conference on Wednesday. “Metro Railway carried 6.5 lakh passengers every day. The suburban sections of the Eastern Railway carried 30 lakh passengers every day. Metro stations have access-control facilities. Access control at the porous suburban stations is going to be very difficult. But we are in consultation with the state government. We hope something positive comes out of it,” said Sharma. “We have sent the state government crucial correspondence. Now we have to wait and see what happens once Metro trains resume,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-313
10-09-2020||Calcutta||Hawker count rises in Salt Lake||Pavements and portions of roads in Salt Lake are being fast encroached upon by hawkers selling anything from fruits to poultry. The numbers have gone up in the past couple of months as many who lost their jobs during the Covid pandemic have taken to selling fruits, vegetables and fast food to sustain themselves and their families. Most of these men and women are parking their vans on roads and some are setting up stalls on pavements. Many Salt Lake residents Metro spoke to said there had been a sharp increase in the number of pavement-grabbing stalls in all sectors of the township. Metro went around Salt Lake on Wednesday and the hawkers presiding over pavement-grabbing stalls in Sectors I, II and III are hard to miss. They were everywhere in Karunamoyee, opposite the Geological Survey of India building, in front of the Punjab National Bank rotary, lanes in several blocks such as DL and EE, and the newly renovated stretch of pavement along the Kestopur canal near AL block. Hawkers have also sprung up in front of the CGO Complex. Paritosh Duley, a resident of Kestopur who sells fruits from a pushcart and sets up his stall in AL block, said he earned a living by repairing air-conditioners before Covid struck. “I had to switch professions because there are very little work opportunities now. Most people are scared to let outsiders in. I now sell fruits to support my family,” Duley said. A glance at a 6ft wide pavement within the Karunamoyee bus stand shows the magnitude of fresh encroachments. More than a dozen illegal hawkers have set up shop there. Fruit seller Swapan Pushti, 38, said he and other hawkers had moved inside the bus stand from where the Calcutta-Dhaka service operates because it is “safer” for them to do business there. The Bidhannagar Municipal Corporation had evicted 3,000-odd hawkers and demolished stalls on pavements before the U-17 football World Cup in October 2017. Evictions were also carried out before Calcutta Book Fair in subsequent years. A civic official said no eviction drive had been conducted over the past six months. Mayor Krishna Chakraborty said they were not evicting the hawkers as most of them had lost their jobs because of the pandemic. “We are taking a softer stand because we don’t want to destroy their only means of earning something,” she said. Samaresh Bandyopadhyay, a resident of Salt Lake’s Sector II, however, said that not just pavements, even roads will be taken over if the authorities did not act against encroachments immediately. “The numbers are going up and it can turn into a situation where shops will spring up everywhere. We residents have a right to walk on pavements,” said Bandyopadhyay.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-313
10-09-2020||Calcutta||Surgeries deferred as patients test Covid positive in Calcutta||Planned surgeries are getting cancelled because patients are testing positive for Covid-19 during routine investigations, doctors and officials at a number of hospitals said. Last Saturday at Peerless Hospital, three laparoscopic cholecystectomies (procedures to remove gallbladder and gallstones) were postponed because all three patients tested positive for Covid-19 in routine screening. At the RN Tagore International Institute of Cardiac Sciences, three out of six scheduled renal transplants last week had to be deferred because the patients had tested positive for Covid-19. None of them had symptoms, said an official of the hospital. Patients in need of surgeries and procedures for a number of ailments, including cancer and renal failure, were staying away from hospitals during the lockdown and immediately after it was lifted for fear of catching the coronavirus. Such people are now slowly going back to hospitals. But many of them are testing positive for Covid-19 in routine screening and are having their procedures deferred. Doctors said that except for emergency cases, they are waiting for patients to test negative for Covid before scheduling their procedures. “This is being done for patients’ safety because the coronavirus damages lungs and surgeries could be life-threatening in such situations,” said a doctor. “In the past week, we had about 10 surgeries deferred, including renal transplant, cancer, knee replacement and coronary bypass. None of the patients who tested positive for Covid had any symptoms. Surgeries can be done after the patients turn negative,” said Sudipta Mitra, the chief executive of Peerless Hospital. A man in his 60s had come to Calcutta in March for renal transplant at Peerless Hospital. The donor, his nephew, had come along with him. “The necessary clearances from the health department could not be processed because of the lockdown. Recently, the clearances came but the donor and the recipient both tested positive for Covid-19. Now, both of them are in a guesthouse, waiting to test negative,” Mitra said. At AMRI Hospitals, an elderly man had undergone neurosurgery in April. Surgeons had kept a piece of the skull bone in the abdomen and planned to replant it in the skull later. “The person had to undergo surgery to get the bone replanted. But he tested positive for Covid-19,” said Prakhar Gyanseh, a consultant in neuroanaesthesia and neurocritical care at AMRI, Dhakuria. The patient underwent the surgery last week after being cured of the coronavirus infection. A woman who had suffered a cerebral haemorrhage a few days back and was admitted to the hospital tested positive for Covid and was treated at the Covid ICU. On Thursday, the procedure to remove the clot will be done, said Gyanesh. “The number of surgeries is going up and so are the cases getting deferred. Ten per cent of my patients are testing positive for Covid before surgery,” said surgical oncologist Gautam Mukhopadhyay.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-313
10-09-2020||Calcutta||Queue ordeal for the aged at banks||A 79-year-old pensioner collapsed on the road while waiting in a snaking queue outside a branch of a nationalised bank in Serampore, in Hooghy district, on Tuesday. He had been standing for over 40 minutes. Another septuagenarian visited a nationalised bank’s Dunlop Bridge branch twice in the past five days to withdraw her pension. She returned empty-handed on both days, the queue reminding her of the “mad rush during demonetisation”. Strict enforcement of social distancing protocols inside branches has made life miserable for customers, many of them senior citizens, who have to wait for hours outside. Serpentine queues are visible mostly outside nationalised banks, where senior citizens usually keep their savings. The rush is felt more in the first and last week of every month, when pension is disbursed. Only a handful of people are being allowed inside at a time — depending on the size of the branch, its staff and the number of counters. The rest are having to brave the sun and occasional showers for a considerable period of time outside. The sweaty conditions typical of the monsoon have made things worse. Around 10.45am on Wednesday, there were around 50 people standing outside a nationalised bank’s branch in Behala’s Sarsuna. Many senior citizens were in the queue. Some of them took refuge inside nearby stalls, their positions held by younger family members. Among them was Angurbala Das, in her eighties. Das was waiting on a rickshaw as a family member stood in the queue for her. “I do not leave home at all, except for bank visits,” said Das. The mercury outside touched 33 degrees but the RealFeel was around 42 degrees. At a branch of another nationalised bank in Bansdroni, some 40-odd people were standing in the queue outside a little after 12.30pm. The Celsius and RealFeel were 34 and 43 degrees, respectively. “I had to wait for 90 minutes before I could enter. All I needed was an interest certificate,” said Uttam Raha, 69. The people in the queue questioned the logic of having to wait for an hour to deposit a cheque or update a passbook. The days of complete lockdown in the state have compounded the problem, said bankers and customers. “The state was under complete lockdown on Monday. When the bank opened after two days on Tuesday, there was a huge rush. Friday and Saturday are again complete lockdowns. I am shuddered to think of the rush when the bank re-opens on Tuesday,” said a manager of a nationalised bank. The social distancing norms are being implemented according to the capacity of each branch. A 4,000sq feet branch with seven counters is allowing around 15 people at once. A 1,000sq ft branch with three counters is only allowing six people at a time. “Broadly, we are trying to ensure that a one-metre distance is maintained between two persons,” said an official of a nationalised bank in New Alipore. A senior banker said the pandemic had posed new challenges. “There is a staff crunch in many banks because a number of employees have tested positive for Covid-19,” he said. Many said the queues reminded them of the days of demonetisation. “I had the same feeling on both days I went to the bank. The very sight of so many people standing outside and no one knowing when their turn would come,” said a septuagenarian woman from Dunlop, who returned empty-handed from her bank on both days. A senior banker and a member of the State Level Bankers Committee in Bengal, which coordinates between the government and the banks, acknowledged the hardships senior citizens were facing. “Senior citizens are not comfortable using ATM cards and Net or mobile banking. They still prefer withdrawing cash from the counter,” he said. His bank has started “exclusive counters” for senior citizens at some branches, he said. “The counters are operational for around 10 days a month, when the rush of pensioners is maximum.” The queues get longer as one moves further away from Calcutta. The nationalised bank in Serampore, outside which the 79-year-old man collapsed on Monday, sees people queue up since 8am on several days. Banks open at 10am. “The customer base in a branch in the suburb is more than an urban branch. The city has more business and the branch penetration is more in urban areas. Because of the reduced penetration in semi-urban and rural areas, the number of customers in each branch is more,” said an official in the regional head office of a nationalised bank.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-313
10-09-2020||Calcutta||Assaulter claims altercation with woman co-rider ‘internal matter’||Abhishek Kumar Pandey, accused of assaulting and throwing a woman out of his Honda City and running over another woman while trying to flee on Saturday night, has told cops it was an “internal matter that went out of hand”. Pandey was arrested in Dum Dum on Tuesday night. He has apparently told cops he and the woman were supposed to get married in December and that they were arguing over when to buy a flat. The argument turned violent and they started hitting each other, he has apparently said. “He has claimed the woman had bitten his hand and that he, too, had slapped her when they were inside the car on Saturday night but they had no intention of going to the police against each other,” an officer in Lalbazar said. The police have sought forensic opinion to verify Pandey’s claim of the woman having bitten him, the officer said. A city court on Wednesday remanded him in police custody till September 16. Pandey’s lawyer told the court he and the woman were in a long-term relationship and that their marriage had to be postponed to December because of the pandemic. “They were having normal issues like any other couple. He wanted her to stay a little more but she wanted to go home. It was nothing serious,” the lawyer said. The police, however, said the fight was not just about going back home but about the plan to buy a flat. “He was engaged with a private insurance company. He lost his job during the lockdown. He recently joined a tea company on Shakespeare Sarani and had sought some time from the woman before he could buy a flat. This had been the bone of contention between the two for the past few weeks,” an officer who is investigating the matter said. The police have learnt during investigation that Pandey had gone to the woman’s home later on Saturday night to return her phone and other belongings. He had left them with the building’s guard. “The woman had initially tried to misguide us with a false name. She later said she wanted to save Pandey and that she had no intention of lodging any police complaint against him. But she had to involve the police because of Nilanjana Chatterjee who got grievously injured while trying to help the woman who was shouting inside the car,” the officer said. On Saturday night, the woman had told cops she had met Pandey five days ago and that his name was Amitabha Bose. Senior officers said the police would seek legal opinion on whether to charge the woman with giving false information initially to misguide cops. During investigation, the police have found that Pandey had taken shelter in a guest house in Mukundapur, around 4km from Anandapur police station, on Sunday night before checking out early in the morning the next day. He later met a lawyer in Sealdah. His mobile phone was switched off but the GPRS on his phone was working. His movement was tracked first to the guest house and then to the Sealdah home of the lawyer, after which he had switched off the GPRS. On Tuesday night, cops could again track him to a place near Dum Dum from where he was arrested.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-313
10-09-2020||Calcutta||Arrests for Durga Puja fake message on curfew||Two men have been arrested in Sodepur and Baranagar on the city’s northern outskirts on charges of circulating a fake message of curfew during Durga Puja on social media, police said. Raju Biswas from Ghola in Sodepur and Prabhujit Acharya from Baranagar have been booked under Section 505 (1) of the IPC and under various sections of the IT act. Section 505 (1) of the IPC deals with making, publishing or circulating any statement, rumour or report that may cause fear or alarm the public. The two arrests came within hours of chief minister Mamata Banerjee directing the police to find out who was responsible for spreading such false messages. “Fake WhatsApp messages are doing the rounds saying visitors to pandals will not be allowed to move around at night. There has been no meeting yet with Puja organisers. How can someone say like this?” Mamata had said on Tuesday. “First, prove that the government has issued such orders. Or they should be made to box their ears and do 100 squats.” The message that made rounds claimed that the Bengal government had decided there will be curfew between 5pm and 4am from Panchami to Ekadashi, a day after the Puja is over. The message went on to specify a long list of dos and don’ts for the puja this year, including that more than five people would not be allowed inside a pandal. The state police promptly identified the message and termed it “fake” on its twitter handle before sharing it with the city police. “A rumour regarding Durga Puja is being spread through WhatsApp. No such decision has been taken. Please do not forward this message. It’s fake. Action is being taken,” the police said on its Twitter handle. On Wednesday, a team of officers started tracking the IP addresses from where the post had first come into circulation and traced them to Biswas and Acharya. “We are checking the antecedence of the accused,” an officer of the Barrackpore commissionerate said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-313
10-09-2020||Calcutta||3 Calcutta hospitals fined on 1 Covid patient||The state health regulatory commission has fined two private hospitals in Calcutta that did not admit a 78-year-old Covid patient and a third for not taking proper care of him after admission, the panel chairperson said on Wednesday. Fortis Hospital, Anandapur, has been fined Rs 1 lakh for not admitting the patient in their intensive care unit (ICU) and for not making arrangements for his admission in any other hospital. All Asia Medical Institute in Gariahat has been fined Rs 50,000. The patient’s daughter took him to the Gariahat hospital after she was pro-mised admission, but on reaching there they were apparently told no bed was available. The third hospital — R Flemming Hospital in Topsia — did not take proper care of the man after admitting him, said retired judge Ashim Kumar Banerjee, the chairperson of the West Bengal Clinical Establishment Regulatory Commission. The patient, a resident of Hooghly’s Rishra, passed away on July 7 at a nursing home in Ekbalpore, where the family shifted him after they allegedly found that he was not getting proper care at R Flemming Hospital. He was taken to Fortis Hospital on July 3. “The man’s daughter lodged a complaint saying her father needed admission in the ICU but Fortis Hospital turned him away. During the hearing, the hospital said there was no bed available at the ICU,” said Banerjee. “We told the hospital they should have made arrangements for the man’s admission at another hospital if there was no ICU bed in their hospital. The hospital said they had tried to do so. But we felt the hospital could have done more,” the chairperson said. When the patient was taken to Fortis Hospital, he was suspected to be suffering from Covid-19. He tested positive for the disease at the Ekbalpore nursing home. An official at Fortis said: “The patient was brought to the hospital around midnight and stayed at our emergency for three hours, during which time our doctors stabilised him. We arranged for an ambulance. We also inquired with neighbouring hospitals but none had an ICU bed vacant…. We called up the family when an ICU bed became vacant in our hospital, but unfortunately the person had passed away by then,” he said. The Covid victim’s daughter told the commission that the family had called up many hospitals in the city. They either did not take calls or said they had no vacant beds. All Asia Medical Institute had promised admission but when the family took the elderly man there, the hospital refused admission. “We asked the hospital why the person who answered the call said a bed was available when no beds were vacant. We have fined them Rs 50,000,” the chairperson said. An official of All Asia Medical Institute said they would appeal against the fine. “The complainant could not give any evidence. We don’t have any record with us that shows that the patient had come to our hospital and refused admission. We had asked for some evidence so that we could inquire on our own, but the complainant was unable to give any evidence like call records or emergency unit records,” said an official of the hospital. The patient was admitted to R Flemming Hospital after being refused admission in other places, the daughter told the commission. “But when she went to the hospital to see her father about three hours later, she found he was not receiving proper care. We have fined Flemming Hospital Rs 50,000 for their negligence,” the retired judge said. This newspaper called the phone number of the hospital mentioned on its website but none answered. The commission fined ILS, Dum Dum, Rs 1 lakh for assigning a wrong blood group to a newborn. The hospital, where the baby was born, said her blood group was O positive. Later, before a surgery at another hospital, her blood group was found to be O negative. This newspaper called the number mentioned on the hospital’s website. The person who answered the call refused to comment.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-313
