11-09-2020||Calcutta||Our pick of your lockdown pictures||||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-310
11-09-2020||Calcutta||Lockdown timepass||Do you have an interest in art and always wanted to learn new forms and techniques of craft? Now that you are locked down and have hours of leisure time, try your hand at sculpting small figures. Get hold of air dry clay and you can try your hand at sculpting any shape. With Ganesha puja recently held and Durga puja coming up, you may start with the elephant god to build up the festive mood. Make your clay Open a pack of Fevicryl Mouldit and mix the resin and hardener provided inside. Use them in equal parts and mix till you form white clay. Keep in an air-tight container. You can also make your clay at home. For this, in a bowl take half cup cornflour/cornstarch and add half cup Fevicol glue, one teaspoon vegetable oil and vinegar and mix them together to form white air dry clay. Again, store it in an air-tight container. Step 1: Divide the clay into three different sized balls. Place the bigger ball at the bottom, then the medium one to form the body. Place the third ball on top to form the head, as shown in the picture on the left. Step 2 : Take two small portions of the clay and roll it to form the legs. Slightly press at the bottom of the legs to make the shape of the feet and attach it to the body.  Follow the pictures for reference.  Step 3 . Take two more  small clay portions and make the hands.  Step 4: Roll a small portion of the clay and attach to the face in the between, to make the trunk.    Step 5: Make two small-sized clay balls and press them to form flat round shapes to represent the ears. Attach behind the head.    Step 6: Now take a small amount of clay and make the eyes. Add a small laddoo in the left hand. Let it dry. Your Ganesha is ready. Shatadipa Bhattacharya Step 1: Take a big amount of clay and divide into five portions . One big oval shape for the shell and four small flattened  shapes for the legs.  Step 2: Place the four small flattened shapes at the bottom and attach them to the oval  shape to form the legs. Take another small round-shaped clay and make the head.  Step 3: Make the eyes. Take a modelling tool or use the side of a flattened surface to give designs on the back and legs.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-310
11-09-2020||Calcutta||Artistes back on stage for Rabindra-Nazrul shows||There were barely 15 people off stage and they were all involved with the programme — be it as technician, as official or as participant waiting for his or her turn. This year, the death anniversary observations of Rabindranath Tagore and Kazi Nazrul Islam by Hidco in New Town were special for both the audience and the artistes. As is customary, Rabindra Tirtha hosted the former and Nazrul Tirtha hosted the latter programme. But the venues are where the similarity ended with what happens in other years. “We are used to celebrating every occasion. But this year, because of the total lockdown in April, we had to let Nava Varsha go by. Only artistes of Dakshinee recorded some performances from home for us which we posted online. On Tagore’s birth anniversary in May, the Hidco chairman and the Rabindra Tirtha curator spoke on stage and we repeated last year’s 25 Baisakh programme on our Facebook page. When things started opening up in the Unlock phase, we thought of holding programmes at the venue but of course without an audience. The programmes were recorded on stage a couple of days in advance and uploaded on the Facebook pages of the respective venues and on the WBHidco YouTube page,” said an official. The occasion turned out to be memorable for the artistes for it was the first time almost all of them were taking the stage in months. “We are born to the stage. We experience an adrenaline rush while stepping on one. While I was thrilled to get on a stage after four and a half months, I had mixed feelings about the experience as there was no audience,” recalled elocutionist Pranati Tagore, who had a special word for the way the stage was beautifully decorated. The scent of tuberoses and jasmine is what struck another elocutionist, Shovansundar Bosu, as he took his place next to musicians in masks. He savoured the feeling of being part of a concert so much that even after recording was over for his performance, he stayed back till the end to watch others. “We were all in a relaxed mood which is never the case as we are always rushing to finish off and head for the next show during peak season,” said the Kestopur resident. Seeing Pranati Tagore wait as he took the stage, he asked her if she wanted to perform ahead of him. “She smilingly asked me to carry on.” Pranati smiled wistfully at the mention of how such days would be spent in other years. “Baishe Sravan would start early in the morning with a programme at Nimtala Ghat, where Kaviguru was cremated. About eight to nine shows would be lined up for the rest of the day,” she recalled, adding that she was not thinking of taking part in live concerts with audience any time soon, even if such gatherings were allowed. All the artistes rued the lack of audience reaction. “After a song, you can make out if the audience liked it. Here there was no one to react. It was a strange test to get used to,” said Prabuddha Raha, who has gone online with his weekly classes that took place in DB and CK blocks. Iman Chakraborty, whose performance opened the online show, felt the experience was more like a studio shoot. “But it felt great to sit on a stage after months. My last show before this was on March 10.” So excited was she to meet other performers that on seeing Srikanta Acharya, she took out her sanitiser bottle, applied some to her palm and extended her arm for a handshake. “He also did the same. We did that in jest to accept the new normal,” said Iman. Nazrul’s 44th death anniversary on August 29 also went the online way, with performances of four artistes from Chhayanat being recorded at Nazrul Tirtha the day before. “We deal round the year with Kazi Nazrul Islam’s work. We had prepared a documentary film titled Nazruler Churulia, by visiting the poet’s birthplace near Asansol and interviewing his nephew Rezaul Karim, the current president of Nazrul Academy, which is located where his house stood. It was to have been screened at Nazrul Tirtha on this occasion but that was cancelled in this pandemic situation,” said Somerita Mallik, president of Chhayanat. Speaking at the Baishey Srabon show, Hidco chairman Debashis Sen said though conventional concerts could not be held, the “online window has opened”. “We are getting an opportunity to reach our programme across the world,” he said, welcoming the artistes who “have conquered fear to come and perform” at Rabindra Tirtha, which he described as the “Santiniketan of Calcutta”. The two programmes can still be viewed on the WBHidco YouTube page.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-310
11-09-2020||Calcutta||Cards ready for new voters ||As part of the continuous updation of electoral rolls, voter identity cards of those who had applied for inclusion of name in the voter list are being given out since September 1. Other changes and corrections can be done when the summary revision of electoral rolls (SRER) takes place in November. According to sources, the exercise has been delayed given the extraordinary situation prevailing because of the Covid-19 pandemic. “Last year, the SRER had taken place from September to November. This year, it will be held from November 15 to December 16 in accordance with the Election Commission guidelines,” an official said. The publication of draft electoral rolls had taken place in January, followed by the final publication in February. Currently the distribution of cards is happening at election booths. In some cases, the booth level officers are also making door-to-door trips.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-310
11-09-2020||Calcutta||Bee-keeping class in Eco Park||At a time when unemployment is on the rise, an initiative has been introduced in New Town to help people earn on the side. It has to do with rearing bees and will also help increase greenery. On September 4, residents of nearby villages had been invited to Eco Park to be familiarised with beekeeping. Arijit Das, an expert in the field, explained the stakes. “Besides honey, bees produce wax that has a huge demand in the pharmaceutical industry. It forms the base of medicines, moisturisers and lipsticks,” he said. Debashis Sen encouraged the villagers to seize the opportunity. Sen is chairman of New Town Kolkata Development Authority (NKDA) and chairman cum managing director of Housing and Infrastructure Development Corporation (Hidco), that runs Eco Park. “We are not asking you to quit your day job but to add beekeeping to your portfolio for some additional income. You have an expert trainer for guidance and the whole project will be good for the environment.” The outreach programme is an initiative of Schoppen Solutions, of which Das is the founder. Last year, the bee corridor project had won a start-up contest and was incubated by Webel-BCC&I Tech Incubation Centre. Das then got a chance to build a prototype of his project at Eco Park, which was formally launched in March 2020, at the Banglar Gram enclosure. “Once you understand the basics, two hours of effort a day is enough to maintain bee colonies,” Das explained to the villagers. “But the most important factor is environment. Bees need lots of flowers nearby to suck nectar from. This is what they convert into honey and store in honeycombs that they create using beeswax. The excess honey is extracted by humans.” The villagers expressed curiosity about the project. “I don’t know anything about bees but I’m a farmer growing pumpkins, bitter gourd and jhinge in Rajarhat. If my neighbours start keeping bees I shall too,” said Sudhangsu Mondal. Tapas Biswas may be a labourer but he grew up in the Sundarbans, a region renowned for honey. “My father would head to the forest to get honey. This is a lucrative profession and I might take it up,” he said. Das encouraged the individuals to form a self-help group. “If an entire neighbourhood joins the cause everyone will grow flowering plants for the bees. It will be more conducive than a single person growing plants on his terrace,” he explained. Bees at home Das has two separate designs of bee boxes for rural and urban folk.  While the former, explained above, is targeted at maximum honey production, the one for urban folk is more aesthetic and meant for self-consumption of honey. The box, to be launched later this month, can be mounted on a wall and has transparent exteriors for enthusiasts to watch the bees at work inside. “It is linked to an app that will inform the user whenever anything is amiss or give estimates about the production of honey,” says Das. It costs about Rs 5,000, including the app and some 1,500 bees. It should produce about 3l of honey a year,” says Das. Any home in New Town or Salt Lake can practise apiculture successfully, provided there are flowers around — mustard, calendula, litchi, and mango are most suitable. As for the fear of stings, Das promised to teach handling bees in a way they do not find threatening. “Besides, bees die after stinging so they only sting as a last resort. They won’t harm you unless you’re out to destroy their colony,” he says.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-310
11-09-2020||Calcutta||Covid transmission rate dips||There has been a major dip in the transmission rate of Covid-19 in areas falling under the Bidhannagar Municipal Corporation, particularly in Salt Lake, health officials of the corporation are claiming. Transmission rate is the rate of increase of new Covid cases over a 14-day period. “The rate of transmission in Salt Lake, Teghoria, Baguiati and parts of Rajarhat was highest in the month of April,” said a health official. “It had peaked at 5.7 but since then the curve has flattened and there has been a decline in the curve of Covid transmission rate, especially in Salt Lake.” The reduced transmission rate, along with the dipping rate of active cases, shows a reverse of the trend prevailing in the rest of North 24-Parganas. The district has recorded more Covid cases than Calcutta in the later half of August. In May, the rate within the corporation area had dipped to 2.1 and then further to 1.2. In August, it had gone up to 1.7 but in September it has once again dipped to 1.4, the official added. Mayor Krishna Chakraborty said that a combined effort of raising awareness levels, constant disinfection drives and strict implementation of the total lockdowns, especially in Salt Lake, has resulted in the fall in the number of residents testing positive. “During Unlock-1, the cases rose as most people joined their workplaces or went to their businesses in crowded places like Burrabazar, that reported a high number of cases. But now, the figures are not rising drastically. People too have become more aware,” said Chakraborty. Residents, however, feel it’s too early to rejoice. “Only the other day, a neighbour tested positive,” said Preeti Agarwal, an FD Block resident. Buddhadeb Basu, a DB Block resident, said that a restaurant opposite their block had been shut for long as several of its employees had got Covid. “The restaurant has opened up now but new cases got reported in our block in August too,” said Basu. Deputy mayor infected Deputy mayor of the Bidhannagar Municipal Corporation Tapas Chatterjee tested positive earlier this week. Chatterjee had been organising Covid testing camps in Rajarhat and arranging for people to be sent to safe houses and quarantine centres. On Wednesday, he told The Telegraph Salt Lake that he was feeling better at a hospital off EM Bypass.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-311
11-09-2020||Calcutta||Woman delivers on road, treated and sent home||A woman was reunited with her family over 60km away last Friday along with her newborn son after more than a fortnight of being adrift. On August 17 around 1am, the Techno City police station was alerted about a vagrant woman writhing in labour pain in front of a milk booth near Tata Memorial Center. When a team with a woman constable visited the spot, they found the woman had already delivered the baby which was still tied to her umbilical cord. She was also bleeding profusely. When an ambulance could not be arranged, the police flagged down a taxi and took her to Bidhannagar Subdivisional Hospital. “We arranged for the umbilical cord to be snapped but realised that she was suffering from puerperal psychosis (a mental health illness that can affect a woman soon after she has a baby). She could neither give her address nor was she willing to nurse the newborn. Other new mothers in the ward helped out but the milk was not enough. We had to make arrangements for food,” said Partha Pratim Guha, hospital superintendant. Things got further complicated when the baby developed jaundice two days later. By then, the mother had accepted the baby and refused to part with him. “We needed to give the baby phototherapy. My colleagues suggested referring him to another hospital. But I decided to keep him with us and manage the treatment.” Once the woman responded to treatment, she could give her address — a refugee colony under Basanti police station in South 24-Parganas. Police got in touch with the family but no one was coming to take her. “The family, we learnt, was too poor to hire a car and come all the way. So I arranged for an ambulance while Techno City police station inspector in charge Partha Sikdar provided an escort to take mother and child home.” The woman, identified as Abeda Sardar, was handed over to her parents.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-311
11-09-2020||Calcutta||When school goes online||Who would have thought class would one day be disrupted by pets? “This student has five pet dogs and they climb over and under her whenever she performs asanas,” laughs Mousumi Mukherjee, an FE Block resident who teaches yoga and history to students of Our Lady Queen of the Missions, Salt Lake. “The dogs’ wagging tails have knocked the student’s phone off the table too.” Indira Mukherjee, a CD Block resident and tutor of arts subjects, has to compete with TV stars to vie for her students’ attention. “What else to do if their grannies sit next to them watching Star Jalsha all evening?” she asks. Another English tutor from Salt Lake Sector I says she can hear a maths tutor teaching when her student “unmutes” herself to ask a question over Zoom. “Two sisters share the room at home and both have tuitions simultaneously. What can they to do?” Like work-from-home, study-from-home is the new normal. Living rooms have replaced classrooms, phones have replaced blackboards and teachers no longer shout: “Stop talking!” They now say: “Mute yourselves!” The world of teachers has undergone a sea change since the lockdown.Speaking to a black screen The most obvious problem is that of not being able to see the students. “It’s odd addressing a screen without faces. One can neither judge from their expressions nor hear their response. So sometimes I have to tell them to switch on their video and audio feed but when the microphones are on for too many students, it creates an echo,” complains Madhurima Sen, who teaches English at Bidhannagar Government High School. Then there is the deluge of scanned documents sent on her WhatsApp. “My phone is ready to crash every day as students send their home tasks,” adds Sen, a resident of CE Block. The appeal of chemistry is in watching the chemicals change colour, says Purnendu Chakraborty, chemistry teacher at St Francis Xavier school. “Students used to wait for practical sessions. So now along with theory, I’m showing them YouTube videos of the reactions,” he says. Indira has a trying time teaching geography students maps and topography. “I’m sharing my screen and asking them to do as I do and to send me their scanned copies to check,” she says. Ditto with biology teacher Rima Mitra Ghosh, who used to draw diagrams extensively on the board. “I’m now drawing on a notebook and holding it up before the phone,” says the BK Block resident. Not to mention the strain teachers are undergoing. “My eyes start watering after reading the answers sent by students over WhatsApp. The glare is too much,” says Sagarika Ghosh of AC Block, who has retired from a school and now imparts tuition. Sumana Bagchi of BF Block is taking print-outs of her students’ answers, marking them with red ink pen and mailing them back. “I’m deducting marks for poor handwriting and encouraging them to send typed out answers as this is clearly the future,” says the English tutor. Perhaps no teachers have it tougher than those dealing with pre-school students, who refuse to sit still. “To teach A for apple, we are asking parents beforehand to hide an apple somewhere around the house and the kids are to go find that apple,” says Sneha Mukherjee of Little Laureates in Kestopur. “While the kids are happy at home now they may have separation anxiety once the lockdown is over. Maybe we’ll ask parents to sit outside class for a few days and reduce the duration of classes initially,” says Sneha. Eurokids in BB Block has been grooming tots for online admission tests into primary schools. “It’s not easy but we are using props, colourful videos, story-telling techniques. Initially the kids would eat or lie down during class but now they look forward to class, even asking to put on hairbands and deodorant,” says Soma Chandra. Then there is of course the ultimate challenge this season — Covid. “The mother of one of my students got infected while for another both his parents were infected. The situation was tough at home yet they tried their best to attend classes,” said a Bangur Avenue resident who teaches at a south Calcutta school. Mischief managed As if technology wasn’t enough, teachers now have to deal with students determined to stir trouble even during online classes. Puloma Sen of Hariyana Vidya Mandir removes anyone chatting on the chatbox during class. “Remove” is the digital equivalent of asking a student to leave a classroom. Teachers mention how some students log in during roll call and then walk off, of how they share their screen, thereby distracting others. Mousumi once had to remove a Class X student who was being fed by her mother during class! “Another time I removed a primary school girl from yoga class as she would just not respond. She wouldn’t turn on her audio or video feed either. Later the child confessed she had dozed off on her yoga mat before class began,” laughed Mousumi. Madhurima says that while using the “white board” feature on Zoom once, a student scribbled and drew pictures on it while she spoke. “And it was not possible to make out who did it,” she says.  When parents attend class Pompa Banerjee, a primary school teacher at Bharatiya Vidya Bhavan, has found parents prompting or even doing classwork for the kids. “It’s evident when I see the child looking around aimlessly. And when I ask to see his work he drags his copy from outside the frame and shows me,” says the GC Block resident. “I ask the parents to let the kids be independent. Bagchi knows of colleagues who have parents sitting in during class, as if testing the teachers. “It’s counter-productive,” she says. Mousumi talks about bare-chested, pot-bellied fathers, walking into the frame and pulling off underwear from clotheslines behind students. “In other homes, mothers shout at younger siblings while the elder one is attending class. Some dads have even tried to click photos of young teachers! Many parents are uncouth and it is they who need training before their kids,” the lady shakes her head.  Full attendance If there’s one upside to online classes it’s attendance. “Never before have I had 100 per cent attendance for such a long stretch of time. No one is late for class and new students have joined from south and north Calcutta and even Mumbai for my English tuitions! One student was travelling during class one day and he attended the session sitting in his car,” says Sumana. The irony is that even Sumana, a BF Block resident, is in Delhi at the moment but most of her students don’t even know it. “While lazy students can while away their time on online classes, this is a fantastic set up for sincere students.” Puloma is delighted with attendance too. “I’ve even had ill students attending class lying in bed, dressed in uniform,” she says. Mousumi feels students who were timid in school have blossomed during online classes as they are in their own lair now. “They are more interactive, showing me their pets, plants, balconies and even baby brothers and sisters,” she says. Honesty test “When students cheat in broad daylight under the noses of their teachers at school, how will we stop them from doing so in the sanctuary of their homes?” asks Sagarika, who feels open-book exams may be the only way out.   Puloma has been holding oral tests for primary school kids, ensuring they look straight into the camera while answering and straining her ears to ensure there is no prompting from behind. When Purnendu sat to check online chemistry test papers he found the answers rather bookish. “They must have been Googled,” he says. “Henceforth I asked parents to invigilate during tests.” But Rahul Mojumder, primary school teacher of St. Francis Xavier School, has had unbelievable response. “I told the kids these questions were a test  of honesty. And I was overwhelmed to see many had left questions blank instead of copying them off. I praised their integrity and they loved it. Now when I mention their upcoming half-yearly exams, they tell me it’s not ‘half-yearly’ but ‘honesty’ exams,” he laughs.  Neither online nor off Network issues seem like First World problems compared to the hardships faced by certain students. “Parents of our students are coming to school once a month to pick up their mid-day meal ration of rice and lentils. It’s ridiculous to expect them to have smartphones,” says Bipasa Das Biswas, head teacher of Bidyadhari Vidyalaya in Duttabad. The school has been distributing worksheets to the parents when they come for rations but after Amphan many of families left for the Sundarbans to salvage what they could of their ancestral homes there. “When their roofs have blown away can we expect them to retain their homework?” asks the resident of Karunamoyee. “Besides, the chief minister has announced that this year all students will be promoted and so they are laid back.” Despite this order, Suparna Bose and other teachers of Krishnapur Chanchal Kumari Balika Vidyalay between Sector V and New Town, have been telling students they must hand in assignments to get promoted.  Why pay for online class While teachers felt appreciated when showered with cards and videos of songs and dances on Teachers’ Day last week, they have mixed feelings for parents. “Many parents have not paid me in months,” says Indira. “All my tutor friends are facing the same problem. I find it demeaning to ask payment for a vocation that is sacred to me but parents are taking advantage of the situation and simply ignoring the issue. It cannot be financial constraints either since these families are celebrating birthdays and anniversaries without a worry amidst lockdown.” Purnendu’s colleagues in other schools are suffering too. “Many parents feel fees are to be paid for sending children to school. They don’t regard online classes as education,” he says. This when the teachers say they are slogging harder than ever before. “It has taken hours of technical assistance and training sessions, topped with continuous pressure to prepare online teaching aids, an area of expertise we were expected to master overnight. We have been working 12 to 14 hours a day to help keep kids engaged,” says the teacher of Bangur Avenue. Suparna has been working as hard as she had to in the initial years of her career. “If it wasn’t hard enough teaching Anton Chekhov to first generation learners, I’m doing it over the phone now, sending them word meaning and notes over voice message. I’m calling each of my 52 students and urging them to do their assignments,” says the resident of Eastern High in New Town. “Some parents are claiming that since only one teacher teaches their child online they should not have to pay for the school’s operational costs. It’s painful,” says Soma of Eurokids. Rima, however, feels for both sides. “I’m working very hard for the students but I wish I could do more. In school, I’d haul them up and discipline them for putting a toe out of line but now I can’t even see them. The students’ motivation and dedication have fallen and we have to push them harder than ever to work.” The Sector I tutor however shares how some of her colleagues are taking it easy now. “They are sending video links instead of slogging it out one-on-one, they are feigning network problems whenever it rains and cutting short their classes. It’s a sham!” The teacher from Bangur Avenue, who teaches in Class II, feels most classes are being held to justify salaries. “The children probably don’t need an online class or an online test as much as their teacher needs it to keep receiving his or her salary at the end of the month,” she says.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-311
11-09-2020||Calcutta||Nilanjana Chatterjee: Saviour on road to recovery||Nilanjana Chatterjee, who suffered fractures in her left leg while trying to save a woman who was screaming  in a car on Saturday night near the Ruby crossing, was able to walk again on Thursday, albeit with the help of a walker. She walked twice during the day in her cabin, said an official of Ruby General Hospital, where the 48-year-old woman is undergoing treatment. “She responded very well to doctor’s instructions. Doctors are satisfied with the way her wound is healing,” the official said. She will be made to walk in her cabin on Friday, too. If the progress is satisfactory, doctors will try to make her walk in the corridor on Saturday. “If everything goes according to plan, we may discharge her on Sunday,” the official said. Nilanjana was returning home with her husband in their car when she heard screams of a woman inside another car. Her husband stopped their car blocking the way of the other car, a Honda City. The woman, who was screaming, was then allegedly thrown out of the car. When Nilanjana reached out to the woman, the man at the wheel of the Honda City, identified as Abhishek Kumar Pandey, pressed the accelerator and fled. The car ran over Nilanjana’s left leg. She suffered fractures in the tibia and fibula of her left leg. Pandey has been arrested. The woman who was allegedly beaten and thrown off the Honda City got her statement recorded before a magistrate in the Alipore court on Thursday. The statement can be considered as primary evidence in court as it has been recorded under Section 164 of the CrPC. Nilanjana’s husband Deep Satpati, who was a witness to the incident, also got his statement recorded before the magistrate on Thursday. The police carried out a reconstruction of Saturday night’s incident by taking the accused with them to the spot on Wednesday night.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-311
11-09-2020||Calcutta||Jadavpur University teacher files police complaint||A Jadavpur University teacher who was identified by her “Adivasi” background by a student of another institution and told that she was not qualified to comment on exams has written to Jadavpur police station what she has been facing on social media. The associate professor’s writing on Facebook that an academic year could not be more important than a student’s life was the trigger. Maroona Murmu told Metro that the experience was “dehumanising and amounting to harassment”. She lodged a formal complaint with the police station eight days after she had faced the student’s rant because she continues to be trolled and the student had defended whatever she had said in a post on social media, Murmu said on Thursday. The complaint, running into four pages, was mailed to the officer in charge of Jadavpur police station early on Thursday. “In the complaint I have narrated the chronology of what I experienced on my Facebook wall, starting from September 2 when the student — whom I did not know — posted comments identifying me by my ‘Adivasi’ background and said in various ways that I was not qualified to comment on examinations given my background. These comments are dehumanising and amount to harassment. I have asked the police to do what they deem fit based on the complaint,” she said. The associate professor of JU's history department said the post the student had put out on social media on Monday night virtually defending what she had earlier said “was another round of humiliation”. “Following legal advice, I decided to lodge the complaint.” She has said in her complaint that the actions of the student of a government college in the city fall under the SC/ST atrocities prevention act, Murmu, who has been teaching at JU for over a decade, said. “In the complaint I have written, it also falls under sections of the IPC, which describe offences about promoting enmity in different groups on grounds of religion, race, creed, place of birth. I want the police administration to take it up,” Murmu said. The teacher said 1,900 comments in support of the student had flooded her comment box when she sent the complaint. She told this newspaper: “I feel that certain rights of mine, both as an individual and also as a person belonging to a particular ethnic background, have been violated.” Murmu said someone sent her a screenshot suggesting that hashtags like #stopreservation and #shameeonmurmu has been created to express support for the accused. “Presently Murmu Ji is spewing hatred against… (she has named the student). Our first order of business would be to stall her. Plz friends report against her profile in every social media platform,” says one purported post from this group. An officer at Lalbazar said cops had taken cognisance of the complaint and an FIR would be lodged. “We are in touch with Jadavpur police station,” the officer said. The exchange between Murmu and the student had taken place on September 2 when most people in the country were debating the central government’s decision to conduct exams despite the pandemic. Commenting on a friend’s post, the JU teacher had written on Facebook: “One year in this long life cannot be bigger than life itself, no exams this time.” The student responded saying: “Maroona Murmu, that’s what surprised me…. How could a professor of JU think like that…. I am astonished…. I don’t want to belittle you, but this is the difference between quota and unquota…. You don’t need to be a so-called professor to understand that life is more important than life’s one year…. The problem is not about missing a year…. It is about progress because of caste and being disadvantaged for life despite having the ability….” After she found a battery of takers, the student had posted on September 3: “This morning, just reminded one ‘Murmu’ Santhali in restrained language that she is an Adivasi…. But some uncles and aunts of her age reminded me that some so-called professors sitting at home have grown a thicker layer of fat.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-311
11-09-2020||Calcutta||Covid waste finds its way to yellow bins in Calcutta||Yellow bins on Calcutta’s roads are now being put to better use. About 70 per cent of the waste in them is Covid or biomedical waste, the agency that cleans the bins on the civic body’s behalf has said. The bins have labels saying they are meant for Covid waste. Other biomedical waste, too, can also be dumped in the bins, an official of the agency said. Discarded masks, gloves, PPEs, syringes, cottons, sanitary napkins, used medicine strips and bandages can be dumped in these bins. Metro had on August 22 reported that the bins had been filled with food and kitchen waste and construction and demolition waste, none of which is meant to be dumped in them. “The Calcutta Municipal Corporation ran awareness campaigns in several places about what to dump in these bins. Besides, media reports helped in making people more aware,” Ramakant Burman, an official of GreenTech Environ, the agency, said. “We are now getting nearly 70 per cent biomedical waste in the bins. Some people, though, still dump kitchen waste and construction and demolition waste.” The agency clears the bins once every week. The CMC has installed 200 bins across the city for people to dump Covid waste, Burman said. After the yellow bins were installed across the city, the collection of waste from Covid positive people in home isolation has gone down, the official of the agency said. “Earlier, we used to collect Covid waste from 200-odd homes every day. Now, we are collecting waste from 50 homes in a day. It seems most people are dumping Covid waste in the yellow bins.” The agency now receives fewer calls from civic officials asking its officials to collect PPEs lying on the road. “We are collecting plenty of PPEs from the bins. It seems a lot of private practitioners and other people who wear PPEs are dumping them in the bins,” the official said. Apart from Covid waste, people can dump any biomedical waste in the bins, Burman said. “Any waste that is contaminated with body fluid is considered as biomedical waste.” The waste collected from the bins is taken to a plant belonging to the agency and burnt. The residual ash is sent to an engineered landfill in Haldia, he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-311
11-09-2020||Calcutta||Scramble for milk dries up Calcutta stock||The supply of milk was way short of the demand across the city on Thursday morning as people tried to stock up for Friday and Saturday, the two total lockdown days. By evening, the government had called off the total lockdown on Saturday (September 12). The government hasn’t kept milk on the list of essential commodities that enjoy relaxation during days of total lockdown and so the rush to stock up. A shop owner at Gariahat who stocks multiple brands of milk said the demand was almost three times the normal. “Regular customers who usually buy four packets of milk in the morning asked for 12 packets. Some called up and placed their orders in advance,” he said. Every morning, Calcutta and its adjoining areas require around 1.5 million litres of milk. Amul with close to 700,000 litres is the market leader followed by Red Cow with close to 200,000 litres. Mother Dairy and Metro Dairy supply about 170,000 litres each. Officials of various dairies quoted distributors as saying retailers had possibly not realised the extent of the demand. Besides, what contributed to the spike was Jitiya Puja, which is observed by people hailing from parts of Bihar, Uttar Pradesh and Jharkhand. Many distributors said they did not place full orders because retailers were unsure if they could store the unsold milk. Two days of lockdown would have posed a challenge in storing unsold packets of milk in the right temperature. “Milk is a perishable item that reaches outlets from the plants and it needs to be stored at eight degrees centigrade or below,” Abhijit Maity of Amul said. The company has 450 distributors catering to more than 17,000 outlets across the state. Some retail chains like Spencers have a cold chain mechanism wherein they can preserve milk almost at the same temperature as that of the plants where it is produced. But even these outlets ran short of supply on Thursday evening. “We only have Tetra Paks. Milk packets are sold out,” an executive of Spencers at Acropolis Mall said in the evening. Large parts of Ballygunge, Gariahat, Kasba, Tollygunge, and Behala in the south and Maniktala, Phoolbagan, Kankurgachhi, Lake Town, and Kalinidi in the north ran out of milk by 11am on Thursday. There is another problem as well. “It is difficult to meet a sudden surge in demand. Every plant has a maximum capacity of production and that can’t be increased overnight,” Sushmita Mukherjee, the chief general manager of Mother Dairy, said. The company has close to 200 outlets of its own and 150 kiosks.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-311
11-09-2020||Calcutta||Virtual tour of Victoria Memorial Hall||A virtual tour of the Victoria Memorial Hall (VMH) garden, accompanied by notes on the various landmarks within the precincts, is available at the Google Arts and Culture website. Titled The Taj of the Raj: The Victoria Memorial Hall and its Gardens, the tour takes the virtual visitor through lush green surroundings of the memorial with a commentary on the architectural pieces and the history of the garden.1500 “We will soon have a link of this virtual tour at our official VMH website. Google Arts and Culture will also do a virtual tour of our galleries,” said Jayanta Sengupta, curator, VMH. The marble monument and the garden have been off limits to visitors since March 15 because of the Covid-19 pandemic. On March 15, the most visited museum in the country had recorded a footfall of 11,000. Not just tourists from outside, the VMH with its 57-acre garden attracts even the Calcuttan for a daily stroll amidst its greens. But how many really know the various landmarks on the campus and the stories behind them? Memorial enthusiasts keen to know the history of the landmarks can take the virtual tour. The tour informs the viewer, for instance, that the identical ornamental cast iron gates on the northern and southern sides were designed by Vincent Esch, who was the superintending architect of the Memorial, during its construction in 1921 and was “shipped in whole from England”. The garden scheme was drawn up in 1915 by landscape gardeners and architects, along with experts like David Prain (who was director of the Botanical Survey of India, Royal Botanic Garden, Calcutta, and he Royal Botanic Gardens at Kew Gardens, London) and the first Earl Redesdale (acknowledged as one of the greatest amateur authorities on the subject at the time). The 57-acre Memorial campus includes the garden, the museum, six water bodies, nearly 2,800 trees, shrubs and hedges representing 80 species and a nursery garden.The tour focuses on the King Edward VII Memorial Arch with a bronze equestrian statue of the king, the eldest son of Queen Victoria, the marble statue of Lord Curzon right in front of the southern façade of the building and the bronze statue of Queen Victoria on the northern side of the campus. Sculpted by Sir George Frampton, a renowned sculptor of his time, Victoria’s statue was installed in 1901 on Red Road but was subsequently moved in front of the VMH building in 1921. Lord Curzon, who was the viceroy of British India from 1899 to 1905, played a key role in the making of the memorial. Views of the chhatri style pavilions on the four corner turrets exemplify the Indo-Saracenic architecture in India. A black-and white marble floored terrace runs around the building above the basement and provides access to two colonnaded areas, the Eastern and Western Quadrangles, which are popular spaces used for public programmes. The front lobby in the northern (main) entrance of the Hall, is also on view. A 360-degree view of each of these spots is provided and a virtual visitor can amble along a few paces at each of these spots that provide a real-time feel and view.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-311
11-09-2020||Calcutta||Calcutta school gives tech lessons to parents||Two schools on the city’s northern outskirts have been training parents on the basics of technology so that they can help their children with online learning. St Augustine’s Day School, which has branches in Barrackpore and Shyamnagar, have been explaining to parents the know-how of online classes, how to enter a class when a teacher shares a link or how to scan and upload assignments. The training programme is for parents whose children are in nursery and from classes I-VI. The school authorities realised that beyond that age students are “savvy enough online” and can handle online classes and assignments by themselves. Parents who want some help are coming to school for the sessions with the teachers because the school realised there were some parents who were struggling and that they required help. “While children were attending classes a lot of queries came from parents who sat with them. There are things they were unable to do online and needed help; so, we realised we should guide them,” Janet Gasper Chowdhury, the president of St Augustine’s Education Society, which runs the two schools, said. “It’s not that everybody has issues with technology but a large section does.” The Barrackpore school has a strength of 2,800 and the Shyamnagar one 1,500 up to Class VI. The sessions will be for an hour or two depending on the requirement and though it is open to both parents the school has noticed either the father or the mother has been opting for it. Schoolteachers, whether in the city or outside, have switched to the online mode of teaching during the pandemic. But it is also a challenge for parents to guide their children with the devices and how they are used when they themselves might not be comfortable with them. “I went to school yesterday and cleared my doubts about uploading assignments on the online platform. In fact, I was facing problems with links and once we got disconnected we were finding it difficult to rejoin,” Avijit Dey whose son is in the Shyamnagar school said on Thursday. Many parents said it was easier and comfortable to seek clarification from teachers in person rather than ask them during online classes. The pandemic and the subsequent online classes have been an eye-opener for both parents and schools when it came to handling smart devices. “It was a shock… we noticed many parents did not have smartphones and many were not savvy with their usage and applications apart from making phone calls,” Gasper Chowdhury said. On many occasions, the children who are adept at it will not help their parents because they are apprehensive that they will join social media platforms that children frequent. For the pre-primary, the school has been training parents on how they should teach their kids at home. “We train them in the Montessori method of teaching. We don’t want the child to get another set of instructions at home,” Gasper Chowdhury said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-311
11-09-2020||Calcutta||UK visa rule tweak to aid students||The UK has announced a new points-based immigration system that will replace the previous Tier 4 visa route and promises to make the process “more streamlined” and simplified for students and their institutes in that country. The new Student Route will open for international students on October 5, the British high commission in New Delhi said in a statement issued on Thursday. “Under the new system, students will require a total of 70 points to be granted a visa. They will achieve the required points if they can demonstrate that they have an offer from an approved educational institution, speak English and are able to support themselves during their studies in the UK,” the release said. Under the new system, students will also be able to make a visa application up to six months  before their course starts, unlike three months under Tier 4, and they will not be required to resubmit proof of academic qualifications with their visa application. The statement also mentions that the UK recognises that a section of overseas students is opting to defer their entry into courses in the UK till the spring semester of 2021 because of Covid-19 and says the new visa route will benefit them. The Graduate route for international students to allow them to work or look for work will open in summer 2021, the statement said. "This will allow eligible international students... who have completed undergraduate and master's degree to stay for two years and those who have completed a PhD to stay for three years to work or look for work.” Jan Thompson, the UK’s acting high commissioner to India, said: “India accounts for one of the UK's largest groups of international students…. Now that we have left the EU, we can introduce this streamlined visa route and the Graduate Route in summer 2021, to ensure the brightest and the best students continue to pick the UK.” Barbara Wickham, director, British Council India, said: “The new Student route is a welcome announcement…. It offers greater flexibility and ease of immigration for applicants.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-311
11-09-2020||Calcutta||Disabled patient accuses Calcutta lab of being unfriendly||A 33-year-old physically challenged woman has lodged a complaint with the West Bengal Clinical Establishment Regulatory Commission against a diagnostic centre saying the USG room or the washrooms there were not equipped for a person with physical disabilities, the panel chairperson said on Thursday. The woman has told the commission that she faced difficulties when she went to Quadra Medical Services, on Hazra Road, for an ultrasonography test in August last year. The woman approached the commission in January this year. The woman’s complaint has brought to the fore an issue that is not restricted to one clinical establishment. Only a handful of public spaces in the city have facilities that can make visits by physically challenged people free of troubles. During the hearing conducted by the commission on Thursday, an official from Quadra said they were unable to create a washroom designed for the physically challenged as they did not have any more space in the building and any new construction would violate rules of the Calcutta Municipal Corporation (CMC). Retired judge Ashim Kumar Banerjee, the chairperson of the commission, said they had told the CMC requesting it to consider offering some relaxation to Quadra so it could do the needful. “The woman told us that she faced problems both in the room where ultrasonography was done and also while using washrooms. We have told the CMC to consider the case in a humanitarian context and see if they can allow some relaxation to construct a toilet for the physically challenged people,” Banerjee said. People with physical disabilities face similar problems at clinical establishments across the city, said disability rights activists, doctors, civic officials and architects. Jeeja Ghosh, a disability rights activist, said most public spaces in the city were not friendly for people with disabilities. “It is a problem that is faced everywhere. The door in washrooms meant for people with disabilities must be wider than a door in washrooms for people without disabilities. Besides, the basins and urinals must be at a lower height so that someone who is in a wheelchair can use them. Also, there should be handrails on the walls,” Ghosh said. The CMC’s Building Rules, 2009, do mention that all public utility buildings should have “disabled friendly devices like ramps with railing, toilet and drinking water facilities. Braille or auditory signals shall be provided in all lifts”. Not all public utility buildings adhere to the rules. Moreover, the buildings that came up or the building plans approved before 2009 often did not make provisions for people with disabilities. Architect Abin Chaudhuri said the National Building Code had very clear instructions on what facilities a public utility should have to welcome people with disabilities. “The code is detailed and clear. I also think the civic authorities should make a rule that forces owners of old public utility buildings to make changes so the buildings become friendly to physically challenged people. They should do whatever is possible within the structure. No one stops them from doing that,” he said. “But none would do so till the authorities force them. That is why a rule or a law is needed to that effect.” In the case of Quadra, the building has ramps and lifts but no toilet especially designed for the physically challenged. “We do not deny that this is a problem. After the woman complained to us, we fitted hand railings on the walls of our washrooms. But we do not have space to construct a new washroom for people with disabilities. If the CMC offers some relaxation, we can build a washroom,” said Pinak Pani Bhattacharya, one of the directors of Quadra. A CMC official said Quadra did not need their permission to lower the height of basins, urinals or commode. The clinical establishment regulatory commission on Thursday asked Midland Nursing Home, In Belghoria,  to deposit Rs 5 lakh with it after it found that the hospital was prima facie negligent in dealing with an 18-year-old who went there in July. The teenager died subsequently. “The youth’s mother lodged a complaint saying he was taken to Midland... . Midland conducted a rapid test and said the teenager was Covid  positive. They asked the family to take him elsewhere,” said Banerjee. During Thursday’s hearing, Midland officials said the hospital was not equipped to treat Covid patients. “We told them they should have given him some treatment. We have asked the nursing home to file an affidavit explaining what med-ical aid they had extended to the patient. We have asked Midland to deposit Rs 5 lakh as an interim measure…. Prima facie, it seems they were negligent,” said Banerjee. An official of Midland, when contacted, said he was on medical leave and would not be able to speak.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-312
11-09-2020||Calcutta||UGC okays state final semester exam plan||The University Grants Commission on Thursday okayed the state higher education department’s proposal to hold final-year undergraduate and postgraduate exams between October 1 and 18, a department official said. Education minister Partha Chatterjee had on August 31 announced that state-aided universities will have to conduct the end semester exams between October 1 and 18. But universities did not announce the exam schedule as the UGC was still to approve the dates, as mandated by the Supreme Court in its August 28 order. If any state or Union territory, in exercise of the jurisdiction of the Disaster Management Act, 2005, decides it is not possible to hold the exams by September 30 in keeping with UGC’s July 6 advisory, it can seek an extension from the UGC, the apex court had said. Manish Jain, the higher education department principal secretary, had on September 2 sought the UGC’s permission in a letter to its chairman. The UGC gave its permission on Thursday and universities have been advised to announce the exam schedule at the earliest, a department official said. Jadavpur University will hold the end semester exams in arts and science between October 1 and 10, university pro vice-chancellor Pradip Ghosh said on Thursday afternoon. “A notification with the detailed schedule will be issued soon.” Earlier this week, the university had finalised the modalities for holding the exams and students started filling forms. The schedule hadn’t been announced, though. Soma Bandyopadhyay, the vice-chancellor of the West Bengal University of Teachers’ Training, said BEd and MEd final semester exams would be held between October 1 and 9. North Bengal University will hold the end semester exams from October 1 to 8, vice-chancellor Subiresh Bhattacharya said. Calcutta University will hold the end semester exams between October 1 and 18, an official said. All the universities feel students should not have to take the exams on the campus in the middle of the pandemic. Questions papers will be emailed or sent via WhatsApp. Jadavpur University has announced to provide students with smartphones and high-speed data packs so that everyone can take the exams. Calcutta University has plans to upload final-year and end semester undergraduate question papers on its website. Candidates can take the exams at their homes and mail back the answers or send them over WhatsApp within 24 hours. Among the state universities, six, including JU, had published the results in July, following the state higher education department’s June 27 directive that recommended graduating students be evaluated based on their performance in previous semesters and internal assessments.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-312
11-09-2020||Calcutta||How to catch a Metro from Monday in Calcutta ||The first Metro train on commercial run in 174 days will leave the terminal stations at 8am on Monday but booking of e-passes will start at 8pm on Sunday, officials of the utility said. The timings, number of trains and their frequency have been changed. The last trains will leave the terminal stations at 7pm. “Only smart card users will be allowed to travel by Metro trains,” said Metro general manager Manoj Joshi. New smart cards can be bought from stations — at counters and smart card vending machines at some stations. Existing smart card users can recharge at stations or online — from the Metro app and website. The smart card will be for access to the platform. To enter a station, a person needs a “QR code-based colour coded e-pass”. The following steps have to be taken to get a pass: The passenger will have to show the pass at the station gate and enter the station at any time in the designated slot. “There will be 12 colour codes, each for entry during one slot. The colour for each slot will be known by cops posted at the gates,” said a representative of the agency which has developed the system. If one books a pass from a smartphone, the colour-coded pass will be downloaded in the service. General manager Joshi said people without phones can access the link through a computer and take a colour print-out of the pass. But Metro sources said the carrier did not expect many people without phones to turn up at the stations. The booking window will open 12 hours before the first train of the day. “The URL will go live from 8pm on Sunday. Monday’s passes will be available from 8pm on Sunday to 7.59pm on Monday. From 8pm on Monday, Tuesday’s passes will be available on the system,” an official said. The pass is only for entry into the station. For platform access, a smart card is a must, said Metro officials. An algorithm — based on data provided by Metro Railway — that is driving the system has also computed an estimated volume of passengers expected to enter and exit each station within each slot. Around 1,000 people are expected to board trains from Dum Dum between 8am and 9am on Monday, said the developer. During the same slot, only 25 are expected to board trains from Park Street. The e-passes will be allotted to passengers based on these calculations. A set of standard operating procedures — based on these computations — has also been shared with the police for deployment at stations. The idea is to have more deployment at stations where more passengers are expected. All but two stations will have one gate each for entry and exit. Dum Dum and Esplanade will have two gates each for both. “We used to carry over 3,000 passengers on a train during peak rush. If that number has to be brought down to 400 per train, we need some checks,” said an official. The carrier hopes to ferry 100,000 to 120,000 people every day. The pre-Covid daily count was over 600,000. Metro had suspended service on March 23 as a precaution against Covid-19. Monday’s service will mark the first commercial run since. On Sunday, Metro will run trains for free for NEET candidates and their guardians. From Monday, according to officials, 50 passengers will be allowed in each of the eight coaches and they have to keep the space of one seat in between. Passengers will also have to wear masks and undergo thermal scanning at the station entrances. The first and last trains will now leave the terminal stations at 8am and 7pm, respectively. The previous timings were 6.45am and 9.55pm. “Many of our staff were dependent on suburban trains to come to work and go home. Since trains are suspended now, they will have to leave a little early,” said Indrani Banerjee, the Metro spokesperson.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-312
