12-09-2020||Calcutta||The man who grasped statistics and its untapped potential||In 1981, I was a young man in my late teens, about to make the transition from school to college. My mother was a professor of economics and I was veering towards making a career in economics as well. When our higher secondary results were declared, I went to Presidency College to pick up a form to apply for the honours course in economics. At that time, I was told that each candidate could apply for two subjects. After some thought I picked up another form for statistics. Although I had studied statistics in plus+2, I had not developed a liking for the subject as our statistics teachers in high school could not provide enough motivation for us to develop an appreciation for the topic. Hence, while I may have filled in applications for both subjects, I was not seriously thinking about majoring in statistics at that point of time. Being successful in both admission tests, I then had to decide. Economics or statistics honours? Although I was still overwhelmingly in favour of joining the economics course, I met Prof Atindra Mohan Gun, with whom my father was  acquainted, for advice. I knew that being the head of the department of statistics, his opinion was likely to be biased towards his subject, but I considered myself mature enough to be able to weigh his advice rationally. That meeting changed the course of my life. Of course, Prof Gun explained to me why somebody should study statistics, and what options a well-trained statistician had. He also told me that the discipline was yet to attain its full potential, a statement which seems prophetic today with the emergence of analytics and data science. To some extent, I was expecting to hear such things. But to a greater extent, it was the force of his personality which convinced me. By the time I left his chamber, I had made up my mind. I joined the statistics honours course in Presidency College, and since then, never for a single day in my life have I regretted my decision. It is debatable whether Presidency College in the 1980s was qualitatively at par with the Presidency College of 1950s and 60s. But there is no doubt that it was still the best college of the state. And Prof Gun was prominent among the handful of teachers whose dedication allowed the college to retain this distinction. As a teacher his effectiveness was beyond question. Within the classroom he was a perfectionist. His class-notes were complete in every respect, and simply compiling them was enough to produce a complete textbook. He was also a strict disciplinarian. If a group of students would bunk a certain class, he would send the non-teaching staff to look for them, and, if found, haul them back to class. Occasionally he would wander in the classrooms of younger teachers and observe, sometimes for long durations, how they fared in class. Yet, he was a classic old school professor, who cared not only about students’ education but also about their complete well-being. There was an aura about him, which all teachers and professors hope to attain, but very few actually do. He was an institution by himself. Prof Gun was extremely protective of the status and stature of Presidency College. He strongly resented any move to dilute the elite status of the college. This led him to several conflicts with the state’s higher education authorities of the time which continued for almost the entire second half of his tenure at the college. He was a very vocal proponent of autonomy for Presidency College but that did not happen during his tenure, although the institution has now been converted into a university. It is also widely believed that he was passed over for several appointments and positions because he did not see eye-to-eye with the authorities controlling the education system. It is to our great pleasure and satisfaction that in 2012, on Teacher’s Day (September 5), we could felicitate Prof Gun, together with his contemporaries Prof Milan K. Gupta and Prof Bhagbat Dasgupta, at Presidency University on their attaining the milestone of 80 years. And although we did not realise it at the time, it was later pointed out that the year 2012 also marked the 50th year of the publication of the famous book, Fundamentals of Statistics, co-authored by these three legendary professors. And this year, 2020, marks the 50th year of their other famous book, An Outline of Statistical Theory. One is amazed to think that over the last five-six decades no other textbook has come to the market which could effectively replace these epic texts; and that too in a modern subject like statistics which is constantly evolving. Generations of statisticians, many of whom have never seen Prof Gun, or professors Gupta and Dasgupta, have learnt the subject through these textbooks, and the same may happen for many generations in future.  The entire community should be grateful to them for leaving behind such valuable resources for us. It is also my great personal satisfaction that I got to dedicate one of my own books to him. In 2016, I wrote a book on predictive analytics with my wife Srabashi, who was also a student of Prof Gun and my classmate at Presidency College. We were very happy to pay our intellectual debt to him through the dedication, and he was also very happy when we visited him at his residence to present him a copy of the book. That was in 2016, and it was my last meeting with him. The demise of Prof Gun signals the end of an era. I consider myself to be fortunate to have him as my first statistics mentor. (Ayanendranath Basu is a professor at Indian Statistical Institute)||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-309
12-09-2020||Calcutta||Covid surveyors see healthy change in residents||The response to the survey to identify comorbidities among Calcuttans, which started four days ago, suggests the city has started taking public health issues more seriously than it did before Covid-19 had struck, those connected with the survey said. Volunteers and health workers who are visiting houses as part of the survey said the resistance they would face during the anti-dengue or polio vaccination drive was missing when they were asking residents about their comorbidities. The survey on comorbidities is being undertaken to make Covid response in the city more focussed. Public health experts and civic officials said the overwhelming death toll of Covid-19  - which till September 11 claimed 3,828 lives in Bengal, including 1,449 in Calcutta - had changed the way people think and act. According to the state health department, 85.9 per cent of those who died after testing positive for the disease had comorbidities, a fact that serves as a pointer to the importance of such a survey. “The change in Calcuttans’ thinking on public health matters reveals how deep an impact Covid has created and the fear it has instilled in our minds,” said a public health expert. The comorbidity surveillance programme, which started on September 7, targets to cover 10 lakh households across the 144 wards of the Calcutta Municipal Corporation (CMC). A form is being handed over to residents which asks whether a person is above 60 or has conditions like diabetes, hypertension, cardiac ailments, kidney ailment, liver disease, cancer, respiratory problems and tuberculosis. The state health department, CMC and Covid Care Network (a voluntary organisation comprising health officials, doctors and those who have recovered from Covid) are jointly conducting the survey. The CMC has deployed 2,880 workers to collect data from residents. There are 288 supervisors, one for 10 data collectors. The target is to complete the survey in 14 days. Several CMC workers taking part in the survey said they were observing a change in people’s behaviour. “Many would not allow us to enter their premises to find out whether fresh water had accumulated, where dengue mosquitoes breed. We face such problems in highrises and housing complexes... our workers were shooed away from the gates,” said a data collector who did not want to be named. “For the comorbidity survey, we have not yet faced any such problem. Most people are interested to know what this survey is about. Once convinced about it’s need, they are giving all details,” he said. Abhijit Chowdhury, a public health expert and member of the chief minister’s expert team on Covid, had visited several houses in Tollygunge and Kalighat a couple of days ago with data collectors. “In Tollygunge, we went to a house where a middle-aged man came out and asked why we were there. The man listened patiently to the volunteers. Then he asked how a person would benefit from the survey,” Chowdhury recounted. “When he was told that those with comorbidities could get priorities when vaccines for Covid-19 are available, he said there was a person in his family with diabetes.” The experience was the same in Kalighat, too. “I asked the volunteers whether they were facing the resistance they used to face while taking part in dengue prevention programmes. They said there was hardly any resistance. At places where they are not allowed inside, the forms are being distributed through security personnel,” said Chowdhury, who is also the mentor of Covid Care Network. “The volunteers told me that more than 80 to 90 per cent households are actively taking part in the survey. People are getting tuned to the need of the hour and the change is for the better.” When the authorities were planning the comorbidity survey, there were apprehensions about how residents of housing complexes and other pockets would react. Officials had also thought that the fear of catching Covid would make volunteers and health workers reluctant to visit houses. But at least till Friday, officials said, the enthusiasm among volunteers and health workers was high. “Through this challenging period of four or five months, people’s psyche has matured. They are now welcoming surveyors without any inhibitions,” said Subrata Roy Chowdhury, officer on special duty, health, and deputy chief municipal health officer of the CMC. He is the nodal officer for the programme. He said that unlike dengue or pulse polio, no campaign had been launched for the comorbidity survey. “Despite that, the response is good. People have come to understand that if the comorbidity issue can be addressed, the risk of a Covid patient can be reduced,” he said. A resident of south Calcutta welcomed the way the comorbidity survey was being conducted but had one complaint: the form was only in Bengali. Officials said forms in Hindi and English would soon be distributed.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-309
12-09-2020||Calcutta||He who found God in all things||Swami Agnivesh, who was hospitalised due to liver cirrhosis at the Institute of Liver and Billary Sciences (ILBS) in Delhi, passed away on Friday evening. I had spoken to him on Tuesday. The 80-year-old former professor of St Xavier’s College (1963-69) and friend of St. Xavier’s University, Calcutta, and a social activist was an advocate for dialogue between religions. He was involved in various areas of social activism, including campaigns against female feticide and the emancipation of women. He was a prominent associate of Anna Hazare during the India Against Corruption campaign in 2011 to implement the Jan Lokpal Bill. Swami Agnivesh was truly “a man for others”…. A sanyasi in the Arya Samaj order, he stood tall, both on the national and international stage, as an educationist, a philanthropist, a philosopher, a spiritualist, most of all as a humanist. The sublime words of Saint Ignatius of Loyola, founder of the Jesuit Order, applies to him perfectly… “He was contemplative in action, finding God in all things”. And also important to me, Swamiji and I were close associates and friends. I met Swami Agnivesh 34 years ago in Delhi, although I had heard of him three years prior to that, while I was a lecturer at St Xavier’s College. He was known for his revolutionary ideas, oratory skills and the bold stand he often took for the liberation of the disadvantaged people. A 14-year-old Sri Lankan girl had been arrested for unlawfully entering India. She was housed in Tihar jail in 1987. My Sri Lankan friends had requested my help for the child. I met Swami Agnivesh seeking his guidance and advice. Both Swamiji and I were at the court when the case came up, we modestly sat in the last row. When the judge entered, he happened to notice Swamiji and questioned his presence. Swamiji explained the context and that he hoped for the smooth release of the minor. Since then our friendship blossomed. We worked on several issues, social and religious. Thereafter I often invited him to visit Xavier institutions, be it the Jesuit College of theology in Delhi, Vidyajothi, St Xavier’s College or St Xavier’s University, Kolkata. He also figures amongst one of the most notable and prominent former faculty members of St Xavier’s College. Vepa Syam Rao was born into a Brahmin Telegu family. He completed his Masters from Calcutta University. He taught at St Xavier’s College from 1963 to 1969. At 24, young Rao was inquisitive and curious to know the inner workings of the Belgian Jesuits. One day he sneaked into the Jesuit residence known as cloister and peeped in. The austerity and simplicity of the Jesuit living quarters astounded him... only a table, two chairs, a bed and a wooden almirah. It was unbelievable…. “The Jesuits lived a life of high thinking and simple living,” this made a deep impact on him. While coming out of the Jesuit cloister, Rao met a senior Belgian Jesuit in the corridor. He asked the priest as to what had motivated him to come to the distant shores of India leaving behind his home and the comforts he had had there. The Jesuit answered him: “I am here like my fellow Jesuit Fathers. Our mission is to serve the people of India, particularly of Bengal, mainly to impart quality education to Indian students; this is the humble contribution we hope to make.” Swamiji was deeply impressed and he has often reiterated that this response by the Jesuit priest had an influence on his future life and missionary zeal. He said: “It made me ponder. What is MY mission for India?” Swamiji has always stressed his strong faith in spirituality. He insists that spirituality ought to be social spirituality. This spirituality should not be an individualistic or escapist type. He insists that it should be one that would keep the interest of the society intact; which would depend on the respect for individual interest. These are inextricably linked. They are complimentary… religion must be a thrust for social awakening and revolution. Swamji has written a number of books on this subject to promote and share his views and ideas. He was a bridge between religions, respecting the differences.... “Do unto others as you would have others do unto you,” was his golden rule. He further advocated, if we want life, let us give life to others; if we want opportunities, let us provide these opportunities to others. God’s love is the same for all, no matter what one’s religion or nationality is. He was against the throwaway culture, where people not only throw junk but also the poor, the refugees and the downtrodden. He promoted through his work an education in fraternity for real solidarity. This in fact was the essence of Swamiji’s conviction and work. Swamiji was termed an anti-national, Christian sympathiser. It is forgotten that he believes the world is one family: “Vasudhaiva Kutumbakam”. God enjoins us to stay united as one family. Swamiji was a messenger of God. He was a giant among men. India is blessed to have him. He was a relentless fighter for the downtrodden, not caring for personal attacks or even results… just fight till something positive emerges was his firm belief. As Shakespeare said, reiterated by Justice V.R Krishna Iyer: “What a piece of work is a man, how noble in reason, how infinite in faculty, in form and moving how express and admirable, in action how like an angel, in apprehension how like a god, never at rest but ever in meditative communication with God.” Swamiji was diamond hard in his convictions, honeybee in his sweet collectivism for all suffering humans, a defender of the Constitution and a humanist, aware of the religious pluralism of Bharat. Anything that might destroy the fabric of this country or threaten its development was the recipient of his ire. Swami Agnivesh was indeed a man among men…. A prophet for all seasons on the side of truth and justice with a deep-seated spiritual perspective. A true inspiration. A Karma Yogi. Champion of the socially challenged... A true Arya Samaji. Fr. J. Felix Raj is the vice-chancellor of St Xavier’s University, Calcutta||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-309
12-09-2020||Calcutta||Pocket phone leads cops to body||A 30-year-old man reported missing for more than a day from his Chetla home was found buried on the premises of an abandoned building in New Alipore on Friday evening. Police tracked him through his phone, which was left switched on in his pocket. One of his neighbours, Dipak Das, has been arrested on the charge of murder. Bipul Dutta, a resident of Chetla Road, had left his home around 8am on Thursday. His family lodged a missing diary with New Alipore police station on Friday around 11am. Cops tracked the phone’s location to an abandoned two-storey building in New Alipore’s Block O. The soil appeared loose at a particular place and a spade was lying nearby. “A sniffer dog headed straight for the spot. The place was dug up and Dutta’s body found around 6.45pm on Friday,” an officer of New Alipore police station said. Das, 47, the building’s caretaker and a resident of Chetla Road, has been arrested on charges of murder. “He has confessed to the crime. They were drinking when both picked a fight and Das hit him with a spade. When he died, he was buried,” the officer said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-309
12-09-2020||Calcutta||Durga reaches home, 40 days before schedule||The goddess Durga has arrived in a house near Entally, 40 days before she steps into pandals or thakurdalans, while organisers wait for the government’s instructions on Durga Puja. The Das family in Seal Lane follows the longest of the seven prescribed periods of worship, starting on the ninth day of the new moon fortnight before Devipaksha or the divine full moon fortnight. And this year, because of the mala mash (a lunar month with two new moons when no auspicious rituals can take place) the gap with the schedule followed by most pujas has got even bigger. This year, because of the pandemic and the lockdown, attendance was thin on Day 1 of the puja. “None of our relatives could come. Because of the situation, we have not pressured them to come, too,” said Prosenjit Das, who does the puja himself since the inception in 2008. Two priests, in masks and sitting apart, are assisting him. They are the only outsiders allowed. The family has taken other precautions, too. “We are offering only whole fruits as naibedya. The duration of the daily rituals will be shortened. The surfaces are being periodically sanitised. Nor will bhog be offered to 200-300 people as is our custom on Mahanavami,” said Das. They are unsure of calling a dhaki. “Usually we have one on duty from Panchami. But we may have to make do with a digital recording this year,” he said. During the mala mash from September 18 to October 18, only nitya puja, done for any household deity, will take place. “As puja will be such a long-drawn affair this year, we had to start preparing a lot in advance,” Prosenjit ’s wife Reema said. Though relatives, including Prosenjit’s sister Moumita who had trained with him on conducting the rituals, could not attend, Das has found an assistant in his six-year-old son Ayush who has insisted on getting his own mini set of conchshell, bell, koshakushi and chamor, and is ready to imitate every move of his father during arati, clad in his little dhoti. “No pandemic can dent his enthusiasm. He says he is a brave boy who does not fear the coronavirus demon,” Reema laughed.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-309
12-09-2020||Calcutta||Parkomat repairs for full use||Parkomat, a multi-storey car park at the intersection of Rawdon Street and Park Street, will undergo repairs to make it fully operational. Half the capacity of the facility has been lying unused for years, while cars found it difficult to get a parking space on and around Park Street. Officials of the Calcutta Municipal Corporation (CMC), which manages the car park, said a company had been hired to repair the faults in the hydraulic system in the third and half of the second tier of the three-tier facility. The repairs will allow about 70 more cars to be parked at Parkomat, said an official. Parkomat can accommodate 165 cars but it has been operating at half its capacity for years. A fully functional Parkomat will benefit many people who drive to their offices located on Park Street or some of the roads running perpendicular to it and have to struggle every day to find a parking spot. The CMC official said he had received many letters from such people who spoke about difficulties they faced in parking their cars. “Once all slots are functional, patients and their families visiting Bhagirathi Neotia Women and Child Care Centre will find it easier to parktheir cars. Now they have a harrowing time scouting for space,” said a traffic police officer. “We have selected a company to do the repairs. The repairs will be completed within a month after they start. We are waiting for funds to be allotted for the repairs before we ask the company to start work,” said a CMC official. The tender for the repair project was floated before the pandemic struck in India. Since April, no work could be done. Recently, there has again been some progress and the CMC officials hope repairs will start soon. “The pandemic will end one day. We want to make the facility fully operational before things become normal again, which is why we are pushing ahead with the project,” an official said. “In the pre-pandemic period, many cars would park along the sides of Rawdon Street, especially near Bhagirathi Neotia hospital. The cars mostly belonged to patients visiting the hospital. Many of them were pregnant women and babies. The cars would eat up the road space at the junction of Rawdon Street and Park Street. If the capacity of the Parkomat is increased, the road will hopefully be free,” said a police officer. The Parkomat was built as a joint venture between the CMC and Simplex Infrastructures Limited. It began operation in 2000. An official of Simpark Infrastructure, a group company of Simplex that ran Parkomat, said that even when the hydraulic system was fully operational, the upper tiers remained empty mostly. “Cars used to park along the roads and police did not force them to enter Parkomat,” he said. The parking charges at Parkomat are higher than what one has to pay to park a car on a road. The Parkomat rates for four-wheelers and two-wheelers are Rs 35 and Rs 11 an hour, respectively. The corresponding rates for road parking are Rs 10 and Rs 5. According to the CMC’s website, owners of four-wheelers can book monthly parking slots at Parkomat for Rs 3,450 (24 hours daily), Rs 2,300 (12 hours during day time) and Rs 1,725 (12 hours at night). Another hydraulic parking facility in the city, outside New Market, has been functioning at around half its capacity for years. The facility can accommodate over 200 cars but now has slots for only 100-odd cars.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-310
12-09-2020||Calcutta||1400 tonnes of Bangladesh Hilsa for Bengal||Bangladesh will export more than 1,400 tonnes of Hilsa to Bengal, the largest consignment in recent times, according to several fish exporters in Dhaka. The Bangladesh government’s permission to Hilsa exporters (order dated September 10, 2020) says the allowance is for Durga Puja and will remain valid till October 10. The fish, packed in styrofoam boxes, will start reaching Calcutta from next week and will be delivered in phases by trucks crossing over the Petrapole border outpost near Bongaon in North 24-Parganas. “Last year, the Bangladesh government had sent 500 tonnes of Hilsa as a goodwill gesture to Bengal ahead of Durga Puja. This time the volume is nearly three times that,” Syed Anwar Maqsood, secretary of the West Bengal Fish Importers’ Association. “Apart from markets in Calcutta, Howrah and adjoining areas, we will distribute this Hilsa to the wholesale fish markets in North Bengal as well.” “This has been a good season for the Padma Hilsa in Bangladesh,” Kazi Abdul Manna, director of Seven Star Fish Processing Limited in Bangladesh, told Metro from Pabna. “The government has allowed nine fish merchants to export Hilsa this time against one last year. The size of the fish will vary between 900g and 1.2kg. We hope you enjoy the taste.” Despite a flicker of hope, this year has been somewhat frustrating for fishermen in parts of Patharpratima, Kultali, and Frasergunge in South 24-Parganas and in Digha and Sankarpur in East Midnapore who have been venturing into the seas for their catch of Hilsa. “Fishermen couldn’t venture into the seas like previous years because of inclement weather and the lockdown,” Chandranath Sinha, the state fisheries minister, said. The production of Hilsa in Bengal has dwindled from around 80,000 tonnes in 2001 to close to 15,000 tonnes in 2013 to around 10,000 tonnes in 2017 largely because of excess fishing in the Bay of Bengal. The Bengal government has now banned the catching of Hilsa between April 15 and June 14, the breeding season of the fish. Bangladesh, in comparison, has been able to check the declining Hilsa population by banning fishing during the breeding period and establishing sanctuaries for the fish.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-310
12-09-2020||Calcutta||IIM Calcutta teachers oppose bringing students to the campus||As many as 61 teachers of IIM Calcutta have written to the institute’s board of governors wondering whether it was prudent to call students of the MBA executive programme to the campus amid the Covid pandemic. The 61 teachers — the Joka B-school’s current faculty strength is 82 — have expressed the fear that the students’ journey to and presence on the campus could trigger grave health consequences and alleged that they had not been consulted on the matter. The letter — on behalf of IIM Calcutta Faculty Forum and addressed to the chairman of the institute’s board, Shri-krishna Kulkarni — have cited examples of Covid cases on the campuses of IIM Ahmedabad and IIT Kharagpur. IIM Calcutta had on September 8 announced that it would call 62 students of the one-year residential MBA executive programme to the campus so they could use the Internet network there and attend online classes without disruption. The students have been attending online classes from home since April. The letter to Kulkarni says: “You would be aware that recently IIT Kharagpur had to decide to vacate its hostels due to continuing spread of COVID-19. According to recent news reports, a student of the PGPX programme at IIM Ahmedabad who had been allowed to come into campus has tested positive for COVID-19. News like this has caused considerable anxiety to different stakeholders — campus residents, other faculty and staff who regularly visit campus for official work — who would be impacted by this decision.” Raising questions about the absence of consultations on the matter, the teachers ask: “What steps did our institute take to ensure that stakeholders were consulted before taking this decision with potentially grave consequences for their health and safety?” Metro contacted Kulkarni but he said he could not talk because he was busy at a meeting. He did not respond to text messages. Repeated calls to director Anju Seth went unanswered. She, too, did not respond to text messages from this newspaper. The IIM authorities had said on September 8: “Following the recent central and state government advisories and regulatory guidelines, the students will arrive on the campus in small batches to undertake quarantine in the campus hostel, while still attending classes online.” The Unlock 4 guidelines issued by the home ministry on August 29 said the higher education institutions could reopen for research scholars and postgraduate students of technical and professional programmes requiring laboratory/experimental work. “These will be permitted by the department of higher education in consultation with the ministry, based on the assessment of the situation, and keeping in view of the incidence of Covid-19 in the states/Union Territories,” says the guideline. The IIM teachers have asked whether the decision to call the students to the campus was in accordance with the guidelines.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-310
12-09-2020||Calcutta||First woman OC in Calcutta police dead in road crash||The first woman officer in Calcutta police who became a police station chief in the city died in a road accident on Durgapur Expressway, in Hooghly district, early on Friday. Debasree Chatterjee, 49, who was posted as the commandant, 12th battalion of the state armed police, her guard Tapas Burman and driver Manoj Saha were declared dead at the Hooghly Imambara Sadar Hospital. Chatterjee, whose office was in north Bengal, was returning home to Calcutta when the accident occurred around 6.25am, sources close to her said. The Mahindra Scorpio in which she was travelling rammed into the rear of a stationary truck at Dadpur, around 70km from the heart of Calcutta. Preliminary investigations by the Hooghly Rural Police suggest that the vehicle was travelling at a high speed and a possible reason for the accident was that the driver had dozed off. Chief minister Mamata Banerjee tweeted: “Deeply grieved to hear about the demise of Debasree Chatterjee, CO 12th Bn in an unfortunate road accident on Durgapur Expressway… My condolences to the family of the deceased.” A senior police officer said the cause of the accident could only be ascertained after the vehicle was subjected to mechanical and forensic examinations. The tests will rev- eal whether the vehicle had any snag that led to the accident. The mangled remains of the Scorpio had to be separated from the truck with a Wrecker before the three bodies could be extracted. Chatterjee was sitting in the middle seat, while her guard was sitting next to the driver. Chatterjee, who earlier served as an assistant commissioner and a deputy commissioner (women) in the Calcutta police, was the first woman in the force to have been assigned the responsibility to lead a police station, a job usually handled by men. A graduate in geography, Chatterjee had joined the city police force in 1988. She started her career as a sub-inspector in the women’s grievance cell at Lalbazar. She worked at Park Street, Ekbalpore and Hare Street police stations before joining the cyber wing at Lalbazar. She later became the chief of the immoral trafficking wing of the detective department. In 2010, Chatterjee became the first woman in Calcutta police to be appointed the officer in charge of a police station - North Port. Mother of one, Chatterjee was known for her “never say die” attitude and her efficiency.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-310
12-09-2020||Calcutta||Gym trainer held for threat call to Shiv Sena MP  Sanjay Raut||A man in his early 50s who works as a gym instructor in Tollygunge was arrested by Mumbai police on Thursday night for allegedly making a threat call to Shiv Sena MP Sanjay Raut using a Dubai-registered SIM card. Palash Bose, a resident of Russa Road, who is said to have identified himself as a fan of Bollywood actress Kangana Ranaut to the MP, has been booked under Section 505 of the Indian Penal Code, which deals with the offence of incitement of any class or community of persons to commit any offence against any other class or community, and the Criminal Law Amendment Act. If convicted, Bose can be imprisoned for up to three years. The arrest comes in the middle of a tussle between Kangana and the Maharashtra administration, during which she has allegedly foul-mouthed Mumbai and the city’s civic body demolished a portion of her bungalow citing “illegal alterations”. According to the details shared with Calcutta police, Bose had allegedly tried to call Raut thrice using a Dubai-registered SIM card between September 2 and 8 but could connect with the MP only once. “Bose had allegedly told the MP to stop poking his nose in the Sushant Singh Rajput matter and stop disturbing Kangana Ranaut. He had also claimed that he was calling on behalf of Dawood Ibrahim,” said an officer of Calcutta police. The city police ran a check and came to know that Bose had worked in Dubai as a gym instructor for 18 years before returning to Calcutta in 2018. Currently, he is working at a gym in Tollygunge. Bose was produced at Alipore court on Friday and Mumbai police were given his transit remand for four days. Anirban Guha Thakurta, one of the two lawyers appearing for Bose, said: “How could Mumbai police conclude (that Bose had made the calls) without any forensic tests and reports on the IP address from where the Internet calls were made?” The police said three SIM cards, including two registered in Dubai, have been seized from Bose.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-310
