13-09-2020||Calcutta||Plea for full-time park reopening||The Calcutta Municipal Corporation has sought the Bengal home department’s permission to reopen the city’s parks for their full duration. Firhad Hakim, the chairperson of the corporation’s board of administrators, said on Saturday that the civic body had sought the permission of the state government’s home department for the reopening. The government will reply by Monday or Tuesday, Hakim said, adding that as sporting activities have been allowed in Unlock 4, unimpeded reopening of the parks should be facilitated. The Calcutta Municipal Corporation (CMC) maintains 700 parks, said an official of the civic body. A few other parks such as Rabindra Sarobar at Golpark-Dhakuria and Subhas Sarobar at Kada-para off EM Bypass are maintained by the Calcutta Metropolitan Development Authority (CMDA), which too is helmed by Hakim. If permission is granted, the CMDA-run parks will also reopen. “I have asked the state home department to do something about the parks in our city. Now that sporting activities are being allowed gradually, we have asked for permission to reopen the parks. We cannot reopen them till the home department gives us permission,” Hakim said. “They will take some decision by Monday or Tuesday.” CMC officials said that all parks now remain open only from 6am to 9am every day for morning walkers. Nobody is allowed inside beyond the stipulated hours and no sporting activities are allowed. If the home department grants permission, the parks can remain open for the full duration, welcoming visitors during the afternoon and evening too, the CMC official said. The Unlock 4 guidelines issued by the Union home ministry on August 29 has allowed sporting activities from September 21 but fixed an upper limit of 100 persons at each such gathering. “Social/academic/sports/entertainment/cultural/religious/political functions and other congregations with a ceiling of 100 persons will be permitted with effectfrom 21st September 2020 with mandatory wearing of face masks, social distancing, provision for thermal screening and hand wash or sanitiser,” the guidelines said. The withdrawal of restrictions does not apply to entertainment parks.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-308
13-09-2020||Calcutta||6 executive MBA students at IIM today||Students of IIM Calcutta’s executive MBA course who have been called to the campus to use the institute’s Net facility for online classes will start arriving from Sunday, an institute official said. In the first batch, six students will reach the campus in Joka. They will attend online classes while they are in quarantine in the hostels for 14 days. “Of the 62 students, 55 will reach the campus in four batches as part of a staggered entry during the pandemic. The remaining seven are still to decide on reaching the campus,” the official said. On Friday, 61 of the institute’s 82 teachers wrote to the board of governors wondering if it was prudent to call students to the campus during the pandemic. They are worried that the students’ presence on the campus could pose “grave health risks”. They have said the institute hadn’t consulted them on the matter. The institute has prepared a campus entry protocol, including mandatory testing and quarantine, for the safety of students, another official said. According to the protocol shared with the students, they will undergo thermal scanning to measure their body temperature, a health check-up and their luggage would be sanitised. After completing the necessary formalities students will be allowed entry to their rooms. No Family member (parents/ spouse/children) will be allowed with the students on the campus, the official said. During the quarantine period, food will be served on the room’s doorstep by members of the mess operator’s staff. “Students will undergo regular health check-ups by a medical team of the institute. All students have to undergo a mandatory Covid test, in consultation with the team, within seven days of their arrival,” according to the protocol. “In case they have already undergone the test, they have to submit a copy of the report to the medical officer and hostel administration within 15 days.” Students will not be allowed to venture out of their rooms except for using certain utilities and specific essential purpose, including medical requirements. Students will be fined Rs 200 if they are found outside their rooms without a mask. Second-year students of the two-year MBA course have demanded that they be allowed on the campus to use the institute’s Net facility for unhindered online classes. “There are 462 students. If they start arriving in batches on the same ground, this would mean assembly on the campus. Unlike IIM Bangalore, the hostels of the MBA executive and the two-year MBA courses are on the campus at IIM Calcutta,” a teacher said. Metro’s text messages to institute director Anju Seth asking her if students of the two-year MBA course would be allowed on the campus went unanswered. Calls to her phone, too, went unanswered.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-308
13-09-2020||Calcutta||Domestic help arrested for theft||Police on Saturday arrested a domestic help, Rakhi Biswas, for stealing ornaments from a house where she worked in Sree Pally, Regent Park. Ornaments — two bangles, two earrings, three gold rings and two chains — worth several lakhs were seized from her, the police said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-308
13-09-2020||Calcutta||Vandals storm David Hare college||Vandals scaled the wall of the West Bengal University of Teachers’ Training, Education, Planning and Administration’s David Hare campus on Ballygunge Circular Road on Friday night and damaged the server room, the auditorium and the music room. Several AC units have been destroyed and electrical wires snapped. Those who carried out the destruction had entered the teacher education department head’s room and damaged furniture, police said. People still refer to the institute by its earlier name, David Hare Training College. Cops have started investigating the matter based on a complaint filed by the university officials at Ballygunge police station. The police are scanning CCTV footage to find out if the vandals had entered the four-storey building from the rear or the front. The hostel on the campus is almost empty barring a few people from other states who have not been able to leave, the police said. “It is a disgrace that an institution that bears the name of David Hare has been vandalised,” Sonia Chattopadhyay, a teacher at the institution, said. Some police officers said the trigger could be a campaign that has been gathering momentum on social media protesting the university’s decision to hold fourth semester exams for BEd and MEd at “home centres” during the pandemic. The first exam for BEd students is scheduled for October 1 and for MEd on October 6. On September 8, the university had issued a notice with the schedule for the exams. Amit Kumar Bhattacharjee, the university’s controller of examinations, had said in the notice that exams would be conducted at home centres. Some students felt they would have to physically turn up at colleges for the exams. The next day, the university issued another notice clarifying students could take the exams from their homes, online. The notice said there was no question of holding exams on the campus and termed the allegation that it had not kept in mind the pandemic “completely false”. “We will talk to several students to find out if this was an orchestrated attack,” an officer of Ballygunge police station said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-308
13-09-2020||Calcutta||Rescued, now on oxygen support||A 43-year-old man who had been found wandering in Salt Lake after he tested positive for Covid and was taken to a safe house in Barasat on Friday was put on oxygen support on Saturday, his brother said. “He has high fever and breathlessness. The doctor who checked on him decided to put him on oxygen support. He told us that my brother is extremely weak,” the brother said. The man, who lost his job of a parking attendant during the lockdown, had been without food for the past couple of days. He had survived on a loaf of bread and a laddu he bought from a tea stall near the place where he was found lying under the elevated Metro corridor in Duttabad, his brother said. “The man is quite weak and he had complained of difficulty in breathing. His oxygen levels are below normal and we have put him on oxygen support,” a doctor at the safe house said. The man had wandered in Salt Lake for three days before he was found under the elevated Metro corridor on Friday. He was afraid to go home because of his elderly parents. He has said that he hadn’t received any call or instruction on what to do from the authorities. He was taken to the safe house after some Duttabad residents alerted the fire and emergency services minister, Sujit Bose, and local councillor Nirmal Dutta. They got him transported to the facility in a government ambulance.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-308
13-09-2020||Calcutta||Elephant calf drowns in West Midnapore, herd turns back||An elephant calf drowned in a river in West Midnapore in the early hours of Saturday, forest officials said. The calf, less than a month old, was part of a herd that was crossing the Tamal, a river south of Goaltore town in West Midnapore, around 200km from Calcutta. The drowning is being attributed to a surge in the water level in the river because of the monsoon. “We received an alert around 2.30am. The carcass of the calf was found further downstream. Prima facie, it seems the calf was washed away by the strong currents and died of drowning. The body has been sent for post-mortem,” said the divisional forest officer of Rupnarayan division. A local forest official said the incident was “unusual and unfortunate”. “Elephants are expert swimmers and adult females in a herd are very careful with calves. They keep a close eye on the little ones. While crossing a river, the calves lean on the rear of an adult female or her trunk for support. The river in question is hardly 40 metres wide. Even with strong currents, it is unusual that an elephant calf will get washed away,” said the official. A conservation ecologist who has researched on elephants said a calf drowning or being washed away is not new. “Calves get better at swimming as they grow up. In north Bengal, the forest department has in the past rescued calves that were washed away by river currents. One such calf was named Teesta, after the river in which it was lost and found. Teesta is now a full-grown elephant,” said Aritra Kshettry, a research fellow with the Union ministry of science and technology, who is working in north Bengal now. The herd that the calf was a part of has over 20 elephants, said local forest officials. The herd had been camping at Kadamdiha forest in Goaltore range for the past couple of days. The herd split into two groups on Friday. A forest official said the first group started heading north towards the Nayabasat forest in Hoomgarh range on Friday evening. The group crossed the same river without trouble. “The calf was part of the second group which took the same route. But after the calf was washed away, the group did not cross the river and came back to Kadamdiha forest. They stayed there for the rest of the night,” the official added. Herds of elephants from Dalma enter the forests of Jhargram, Purulia, Bankura and West Midnapore in south Bengal every year and spend several months before heading back to Jharkhand. The forests of south Bengal are interspersed with human settlements and farmlands that provide easy sources of food for the pachyderms. Some herds make south Bengal forests their home and do not go back to Jharkhand.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-308
13-09-2020||Calcutta||Department in CU set for online invigilation||Final-year postgraduate students of microbiology department of Calcutta University will be monitored through online invigilation by teachers during the fourth semester examinations to be held next month. The students will have to keep the video cameras on in devices like smartphones, laptops or desktops at the time of taking the test, a teacher of the department said. One or two teachers will be on duty on all the examination days who will invigilate the examinees through an online process, the teacher said. The examinations will be conducted using a virtual platform like Zoom or Google Meet and the students will have to log in and out according to the time to be prescribed by the university. A mock test will be held soon to ensure that students get used to the system and they do not face any problem when they take the exams. The final (fourth) semester examinations will be conducted by all the 68 postgraduate departments of the university in October. No other department has taken the decision on invigilating the examinees online till now, an official of the university said. The university had recently announced that the individual departments would send the questions through emails or WhatsApp to the examinees half an hour before the start of the examination. After the exam, the students will have to upload the answers in PDF format through emails or WhatsApp. But the individual postgraduate departments enjoy the autonomy to conduct their examinations using their own system, the official said. The board of studies of the microbiology department of the university has taken the decision on online invigilation not because it does not trust the students, the teacher said. The main intention is to maintain the “sanctity” of the examinations, the teacher explained. “The decision has been taken to ensure that our students do not suffer in future.” The university had no experience of teaching students through the online process when it started doing so after institutions had to be shut because of Covid-19 in March, said Alok Sil, the head of the department of microbiology . “We are conducting the online classes successfully. We are hopeful that we will also be successful in invigilating the students online,” he said. Postgraduate microbiology is taught also by at least two colleges, including Lady Brabourne. Shiuli Sarkar, principal of Lady Brabourne College, said she had received a letter from the microbiology department. “We are expecting detailed guidelines from the university,” Sarkar said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-308
13-09-2020||Calcutta||Phone cheat strikes again||A schoolteacher was coaxed into sharing her and her daughter’s banking details with a person who identified himself on the phone as an official of a nationalised bank’s Triangular Park branch where she has a savings account. The person called on Thursday and apparently said her account would be closed as her KYC documents weren’t updated and that the only way to prevent it before the total lockdown and the weekend was to share with him her debit card details. Once he got hold of the details, he carried out multiple online transactions and told her that he was transferring the money from her account to the bank’s e-wallet service, police said. After transferring close to Rs 40,000, the caller asked for the card details of other family members, complainant Debjani Biswas, 47, said. The resident of Panditiya Road in Ballygunge said the first call came on Thursday morning before the government called off the total lockdown on Saturday. “The caller knew I have an account in the Triangular Park branch; so I did not doubt him. He kept saying my account would be closed and that I would have to pay a penalty of Rs 4,000 as my KYC documents were invalid,” Biswas, who teaches in a Ballygunge school, said. “He said there was no way to update the documents in the next three days because of the two-day total lockdown and Sunday. He told me that he would do the needful if I shared my card details with him.” She told Metro on Saturday that every time the person made an online transaction, she received an OTP on her phone. She had shared the OTPs with the caller in good faith, thinking the money was being transferred to an e-wallet of her own account, she said. When she refused to share card details of other family members, the caller apparently told her that the entire money would be withdrawn from her account. When she still hesitated, the caller hung up only to call again the next morning. “This time, I was standing right near my mother when the call came. He kept insisting we would lose a lot of money if we did not add a nominee to my mother’s account and that he needed my card details to do that,” Biswas’s daughter Tiyasha, 20, said. “My mother had panicked… just to console her, I gave her my card from another bank. But before I could react she had shared my card details, along with the CVV (a 3-digit number printed on the signature panel on the back of the card). The person tried to carry out online transactions from my account, too. But luckily there was little money and the transactions were possibly declined.” The man spoke in Bengali and had full knowledge of Biswas’s account number. Realising the fraud, she and her daughter lodged a complaint with Rabindra Sarobar police station and then with the anti-bank fraud section at Lalbazar. Preliminary investigations showed the money had not been transferred to any e-wallet. It had been used for purchases on various online portals, the police said. Hundreds of people are cheated similarly on the phone every month. In June and July, the city police had received more than 1,700 such complaints, of which close to 1,600 had a connection with Jamtara in Jharkhand. In the case of Biswas, cops are still to ascertain where the call came from, the police said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-309
13-09-2020||Calcutta||Two siblings, two organs and new life||A man from Mizoram underwent two simultaneous organ transplants at a hospital in Calcutta, thanks to his two siblings who donated a kidney and liver. Lalrinngheta from Lunglawn, Lunglei, in Mizoram, about 170km from Aizawl, said he could not be thankful enough to his brother Lalrinpuia who donated his kidney and sister Laleinawmni who donated her liver to save his life. Lalrinngheta said he had diabetes for a long time and that he had visited Calcutta in December last year for treatment at RN Tagore International Institute of Cardiac Sciences at Mukundapur when doctors said he would need a kidney transplant. His brother Lalrinpuia, a schoolteacher, volunteered to donate his kidney. In February, Lalrinngheta was told by doctors his liver, too, was damaged and that he needed a transplant. Lalrinngheta, a government employee, said he had long been suffering from diabetes and that damaged his organs. “We got to know of our brother’s crisis and I decided to donate the kidney. Then when we got to know he needed a liver transplant, we did not know what to do,” Lalrinpuia, who donated a kidney, said on Saturday. “One of our two sisters, Laleinawmni, decided to donate a portion of her liver.” The surgery could not take place because of the lockdown and the brothers and sister and other family members have been staying at a rented apartment off the Bypass since December. On Thursday, Lalrinngheta underwent simultaneous liver and kidney transplants. Doctors said the brothers and the sister were stable. “I was suffering from diabetes for long and after doctors told me I needed kidney and liver transplants I thought I was not going to survive. But my brother and sister came forward and the only thing I can offer them is love,” Lalrinngheta said from his hospital bed on Saturday. “I cannot repay their debts.” “Our brother has two sons, aged seven and nine. He needed our help and we donated our organs,” Lalringpuia, the brother who donated the kidney, said. “We are a close knit family and this was our duty.” Doctors said the surgery was complicated. “When the liver transplant was taking place, it was an almost 12-hour surgery. During that time, the kidneys were not working. After the liver was transplanted into him, the kidney was put in place,” Sanjay Goja, senior consultant and programme director of liver transplant at RN Tagore hospital said. He is out of the ICU, Goja said. “It was an uphill task because the kidneys and the liver were not functioning. But we hope to discharge him in a week,” D.S. Ray, who headed the team that performed the kidney transplant, said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-309
13-09-2020||Calcutta||Jadavpur University readies phone-and-link plan for students to overcome digital divide||A Jadavpur University committee has decided that 110-odd students will be given smartphones and free Internet connectivity and around 300 more will be provided data packs to ensure that none misses out on digital education and exams, an official said on Saturday. The committee, having teachers and administrative officials, was formed on September 4 to “help students with digital devices and connectivity”. The members met on Thursday and decided to provide close to 500 students, selected through a survey that considered their economic condition and other hindrances, with phones and Net connectivity. The official, who is a member of the committee, said students have been selected from all three streams — science, arts and engineering. The smartphones are priced between Rs 5,000 and Rs 6,000 each. “Those who will require connectivity support have been asked to share the details of their network service provider. We will have their packs recharged from the university for three months as of now,” said Gour Krishna Pattanayak, the university’s finance officer and a member of the committee. Another JU official said the period of three months had been stipulated as of now because the new semester, scheduled to begin later this month, would be for that duration. If need be, the arrangement will be continued, he added. “Since the third week of August, a corpus of over Rs 16 lakh has been raised. It will not be difficult for us to continue providing support,” the official said. “But if a student does not have a smartphone or is hindered by poor connectivity in the absence of a data pack, they will not be able to take part in the distance digital mode education. That’s why the support is being provided,” said Partha Pratim Roy, the general secretary of the Jadavpur University Teachers’ Association and a member of the committee. Similar support will be provided to students who are to write the end-semester exams in arts and science that are scheduled to be held between October 1 and 10. JU vice-chancellor Suranjan Das had in the third week of August requested teachers and other employees to donate a day’s salary to help students overcome the digital divide. He had also appealed to alumni, guardians and anyone else who wishes to pitch in for the cause. The new semester for arts and science students through “distance digital mode” will start from September 14, while that of engineering from September 25. The official said a section was being created on the JU website where course materials and audios and videos of lectures would be uploaded. Teachers will share with the students the links of the files in Word or PDF format, audio notes and video recordings.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-309
13-09-2020||Calcutta||Traffic snarls return to haunt commuters||Traffic snarls have returned to Calcutta though schools and colleges are shut and many Calcuttans are still working from home. But those whose offices have reopened and who are commuting daily have told Metro how difficult their trips have become. Some of their complaints are: Pramit Sarkar, who travels from Tollygunge to his Poddar Court office daily, said he was getting “unusually late” on SP Mukherjee Road. The maximum congestion is near Hazra crossing between 11am and noon, he said. “At times it feels the traffic signals are not working… the signal seems to be stuck at red.” A professional said he was recently stuck in a traffic snarl on SP Mukherjee Road in the afternoon and by the time he reached the Exide crossing, vehicles were being diverted through the next crossing off Birla Planetarium. “Further ahead, my vehicle was diverted through the Air India crossing. All through I did not see any cop on the road,” he said. Debraj Chatterjee, who has been working from his Behala home, had stepped out earlier this week for an official assignment and could cross Durgapur Bridge to reach Alipore in 40 minutes in the afternoon, a journey that usually takes 15 minutes. Many people said they often got stuck on the Parama flyover no matter what time of the day. Some motorists wondered if the number of cars had gone up because people were reluctant to use public transport. Every time there is a jam, the police blame something or the other: a car that has broken down, a waterlogged pocket, or slow traffic because of rain, they said. Is there a larger problem because traffic jams are so widespread? There have been no reports of any signal malfunctioning, the police said. “The traffic signal cycle had been reduced considerably in the initial days of the lockdown. Now, it has been reversed to the normal timings,” a traffic police officer said. “Maybe commuters have got into the habit of waiting for short periods at traffic signals and now they are taking time to readjust.” Senior officers refuted the allegation that traffic cops were few on the roads during the pandemic. There are close to 3,000 traffic cops. They are assisted by 1,000 home guards and 2,000 civic volunteers, according to officers in Lalbazar. At least 37 traffic cops are in hospital after testing positive for the coronavirus and 15 are in home quarantine as on Thursday. Earlier, 216 traffic cops had tested positive for the virus; but they have recovered and resumed duty, the police said. Cops attributed the bumper-to-bumper jam on the Parama flyover to multiple vehicles breaking down on the flyover every day. Less than a week is left for Mahalaya. Every year during this time, traffic snarls are common as more and more people step out of their homes to shop. Vehicles are parked indiscriminately, pedestrians spill on to roads, there’s intermittent rain and waterlogging. But this year is different because of the pandemic. Buses are few and shoppers or pedestrians are almost negligible. So, motorists and two-wheeler riders are surprised to find traffic snarls. “Waterlogging on a small stretch on Central Avenue cannot be a reason for a 5km-long snarl… the tail of vehicles from MG Road reaching almost the Park Street flyover,” said a professional who was recently caught in a snarl on the Park Street flyover for 45 minutes on her way to office at Esplanade. “Unlike other years, there are no pedestrians who usually slow down the traffic. The volume of vehicles may have increased but that is why we have traffic cops.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-309
13-09-2020||Calcutta||Tricked onto a shaky rick||I cannot remember any more how the idea struck him, but one fine day he said — “You have to take a rickshaw ride when I am in town.” That was it. Thereafter, every once in a while, even in the middle of dead-serious conversations, he would just erupt with excitement and say — You have to... In retrospect I wonder why I didn’t ask that first moment — “Why rickshaw?” Perhaps I understood his thirst for a good spectacle. And in his mind, me on a hand-pulled rickshaw would be one. Yes, he wanted to be witness. It didn’t occur to me to tell him that in the small town where I grew up, a rickshaw was no novelty. Of course, those would be the cycle-rickshaws. I remember believing as a toddler that all one had to do was stand at the gate of my grandmother’s house after a rigorous bath and a generous smattering of talc and wave one’s hand and a rickshaw would appear from somewhere. Many of these cycle-rickshaws would ferry children to school. Some enterprising charioteers would add a wooden bench to the footboard to accommodate extra passengers. I recall a rickshawwala who wore a kanthi around his neck and called every little girl Pushpa and pretend to poke in the ribs. They called him katukutu buro or the tickle man. I found it disconcerting then, and disturbing even in retrospect. I remember the ride from Bandel station and how the rickshaw would clatter and tremble as it sped through the tunnel. As I clutched on to one side, I was sure when it ended I would find my teeth had come loose. I had several teeth missing for a long time and the prospect wasn’t thrilling. In any case, he came, he went, came and went back. I did not remember the rickshaw ride. He too forgot but accused me later. “Next time,” he threatened on FaceTime. I nodded demurely. I understood the feeling. When H was in kindergarten and myself in Class VII, I was possessed by this burning need to teach her indices. One evening, when the parents were away someplace, I made her forfeit her playtime and sit on a high chair with my O.P. Sinhal open in front of her. Did I actually think she who did not even know her numbers could begin to comprehend the rules of algebra? I don’t think so. It was about the moment with all its impossibilities that was so delectable. Did I imagine he would forget the rickshaw ride? No. I didn’t think about it all. My last address in the other city had required me to take a rickshaw ride twice a day for close to 10 years. Come to think of it, another tunnel, dark and skiddy. In the monsoons, water would come up to the footboard. Some months before I left town for good, they inaugurated a parallel smart-tunnel, complete with orange lights and a smart incline that would not allow water to accumulate. I knew then that my time there was up. Of course, there was no way he could know all this; if he did, perhaps he would understand my rickshaw-indifference. The moment arrived quietly, a normal in sheep’s clothing. He was visiting and had a few hours to spare. He proposed to spend them walking around the most crowded part of the city, before lunching at a pice hotel. When he achieved both, I should have known the cosmic forces were with him. With some time on his hands, he decided to walk more, stopped at nearly every bookshop in boi para, made an impromptu stop at Coffee House, darted out when he had had his fill of it and walked some more. It was all at such feverish pace that you would think all this were an illusion and were it not lived immediately and to the fullest it would all disappear in seconds. I was quite happy with my own pace when he suddenly hollered, “Rickshaw.” The merry band echoed, “Rickshaw.” The next thing I knew, a bargain had been struck and I was suddenly being foisted into one of those hand-pulled things I so dreaded for myself and for the carrier. It was not enough, there was also some photography happening on the side. I would have normally made some conversation with the puller, but that day I was much too acutely aware of my spectacle-hood. There he was feet firmly on the ground, pulling away, and there I was, looking above, inert, a mountain of embarrassment. When I disembarked just before we turned the corner at the Tropical School of Medicine, I felt not a little relieved. I could now just hop onto a yellow taxi and reach wherever I had to. I am not sure what made me turn around, but when I did, there was the depleted but still very merry band walking towards me. Without a pause or a breath lost he said, “Now you have to write about it,” and pushed ahead.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-309
