14-09-2020||Calcutta||A solo traveller around the world, on a bicycle||Lipika Biswas’s landing in Europe for the first time in July 2018 was with a thud. She was in Frankfurt where first the immigration officer would not believe that a woman from India was on a two-month cycling tour in Europe, alone. Then Biswas realised that no mechanic was free to help her re-assemble her bicycle, which she was lugging behind her packed in a box. But Biswas is not someone who gives up easily. Getting to Frankfurt had not been easy either. She calls herself a solo traveller. An Eastern Railways employee where she works as a senior clerk, Biswas, who turns 52 on Wednesday, had planned the Europe tour meticulously. She would bike from Germany to Iceland. With loans from friends and a very supportive family, she had managed to put together Rs 4.5 lakh for the trip, and had trained herself relentlessly, but had missed the bit about the re-assembling. In Frankfurt, she lost a day trying to get a mechanic to help her and several Euros, which would always and instantly be converted into rupees in her mind. “I paid Rs 3,500 as taxi fare in Frankfurt just to move to a new accommodation,” says Biswas, a resident of Kasba. The next day she got to work herself, going by instinct, and put together her bike, and set off for Mainz, when she also realised that she did not know how to use GPS. But the roads held her up, as she was borne by the kindness of strangers. Biswas had been a mountaineer from 1994, the year she joined the railways. She wanted to be an adventurer. She had grown up in Palta, on the outskirts of Calcutta, attending school there and college in Naihati. “I was a tomboy. I played daant-guli. No dolls for me,” says Biswas. She joined a local mountaineering club, Nababganj Mountain Lovers, and with them, as with others, “summited” several Himalayan mountain peaks. In 1995 she trekked up to Kalindi Pass, which connects Gangotri and Gastoli. Within a few years, she was a veteran. For two years, 2014 and 2015, she was part of an Everest expedition team, but on both occasions she had to return from the base camp as the expeditions were cancelled. She had always loved cycling. The last few years she has turned to these “magic wheels”. “I still wanted to go far,” she said. To be able to go up mountains that seem to be rising straight up is to conquer fear. “While going up I would think not again. Coming down I would want to return right then.” But she also wanted to go alone. It would help her to confront the final frontiers of fear. A doctor friend, her adviser, told her to try Europe. It would be “safe”. So there she was, on way to Mainz from Frankfurt, on a bicycle assembled by herself for the first time. In Mainz, she was told at a late hour that she would have to cross the Rheine to camp. Biswas would either be hosted by members of Warm Showers, an international free touring cyclists community, or stay at Airbnb places, or camp in her own tent wherever possible, even in someone’s garden, spending as little money as possible on food. But in Mainz, the couple told her she could stay the night at their place. This would be the first of the many homes that would be offered to her by strangers. “One of the best things about cycling is meeting people,” says Biswas. She made many friends in Europe. She did not face a single incident of racism, she feels. She felt appreciated, though she surprised many as an “Indian woman” out on such a tour. She rattles off the names of places she visited: Mainz, Cologne, Duisberg, to Arnhem, Amsterdam, Zalk (a village in the Netherlands), back to Germany, and Fehmarn, from where she entered Denmark. Then she visited Sweden and Norway. From Norway she reached Iceland from Faroe Islands by ferry. Reaching Iceland was an emotional moment. She biked through the country from Seyðisfjörður to Reykjavik, from where she took a flight to Calcutta via Copenhagen and Delhi. “On some days I cycled for 100 to 120km,”says Biswas. “My friend from Calcutta insisted that I go wild camping. So I stayed alone in the forest at Kronsjo the night before I entered Norway from Sweden.” She discovered the pleasure of railway waiting rooms. At Lunden, near Flam in Norway, she decided to spend the night at the tiny railway station just because it was so heart-stoppingly beautiful. She was the only one at the waiting room, surrounded by mountains and an immense solitude. She also made friends out of a few Indian ambassadors at the capitals. “Despite some problems, the tour went off quite well,” says Biswas, who was back in Calcutta after two months. Only to be back in another part of Europe the next year, same time, for two months. She took off from Vienna, biked through Budapest, Belgrade and Sofia to Istanbul, where she had a brainwave. She felt she must visit Greece. She went to the island of Lesbos, the home of Sappho, the greatly admired poet of ancient Greece who also gives her name to the Sapphic tradition. Biswas visited the island, but when she wanted to enter Turkey again, from where she would take the flight home, she realised that she had a one-entry visa. She spent a deeply anxious night with her passport taken away, after which she was finally granted another visa for Turkey. Last year in April, she had also gone on a bike tour of Sri Lanka, but with a friend. “And I will go again,” she says. And looks proudly at her three bikes – a folding bike, a mountain bike and a touring bike — which are all parked happily inside her bedroom at her small Kasba apartment. She wants Calcutta to be more cycle-friendly. The cycle is as good for our personal health as it is for our environment, not to mention women’s empowerment, she points out. During the pandemic many cycles are out in the streets. “But in Calcutta cyclists should also learn to follow traffic signals,” she insists.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-307
14-09-2020||Calcutta||Discharged after surgery, rescuer vows to fight on||Nilanjana Chatterjee, who was knocked down by a Honda City while trying to help a woman crying for help and suffered fractures in her left leg, was discharged from hospital on Sunday. Shortly before her discharge, she vowed to continue to stand up against atrocities on women even if it meant suffering the same fate and added that she had even told her daughter to walk with her backbone straight. “This physical pain will go away soon. But the love and care that I have found for whatever little I did — along with my family — will spur me to stand up and rise in protest if something similar plays out in front of me again,” Nilanjana told Metro before leaving Ruby General Hospital for her parent’s home in Anandapur. “I have even told my daughter the same — shirdnara soja korey cholbey (walk with your spine straight). People who get bullied tend to become a bully and the cycle continues,” she said. Nilanjana was returning home with her husband Deep Satpathi and their daughter around midnight on September 5 when she heard a woman crying for help from inside a speeding Honda City. This was near a deserted stretch of a road near Abhyudoy Housing Complex in Anandapur, off EM Bypass. Nilanjana, and her husband and daughter were returning home after attending a dinner on the occasion of her mother’s birthday. As Deep pulled over and forced the Honda City to come to a halt, a woman was thrown out of the vehicle. Injured in her arms, she was shivering in fear. The man at the wheel of the Honda City, identified as Abhishek Kumar Panda, took a U-turn and fled and mounted the left front wheel over Nilanjana’s left leg. Panda was arrested a few days later. The woman allegedly thrown off the car reportedly told the police that she and Panda were to get married. “Many people have been telling me that the victim had changed her statements before the police. I have realised that women have to bear a lot of pressure, from the family, society and even friends. But just because she was to get married to the man doesn't mean he would assault her," Nilanjana said. Doctors at the hospital said Nilanjana had responded well to the treatment. “She has been advised to try and walk a few steps every day at home. She will have to spare her injured leg for the time being and try putting her weight on the right leg,” said an official of the hospital. Nurses and other employees joined Nilanjana as she was taken out of her cabin. Some sang a Rabindra Sangeet. Nilanjana held up one of her hands with a clenched fist, her face glowing with a smile.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-307
14-09-2020||Calcutta||Young Metro: Debate on digital learning and online prize distribution||Sixteen students debated the pros and cons of digital learning at the 21st L.N. Birla Memorial Debate organised by Birla High School on July 11. The flagship event is held to mark the school’s Founder’s Day. This year’s motion — The Digital World Holds a Key to a Better Education System — had all the participants logged in from their homes as they debated the accessibility of the education system in the times of online classes. Best Speaker Kaushiki Ghosh also clinched the Best Team’s trophy for Shri Shikshayatan School with a resounding argument against the motion. According to her, in a country where most government-aided primary institutions run out of derelict and dingy buildings lacking basic infrastructure, digitisation is a luxury. “Education is not just about facts, figures, statistics and theorems, it is about shaping the personality too. Where do we learn our morals in this online world? Where is the experience-based learning?” said the feisty debater. It was Kaushiki’s first time at an online debate. According to principal Loveleen Saigal of Birla High School, Moira Street, not hosting the debate at all would have been a huge disappointment. “We were worried about technical glitches. We took a week to prepare. But we managed to ultimately host the event, though a truncated version, with maximum social distancing,” she said. Debater and a member of Calcutta Debating Circle S.V. Raman moderated the debate. BDM International School celebrated their annual prize distribution ceremony online. The achievers were felicitated with e-certificates and cash prizes. It included the highest scorers in individual subjects of both Class X and XII board examinations 2019-20. Rendition of the school song by students and lighting the lamp also took place. Every year, the event used to coincide with the school fest, giving it the shape of an annual jamboree. However, the motive behind this event that was to encourage children to push their boundaries so that they could come up with flying colours in future was fulfilled this time as well. “Although we could not celebrate prize distribution in the way we had done it in the past, the biggest gain for me was that we could see the satisfaction on the faces of the parents as well which eluded us before, as only the students came to collect the certificates on stage. Yes, we missed personal touches, but this new normal is not entirely negative as the silver lining of this pandemic is that we are getting acquainted with new technologies,” said principal Vijaya Chaudhuri.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-307
14-09-2020||Calcutta||Helpline for mental health||The Covid-19 pandemic has led to a steep rise in the number of people seeking help for mental health issues, speakers at the launch of the golden jubilee celebrations of Antara, a hospital for mental illnesses, said on Sunday. The hospital in Narendrapur, which started the celebrations through an online programme, launched a helpline to address the needs of the rising number of people with mental illness. An official said the number - 18001205589 - would remain open from 9am to 6pm, from Monday to Saturday. There are plans to run the helpline 24X7 after recruiting more counsellors. People of all age groups are suffering because of the pandemic. Adolescents who had no mental health issues before are showing signs of illness, a consequence of anxiety because of uncertainty over their studies amid the pandemic. Children are suffering because they are unable to meet their friends and do not like being indoors for months, said Indrani Chakraborty, the chief clinical psychologist of Antara. “A six-year-old girl I spoke with asked me why she could not meet her friends. She has become agitated for not being able to go out or meet friends. A five-year-old girl tried to kill herself by skipping ropes. She did not like the fact that she was staying at home with her elder sister while her parents were going out for work,” said Chakraborty. Another common problem, she said, is excessive fear among some people about contracting Covid-19, to the extent that they are not stepping out even to buy groceries. Antara started its journey from a building in Picnic Garden in 1971. Mathew P. John, the honorary general secretary of Antara, said the organisation was set up to treat mental health problems faced by people fleeing the erstwhile East Pakistan during the 1971 war. Mother Teresa had been the inspiration behind the setting up of the organisation. “Antara was set up to address mental health problems among refugees from East Pakistan and people wandering the streets of Calcutta. Gradually its scope expanded and now it is a 200-bed hospital with OPD and emergency treatment facilities,” Mathew told Metro. The hospital also runs a de-addiction facility and an indoor unit. Soumyo Chatterjee, the chief psychiatrist, said at the programme that many of the patients brought to the hospital by police even now were found loitering around. “They are kept here and treated. Some were able to tell us their home addresses after a couple of years. Our personnel went with them to reunite them with their families in Assam and Bangladesh,” he said. The management of Antara said they were open to any form of donation and sponsorship because they wanted to expand.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-307
14-09-2020||Calcutta||David Hare campus vandalism suspects held||Two men were arrested on Sunday in connection with the vandalism on the David Hare campus of the West Bengal University of Teachers’ Training, Education, Planning and Administration, on Ballygunge Circular Road, late on Friday. Biswajit Mondal and Meghnad Mondal, who were picked up from a slum behind the campus, have reportedly told the police that they had carried out the vandalism to steal copper wires. A huge amount of copper wires and other items were seized from them. “We are trying to find out whether the two were engaged by anyone. They said they entered the campus by scaling the wall from behind,” an officer of Ballygunge police station said. Some university officials suspect the vandalism was linked to a rumour among students that they would have to turn up in colleges to appear in the fourth-semester BEd and MEd exams. “There could be more to it than what meets the eye. If it were just for copper wires, why was the server room vandalised?” asked a professor.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-307
14-09-2020||Calcutta||IIT Kharagpur campus closure extended till September 18||IIT Kharagpur has extended the closure of the campus till September 18 as Covid-19 cases are still being reported on the campus. A notice signed by the institute's registrar, B.N. Singh, announced the extension of the closure, during which safety measures will be “strictly implemented”. The authorities had earlier announced that the campus would be closed for at least a week. The week since the closure began ended on Sunday, but the authorities decided to extend it as the spread of the coronavirus could not be contained entirely and contact tracing was on. With the closure having been extended, no employee of the institute will be permitted to leave the campus till further orders, except for emergency. Those who stay outside the campus are not allowed to enter. The employees who stay on the campus but are currently outside have been asked to stay where they are and work from there. “After a review of the situation, we felt that there was a need to extend the closure till September 18 as the chain of spread could not be broken entirely. Besides, the task of contact tracing is not over yet,” an official said. The OPD of BC Roy Technology Hospital on the campus, which remained closed till September 13, will operate with limited OPD/medicine renewal services only for campus residents. The hospital also caters to retired employees who stay outside the campus. Retired employees and even the serving ones who stay outside the campus are not allowed to visit the hospital and have been advised to buy medicines locally. If people from outside are let in, there can be a spurt in Covid cases because cases are on the rise around the campus,” said an official. The first positive case on the campus was recorded on August 19. The count shot up close to 30 by September 5, a surge that prompted the institute to take steps to break the chain of spread. Although cases are being reported, the rate of spread of the virus has slowed down. The drop in intensity has convinced the authorities to extend the closure. No domestic help and gardener will be allowed to enter the campus. All offices of the institute will remain closed, according to the notice issued by the registrar. “We need to urgently stop the spread of the virus on the campus because hospitals outside the campus are dealing with a rising number of cases in Kharagpur town and the rest of West Midnapore district and do not have adequate beds,” said an official of the institute. The dean of students affairs at the IIT, Somesh Kumar, had last week told the students that it was becoming increasingly difficult to find a bed for a Covid patient in hospitals in Calcutta. Among those infected, five are students. The IIT had on September 8 requested the 60-odd students still on the campus to leave at the earliest as it was “highly risky’’ to stay in hostels amid the Covid-19 pandemic considering the “stressed and insufficient medical facilities’’ in the town. Around 30 have since left for home.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-307
14-09-2020||Calcutta||Vacant plot selected to relocate shops and houses falling in the path of airport Metro line||A vacant plot in Sector V, behind the Technopolis building, has been selected to relocate more than 70 shops and houses that are in the path of the New Garia-airport Metro line in Mahishbathan, said a member of the committee set up to resolve the land issue. The houses and the shops are creating a hurdle in the construction of the pillars that will support the elevated corridor of the Metro link. The state government has formed a committee to facilitate removal of obstacles so land could be made available for the project. The committee is headed by Bidhannagar MLA Sujit Bose, who is also the state's fire and emergency services minister, and has representatives of Hidco, Nabadiganta Industrial Township Authority (NDITA), Bidhannagar Municipal Corporation, transport department and the Bidhannagar Police Commissionerate as members. Bose said they had identified the buildings that needed to be razed to make room for the Metro corridor. “We are planning to relocate the shopkeepers and residents to a vacant plot in Sector V, behind Technopolis. We have written to the urban development department, which owns the plot,” Bose said. "We have conducted a survey and asked the residents to cooperate. They will be transferred to temporary houses (to be set up on the plot behind Technopolis) till we can relocate them properly." Metro visited the area on Sunday afternoon and saw at least a dozen structures - some of which housing eateries, electrical fittings shops and shacks selling fritters — standing in the way of the proposed alignment. NDITA chairman Debashis Sen said the structures on the plot - in Sector V's AQ block, opposite Positional Astronomy Centre - would be of bricks and would have asbestos roofs. “These will be simple sheds that can be built in a short time. We have to get permission from the urban development department before we start building the sheds,” said Sen. The Bidhannagar Municipal Corporation had in 2018 demolished four buildings under the flyover that connects Sector V with New Town to make way for the Metro project. Construction of the 1.45-km viaduct between Mahishbathan and New Town had been stalled for six years since the project was commissioned because of these buildings. The demolition took place after the North 24-Parganas district administration issued notices saying the buildings would be pulled down and the owners compensated. Two of the razed buildings were private properties. One was Blue Orchid Hotel, identified in the civic records as the “White Building or OYO Hotels”. The other building housed multiple shops and warehouses and was listed in the records as “AS Media Enterprise, Super Glass and New Mohini Sweets”. These buildings had fully or partially occupied government plots.The third structure demolished had housed Mohisgote Free Primary School, which had been shifted a year earlier.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-307
14-09-2020||Calcutta||From construction site to NEET centre||A boy who had quit studies after higher secondary exams and started working on a daily wage to support his family appeared for the National Eligibility cum Entrance Test, the gateway to undergraduate medical courses in the country, on Sunday. Tapan Parua had been eking out a living for himself and his family over the past few years by carrying building materials at construction sites in Mumbai and Bangalore. He decided to leave it all in December 2019 and come back home to Sagar Island, in South 24-Parganas, to study. “I was working on a daily wage and sending money home. But it was not enough because my parents are ailing and they need more money,” Tapan said before entering his exam centre, DPS Ruby Park. “One day it dawned on me that to have a standing in life, I had to study. People rarely respect you if you are not educated.” Tapan arrived in Calcutta on Saturday. Accompanied by his brother-in-law, Tapan walked a kilometre from their village in Hatkhola to Ghoramara island. They then took a boat to Lot number 8 and from there a bus to Behala, where they stayed the night at a relative’s house. At home, preparing for the medical entrance exam did not entail a break from the struggle to keep the family afloat. At times, he had to help his brothers on the field. “That is part of life, I don’t mind it. Such are our circumstances,” Tapan said. The family lives in a house with a tiled roof, which gets flooded during the monsoon. “We shift to a relative’s house in the village and come back after water recedes,” he said. “They earn very little. If they don’t work for a day they won’t get paid,” said Tapan’s brother-in-law, Tapan Naskar, who is a mason. The village where the family lives hardly has any medical facilities. “For any treatment, we have to travel 18km to Kakdwip,” said the examinee. “If I have to give my family and myself a decent life, I have to do some job. Else, we will continue struggling…. I don’t know what is in store for us.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-307
14-09-2020||Calcutta||Parents not ready for in-person classes||Pandemic-wary parents are hesitant to send their wards to school, even those who are in senior classes, conversations the city institutions have had with guardians and pupils have revealed. Teachers and school heads have found out that the parents are mainly concerned about the possibility of their children getting infected, sharing transport or car pool and maintaining safeguards. Many parents are not ready to send their wards to school even for a few hours and only on some days a week. The central government has said schools outside containment zones can reopen from September 21 but only for students of Classes IX to XII and that too only for seeking guidance of teachers. Parents’ written consent is a must. A school head said another “stumbling block” for the institutions was the allocation of teachers if a small section of students agrees to attend classes in person. The schools are also discussing how teachers can take simultaneous online and in-person classes as there will be a section of students who will be at home while another batch will be in school. “We have been speaking to parents and they are sceptical and not very confident about sending their children to school. They are more concerned about travelling from home to school and school to home because in between they will be exposed to contact with others in cars or in any other transport,” said Terence Ireland, the principal of St James’ School. He said the school would be regularly sanitised and teachers would ensure social distancing in class, but the parents are worried about the breaks and what could happen when the students would enter and leave school. Some schools are considering asking students to come a few days a week only to clear doubts and seek guidance from teachers with parental consent, but such a possibility seems unlikely under the circumstances. “We have been speaking to the students’ council and also individually to students and based on their response we have found out that parents are unwilling to send their children to school,” said Anjana Saha, the principal of Mahadevi Birla World Academy. She said the school had gauged that not more than 20 per cent of students were ready to return to school. Mahadevi Birla, however, will send a form to parents to get their feedback. Several schools are also deliberating the logistics, especially if simultaneous online and in-person classes are to be held.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-307
14-09-2020||Calcutta||20 hits a second: rush for Metro e-passes||Over 2,500 e-passes for Monday were booked within an hour of the launch of the URL pathadisha.com/metro at 8pm on Sunday. The developers said the rush was increasing and by a little after 9pm, there were “over 20 hits per second”. In comparison, only about 1,700 passengers travelled by Metro throughout Sunday, when the carrier ran a curtailed service for NEET aspirants. The difference in the rush underscored the challenges awaiting the authorities in enforcing crowd control and social distancing measures from Monday, when the career resumes regular operations after 174 days. Metro tried booking an e-pass from 8.10pm on Sunday but could finally book one at 8.52pm. “Heavy traffic and poor connectivity can hamper bookings. We had not expected such a rush. When the link went live, only one server was operational. But within 30 minutes, we had to press two more into action,” said an official of the agency that has developed the technology. The e-pass is only for entry into a station and a passenger will need a smart card to enter a platform and board a train, said officials. New smart cards can be bought from ticket counters. Tokens have been suspended for now. The low volume of passengers on Sunday meant smooth implementation of crowd control and social distancing protocols. But the real test will start on Monday, said Metro officials. Calcutta Metro’s security is the responsibility of the Railway Protection Force. But the agency will have to depend on local police for crowd control, especially at the station gates. Senior Metro officials told this newspaper multiple times over the past few days that controlling the crowd at the station gates was the key to smooth operations under the “new normal”. The agency has come up with a list of do’s and don’ts for Metro travellers. The developers of the technology said a dynamic algorithm — based on data provided by Metro — is driving the system. The algorithm has put a cap on the number of passengers that will be allowed at every station in a time slot. The passes are being provided accordingly. The day’s bookings have been divided into 12 one-hour slots. Based on that algorithm, around 1,000 passengers are expected to be at Dum Dum station between 9am and 10am on Monday. During the same slot, only 25 are expected at Park Street. An input based on these estimates has been shared with the police. “The idea is to have more deployment at busy stations,” said a Metro official. “Dum Dum and Esplanade are expected to be among the busier stations. Local trains have not resumed yet. Otherwise, managing crowds at Dum Dum would have been more difficult,” said a Metro official. The carrier will run 110 trains from Monday. The first and last trains will leave the terminal stations at 8am and 7pm, respectively. Metro’s operational fleet comprises 23 air-conditioned trains and six non-AC rakes. “For running 110 trips, we need around a dozen rakes. The upkeep of the rakes has to be done in the daytime because there is a staff crunch at night. But we will try to run as many air-conditioned trains as possible,” said another official. The first and only operational phase of East-West Metro, too, will resume service on Monday. But passengers on East-West Metro will not need e-passes because the “crowd is not much”. Only smart cards will be enough. There will be 72 trains every day. The service will remain suspended on Sundays. Some do’s Wear a mask Use specified gates for entry and exit Listen to the announcements carefully Some don’ts People with fever, cough and cold should not travel by Metro Don’t touch handrails of escalators, station pillars More than three people should not use a lift||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-308
14-09-2020||Calcutta||NEET turnout touches 90%||The attendance was 80 to 90 per cent at many of the venues of the National Eligibility cum Entrance Test (NEET), through which all medical colleges in India admit students to their undergraduate courses, in the city on Sunday. Examinees said the availability of Metro trains made it easier for them to commute from their homes to their respective venues. Each of the 66 venues in Calcutta was allotted 200 to 900 candidates. “The attendance across most of the centres in Calcutta was about 80 to 90 per cent. The state administration and the police helped maintain social distancing outside the centres and also when the candidates entered and left a venue,” said an official associated with the exam. At a venue off EM Bypass, 717 of the 840 candidates turned up. At a Ballygunge centre, the turnout was 241 out of 300. Of the 780 candidates allotted to a Salt Lake centre, 690 turned up; of the 240 students assigned a centre near Rabindra Sadan, 191 wrote the exam; and of the 540 assigned a venue in central Calcutta, 451 appeared. In contrast, the attendance in the JEE (Main), held earlier this month, varied between 30 and 50 per cent in the city. The exam, also conducted by the National Testing Agency (NTA), was held across six days in only two centres in the city. The NEET candidates had to wear masks provided at the centres. At many venues, they wore gloves, too. “It was a little difficult to fill in the OMR sheets and turn pages wearing gloves,” said Ankan Maity, a Jadavpur resident who wrote the exam in Dum Dum. “Not just the exam, we were also worried about the infection.” According to the NTA guidelines, no more than 12 candidates were to be in each room. “We had followed all the protocols specified by NTA for the safety of the candidates…. We provided PPE kits to the guards at the gate,” said Loveleen Saigal, the principal of Birla High School. Several schools across the city opened their gates to students after a period of almost six months. “It was like a mock drill for us,” said Saigal. “Initially, we were jittery. After a gap of so many months so many people were coming to the school, but it went off well,” said Sanghamitra Mukherjee, the rector of Gokhale Memorial Girls’ School. Srijan Moitra, who lives in Sinthee, took Metro to reach his exam centre in Narendrapur. “Had there been no Metro, I would have had to cover the distance of 25km in a hired car or an app cab. It would have taken more time and been more expensive,” said Srijan. Not all candidates, however, were that fortunate. Basanti Paul had to travel from a village in Bagnan, in Howrah, to write the exam at a centre in Mandirtala, near Shibpur. She started at 8.30am and reached home at 7.30pm.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-308
14-09-2020||Calcutta||Lifeline chugs back to life||Metro trains rolled out with passengers after 173 days on Sunday, ferrying NEET candidates and their guardians. The city’s transport lifeline had suspended service on March 23 as a precaution against the spread of Covid-19. The first day went off smoothly as the number of passengers was just around 1,700. The real test awaits on Monday, the day the regular operations resume. The Metro authorities said they were gearing up for around 100,000 passengers on Monday. On Sunday, the first trains left the terminal stations at 10am. But commuters had started arriving much before that. National Eligibility cum Entrance Test was held from 2pm to 5pm but the reporting time at the centres was staggered for enforcement of Covid-19 protocols. Around 9.30am, there were more than 10 students, accompanied by family members, at Dum Dum station. Only two gates were open. Both were manned by RPF and police. “Please show your admit cards,” an RPF officer was heard telling a student. The students and their guardians had their body temperature checked by thermal scanners at the gates. They were given hand sanitisers before being directed towards ticket counters. They were asked the destination stations and given printed tickets. Smart card holders entered the platforms directly. Yellow lines were marked on the platform and at the ticket counters to maintain social distancing. The platform seats were also marked alternately. A total of 74 trains — 37 in each direction — ran on Sunday. Every alternate seat was cross-marked to maintain distancing protocols. But the low volume of passengers meant that many seats remained vacant. Under the supervision of RPF jawans, passengers stood in a queue before a train was about to enter the platform. “We entered the station around 9.55am. The train arrived after a few minutes,” said Shyamal Sikdar, who boarded a train from Dum Dum to Tollygunge. Sikdar’s son was to write the NEET at a centre near Tollygunge Metro station. “There were very few people in our compartment throughout the journey. It was a smooth ride,” said Sikdar. Aparna Patra and daughter Manisha had boarded a bus from Baguiati around 10am. They were not aware of Metro services. A passenger in the bus told Aparna about the special Metro trains for NEET aspirants. “We got down at Esplanade and took a train till Tollygunge. The Metro ride was quick and hassle free,” said Manisha. Metro staff at the stations were busy in the morning and evening guiding students and their family members. “It was good to be back doing what we are used to,” a station superintendent said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-308
