15-09-2020||Calcutta||Hearse van charge fixed at Rs 5,000||The next of kin of those dying of Covid in Calcutta and Bidhannagar can complain about hearse van operators overcharging at two phone numbers, a Calcutta Municipal Corporation official said on Monday. The numbers — 9830555111 and 9830011041 — belong to Atin Ghosh, a member of the CMC’s board of administrators who is in charge of the civic health department and is an officer on special duty. “There have been reports about hearse van operators overcharging people. People can lodge complaints on the numbers,” the CMC official said. “The civic body has fixed the charge at Rs 5,000.” It is not possible to break down charges based on distance, another CMC official said. “At times, operators have to pick up bodies from New Town or near the airport and take them to Dhapa. If you consider that Rs 5,000 is not unjust.” The CMC has to transport bodies from the Calcutta and Bidhannagar municipal areas. The charge has been fixed at Rs 5,000 because the two personnel in a van need to wear PPEs and the van needs to be sanitised regularly, an official said. “Why will operators provide such service if there is no profit? After a lot of difficulty we managed to convince two hearse van operators to transport Covid bodies.” The CMC’s own hearse vans transport bodies from government hospitals. But there are not enough vans to serve all private hospitals. So, private hospitals have been given the contact details of private hearse van operators. Hospitals are supposed to hand over the numbers to relatives of the dead, the official said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-305
15-09-2020||Calcutta||Three pedestrians killed in three accidents ||Three pedestrians died in three accidents across the city on Monday. Swagata Saha, 55, a resident of Ranaghat, was waiting near a footpath outside a jewellery store in Ultadanga close to the Hudco crossing when a dumper hit her while trying to take a right turn on Monday evening, police said. Saha was taken to NRS Medical College and Hospital where she was declared dead. Officers of Maniktala police station said the dumper was moving at high speed and was close to the footpath to the left of the road where the woman was standing when the accident took place. At that time, there were several people on the footpath, most of them waiting for public transport, the police said. The dumper has been seized and the driver detained. The driver does not have a licence and he could be aged below 18, according to the preliminary investigation. The dumper will be sent for a mechanical examination to ascertain if it had developed any technical snag, which led to the accident, the police said. The other two accidents took place in the Sealdah area — one of them on the Sealdah flyover in the evening. A man, whose identity could not be ascertained till late at night, was hit by a private bus on the flyover, the police said. “It appears he had got off another vehicle on the flyover and was trying to cross the road near the flank leading to MG Road. He was hit by a bus while he was crossing the road,” an officer of Muchipara police station said. The bus fled the spot after the accident. Cops are scanning footage of CCTV cameras installed on the flyover to ascertain the identity of the vehicle from which he had got off and that of the bus. “No one is allowed to get off or board any vehicle on the flyover. Had the victim followed the rule, he may have been alive today,” an officer said. The third accident happened in the morning on AJC Bose Road in front of NRS Medical College and Hospital. A woman, who lived on the footpath, was trying to cross the road while the traffic signal was green and was hit by a private bus, the police said. The driver has been arrested on charges of causing death by negligence and rash and negligent driving. According to police records, more than half of the people who die in road accidents in Calcutta are pedestrians. A large number of pedestrian deaths are caused because of encroached and over-crowded footpaths, forcing people to walk or stand on the road, risking their lives. Some pedestrian deaths are a result of lawlessness, the police said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-306
15-09-2020||Calcutta||Jadavpur University starts classes for new semester||Classes in the new semester for arts and science students at Jadavpur University started on Monday. Compensatory classes to make up for the ones students had missed out on in the previous semester ended on Sunday. Half the classes of the previous semester could not be held because the campus had to be shut down on March 16 as a precaution against Covid-19. An official said the “distance digital mode” was being followed for holding the classes and this entailed making study materials such as notes, soft copies of textbooks, and audio and video demonstrations available to the students through email and WhatsApp. He said teachers could hold live online classes for students with sound Internet connectivity at home. “It is a kind of mixed mode. Live online classes can be arranged for a group sure of Net connectivity. But there has to be a backup plan for those who will miss out on online classes because of connectivity issues. No one should be left out,” the official said. A physics teacher said he held a live online class for 17 students on Monday afternoon. “Two or three students missed five minutes’ lecture because of a snag. For them we uploaded the recorded lectures on a digital platform the university has subscribed to. We will share with them the link to the lecture,” the teacher said. The study materials are also being uploaded on a central repository created on the digital platform. Once the content is uploaded, the addresses of the files — in Word or PDF format, audio notes or video recordings — will be shared with the students. Pro-vice-chancellor Pradip Ghosh said teachers were free to hold a few more compensatory classes. “We have left it to the teachers,’’ he said. The regular classes will continue till the exams in December. The university has raised more than Rs 20 lakh to buy smartphones and high-speed data packs for the 500-odd students who have poor Net connectivity at home.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-306
15-09-2020||Calcutta||Dhakuria flyover plan: repair of approaches ||The two approaches to the Dhakuria flyover have become undulating making it difficult for vehicles to negotiate the gradient, engineers who conducted a load test on the south Calcutta structure recently have concluded. The flyover has otherwise been found to be structurally stable. To make the ride smoother on both approaches to the flyover — built in 1963 — structural experts and advisers to the state government on bridge safety have decided to first reduce the gradient. Once that is done, the undulating surface on the approaches will be repaired. “The structure is quite old and it would be a challenge to achieve our objective to make the ride smoother on the two approaches. But we will have to find a way,” said a member of the expert committee set up by the state government to look into the health of bridges and flyovers maintained by the state’s urban development department. “There will be three clear benefits once we achieve our goal — vehicular emission will be reduced, operating cost of maintaining vehicles will come down, and wear and tear of tyres will be minimised.” Once the two approaches are repaired, the committee may apply the technique to other flyovers that suffer from the same problem. The pier-less, 380m-long bridge was shut down for two days in July because engineers wanted to test it’s load-bearing capacity. The Dhakuria flyover stands on inclining concrete walls filled with sand or earth. Railway tracks run below an 80m-long section of the bridge. Structural engineers have said the technology used to build the flyover had become dated. “There are no piers holding the flyover. It has concrete walls from bottom to top with soil in the middle. The paved road was built above the soil. This technique has become dated,” said an engineer. A few years back an inspection had revealed that rats had burrowed large holes underneath the flyover. In June 2013, a portion of the walkway on the flyover had collapsed and created a 1.5ft gap, wide enough to raise doubts about the stability of the 57-year-old structure. “There is nothing much to worry about the main structure. There are certain needs for maintenance and it will be carried out,” said an engineer of the urban development department.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-306
15-09-2020||Calcutta||28km in 3 hours: traffic crawls on BT Road||Barrackpore to Esplanade Distance: 28km Travel time: Over three hours Travelling along BT Road for the tens of thousands of commuters using the road daily has turned from bad to worse in the past few weeks. A repair work on a flyover at Dunlop just when things have been opening up has compounded the problems. Trucks and buses from Dakshineswar in the west had been using the Dunlop flyover to keep the Dunlop crossing clutter-free. Now they can’t do so because of the repair work on the flyover. The result: they are on the road and travel time has gone up. The PWD started structural repairs of the flyover from September, restricting the movement of heavy vehicles on it. Regular commuters listed various problems while speaking to The Telegraph: ⚫Too many vehicles compared to the number of cops on BT Road ⚫Trucks cripple the traffic flow at the Dunlop crossing ⚫Lack of alternatives to BT Road ⚫Diversions in the absence of the Tallah bridge ⚫Slow-moving vehicles, including cycles, in the middle of the road Srirup Mukherjee, a professional headed for office in Esplanade, started from Barrackpore around 9.15am on Monday. A journey that used to take him one-and-a-half hours took him more than three hours. “To avoid the rush on BT Road, I took the Kalyani Expressway. But that turned out to be a big mistake. We were stuck in a kilometre-long snarl at the Sodepur junction and then again at the Nimta crossing,” Mukherjee said. Mukherjee and his friend who were travelling together returned to BT Road through Belghoria hoping for better traffic movement. By then, two hours had passed. He reached his office at 12.45pm. Muktesh Gupta, a trader who was in a hurry to reach his MG Road shop, reached two hours later than the scheduled time of appointment with a client. Now that the festive season sale is about to pick up, such delays can prove costly, Gupta said. “After so many months, I had got a good customer from south Calcutta… he wanted to make a bulk purchase. Unfortunately, I reached two hours late for the meeting.” Gupta had started from his Sodepur home around 10am. Most of his time was spent between the Sodepur and the Dunlop crossing he said. Both Gupta and Mukherjee said cops tried to regulate traffic but the volume of vehicles appeared too large to control. The number of vehicles and commuters on BT Road has almost doubled since local trains were suspended, according to officers in the Barrackpore commissionerate. The road is the only option available at present for people from the northern outskirts to reach the heart of the city. Shops and offices have opened. The Tallah bridge and the Dunlop flyover are shut. And all these have aggravated the problem. Some cops blamed autos that sprang to life with the resumption of Metro services for the Monday madness. “Commuters who would wait for buses will now like to use the Metro. This is exactly what happened today,” an officer said. “There was a surge in the number of autos plying till Tobin Road and Dunlop. Most passengers were headed for the Noapara Metro station.” Congestion at the Dunlop crossing is likely to be the biggest challenge to keep the traffic moving during the festive season, according to some officers. Thousands of trucks turn towards the city from the Dunlop crossing. “The time taken by a heavy goods vehicle to turn is at least three times the time taken by a car or other similar four-wheelers. This means, by the time a truck takes a turn, there will be a queue of at least four smaller vehicles on the road. One can imagine the sort of congestion if thousands of trucks move along the stretch,” an officer said. BT Road is the arterial road connecting the city to the northern outskirts and it becomes exceptionally crowded every year during the festive season, police said. “In the absence of local trains, we expect double the pressure this year,” an officer in the Barrackpore commissionerate said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-306
15-09-2020||Calcutta||Five months on, food on board flights||The flight catering units at Calcutta airport have started preparing meals again after more than five months as airlines have resumed serving food on flights. The Oberoi group’s flight catering unit started loading meals on flights from Sunday, an official of the unit said. Taj Sats Air Catering Ltd, the in-flight catering unit of the Taj group, has started preparing food for passengers again from September 8. On Sunday, Oberoi Flight Services and Oberoi Airport Services loaded more than 200 boxes of sandwiches and close to 150 packets of pre-booked meals on domestic flights of airlines, including IndiGo and SpiceJet. At one point, it used to provide 4,000 to 5,000 meals every day, an official said. The flight catering unit of the Taj group has been providing close to 750 meals since September 8, mainly to Air India flights. On Monday, it provided close to 2,000 meal boxes to Air India flights because the airline operated two big aircraft to Delhi, the catering unit official said. Before the pandemic, the unit had been provided about 6,000 meals every day, he said While the Oberoi unit serves hot meals for lunch and dinner, the Taj unit provides snacks that include kathi rolls, patties, cakes and biscuits. “The bigger meal boxes that contain kathi rolls, along with other items, are for longer flights to cities like Delhi and Mumbai,” the catering unit official said. The flight catering units became non-functional towards the end of March when commercial planes had stopped flying because of the pandemic. Even after domestic flights and international evacuation flights resumed, the civil aviation ministry hadn’t given permission to serve meals on board because of safety reasons. The Telegraph had in June reported that the Oberoi catering unit had written to the Centre, urging it to allow serving meals on board. “Our factory has been closed since March 20 and there is no revenue. The earnings of several operating companies — especially those in hospitality, aviation and non-grocery retail — have been hit because of business restrictions in the country triggered by the pandemic,” A. Imam Malik, unit head/head-corporate affairs, Oberoi Flight Services and Oberoi Airport Services, had written in an email to the ministry on June 15. “You are earnestly requested to kindly withdraw the restriction on in-flight catering facility to passengers on domestic airlines.” The unit has close to 200 employees. Now, more than 100 have returned to work. Recently, the Centre allowed serving meals on board. “Having meals on board is part of the flying experience. Most passengers are having the meals,” an official of Vistara, a full service carrier, said. The airline has been operating four flights, two each to Mumbai and Delhi, thrice a week. About 30 per cent of passengers on Indigo’s flights out of Calcutta are pre-booking meals while booking tickets, an IndiGo official said. If flights from Delhi, Mumbai, Chennai, Ahmedabad, Pune and Nagpur are allowed to operate daily to Calcutta, the catering units would have more business, according to officials of such units. Now, flights from these cities are allowed thrice a week because the state government has requested the Centre for such an arrangement because of the high number of Covid patients in these cities. On Sunday, 103 flights took off from Calcutta with 16,159 passengers, according to airport officials. These include flights to the six cities. The number of passengers goes down below 10,000 on other days, an official said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-306
15-09-2020||Calcutta||20 more students want  to return to IIM campus||At least 20 of IIM Calcutta’s final-year MBA (two-year course) students have requested the institute to allow them to return to the campus and use its Net facility to attend disruption-free online classes, an official said. The requests started pouring in after the institute allowed 62 executive MBA (one-year course) students to return to the campus and use the Net facility to attend online classes without any disruption, the official said. Of the 62, six reached the campus on Sunday. The MBA programme office is in touch with parents of the 20 final-year students to decide how and when they might be allowed on the campus. The two-year MBA course has 462 students. “Initially, one or two students had requested. Since the announcement regarding the MBA executive students, the number of requests from final-year MBA students has gone up,” the official said. “The number is likely to go up further.” Hunar Gandhi, IIM-C student council president, had earlier written to director Anju Seth asking if it would be possible to allow some students who may have Net connectivity problems or other difficulties at home to return to the campus and use the institute infrastructure to attend online classes. In the same letter he had said students were apprehensive about the quality of learning in online classes. The MBA students had attended classes on the campus in the first year. The second-year classes have been online so far because of the pandemic. At least 61 of the institute’s 82 teachers had on Saturday written to its board of governors that the digital infrastructure on the campus was in “poor shape”. The executive MBA students will face Net connectivity problems, they said. “We are, therefore, not sure if this decision to bring them to the campus will improve the quality of online education.” The Telegraph could not get in touch with director Seth for her version on the matter. The institute will take the call on allowing the 20 final-year students depending on the success of the plan involving the 62 executive MBA students.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-306
15-09-2020||Calcutta||Metro commuters complain of recharge glitch||Several Metro passengers alleged glitches in the online smart card recharge system on Monday, the day the carrier resumed services for all after 174 days. The commuters said they had recharged their cards online recently but on Monday, the updated balance was not being reflected on the card-reading machines at the stations. Station officials took down details of such complainants at almost every station. Around 10.05am at Tollygunge station, the register had around 10 names, said a passenger who faced a similar issue. Around 10.40am, a similar register at Chandni Chowk station had over 15 names, said a passenger. “On Friday, I had done an online recharge of Rs 1,000 through the Metro app (Metro Railway Kolkata). I got a message from my bank, confirming that my account had been debited. But on Monday, the card-reading machine at the station did not reflect the balance,” said a man who was headed to Rabindra Sadan from Tollygunge. A Behala resident entered Tollygunge station around 10.05am but could not board a train before 10.35am because of the alleged glitch. “I had opted for a Rs 100-recharge online on September 4 through the Metro app. The transaction history confirmed a top-up of Rs 100. But on Monday, the card-reading machine did not reflect anything, not even the previous balance,” said the passenger. From the ticket counter, he was redirected to the station superintendent’s room where officials told him that there was “a technical problem with the payment gateway”. “Kano je ei sob online koren (why do you do these things online)?” a station employee is said to have told the passenger. He was issued another card and asked to visit the station after a week. The problem will be sorted out by then and he will be given a refund against the updated balance of his previous card, officials said. Around 12.10pm, he received a message saying the September 4 online recharge “was successful”. He was asked to visit any Metro station to update his card balance. A Metro official said the money debited from a passenger’s account went to a bank’s pool before being transferred to the railways’ account. “I cannot comment on individual cases without studying them but similar issues happen when the system does not allow one payment unless the previous one is complete. A system which allows concurrent or parallel payments does not usually suffer from such problems,” said an official of a firm that handles IT solutions for government agencies. Metro general manager Manoj Joshi said he was aware of the problem. “Some passengers have faced the issue. It is a technical problem. Our officials are working on it and the problem will be addressed shortly,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-306
15-09-2020||Calcutta||First load of Bangladeshi Hilsa arrives||The season’s first consignment of the Bangladesh hilsa arrived in Bengal through the Petrapole land port in three trucks on Monday evening as a pre-Puja gift from the neighbour. Bangladesh had last week announced its decision to export 1,450 tonnes of hilsa to India, the largest consignment in recent times, lifting its embargo temporarily. The first consignment of 12 tonnes headed for Calcutta soon after its arrival. “More such consignments will come by October 10,” a member of West Bengal Fish Importers’ Association said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-306
15-09-2020||Calcutta||Keep pandals open, let air flow freely: Mamata||Chief minister Mamata Banerjee on Monday said Durga Puja pandals should be kept open on the sides to ensure free flow of air, stressing one of the key precautions against the spread of Covid-19. “Durga Puja is a big challenge and in Bengal, it is a national festival. Let the pandals be kept open so that there is circulation of air,” Mamata said in Nabanna. “Open thakley hawa batash boibe (If it is kept open, air will flow). It is for precaution. To be safe.” The Puja starts on October 22 (Sashthi) and many organisers across Calcutta have started erecting pandals. “We will request the Puja committees to keep the pandals open on the sides. There is no point keeping some provisions for ventilation. Khola howa thakley onek bhalo hobey (It would be better if there is free passage of air),” the chief minister said. Bengal is not unfamiliar with what Mamata has suggested. Till the advent of theme-based pujas, pandals across Calcutta used to be largely open structures.The idols would be placed in a three side-covered area and the main pandal would open into a mandap or a shamiana. Since the time theme-based Pujas became fashionable, pandals would be made in a manner that would require visitors to enter the structures to watch the idols. Mamata said the customary meeting with the puja organisers would be held on September 25, where the precautionary steps needed to be taken would be discussed. “Many visitors turn up at pandals to offer anjali. If the pandal is kept open, it would be easier to breathe. If there are any germs, even those will go away,” Mamata said, explaining why she felt the need for restructuring puja pandals this year. “The (corona)virus is yet to go away. I’m not saying about the area where the deity will be kept. But the remaining space can be kept open.” Mahalaya, which for many marks the beginning of Bengal’s autumn festivity, usually precedes the Puja by a week. But this year the occasion is just two days away and more than a month before the Puja. Around 4,500 community pujas are organised in the city every year. With the Covid-19 pandemic playing havoc, most organisers have cut down their budgets, opting for smaller idols and trimming other expenditures. But themes have remained. With the chief minister suggesting to keep pandals open, several organisers said they would have to sit down with the artists to find a way out so that the themes prevailed and the pandals were kept open. “There is not much time. We will have to sit with our artists and discuss Plan B,” said Sandipan Banerjee, of Behala Notun Dal puja committee. “I think a clear picture will emerge when we get to meet the chief minister.” The chief minister also referred to the global advisory board she had earlier set up for Covid-19 management and said the panel suggested keeping puja pandals open. The advisory board is headed by Nobel laureate economist Abhijit Vinayak Banerjee. “We have accepted their proposal. I will also request the puja committees to do so,” Mamata said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-306
15-09-2020||Calcutta||Calcutta Metro rolls into e-pass age||The Telegraph took a Metro ride from Tollygunge to Chandni Chowk on Monday, when the carrier resumed services for all after 174 days. The service was suspended on March 23 because of the Covid pandemic. Here’s what we saw on Monday A handful of people were huddled near a tea stall outside Tollygunge Metro station around 10.10am on Monday. Asish Kumar Rout was the centre of attraction in the group. His pull — familiarity with the system of booking e-passes. The group included two middle-aged men and a younger man who seemed unable to book passes. Rout could book passes for two of them. When he tried booking an e-pass for the third, he could not. The queue outside the main gate of the station had over 20 people. Cops at the gate were asking each commuter to show the colour-coded e-pass. A thermal gun scanned every wrist for the body temperature before letting people in. Another cop standing beside the metal detector gate directed every entrant to a hand sanitiser dispenser. A couple of passengers preferred taking a sanitiser out of their bags and using it in front of the cop. The next stop was the ticket counter. Two of the five counters were operational. Only a handful of people stood in front of each, for recharge of smart cards. Before the carrier suspended operations, the queue at the counters seemed never ending. Two of the many flap gates were being used for entry into the platform. Yellow lines on the platform — painted to maintain social distancing — outnumbered passengers. An air-conditioned rake arrived within five minutes. An RPF jawan stood at the gate of a coach to keep an eye on the passengers boarding the train. At Tollygunge, the number of people boarding the train was much more than those getting off it. Inside the train, most seats allotted for passengers — every alternate one was cross-marked to maintain distancing — were occupied. Only the last coach had several vacant seats. Seats reserved for senior citizens were mostly vacant. A Metro employee was doing the rounds of the coaches, guiding passengers and occasionally taking pictures. The public address system switched between two announcements — about Covid-19 protocols and an approaching station. The stop time at each station was around 30 seconds. It seemed more than enough because only a few people were boarding or getting off the train. The usual Monday morning rush at Kalighat and Rabindra Sadan meant people jostling for an inch of space and doors refusing to close because of the crowds. On Monday, only a handful of passengers were waiting on the platforms. At some stations, there were none. Metro officials had said they would not allow more than 50 people in a coach. The coach this correspondent boarded had around 20 passengers. At Esplanade, five people boarded the coach — the maximum between Tollygunge and Chandni Chowk.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-306
15-09-2020||Calcutta||People put off by Kolkata Metro e-pass mandate||Around 20,000 people boarded Metro trains on Monday, when the carrier resumed services for all after 174 days. The Metro authorities had geared up for around 100,000 passengers in the run-up to the resumption of commercial services in the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic. The actual number made their job easier and Day One went off reasonably smoothly. The developer of the technology behind the e-pass — needed for access to Metro stations — had on Sunday told Metro that over 2,500 passes were booked in the first hour since the link’s launch at 8pm. “Around 53,000 passes were booked for Monday. But many people did not turn up. It seems some booked passes to get familiar with the system,” said an official of the agency that has developed the system. The number should go up in the coming days, said Metro officials. Railway officials suggested that the need to book an e-pass put many people off. At Dum Dum, Tollygunge and some other stations, groups of passengers were seen seeking help from Metro personnel, cops and fellow passengers in booking e-passes. The first trains left the terminal stations at 8am on Monday. Dum Dum saw a semblance of rush during the morning and Park Street in the evening. Otherwise, the volume of passengers was low throughout the day. From 9am, the queue at Dum Dum station started getting longer. Around 9.55am, the queue at gate number 4 had over 50 passengers. But around the same time, a train left New Garia station with less than five passengers. Around 6pm, Park Street had scores of passengers on both platforms and a New Garia-bound train was reasonably full when it left the station. “I had to travel in crowded buses to reach my office. A crowded Metro is a better option than a crowded bus,” said Biswajit Sarkar, a Kasba resident who boarded a train from Kalighat. He was in for a surprise after entering the station. The coach he boarded around 11.30am only had four other occupants. The authorities had geared up for a maximum of 400 passengers on each train and 50 in each coach. But barring a few trains that left Dum Dum in the morning, most others did not even ferry half that number. “Around 20,000 passengers took Metro trains in the Noapara-Kavi Subhash (New Garia) corridor till 7pm, when the last trains left the terminal stations,” said Metro spokesperson Indrani Banerjee. Only a couple of gates — one each for entry and exit — were opened for passengers at most stations. Police and RPF personnel guarded the gates, where every passenger was asked to show his or her colour-coded pass. A limited number of ticket counters were open for passengers to recharge smart cards and buy new ones. The interval between two trains was 10 and 15 minutes during different slots of the day. In the East-West corridor, the passenger count was around 80, said the Metro spokesperson.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-307
