16-09-2020||Calcutta||Cabbie makes lewd gesture at Mimi, arrested||Actor-turned-MP Mimi Chakraborty was allegedly stalked and subjected to lewd gestures by a taxi driver near Ballygunge Phari while she was returning home in her car on Monday afternoon. Mimi, who did not have her guards with her, ensured that her vehicle blocked the taxi’s way before she stepped out and held the accused by his collar. The driver was allowed to go as the blocked thoroughfare was causing traffic snarls. But the vehicle was identified and the driver arrested later at night. The driver, identified as Deba Yadav, 32, was arrested from his Panchannagram home. Yadav has been booked under the charges of outrage of modesty of a woman, stalking and outrage of a woman through words and gestures. If convicted, he could be jailed for five years. Yadav has been remanded in police custody till September 20. The actor was on her way home to Kasba around 1.30pm when she noticed the driver of a yellow taxi staring at her. “Then I saw him winking at me. I thought it was a tic and ignored it. The taxi then overtook my car and the driver started making lewd gestures at me. Although I was alone (without security), I had to stop the taxi. My car (she had a driver) came to a stop in front of that taxi,” Mimi told Metro on Tuesday. “It was raining heavily… I came out of my car and confronted him (the taxi driver). I shook him by the collar and taught him a good lesson. A crowd started to gather… traffic was coming to a halt… so I had to let him go and he sped away. I had the belief that the administration would catch hold of him and that is what has happened. By night he was caught,” she said. Despite the rain and the Covid pandemic, Mimi stepped out of the car and confronted the man. She could have noted the number and gave it to the police. Why did she get out of the car? “That was my responsibility as a citizen and that is what I did. I just knew if I didn’t put a stop to this, he might mistreat another woman the next day. He was drinking and driving. He is a taxi driver… women get into his cab with the belief that he will ferry them home safely. How safe will they feel? So I had to take that step,” said Mimi, who lodged an FIR. “It is very important that a woman raises her voice and protests. There are hundreds of such cases that go unreported because many women cannot muster the courage to protest,” said an officer in Lalbazar.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-304
16-09-2020||Calcutta||Patchwork to cover potholes before Durga Puja||Damaged roads in the city will get a coat of patchwork before Durga Puja and the Calcutta Municipal Corporation has asked all agencies to complete the work by October 15, a civic official said. Repairs before Durga Puja are an annual affair — one of the two times in a year when battered roads get somewhat healed. This year, though, this will be the first repair for many roads. No repair could be carried out before the monsoon because of the lockdown, the official said. The patchwork will provide a temporary cover to craters and potholes on roads. Such repairs do not last beyond a few months, according to civic engineers. It is even less if it rains. “All agencies who maintain roads in Calcutta were present at a meeting on Tuesday where it was decided to carry out the repairs. They have been asked to complete the repairs by October 15,” a CMC official who was present at the meeting said. “Besides the CMC, officials from the public works department, the Calcutta Metropolitan Development Authority, the irrigation department and the Calcutta Port Trust were present at the meeting.” People have WhatsApped pictures of various potholed roads to Firhad Hakim (8335988888), the chairman of the CMC’s board of administrators. Police, too, have sent a list of roads where repairs are necessary and one more list is awaited. The traffic guards are preparing one more such list that will be given to the CMC, a police officer said. A 150m stretch of the Garia-bound flank from Calcutta International School to the Ruby crossing is in poor state, Chandan Banerjee, a New Garia resident, said. Banerjee takes the Bypass every day to reach his office near Esplanade. There are multiple craters and cars often brake suddenly to avoid a crater, raising the chance of the vehicle behind to crash into it, he said. “It is all the more difficult for two-wheelers and things worsen if it rains. Visibility drops during heavy rain and trying to negotiate a crater is risky.” At Tuesday’s meeting, an embargo was imposed on any project that will lead to digging roads from October 1 till Kali Puja, a CMC official said. All agencies will have a lot to do because many roads were not repaired before the monsoon, a CMC engineer said. The period between March and May is used to repair roads as this is a dry phase. But skilled hands were unavailable and moving material was difficult because of the lockdown. As a result, little work could be done, the engineer said. “There will be more work this year than previous years. There is already a backlog of roads that could not be repaired… the rain has further worsened their condition. So, carrying out repairs will be more difficult,” he said. Also, patchwork has its own disadvantages. It doesn’t stay for long. The friction caused by the movement of vehicles wears away the repairs within a few months. If it rains, the life of a patchwork gets further shortened, the engineer said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-304
16-09-2020||Calcutta||Calcutta Metro pass relief for senior citizens||Metro trains ferried a little over 27,000 people on the Noapara-Kavi Subhash (New Garia) route on Tuesday, a jump of 7,000 over the previous day when the carrier had resumed commercial service for all following the Covid-induced suspension. On Tuesday, Metro announced that “senior citizens” (60 years and above) would be able to enter stations without e-passes from 11.30am to 4.30pm. The first and last trains leave the terminal stations at 8am and 7pm, respectively. Senior citizens have to bring an identity proof — PAN card, Aadhaar card, driving licence, passport or voter card — to enter the station and will need a smart card to board a train. The tech barrier had prevented many aged people from availing themselves of the service and most of the seats reserved for senior citizens on trains were vacant on Monday and Tuesday. “Many senior citizens might have problems in getting familiar with the technology of booking e-passes. They can now enter Metro stations by showing an identity proof,” Metro spokesperson Indrani Banerjee said on Tuesday. Metro officials said 27,100 passengers travelled by Metro on Tuesday, compared with 20,000 the day before. Around 57,000 passes were booked on Tuesday, compared with the 53,000-odd on Monday, said the developer of the e-pass technology. An e-pass is needed for entry into a Metro station and a smart card for boarding a train. “The gap between bookings and actual trips will come down gradually,” said a Metro official. Like the previous day, the morning and evening office hours saw queues at some stations, most notably Dum Dum and Tollygunge, on Tuesday. From 9am to noon, the queue at Tollygunge kept getting longer every time a new slot was approaching. The 8am to 8pm operations have been divided into 12 one-hour slots. Around 9.55am, there were over 50 people in the queue. Around 10.40am, Metro tried booking a pass for the 11am-noon slot but none was available. Several passengers were yet to get familiar with the system of booking passes. Across stations, there were people seeking help from Railway Protection Force and police personnel for booking a pass. Around 10.15am at Tollygunge, a civic volunteer who seemed well versed with the system was surrounded by at least 10 passengers who sought her help. One of them was Durgacharan Dutta, who sells card-swiping machines for a private bank. The Bansdroni resident saw the civic volunteer helping others in booking passes and approached her for help. Dutta, however, could not find a pass for the 10am-noon slot and booked one for the next slot. “It’s okay. The system is new and people will take time to adjust. But Metro resumption is a big help. Riding a scooter from Tollygunge to Dalhousie takes over 40 minutes. An air-conditioned Metro ride takes half the time,” he said. In the evening, scores of passengers were seen trying to book passes outside Dum Dum, Esplanade, Park Street and Tollygunge stations.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-304
16-09-2020||Calcutta||Covid shadow on cooking gas demand||Domestic LPG consumption in and around Calcutta has dipped over the past few months because of Covid-19, a number distributors of Indian Oil Corporation (IOC) said. Many distributors said the demand for refilled domestic LPG cylinders had gone down by more a thousand a month in their respective zones. A message from the IOC with a request to drive up sales reached distributors through WhatsApp this week. “Dear All Distributors: Industry growth in the month is 2 percent whereas growth of North 24-Pgs (-)10.5 percent, Kolkata (-)3 percent, South Kolkata (-) 2.23 percent. Pls come up. Check last 3 months’ refill data. Put your showroom staff and delivery man on the job for booking and delivery to these customers,” said one message. “Above negative growth in these three districts are of IOCL, ie of Kolkata AO (area office) ...,” the second message read. A senior IOC official, however, denied any drop in demand. “It’s true that the growth has stagnated for the last few months in and around Calcutta compared with the districts. But I don’t think there is a drop in refills,” said the official. The company had in July sent mails to the distributors in the city, informing them that several had registered negative growth in supplying refilled domestic LPG cylinders. According to the distributors, many of whom said they had sent their employees and delivery personnel to homes where refill demands have gone down to find out the reason, there are several factors for the dip. Many people who were staying on rent in Calcutta and surrounding areas, and working in private companies, shops, stores and other places, have lost their jobs following the Covid-related lockdown, which had brought business to a halt. Most of them have returned to their native places and, hence, are not booking refilled cylinders in the city. Many others have had their incomes drastically reduced and cut down costs, including those incurred on cooking. At many households cooks are not coming because they stay in suburbs and cannot commute to the city as train service has not yet resumed. Such families are either getting food from outside or cooking much less than their hired cooks used to, resulting in a slump in the LPG demand. Another reason for the LPG demand taking a hit is that many students and others who stayed as paying guests in the city have returned home because of Covid. Their landlords now have to cook much less. A homemaker at Jodhpur Park said their cooking gas consumption had gone down. “We are asking the cook to come every third day and she is cooking a dish that lasts three days. Earlier, she would come daily,” the homemaker said. “So, our LPG requirement has gone down from one every two months to one every two-and-a-half months. In fact, for the period when the cook was sent on leave, a cylinder lasted for even a longer duration because we used to cook on low flame and were careful to switch off when the ingredients were not ready, which a cook usually does not do,” she said. “There has been a sharp dip in refill orders for domestic LPG across Calcutta and the suburbs, which we think is a direct impact of Covid-19. This is in addition to the sharp dip in sales of commercial LPG cylinders because hotels and restaurants were closed for a long time. Many people are not ordering for refills at intervals which they would earlier do,” said Bijan Behari Biswas, president, Indane Distributors’ Association, West Bengal. Biswas said many of those who are in the BPL category and have been given money in advance by the Centre to get three cylinders free because of the pandemic are not booking refills. “Many of these consumers have spent the money on other things. So they are yet to take all the three refills that they are entitled to,” said Biswas. Sreema Indane Distributor in Garia has about 22,000 consumers. For the last five to six years, the agency had been supplying 14,000 to 14,500 refilled cylinders every month. Since July, the number has gone down to 11,000. “We have asked many delivery personnel not to come to work because of the fewer orders,” said Sunil Baran Dey, proprietor of Sreema Indane Distributor. “People don’t have money in hand and are trying to cut costs as much as possible.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-304
16-09-2020||Calcutta||Rs 5 lakh from Jadavpur University alumna to bridge gap||A Jadavpur University alumna who taught at the university for 36 years donated Rs 5 lakh to her alma mater to help it buy smartphones and data packs for poor students facing Net connectivity problems. Krishna Roy, 79, a resident of Jatin Bagchi Road in south Calcutta, had done her PhD from the university. She did not bother about the possible health risk and came to Aurobindo Bhavan — the university’s administrative headquarters — on Monday to hand over the cheque. The former head of the philosophy department had retired in 2006. During her stay on the campus she had seen many students grappling with financial problems, she said. The septuagenarian found it an “irresistible call” when she got to know of the university’s fundraising drive to build a corpus to help poor students with smartphones and high-speed data packs. “Scores of poor students study at JU. They cannot afford such a device or Net connectivity that is a must to attend online classes. When I got to know that vice-chancellor Suranjan Das has requested all to raise funds to help disadvantaged students, I found the call irresistible,” Roy said. In August, Das had requested university teachers and other employees to donate a day’s salary and the alumni, guardians and others to contribute and help raise money to provide students with smartphones and high-speed data packs so that they can overcome the digital divide and attend classes. Roy who had graduated from Jogomaya Devi College believes in the joy of giving. Last year, she had donated Rs 5 lakh to an organisation that works to help those in distress. “I am a pensioner. Whatever I draw I consider adequate for my sustenance. When my alma mater is going to unparalleled lengths to tide over the digital divide, I thought I would do as much to support the initiative,” Roy said. On Monday, she had met Gour Krishna Pattanayak, the finance officer of JU. He took her to the vice-chancellor’s office. “I had heard about Suranjan babu but hadn’t got any opportunity to meet him. Considering that virtual education is the way forward during the pandemic, what he has been doing is laudable,” Roy said. “I am touched by the Krishna Roy’s gesture. At a time like this when everybody is busy saving for himself or herself, wary of what is going to unfold, this gesture of giving stands out,” VC Das said. “It will help us ensure no one is left out for want of Net connectivity.” Some former mechanical engineering students have donated Rs 1.95 lakh to the corpus. Ananda Sengupta, a former student from the mechanical engineering department who, like VC Das, is from South Point School, played a key role in raising the fund. A survey on Net connectivity, conducted by the university, has shown 110 students need smartphones and 400-odd students need high-speed data packs. Classes for the new semester in arts and science have started from September 14 and the university has started the process of buying phones and data packs.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-304
16-09-2020||Calcutta||In coronavirus crisis, interest-free loans ||Shankar Paswan ran a roadside sindoor stall in the Kalighat area before he had to shut up shop because of the lockdown. He used up his capital, borrowed money from lenders and survived on rations. Customers started returning but Paswan had no capital to restart his business. He needed Rs 3,000. Siliya Debi needed Rs 2,000 to restart the tea stall she had been running in Hazra for more than 15 years. It is no mean sum for her to arrange with grandchildren at home to feed. Calcutta Social Project, an NGO that has been working with women and children for almost five decades have decided to provide interest-free loans to such vendors to help them restart their businesses during the pandemic. The idea is not to give them donations or grants but let them remain “self-respecting vendors”, Arjun Dutta, the president of Calcutta Social Project, said. “They have to repay as and when they are able to.” The NGO will provide loans ranging from Rs 2,000 to Rs 7,000. The thought of giving loans came after speaking to food aid beneficiaries whom the NGO has been providing with ration during the lockdown, Dutta said. “We realised there are so many small independent people who have been reduced to being destitute… dependents on our charity… who have lost their security, self-respect and sustainability,” he said. “We have started identifying such people and restoring their businesses by helping them with funds. We will do this for small operators and they will repay when they can… the time can be decided when the loan is disbursed.” The NGO has formed a panel for the livelihood loans programme to “identify genuine people in need of help”. Those who have been given loans are not being left to themselves. Volunteers from the NGO are tracking their progress, Dutta said. On Tuesday, Paswan reopened his shop after more than six months. He went to Burrabazar on Monday to buy sindoor and shades with the Rs 3,000 he received. He has kept aside some for further investments. “During the lockdown I was forced to take a loan of Rs 5,000 from a lender at an interest rate of 10 per cent. He has been after me for the money…. but how could I repay with no source of income till now?” Till Tuesday afternoon he had earned only Rs 20 unlike the pre-lockdown days when he used to make Rs 300 a day on average. “People are trickling in... at least I have been able to restart my business,” he said. The NGO has given donors the option of directly funding beneficiaries on its list, Dutta said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-304
16-09-2020||Calcutta||Building plan telecom terms||Developers building housing complexes, commercial buildings and offices in New Town have to provide details in building plans about space allotted to set up telecom and Internet infrastructure, an official of the New Town Kolkata Development Authority said. Builders have to specify where they want to keep space for mobile phone towers and power generating units, among others, in their building plans, the official said. This has been done as several communities in the township’s three action areas have reported low network areas or shadow areas. The problem is not limited not only to New Town. Several Calcuttans face the problem of sketchy network and low data speed. Several residents and housing communities across the city have fixed repeater access points and network boosters haphazardly in empty places without any prior planning, the NKDA official said. These boosters are often installed illegally, the official said. “Most residents who don’t get proper network coverage are using boosters… they buy them themselves or ask local technicians to do so. These devices are not fixed by service providers.” Vinita Agarwal, 34, who stays in New Town’s Action Area II, said she had to ask a local technician to fix a network booster because she barely got any network in her house and faced problems while working from home. “I have been working from home during the lockdown… and I have faced major network problems. For days I had no network and we called a technician who suggested we get a booster installed. When we asked him for one he suggested another man’s name… that person came and installed it the next day. I paid Rs 2,000. Now we have much better network and decent data speed,” Agarwal said. Debashis Sen, the NKDA chairman, said many people were working from homes and most students were studying online. This has brought to the fore the shortcomings of a weak network in New Town, he said. In order to identify shadow zones where the broadband reach is poor, the NKDA has decided to conduct a house-to-house survey. “The survey will be done quickly by a competent agency after an expression of interest. Special attention will be given by Hidco and NKDA to see how a Rapid Action Connection can be achieved by putting in additional resources. The places with poor Net connectivity is worrying. Several residents have complained to us,” Sen said. The building plans must have details of spaces allocated to set up telecom infrastructure in order to get the plans passed, he said. It will be made mandatory as are electrical and mechanical plans that include where space for AC units, ducts, fire pumps and various electrical utilities, he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-305
16-09-2020||Calcutta||Jadavpur University teacher dead||The former dean of arts at Jadavpur University, Subhasis Biswas, who had tested positive for Covid, died early on Tuesday. Biswas, 49, was admitted to a private hospital last Wednesday after he took ill at his home in Garfa. The history professor was put on a ventilator on Monday. Biswas’s tenure as dean ended in June 2019. In August 2018, he had resigned from the post of dean, head of the history department and convener of the admissions committee following complaints that many students who had scored 90 per cent or more in the Plus II board exams had been given 10 out of 100 or less in the university’s admissions test. Some of the prospective students had moved court. He had later withdrawn his resignation. After his tenure ended as dean, he continued as a professor in the history department.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-305
16-09-2020||Calcutta||‘Can’t be an IPS officer’, teen kills herself||A Class VII student is believed to have jumped off the top floor of an 11-storey building on Amherst Street, where she stayed with her parents in a fifth-floor flat, on Tuesday. A note found on her said she was upset because of her exam results and failure to become an IPS officer. She was only 13 and a police officer’s daughter. The one-page note said: “I didn’t get good marks though I studied hard cuz (because) all are the best. I am really happy that I am going to die…. But the saddest thing is this that I cannot be a (an) IPS officer.” The teenager’s class teacher said she was an “above average student” and did well in the online test held last week. She scored 20 out of 20 in geography, 19 out of 20 in English and history, and 17 out of 20 in science. The students had been told their marks, the school said. “She was friendly and active in extracurricular activities. It’s shocking that she decided to end her life,” an official of the school said. The only child of her parents, the girl wanted to become a police officer like her father, but of a higher grade. Her mother was home while her father was on duty when the girl killed herself. A man who was parking a scooter in the compound heard a loud thud behind him. As he turned around, he saw the girl lying in a pool of blood. Amherst Street police station, which is in the same compound, was alerted almost immediately. The girl’s mother told the police that her daughter was fiddling with her mobile phone minutes before she jumped to her death. “We have evidence that she jumped from the top floor,” said an officer.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-305
16-09-2020||Calcutta||Covid waste notice to 2 hospitals ||The state pollution control board has slapped showcause notices and imposed fines on two hospitals, AMRI Salt Lake and Satyabala ID hospital in Howrah, for flouting Covid waste management rules. “AMRI has been fined Rs 10 lakh, Satyabala hospital Rs 5 lakh, following an investigation by the board,” board chairman Kalyan Rudra said on Tuesday. The unit was inspected by West Bengal Pollution Control Board officials on August 17, the board said in its order. “During inspection, officials found yellow and red bags of biomedical waste in huge numbers stored in the open in a non-designated area…. This is a violation of the Bio Medical Waste (Management & Handling) Rules, 2016.” While yellow bags are supposed to contain infectious anatomical waste and medicines, red bags are meant for contaminated medical waste. Subsequently, the board ordered AMRI to “submit an EC (environmental compensation) of Rs 10 lakh within 10 days” from the date of issue of the board’s letter, which is August 28, 2020. A board official said the hospital had sought a waiver. A spokesperson for AMRI said the government-notified medical waste lifting agency was at fault because it did not clear the Covid medical waste within the stipulated time and that led to the dumping. “We have earlier communicated the problem to the PCB,” the spokesperson said. The hospital has set up a dedicated room to keep medical waste, including PPEs, he said. “They should have done it to start with as per the norms… they cannot pass the buck and blame the agency,”a public health expert said. Satyabala ID hospital, a government unit treating Covid patients, has been fined as it was found during inspection that the “unit has not installed ETP (effluent treatment plant) and was operating without the valid consent” to handle biomedical waste. Earlier people had complained against the hospital for scattering infectious medical waste and PPEs. “We are not in a position to invest in an ETP ourselves and we had referred the matter to higher authorities,” a hospital official said. “We have already sent a letter apologising to the PCB for the violation and promised that there would not be any repetition of such violation,” Bhabani Das, the chief medical officer of health, Howrah, said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-305
16-09-2020||Calcutta||Vikram charged for Sonika death||A city court on Tuesday framed charges against actor Vikram Chatterjee in connection with the death of model Sonika Singh Chauhan. One of the charges is culpable homicide not amounting to murder, which can lead to 10 years in jail. Among the other charges Vikram faces are drink driving and rash and negligent driving. The framing of charges has paved the way for the trial to begin. Vikram was at the wheel of his Toyota Corolla Altis when it crashed into the kerbside along Rashbehari Avenue early on April 29, 2017. Sonika, who police said was seated beside Vikram, died on the spot. The Indian Penal Code sections slapped on Vikram are 304(II), which deals with causing culpable homicide not amounting to murder with knowledge that it is likely to cause death but without intention; 279, which relates to rash driving; 338, which is relevant to causing grievous hurt by act endangering life or personal safety of others; and 427, which deals with mischief. Vikram has also been charged under Section 185 of the Motor Vehicles Act, which deals with drink driving. The court retained all the charges filed by the police. During the court proceedings, the public prosecutor had pressed for the charge of murder. Vikram’s lawyer Anirban Guha Thakurta had contested the plea saying the actor had no intention to kill “his friend” and, hence, could not be tried for murder. The court accepted Guha Thakurta’s plea and rejected the murder charge. Vikram is out on bail and has resumed his acting career. Clad in a white shirt, blue jeans and a black mask, he attended the court proceedings on Tuesday. Outside the court, when asked for his reaction, he refused to comment on the proceedings and said he had full faith in his team of lawyers. Sections under which actor Vikram Chatterjee will be tried:||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-305
16-09-2020||Calcutta||Three ‘beggars’ of Banjara gang in theft net||Three male members of the “Banjara gang” have been arrested in connection with multiple thefts across the city in the past month, police said. The male members of the gang engage their wife and children in cheating people and robbing homes in the guise of begging, the police said. The gang had been active in parts of Entally, Phoolbagan and Narkeldanga in the past few weeks. “But in Narkeldanga and Entally, the men themselves were involved… they had gone disguised as beggars,” an officer said. Cops started investigating two thefts in Narkeldanga and Entally last month when they came across CCTV footage that had the same set of male beggars present in the area where the thefts had been reported. The third case was reported in the Phoolbagan police station area. Gold ornaments, expensive utensils, laptops and other electronic devices had been reported stolen in all three locations. “A pattern was emerging. It became clear that the same gang was operating in all these locations,” a detective department officer said. A separate team comprising officers of the detective department’s anti-burglary squad was formed to track down the gang. Investigators got to know that a group of men had been camping on the Sealdah station premises for the past few weeks. Cops learnt that the men would usually send their wives and children to roam around the city and steal valuables from houses and shops whenever they could. Three men were arrested in the Sealdah station area, two of whom were spotted in the CCTV footage of the areas where the thefts had been reported. The police identified them as Shekhar Nag, Indra Singh and Khokon Singh. The station area was raided around 2am on September 12, an officer said. The gang was caught sleeping. There were many men and women and children but only the three were picked up because of the direct evidence, the officer said. Cops have seized gold and silver ornaments, laptops, mobile phones, a camera, and a mobile phone power bank from them. The gang keeps shifting from one place to another. Women with kids in their arms beg during the day. As a part of the modus operandi, women and children beg and steal and the men sell the stolen goods and run their families with the money, the police said. A few months ago, two women from a similar all-women gang had been arrested in Patuli. They had tried to steal valuables from a house in the guise of beggars with children in their arms. One of the women was pregnant, the police said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-305
16-09-2020||Calcutta||Durga Puja organisers tweak plans to abide by Mamata’s plea||Several Durga Puja organisers have decided to alter their structures to ensure pandals have a bigger space and air circulates freely, conditions that experts say hinder the spread of Covid-19. Throughout Tuesday some of the organisers met their artists and decorators to discuss ways to abide by the advisory issued by chief minister Mamata Banerjee on Monday. They discussed how to go about altering their pandals with less than 40 days to go till the Puja. Some organisers wondered whether the ceiling height of the pandal could be increased, while others pondered over how to build additional gates to ensure the air flow was not hindered. Organisers who have an open space to erect pandals — like Deshapriya Park and College Square — discussed multiple options, including increasing the overall square feet of the structure to have more space for less visitors. Those who have just a lane or a road to erect pandals — like Nalin Sarkar Street and Kalighat 64 Pally — were planning to suitably modify their themes in keeping with the advisory of the chief minister. Mamata had on Monday said Durga Puja pandals should be open on all sides so that there was free movement of air. “Durga Puja is a big challenge and in Bengal it is a national festival. Let the pandals be kept open so that there is circulation of air,” Mamata had said. “Open thakley hawa batash boibe (If it is open, air will flow). It is for precaution. To be safe.” By Tuesday evening, many of the organisers managed to firm up their alternative plans. “After a long discussion with our decorator we decided to do away with a thakur ghor from this year so that there is more space for air to circulate,” said Kajal Sarkar of Bosepukur Sitala Mandir Puja Committee. “If the chief minister wants so, we have to abide by it.” Some organisers, including Kalighat Milan Sangha and Maddox Square, have similar options. “We will have a space, measuring around 30 feet X10 feet, which will separate visitors from those who will be engaged in rituals in front of the idols. The ceiling height is also being increased. The idea is to have free circulation of air,” said Sandipan Banerjee of Behala Notun Dal puja committee. “There are several ways to tackle the challenge. The usual style of forcing visitors to take zig-zag turns to enter a pandal will have to be done away with,” said Biswanath Dey, a theme artist who is working with at least three big pujas in south Calcutta this time. “Installations before reaching the main idol will have to be removed and where the space is constricted, adjoining houses and buildings can be made to look like a part of the overall concept.” In July, the Forum for Durgostav, an umbrella organisation of about 350 pujas in Calcutta, had agreed on a 17-point code on how to organise the Puja amid all restrictions. One of the codes was that pandals would be constructed in a way so one could see the idol even from a distance. “After the chief minister’s appeal, we have asked all our members to find ways so that air circulation is not hindered in a pandal,” said Saswata Basu, the secretary of Hatibagan Sarbojonin Durgostav Committee and also secretary of the forum. The chief minister is scheduled to meet Puja organisers on September 25.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-305
16-09-2020||Calcutta||Reopen rider for schools||Education minister Partha Chatterjee said on Tuesday the government was in no position to tell when schools and colleges could resume in-person classes, given the spread of Covid. On the sidelines of a programme in Behala, where a reporter asked him about the state government’s plans to resume on-campus classes, Chatterjee said: “The schools and colleges will reopen only when the situation becomes normal. As of now, the institutions are closed till September 30. How can you even ask when schools will reopen? Covid cases are still increasing rapidly…. I have no idea how you can open schools now.” The global advisory committee on Covid that the state government has set up is concerned about the situation, Chatterjee said. That committee, helmed by Nobel laureate Abhijit Vinayak Banerjee, is helping the state formulate strategies to minimise the impact of the pandemic on the economy, said an official of the education department. The Centre’s guidelines allow students of Classes IX to XII to go to school to consult teachers from September 21 with written consent from parents. But a senior state government official said on Tuesday evening: “We have not taken any decision on that yet.” Bengal on Tuesday reported 3,227 Covid-19 cases, 59 deaths and 2,996 recoveries. The total number of cases is over 2.09 lakh. In all, Bengal has had 4,062 Covid deaths till Tuesday. After a 15-day streak of a fall in the number of active cases, which ended on September 8, the state has seen a rise in count for eight consecutive days. The state government’s focus will be on reaching education to students in the absence of in-person classes, the minister said. “There is a need to ensure that studies continue and they are taken within the reach (of students). We will see to it…. If there is a rethink after September 30, we will see,” said Chatterjee. Chief minister Mamata Banerjee had on July 28 said the state government had set a target to reopen the institutions from September 5 on alternate days if the situation allowed. The plan was not pursued as the situation did not improve.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-305
16-09-2020||Calcutta||Tiger claims third victim in four days||A fisherman who was part of a team that had ventured inside the Sunderbans forests to catch crabs died after being attacked by a tiger while he was cooking on the bank of a creek on Sunday morning, a forest official said. This was the third death from tiger attack in the Sunderbans in four days. The official said Gopal Baidya, 57, and two other men had left Satjelia village in the Gosaba block, South 24-Parganas, on a small country boat to catch crabs in the narrow creeks of the mangrove delta. Baidya was killed by the tiger in the Jhila 6 forest. Two other men lost their lives in the same forest area after being mauled by tigers on Thursday and Friday. Forest department officials said the body of Baidya could not be recovered as the tiger had dragged him deep inside the mangroves. “The tiger attacked Baidya from behind. The other fishermen tried to scare the animal off but it dragged Baidya deep inside the forest,” an official said. V.K. Yadav, the chief wildlife warden of Bengal, said: "We are tracking the developments closely and taking all measures. Fishermen have been alerted and we always ask them not to get off their boats and step on banks or embankments,” said Yadav. The Sunderbans field director, Tapas Das, said the men, like others, had ventured into a narrow creek to catch crabs. According to Das, the forest department carries out regular awareness drives and requests those venturing out into the forest not to catch fish or crabs in the creeks as the tigers can easily swim across and attack them. “The creeks offer more in terms of catch but fishing or trapping crabs there is extremely risky,” said Das.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-305
