17-09-2020||Calcutta||Final-year MBBS student found dead||A final-year MBBS student was found hanging inside his room in the main hostel of Calcutta National Medical College and Hospital on Wednesday morning. Dibyendu Sardar, 24, appeared to have hanged himself from the ceiling fan using a bed sheet, an officer of Beniapukur police station investigating the matter said. The body has been sent for post-mortem. No suicide note has been found, the officer said. Some students from his batch have told cops that he had been keeping to himself of late. He apparently did not want to step out of his room on the top floor of the five-storey boys hostel on Beniapukur Road. Around 8am, some of his friends went to his room and found it locked from inside. After waiting for a while when repeated knocks went unanswered, some junior doctors alerted the police around 9am. “We entered the room and found him hanging,” an officer said. “Doctors said he had passed away a while ago.” A resident of Bairagipara in Gosaba in South 24-Parganas, the student had visited his parents recently following the death of a close relative. Some of his friends have said he had not been speaking much after returning from home, the police said. He had apparently told a few close friends that he was unable to come to terms with the untimely death of this relative. These friends had tried to counsel him. They had told him that he would be a registered practitioner after clearing the final exams in a few months. After doctors at the hospital confirmed his death, cops alerted his father Jagadish Sardar and asked him to reach Calcutta.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-303
17-09-2020||Calcutta||Akshar students’ call to connect over Covid newsletter||Students of a city school have started an e-newsletter to talk about their times “as they remain stuck inside” homes because of the pandemic. The newsletter, Covid Chronicles, is an initiative of the students of Akshar school. They recently launched it over a webinar. Indira Biswas, a Class IX student, has penned her experience from the US where she went in February. She did not know that the “one-month holiday would turn into a six-month quarantine”. Indira, still stuck in New Jersey, lost her aunt during this period with whom she had been staying and the teenager has written how “the deadly virus had come” to them. Not only students but also a radiologist working in the city, Ambar Kumar Gupta, has written about doctors working during the pandemic. “... for once I am in my gear, the few patients who are coming to the hospital and need my examination keep me busy. In full gear I can hardly hear myself.” The school said the newsletter would give students an opportunity to channelise their energy and free time and do something positive while they remain at home. “Children are not happy with what is happening and channelising their creativity helps create positive vibes. It’s also a way to collaborate with other students despite not going to school,” Jayanti Neogi, a political science teacher at the school, said. Covid Chronicles is an initiative of the school’s literary and political science clubs. “We have extra time being stuck at home… it will give students a platform to express themselves. There is so much that students want to say and articulate during the pandemic,” Antara Dasgupta, a Class XII student, said. She is in the editorial team with classmate Rishita Chatterjee. The group has been hosting webinars, too. The latest was on Women in Power and how they want fundamental human rights. At the launch, the students invited former student Pranav Balakrishnan, a practising doctor working at a private hospital in the city as the Covid coordinator, along with radiologist Gupta. They asked them questions about the pandemic and the precautions one should take. If masks will be a companion forever, Balakrishnan said wearing a mask is a courtesy one is doing to others. “The most important thing is understanding.... It is a courtesy you are doing to people around you and you are hoping they will do the same courtesy to you,” he said. “You are preventing droplets; if you are infected it’s preventing them from getting released into the near surroundings and that’s why we probably should continue until we have a believable cure or a vaccine against this disease.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-303
17-09-2020||Calcutta||CU declares final-year exam schedule||Calcutta University has announced the final year final semester exam schedule for undergraduate courses. The university uploaded the schedule on Wednesday on its website, www.caluniv.ac.in, detailing when the theory and practical exams will be held. Students of BA, BSc, and BCom Part III Honours will have theory exams from October 1 to 8. BCom honours students under the choice based credit system (CBCS) will have theory exams from October 5 to 8. BBA Part III Honours students will have theory exams from October 1 to 9. Colleges will conduct the practicals for BSc students (except for those who have take the exams before the pandemic and their marks have already been uploaded) anytime between October 1 and 14. Colleges will conduct project work and viva voce exams for BCom Part III Honours students and those under the CBCS system anytime between October 1 and 14 with the help of internal examiners only for this year, the notice on the university website says.Since pen-and-paper tests cannot be conducted this year and students will take the exams from their homes, the university will email question papers to colleges. And colleges will email or WhatsApp the papers to students at the start of the exam. Students will have to email or WhatsApp their answer script in PDF format to their colleges within 24 hours of receiving the question paper, vice-chancellor Sonali Chakravarti Banerjee had recently said. In case any student is unable to manage a smart device or unable to upload the answer script because of poor Net connectivity, he/she will have to submit a hardcopy of the answer script in a sealed envelope to his/her college within 24 hours, a university official said. “A large number of students live in remote areas. Many are from the Sunderbans where Net connectivity has been severely disrupted in the aftermath of Cyclone Amphan,” Jaydeep Sarangi, the principal of New Alipore College, said. “The university should spell out clearly and share details with colleges so that no student is left out for want of Net connectivity.” Colleges have been requested to upload the question papers on their websites as well, a university official said. The schedule was prepared after the UGC last week approved the state government’s proposal that state universities be allowed to hold the final year exams from October 1  to 18.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-303
17-09-2020||Calcutta||Post-Sunday respite from heat on radar||Hot, humid and not as rainy as it should be, September has so far been uncomfortable for Calcuttans. There is no respite in sight till Sunday, by when the Met office expects a low-pressure to reach the Bay of Bengal and trigger steady rain in south Bengal, including Calcutta, over the next couple of days. The city is gradually taking strides towards normality in the backdrop of the pandemic and people stepping out for work are having to cope with sultry and sweaty conditions. The Celsius and moisture content have been on the higher side for several days now. Some parts of the city have seen occasional showers. But the rain has been scattered and triggered by local cloud formation. The showers were far too little to bring down the temperature. If anything, they made conditions more sweaty and increased the discomfort level. On Wednesday, the minimum relative humidity — the measure of the moisture content in the air during the driest part of the day — was a whopping 61 per cent. The effect — the temperature was around 33 degrees around 1.30pm but the RealFeel was 42 degrees. “A bus ride wearing a mask is almost unbearable. As soon as I got down, I bought a bottle of water, removed the mask and splashed the water on my face,” said Chandan Roy, a sales professional with a share trading firm who boarded a bus from Dunlop to Esplanade on Wednesday afternoon. Dark clouds started gathering over the city in the afternoon, prompting expectations of a round of sharp rain. But it was not to be. September is usually sultry but not without a spell or two of heavy rain. This year, there has been none so far. The city has received stray showers. The volume of rain so far in Calcutta has been around 100mm, compared with the usual half-way quota of 160mm, said a Met official. The monsoon trough is also stationed over Andhra Pradesh because of a low-pressure area in the southern state. The trough is too far from Calcutta to have an impact, said the official. The conditions are expected to change from Sunday, the Met office has said. “A cyclone currently positioned over the northwest Pacific is expected to reach northeast Bay of Bengal, via Vietnam, Thailand and Myanamar, around Sunday. But it is expected to lose strength and become a low-pressure system by the time it reaches the northeast Bay. From Monday, it is expected to move towards Gangetic Bengal,” said a Met official. The system is expected to trigger steady rain across south Bengal. A heavy spell in Calcutta is not ruled out. The system is also tipped to bring down the temperature from Sunday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-303
17-09-2020||Calcutta||Snarl solution: widen 500m of Jessore Road ||A 500-metre stretch of Jessore Road ahead of and after the Belghoria Expressway flyover will be widened to ease traffic flow in the airport area, an officer of the Bidhannagar commissionerate said on Wednesday. Also, a new gate will be built on Jessore Road, about 200m from the airport Gate No. 2.5, to minimise traffic snarls in the area, the officer said. The new gate will be wider than the 2.5 one so that more vehicles can pass through it, he said. The T-junction at Gate No. 2.5 gets choked the moment there is a heavy rush of vehicles, Sandipan Guha, a resident of Dum Dum who drives down the road regularly, said. Many people now enter the airport complex through the flyover instead of going through the chaos on the slip road. They take the road in front of Airport police station to reach Gate No. 2.5 from the opposite end and add to the congestion there, an officer said. Metro had on September 9 reported how vehicles crawl on Belghoria Expressway, Jessore Road and the airport’s slip road during rush hour because of a heavy traffic flow and innumerable potholes. Vehicles, including two-wheelers, headed to the city from Barasat, Dakshineswar, and Madhyamgram via Jessore Road or going to these places from the city are caught in traffic snarls that add more than 45 minutes to their travel time. The new gate will help in quicker dispersal of vehicles headed for the VIP Road from Belghoria Expressway as well as from Madhyamgram and Barasat. Once the gate is completed, motorists and two-wheeler riders can turn left and get on the airport road from the base of the flyover, an officer in the commissionerate said. Now, vehicles headed for the VIP Road from these places have to travel around 200m before they can turn left and get on the airport road from Gate No. 2.5. A joint inspection of the area was carried out by officials from the public works department, the Barasat highway division, and the Dum Dum Municipality, apart from representatives of the National Highway Authority of India and the Airports Authority of India. This was done to ensure better coordination among all agencies during the widening of the road, the police said. The new traffic plan is expected to ease snarls and “drastically cut” travel time, Dhritiman Sarkar, the deputy commissioner, traffic, of the Bidhannagar commissionerate, said. “We have conducted a detailed study… we are positive that this plan will work best for the region for now.” The airport’s outer compound wall will be broken to create the new gate that will give vehicles headed from the expressway access to the slip road without having to move till Gate No. 2.5, a PWD engineer who was part of the inspecting team said. Additionally, a 500m-long elevated storm water drain will be removed from near the approach to Gate No. 2.5. A new one will be created further back, the engineer said. A civic official from the Dum Dum Municipality said the proposal had been accepted and that a detailed survey would be carried out to shift the drain.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-303
17-09-2020||Calcutta||Police to monitor Covid norm for tarpan||A team of police officers will be deployed at each of the 37 Hooghly ghats from early on Thursday to ensure social distancing is followed when visitors turn up to perform the ritual of tarpan on the occasion of Mahalaya. Each team will be split into two — one will make continuous announcements from loudhailers spreading awareness about the need to maintain distancing amid the Covid pandemic and the other will try and restrict the number of visitors to the ghat. “Masks will be mandatory for all visitors,” an officer said. Tarpan is a ritual of offering water and sesame seeds to departed ancestors and is performed on Mahalaya, at the end of Pitri Paksha. Every year, lakhs of people turn up at the ghats along the Hooghly to perform the ritual. “Elaborate arrangements have been made to ensure the social distancing norm is followed. Teams from the disaster management group will be deployed at the ghats. There will be nets in some of the bigger ghats to ensure visitors don’t stray further into the water while taking a dip,” said Syed Waquar Raza, deputy commissioner of police, Port division. “We will try and ensure that the assembly is restricted on the main roads and not the ghats, where people will perform tarpan.” River traffic police teams will move up and down the Hooghly on speed boats, keeping an eye on people offering tarpan. Senior officers of the rank of assistant commissioner of police will oversee the arrangements at ghats while being in constant touch with the control room at the police headquarters in Lalbazar. Babughat will have the biggest deployment of forces among all 37 ghats, officers said. Guard rails and ropes have been sent to all ghats to restrict vehicles in the event of a surge in the number of visitors. By late Wednesday evening, several priests had reached Babughat and its adjoining areas, police said, with many deciding to spend the night on railway platforms at BBD Bag, Prinsep Ghat and other stations of Circular Railway. “We are not expecting the usual turnout because of the pandemic. So barring Strand Road, there is no specific traffic restriction,” a senior police officer said. “This time there won’t be trucks carrying idols to pandals. So, we have decided that restrictions will be imposed if there is a big gathering around a particular ghat. All traffic guards have been asked to inform the control room if there is a crowd surge.” Mahalaya marks the countdown to Durga Puja, which usually starts a week later. This year, however, the Puja begins on October 22.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-303
17-09-2020||Calcutta||Website for Durga pujas of the world||A website was launched at Sovabazar Rajbari on Wednesday that promises to bring together Durga pujas in the city and the districts, outside the state and even outside the country. “DurgaFest.com will be a global digital aggregator of Durga puja. We are inviting all pujas to join us and archive their images year on year. So while it serves its immediate purpose by giving home-bound people amid the Covid pandemic a glimpse of this year’s Puja, it will also have a long-term use,” said Shreyasi Paul, a co-founder of the website. The website has been divided into zones of the city, rest of Bengal, rest of India, abroad and aristocratic households. “We have already tied up with over 200 pujas. More are in the pipeline,” Paul said. Work on the website started when Covid was just breaking out in India. “Since the World Health Organisation was forecasting a long haul before the virus would recede, we started planning ahead for Puja,” Paul said. Minister Shashi Panja, the chief guest at the inauguration, said: “When they came up with the idea, I encouraged them thinking that this would be helpful not just for those in the city not venturing out this year but also those who are stuck away from Bengal. I have asked them to provide recordings of each important ritual as a highlight package on a daily basis so that people do not miss the festivity.” “We have little idea or record of how Durga puja was 100 years ago. But such a website will leave a digital footprint of how Durga puja was celebrated, for instance, in the year of the pandemic. They are also accepting older pictures of the respective pujas to archive,” said Debashis Sen, the chairman-cum-managing director of the Housing & Infrastructure Development Corporation, which is supporting the initiative. The DurgaFest.com team also plans to include an account from each organiser of how this year’s puja will be different from other years. Visitors can even rate the puja on the basis of the information and the visuals provided. “This year, it will not be possible to allow visitors into the house. So we will encourage people to watch our puja on electronic and satellite media which will get restricted access,” said Debasish Krishna Deb, a member of the Sovabazar Rajbari, where the launch took place. Nine special covers will be released on each day of Navratri, from October 17 to 25, by the department of posts, West Bengal circle, to commemorate nine manifestations of Durga. The Forum for Durgostav, an umbrella organisation of over 300 Puja committees in Calcutta, will give Rs 4,000 each to 65 artisans in Kumartuli on Thursday to help them tide over the financial crisis resulting from lack of enough orders for idols.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-303
17-09-2020||Calcutta||Non-chartered foreign flight lands in city ||The first non-chartered international flight since the Bengal government lifted restrictions landed in and took off from Calcutta on Wednesday. The government had imposed the curbs as a precaution against Covid. The Emirates airline flight from Dubai arrived with 179 passengers in the morning under an air-transport-bubble arrangement, said airport officials. It took off for Dubai with 110 passengers. The state government had given a no-objection certificate for the flight a week before. Several airlines are applying for no-objection certificates to operate flights under air transport-bubble arrangements (temporary arrangements between two countries to restart commercial passenger flights because regular flights are suspended). SpiceJet will operate a flight between Calcutta and Dubai on Thursday, an official said. The airline has several other flights on the route planned for this month. Emirates has planned at last two more Dubai-Calcutta flights this month. Airport sources said IndiGo was planning to operate a flight to and from Singapore in the last week of September. Air India's first of the several Calcutta-London direct flights under the Vande Bharat evacuation programme is scheduled for Thursday. In July, the Bengal government had asked the civil aviation ministry to stop evacuation flights from international destinations after hundreds of passengers refused to go to a paid quarantine centre after landing in Calcutta and went home instead. Any flight from abroad needs a no-objection certificate from the state government. Later, the government eased the restrictions and allowed chartered flights from abroad to arrive in Calcutta. Earlier this month, the state government, following appeals from airlines and travel operators, started giving approvals for evacuation as well as air-transport-bubble flights. The 179 passengers who arrived in Calcutta on the Emirates flight had tested negative for Covid-19 within 96 hours before the journey. “All arriving passengers will have to undergo home quarantine for 14 days,” said an airport official. Those boarding the Dubai-bound flight from Calcutta got their tests done, too. The Boeing 777 aircraft that Emirates operated can carry 360 passengers but India’s directorate general of civil aviation has restricted the number of passengers to 225. SpiceJet has a good number of bookings for its Calcutta-Dubai flight, officials said. “Already, we have 182 passengers booked from Dubai and 135 from Calcutta for Thursday’s flight. We have got the NOC from the state government. More flights to Dubai are scheduled for September 24 and 26,” said Debjit Ghosh, sales head (east), SpiceJet. Tour operators said they were having good bookings for the flights. "Mostly people who want to join work and students are booking seats," said Anil Punjabi, chairman, east, Travel Agents Federation of India.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-303
17-09-2020||Calcutta||Move to calm frayed nerves||Forest department officials have held meetings with panchayat pradhans, members of joint forest management committee members and villagers from the Sunderbans and asked them not to harm tigers if they spot one. Tempers are frayed in the region after three men got killed in tiger attacks in the Jhila forest area. Anger is simmering as villagers and fishermen believe a single tiger has been attacking them, a forest official said. Villagers have asked forest officials to “do something” about the tiger, the official said. Forest officials have told representatives of fishermen and villagers that all the three men who had been attacked had moored their boats and were on the banks of the muddy creeks, either laying crab nets or cooking. “We told them not to get off of their boats. Fishermen are not allowed nor are they supposed to go anywhere near the creeks or channels in the Sunderbans,” an official said. Thousands who hail from the Sunderbans have lost their jobs because of the pandemic and have returned to their villages. But farms and ponds inundated were left with saline water in the aftermath of Cyclone Amphan. A large number of villagers have been venturing deep into tiger territory to catch crabs and fish. Some fishermen have told the forest officials at the meeting: “It is our right to fish wherever there is water.” The idea can set a dangerous precedent to man-animal conflict in the region, an official said. The Sunderbans tiger reserve field director Tapas Das said forest officials had asked villagers who go out to fish not to get off their boats and lay nets on the banks of creeks to catch crabs or cook food. “They are not supposed to enter narrow creeks. We have asked them not to enter them at any cost.” The lure of crabs is a strong pull as earnings are higher than fishing, another forest official said. Tigers in the Sunderbans region face multiple difficulties while hunting their regular prey that includes deer and wild boar among others because of the muddy terrain and exposed roots of mangroves that act like thorns and prick their paws, Das said. “Humans are easier to attack and more so when somebody moors the boat and gets on land. We asked the village heads to ensure this is stopped,” he said. The forest department is thinking of imparting vocational training and setting up poultry farms and small fishery projects as a means of alternative livelihood for fishermen. Apart from the meeting, the forest department has started boat patrols near the Jhila forest and daily 10 boats carrying forest officials and villagers have been patrolling the channels and creeks along Jhila 2, Jhila 4 and Jhila 6 forests. In Jhila 6, a 57-year-old man was killed by a tiger while preparing lunch. Two other fishermen were killed on September 3 and 4.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-303
17-09-2020||Calcutta||Covid victim body to be handed to kin: Calcutta High Court||The high court on Wednesday directed the state government to hand over bodies of Covid victims to their nearest kin so they can perform the last rites. The division bench of Chief Justice T.B.N. Radhakrishnan and Justice Arijit Banerjee framed guidelines after considering the Centre’s norms for cremation of bodies of Covid victims by family members. The order says: “When post-mortem of the dead body is not required, the dead body shall be handed over to the immediate next of kin of the deceased, that is the parents/ surviving spouse/ children, after completion of hospital formalities. “The body should be secured in a bag, the face and end of which should be preferably transparent and exterior of which will be appropriately sanitised so as to eliminate/ minimise the risk to the people transporting the dead body.” Family members and acquaintances will accompany the body to the crematorium/burial ground straight from the hospital. According to the court’s guidelines, the face and end of the bodybag “may be unzip-ped by a staff at the crematorium or burial ground to allow the relatives to see the body for the last time. At this time, religious rituals, such as reading from religious groups, sprinkling of holy water, offering grains and other last rites that do not require touching of the body should be allowed.” If a family does not claim a body, the government will have the right to cremate it, the court said. According to previous norms, the family could come to the hospital and have a last look at the body during a 30-minute window. The body wrapper is transparent in the upper part, which makes the face visible. Two family members can go to the crematorium or burial ground but that rarely happens since the immediate family is mostly in quarantine, a Calcutta Mu-nicipal Corporation official said. In the early stages of the pandemic, families were not allowed to see the bodies. The petitioner in the case, Vineet Ruia, had alleged that the government was not handing over the bodies to family members “only to suppress the figure of total deaths from the disease”. The state government has yet to decide whether they will challenge the high court’s judgment in the Supreme Court. “We are yet to receive any instruction from the state health department whether to challenge the order,” a senior government lawyer said in the evening.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-304
17-09-2020||Calcutta||ICSE council rethink after Bengal government stand||The Council for Indian School Certificate Examinations (CISCE) has notified its schools on partial reopening for students seeking guidance with parental consent from September 21 but the council may reconsider the approach in Bengal after the state government said schools should stay shut at least till September 30. The CISCE on Wednesday sent the schools the notification on the partial reopening and suggested that the time be utilised to make up for lost classes on “project” and “practical” work. On the same day, the Bengal government said that schools in the state would not reopen at least till September 30. Gerry Arathoon, the council chief executive and secretary, told Metro on Wednesday evening: “We will soon hold a meeting (to discuss Bengal).” A fresh notification may be “issued in a day or two” specifically for Bengal. “It is not possible for students who will appear in the ICSE and ISC exams next year to do practical work at home. So, when the ministry of home affairs issued the guidelines, we decided to enable students to do some practice in practical work,” Arathoon said. The Union home ministry had issued guidelines last month saying students from Classes IX to XII could be permitted to visit school from September 21 with written consent from guardians to take guidance from teachers. Earlier in the day, Bengal education minister Partha Chatterjee told this newspaper that all educational institutions in the state would be kept closed at least till September 30, as announced by the state government. “I am not aware about the ICSE council’s decision…. Our government had announced that all educational institutions in the state will remain closed till September 30. There is no change in the decision,” Chatterjee said. On Tuesday, Chatterjee had said the state government was in no position to tell when schools and colleges could resume in-person classes, given the spread of Covid. The council in its notification has advised the schools to enable students, particularly those appearing in the Class X and XII board exams, to do practical on prescribed topics in school laboratories as the “hands on” practical work could not be performed earlier because of the pandemic and the lockdown. “Hands-on practical work could not be carried out earlier... The schools are advised to utilise this period to perform sufficient practical work in the laboratories, as per the topics mentioned in the reduced syllabus. Thereafter, some of the practical work may be graded and the marks recorded,” the notification says. The schools have also been advised by the CISCE to utilise the partial reopening to complete project work and ensure the projects are submitted to the subject teachers by a deadline. The notifications advised  “affiliated schools to perform the following activities: Completion of the project work…. Practice and completion of practical work”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-304
17-09-2020||Calcutta||Durga Puja Covid duty plan for doctors||Puja holidays are likely to be scrapped for doctors and other employees at several of Calcutta’s private hospitals in order to be prepared if the festival season records a spike in Covid-19 cases. Usually, private hospitals in the city operate with around 40 per cent staff during Durga Puja, extending till Lakshmi Puja. Many doctors go on a holiday during the period. Officials of several private hospitals said this time they were planning to ask all doctors, nurses, paramedics and other employees not to take leave for the entire festive season. On Thursday, Bengal reported 3,237 Covid-19 cases. The number of cases till Thursday in the state touched 2,12,383. Many private hospitals fear it would be a challenge to run hospitals like now during the Puja but their big hope is that most senior doctors would not go on a holiday because of safety issues and uncertainty over international flights. Peerless Hospital this week sent a communication to all employees, appealing to them not to take leave during the Puja. The AMRI Hospitals authorities held a meeting with senior officials recently, asking them to be on duty for the entire festival week. Others are trying to prepare rosters for the Puja with as many healthcare personnel as possible. For the past several years, most private hospitals had 50 per cent occupancy during the festive period. Mostly emergency patients, including accident victims, would be admitted during the period. Planned surgeries and procedures are not scheduled for the festive month as most doctors are not available and patients, too, want to enjoy the festive spirit without the worry of visiting hospital. Most hospitals keep their outpatient departments closed from Saptami till Lakshmi Puja. But the Covid-19 pandemic has changed everything. “Earlier, during the Puja, we would have less than 200 patients, This time, of the 350 beds, 150 have been reserved for Covid patients. On Thursday, all Covid beds were occupied,” said Sudipta Mitra, the chief executive of Peerless Hospital. The hospital has appealed to its 2,000-odd employees, including doctors on the payroll and 150 consultants, not to take leave during the Puja. “We are fearing Covid-19 patients would need admission even during the Puja and we need to be prepared for that. Managing 200 patients in the pre-Covid times and treating 150 Covid patients are different,” Mitra said. One of the biggest problems is having separate teams of doctors, nurses and other personnel for Covid and non-Covid wards. “Even those washing linens cannot be spared. For Covid beds, fresh linens are needed every day to control infection,” he said. “We have held a meeting with officials and they have agreed to be on duty during the Puja. Now, we have to speak to the doctors and request them to be available during the festive period because of the pandemic,” said Rupak Barua, group CEO, AMRI Hospitals. The hospital’s Salt lake unit is now a Covid treatment centre. The Narayana Health group, which runs the RN Tagore International Institute of Cardiac Sciences and two hospitals in Howrah, keeps its OPDs closed on the festive days. But this time they are planning to keep them open. “It is our endeavour to keep our OPDs and fever clinics open and perform planned procedures/ surgeries, apart from emergency services during the Puja. We will meet our doctors, nurses and support service team…” said R. Venkatesh, director, eastern region, Narayana Health. The CEO of a hospital said it would be difficult to keep the nurses from Bengal on duty during the festive season. Others are concerned, too. “It will be tough to prepare the Puja roster keeping all operations like other times of the year, as well as giving leave to people,” said Pradip Tondon, CEO, Belle Vue Clinic. But officials of many hospitals said they were banking on the possibility that most senior doctors would be reluctant to go on a holiday during the festive period because of the Covid scare and uncertainty over international flights. “I had plans to visit my daughter in the UK during the Puja. But now there is no question of going,” said surgical oncologist Gautam Mukhopadhyay.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-304
17-09-2020||Calcutta||Low-key Vishwakarma Puja looms||The puja that heralds autumn festivities in Calcutta’s calendar has taken a hit. Some organisers have cancelled Thursday’s Vishwakarma Puja, while the ones going ahead with the puja have planned to keep the affairs low key, bereft of the pomp of previous years. Lack of cash is the main reason but concerns about large gatherings amid the Covid pandemic have also made some organisers scrap the usual mutton-rice feast and only stick to the rituals. Arjun Singh, a real estate developer, used to organise a feast for 600 people on the occasion of Vishwakarma Puja at his office. His friends, business competitors and many others would be invited to the feast. This year only his employees and the masons who work for him have been invited. “Real estate sales have slumped badly. I had paid my employees over the past six months though my income was very low. How could I have organised Vishwakarma Puja on the same scale as previous years?” Singh asked. Harideb Sarkar, who runs a unit that manufactures iron grilles and wrought iron beds, has not invited anyone other than his employees and their families to the puja at his factory. “Orders from new flats have reduced significantly and it is no longer possible to spend lavishly on puja,” he said. With businesses reeling under the slump that set in with the Covid pandemic, cutting costs has become an essential survival tactic. For Vishwakarma Pujas organised by transport unions, subscription rates have been reduced as both employees and owners are taking less money back home, transport workers said. The union of autorickshaws that ply between Garia and Gariahat is known for organising a fairly big Vishwakarma Puja. Till last year, over 1,600 people used to be fed over two days on the occasion. On the puja day, bhog would be distributed. The second day was reserved for a “non-veg feast”. This year the second day’s feast has been cancelled. “An autorickshaw driver used to take home Rs 500 daily. That has now come down to Rs 200. The income of vehicle owners has dipped, too,” said Debraj Ghosh, a union leader. The union has lowered the subscription from Rs 101 to Rs 51 for auto owners and from Rs 31 to Rs 21 for drivers. Indologist Nrisinghaprasad Bhaduri said no instance of the puja of Lord Vishwakarma could be found in the Vedas or the Puranas. The festival seems a more recent phenomenon, which followed the advent of industries set up by the British. “Vishwakarma Puja is more or less organised on September 17. This practice of organising the puja on a particular date of the calendar the British follows creates a suspicion that the occasion was aimed at granting masons, carpenters and other workers a day of celebration,” he said. Vishwakarma Puja has a social aspect as well. It is one festival where employers never shy away from funding a festivity to be enjoyed mostly by employees. “The employer comes for the puja, stays with employees for some time and then leaves. The employees immerse themselves in the freedom of the carnival. The employer does not stay for long but will never refuse to fund. This has been the culture of Vishwakarma Puja over the years,” Bhaduri said.  The decline of industry in Bengal came as a big blow to Viswakarma, the god of craftsmen. Artisans at Kumartuli have received orders for small idols from many of their old customers who bought taller idols in previous years. Gouranga Pal could sell seven large idols, which are 9ft tall, till Wednesday evening, a pale figure compared with last year when he sold as many as 20 such idols. Realtor Vivek Ruia said more than the money, he was worried about a large assembly on his premises. Usually, he has around 250 guests but not this time. From a gala at a building site, it is now a small ritual inside an office.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-304
