18-09-2020||Calcutta||Teachers Day tributes go online||Our way of life has been turned on its head by the pandemic, but that has not stopped schools from celebrating special occasions. Several schools went online to pay tribute to teachers on September 5.Salt Lake School Salt Lake School celebrated Teachers Day by posting two videos on their social media sites where the students are seen dancing, reciting and singing to say thank you to the teachers. The first video is more than 40 minutes long where students from pre-primary 1 till Class IV of the primary section are seen performing. Supreetha Chowdhury of Class III starts the celebration singing guruvandana, followed by Suhana Kar and Prayas Paul of PP1 singing a rhyme to thank their teachers. Kairavi Chowdhury, Anumegha Saha, Naisha Dey, Aaditri Sen and Tiyasha Saha of PP2 were seen pairing white hair bands with their white dresses as they danced to Lakri ki kathi, the favourite ditty of children from the film Masoom. “I missed my friends but learning from a video clip was also fun. I got to play the video and dance whenever I wanted and I also got a new dress,” smiled five year old Aaditri Sen. “Learning from online videos and recording were not new to her as for the last few months she has been taking dance classes online. But managing our office work and making her practice was a bit difficult. Teachers helped a lot. We did not have a white dress so we had to go to a market to buy it. Luckily the shop was not crowded,” added Aaditri’s mother Sayantani Ghosh. Students of Class I danced to the tune of Bam bam bole from Taare Zameen Par in orange tops and yellow bottoms  while Class II students in jeans and top danced to Galti se mistake from the film Jagga Jasoos.  Class III came together in The Gummy Bear Song while students of Class IV danced to show their love for their teachers with the song Teacher ko pyar by Swara Oza. “I enjoy dancing and love this song. This was my first digital performance. My mother helped me with the practice but I really missed my friends and teachers. My video was selected on the first attempt and everyone said they really enjoyed it,” said Sannidhyi Paul of Class II. “After the Independence Day celebration at our school, our principal wanted us to do something for Teachers Day and include the primary section students too. We coordinated with the class teachers and asked students to send small performances. Then we guided them through video calls on what to wear and what background to keep after sending them video clips to practise to.  Guiding students digitally is a bit difficult but now they are also getting used to this. We had huge support from the parents they tried their best to organise everything that I asked of them,” said Sreemoyee Kaushiki Basak, the dance coordinator. Tushit Bhattacharya of Class III chose to wear the school uniform while reciting a poem in English thanking the teachers while Shrestha Ghosh, Madhusha Dutta and Reshmi Pahar of Class I chose blue, orange and pink dresses as they performed to the Tagore song Momo chitte. The primary section video ended with Rohan Das of Class III singing Ruk jana nahin, the evergreen Kishore Kumar number from the film Imtihaan, from the lawn of his house. The video posted by the secondary section runs for an hour and 15 minutes as they tried to include as many performances possible to wish their teachers. Swarnadeep Misra, Avik Mondol, Meghdoot Chakrabarti, Jeetu Chowdhury and Sourjavo Chakraborty of Class IX came together to perform Kholo kholo darwaza from Taare Zameen Par. The five students have formed a band named Black Rhythm a few weeks ago and started rehearsing for their performance. “It was difficult to prepare everything digitally but we tried our best. We only got to meet through video calls and chats.  We recorded the tracks separately and I edited the video later. This was our first attempt and I am not an experienced editor. So there is scope for us to improve in future as we plan to perform as a band,” said Sourjavo, the band’s percussionist. A tabla player training under Pt. Anindo Chatterjee, Sourjavo loves to try new things. “This time, I tried Cajon, which is a box-shaped Latin American instrument. I heard about it last year and being a percussionist, I easily picked up the style of playing cajon. I love this instrument because it is a short form of drums and very compact,” he smiled. Recitation was also a popular choice among students.  Class IX students Rishabh Bagchi and Aagnik Sengupta chose to recite Bengali poems. Rishab recited Bangla tangla by Apurba Dutta while Aagnik Sengupta performed Bangla ta thik ashe na by Bhabani Prasad Majumdar. “Recitation is my hobby. I have been doing this for the last eight years, and now it has become a habit. Though now I cannot go for classes, every day I try to keep some time to practise recitation. I thought this poem will go with the celebration and I had it ready too,” said Aagnik. Students gave dance performances to several songs, mainly Rabindrasangeet, like Moharajo which was used in Ek Je Chhilo Raja, Pran bhoriye, Hridhoy amar nache re and Mitwa from Kal Ho Naa Ho.  Sanaskriti Saha chose to wear a blue sari with a yellow border as she performed in the passage of her building to the song Monomor megher songi. “I wanted to dance as well as play the violin, but due to shortage of time I chose only to dance. This time, the song choice and choreography were done by me with a little help from my mother. The shooting was done early in the morning so that the roads were empty and no one got disturbed. My father recorded the video,” said the Class VII student. “We received more than 600 videos from students from which we, along with our principal, made a selection. Later, we guided the chosen students and  created the video with their final performances. It was uploaded on the school website and social media page. The principal shared the video links with teachers in the morning on September 5,” said Payel  Das, cultural coordinator. Shatadipa Bhattacharya Hariyana Vidya Mandir Students of Hariyana Vidya Mandir celebrated Teachers Day by posting a 20-minute-long video where students of the senior section entertained teachers with their singing, dance and recitation performances. The members of the students council came together to give a special tribute to their teachers. Kunal Verma of Class XII welcomed everyone with the sloka Guru Brahma guru Vishnu. “A teacher is considered Brahma, Vishnu and Shiva together since, like the supreme gods forming the Trinity do with the universe, teachers help us create our personality, protect us from the negativity and destroy any obstacles in our way,” explained Verma. Simran Sarawgi of Class XII also spoke on what teaching means. Then the cultural performances started. Ayush Chakroborty, Taparup Kundu, Suryarati Saha and Shreya Banik of Class XII presented a group musical performance to the Tagore song Ekla chalo re while Sahil Mishra of Class X recited the poem from the movie Pink Tu chal with a lot of enthusiasm. Subhangi Das and Soham Biswas of Class XII came together for a duet performance of the Bengali song Esho hey from the film Ek Je Chhilo Raja by recording the songs at their respective homes. “This is a beautiful song so we wanted to perform it for our teachers. Practising digitally is completely different from doing it in school where we get to practise so much.But here we divided the song in portions, and then practised and performed on our own so it could be edited easily,” said Subhangi. The audio and the video clips were separately recorded. Shatadipa Bhattacharya||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-301
18-09-2020||Calcutta|| Bhanu turns 100: Quiz answers||||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-301
18-09-2020||Calcutta||Another flag off for Tagore centre, old age home||Foundation stones for two projects that have been dragging on for years were unveiled by urban development and municipal affairs minister Firhad Hakim along with fire and emergency services minister and Bidhannagar MLA Sujit Bose on Tuesday. One is the building of Rabindra Bhavan, now renamed Rabindraangan by the chief minister, that had been announced way back when the Left-led board governed the erstwhile Bidhannagar Municipality. The foundation stone of the plot had been laid by the then civic chief Biswajiban Majumdar. Then in 2013, the Trinamul Congress-led municipality had installed a Tagore statue at the plot and had again announced that a centre dedicated to Tagore would be built here. The other “new” project that was “unveiled” is an old age home behind Matri Sadan in EE Block. This too had been in the backburner for several years and construction is yet to kick off. The programme was held on the plot opposite Central Park in FE Block where a centre of excellence devoted to Rabindranath Tagore is being built. The mayor of the Bidhannagar Municipal Corporation Krishna Chakraborty was present at the launch along with councillors and mayoral council members of the civic body. Hakim “unveiled” the plan for building the centre on Tagore in the second phase in which construction of the ground floor till the third will be started. This centre has been rechristened as Rabindraangan by chief minister Mamata Banerjee, Hakim said. “This will be a revolutionary centre that will teach cultural values to the generations to come,” he said. The centre will have an auditorium as well as classrooms for cultural studies and a hostel for foreign students on exchange programmes. There will be digital archives and an e-library featuring the life and art of Rabindranath Tagore alongwith a cafeteria. Hakim lauded Krishna Chakraborty for setting aside funds from the profits earned by the civic body by organising the Bidhannagar Mela (Utsav). According to Chakraborty, they have raised a corpus fund of nearly Rs 4 crore earned from the profits registered by organising the fair. Another civic official pipped the project cost to be nearly Rs 50 crore. “We have already initiated the tender process and construction of laying the foundation and aligning the utilities is on,” said Chakraborty. The tender for the construction of the old age home on the other hand is yet to be called. A civic official said that the detailed project report is yet to be prepared and submitted to the municipal affairs department for clearance.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-301
18-09-2020||Calcutta||Hope of road repair as civic body starts survey||The road repairs department of the Bidhannagar Municipal Corporation has surveyed several areas where craters have formed in Salt Lake. Urban development and municipal affairs minister Firhad Hakim on Tuesday said that he had received a request from Bidhannagar MLA Sujit Bose to release Rs 4 crore for repairing roads of the township. “I will look into this and we want to repair the roads before the Pujas,” Hakim said at the foundation stone laying ceremony of Rabindraangan and an old age home in EE Block. The Telegraph had reported on August 28 how several roads had craters that spanned the entire lane. Ditches had been dug to replace water pipes in Sector III near KB KC blocks behind AMRI Hospitals but had not been levelled out. An engineer of the corporation said they had conducted a detailed survey to chalk out a repair plan. Of the areas checked are a 200m long section of the road that connects Anindita Island to the Broadway in Sector III. A large ditch has formed in both flanks of the crossroad there and several accidents involving both two and four-wheelers have been reported in the past few weeks. The civic body also wants to relay the entire surface of the blacktop from Tank 13 to Anindita Island that has large potholes. This stretch has a new water reservoir being built near the Income Tax colony. A stretch of road that connects Tank 13 to the EZCC traffic island on Broadway has also fallen into disrepair and motorists often use the opposite flank to bypass the damaged stretch, creating traffic snarls. A resident of IA Block said that it became extremely risky to negotiate this road. “The area resembles the surface of the moon. The other day the undercarriage of my car got scraped after it fell into a pothole at low speed. Now I make it a point to use the opposite lane knowing fully well that it is very risky. The problem is compounded at night,” said Santadip Choudhury, a techie who stays in IA Block. In Sector II, the stretch leading to GD Block bus stand from the Tank 10 needs repair. “We conducted patchwork repairs there. Soon we will repair the other stretches,” said the engineer. Tapas Chatterjee, the deputy mayor of the Bidhannagar Municipal Corporation who is also the mayoral council member in charge of roads, had said that work would take place in phases. “We hope to complete the repairs by Puja,” said Chatterjee, who is in hospital currently for Covid-19. Pramila Chatterjee, a resident of DL Block, said that roads inside their block were cratered and needed immediate repairs. “Earlier we used to take pride in the roads of Salt Lake as they were in better shape than those in other parts of the city. But sadly the civic body has not been conducting regular repairs,” said Chatterjee. A contractor who undertakes repair work in the township said they were yet to receive payment for earlier work. “Our payment has been erratic. Moreover, the civic body has not called for any fresh tenders for road repairs,” said the contractor, who did not wish to be named.
Chatterjee, on the other hand, said that the new tender process would soon be initiated.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-301
18-09-2020||Calcutta||New Town cafe sets sail in ship container||One can barely guess that a piping hot cafe next to the Eco Space Island in New Town is brewing inside a discarded ship container.
But look closely and you notice that the brightly painted exterior is made of — not cement but — metal. The kitchen is compact, rectangular-shaped and that its “windows” are but cut out of the metal walls. Cafe@Ecospace is located inside a recycled ship container. Rather, the kitchen is inside the container and chairs have been laid out outside for customers to sit on. The project is an initiative by New Town Kolkata Development Authority (NKDA). “This stretch of road from Eco Space to Elita Garden Vista or Avenida complex had become unsafe with even a case of snatching having taken place a couple of years ago,” explained Debashis Sen, chairman, NKDA. “Thereafter a police camp has come up nearby, streetlights have been added and as a strategy we have decided to set up roadside cafes that will attract customers and make the place less deserted.” To run the cafe, the authorities narrowed in on a women’s self-help group called Rabindra Swanirbhar Gosthi. “These women have been successfully running a food joint called Jagarani for three years opposite Eco Space and shall now run this cafe as well,” said Sen. The women are excited about the venture. “We shall serve soups, sandwiches, rolls, chowmein, momos and more,” smiled Mahasinara Begum from behind her mask. “At Jagarini, we would cook for 250 people a day but due to the pandemic very few people are coming now. Nonetheless we are supplying food to a safe house in New Town and doing home delivery. We realise that customers at the cafe will be scanty to start with but we are hopeful in the long run,” said Sabina Bibi, a resident of Rajarhat. Their sandwiches are priced upwards of Rs 30, chowmein Rs 25 and lassi Rs 30. As for the container, Sen said they went with the idea as they advocate recycling. “Since the metallic roof would get terribly hot in summer we built a shed atop and have added solar panels there. The women are also cooking with electric means instead of LPG,” he said. The ladies are quite satisfied with their 20ftx8ft container kitchen, induction cooker and microwave. “This is more eco-friendly and is easier to clean than when using gas cylinders,” said Manoshi Maity, another member of the self-help group.

saltlake@abpmail.com||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-301
18-09-2020||Calcutta||Charging station coming up for e-cars||In 60 days from now, New Town should throw open a fast charging station to accommodate 25 electric four-wheelers simultaneously, in what is being touted as the largest public station of its kind in the
country. Debashis Sen handed over the letter of intent to a group called Shuchi on September 16 that will be building this station near Biswa Bangla Convention Centre. Sen is chairman cum managing director of Housing and Infrastructure Development Corporation (Hidco) and chairman of New Town Kolkata Development Authority (NKDA). “New Town has about 10 charging stations for four-wheelers and some more for three-wheelers like totos but these are scattered across the township, unlike at this new station,” said Sen. “Land for this station will be provided by Hidco and Shuchi will pay us 88 paise per unit of electricity sold to vehicles.” The space demarcated for the project is right next to the proposed multi-level car parking complex that will hold thousands of cars, especially of those visiting the convention centre. The space is on the Major Arterial Road and the station will be called Powerbunk. The very first clients of the station are likely to be from Lithium, a Bangalore-based corporate car rental company that exclusively deploys electric vehicles. “Lithium operates out of six major cities and we have just started out in Calcutta. We shall roll out a fleet of 1,000 electric cars over the next two or three years, which will charged right here,” said Vikash Mishra, business head— north and east, Lithium. Incidentally, Shuchi, the group that will be building the station is a joint venture between Lithium and a solar power company called Fourth Partner Energy. “Electric car owners charging their vehicles at home use the slow mode that provides full charge over eight hours but the commercial level fast chargers here will charge cars in an hour,’ said Mishra. He claims this would be India’s largest public charging station and that they will begin services in 60 days. “Our fleet of 1,000 electric vehicles (EV) will abate 10,000 metric tonnes of carbon emission a year. That will be comparable to adding 10 Eco Parks to the environment,” he says. Shuchi will be investing Rs 150 crore in this project and expects to create more than 3,000 direct and indirect jobs, besides triggering the entry of original equipment manufacturers and related EV products and service centres to come up. Lithium will be using electric cars like Tata Nexon, Tata Tigor, Mahindra eVerito and MG ZS EV. Principal secretary of the transport department, Prabhat Kumar Mishra, attended the ceremony and hailed the New Town authorities for bridging the infrastructure gap. “Before this, it was always a chicken-and-egg situation with respect to electric cars and charging stations,” he said. “New Town has six electric buses, Calcutta has 80 and a new fleet of 50 such buses should ply in Salt Lake and Rajarhat in six months’ time under the Faster Adoption and Manufacturing of Electric Vehicles in India (FAME-II) scheme. The city has a huge number of taxis and we also want to persuade at least some of them to switch to electric power.” Also present was Rakhi Basu, transport expert representing the World Bank. “We had helped the state government procure the 80 electric buses and seeing their success, private players have gained confidence to enter the market. Calcutta has one the highest users of public transport in the world and the city in fact went electric way back with the tram. We want to make electric vehicles (EV) popular in the 21st century now.” Also attending the event was Sanjoy Chatterjee, founder of Ideation Technology Solution that has developed Pathadisha, the public transport assistance app for the state government. “Transport is the backbone of any city,” said Chatterjee. “Eventually we shall integrate this charging station with the app so anyone with driving an EV can come here for anxiety charging (fear of the battery running out).” saltlake@abpmail.co||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-301
18-09-2020||Calcutta||Calcutta Police initiates probe into the death of Sharbari Dutta||The Calcutta Police on Friday initiated a probe into the death of renowned fashion designer Sharbari Dutta. Dutta, 63, was found dead in the bathroom of her residence on Broad Street in south Calcutta on Thursday evening. A case of unnatural death was registered and the body sent for postmortem examination, a senior police officer said. "There are injury marks on her ankle. We have initiated a probe into the matter," he said. A doctor, called by Dutta's family members after they found her body in the bathroom, attributed her death to cardiac arrest. Her family members, however, said Dutta was not seen in the residence throughout Thursday and she was later found dead in the bathroom. "I had last seen my mother on Wednesday. I hadn't seen her on Thursday. I thought she was busy and had gone out for work. "Both of us remained so busy that we didn't get to meet every day. Later, we found her body in the bathroom," her son Amalin Dutta, also a fashion designer, said. Sharbari Dutta, the daughter of Bengali poet Ajit Dutta, had made a mark in designing men's ethnic wear. Her label became popular for a unique blend of ethnicity and modernity in fabric and vibrancy in colour. Dutta had set up her brand 'Shunyaa' with outlets in Calcutta. She dabbled into women's wear and was a known face in fashion shows organised in the city. The showbiz fraternity expressed shock over her death.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-301
18-09-2020||Calcutta||At CID hub, curiosity bares ‘impersonation’||Two men who had been called to the CID headquarters in Alipore for questioning had allegedly sent someone else impersonating one of them. The duo’s bluff was caught when their curiosity got the better of them and they wanted to check what had happened when the man they allegedly sent was taking more than the usual time to step out. The two — Romi Hirawat and Varun Laddha — were allegedly found tampering with the visitors’ register at the entrance to Bhabani Bhawan on Wednesday while trying to enter the building where they had sent an impostor hours ago, police said. Hirawat and Laddha allegedly sent one of their employees, Raktim Chowdhury, to appear before the CID officer posing as one of them. “It appears this was not the first time the two had seen sending an impersonator to the CID, scheduling the visit in a way that the investigating officer of the case in which they are accused would not be at Bhabani Bhawan,” an officer said. Everytime Chowdhury visited the building, he allegedly signed as one of the accused on the visitors’ register. “The investigating officer got suspicious about the visits, in response to a court order, because they were timed with his absence. He stayed back to check and... found their bluff,” said an officer of Alipore police station, where the CID has lodged a complaint against the two accused and the alleged imposter. When Chowdhury did not come out for more than two hours, Laddha and Hirawat decided to enter the building and find out what happened to him. “While entering the building, they had written their actual names on the register and one of them was found scratching the name Chowdhury had allegedly written a few hours before. They were trying to replace the entry with ‘Raktim Chowdhury’. The sentry immediately alerted officers, who detained Hirawat and Laddha,” an officer said. All three were arrested. A case of cheating, forgery and criminal conspiracy has been started.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-301
18-09-2020||Calcutta||Sight-less teacher with vision for Covid-hit||A teacher lacks sight but his vision has given new direction to thousands of people with visual impairment. In the wake of the pandemic, an organisation steered by him has supported over 500 out-of-work families. As principal of the Ramakrishna Mission Blind Boys’ Academy in Narendrapur in 2010, Biswajit Ghosh has been mentoring the students towards a life of dignity. The academy is known for placing stress on extra-curricular activities. Apart from studies, the students take part and win laurels in cricket, football, swimming, music and several other activities. But his work is not limited to the academy. The pandemic has put millions of people out of work. Among such people, the differently able have been hit the hardest. Thousands of visually impaired hawkers who sold stuff on local trains and at suburban stations have been robbed of their livelihood. The Society For The Welfare Of The Blind, of which Ghosh is the secretary, has provided dry ration and financial support to over 500 such families across eight districts of Bengal. Ghosh and his NGO were felicitated with the Disha Samman 2020, organised by Disha Eye Hospitals, at a New Town auditorium on Thursday. The award is given to acknowledge the achievements of visually challenged people and organisations which work towards the benefit of these people. The award comprised a plaque and a cash prize of Rs 1,00,000. The Telegraph has earlier reported on the donation drives of the NGO. “After every fortnight, I sit with plans of the next — how to gather money for the drive. We have a target of reaching out to 900 families. We have already covered over 500. I am extremely grateful to my friends, colleagues and former students who have supported me in this. But a lot of work is left,” Ghosh said on Thursday. “The pandemic situation has been challenging for all of us. One can very well understand the plight of the visually impaired during this testing times. It is really encouraging that the Society has come forward to help the blind,” said Debasish Bhattacharya, the chairman and managing director, Disha Eye Hospitals. Debashis Sen, the chairman of Hidco, presented the award to Ghosh on Thursday. Those supported by the NGO includes people selling everything from incense sticks to homemade chanachur. What struck Ghosh most is the difficulty for visually impaired people to switch professions. “These people were not begging. They earned a life of dignity by hard work. The pandemic is threatening that,” said Ghosh, who has done his master’s in English literature from Calcutta University. Ghosh was himself a student of the Narendrapur academy and taught there for more than 15 years before taking over the top post.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-301
18-09-2020||Calcutta||Schools give entry fee relief||Several schools in the city have decided to provide financial relief to parents seeking admission for their children in Nursery by allowing them to pay the fee in two instalments. For most of them this is the first time that schools are making such an exception keeping in mind the pandemic. South Point and Vivekananda Mission School, Joka, are some of the institutions which have told parents to pay the admission fee in two instalments because of the current economic situation. Many people have faced economic hardships, loss in businesses or even pay cuts during this period and many of them have also been unable to pay the school fees and sought waivers. Some of the schools “anticipated” that parents might be finding it difficult and so they made the changes in their admission fee payment method. Across many city schools, the fee to be paid at the time of admission varies between Rs 65,000 and Rs 1 lakh. South Point that has begun taking admission will accept the payment now and again in December. “In order to provide some financial relief to the parents in view of the current economic situation due to COVID-19, the total amount will be collected in two instalments,” the school has written to the parents. “We did it on our own because we realised if parents do not have to shell out the entire amount at one go, it will be a relief for them,” said Krishna Damani, trustee of South Point. Vivekananda Mission School in Joka has also decided on the instalments and parents could pay by the end of the year or beginning of the session. “Even in paying the first instalment several parents are asking for extension of the deadline....,” said Arnab Chandra, the rector of the school. Some of the institutions like Indus Valley World School and South City International School, however, are not extending the benefit to all parents but only those who are requesting. The admission process in city schools begins in September for the April 2021 session. Many schools are conducting it online and some of them have already published the list of selected candidates. “We have received requests from some parents who are in financial distress and we are considering their request to stagger the payment,” said Amita Prasad, director of Indus Valley World School. “From now to when the classes start in April, the parents will get some months to make the payment.” Parents are either sending email to the school or talking to the admission officer to make a request, the school said. Several other schools are also deliberating on considering cases depending on the nature of request and the extent of financial distress. “We understand that not many parents will make such a request because there is a difference between the existing parents of the school and the new parents,” said the head of a school.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-301
18-09-2020||Calcutta||Work on airport Metro subway starts||The construction of an underground passenger corridor connecting the upcoming Airport Metro station and Jessore Road started on Wednesday. An underground Metro Railway station connected to three lines — Airport-New Garia, Airport-Noapara and Airport-Barasat — is being built on the airport premises, around 150m from the integrated terminal. Two subways will be built from the station — one leading to the terminal and another to Jessore Road. “On September 16, construction of subway connectivity between the underground airport station and Jessore Road (NH35) started. After construction of temporary guide walls, soil is being excavated for the diaphragm wall. The diaphragm wall panel is 1m wide and 5m long. Its depth is 18.5m,” said Metro spokesperson Indrani Banerjee. “Work is running round the clock under the supervision of senior engineers. It is being executed by maintaining all safety precautions and measures for Covid-19.” In the intervening night of Wednesday and Thursday, a giant crane drilled the guide walls beneath the earth, aided by scores of workers. The corridor between Jessore Road and the Airport station will be around 280m long, 10.4m wide and 4.5m deep. The construction is expected to be completed within eight to nine months, said a Metro engineer. The distance has to be covered on foot, unlike the proposed corridor till the airport terminal. There will be a corridor with walkalators for passengers to reach the terminal from the station, the official said. Counters for luggage check-in could be set up at the station and there might be a dedicated corridor for transporting the luggage to the boarding point, said airport officials. The airport authorities will build the entry to the terminal for the Metro passengers. The corridor to reach Jessore Road will be longer than the one leading to the airport terminal, officials said. “There will be passenger entry/exit points on either side of the road near gate 2.5 of the airport,” an official said. The station at the airport will have five platforms, a concourse level and an underground railway yard, which will be Calcutta’s first. The platforms will be at 12m below the ground and the concourse level at 6m, said Metro officials. Work to remove girders of the abandoned portions of the Circular Railway viaduct beyond Jessore Road, which was an obstacle to the alignment of an underground tunnel for the extension of Metro from Noapara to Barasat via the airport, also resumed on Wednesday. “After crossing the most crucial portion of VIP Road, the work continued even in the backdrop of the pandemic. But a sudden mechanical failure of the 600MT crane forced the work to halt. After being suspended for nearly two months, work resumed on Wednesday when a girder weighing over 400MT was removed,” said a Metro official.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-302
18-09-2020||Calcutta||Follow state directive: ICSE council||The Council for Indian School Certificate Examinations (CISCE)  on Thursday clarified that the partial reopening of its schools will have to be in “conformity” with the directives of the respective state governments and any reopening will be subject to their permission. The council directed the schools not to do “anything” in regard to reopening which “contravenes” the guidelines of the state government. The CISCE had on Wednesday notified its schools on partial reopening for students seeking guidance with parental consent from September 21. The council had later said it would reconsider the approach in Bengal after the state government said all schools in the state would remain shut at least till September 30. In the fresh notification issued to the heads of all its affiliated schools on Thursday, the CISCE said: “Please note that the re-opening of the schools in your State must be in conformity to the respective State Government directives. Therefore, the suggested activities to be carried out are subject to the State Government’s permission for schools to re-open in the State.” The notification reads: “You are hereby directed to kindly follow the guidelines, as issued by the State Government. Do not do anything which contravenes or is in direct conflict with the guidelines of the State. Your (the schools’) compliance of the State is solicited.” Though the council had said it would reconsider its decision for Bengal, the notification issued on Thursday applies to all states, the principal of a school in Calcutta said. After the CISCE issued its notification on partial reopening, Bengal education minister Partha Chatterjee had told The Telegraph on Wednesday that all educational institutions in the state would remain closed at least till September 30, as announced by the state government. “I am not aware about the ICSE council’s decision…. Our government had announced that all educational institutions in the state will remain closed till September 30. There is no change in the decision,” Chatterjee had said on Wednesday, reacting to the council's notification. The council in its Wednesday’s notification had advised the schools to enable students, particularly those appearing in the Class X and XII board exams, to do practical on prescribed topics in school laboratories as the “hands on” practical work could not be performed earlier because of the pandemic and the lockdown. The schools were also advised by the CISCE to utilise the partial reopening to complete project work and ensure the projects are submitted to the subject teachers by a deadline.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-302
18-09-2020||Calcutta||Kite flying injures many birds||Kites flying activity in the run up to Vishwakarma Puja has taken a heavy toll on birds across the city. More than 30 birds with kite string injuries have been rescued since Wednesday by the forest department’s wildlife rescue teams as well as individuals across the city, an official at the Wildlife Rescue Centre in Salt Lake said on Thursday. Birds struggle to free themselves after they get caught in the strings and in the process injure their wings, legs or talons. Some even die. According to the forester, the centre had been receiving calls from across the city and even from the outskrits to resuce injured birds. Manja (a mixture of glass and glue) helps kites soar but also adds to the string’s sharpness. Such strings do not snap and leave birds, entangled in them, severely injured. The nylon ones are known as Chinese manja — they are almost unbreakable and extremely sharp. Calcutta High Court had in July directed cops to strictly enforce the ban on Chinese manja. However, they are easily available in the markets. Suprakash Mukherjee, a resident of Manicktala who has been flying kites with his son, said the Chinese manja was quite popular as during kite fights. “If you are using Chinese manja then your kite becomes near invincible....although it is extremely hazardous for two-wheeler riders as well as birds,” said Mukherjee. The Telegraph had earlier reported how kite sting injuries were getting increasingly common as birds would fly into dangling strings. Soumyodip Mukherjee, an IT architect, rescued a dove that was dangling from a piece of kite string in Phoolbagan. “It was a piece of nylon string. We had to cut through with a knife to get the bird down,” said Mukherjee. Kalyani resident and bird lover Diptimoy Pal, drove down to Dankuni, a distance of around 45km, to help residents there bring down a black crowned night heron that was entangled in a kite string. Pal will handover the bird to the forest departmnet on Friday morning. Subhankar Patra, a veteran birdwatcher said that they would often come across these injuries when the season of flying kites starts. “Birds cannot see the string while flying and they get entangled in them,” said Patra. Several NGOs that work towards animal welfare have started campaigns on social media asking people not to use nylon strings or glass laced ones while flying kites. Shamik Dutta, a member of Bonyo, an animal welfare organisation, said they had started a social media campaign as well as helpline number where people can call if they spot injured birds. A similar campaign has also been started by Society for Heritage & Ecological Research (SHER), an NGO that works to reduce human-wildlife conflict. “Awareness is the key here,” said Joydip Kundu the founder member of SHER.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-302
18-09-2020||Calcutta||Jewellery hub reflects Covid crisis||Just about 300 shops and workshops out of the 7,000-odd in the jewellery hub of Bowbazar celebrated Vishwakarma Puja on Thursday with most shop-owners and goldsmiths opting to stay at home, struck by the Covid-induced slump in business. The ones that held the puja had an early closure. The familiar sight of elaborate lunch with generous servings of biriyani was missing and so was the loud music. Across parts of Nabin Chand Boral Lane, Prem Chand Boral Street, Durga Pituri Lane and Syakrapara Lane, the stillness of the afternoon reflected the crisis that one of Calcutta’s most booming businesses has slipped into. “There have been no orders for almost six months now. People have stopped visiting ornament shops, leave alone buying,” said Tapan Ghosh, the owner of Gold Plaza jewellery shop on Durga Pituri Lane. “There is nothing to celebrate this year. Not even Vishwakarma Puja.” Ghosh, like several others, didn’t open his shop on Thursday. Not one of his five goldsmiths stepped out of their homes during the day. They haven’t earned anything for the last few months. Traders and market watchers said the central Calcutta jewellery hub would witness a transaction of around Rs 450 and Rs 500 crore around this time every year. Orders would pour in from across India with customers choosing their trusted shops in the lanes and bylanes such as Durga Pituri Lane, Gour De Lane and Radha Mohan Pal Lane. It would be the busiest time for the 15,000-odd artisans engaged in the gold trade in Bowbazar. Many of them commute from parts of Naihati, Baruipur, Sodepur and Amta. “The first setback came last year, when Metro tunneling work created a subsidence,” said Bharat Soni, the owner of a jewellery shop in Syakrapara Lane. “Then came the Covid-19 pandemic.” “I didn’t even feel like going to Bowbazar today,” said Gopal Modak, who owns a jewellery shop. “Several of my friends who have been allotted an alternative space by Metro following last year’s cave-in didn't open their shutters. Byabshai nei, ki korbo (There is no business. What do we do).” Traders and members of the Bangiya Swarna Shlipa Samity, an umbrella organisation of gold traders, said Calcutta would consume around 50 tones of gold annually and Bowbazar would contribute the largest share. This September, the slump has brought the business down by almost 70 per cent.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-302
18-09-2020||Calcutta||Police turn down plea for cycling lanes||Police have turned down a proposal to have dedicated lanes for cycles on some roads in Calcutta, arguing that such corridors will shrink the road space, slow down vehicles and lead to an increase in air pollution, a CMDA official said. The CMDA had written to the police with a request for a meeting to fix the roads where a portion can be earmarked for cycles. Ever since the phased Unlock started in June, many people have chosen cycles as their mode of transport as it allows them to remain at a safe distance from others. Across the world people have embraced cycles as a cleaner mode of transport. Many Calcuttans feel this was the opportune time to maximise the use of bicycles, but Calcutta police have a history of stonewalling efforts to introduce widespread cycling across the city. Cycling is now allowed only in select lanes and bylanes in the city. “We have replied to the CMDA. We have told them that their proposal is not feasible,” said Rupesh Kumar, deputy commissioner, traffic, Calcutta police. Kumar did not want to elaborate on whether the police gave any other proposal to the CMDA and whether it was impossible to have dedicated lanes for bicycles at all. A CMDA official said they had planned to use mobile lane markers or guardrails to carve out a portion of the road for bicycles. “The police said the shrunken road space would create snarls. The additional pollutants that will be released in the air because of extra burning of petrol and diesel, resulting from the snarls, will negate the positive impact of cycles,” the CMDA official said. A Calcutta police officer with over three decades of experience in traffic management said allowing cycles on the city’s thoroughfares was almost impossible given the unique problems Calcutta faces. “No other city suffers from encroachment problems like Calcutta. All pavements have been taken over by hawkers, forcing pedestrians to walk on the road. Moreover, there are auto stands and parking zones along the kerbs of most roads. All these take up a portion of the road width. If more road space is taken away for cycles, only half the carriageway will remain free for buses, motorbikes, autos and cars. Traffic would come to a crawl,” the officer said. Chandigarh has dedicated cycle lanes on some roads. Bangalore, too, is making cycle lanes, said Sharif Qamar, a fellow at the Centre for Sustainable Mobility in The Energy and Resources Institute (TERI). “In India, the stress is still more on moving motorised transport than moving people. While 50 per cent of the people rely on walking or cycling for movement, the space allotted for them is marginal. But private cars move only a fraction of people and they eat up the majority of road space,” said Qamar. A Calcuttan, who visited the Netherlands a couple of years back, said commuters need to follow certain etiquette if the roads are to have cycling lanes. “In the Netherlands, no pedestrian or motorised transport enters the lane for cycles,” he said. Some cyclists feel that instead of making lanes, the police should open all roads for cyclists. That would be a better promotion of cycling, they felt. The unnecessary harassment of cyclists for riding on an arterial road must be stopped, they said. “I was stopped on Park Street on a Sunday recently. There is no logic behind not allowing a cyclist on Park Street. Even if there is logic, the police never say that in clear language. Respect a cyclist. Most cyclists ride along the side of a road, fearing for their own safety. It is a complete lie to call cyclists nuisance,” said Sudipto Roy, a private company executive.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-302
18-09-2020||Calcutta||Denied slot in London, AI direct flight goes hopping||Air India’s promised direct Calcutta-London evacuation flight on Thursday finally turned into a Calcutta-Delhi-London flight with a four-hour delay in Calcutta for passengers from the city and another three-hour wait in Delhi. Air India blamed Heathrow for refusing a slot for the Calcutta flight at the last moment but aviation industry sources said such things rarely happened with other airlines. An official at the Calcutta airport said airlines usually applied for slots for evacuation and air-transport-bubble flights seven to 10 days in advance. “If the application is submitted well in advance, all airports either give permission for the slots or ask for another date well in advance,” said the official. An official of an international airline that operates out of Calcutta said airport slots and timings were crucial, which are ensured before opening bookings. “Applying for slots is now done one month before because of Covid-19. During regular operations, it is done several months in advance. This needs a lot of planning. Once an airport approves the slot, we open bookings and inform passengers about the timings,” said the official. “If a slot is sought at the last moment, chances are an airport will reject the request. But I don't know what happened with Air India's flight,” said the official. The flight, a Boeing 787 Dreamliner with 234 seats, including 32 in business class, was scheduled to take off from Calcutta at 6.20am. The plane had arrived from London early on Thursday with 14 passengers, 12 in economy and two in the business class. But the flight, with 72 passengers, finally took off at 10.05am. It first landed in Delhi at 11.50am and after a layover of three hours, took off for London around 2.45pm, said sources. At the Delhi airport, 86 other passengers boarded the plane. The flight landed at 6.56pm, London time. Pritha Kejriwal, flying to London from Calcutta to submit her PhD thesis, said she would not have booked a seat on the flight had she known it would not fly directly to London. “AI 1149 was the original flight which was meant to fly directly to Heathrow from Calcutta, which was then changed to AI 111, which is hopping via Delhi and reached London six-and-a-half hours later than scheduled,” said Kejriwal. At 1am on Thursday, she received a call from Air India informing her that the flight would take off at 10am, instead of 6.20am, and would go via Delhi. “They initially said the reason was technical. At the airport, Air India staff told us they did not get a slot at Heathrow. I was shocked,” she said. “At the Delhi airport, we had to sit inside the aircraft for three hours.” Air India had earlier announced a twice-a-week direct flight between Calcutta and London under the Vande Bharat programme (evacuation) till October 24. On Thursday, an official of Air India said he was not sure whether the rest of the flights would be direct. “If we get slots for the Calcutta flight to land in Heathrow, it will be direct. Otherwise passengers would be taken via Delhi,” he said. The spokesperson for Air India said: “Today, due to the last-minute non-availability of slot at Heathrow Airport, which was communicated to us late on September 16 evening, the flight from Calcutta could not be operated directly from Calcutta to London. This was something beyond our control as we had been assured of a slot…. The same aircraft from Calcutta with a brief stopover at Delhi left for London... Slot for this flight from Delhi is available at Heathrow.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-302
18-09-2020||Calcutta||UGC sets October date for results||The UGC has asked the state government to publish the results of end semester/final year exams “preferably” by the end of October so that admissions to the first year of postgraduate/PhD programme “can be completed without any further delay and the next session can commence timely”. UGC’s secretary Rajnish Jain in a letter to the state higher education department on Wednesday set the timeline while accepting the department’s request to extend the deadline for completing the exams till October 18. The previous deadline was September 30. “Accordingly, the final year/terminal semester examinations in colleges and universities be completed by October 18. Further, you are also requested to ensure that the results of these examinations be declared at the earliest and preferably by the end of October so that the admissions…” says the letter addressed to higher education secretary Manish Jain on September 16. Jain had on September 2 sought the permission in a letter to the UGC’s chairman as the Supreme Court had said on August 28 that if any state or Union territory decided that it was not possible to hold the undergraduate and postgraduate exams by September 30, in keeping with the UGC’s July 6 advisory, it could seek an extension of the deadline. An official of the Bengal higher education department said the vice-chancellors of all state-aided universities had been informed about the communication from the UGC. “The publication of results by the end of October can pose a challenge for the affiliating universities like Calcutta University, which has over 140 colleges affiliated to it. But the deadline has to be honoured,” said the official. CU uploaded its exam schedule on Wednesday on its website, www.caluniv.ac.in. Getting the answer scripts from such a large number of students, many of whom lack the facilities to email or WhatsApp their scripts in the PDF format to their colleges within 24 hours of receiving the question papers, could pose a problem, the official said. “CU has to come up with a guideline on how the scripts could be obtained from all students. I believe teachers will have to evaluate the scripts through the Puja vacation to comply with the deadline,” the official said. Repeated calls to CU vice-chancellor Sonali Chakravarti Banerjee went unanswered. “We will try to publish results before the Puja vacation starts,” said an official of Jadavpur University, which will hold exams from October 1 to 10.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-302
18-09-2020||Calcutta||Calcutta couple in financial distress found dead ||A young man who had invested his life’s savings in a car to earn a living as an app cab driver was found dead with his wife at their one-room Chetla home on Mahalaya morning, with police suspecting a double suicide. Officers said Arijit Dutta, 32, had earned hardly anything since the lockdown began and was struggling to repay his bank loan, pay his rent and bear household expenses. Many app cab owners in the city are in financial distress, with the service having been closed between March 25 and end-May and with its recovery since then hamstrung by people’s reluctance to travel in public vehicles. Besides their financial hardship, the Duttas had suffered another tragedy: their four-month-old child died in June. Arijit was found on the floor with one end of a snipped dupatta round his neck, which bore ligature marks, and the other tied to the ceiling fan. Wife Suparna, 30, was hanging from the ceiling fan at the end of another dupatta. “A knife was found at the spot,” an officer from Charu Market police station said. Preliminary investigations suggest that Suparna had found Arijit hanging from the fan and used the knife to cut the noose and bring him down. “It appears that when she realised he was dead, she too committed suicide,” the officer said. The investigators have found a diary, with a pen placed inside as a bookmark, showing a page where a handwritten line said that no one was responsible for the writer’s death. The police believe Arijit wrote it. Relatives of the couple told reporters that bank recovery agents had visited Arijit. The police said Arijit had for the past few months been unable to pay the rent of Rs 4,000 for his fourth-floor room in Chetla Road. Arijit’s landlord, who lives on the floor below him, had come to the terrace in the morning to hang clothes to dry. He found the Duttas’ door shut and the room unusually quiet, he has told the police. When the couple failed to answer his knocks, he peeped through the window and called the police. The door, locked from inside, had to be broken open. Husband and wife were declared dead on arrival at SSKM Hospital. Sources at the Lalbazar police headquarters said that thousands of traders and others in the city who had taken bank loans had been unable to repay their EMIs. They said the number of suicides from financial distress in Covid-hit 2020 seemed higher than those recorded in the same period last year. Many app cab owners are feeling the heat. “I bought two cars against loans in 2019, but I have had no income in the past few months,” a Sonarpur resident who has invested in two Swift Dzires, driving one himself and hiring a driver for the other, said. “My bank has been sending recovery agents, but I haven’t been able to do much apart from requesting them for more time.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-302
18-09-2020||Calcutta||Plea for Chhath at Sarovar rejected||The National Green Tribunal on Thursday refused to hear the Calcutta Metropolitan Development Authority’s prayer to allow Chhath rituals on the Rabindra Sarobar premises and told the Bengal government’s lawyers they should feel happy that no cost had been imposed on them for filing such a petition. Tens of thousands of Calcuttans welcomed the order. One of them, Sumita Banerjee, told The Telegraph: “The CMDA is the protector of the place. Now imagine what sort of a protector is it that is asking for a relaxation that would destroy and devastate the place?” The tribunal’s eastern zonal bench of Justice S.P. Wangdi and expert member Nagin Nanda dismissed the review petition filed by the CMDA requesting modification of a 2017 order of the bench that had imposed a ban on Chhath Puja on the Sarobar premises. “We are dismissing the petition,” the bench said once the case came up for hearing. “You should feel happy that we are not imposing the cost.” But the state has not given up. An official said it was likely to move the Supreme Court against the tribunal’s order. Many thought the state’s position was dictated by the electoral necessity to not annoy Chhath worshippers ahead of the Assembly elections next year. There are many on the other camp, too, who value the biodiversity that the spraw-ling south Calcutta lake and the greens surrounding it represent. Author and singer Amit Chaudhuri, who has often fought an unequal battle with the city’s agencies to protect its heritage, told The Telegraph the CMDA’s petition was “in keeping with the tradition of government organs in Calcutta” not doing what they are meant to do. “This is not an aberration,” he said. Last year, thousands of Chhath revellers had broken padlocks on the gate and entered the lake premises, burst firecrackers, lit diyas on the water, played loud music and dirtied the place as police virtually allowed them a free run. The CMDA, in its submission, accepted its inability to comply with the tribunal’s order in 2019 stating that “the worshippers forcibly entered the Sarobar breaking the locks and Chhath Puja was forcefully performed in Rabindra Sarobar”. “We were helpless. The police did not help us (stop the revellers),” said a CMDA official. The ban was based on recommendations of an expert committee set up by the tribunal to assess the environmental status of the waterbody. Environment activist Subhas Datta, whose petition had originally prompted the tribunal to impose the ban on Chhath Puja at Rabindra Sarobar, said after the dismissal of the petition: “We should not stop at this. We have all seen how the ban was flouted last year. We will have to ensure it is implemented this time.” The Telegraph had on September 8 reported that the CMDA, the custodian of Rabindra Sarobar, had filed a review petition at the tribunal seeking a “special permission” to allow Chhath Puja at the Sarobar. A CMDA official said their petition was a “suo motu” action. The official added that the agency filed the petition because the matter involved “the emotion of lakhs of people and the CMDA was not in a position to stop a mob” from entering the premises. The local Trinamul councillor, Baiswanar Chatterjee, echoed: “I am not ready to accept the version of environmentalists as gospel. One also has to acknowledge religious sentiments and the fact that the ritual is being practised for a long time.” Residents of the area disputed Chatterjee’s claim. They said the scale on which the defiling happens started around 2010. Datta said the administration had also failed to implement most of the recommendations proposed by the expert committee, even though they had been turned into a judicial order. Arunabha Majumder, an emeritus professor of Jadavpur University, said an event like Chhath at the lake contributes to water pollution in various ways. “First, the BOD (Biological Oxygen Demand) increases with the increase of organic matter in water with so many people bathing, and fruits and flo-wers being dumped there. Secondly, oil and grease poured into the water as part of puja offerings reduce oxygen transfer in the water, which may affect the lives of aquatic animals.” State urban development minister and CMDA chairperson Firhad Hakim had earlier promised to clear the pollution within a day, which has been countered by the green crusaders. “Cleaning the banks and reducing the pollution are not the same, as the latter has a far reaching impact on the environment,” an activist said. The CMDA should not have filed the review petition. Rabindra Sarobar is like the lungs of south Calcutta. It holds such an important place in terms of the city’s environment. If a precedent is set by allowing Chhath Puja at Rabindra Sarobar, then many more things would have been done using this precedent. Abin Chaudhuri, architect and Lake morning walker There is a tradition of bodies that are meant to protect not doing their job in Calcutta. This is not an aberration, but it should be countered and opposed. People should continue to oppose as long as bodies and government organs that have been entrusted with a certain duty do not do that. As long as they do not realise that it is their job to be responsible for something, we should continue to oppose it. Amit Chaudhuri, author, singer and founder of Calcutta Architectural Legacies (CAL) The CMDA is the protector of the place. Now imagine what sort of a protector is it that is asking for a relaxation that would destroy and devastate the place. The NGT has said that Chhath Puja cannot be organised inside the Sarobar. It is the government’s duty to see that people go to other places. The government is meant to make people obey a court’s order. Sumita Banerjee, a regular at Rabindra Sarobar and an activist fighting for its protection||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-302
18-09-2020||Calcutta||Recovery rate boost for Covid care forum||An initiative started to help Covid-19 patients through free online consultation with doctors in the Bidhannagar assembly constituency area is making a difference within a month of its launch. Now the organisers are spreading the service to non-Covid patients who are unable to reach out for medical treatment, fearing infection. Named Sparsho, the initiative of MLA Sujit Bose is being run in association with a group of doctors called Protect the Warriors. “People lack awareness about Covid-19. Those in home isolation were not getting medical guidance in many cases. Through video conference, we are reaching out to patients,” Bose told The Telegraph Salt Lake. Registration for patients are done Monday to Saturday 12noon to 3pm on the Sparsho helpline while doctors offer consultation from 4pm to 6pm. In the first month since it was set up, doctors in the group attended to 254 patients, 356 were tested free of cost for Covid-19 infection, including 212 at the Bidhannagar Subdivisional Hospital and the rest at the Dakshindari testing facility, 26 critically ill patients were hospitalised while pulse oxymeters were reached to 16 families in isolation which could not afford to buy one. “As we are working in collaboration with Swasthya Bhaban, we have in hand the data on who tests positive when and staying in home isolation. We reach out to all of them in the Bidhannagar area. The panic that existed even in end-July about Covid has subsided to an extent as people now know they will get medical support from Sparsho,” said Abhik Ghosh, a CB Block-based ENT specialist who is coordinating with the member-doctors. Sparsho, he points out, came into being when Bose was hospitalised with Covid himself. “Our organisation, Protect the Warriors, was formed in end-March to support healthcare workers. We had about 25-26 doctors on board. We further escalated our activities and gained prominence after cyclone Amphan, holding health camps in the Sunderbans and East Midnapore. But as our membership increased to 500-plus, we realised that police, vegetable sellers or garbage cleaners were all frontline workers in their own way and deserved support.” At this point, he was visiting Bose regularly in hospital. “One day, he asked me to do something for his constituency. That is how the platform came into being.” The single biggest achievement in the first month, he feels, is the sharp improvement in the area’s recovery rate. “Before Sparsho came into being, the local recovery rate was 62 per cent. Now it has shot up to 90 per cent.” At this rate, he expects the Covid situation in Bidhannagar assembly area (which is different from the municipal corporation area) to be under control in another month. “A crisis of availability of Covid beds is not there any more as most big hospitals in and around Salt Lake have beds to offer to Covid patients. The only shortage is of ICU beds with ventilators.” Adds co-founder of Protect the Warriors Anirban Dolui, a public health specialist who is also the Covid surveillance officer of North 24-Parganas: “Bidhannagar was clocking 100-150 new infections daily from end-May to end-June. The rate remained static through July. Now it has come down to 35 to 50 new cases daily. Both active cases per day and test positivity rate are currently on a downward graph. Better awareness, accessibility of testing and the improved support infrastructure, like what Sparsho is providing, are certainly yielding results.” The rising popularity of Sparsho means having to attend calls at odd hours, sometimes even from outside Bidhannagar constituency. “Three days ago, we got a call at 11.30pm on our helpline. A three-year old’s father from Beleghata was seeking help for his son’s fever. I requested a paediatrician member to reach out. At midnight, the doctor offered him video consultation.” That is why the helpline is now being manned for longer hours than was planned. The platform is also hosting online interactive medical meets. Block committees of localities are informed in advance so that residents of the area can log in. “We have doctors from various fields talking and taking questions. So far, 18 meets have taken place over video conference. We get over 200 live views on an average for these programmes,” Ghosh said. saltlake@abpmail.com Sparsho helpline: (For Bidhannagar Assembly constituency residents)  7439596460 and 7439598338
Registration time: 12noon to 12 midnight
Consultation time: 4pm to 6pm. Emergency consultation at any time of the day.
Charge: Nil||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-302
18-09-2020||Calcutta||Return of the  app cycles||Love cycling but don’t have a bike? A cycle-sharing app, to be launched in New Town next week, will allow commuters to pick up a cycle from a spot, ride it around and return it when done. And the best part is that for the first half an hour, you can ride for free. Chartered Bike, an Ahmedabad-based company, will start operations in our smart city from September 24. Firhad Hakim, minister of urban development and municipal affairs, will come down for the ceremony. “New Town Kolkata Development Authority (NKDA) has built five cycle stands for the service and shall build more later,” said Debashis Sen, chairman cum managing director of Housing and Infrastructure Development Corporation (Hidco) and chairman of NKDA. How to hitch a ride To avail of the cycles one needs to download the “Chartered Bike” on the phone. Activate your account with a minimum of Rs 300. This sum will be a prepaid deposit and charges will be deducted from here whenever you use a bike. The amount will have lifetime validity but in case a customer wishes, he can get his unused deposit refunded by writing an email to the company. Where to get the cycles The service is being launched with 100 cycles spread over five stations — New Town bus terminus, near Reliance Fresh, outside Axis Mall, Novotel and Dongfang Electric (near the Central Mall petrol pump). “Our largest station will be at Axis Mall. There will be space for 40 bikes here plus an additional 20 racks for riders who may have come from different stations on their cycles,” says Araz Khan, project manager of Chartered Bikes. The bikes will be “locked” at the stations but you can hire one with your app. Scan the QR code printed on the bike’s fender or frame lock and it will unlock. You can now take off. Should you halt somewhere mid-way you can get off the bike and click “parking” on the app. You will have to manually turn a lever on the wheel to lock it. Once you return, click “unpark” on the app and continue riding. When you want to return the bike  you have to do so at any of the five stations and click “end ride”. The meter on your phone will stop ticking and the corresponding payment will be deducted from the amount you have deposited in your account. First half hour free “Normally the first half an hour would cost Rs 5 but we are allowing it free as an introductory offer for the first six months,” says Khan. From the 31st to the 60th minute, the rider will be charged Rs 5 plus 18 per cent GST (Rs 5.9). From the 61st to 90th minute, it costs Rs 10 plus GST (Rs 11.8). Thereafter, every hour will be charged Rs 15 plus GST (Rs 17.7). “The final slab is the most expensive as we want to discourage people from keeping the bikes with themselves for too long. That means others are deprived from availing the cycles,” says Khan. E-cycles by year-end Besides 100 cycles now, the company will be introducing 400 e-cycles in the coming months. “An e-cycle runs on a battery that can be recharged like mobile phones,” explains Khan. “One doesn’t really need to learn riding an e-bike. One just starts pedalling and then stops as the vehicle moves automatically thereafter.” The e-bikes would move at a maximum of 25km per hour. Neither would the rider need a licence to ride this nor would the vehicle need a registration number plate. “The parking docks of these vehicles would double as charging stations and would start charging the moment a bike is returned by a rider. The fast chargers that would take an hour to charge completely. They would then travel 40km,” says Khan. Still, if a bike battery slows down mid-ride we have the pedal option. The rider can pedal the bike like a cycle to the nearest station and exchange his e-cycle for a fully charged one.” The rates for the e-cycles have not been finalised but are likely to be Rs 5 to unlock and then Rs 15 per hour. Penalty for vandals The bikes are insured and so in case of any damage in an accident the rider need not pay anything. “But we will levy penalty of Rs 5,000 if someone wilfully damages the bike or keeps the bike for more than 24 hours,” Khan says. “No one would need the bike for that long and so if someone does keep it, he may be trying to steal it.” The bikes have live GPS tracking  and so the backend office would always know where it is. Any attempt to steal the bike would be thwarted. “Our staff would go for daily rounds to work on the bikes’ maintenance. If they find any vehicles missing action would be taken,” says Khan. High hopes Sen is optimistic about the e-cycles. “People love to ride but get weary if the journey is too long. E-bikes can be the solution.” The authorities are working to increase cycle tracks in the township and talks are on to keep aside space for cycles at car parking lots too. There is 17km of cycle track now. Another cycle rental service called Pedl had launched in New Town in 2017 and despite immense popularity, was discontinued. “Their financial model was not sustainable and their docking system wasn’t fool-proof, leading to theft and misuse,” observed Sen. Chartered Bike is operational in Bhopal, Surat and Ranchi and Khan shares an anecdote from their Ranchi launch to show the faith he has in the residents of New Town. “A senior bureaucrat at the Ranchi launch had asked us to offer the cycles free of cost for the first week and we did so but it was a disaster,” he says. “People took the bikes home and used it like their personal vehicles, depriving others the chance to use them. And others, who got angry and jealous, vandalised the bikes. Compared to that, people of New Town are very civilised. All our surveys indicate that. I’m sure residents here will patronise the bike service,” says Khan. saltlake@abpmail.com||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-303
