19-09-2020||Calcutta||Online parent-teacher meetings offer relief||Many parents are relived that parent-teacher meetings are taking place online because it has reduced the waiting time to meet a teacher at school. Several schools are allocating specific time slots to parents to meet the class teacher or the subject teachers. Parents, when they would visit school to meet the teachers, would also get annoyed waiting for their turn as many of them had to rush to office, to keep an appointment at work or even go back home to attend to an elderly patient. On many occasions the queue would be largest when it came to the science or the math teacher, heads of at least two city schools said. By default the system has become more “time bound” and “forcibly streamlined”, head of a school said. “Since parents are being given specific slots it is saving time because they have to stick to that particular time. Some parents would take a long time with the teacher that would annoy the next parent, who is kept waiting,” said Meena Kak, principal of Lakshmipat Singhania Academy. Some schools are giving 10 to 15 minute slots and some of them about 45 minutes to a group of parents. In some institutions, a group of parents is entering an online platform and they are requesting the host, who is usually the class teacher, as to which subject teacher they want to meet and are being shared the link. Some schools are giving separate days to meet the class teacher and the subject teachers. “In school, parents would not want to come on multiple days. On the day of the meeting they would go from room to room to meet the different teachers, which would increase their waiting time,” said Amita Prasad, director of Indus Valley World School. “Even if schools tried to stagger the time according to roll numbers but inevitably there would be some parents who would leave without meeting some teachers,” she added. G.A. Rahaman spent only an hour talking to seven of the teachers at The Newtown School. “I was keen to talk to all teachers because my son will appear for board exams next year. It took me an hour . Had I met them in school, it would taken the entire morning and even then I would have to skip some teachers. There was hardly any waiting time at the online meeting,” said the father. Schools are also noticing better attendance of parents in the online mode unlike in school where there were more number of absentee parents especially in senior classes. “Now, in the online mode we noticed that 95 to 98 per cent parents are present for the meeting, which would vary from 65 to 75 per cent in senior classes,” said Basanti Biswas, principal of Calcutta Girls’ High School. “We have our meetings three weeks before the exams always so as to tell parents which are areas the children need to focus on.” Parents now have the freedom to log in from their workplace also and it is easier for them to maintain the time if they have a prior intimation, which is usually provided. Heads of schools felt that the online mode has “shortened” the entire interaction and is now “more to the point”. “Some parents would deliberately prolong the interaction but now it is more to the point. Some of them would repeat a question after they hear other parents asking it because they are in the same room,” said Satabdi Bhattacharjee, the principal of The Newtown School. “The new system in our school is also giving parents the comfort of more private and open interaction with the teacher where no one else can hear them,” she added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-299
19-09-2020||Calcutta||IIT Kharagpur to open on September 21 with ‘curbs’||IIT Kharagpur, which has remained closed since September 6 to stop the spread of Covid-19, will reopen on September 21 “with some restrictions as notified from time to time”. A notice signed by the institute’s registrar, B.N. Singh, announced the lifting of the closure but mentioned that “the faculty, staff and others who are staying in the campus are strictly advised to refrain from the movement out of the campus/ city/ town considering the recent increase of number of cases in the campus unless there is an emergency/exigency”. The heads of the departments/centres/schools have been asked to evolve mechanisms to restrict the entry of employees, especially those who are coming from outside the campus and staying in Covid-affected areas, after assessing the situation. “They may be asked to work from home if required,” says the notice. A blanket ban on entry into and exit from the campus, put in place on September 6, has been withdrawn, said an official. “Improvement in the situation led to the withdrawal of the closure, but a slew of safety measures will still have to be followed,” registrar Singh told The Telegraph.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-299
19-09-2020||Calcutta||Need three years to solve water problem: Firhad Hakim||A borough chairperson of the Calcutta Municipal Corporation complained about scarcity of water in Tollygunge at a meeting of ward coordinators on Friday, but board of administrators’ chairman Firhad Hakim sought three years to solve the problem citing funds crunch. Broken trident lamps and uprooted trees lying unattended since Cyclone Amphan struck on May 20 came up for discussion, too. The poor condition of some roads was another issue. This was the first time that the coordinators of all 144 wards met since April. “In the last one month, a severe potable water crisis has broken out in several wards of Tollygunge, in Borough X. The water pressure has gone down many times,” Tapan Dasgupta, the outgoing chairperson of Borough X, told Metro after the meeting. “In my own ward, places like Azadgarh, Ashiwinagar, Gandhi Colony and Bikramgarh are facing  a severe water crisis. I have raised the matter with engineers but there is no solution in sight.” Water scarcity during summer is common in pockets of Tollygunge, which still depend on underground water drawn from deep tube wells. But Dasgupta said the recent crisis has emerged in places that get potable water. Pockets of Jadavpur suffer from the same problem. Speaking to reporters after the meeting, Hakim said it would take about three years to solve the water problem of the Jadavpur-Tollygunge belt. “We are augmenting the capacity of the Dhapa water treatment plant. It produces 30 million gallon per day (MGD) now. We are working on increasing the capacity by another 20 MGD. We are also going to build a water treatment plant near Dhalai bridge (in Garia). But it needs hundreds of crores of rupees to build a plant. There is a strain in finances,” said Hakim. “We are trying but we do not know magic. I hope we will be able to provide potable water to the entire area within three years. There is no water crisis. It is that people have to depend on water drawn from deep tubewells. They do not get potable water.” Several coordinators complained about bad roads and broken street lights. Jui Biswas, the coordinator of Ward 81 in New Alipore, spoke about trident lights lying damaged since Amphan. There are damaged trident lights along Pramatha Chaudhuri Sarani.. Broken trident lamp stands can be found along Bankim Mukherjee Sarani, too,” she said. Ratna Roy Majumdar, a ward coordinator from Behala, requested the board to take up repairs of a 2km stretch of Biren Roy Road (West), between Bakultala and Nutanhat.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-300
19-09-2020||Calcutta||Sharbari Datta brought fashion to the Indian man||Every time I would drop by her Broad Street residence for an interview, which would more often be a straight-from-the-heart adda lasting hours, she would be seated on one particular intricately carved wooden chair in her home studio, nestling her cup of tea, and urging me to munch on the carefully laid-out platter of snacks in front of me. The chat would essentially be followed up with a lunch, often cooked by her with keen care for my preferences. Hospitable, humble and immensely talented — that was Sharbaridi for me, whom the world knew as the legendary menswear designer Sharbari Datta. Rightfully credited to have introduced the Indian man to the world of fashion, Datta started her journey in designing rather informally in 1991 with a small exhibition that received unexpected commercial success. One exhibition led to another and the Sharbari brand was born. The first Indian fashion brand that solely focussed on men’s clothing. “I always felt that Indian men were very inhibited when it came to dressing up. Due to the colonial hangover, the British influence, we always considered grey, pale blue or navy blue as the masculine colours that make for smart outfits. But nowhere else is it so. Be it Japan or Africa or Afghanisthan or Pakistan… the men always dress in bright colours… so are they feminine? I wanted to prove that there’s no clash between masculinity and bright colours. Our Indian tradition in menswear is of bright colours and nakshas. So why have we ignored it completely? A three-piece suit is not the only fashion statement for an Indian man. He can also make a statement in traditional Indian clothes,” she had told The Telegraph in an earlier interview, when asked about her bold decision to tread uncharted territory. With hand-embroidery over hand-sketched motifs that drew inspiration from rustic and folk cultures as the mainstay, the Sharbari Datta school of design became the go-to for the Calcutta man for his wedding outfit, who even dared to don the brightly coloured dhoti that she introduced, breaking the norm of the beige or white piece of traditional drape. Not just Calcutta, her unique aesthetics drew men from all parts of the country — from Ismail Merchant (among her first celebrity clients) to Sunil Gavaskar, Imran Khan, Sachin Tendulkar, Shoaib Akhtar, Sourav Ganguly, Leander Paes to Abhishek Bachchan and many other Bollywood and Tollywood stars, they have all proudly worn a Sharbari creation. But the artist in her was always that wee bit more excited when somebody from the art world would choose to wear her creations. “I feel extra special when artists buy my work. Since I consider my work as artwear, I have felt that my work has been certified when people like M.F. Husain, Ganesh Pyne, Manjit Bawa, Paresh Maity and Bikash Bhattacharya have bought my clothes,” Datta had told us. Datta was the daughter of famous poet Ajit Datta. Showcasing her work in exhibitions across the world and winning innumerable awards — including The Telegraph She Awards in the Creative Art category in 2016 — Sharbari became a name to reckon with in the Indian fashion fraternity. Conquering the world from her home studio, she resolutely refused to expand into other areas of design, keeping her focus firmly on menswear for the most part of her career. “I have always refused to diversify into other areas. I have always been very focussed. Menswear is a very difficult area because men are difficult to deal with when it comes to fashion. Most of them are rigid and not adventurous. Women are much more open and receptive, so that’s a much easier area,” she would tell us. In 2017, Datta distanced herself from her brand Sharbari Studio, which she co-owned along with her son Amalin Datta and daughter-in-law Kanaklata Datta. She launched another brand called Shunyaa, along with partners, making the signature Sharbari aesthetics its design DNA. With an opulent store in Hindusthan Park, Sharbari had built a new world for herself. But for me, the picture of Sharbaridi that would remain forever etched in my heart would be of her sitting on that intricately carved wooden chair in her home studio, nestling her cup of tea while chatting her heart out.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-300
19-09-2020||Calcutta||Gang of 4 fires, hurls bombs  at cafe||Four men fired and hurled bombs at a cafe-cum-restaurant on Nasiruddin Road, in the Karaya area, early on Friday in an alleged attempt to seek revenge on the owner over a dispute, police said. None of the bullets fired hit anyone. An employee of Aladdin Reloaded Cafe and Restaurant suffered injuries on his head after being attacked by the butt of a firearm. The incident happened around 1.30am. Police said the cafe-cum-restaurant was illegally open past the permissible time. “The four men, led by Nishat Haider, 23, a resident of Shamsul Huda Road, fired at least three bullets in the air and hurled four bombs. They were looking for the owner of the place, Rahul Singh. The owner was not there. That further angered the men and they started firing in the air. Luckily, no one was injured,” an officer at Lalbazar said. The gang allegedly assaulted Mohammad Amin, the manager of the restaurant, and another employee before fleeing. Police have found CCTV footage that shows the men entering the place and leaving. While leaving, one is seen hurling a bomb at the restaurant and another rushing out with a gun in his hand. During inquiry, the police reportedly found that the attack was the outcome of an altercation that took place a few days ago. “Haider was drinking in a public place when someone protested. Haider had thought that it was the owner of Aladdin Cafe and Restaurant who had protested,” an investigator said. No one was arrested till Friday evening.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-300
19-09-2020||Calcutta||UGC nod for open-book test with  3-hour rider||The UGC has told Calcutta University that it is free to hold open-book exams as part of the end semester/ final-year test “so long as they are timed for two or three hours”, an official said. If the institution allows more time, the UGC said, the evaluation will not be categorised as an exam. The UGC letter reached CU on September 16, two weeks after the university had announced that it would conduct open-book exams for final-year undergraduate students and give them 24 hours to upload the answers. The official said the faculty councils for undergraduate and postgraduate studies met on Friday and resolved “to abide by the UGC directive”. “The UGC took note of the CU’s decision and said the open-book assignment can be held so long as it is timed for two or three hours, not 24 hours,” he said. Repeated calls to vice-chancellor Sonali Chakravarti Banerjee went unanswered. She did not respond to text messages from this newspaper either.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-300
19-09-2020||Calcutta||JU allots  Rs 16 lakh to bridge digital gap ||A Jadavpur University committee has allocated Rs 16 lakh out of a corpus Rs 21 lakh to buy students smartphones and data packs this month so no one misses out on digital education and exams, said an official of the institute. A 10-member committee at its second meeting held on Thursday decided that 200 students would be bought smartphones with each set costing Rs 6,000. “While Rs 12 lakh will be spent on buying smartphones, another Rs 4 lakh will go into buying 800-odd students data packs,” said JU registrar Snehamanju Basu, the convenor of the committee. The students will be bought data packs for three months and the university will have their packs recharged after students share details of their service providers. The meeting also discussed the possibility of engaging couriers to send study materials to those who live in remote locations that do not have any Internet connectivity. “The proposals were discussed whether audio and video CDs of lectures could be couriered to those students, considering the extreme constraints they are encountering. We have to see how far this would be feasible,” said Basu.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-300
19-09-2020||Calcutta||Air India London flight to go via Mumbai||Air India, which had promised a direct Calcutta-London evacuation flight, has decided to operate it as a hopping flight with a stopover in Mumbai till the Heathrow airport authorities allot a slot for the non-stop flight, an official of the airline said. Heathrow had refused a slot for the first direct Calcutta-London flight on Thursday. As a result, the flight got delayed by four hours and went as a hopping flight with a three-hour stopover in Delhi. The next flight from London is supposed to arrive in Calcutta on Sunday and take off the same day. Both flights will operate through Mumbai, Air India officials said on Friday. “Till we get the slot for the direct flight, it will continue to operate via Mumbai. We are in constant talks with the Heathrow authorities for the slot,” a spokesperson for Air India said on Friday. “The waiting time in Mumbai is much less compared to Delhi, so we have decided to operate the flight through Mumbai.” The waiting time in Mumbai is less than an hour, the spokesperson said. Air India had announced a twice-a-week direct flight between Calcutta and London under the Vande Bharat programme (evacuation) till October 24. On Friday, Metro had reported how passengers faced harassment and were delayed by six-and-a-half hours to reach London. Air India claimed that Heathrow had cancelled the slot at the last moment, forcing a change in schedule. But an official of an international airline had said slots were booked well in advance. An airline opens bookings only after the slot is secured, the official said. Tour operators have criticised Air India’s decision to convert a direct flight into a hopping one. “Passengers had booked seats for direct flights. Now, they are suffering because of the unprofessional attitude of Air India. They could have booked evacuation flights through Delhi or Mumbai at convenient times,” said Anil Punjabi, chairman, east, Travel Agents Federation of India. “Around 8am on Thursday, I had called a senior Air India official to find out about the status of the flight because someone known to me was travelling. The official said he was at the airport in a meeting and would call me back shortly. That call is yet to come,” Punjabi said on Friday evening. Calcutta airport officials said flights operated by Emirates and SpiceJet under the air-transport bubble agreement were operating according to schedule. Both airlines are operating flights between Calcutta and Dubai. Under the arrangement, a select number of commercial flights are allowed between two countries.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-300
19-09-2020||Calcutta||Zoos in Bengal to reopen on October 2||Zoos in Bengal, shut since March 17 in the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic, will be open from October 2, the government said on Friday and released a set of guidelines for the reopening. Tickets have to be booked online. “The zoos will have to work out the number of visitors they can allow according to their area and infrastructure,” said V.K. Yadav, the chief wildlife warden of Bengal. Officials at the Alipore zoo said they were planning to cap the daily visitor count at 5,000. An official said “the cap will be revised in the peak months as the Covid situation is dynamic”. The Padmaja Naidu Himalayan Zoological Park in Darjeeling and Bengal Safari Park in Siliguri are also set to open from October 2. Bengal has around a dozen zoos. The guidelines state everyone on the premises has to wear a mask and the footfall in the cafeterias cannot be more than 30 per cent of the capacity. The guidelines also include Covid-19 protocols that have to be followed in forests, national parks and sanctuaries, which will be open for visitors from September 23. All tourist vehicles will have one seat vacant between two passengers and the number of visitors on a watch tower in a forest will not be over 20. For now, elephant safaris are banned.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-300
19-09-2020||Calcutta||Virus break in rajbari tradition||This will be the first time since Maharaja Naba Krishna Deb started Durga Puja at his chhoto rajbari in Sovabazar more than 200 years ago that visitors will not be allowed to witness the puja. Reason: Covid-19. Family members said maintaining social distance and other safety norms would be impossible if visitors are allowed on the premises during the puja. Naba Krishna had started Durga Puja at his palace in Sovabazar in 1757, the year of the Battle of Plassey. He had adopted Gopi Mohan, his brother’s son, as his son. Later, when his son Raj Krishna was born, Naba Krishna built a second palace in Sovabazar and started performing Durga Puja there in 1790. The second palace — 36 Raja Naba Krishna Street — is known as chhoto rajbari. “For the first time in the 230-year-old history of our puja at chhoto rajbari that visitors won’t be allowed,” said Tirthankar Deb, a descendant of Raj Krishna. “The rituals will remain unaltered but it will not be possible to welcome guests. It will then be impossible to maintain the safety norms,” Deb added. The Debs will issue identity cards to the over 350 members of the family so outsiders don’t get to enter the mansion, a heritage structure. In another break with tradition, the idols will be carried on a trailer to the Hooghly for immersion. In previous years, 32 men used to carry the idols on their shoulders from the mansion to the river. “For us the Durga Puja of Sovabazar rajbari means the pujas at both palaces,” said Soumit Narayan Deb, a descendant of Gopi Mohan. “The puja at the first palace will be stepping into its 263rd year this time. Visitors are welcome to the palace but they cannot step on the thakur dalan (the place where the deity is worshipped).”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-300
19-09-2020||Calcutta||Second cut in ISC-ICSE syllabi||The Council for Indian School Certificate Examinations (CISCE) has curtailed the syllabuses for Classes X and XII students who will take their board exams next year after taking into account findings of a survey on the progress of online teaching. The ICSE and ISC syllabuses were first reduced in July. The authorities decided on the second cut in view of the “significant loss” of teaching hours because of the closure of the schools forced by the Covid-19 pandemic. “In view of the continuing pandemic situation and significant loss of instructional hours during this academic year, and based on the findings of the online survey conducted by the CISCE on the Status of Online Teaching and the Extent of Syllabus Covered in its affiliated schools, it has been decided to make further reduction in selected Syllabi at the ICSE and ISC levels for the Examination Year 2021 (i.e. for Classes X and XII),” a circular issued by the council reads. When the syllabus was curtailed in July, many students and teachers had complained that the reduction was not significant. As for the second reduction, some teachers called it “quite significant”. This time the authorities have dropped Act V of Shakespeare’s Merchant of Venice from the Class X English literature syllabus. Students appearing in the 2021 ICSE exams are required to study the play till Act IV. But some teachers said they would advise the Class X students to read the entire play. “A play has to be read in totality and it cannot end abruptly. We will ask students to read the entire play. They must understand the whole context even if they are not tested on a particular portion,” said Joseph Chacko, an English teacher at St James’ School. In July, the council had only excluded one poem and one short story from the ICSE English literature syllabus. One more poem and short story have been left out this time, which means students will have to read eight poems and as many short stories. The revised syllabuses have been posted on the CISCE portal. The council has directed the schools to accept projects students have already completed on subjects that have been left out. The council had last month asked its schools to provide information on the strategies and methods adopted by them to conduct online teaching and the extent of the curricula covered. The feedback from the schools were taken into consideration when the council decided to curtail the syllabuses for a second time, the principal of a Calcutta school said. The council found that many schools, particularly in districts, had not taught the sections they are supposed to by September, the principal of another school said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-300
19-09-2020||Calcutta||Sharbari Datta found dead at home||Fashion designer Sharbari Datta was found dead in the ground floor washroom of her Broad Street home late on Thursday night. She was 78. Police said they would be able to comment on the cause of death only after they receive the post-mortem report in the next three to four days. Police sources privy to the preliminary post-mortem findings said it appeared to be a case of stroke. Officers of Karaya police station have started an unnatural death case. Datta is suspected to have died early on Thursday morning. She was found dead more than 12 hours after she passed away when her daughter-in-law went downstairs to look for her. Before that, Sharbari’s granddaughter had tried in vain to reach her over the phone. While Datta lived in the ground floor, her only son Amalin Datta, daughter-in-law Kanaklata and the couple’s two children stayed in the first floor of the house on  Broad Street. Datta, daughter of renowned Bengali poet Ajit Dutta, was married to Alokemoy Datta who passed away a few years ago. Sources close to the family said Datta and her son had a strained relationship, and she was allegedly “coerced” to give her eponymous menswear label “Sharbari” to him. She had started a new label, Shunyaa, with a sprawling store in Hindustan Park but that business shut down during the pandemic. “… the pandemic made her go into a depression. Her shop had to be closed, her production had to be halted and without any occupation, the loveless situation was gnawing at her,” Ananya Chakraborti, Datta’s friend and chairperson of the  West Bengal Commission for Protection of Child Rights, wrote in a letter to joint commissioner, crime, of Calcutta police Murlidhar Sharma. Datta had not stepped out of her room on Thursday for breakfast, lunch or dinner. Her son and his family said they thought she was not home at all. “This is absolutely a normal practice in our home that she would step out without informing us. So there was no question of getting worried when she did not appear for her brunch or dinner. We thought that since it was Vishwakarma Puja, she was out visiting her units. But when it was quite late and we were about to lock the main gate like we do every day, we called her to ask when she would be back. We made multiple calls which went unanswered,” Datta’s son Amalin told Metro. Amalin said they had a common kitchen in the ground floor. He said he last saw his mother take dinner and retire in her room on Wednesday night. Around 11am on Thursday, one of their household staff apparently saw through an open window of Datta’s room that the bed was empty. “We presumed that she had gone out. Then around 3.30pm, when another staff member reminded my wife that she (Datta) had not come out of her room even for her lunch, my wife had opened the door of her room in the afternoon and seen that the lights were off and the bed was empty, just the way she keeps when she goes out,” Amalin added. He said even when the room was locked, he, his wife and Datta knew a way to turn the handle so that it could open the door without any key. Amalin said they tried calling her thrice in the day but did not receive any response. Several hours later, around 11pm, when it was time to close the main gate, the family called her again. With no response, Amalin’s wife Kanaklata entered Datta’s room. “Kanaklata switched on the lights…. Then my wife found my mother in the washroom,” he added. The family called their physician who advised them to take her to a hospital, Kanaklata said. They called several relatives after that and finally Karaya police station. That call went around 12.40am on Friday. She told the police that her mother-in-law had fallen and that she needed help to rescue her. By the time a team of officers reached her home, Datta had been removed from the washroom and laid in the drawing room, the police said. Datta was taken to the Calcutta National Medical College and Hospital, where she was declared dead. There was a cut on her toe,  which could have been caused by a broken bathroom floor tile where a bloodstain was found, the police sources said. Several questions have emerged surrounding the circumstances of her death and her estranged relationship with her son. In her letter to the police officer, Chakraborti, the child rights panel chief, wrote: “Sharbari Datta was a dear friend…. She had confided in me several times… how they (son and daughter-in-law) had taken away everything from her, her wealth, her property, her brand and was paying her a small allowance… She also said how she had been coerced into signing off everything in the favour of her son and daughter-in-law. While narrating her plight, she would often break down uncontrollably.” She added: “To be oblivious of her state lying unconscious in the same house for over 15 hours speaks volumes about the neglect and emotional abuse that she must have been going through.” Datta’s son said it was a “huge shock” for him to lose his mother and the person with whom he had worked on so many projects. “Last week only we all went to Santiniketan to draw up a plan on how to develop a property. Everyone was so happy to see us together,” he recalled.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-300
