20-09-2020||Calcutta||Nothing to do with AI slot: Heathrow authorities||Heathrow Airport had “nothing to do” with Air India’s direct evacuation flight from Calcutta to London not getting a slot there, the UK airport authorities have said in email to The Telegraph. Metro had written to Heathrow Airport asking why the slot for AI1149 Calcutta-Heathrow on Thursday (September 17) had been cancelled. The flight had to go via Delhi, and passengers were delayed by six-and-a- half hours and had to remain on the plane for three hours at Delhi airport. “I’ve double checked this with my operational colleagues and this issue had nothing to do with Heathrow,” Delia Williams-Falokun, senior press officer of Heathrow Airport, wrote in response. Asked on Saturday by The Telegraph, an Air India official shifted the blame on the Civil Aviation Authority (CAA), the UK equivalent of India’s directorate general of civil aviation or DGCA. To get a slot at the London airport an airline has to seek permission from Heathrow Airport and the CAA, he said. “Heathrow had given the slot but there was some confusion over getting permission from the CAA. At the last moment, Heathrow pointed out that the necessary clearance from CAA was not available and so they had rejected the slot, earlier given,” the Air India official said. “If Heathrow would have pointed out that the CAA permission had not come, then there could be persuasion from our side.” Officials of several airlines, however, told Metro that getting clearances from the airport and the civil aviation regulatory body was the airline’s responsibility. “We first get the slots at Calcutta airport for a particular flight and the permission from the DGCA before opening the bookings,” an official of an international airline that operates out of Calcutta said. An official of another airline said getting a slot confirmed by the airport and the regulatory authorities was the basic criteria. Every airline has a dedicated team for that. “In the pre-Covid times, slots and permissions were taken months ahead. Now, there are permissions taken at shorter notice and so, the team has to work that extra hard to coordinate with the depart-ments concerned,” the official said. Air India had announced twice-a-week evacuation flights under the Vande Bharat programme till October 24. But the first flight could not go directly to Heathrow and instead had to make a three-hour stopover at Delhi. The flight was delayed by four hours in Calcutta before that. The Air India spokesperson had then said: “Last minute non-availability of slots at Heathrow Airport was communicated to us late on September 16 evening. This was something beyond our control as we had been assured of a slot till the sudden communication of its non-availability by the Heathrow authorities.” On Sunday, the flight will go via Mumbai where the stopover time is less than an hour. “We have already said that Air India could not fly direct to London from Calcutta because of last-moment slot constraints and non-availability of all the permissions. It is hoped that direct flights will operate soon with the green lights from the authorities,” the Air India spokesperson said on Saturday. Till the permission is received, the flight will continue to go via Mumbai, the spokesperson said. “Had Air India told passengers in advance about the fact that all permissions had not been taken, passengers would have had the choice of book-ing other flights with convenient timings,” Anil Punjabi, chairman, east, Travel Agents’ Federation of India, said. “Clear communication was lacking on behalf of the airline.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-299
20-09-2020||Calcutta||Heavy rain forecast ||The city is tipped to get heavy rain between Sunday and Monday under the influence of a low-pressure system over Northeastern Bay of Bengal, the Met office has said. The first half of Sunday is likely to be hot and humid. The sky is set to change colours from the second half. The rain is expected to be accompanied by gusts of wind clocking 30kmph and above as the system crosses over or is close to Calcutta, said a Met official.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-299
20-09-2020||Calcutta||Majerhat cable work starts||The work of laying cables for the Majerhat bridge began on Saturday, setting the final stage for the key link in south Calcutta to be thrown open. Eighty-four cables brought from Switzerland will hold the 260m deck slab of the bridge that is coming up at the site where a portion of the previous bridge had collapsed on September 4, 2018. This will be the third cable-stayed flyover after Vidyasagar Setu and Nivedita Setu. If things go according to plan, the new bridge will be ready for use by year end, according to engineers working at the site. Before that there will be a series of complex calculations to understand how the cables are functioning and if there is any major deviation from the expected load-bearing capacity of each cable, a PWD engineer said. The first stage of the cable-laying exercise will involve connecting each to the pylon and the deck slab below and then exerting stress from the top using a stress-imparting machine, the PWD engineer said. The load bearing capacity of the deck slab will be carefully scrutinised under various conditions and the results will be compiled and sent to IIT Bombay and the railways. The response is expected to reach the state government by mid-October. Apart from engineers of the PWD and the Haryana-based firm contracted to build the bridge, a team of Swiss engineers from the company that has provided the cables have reached Calcutta to oversee the installation work. “Beneath each cable sheath will be a cluster of 19 to 43 strands. Only 40 per cent of the total load-bearing capacity of each of the cables will be utilised here,” another PWD engineer said. The PWD is overseeing the execution of the project. “So, bearing vehicular load will never be a challenge even in future,” the engineer said. A cable-stayed bridge had emerged as the best possible solution among all designs proposed for the new Majerhat bridge, a portion of which will be over the rail tracks. The bridge is adjacent to the ongoing Joka-BBD Bag Metro project. After the design was cleared at all levels, the state government had sanctioned an additional Rs 21 crore, taking the total project cost to Rs 200 crore. “We will use the most advanced technology to study the health of each of the cables and each of the strands under a sheath,” the PWD engineer said. “There will be a health monitoring system where one can receive updates regarding the slightest variation in the cable’s load-bearing capacity through mail and text messages.” While the installation of the cables is on, four service roads adjoining the new bridge will be readied by November so that by the bridge can be commissioned by the year end, the engineer said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-299
20-09-2020||Calcutta||Dissent to find voice again on Wednesday||The arrest of Umar Khalid. The NIA summons to scientist Partha Sarathi Ray. Pushing a farm bill “inimical” to farmers’ interests. The coronavirus had put the brakes on the massive protests in the city against the new citizenship regime. A series of “anti-people decisions” by the Centre “in the backdrop of the pandemic” has triggered a call to revive the movement against the Centre. A string of organisations, which were at the forefront of the rallies against the Citizenship Amendment Act, the National Population Register and the National Register of Citizens, will have members assembling at the Phoolbagan crossing at 4pm on September 23. The key demands that will be raised at the “Assembly against RSS/BJP” are: ⚫Withdrawal of NRC-NPR-CAA ⚫Immediate and unconditional release of political prisoners ⚫Steps to curb rising unemployment “Under the garb of the pandemic, the government is taking one anti-people decision after another; and in the process, trying to throttle the mass movement against the citizenship thrust,” a statement issued by the organisers said. Representatives of various student organisations and citizens’ forums held a meeting on College Street on September 13 to discuss how to revive the mass movement against the Centre. “Over the past few months, the Centre has used the pandemic to stifle dissent. The perpetrators of Delhi riots are free. People fighting for the Constitution are being jailed,” Soumya Sahin, a political activist who is among the organisers of Wednesday’s assembly, said. Sahin, an assistant professor at the National University of Juridical Sciences, cited how poor students missed the JEE Mains and NEET exams because they were caught in the middle of the pandemic. “This is the politics of exclusion. The same exclusionary tactic is fuelling the citizenship thrust. We have reached a stage where hitting the streets is the only option.” Biplab Bhattacharya of “No NRC” movement said the state exchequer had been “sustaining itself by selling PSUs”. “Unemployment is at its peak. Farmers are protesting against the new bills. And the government is busy with Ram Mandir and vote-bank politics. We have to fight this government with full strength… it can’t be done sitting at home.” Prasenjit Bose, a convener of the Joint Forum Against NRC, said the Centre had made it clear in the past few months that it would use the pandemic to crack down on the Opposition. September 23 will be the “first step” towards a renewed people’s movement, he said. “The protests will be scaled up in the coming days,” Bose of the Joint Forum Against NRC said. Last winter was marked by protests against the NRC-NPR-CAA across the city. The rallies were not marked by political flags but Tricolours and passionate slogans. People from all faiths and various walks of life had joined in the protests “to save the values embedded in the Constitution”. At the forefront of the protests were women, many of them in burqas and hijabs. If Park Circus Maidan — witness to a marathon women-led vigil against the citizenship thrust — was Calcutta’s Shaheen Bagh, mini demonstrations had been held on Zakaria Street, in Kidderpore, Rajabazar and many other places. “It is a moment of extreme empowerment and liberation… especially for young Muslim women and I think it’s just beautiful,” author Arundhati Roy had told a Calcutta audience in January. The protests stopped when the pandemic struck.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-299
20-09-2020||Calcutta||CU to follow UGC exam time directive||Calcutta University on Saturday decided to give two-three hours to final-year undergraduate and postgraduate examinees to answer questions and another 30 minutes to upload the answers, as directed by the University Grants Commission (UGC). The university had earlier said that students would get 24 hours to upload answers. The university syndicate, which is its highest policy-making body, on Saturday decided to change the earlier decision of giving 24 hours to students to upload answers. The UGC had recently said in a letter to the university that it was free to hold end semester/final-year open-book exams but the exams would have to be “timed for two or three hours”. If an institution allowed more time, the evaluation will not be categorised as an exam, the UGC had told the university. The Calcutta University syndicate decided that the final-year undergraduate and postgraduate examinations will be held in accordance with all instructions issued by the UGC. “The final year BA and BSc exams and the BCom end-semester exams will be held following the exact instructions of the UGC. The university will go through the UGC instructions indetail before conducting the examinations,” a member of the syndicate told this newspaper after the meeting on Saturday. According to the UGC instructions, exams can be of two-hour duration for some subjects and three-hour for some, a university official said. Half an hour extra can be given to students to upload the answers in addition to the two or three hours allottedfor answering questions, the official said. The UGC has given some “clear” instructions on what the university shall do if an exam is held for two hours or three hours. The pro-vice chancellorof academic affairs has calleda meeting with principals of its colleges on Monday to discuss how to conduct the exams smoothly while following the UGC instructions. The meeting will be held in two phases on the university’s Rajabazar science college campus, a university official said. The postgraduate departments have been asked tohold meetings with subject teachers and to go through the UGC instructions forconducting the exams. The undergraduate and postgraduate exams will start on October 1 and continuetill October 8. The results will be declared within October 30. The UGC letter had reached Calcutta University on September 16, two weeks after the university had announced that it would conduct open-book exams for final-year students and give them 24 hours to upload answers. The faculty council for undergraduate and postgraduate studies met on Friday and resolved “to abide by the UGC directive”. Calcutta University on Saturday extended the last date of completing the admission of students to its undergraduate colleges from September 25 to October 30. The university took the decision after many colleges said a large number of seats had been lying vacant in various subjects for want of takers. Repeated calls to university vice-chancellor Sonali Chakravarti Banerjee went unanswered. Sukumar Mukherjee, veteran doctor (centre) and Satyam Roychowdhury, the managing director of Techno India Group (right), at the opening of Techno Global Hospital (Salt Lake). The Subodh Mitra Cancer Hospital and Research Centre has been acquired by the Techno India Group and is being “restructured into a multispecialty centre of medical excellence”, an official of the group said. The medical team is being mentored by Mukherjee. The first phase of the institute — a 40-bedded hospital with “urgent care” facilities — opened its doors on Thursday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-299
20-09-2020||Calcutta||Lordship in the corner  ||Of the Devi’s squad — the five members of the Durga Family who visit Bengal in autumn — I have always had a soft corner for Kartik. Priests, politicians, Puja organisers, dhaakis et al. fawn over the goddess; matronly women devotees cast longing looks at the portly Ganesh; the forever struggling Bengali businessman prostrates himself in front of Lakshmi; children pray fervently at Saraswati’s feet. But not much fuss is made about Kartik; he stands forlorn, perched on his peacock, in the far-right corner of the pandals. Kartik’s lack of admirers may have something to do with his distinctly non-martial legacy in this part of the world. On reaching Bengal, the fierce Murugan, the stud of southern India, gets transformed into the indolent dandy that was the Bengali babu of the late 19th century. The bhadralok’s condescension for Kartik could also be attributed to the deity’s popularity in the abhadra sphere. Even today, Calcutta’s Kartik Pujas, a handful, remain relegated to the red-light precincts of Durga Charan Mitra Street, Abinash Kabiraj Street, Masjidbari Street and so on. But the god of war seems to have found his redemption about 45 kilometres away from the city — in Bansberia in Hooghly. Calcutta has Durga; Chandannagore adores Jagaddhatri; Bansberia, on the other hand, deifies Kartik. “Approximately 350 Kartik Pujas took place in the month of Kartik,” informed Rana, one of the young members of Milan Pally. The club celebrated its 61st Kartik Puja last year. A local journalist — Hooghly has been his “beat” for years — is convinced that sponsorship and political patronage have played a role in the rise in the number of such pujas as well as public interest in these festivities in recent times. Rupchand Pal, a former parliamentarian and an erudite resident, offered two different strands of thought to explain Bansberia’s veneration of Kartik. The mix of history and myth is evident in both lines of reasoning. “Bansberia is believed to be one of the seven villages that constituted Saptagram, the flourishing port-town in early medieval Bengal. One constituency that patronised Saptagram is thought to be of sailors from Tamil Nadu who were traditional worshippers of Kartik. Another contention is that the tradition in Bansberia, which coincides with the onset of the Raas festival, may have begun under the influence of the festivities in Katwa in neighbouring Burdwan.” A singular aspect of the Kartik festival in Katwa is a ritual known as “Kartik-er lorai”, in which participants play-act the notion of conflict in recognition of the martial roots of the god. Bansberia, unlike Calcutta, is respectful of Kartik’s diverse roops (forms). “Several kinds of Kartik are worshipped here,” Pal pointed out patiently. There is, according to one quip, “General Kartik” — this idol has two sentries on either side. “We also have the Babu Kartik, representing the Bengali landed elite,” Pal added. Apparently, some of the idols portray aesthetic elements that are integral to Kannada sculpture, highlighting another underexplored connection with the land south of the Vindhyas. Recently, Bansberia had surprised even the veteran watcher Pal with a Kartik who sported denims and held a gun. Conversations and interviews with respondents show that much of the history of Bansberia’s Kartik Puja is an amalgamation of urban lore. Ironically, this underscores the paucity of research in some of the Little Traditions that are prevalent in provincial West Bengal. Hearteningly, there are textual sources that are waiting to be mined. “The writings of Munindra Deb Roy, a pioneering figure in the library movement within and outside India, could shed some interesting light since he lived in Bansberia and wrote extensively on such matters,” stated Pal. Of late, gods and goddesses have been falling like nine-pins before the majoritarian wave in India. Maryada Purushottam has already been taken. Could Kartik go the same way, given that Hooghly had chosen the lotus in the last parliamentary polls? Pal disagreed. “Bansberia’s socio-economic texture is an important factor here. It has had a strong working class lineage, given its history as a centre of trade, from jute mills to indigo plantations earlier. It is this communitarian link that acts as a shield against the majoritarian surge in recent times.” Little wonder then that Kartik has, since time immemorial, been perceived as a symbol of unity, serving as a bridge connecting Shaivism, Buddhism and Dravidian theology. He still stands as a sentinel of harmony in a polarised country. Bansberia can vouch for that.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-299
20-09-2020||Calcutta||Basti ki Pathshala||Surojit Sinha lives in Balidweep in Bengal’s South 24-Parganas. His father works in bheris, or fishponds, and fisheries. Some days Surojit fills in for him. But in the long run he wants to become an engineer, wants to “fit” his village with a certain kind of electric line, the kind that will survive super cyclones. He also wants to make mobile phone batteries that won’t discharge too fast. Surojit, a student of Class IX, travels 10 kilometres daily to school and back. But since the pandemic outbreak, school has been shut. Aisha Khatun’s situation is somewhat different from Surojit’s. She is 13, lives in a slum in south Calcutta and attends school. She is in Class VI. She has a constant fear that her father, a rickshaw puller, and mother, a domestic help, will not be able to afford it for long, and will sooner than later marry her off. Even before Prime Minister Narendra Modi announced the nationwide lockdown beginning March 25, schools across India had shut down. A couple of weeks down the line some started online classes, but not everyone has access to those. Surojit attends a government school 110 kilometres from Calcutta; Aisha too goes to a government school. No MP or legislator thought to make an alternative arrangement for them. And then, enter Prithibir Pathshala. Prithibir Pathshala roughly translates to school of the world. It is an initiative by a group of past and present students across universities in Calcutta — Calcutta University, Jadavpur University, Presidency University, Indian Statistical Institute and so on and so forth. Some members of Prithibir Pathshala had participated in relief operations under the banner “Students of Bengal” during the 2015 Nepal earthquake, the Kerala floods of 2018 and the Delhi riots earlier this year. Post the corona-induced lockdown, the group reinvented itself as Quarantined Student Youth Network or QSYN and started reaching out to people in need. Immediately after super cyclone Amphan struck in May, the volunteers travelled to interior Bengal and that is when it stared them in the face — the education gap. Debojit Thakur, who is an alumnus of Presidency, says, “We witnessed first-hand how an entire generation of underprivileged children was affected.” Debojit, who is currently a PhD student of Germany’s Karl Marx University of Trier, has been in town the last two months. Recalls Bandana Mondal, a former student of Presidency, “We were distributing rations in Kulpi, South 24-Parganas, when an old lady came up to us and said — ‘What is the point of one-time help? If possible educate our children.’” That was July. Since then, more than 103 volunteers have been teaching 810 children, aged 10 to 16, across 21 such pathshalas in Calcutta, North and South 24-Parganas, Bankura, Malda and Howrah. “It wasn’t very difficult to reach out to people because in most of these areas we were involved in some kind of initiative through ration distribution, people’s kitchens or medical camps,” says Debojit. It seems locals came forward to help, each in their own way. In Dum Dum, the authorities of a local club offered to turn one of its rooms into a classroom. In Uluberia, the headmaster of a primary school let them use a room in the school building. In other places, such as Baghajatin, where there was no infrastructure, volunteers bought tin and bamboo and built pathshalas. The student composition varies — children of migrant workers, daily wagers, slum-dwellers, tea-estate workers in Alipurduar, those from the tribal community in Bankura and in the North and South 24-Parganas. The majority of them have a fleeting childhood; it would be no exaggeration to say that many enter India’s invisible workforce before they have lost their milk teeth. Their parents do not have the wherewithal to fund their education. Once in a while, short-term drawing or dance classes are organised by some NGOs. Armaan’s home is one of the sidewalks of north Calcutta’s College Street area. He went to the local corporation school for some years. He had to stop when his parents couldn’t afford the fees anymore. Armaan, who loves maths, would thereafter practise sums from his old school textbooks ad nauseum. Armaan has started attending the College Street pathshala which has children from Kalabagan basti and other neighbouring slums. Koushani Mukhopadhyay, a second-year student of the performing arts department of Presidency who teaches there, recalls one class where the students spoke of how their books were washed away by the super cyclone. She says, “Even the memory had Armaan in tears.” Bandana teaches in the Patuli and Baghajatin pathshalas. In Patuli, most of the children come from the slum near the railway tracks. Aiswarya Dev Goswami teaches in Patrasayer, Bankura, a jungle area dotted with tribal villages. The students speak Santhali. The nearest primary school is two kilometres away and the high school, five kilometres away. During sowing season even the children work on the fields. Says Aiswarya, “Some days we have only two students and some days there are 20. Even before Covid-19, many have lost their parents as there is no access to basic healthcare. Children are not motivated much to study but they are trying.” Shrabani Hembrom, a Class VII student at the Patrasayer pathshala wants to become a nurse when she grows up. Bandana says, “We have no idea how they study, what they have been through, what conversations they hear, what the role of their parents is.” Reeaz Hasan Mollah, an engineering student at Jadavpur University, teaches in Howrah’s Chengail and Panchla pathshalas, where most of the students are children of zari karigars and jute mill workers. He says, “One day, while teaching them life sciences and the requisite calorie intake for humans, I watched them make the connection with their own lives. There I was telling them that a healthy diet should have this, that and the other, and one by one they started to ask me if that meant their own meals were deficient.” Koushani, who travels from Barrackpore to College Street to teach, recalls the day of the solar eclipse. She says, “As we spoke to them about the science behind it, they told us about their idea of the day picked up from their immediate environment — ‘not auspicious’, ‘a day of no cooking’, and ‘kirtans’.” A recurring fear among the girls seems to be that they will be married off and not be allowed to complete their education. Says 21-year-old Reeaz, “They convince their parents and fight for education. Education for them is a privilege.” A resident of Howrah, Zulekha, loves life sciences and literature. She has seen some older girls from her neighbourhood become teachers and she too wants to become one. Another student, Rimpa, is not very good at the lessons but she tells Reeaz, who is from the same neighbourhood, “Bhaiyya, like you, I will also go to Calcutta to study.” But what is Prithibir Pathshala? Are the classes daily affairs or something for weekends only? Does this aspire to dovetail into one school board or the other? Or is this some kind of a stop-gap charity work? Is this going to last beyond Covid-19? What about funding? The questions abound. And from the sound of it, the answers are still evolving. “This is a long-term initiative,” says Saikat Sit, a volunteer and a student of civil engineering at Jadavpur University. Prithibir Pathshala and its network is not affiliated to any board. Classes are held daily and organised according to age groups. Lesson plans are drawn keeping in mind the state board’s prescriptions and the overarching goal of social empowerment. Says Debojit, “Keeping in mind that many of these children are starting from scratch, the groups for foundational classes are often age agnostic.” He makes clear that their objective is not to become an alternative to tuitions or regular schools. Koushani says, “We also teach them things outside a rigid syllabus structure. We talk to them about nature, climate, current affairs, things we see or observe in our day-to-day lives.” She adds how some parents request their child be taught the English language. Aiswarya, a student of electrical engineering, who has earlier taught children in the Sunderbans, says, “Textbooks scare them. The sounds of subjects scare them. But when I talk to them about the handpumps they are so familiar with and explain pressure and lever, they understand easily and are delighted.” Apart from books and blackboards, these young teachers use audio-visual aids to address some of these wonderments. While history is taught through films and plays, science is explained through experiments. Weekends are for special classes in drawing, music, dancing. “We want to be the happiness providers,” says Saikat. The increasing number of pathshalas has to do with disparate locales being catered to; a central pathshala would mean organising transportation and even then there would be impossible logistics. Funds come in through crowdsourcing. Aniket Das of Alipurduar does not miss a single class. His father sells lottery tickets and mother sews clothes for a living. Puja Maiti’s father works in a hosiery factory in Tamil Nadu. Her mother is a fisherwoman. The Class IV girl wants to join the police service. Samir Kishku is the son of a honey collector from Patrasayer in Bankura. His village got an electricity connection a few years ago. He wants to become a footballer like Messi. Lakshmi Murmu’s father is a farmer. She wants to study the Ol Chiki script and do something for her own community, the Santhals. Mahfuz’s father is a zari karigar. He is excellent at maths and wants to be an engineer. Saikat says, “People say a doctor’s son will become a doctor, a lawyer’s son will become a lawyer, and they say the same for children of labourers and rickshaw-walas. We want to break this.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-299
