21-09-2020||Calcutta||Online session on mental health||Isolate those with Covid-19 but do not make them feel unwanted, said the head of a school at a session on mental illness. “Let the (Covid) patient (in the family) feel wanted and establish an emotional connect with the person. It’s an age of technology, you can talk to the patient,” said Mukta Nain, the director of Birla High Schools. She was speaking at a webinar on Towards Mental Health 360: Breaking Stigma, Stereotypes and Taboos, organised by Caring Minds on Sunday evening. “Go out to the park and get some fresh air. Parents can do that especially when they have some disagreements, go outside, discuss it and come back. Have the disagreements behind closed doors so they are not displayed in front of the child,” said Nalini Juthani, a psychiatrist from the US. “It is alright to expose children to a healthy argument…. But parents should not fight violently in front of the child or take it beyond a certain point because that will make the child very insecure,” said Minu Budhia, founder director of Caring Minds. Psychiatrist Manoj Shah said with both parents working from home and living in small apartments, it has become a “juggling act” that leads to stress.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-298
21-09-2020||Calcutta||Cop raids for safe nightlife net 830 ||A day after gun shots were fired and bombs hurled inside a hookah bar early on Friday, Calcutta police carried out “block raids” at specific intersections across the city on Saturday night and Sunday. With the bars and nightclubs getting operational, several Calcuttans have started stepping out of their homes to spend the weekend on Park Street or share a drink at their favourite night club. Police officers said it was important to ensure that no one felt unsafe outdoors at night even if only a few people were on the roads. Senior officers said they conducted the block raids — involving blocking intersections by setting up check points — to crack the whip on unruly vehicles, prevent drink driving and ensure police presence to prevent crime on the roads. “These night raids will continue from time to time to restrict criminal activities at night,” said a senior officer at Lalbazar. Three or four men fired and hurled bombs at a café-cum-restaurant in Karaya early on Friday before fleeing. The police suspect that a dispute had triggered the attack. The raids, conducted across the city from 9pm on Saturday to 1am on Sunday, resulted in the prosecution of 830 people for disorderly conduct, 1,070 motorcyclists for riding without helmets, 638 motorcyclists for carrying more than person on the pillion, and six each for drink driving and illegal possession of arms and ammunition. Police pickets and check-points were set up at major intersections under the supervision of the officers of the rank of deputy commissioner. Officers from police stations and traffic guards took part in the raids. The lockdown period and the consequent night curfew had left Calcuttans confined to their homes at night for the past few months. With the beginning of unlock phases, the city’s nightlife is gradually limping back to normal. “Several young people were on the roads like on a typical weekend. People have started coming out again but in fewer numbers,” said an officer in south Calcutta. Another officer said they were trying to implement a two-pronged strategy while controlling night security in the city. “We have been prosecuting hundreds of people for not wearing masks. Now, we are ensuring that anyone who steps out at night does not feel unsafe,” the officer said. Police have not been able to use breathalysers for testing the alcohol consumption of motorists for the past few months to prevent spread of Covid-19. Only motorists who were found visibly sloshed and were tested at hospitals for the presence of alcohol in their body were prosecuted. Officers appealed to motorists that they should not drink and drive taking advantage of the fact that the machines for testing the alcohol content in their blood were not  being used.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-298
21-09-2020||Calcutta||School responds to blood crisis||A school in central Calcutta responded to the crisis of blood in the city during the pandemic and organised a blood donation camp on Sunday. More than 50 people turned up at Chowringhee High School to donate blood through the morning and afternoon. Among them were former students, parents of current students and people in and around Chowringhee Lane, where the school is located. A part of the blood collected will go to The Thalassaemia Society of India. “We have been reading about the scarcity of blood and wanted to do something about it. We know that the Society is also facing a crisis,” said Perminder Dasani, the administrator of the school. Every year the school organises two blood donation camps, in April and September. “We could not organise a camp in April because of the lockdown but arranged for 17 people who donated blood for the children who have thalassaemia,” said Dasani.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-298
21-09-2020||Calcutta||Gloves come to aid of leather trade||Demands for luxury leather products are still much lower compared to what they used to be but Covid-19 has triggered an increased demand for industrial safety gloves, which many leather goods manufacturers and tanneries in Calcutta said was helping them run their units. Several leather goods manufacturers, who would earlier produce wallets and bags for big luxury brands in Europe, Canada and the US, are now producing industrial safety gloves. The tanneries which were processing better quality leather for bags and wallets are now also processing inferior quality leather needed to produce gloves. According to the leather industry sources, there is a 20 per cent growth in the demand for the industrial leather goods across the world compared with last year. The gloves are used mainly by workers in the mining industry, chemical factories and units where hazardous and sharp objects are handled, said leather manufacturers. The mining industry has been declared as an essential sector by governments in Canada, South America, South Africa and other regions. Calcutta produces the largest number of industrial safety leather gloves in India, followed by Chennai, said leather industry sources. Many tanneries said the processed leather meant to be shipped to Europe and other countries is still lying with them. “Malls and stores in Europe and other countries have opened but the demand still has not picked up like it was in the pre-Covid times. Also, the air freight charges have gone up by almost three times. So, exports are still low by almost 50 per cent compared to last year,” said Zia Nafis of Zia Hide Skin Agency. Nafis said tonnes of processed leather had been lying at his Bantala manufacturing unit since March because importers in Italy were not ready to collect the consignments. Big brands manufacturing shoes and other luxury leather items there have slowed down productions. Officials at the Calcutta airport’s cargo division said usually about 4,000 tonnes of leather goods like bags, wallets and belts and finished leather used to be exported every month. In July, the volume was around 1,500 tonnes and in August, around 2,300 tonnes. “The freight has gone up from Rs 100 a kg to more than Rs 300 a kg. Earlier, passenger flights would take the products to Europe and the US. Now, cargo aircraft are carrying the goods and so the charges have gone up,” said an official. Since July, Nafis has been processing low quality hides for gloves manufacturers in Calcutta. “I have processed 2 lakh square feet of leather since July for the industrial gloves manufacturing units. But the price is much lower,” said Nafis. He said the superior quality of leather, used to manufacture bags and wallets, costs Rs 50 per square feet. “The cost of leather used to manufacture gloves is Rs 14 to 15 per square feet. But because of high demand, I am being able to pay wages and meet other overhead costs,” he said. Nehal Zafar, owner of ANS Leather, exports industrial safety gloves. “We could not export because of the lockdown. After that shipments have started moving. There is a 20 per cent increase in demands also,” said Zafar. Md Amir of AN Exim said earlier his unit would process 30,000 to 40,000 square feet of high quality leather meant for bags and wallets. “But there is hardly any demand now for high quality leather. So, I have started processing low quality leather for industrial gloves,” said Amir. In the last six months his unit processed barely 10,000 square feet of fine leather. “I had to shift to process leather for industrial gloves because I have to pay 30 workers. I have processed one lakh square feet of leather for the gloves over the past month," he said. One manufacturer said that around this time of the year, they would be busy arranging for shipments of wallets and bags to Europe and the US for Christmas and New Year. But this time, they are still manufacturing because of the slump. “Importers are apprehensive in Europe and the US about a second wave of Covid. So they are reluctant to place bulk orders,” said the manufacturer.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-298
21-09-2020||Calcutta||Comorbidity survey ends, mop-up leg planned||The 14-day survey to identify the prevalence of comorbidities among Calcuttans ended on Sunday with around four lakh households remaining uncovered. A senior state government official said a mop-up exercise would be conducted to ensure the remaining households were surveyed, too. The Calcutta Municipal Corporation had engaged 20 surveyors and two supervisors in each of the 144 wards to conduct the survey, which was undertaken to bolster the government’s Covid response. A CMC official said that by Sunday evening, 6.15 lakh of the 10 lakh-odd households in Calcutta had been surveyed. The survey was conducted by the CMC, state health department and Covid Care Network, an organisation of doctors, health officials and people who have recovered from Covid-19. “This was a first of its kind survey in Calcutta. The survey over the last two weeks has gained good momentum. We will conduct a mop-up exercise to ensure that no household in the city is left out. A meeting will be held in one or two days to decide on the modalities of the mop-up exercise,” the state government official said. A CMC official added that the comorbidity survey was a dynamic initiative and such pan-Calcutta surveys should be conducted at regular intervals, such as once or twice a year. Because of the modern-day lifestyle, the prevalence of comorbidities among people will keep increasing, the civic official said. “Someone who does not have any comorbid condition now may develop one in the next one year. So the survey has to be done at regular intervals so that the government has updated data.” Comorbidities are conditions that can affect the workings of vital organs such as the lungs, kidneys and the heart, said a public health specialist. A new infection can spell more trouble for a person suffering from one or more such conditions. The surveyors recorded a person’s name, age, contact number and if he/she was suffering from cancer, diabetes, heart or kidney disease, hypertension, respiratory disease, liver disease or tuberculosis. The civic body will upload the data on its server and the information will be accessible to its doctors. A civic official said the presence of data on comorbidities could be a game-changer in public health management. The prevalence of comorbidities and the average age when a Calcuttan develops such a condition will serve as critical inputs during the framing of public health policies for Calcutta. “During the Covid-19 pandemic, this data will help us respond better. Someone with a comorbidity will have to be prioritised over someone without any such condition. Also, people with advanced age and presence of comorbid conditions have to be monitored very closely if they are infected with Covid-19,” said the CMC official.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-298
21-09-2020||Calcutta||PG admissions to start on November 1||The higher education department has asked universities to admit students to postgraduate courses through online mode from November 1 as the Covid-19 pandemic is likely to continue and physical assembly on the campus will not be advisable, said an official of the department. The department had on September 16 issued an order barring the universities from calling prospective candidates to campuses for counselling or verification of documents. The order states the date of commencement of admission of students to postgraduate courses. Eligible applicants should be informed directly by the universities through email or telecommunication, states the order. The start of the academic session has not yet been announced, as the department is not in a position to tell when the campuses will reopen, said the official. “We have asked the universities to follow the mode that the colleges followed for undergraduate admissions. The government had issued a notification on July 16 telling colleges how to admit students amid the pandemic. The situation has not improved and is likely to remain the same given the steady spread of the virus,” he said. The department decided that postgraduate admission would start on November 1 after the UGC last week asked the universities to publish the end semester/final year results of the graduating students by the end of October so admissions to the first year of postgraduate/PhD programme could be completed without any further delay and the next session could start on time. The September 16 order states that since a prospective candidate is not required to visit the campus, the documents will be verified once classes start. Admissions will be cancelled if the documents are found not in conformity with the declarations made in the online applications, said the official. An official of Jadavpur University said that while a candidate till last year submitted the application form online, he or she had to visit the campus to get the documents verified before the start of classes. The education department’s notice says: "All the stakeholders shall adhere to COVID-19 norms/ protocol issued by the government.” Details of the bank where the candidates seeking admission will deposit the fees have to be sent through SMS or email, said another official. The lists of eligible candidates will also have to be made available to the designated bank branches for verification during payment. Fees should be paid only through e-payment or the designated bank and not physically at the universities, the order says. Keeping the health hazard in mind, the department has devised the system in a way that students will not have to come in contact with others during admission, said another official. The higher education department has extended the last date of admission to undergraduate colleges from September 25 to October 30 as seats are vacant, education minister Partha Chatterjee said on Sunday. Chatterjee said as many as 25 per cent of the seats are vacant in some colleges. “The order on extending the deadline will be issued on Monday,’’ Chatterjee said at a rally in Behala.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-298
21-09-2020||Calcutta||A walk through Rabindra Sarobar banks reveals picture of neglect||A disaster was averted after the National Green Tribunal (NGT)’s on Thursday dismissed the Calcutta Metropolitan Development Authority (CMDA)’s appeal to allow Chhath rituals in the Rabindra Sarobar premises. But a visit to the lake grounds, the only open, green space in south Calcutta and beloved of morning-walkers, reveals the ongoing disaster. Besides, say environmentalists, Rabindra Sarobar, or the Dhakuria Lakes, have been plagued by many troubles that have been consistently ignored by the authorities. The fact that the CMDA now wants Chhath puja performed at the lakes — the CMDA plans to move the Supreme Court to pursue with the appeal — is the culmination of long years of neglect of the lakes and a systemic undermining of the natural environment of the city. One obvious sign is the appearance of the lakes now. Almost four months have passed since Cyclone Amphan struck, but the signs of devastation are everywhere. The main pathways have been cleared. But every few feet you encounter exposed trunks of trees, their tops sawn off by the winds, clumps of dead branches heaped over rubble and entire segments of metal fencing either missing or lying mangled. Near the Nazrul Mancha entrance, huge tree trunks, remnants of trees felled by the cyclone, form a barricade. On one side of the stadium, a life-size showpiece horse lies on its side, at an upper level. It looks like death. As one walks from Nazrul Mancha towards the Safari Park entrance, a line-up of tall, ghostly trees stand, hit in the middle, their top halves fallen to the ground but still attached to the trunks. The right side of the path is overgrown with weeds. A smaller water body near the Safari Park entrance looks like it has not been cleaned for months. The grounds are open now from 5.30am to 9.30am, but they are changed vastly. Visitors are fewer in number. “I tried to start going again,” says Kunal Banerjee, a Lake Road resident and a morning-walker. “But the lakes look so dismal now that I can’t bear to go there anymore.” During lockdown, when the city really needed open space, the condition of the lakes affects the city more. If the wetlands are the city’s kidneys, Rabindra Sarobar — created by the CIT scheme, which acquired the 190 acres in the 1920s — can be called Calcutta’s lungs. The city has less than 6 per cent open space against an international benchmark of at least 15 per cent; and Rabindra Sarobar, along with Subhash Sarobar and the Maidan, constitutes the bulk of it within the city. That Rabindra Sarobar can be left to rot like this is the result of a deep indifference towards environment that the authorities have been showing of late, says environmentalist Naba Dutta, secretary, Sabuj Mancha, who has written a letter to the chief minister highlighting how holding the Chhath puja at the lakes will pollute the waters and affect the biodiversity of the place. This indifference towards environment, coupled with “vote politics“ in the run-up to the Assembly elections led the CMDA, a state government body that is the custodian of Rabindra Sarobar, to appeal for the Chhath puja at the lakes. The CMDA has been even more neglectful towards Subhash Sarobar. “At least Rabindra Sarobar is in south Calcutta and powerful people are on its side,” says Naba Dutta. Subhas Sarobar is even less protected. “And what makes the authorities think that all those in the city who perform Chhath puja want to do it at the expense of environmental concerns? This is stereotyping and undermining the Bihari community,” says Naba Dutta. Tolerance of unethical business practices has also made the authorities ignore another severe problem at the lakes: the effluents from the clubs around, which go straight into the lakes. “For years, we have been highlighting this problem, but the authorities have done nothing,” says environment activist Subhas Datta. “It’s a fact that, from time to time, we have found various clubs releasing toxic effluents in lake water,” a former state pollution control board official said. The one thing that the authorities have done consistently about the lakes is being inconsistent, depending on the priority of the moment. On November 15, 2017, NGT issued a set of directives on the lakes, which included a blanket ban on observing Chhath puja there. The directives were based on recommendations of an expert committee formed by the tribunal, following petitions, including one from Subhas Datta,  on activities that were affecting the lake environment. The committee also pointed at the polluting role of the effluents from the clubs. The directives banned performance of any puja, community picnic and organisation of social events in and around Rabindra Sarobar; and new construction or extension of any existing building without the permission of the tribunal. The CMDA was to introduce nominal entry fees and frame guidelines for operation of the clubs, which clubs not to have direct access to the lake area. “While the CMDA has informed that it will not charge entry fees, the rest of the directives have been violated in varying degrees, the most blatant being the observance of Chhath puja twice after the order,” says S.M. Ghosh, environmentalist and regular morning walker, who is also concerned about the heavy pollution created by the club effluents. In September 27, 2019, just before the Chhath puja, the NGT warned that “permitting performance of the puja in the Rabindra Sarobar lake will be considered as violation of the directions passed … which shall call for punitive action...”, after the very CMDA had approached the body, expressing fears about the lake premises. The order was completely violated yet again and thousands performed Chhath within Rabindra Sarobar, which, activists claim, could only happen only with the tacit support of politicians and administration. Subhas Datta points at the role the opposition parties in the state are not playing and alleges a conspiracy of silence in matters of religion. “It seems that a political mahajot has been formed against environment,” the activist feels.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-298
21-09-2020||Calcutta||Xavier’s set example in holding online test ||All 472 students of the undergraduate and postgraduate final semester exams at St Xavier’s University had uploaded their answers instantly at the end of each test, vice-chancellor Father Felix Raj said. The exams were held between September 14 and 18. Students were informed before the exams that their answers would not be accepted if they were late by even a minute in uploading them. If a test was to end at noon, students had to stop writing their answers sharp at noon and upload the answers instantly, Father Felix Raj said. Nine out of the 472 examinees had complained about minor technical problems while writing the exams at home. “The problems were solved immediately and all 472 candidates managed to upload the answers as soon as they stopped answering the questions on all days,” the VC said. The success in conducting online exams by St Xavier’s University, a private institution run by Jesuits, has come at a time when some state-aided institutions like Calcutta University are finding it difficult to evolve a suitable system for conducting the final year/semester exams amid the pandemic. Calcutta University had initially decided to give 24 hours to students to upload the answers. But the university has changed its decision following a prod from the University Grants Commission and given students 30 minutes after the end of each day’s test to upload the answers. St Xavier's University had appointed one teacher for every 20 students to monitor them during each test. Students could call the respective teachers if they faced any technical problems. The teachers were asked to convey the problems to experts from an agency that was hired by the university to manage the technical side of conducting the exams. Arrangements were made to ensure that the problems were solved immediately and every student could complete the paper in the allotted time. Three rounds of mock tests were held to help students understand the system. The mock exams also helped the authorities anticipate the kind of technical problems an examinee could face. “This was the first time students had to take the tests sitting at their home. We had no experience of conducting the examinations this way. But we were able to conduct the exams successfully,” the VC said. He said the new system had been adopted as a one-time measure because of the pandemic. But after its successful implementation, the institution is planning to conduct exams this way even after the situation normalises. The end semester exams of St Xavier’s University were held from September 14 to 18. The results will be declared on September 30. The questions were a mix of multiple-choice (MCQs) and subjective types. Half the questions are MCQs||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-298
21-09-2020||Calcutta||Online recharge for smart cards||The transport department has made arrangements for online recharge of smart cards for government buses, ferries and trams in keeping with the new normal amid the Covid-19 pandemic, an official said. One can now recharge a card by visiting www.onlinerecharge.wbtc.co.in. Till now, a passenger had to visit a point of sale run by the West Bengal Transport Corporation to recharge a card. The portal will ask for the mobile number or card number and then offer options for the amount to be recharged. The amount can vary between Rs 100 and Rs 1,500 but has to be in multiple of 100. The payment can be made through credit card, debit card or Net banking. As an incentive of sorts, an additional 10 per cent of the paid amount will be added to the account. A recharged card will have to be updated at a sales counter or with the help of a ticketing machine available with conductors. “The measure for online recharge of smart cards has been taken to reduce exposure, as a precaution against Covid-19. We are also planning to tie up with online delivery sites so cards can be delivered at doorsteps,” said an official of the transport department. “We expect a rise in the number of commuters not only on buses but in the two other modes. The card can be used on all three modes of transportation,” said Rajanvir Singh Kapur, the managing director of the West Bengal Transport Corporation. “We are in the process wherein one can buy the card online and even recharge online.” Some of the places where smart cards are available are Garia No 6 bus depot, Howrah bus terminus, Jadavpur 8b bus stand, Thakurpukur 3A bus stand, Dum Dum 11A bus stand, Karunamoyee bus stand, Howrah jetty, Millennium Park jetty and Farlie Place jetty.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-298
21-09-2020||Calcutta||Polio vaccine to be given at home||The Calcutta Municipal Corporation will completely depend on door-to-door visits to give the polio vaccine this year, deciding to do away with camps at strategic locations that were organised till last year, an official of the civic body said on Sunday. Around 40 per cent of pulse polio doses were administered in the camps, the official said. The programme to give polio vaccines began on Sunday and will continue through the week. “Camps have been cancelled this year to avoid gatherings. In previous years, after the camps would end, civic health workers used to visit the children who had not been vaccinated in the camps. Those children would be vaccinated at home. But this year all children will be vaccinated at home,” a CMC official.. “This is a challenge for us, but we have to do it,” said an official of the civic health department. “The camps drew a large number of children…. Our experience showed that nearly 40 per cent of all children were vaccinated at camps, which were held on Sundays. Parents preferred to get their children vaccinated on Sundays.” The official added that it was because of the long queues that the civic authorities decided not to organise the camps this year. “The congregation of so many people would have been a threat to the health of everyone. Our staff, parents and children, everyone would have been exposed to the risk of contracting the novel coronavirus.” The Pulse Polio Immunisation Programme, which started on Sunday, is held usually four times a year in Calcutta, along with the rest of the state. Around 30 police personnel, including officer-in-charge Mriganka Mohan Das were felicitated for their role in battling the Covid-19 pandemic. The visitors were members of Junior Chamber International (JCI), an NGO and youth organisation. “In the midst of the coronavirus pandemic, certain people have emerged as warriors. They have answered the call of duty by risking their safety for serving the society. Not all superheroes wear capes, some wear a police uniform,” said Reshma Narwani of the JCI||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-299
