22-09-2020||Calcutta||Trio arrested for forcing out Madrasa teachers from Calcutta Guest House||Three persons were arrested on Tuesday for allegedly driving out 10 madrasa teachers from a guest house in Calcutta despite their pre-booking, police said. The trio, all employees of the guest house in Salt Lake where the incident occured, were arrested on the charge of discrimination against guests on religious grounds, a senior officer of the Bidhannagar Police Commissionerate said. They were detained on Monday evening for interrogation on the basis of a complaint lodged with the Bidhannagar East police station by the madrasa teachers who had come from Malda district for some official work at Bikash Bhavan, which houses the state Education Department, he said. "After we made entries in the register of the DL 39 guest house around 6 am on Monday, we were made to wait for three hours for rooms. Then, we were told that no room was available despite us showing them the documents of our pre- booking of three rooms. "We were then allotted three rooms for an hour at the nearby CL 164 guest house. Around 11 am, they asked us to immediately vacate the rooms without citing any reason," Mohammad Obaidur Rahman, one of the teachers, told reporters. Shikshak Oikyo Mukto Manch, an association of madrasa teachers in the state, has filed a separate police complaint. "In our Srirampur Madrasa in Malda, the majority of the teachers and the staffers are Hindus. The behaviour of the guest house employees has caused deep anguish to all of us," another teacher, Sadek Ali, said. The guest house authorities, on the other hand, said alternative arrangements were made for the madrasa teachers as no room was available at DL 39 guest house and there was a booking of another group at CL 164, which is why they were asked to leave. They claimed the staffers had not discriminated against the guests on religious grounds and promised to refund a part of the pre-booking amount.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-296
22-09-2020||Calcutta||Madrasa teachers turned out of Calcutta guest house||A group of 10 madrasa teachers from Malda who had booked a guesthouse in Salt Lake to freshen up before heading to a meeting at the state’s education department headquarters were turned out of the guesthouse a few hours after they had checked in and refused accommodation in another. One of the teachers said they got the impression that they were taken from one guesthouse to another and refused rooms because of their identity, their names, their appearance and their clothes. The teachers told The Telegraph they had been “stunned” at hearing the reason for their expulsion. “We had come to Calcutta earlier too in connection with work and usually stay at such lodges. This time we had come after several months because of the lockdown. We have never faced any problem before…. It simply breaks our heart to think this could happen in Bengal,” said Mahbubur Rahman, headmaster of Alipur Madrasah Shiksha Kendra in Kaliachak, Malda. The teachers, eight of them headmasters at their madrasas, were forced to take shelter under the East West Metro viaduct (the ground below the overhead tracks) near Bikash Bhavan amid the morning shower and left the city directly after finishing work. According to Rahman, they had started from Malda around 9.30pm on Sunday and reached Salt Lake around 6am on Monday. “A bike-borne youth who introduced himself as a guesthouse employee guided us to a guesthouse near CK Market. After we submitted our identity cards, we were allotted three rooms. At the time we had clearly mentioned that we would stay till 3.30pm. After freshening up, we went to the market for breakfast,” said Rahman. The group, barring one teacher who had fallen asleep in a room, had headed out for breakfast, Rahman said. After they returned around 9.30am, a guesthouse employee told them they would have to leave as there was another booking for 10am. “They promised us better rooms and although we protested initially, we agreed to check out the other guesthouse,” said Rahman. They were taken to a property at CJ2, the second guesthouse, where the teachers said they were made to wait 45 minutes in a hall and then told they could not be accommodated as rooms were under repair. Rahman then called up Moidul Islam, general secretary of the Paschimbanga Sikshak Aikya Mukta Mancha, a Left-leaning teachers’ organisation, who had made the bookings. Islam told The Telegraph that the guesthouse employee who had accepted the bookings and received the team in the morning told him some residents had spotted the teachers returning after breakfast and objected to their presence before the lodge authorities. Islam said: “‘They are all from your community,’ that employee said. He also said the situation could have been managed had there been members of any other community too in the group. The guesthouse owner too was unwilling (to keep them), he said, and expressed regret at his inability to help.” Tanmoy Mukherjee, one of the owners of the CL block guesthouse and the one in CJ block, said the teachers could not be allowed to stay because bookings had been received for the rooms on an online platform. “We received online bookings from 10am so we had no option but to ask them to move out. We tried to accommodate them in another of our guesthouses but there too the rooms were occupied or under repair,” said Mukherjee. Islam then asked the group to wait under the Metro viaduct and went there. Sadek Ali, headmaster of Krishnapur Madrasa Kendra, said he was immensely hurt. “We were born and brought up in this country. Who knew we would face this treatment!” Later at night, the teachers received calls from the director of madrasa education, Abid Hussain, and a senior official from the school education department. “Both of them said the grievance would be probed,” Islam said. A senior officer from the Bidhannagar commissionerate said on Monday night that officials were speaking to the guesthouse owners and the employees to find out what exactly had happened.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-296
22-09-2020||Calcutta||Calcutta High Court refuses state's plea on Covid patients' bodies||The high court on Monday turned down the state health department’s plea, seeking a modification of an earlier division bench order that directed it to hand over bodies of Covid patients to the next of kin. If a Covid patient’s body is handed over to the next of kin, he/she/they will have the right on it and can take the body to other places before going to the crematorium or burial ground, advocate-general Kishore Datta told the division bench, headed by Chief Justice T.B.N. Radhakrishnan. Datta had moved the petition on behalf of the principal secretary of the state health department. “The system may create a health hazard for other people. So, the court should modify its order and let the department conduct the last rites. The court can allow the patients’ relatives to see the body in hospital.” The bench refused to accept the health department’s plea but ordered that the next of kin of a patient would have to take the body straight to the nearest crematorium or burial ground from hospital. Following a plea by Vineet Ruia, who described himself as a social worker, another division bench had last week issued certain guidelines to conduct the last rites of people dying of Covid. The state government must hand over bodies of Covid patients to the next of kin, the bench had said. The state government had moved Calcutta High court against the order. Asked if the state government would move the Supreme Court against the order, a state law department officer said: “It will be decided in a day or two. But according to the health department, there is every possibility of further spread of the disease if bodies are handed over to the next of kin of patients.” The government has so far not handed over bodies of Covid patients to the next of kin. Its officials or agencies have conducted funerals and last rites. Families are given a 30-minute window to see a body in hospital before the body is taken to a crematorium or burial ground.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-297
22-09-2020||Calcutta||Six months on, schools still unfamiliar and unknown||Students in several city schools are attending classes online from various cities; some even from different countries and they have no idea how their school looks like. They have been admitted to a city school after their parents got transferred here or the family decided to shift to Calcutta. For hundreds of such students, six months into the session, the school is still “new and unknown”. The new school tries to “integrate” them into the system but a feeling of “isolation” persists among these students because their peers are acquaintances and not really friends, a parent said. A parent in Dubai said his two daughters had been admitted to a city school and that they were attending classes from the UAE. But at times they feel they are “neither here nor there”. A Class V student who came to the city in March asked a teacher recently if he could visit his “new school”. The school had to turn down the request because of the prevailing condition. “New students join every year across classes… it has always been a challenge for such students to make new friends and establish themselves in their peer group… but now it is harder because of the limited opportunity to interact and establish a connection with their peers,” Amita Prasad, the director of Indus Valley World School, said. Some of the new students engage in activities and interact with other students but it is doubtful if they make friends, Prasad said. A virtual tour of the school is no substitute for a real visit and students cannot “even visualise their school”, she said. Teachers across schools have noticed students not opening up. “When some girls were asked to introduce themselves they appeared hesitant and uncomfortable; they were quiet,” Aruna Gomes, the principal of Loreto House, said. The “bonding” among students happens outside the classroom, in the playground or during break time — all that is missing now, principals and teachers of several schools said. A person in Dubai got his daughters admitted to a CBSE school in Calcutta. The call had been taken months before the pandemic he said. “We had applied for transfer certificates from the school in Dubai… going back was slightly tricky and my daughters were mentally prepared that they would have to leave for Calcutta. Now, they seem to be in both places,” D. Banerjee said. His daughters have been admitted to Class VII and Class XI. “They look forward to joining their new school. The interaction with their peers is virtual, be it exchanging notes or texting... that cooperation is there, though,” he said. But it is not just talking about studies or sharing notes. “Not going to school has created a huge void and for new entrants it is natural to feel isolated at times…. They need to joke or do silly talk with their contemporaries,” Nupur Ghosh, the vice-principal of Mahadevi Birla World Academy, said. Children will feel they are “left out” because in school new students merge into the system; that is limited now, Farishta Dastur Mukerji, psychotherapist and a school counsellor, said. “What I feel and see is there is a feeling of being an outsider till the system includes them... connecting with each other starts after having physically met and they are bound to feel left out,” Dastur Mukerji, the counsellor at Calcutta International School, said. “Socialisation is a huge part of the process of going to school and that has been taken away from these kids. They do connect with each other over gadgets but that can be diluted.” In many schools, Class XI is an entry point and the “ice would break” within a month. But that is not happening and schools have had to improvise ways to make it easier for students. At Loreto House, students are given projects or assignments where they have to work together in groups but every student has to make a slide. In Indus Valley, teachers give responsibilities of various school activities to students. In Mahadevi Birla World Academy, peer mentors are appointed to look after new students. “In the value education period for Class XI, I give them a link and a topic to work on and leave the class. I rejoin towards the end of the class when they would make the presentation. These are ways to integrate new students into the system but it is nothing compared to school,” principal Gomes of Loreto House said. The limited time for online classes is another challenge that schools have been trying to overcome. “The timetable is structured; we do include new students in various activities but the scope of the school is limited when it comes to helping them form social relations,” director Prasad of Indus Valley World School said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-297
22-09-2020||Calcutta||When the city streets are car-free||Tuesday is World Car-free Day. Like last year, Kolkata Cycle Samaj wants to celebrate the day and spell out a few of its demands. The cyclists’ association based in the city stresses that as important as cars going off the road, even if symbolically     — not that Calcutta is going to be car-free even for a day — is drawing attention to the fact that the city lacks infrastructure for non-polluting vehicles  like the bicycle and an environment-friendly and user-friendly public transport, which the entire city will feel interested to use. “The idea of celebrating the day is to stress the importance of an evolved public transport system — non-motorised, sustainable and equitable,” says Raghu Jana, convenor, Kolkata Cycle Samaj. “The city public transport system should be accessible equally by all road users,” he adds. It is imperative that a comprehensive transport plan be drawn up, with space for cyclists, pedestrians and trams, say the activists. It has been almost a decade since the authorities looked at such a plan. The lockdown has made these priorities even sharper. “According to the 2011 Census, cycling was the third preferred choice of commute to work, 10 per cent of the trips, after walking (39 per cent) and public transport (31 per cent),” points out Bicycle Mayor of Calcutta Satanjib Gupta. He has been appointed to this post by BYCS, an Amsterdam-based social enterprise that believed the use of bicycles can transform cities. “But in Calcutta the infrastructure hardly reflects the modes of transport mentioned in the census report.” Yet, during the lockdown, the bicycle has made such a return. A huge number of people are cycling to their workplaces; the skies are an unbelievable blue and Calcutta’s air and noise pollution were reduced by 50-75 per cent during the early days of lockdown, according to data released by West Bengal Pollution Control Board. But the worrying part is, these look like only a brief respite. In Calcutta, it is feared that cars will be back in full glory once the lockdown is over. During the pandemic, many cities in the world have stopped the purchase of new cars. But let’s take a look at Calcutta’s figures. According to a recent study conducted by National Environmental Engineering Institute, goods carriers and buses contributed three-fourths of total vehicular pollution. All types of vehicles together contributed 22 per cent of PM10 and PM2.5 in ambient air in summer. In winter, the figure stood at 25 per cent for PM2.5. The study found that the contribution of private vehicles, both petrol and diesel variants, was marginal. Environmentalists have contested these figures, claiming vehicular pollution contributes to about 50 per cent of the city’s air pollution. Buses are huge pollutants. But the number of registered private buses in the city in 2018, according to www.statista.com, was a little over 16,000. Goods vehicles mostly ply during late night and early hours. The number of registered private cars in the city in 2018, according to www.statista.com, was around 6,17,000. According to Regional Transport Authority, the number of registered private vehicles in the city was 8,00,000. According to recent Calcutta police  figures, about 3,750 vehicles ply per minute between 8am and 8pm, the highest concentration being in central Calcutta. The role of cars in the city, as using road space and contributing to pollution, cannot be overestimated. “It will not do to even to switch to electric cars, which will pollute less, but will use the same amount of space. The idea should be to move to non-polluting forms of public transport,” says environmentalist Naba Dutta. On the first “journée sans voiture” (day without a car) held in September 2015 in Paris, the city was found to reduce exhaust emissions by 40 per cent. Will Calcutta ever want to find out what happens if it goes without cars?||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-297
22-09-2020||Calcutta||Calcutta University: fewer questions for faster upload||The final-year undergraduate students of Calcutta University will have only two hours to answer questions, officials said. The papers will have fewer questions so that the examinees are required to write less and do not need more than half an hour to download the questions and upload the answers, as directed by the UGC last week. The UGC had on September 16 told the university that it was free to hold open-book exams as part of the end semester/ final-year test “so long as they are timed for two or three hours”. The CU pro-vice-chancellor for academic affairs, Ashis Chatterjee, on Monday informed the principals that each day’s test would be of two hours, the head of a college said. “The UGC has specified that students will have half an hour to download the questions and upload the answers and struck down the university’s previous decision that the examinees would be allowed 24 hours to upload the answers,” an official of the university said. “Fewer questions mean students will have to write less. They have to scan a lesser number of pages and will upload the scripts faster.” Pro-VC Chatterjee met college principals at Rajabazar Science College on Monday afternoon to discuss how to conduct the exams following the UGC instructions and told them they must submit the marks by October 18. The UGC in a separate advisory to the higher education department on September 16 said the results should be published by the end of October so admissions to postgraduate courses could begin on time. “This can be done only if the marks are submitted by October 18,” said an official. Repeated calls to the pro-VC went unanswered. It has been decided that the university will send the questions through email to the colleges on the exam days. The colleges will upload the questions on their website. Sources said that at Monday’s meeting the principals of colleges in the Sunderbans area sought to know how their students would send the answers in the stipulated time as the Net link there has been poor since Cyclone Amphan struck in May. “The pro-VC has left it to us to overcome the odds and said the UGC’s guidelines are sacrosanct,” said a principal. The principal of New Alipore College, Joydeep Sarangi, said they had purchased a software that would enable students to upload the scanned scripts on the college’s website. “As sending so many PDFs through email could pose a problem, we are asking students to upload the scripts on the website,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-297
22-09-2020||Calcutta||District govt hospital doctors to be brought to city Covid treatment centres||Doctors from government hospitals in districts will be brought to Calcutta and taken to Covid-19 treatment centres to allay fears about the disease, state government officials said on Monday. Members of the health department’s Covid monitoring team who are visiting hospitals in districts and in the immediate vicinity of Calcutta have found that Covid phobia that had once gripped many doctors in the city has spread among healthcare workers there. “Covid has claimed the lives of several doctors in Bengal over the past few weeks. That and the fact that more and more healthcare workers in government hospitals in districts are testing positive for the virus are among the reasons for the spread of the phobia,” an official said. There are allegations that doctors and nurses in some district hospitals were not going near Covid patients. In some hospitals, patients who needed ventilators were reportedly turned away because doctors were scared that intubating such patients could get them infected. “Doctors from these hospitals in districts will be brought to Calcutta in small groups. They will visit government hospitals in the city that are treating Covid patients, such as MR Bangur Superspeciality Hospital and Infectious Diseases Hospital in Beleghata. The doctors from the districts will be shown how their colleagues in the city hospitals are treating Covid patients by following all safety protocols,” said an official involved in Covid management in Bengal. The number of critical Covid patients and deaths resulting from the disease has been on the rise in districts. “It is crucial at this juncture to allay fears about Covid among healthcare workers in districts. Putting pressure on them to treat Covid patients will not work. We need to dispel the fear and counsel and train them,” the official said. At Calcutta hospitals, doctors from districts will be shown how their counterparts are ventilating Covid patients by wearing personal protective equipment. “Most of the doctors from districts have only theoretical knowledge about the safety measures, like it was in Calcutta in the initial days of the pandemic. So, when they are facing situations on the ground, they are gripped by panic,” said a health department official. A member of the Covid management monitoring team who had visited hospitals in several districts said many elderly doctors had told them that they had comorbidities like diabetes and hypertension and so were scared to approach Covid patients. “This has brought down the morale of their juniors, too,” he said. “Now doctors know about the safety measures but still some get infected. But that should not be the reason for not seeing Covid patients,” said Arunabha Sengupta, professor in the ENT department at SSKM Hospital. Sengupta, who has recently recovered from Covid, said he and his team of doctors were seeing around 300 to 400 patients at the OPD every day and performing seven to eight procedures.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-297
22-09-2020||Calcutta||Covid-hit economy tightens trafficking noose around girls||The cash crunch, resulting from a Covid-induced economic slump, is getting starker. And so is the vulnerability of daughters. Over 70 child marriages have been averted in two districts of Bengal since April, said rights activists. The districts, North and South 24-Parganas, are infamous for being trafficking hotbeds. For every averted case, at least two go unnoticed, they said. Activists have attributed the rise in the number of cases to the economic crisis triggered by Covid-19, which has landed thousands of families in abject poverty. Many parents are considering getting their minor daughters married to men who do not demand dowry. Traffickers are on the lurk for such vulnerable girls to force them into prostitution. Metro had in June reported how a string of child marriages was stopped in South 24-Parganas. The number has since kept rising. “We have stopped 32 child marriages till September 15. There are a dozen reports every month. Before the pandemic struck, we used to deal with a couple of cases every month on an average,” said Kakali Das of Goranbose Gram Bikash Kendra, a Canning-based NGO that works to curb trafficking and rehabilitate survivors. The NGO has coordinated with local police and the Childline India Foundation to intervene and stop child marriages in areas like Canning, Kultali and Basanti. Child marriage is often the first step towards trafficking of a girl, said Das. Earlier this month, a 14-year-old girl from Kultali was “rescued” from the outskirts of Bangalore. The girl was “reported missing” in August. “She got married to a man who took her to the southern state on the pretext of getting her a job. The girl sensed danger and managed to escape before he could sell her,” said Das. The girl is now at a shelter home in Bengal and is being counselled by Goranbose Gram Bikash Kendra. Things are no different in North 24-Parganas. “We have prevented over 40 child marriages in North 24-Parganas. In August, 10 marriages were prevented in Hingalganj and Hansnabad blocks,” said Sakila Khatun of Katakhali Empowerment and Youth Association. On August 29, Khatun received a call in the night. A girl — a Class VII student — was about to be married next morning. “A neighbour called to alert us. We could reach in time and stop the marriage,” said Khatun, whose organisation is a member of Partners in Anti-Trafficking, a network of NGOs. Several activists said traffickers were waiting for the resumption of commercial train services. “They are doing their homework now, by tapping vulnerable girls. Once trains start to run, the traffickers will try to take these girls out of the state,” a social worker said. The police force, its resources almost stretched to the limit following the outbreak of Covid-19, is struggling to “devote full attention” to curb trafficking, said another social worker, a member of Partners in Anti-Trafficking. The dedicated anti-human trafficking units are also having to cope with Covid-19 duties, he said. “We are doing our best. The regular awareness camps that used to be held at schools have stopped because the schools are shut. But we are coordinating with village panchayats and NGOs to create awareness,” said an officer in the anti-human trafficking unit in the Baruipur police district.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-297
22-09-2020||Calcutta||Covid: Calcutta comorbidity survey extended to include all||The comorbidity survey that ended on Sunday has been extended for a few more days to ensure all households in the city are covered, Firhad Hakim, the chairperson of the Calcutta Municipal Corporation’s board of administrators, said on Monday. Metro had on Monday reported that close to 385,000 households of an estimated 1 million households in the city were still to be covered. The government is planning a mop-up exercise to ensure no household is left out of the survey, a state government official had said on Sunday. Most of the CMC’s 144 wards had some households left to be surveyed, a CMC official said on Monday. A message has been sent to borough heads of the CMC’s health department to continue the survey wherever households are still to be covered, the official said. “We have extended the survey’s duration. The survey will not end till all households are covered. It seems it will take another fortnight to complete the survey,” Hakim said on Monday. “We have already covered a large number of households. No one will be left out of the survey after a few more days.” The survey began on September 7 with a 14-day deadline to cover an estimated 1 million households in the city to prepare a list of people who suffer from diabetes, chronic kidney and lung diseases, hypertension and cancer among other diseases. The CMC, the state health department and the Covid Care Network, an organisation of doctors, health officials and people who have recovered from Covid were part of the surveying team. The CMC had planned to deploy 20 surveyors and two supervisors in each ward. But one of the main reasons why all households could not be surveyed was the shortage of the desired number of surveyors, the CMC official said on Monday. In many wards, the CMC did not get the full strength of surveyors, he said. In some large wards, the number of households was “unusually high” and the available number of workers could not visit all households. “Wards 106, 107, 108 and 109 in Borough XII that covers pockets of Kasba and Jadavpur are among the ward with many households left to be covered. These are densely populated wards; so, we need more time to reach all households,” he said. “Wards 56, 58 and 65 in Borough VII that covers the Topsia-Tiljala region are large too and we need more time to cover all households.” Comorbidity can affect the workings of vital organs and a new infection can spell more trouble for a person suffering from one or more such diseases, according to health experts. The surveyors recorded a person’s name, age, contact number and if he/she has cancer, diabetes, heart or kidney disease, hypertension, respiratory disease, liver disease or tuberculosis. The civic body will upload the data on its server and the information will be accessible to its doctors. This is the first time a survey of all households in Calcutta has been undertaken to create a database of the prevalence of comorbidity among people in the city. Once all the collected data is uploaded, a rigorous analysis of the data is needed, a CMC official said. The data can provide leads on the most common comorbid condition among Calcuttans and also the average age when Calcuttans start to suffer from comorbidity, the official said. “The presence of a comorbid condition is always a worrying factor. In case of Covid and dengue, people with comorbidity suffer more. The data will help the civic body tailor its response accordingly. It will act as crucial evidence for making public health policies in future,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-297
22-09-2020||Calcutta||Tweak in Rabindra Bharati University exam norms ||Rabindra Bharati University decided on Monday that the students appearing in the end semester exams would have half an hour before each day’s test to download the questions and will have to upload the answer scripts immediately after the exam ends. RBU, which had last week decided to hold open-book tests and allow students 24 hours to upload answers, has changed its decision following a UGC message to Calcutta University that examinees could not be given more than half an hour to download questions and upload answers. Although RBU did not receive any letter from the UGC, vice-chancellor Sabyasachi Basu Raychaudhury said they had decided to tweak their decision. “We will follow what has been advised by the UGC,” Basu Raychaudhury said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-297
22-09-2020||Calcutta||Kolkata park curbs to stay, says Firhad Hakim||Parks in the city will not open for full hours immediately as the afternoons and evenings could lead to gatherings and adda in violation of distancing norms, said Firhad Hakim, the chairperson of the board of administrators of the Calcutta Municipal Corporation (CMC). Hakim had on September 12 said the civic body had sought permission from the state home department to reopen the parks for full hours as Unlock 4 guidelines allow sporting activities in parks. While speaking to Metro on Monday, Hakim ruled out reopening the parks during afternoon and evening. All parks in the city are open from 5.30am to 8.30am every day. The CMC is the custodian of nearly 700 parks in Calcutta. The Calcutta Metropolitan Development Authority is the custodian of two large parks in the city - Rabindra Sarobar in Dhakuria and Subhas Sarobar, in Beleghata. As the state urban development and municipal affairs minister, Hakim is also chairperson of the CMDA. “The parks will turn into adda zones if they are open in the evening. Right now we do not want that to happen as Covid-19 is still very much around. The parks will only remain open for morning walk,” Hakim said. The CMC is not objecting to the presence of workers involved in setting up Durga Puja pandals in parks, an official said. “Organisers seek permission for the pujas. So we are allowing them to keep some workers in parks to set up pandals,” the official said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-297
22-09-2020||Calcutta||Marble slab theft nets four in Calcutta||Four men were arrested early on Monday in connection with a theft of marble slabs from a godown off the Bypass, police said. The owner of the company that has the godown in Kalikapur had lodged a complaint with Survey Park police station on Sunday, saying marble slabs had been stolen from the godown for the past two years. Cops tried to scan the footage of CCTV cameras closest to the spot but found all were non-functional. They had been damaged by Cyclone Amphan, the police said. Acting on the complaint, officers stationed a team outside the godown on Sunday night. After waiting for over four hours, cops spotted four men trying to scale the boundary wall of Bhagwati Marble Enterprises in Kalikapur. Mohammad Shamim, 42, Jaffar Iqbal, 32, Mohammad Siraj, 18, and Mohammad Pappu, 20, were arrested on the spot. All live in the Lake Town area, the police said. A Tata Ace was found parked a few hundred metres from the company’s compound. It was meant to ferry marble slabs. At least 21 such slabs were found in the vehicle, the police said. An officer said the police were still to get any evidence to suggest the thieves had been active for the past two years. “We have received a complaint that this (theft) was going on for the past two years and that the thefts had cost the company Rs 10 lakh. We have started investigating the matter.” The four will be interrogated to find out what they used to do with the slabs, the police said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-297
22-09-2020||Calcutta||Cables to stop kite injuries in Calcutta||Cables will be mounted on poles along crash barriers on either side of the Parama flyover to ensure kite strings don’t land on the road and threaten the lives of two-wheeler riders, the government has decided. The urban development department has chosen a 25m stretch between No. 4 bridge and Gobinda Khatik Road for the pilot project. Cables will be mounted on angular poles so that kite strings get stuck in them and don’t land on two-wheeler riders, police said. Engineers from the Calcutta Metropolitan Development Authority, along with police officers, have already inspected the stretch a couple of times to understand how the poles will be fixed and the height till which the cables will be kept to ensure kite strings don’t land on the road. The work of fixing the poles and the cables will be carried out in the presence of cops, the police said. Officers will decide when the work will be carried out based on the traffic flow on the day selected. “CMDA engineers had sought permission and we have already granted them the necessary clearance. Once the design is ready, the work of installing the poles will start,” an officer in Lalbazar said. Kite strings have injured many two-wheeler riders on the Parama flyover. In May, Akhtar Khan, 40, a Watgunge resident, was killed after a kite string of the manja variety (string laced with glass powder and gum) slashed his throat while he was riding a scooter on the Parama flyover near Park Circus. His throat and the scooter had been found covered in the kite string. He had been declared dead at Calcutta National Medical College and Hospital. The police have so far failed to contain the menace. The National Green Tribunal has banned the sale of manja. In July, Calcutta High Court had directed the police to strictly enforce the ban on Chinese manja and nylon and synthetic threads used to fly kites. “We have decided on erecting angular poles on the crash barriers on either side of the flyover… it will add minimal weight to the structure,” a CMDA engineer said. “If the pilot project is successful, we will cover the entire flyover.” On August 31, Rohit Sau was left bleeding when a kite string slashed his chin while he was on his two-wheeler on the Parama flyover. Sau was lucky as he was moving at moderate speed and he had managed to grab the string and protect his throat, the police said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-298
