23-09-2020||Calcutta||Supreme Court on CMC polls, board||The Supreme Court has sought responses from the Bengal government, the State Election Commission and the Calcutta Municipal Corporation on a petition assailing the Calcutta High Court order upholding the state’s decision to postpone the municipal elections and form a board to function instead after the expiry of the five-year term of the councillors in May 2020. A bench of Justice Sanjay Kishan Kaul, Justice Anirudh Bose and Justice Krishna Kumar had on Monday issued notice on the appeal filed by Pratap Banerjee, challenging the high court’s order passed on August 25, which had agreed with the state’s contention that the present situation because of Covid was not conducive to holding elections.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-295
23-09-2020||Calcutta||CMC budget focus on solid waste, water||Solid waste management and water supply were allocated the maximum share of funds in the Calcutta Municipal Corporation budget presented on Tuesday. Solid waste management has been allocated Rs 606 crore and water supply Rs 408 crore for 2020-21. “We presented the budget for 2020-21 today. If the budget was not presented, the CMC’s functioning would have stopped from October,” Firhad Hakim, the chairperson of the board of the CMC’s board of administrators, said on Tuesday. “We waited this long because a petition challenging the formation of the board of administrators to run the corporation was being heard by the Supreme Court.” Hakim had presented a vote-on-account in March as the mayor of Calcutta. Since the tenure of the elected board was to expire on May 7 and fresh elections were pending, a full budget was not presented then. The elections could not be held because of the pandemic and the state government appointed a board of administrators to run the CMC. Hakim was made the board’s chairperson, a decision the Opposition had criticised. An outgoing Left Front councillor questioned if the board, which is not an elected one, had the power to present a full budget. Baiswanor Chattopadhyay, a board member in charge of law, said: “The board has been given full powers of an elected mayoral council. To run the affairs of the CMC for the rest of the year, it was necessary to present a budget. We have not done anything illegal.” The CMC’s solid waste management and the health departments are doing the most of Covid-related work, an official said. Hakim said the tax rates and fees had been kept almost the same as last year. While there is a separate Covid fund, these departments have other routine responsibilities, too, the official said. Some projects for augmenting the capacity of water treatment plants have been planned. Also, a new water treatment plant near Garia Dhalai bridge has been planned, he said. The roadways department was allocated Rs 325 crore and the health department Rs 163 crore. The funds for the roadways department are meant for repairs and relaying of major arterial roads. There is a separate fund to repair small roads, an official said. The work is carried out by the civil engineering department.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-295
23-09-2020||Calcutta||Traffic officer held on molestation charges by transpeople||The additional officer-in-charge of a city police traffic guard has been arrested on charges of assault and outraging the modesty of transpeople on Central Avenue on Monday night. The officer has been suspended and a departmental inquiry started against him, police said. The three transpeople have said in their complaint with Bowbazar police station that they had been verbally abused and physically molested by a drunk. They later realised he is a police officer, they have said. “We came from Dum Dum and parked our car along Central Avenue in front of a restaurant near Bowbazar around 8pm,” one of them said. “Suddenly a man started knocking on the driver’s window. The moment our driver rolled down the glass, we sensed he was reeking of alcohol.” In their complaint they have said the man — later identified as Abhishek Bhattacharya, the additional officer in-charge of the south west traffic guard — had started hurling abuses at them without any provocation and had attacked their driver when they protested his misbehaviour. “The man twisted our driver’s arm and started misbehaving with us. One of us dialled 100. But cops reached late,” one of them alleged. After being alerted from Lalbazar, officers of Bowbazar police station had gone to the spot. The transpeople have alleged that cops had tried to protect the man as he is part of the police force. Senior officers refuted the allegations. Like any other investigation, the accused person was detained and then arrested after scanning CCTV footage that had prima facie evidence against him. Bhattacharya has been charged with assault, outrage of modesty, causing outrage of modesty with words and gestures, and wrongful restraint. He has been booked under the Transgender act, too. The three transpeople and their driver were taken to Calcutta Medical College and Hospital. The driver’s arm had to be plastered for hairline fracture, the police said. Bhattacharya was produced in Bankshall court on Tuesday. He has been released on bail. “Such incidents malign the entire force. The purpose of security arrangement is lost if off-duty officers start behaving like this,” a traffic police officer said. Bhattacharya was off-duty. He was returning to his quarters in central Calcutta when the alleged confrontation with the transpeople took place, another officer said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-296
23-09-2020||Calcutta||Noapara among three busiest Metro stations||Noapara has emerged among the top three busiest Metro stations, a week into the resumption of commercial services. The passenger volume of Metro has been way lower than what officials had expected. But the terminal station in the north is on a par with stations like Rabindra Sadan and Esplanade that usually trail Dum Dum in terms of passenger volume, a Metro official said (see chart). “Between Thursday and Monday, Dum Dum recorded 15,557 passengers. The next three most-busy stations were Rabindra Sadan (7,526), Noapara (7,111) and Esplanade (5,986),” Indrani Banerjee, the Metro spokesperson, said. The diversions in the absence of the Tallah bridge and the closure of Dunlop bridge for repairs has led to long snarls on BT Road. Thousands of officegoers from Dunlop, Bonhooghly, Belghoria, Bally, Dakshineswar and other areas on the city’s northern outskirts, who used to reach the city by bus via BT Road, are now opting for the Metro from Noapara. Before the pandemic, the average daily footfall at Noapara was 10,000. It was then not counted as a busy station on the Metro route that saw more than 600,000 passengers every day. Since the resumption of services, the station’s share in the total passenger volume has been on the higher side. The number of e-passes downloaded for Noapara station has been on the higher side. “At least 3,550 passes were booked on Monday, 2,800 on Saturday and 3,000 on Friday,” an official of the agency that has developed the e-pass technology said. A colour-coded e-pass is now mandatory to enter a station and a smart card is needed to travel on a train. Since September 14, when commercial services resumed, there has been a gap between the number of passes booked and the trips made. Around 10am on Tuesday, scores of people were seen waiting on the Noapara platform. A train that started from the station had most seats occupied. Many who boarded the train at Dum Dum had to stand because most seats were occupied. Every alternate seat is now marked with a cross to ensure passengers follow distancing rules. Outside Noapara station, there were more than 30 people waiting in a queue to enter the station around 10.40am. Autos were parked on one side of the road and Tata Magics on the other. The roads leading to the station are narrow. The Noapara bus stand is around a kilometre from the station. Autos and small vehicles such as Tata Magics are the only public transport options for people travelling to and from the station. Autos usually ply between Dunlop, Bonhooghly and Noapara and the Tata Magics between Noapara and Rajchandrapur via Bally and Dakshineswar. Autos take the road along the Bagjola canal to ferry commuters between Noapara station and Dunlop and Bonhooghly. The road has seen some patchwork repairs. “The suspension of Metro services had crippled our livelihood. Now that trains have started running, we can earn something,” Sukanta Saha, the secretary of the auto drivers’ union on the Noapara-Dunlop route. At least 100 autos ply on the route, Saha said. Saurabh Ghosh, a Belghoria resident, said he was relieved that Metro services had resumed. Ghosh repairs medical and surgical instruments and has to visit private hospitals off the Bypass almost every day. When the Metro was suspended, he used to take a bus to Ultadanga and then another to Garia, he said. The journey took him more than two hours every day. “On a Metro, it takes an hour to reach New Garia from Noapara. The journey is more comfortable, too,” Ghosh said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-296
23-09-2020||Calcutta||Jadavpur University to run helplines; final semester exams from October 1||Jadavpur University will run a helpline service for students who find it difficult to upload answer scripts immediately after exams, the university said in a notice issued on Tuesday. The final semester exams for final-year undergraduate and postgraduate students will be held from October 1 to 11, the notice said. Each department will have a helpline number. Question papers will be mailed to students and they will have the numbers mentioned on them, a university official said. Each department will have a coordinator to oversee the operations of the helpline, vice-chancellor Suranjan Das said while listing the potential problems a student might face while uploading answer scripts and mailing them back. A power outage can happen at the time of mailing back the scripts or some technical glitch in a cyber cafe can come in the way of mailing them back, Das said. “In that case a student can call on the number and explain the kind of constraint he/she is facing. We will decide on the kind of assistance they can be provided with based on the nature of the difficulty they are facing… everything will be done following rules and regulations,” Das said. A student can be given some additional time for the situation to improve so that he/she can send the scripts, a university official said. If things still don’t improve, the university will engage courier service to collect the scripts, the official said. “We have already spoken to some courier companies. But students must cite genuine grounds to get the service.” If a student says he/she is facing difficulty in mailing back the scripts, he/she can be asked to send them over WhatsApp, Partha Pratim Roy, a teacher of the physics department, said. “Although the preferred mode is email, we can ask them to go for WhatsApp in case of an emergency. The WhatsApp number will be shared on the helpline then,” Roy said. Details of the helplines will be uploaded on the university’s website, VC Das said. Exams will be conducted in non-contact distance mode using digital platform to maintain distancing rules during the pandemic, the notice signed by Chiranjib Bhattacharjee, a pro-VC, said. Visually impaired candidates will send their answer scripts using voice mail. Arts and science exams will be of two hours’ duration. Only MSc Biotechnology and MSc Instrumentation Science will be of three hours’ duration. Students have been asked to mark all pages numerically and write their roll numbers on all pages. In an attempt to bridge the digital divide, the university has decided to recharge the data packs of 800-odd students immediately. “Since digital platforms will be used to upload answer scripts, we believe some final-year students, included among the 800-odd students, will need the data packs,” an official said. Elaborate arrangements have been made so that no student misses out on the exams, Das said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-296
23-09-2020||Calcutta||Govt committee to explore setting up of cycle lanes||A committee of government officials and an external expert has been set up to explore possibilities of creating dedicated cycle lanes in the city and among its members is a representative of the city police, officials said. The police recently turned down a plea to have dedicated cycle lanes in Calcutta. However, on Tuesday, Santosh Pandey, the joint commissioner (traffic) of Calcutta police, said they were not shutting the door on the proposal to have cycle lanes. There were challenges in carving out space for cycles on existing roads but a plan can be worked out if all stakeholders chipped in, he said. Among members of the committee are a professor of IIT Kharagpur, who is also an urban transportation specialist. Representatives of the Calcutta Municipal Corporation, Calcutta Metropolitan Development Authority, transport department, Hooghly River Bridge Commissioners, environment department and Calcutta police are the other members. “We are ready to explore possibilities of having cycle lanes on city roads. We are not completely shutting out the proposal. Let suggestions come,” Pandey said. “There are issues like parking along the kerbs. The CMC has to think about it if cycle lanes are to be created next to the pavement.” Metro had on Friday reported that the city police had turned down a proposal from the CMDA to have dedicated lanes for cycles. Pandey’s statements on Tuesday signalled a shift from the police’s earlier stand. Cycles have become the preferred mode of transport for many people since the Covid-19 pandemic began as they allow people to maintain a safe distance from others, something that is not possible in buses or autorickshaws. Cycles are being promoted across the world as a cleaner and greener transport that can help reduce carbon emissions as the world braces to combat the impact of climate change. In Calcutta, however, most roads are out of bounds for cyclists. “Cycles are allowed in lanes and bylanes, not on arterial roads,” an officer said. Critics of this policy said this was absurd as no one one would be able to reach their destination on a cycle if most roads are out of bounds for cyclists. Satanjib Gupta, the “bicycle mayor” of Calcutta, said: “Ours is the only city in India where there are restrictions on cyclists on arterial roads. Even a congested city like Mumbai has no such restriction.” “Bicycle mayor” is an honorary position given to cycling enthusiasts by a Netherlands-based organisation named BYCS, which promotes cycling across the globe. Forty-four Indian cities have bicycle mayors, said Gupta. Faridabad, he said, has carved out space from roads for cycles. “They did it about a fortnight ago. The information was shared in our network of cyclists. If they can do it, why can’t Calcutta?” asked Gupta. Sathya Sankaran, the bicycle mayor of Bangalore, said: “17km of road length in the tech town is getting dedicated cycle lanes. Besides, cycle lanes are being carved out along 30km of road length in the Vidhan Soudha-Raj Bhavan area.” Roads where cycle lanes are being created are all wider than 15 metres. In narrower roads, bicycles share space with all other modes of transport, he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-296
23-09-2020||Calcutta||Permission to seek fresh applications for admission to undergraduate courses||The state higher education department has granted permission to colleges and universities to seek fresh applications for admission to undergraduate courses after noticing a large number of seats lying vacant. The colleges can reopen their admission portal for receiving fresh applications but the admission process will have to be completed by October 30, a government notification said. “It is observed that a good number of seats are still lying vacant in different General degree colleges and Unitary universities. The competent authority of the department has given due consideration to this fact and decided that the colleges/Universities, where seats are lying vacant, may reopen the admission portal for receiving the fresh appli-cations and complete the admission process by 30th October, 2020,” the notification reads. Many students have applied in multiple colleges in subjects that are in demand. But they have not been able to secure a seat in their chosen subjects in any of the institutions where they submitted applications. Many such students were worried about losing a year. “Such students can now apply afresh in institutions where there are vacancies. That will help them prevent loss of a year,” an official of Calcutta University said. The government had barred colleges and universities from accepting applications from candidates beyond the date fixed for the online submission of admission forms. August 26 was the last date for accepting applications. The last date for closing the admission process was September 25 but that has been extended till October 30. The principal of a college in south Calcutta said only four out of 25 seats in philosophy and two out of as many seats in Sanskrit have been filled. Seats are vacant in economics and Bengali, too. The head of another college said many seats in subjects like Bengali, political science and Urdu were vacant. Lady Brabourne College has vacancies in Persian, Hindi, Sanskrit and philosophy. The college has decided to publish a “wish list” for students who had applied in the first round but failed to get a seat in the subject of their choice. These students can opt for any of the subjects that have vacant seats. “We will wait for some time to see the students’ response. If there is no response, we will reopen our portal and seek fresh applications,” principal Shiuli Sarkar said. Most have complained about vacancies, particularly in reserved categories, an official of CU said. Around 45 per cent seats in all subjects in BA, BSc and BCom courses are reserved for SC, ST, OBC-A and OBC-B candidates and students with disabilities. But in some colleges seats for general category students, too, are lying vacant in subjects that are “not much in demand among students”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-296
23-09-2020||Calcutta||Husband steals scooter to ‘gift wife’ ||Time and court will tell if the account holds but a lockdown story that will initially bring out the titters and then possibly a tear or two has been added to the police files in the city. A scooterist who saw a woman park her scooter in Behala and leave the key behind by mistake parked his two-wheeler next to hers and allegedly rode away in the other vehicle with the intention of giving it to his wife as a birthday gift. Subsequent investigations and eyewitness accounts suggest the man then came back in an autorickshaw to take his own scooter back home. However, before he could clean the stolen scooter and present it to his wife, he was arrested and charged with theft. The complexion of what might have been little more than the misadventure of a reckless husband changed once he told his story to the police who are yet to corroborate it. The 39-year-old man told the police that he had wanted to present his wife with a scooter identical to his but the lockdown had left him in a financial crunch. An officer said: “He claimed that he worked for a private firm in Ahmedabad but lost his job during the lockdown. He now works for an insurance company but said he was not in a position to buy his wife a scooter she had been asking for.” “He said he had gone back to the theft spot in an auto to bring back his scooter. He had planned to gift the stolen scooter to his wife after cleaning it but the police team reached his house before that,” the officer added. The stolen scooter belonged to Moumita Karmakar, a Thakurpukur resident who rode her scooter to work on Monday as she usually does. She forgot to take the keys from the ignition after parking the two-wheeler near Behala Blind Boys’ Academy. Hours later, when she stepped out of her office, her scooter was missing. Karmakar went to Behala police station to report the theft. Officers started looking at footage from CCTV cameras in the neighbourhood and spotted a man approaching the parked scooter and riding away. “It was not apparent from the footage that he had parked his two-wheeler nearby. The picture quality was grainy. He was wearing a mask, making our task to identify him a little more difficult,” an officer said. Armed with still photographs of the man obtained from the CCTV footage, the police started looking around and found multiple witnesses who said they saw him park one vehicle, drive away another and return to the spot to take away the first vehicle. After a few hours’ search, the police could zero in on the man and found two scooters parked outside his two-storey home in Haridevpur, around 2km from the spot where Karmakar had parked her scooter. Booked under a non-bailable section of theft, he will be produced before the court on Wednesday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-296
23-09-2020||Calcutta||Crunch forces big Durga Puja to opt for smaller idols||In its 52nd year, the organisers of Durga Puja at Mohammad Ali Park are doing something for the first time — they have opted for a smaller ekchala idol. With the pandemic playing havoc and sponsors yet to respond, the organisers have been forced to slash their budget to nearly one-fourth of the amount they used to collect in previous years. And the first casualty is the idol. At Mohammad Ali Park, one of the biggest pujas on Central Avenue, idols would usually be around 20-22 feet in height. This year the height will not exceed 12ft. “We have not received a single query from corporate sponsors for advertisements till now,” said Ashok Ojha, the joint secretary of Mohammad Ali Park puja committee. “Every year, nearly 90-95 per cent of our budget would be sourced from advertisements. Given the location and the grandeur, ours would be a natural choice for top-notch corporates. But this year it’s different.” The decorators have been told to come up with a basic structure and for the first time the puja premises and the surroundings will not be illuminated by lights from Chandernagore. “Kush Bera, an artisan from Midnapore who makes our idols, is yet to quote his fee. The decorators have said they need some amount to pay the labourers,” said a committee member. “It’s really difficult. We had no alternative but to opt for ekchala idols this year.” Ekchala — or one arch — refers to the tradition of placing all idols and the demon against the backdrop of an arch. While several pujas in Calcutta have stuck to the age-old ekchala tradition, at Mohammad Ali Park it has always been different. Alok Sen, a trained artist, would come up with theme-based idols every year. Following Sen’s death, the mantle passed on to Bera. Last year, the Mohammad Ali Park puja was held in the courtyard of one of Calcutta's oldest fire stations on Central Avenue. The venue had to be shifted because cracks had developed in the British-era reservoir under Mohammad Ali Park. This year, too, the puja will be held on the fire station premises as the reservoir is yet to be repaired. The relatively smaller area of the courtyard compared to the park makes the task easier for the organisers. With the budget tight, every evening members will meet and take stock of the amount left in the puja committee’s bank account. “We are eagerly waiting to hear from the chief minister, who will meet representatives of various puja committees later this week,” Ojha said. “Our puja will happen and like every year there will be a message in our concept. I won't say what's that.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-296
23-09-2020||Calcutta||Three arrested for denying Madrasa teachers accommodation||The manager of a guest house in Salt Lake, an employee of another guest house in the township and a booking agent were arrested on Tuesday following allegations by 10 madrasa teachers that they were driven out of one guest house and refused accommodation in another because of their identity. The accused are Goutam Saha, 35, the manager of a guest house in DL Block; Sanjay Sen, alias Debu, 33, an employee of a guest house at CL; and Tubai Sharma, 25, an agent who had taken the group to two guest houses. The teachers from Malda have alleged that they had booked rooms in the DL Block guest house. All the men have been charged under various sections of the Indian Penal Code, including 295A (deliberate and malicious acts intended to outrage religious feelings of any class by insulting its religion or religious beliefs) and 406 (criminal breach of trust). If convicted, the three can be jailed for three years and fined. A court in Salt Lake remanded them in two days’ police custody. “We have started a case and are probing it from every angle,” said Mukesh, the Bidhannagar City Police commissioner. One of the teachers said they got the impression that they were taken from one guest house to another and refused rooms because of their names, appearances and clothes. The teachers said they still could not fathom how such a thing could happen to them. “We are happy that the authorities have acted. We keep travelling to Calcutta on work. We regularly book guest houses to freshen up. This never happened before and we are aghast and still cannot accept that this has happened in Bengal,” said Mahbubur Rahman, the headmaster of Alipur Madrasah Shiksha Kendra in Kaliachak, Malda. The 10 madrasa teachers from Malda, including eight headmasters, arrived in Salt Lake around 6am on Monday after an overnight journey from Malda. They met with Sharma, who allegedly told them that there were no rooms in the DL-39 guest house and took them to the CL Block property. The teachers were given rooms at CL-264 but were asked to leave after a couple of hours. A police officer said Sen was on duty when the teachers were turned out of the CL Block guest house. Sharma then accompanied them to CJ2. In CJ Block, the group was made to wait for 45 minutes in a hall and then told that they could not be accommodated in any of the rooms, one of the teachers said. The teachers, who had booked rooms in the DL Block guest house to freshen up before attending a meeting in the education department, had no option but to take shelter under the East-West Metro viaduct (the ground below the overhead tracks) near Bikash Bhavan amid showers and left the city after finishing work. The guest houses in DL, CL and CJ blocks are operating out of properties that are marked as residential in the records of the urban development department, an official said. “Guest houses or other commercial establishments can run out of Salt Lake properties only after they are converted into commercial properties following the payment of a fee,” the official said. “The rates vary from one sector to another and commercial properties in Salt Lake have to pay a higher tax compared with residential ones," said an official of the Bidhannagar Municipal Corporation. The owners of the guest houses in CL and CJ blocks have not even applied for a trade licence from the Bidhannagar Municipal Corporation, the official said. Krishna Chakraborty, the mayor of the corporation and whose ward includes CJ and CL blocks, said it was the urban development department's duty to check the status of properties used for commercial purposes. Asked why the corporation was not acting against guest house owners operating without a trade licence, Chakraborty said they did not have enough personnel to do so. “Our councillors don’t have enough manpower to check the paperwork of every guest house,” she said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-296
