24-09-2020||Calcutta||Still-water panic along canal banks||Mosquitoes have laid siege to places along the banks of the Kestopur and Bagjola canals and the Eastern Drainage Channel in Salt Lake, Baguiati, Kestopur and parts of Rajarhat. The reason: stagnant water in these canals. The situation is such that residents are forced to keep their doors and windows shut at all times, many people who live in these areas have said. More than one official of the Bidhannagar Municipal Corporation confirmed the water in these canals was stagnant. Mayor Krishna Chakra-borty said she had requested the irrigation department to release water from the Hooghly into the canals to ensure the water starts flowing. “We are taking all steps to keep the water in these canals flowing. We are working in coordination with the irrigation department to ensure that mosquitoes don’t breed in the canals,” Chakraborty said. Weeds are being trimmed and bushes cleared, she said. The Aedes aegypti mosquito that causes dengue can breed even in a coin-sized blob of water. In Salt Lake, several blocks including AE, AB, BD, AC, AL, BL, SA AH situated off the Kestopur canal in sectors I and II as well blocks HB, IB, IC, KB and KC situated off the Eastern Drainage Channel in Sector III have reported an increase in the number of mosquitoes in the past couple of days. “The water in the Kestopur canal has turned stagnant and it is a perfect breeding ground for mosquitoes. I am keeping all my windows and doors shut as I don’t want to suffer from dengue again,” Shatarupa Bhowmick, a resident of SA Block who had suffered from dengue a year ago, said. A Kestopur resident said mosquito nets were never taken off in her house. “It is the only place safe from mosquitoes, be it day or night.” The canal is a two-minute walk from her house, she said. “People are dumping garbage on the banks as well as in the canal because of which the water has stopped flowing,” Anamika Saha, who lives in Kestopur, said. “We can see mosquitoes hovering over the water at all times of the day. The situation turns scary at night when swarms of mosquitoes take over the locality,” she said. On Saturday afternoon, this newspaper spotted garbage piles along the banks of the Kestopur canal. There were mosquitoes buzzing over the water of Eastern Drainage Channel. A large number of styrofoam cups, coconut shells, plastic cups and bags filled with water lined the banks of the two canals. Pranay Kumar Ray, the mayoral council member who is in charge of health, said the corporation had been spraying larvicide and conducting door-to-door dengue surveys. “We are doing everything we can. But awareness is the key and people should not allow freshwater to accumulate near their houses,” Ray said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-294
24-09-2020||Calcutta||Hakim makes  a promise to the disabled||The boss of the Calcutta Municipal Corporation has promised to “rectify” public utility buildings and other public spaces that are not friendly towards the physically challenged in terms of facilities. Firhad Hakim, the chairperson of the CMC’s board of administrators, said on Monday that he would take necessary action so that physically challenged people don’t face problems accessing these places. “This should be done. We should try and rectify things that come to our notice,” Hakim said when Metro asked him if he would bring in changes to ensure public utility buildings are easily accessible to the physically challenged. A 33-year-old physically challenged woman had lodged a complaint with the West Bengal Clinical Establishment Regulatory Commission saying she faced problems in accessing toilets and the ultrasonography room of Quadra Medical Services, a diagnostic centre on Hazra Road. She had said during the hearing on September 10 that the toilets were not equipped for the needs of a physically challenged person. Problem is not limited to one diagnostic centre. Almost all diagnostic centres and other public utility buildings in Calcutta lack facilities for the physically challenged. A few have toilets equipped with facilities for the physically challenged. “I will try to see that every public utility building has toilets for the physically challenged. Besides, there should be facilities for them in our public spaces,” Hakim said. Disability rights activist Jeeja Ghosh said there were laws to protect the rights of the disabled. “But they are not implemented. My request to Hakim is to see that the laws are implemented in letter and spirit.” The CMC’s building rules have a clause saying public utility buildings have to be disabled-friendly. Builders rarely follow it, according to civic engineers. Public utility buildings should have larger toilets with wide doors so that wheelchairs can easily turn, architect Abin Chaudhuri said. Walls should have handrails, basins and urinals should be at a lower height, he said. “The changes should be brought in schools, colleges, restaurants, clinical establishments, theatres and parks and gardens. Even Sulabh complexes are not designed to serve the physically challenged,” Chaudhuri said. Such a “hostile environment in our public spaces” forces physically challenged people to stay indoors, Kamalika Bose, a conservation architect who works with urban neighbourhoods and communities, said. “We have fine-tuned our thinking that people with disabilities do not exist. We have ‘invisibilised’ them. We never ever think that a toilet in a public space — something we take for granted — cannot be accessed by a part of our population,” Bose said. Both Chaudhuri and Bose urged Hakim to see to it that buildings without such facilities were retrofitted to make them disabled-friendly. Buildings in future will have such facilities because people have become more conscious, Chaudhuri said. “The real difficulty will be to introduce changes in buildings that are visited by a large number of people but don’t have toilets or other facilities for the physically challenged. The civic authorities should force them to bring in changes.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-294
24-09-2020||Calcutta||ICSE, ISC improvement exams in October||The Council for the Indian School Certificate Examinations will hold improvement exams for the ICSE and ISC batches of 2020 from October 6 to 9, the council said on Wednesday. The improvement test for ICSE students will be held between October 6 and 9. The ISC students will take the exams on October 6 and 7. The compartmental exams, too, will be held in October, the council said. For ICSE students, the compartmental exams will be held on October 6 and 7. For ISC students, the test will be held on October 6. The council had earlier announced that it would hold improvement and compartmental exams in November depending on the pandemic situation.If the situation did not improve, the exams would be held along with next year’s ICSE and ISC exams, the council had said. The council decided to change its earlier decision because of the way the all-India entrance tests such as the NEET and IIT-Main were held, Gerry Arathoon, council secretary and chief executive, said. “The compartmental exams of the CBSE, too, are in progress. So, we decided to conduct the exams in October to ensure our students don’t face any problem during undergraduate admissions.” The timetables for the exams were released on Wednesday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-294
24-09-2020||Calcutta||On Chowringhee, decay & suspicion take root||With their crown of parasitic plants and without any plaster left to conceal the brick-and-mortar structures, the four buildings at Nos 1A SN Banerjee Road, and 9, 10 and 11 JL Nehru Road — all LIC property, and all cheek  by jowl — are pictures of neglect. Located at Dorina Crossing, they are the oldest constructions on Chowringhee. They stand out in William Wood’s lithographs of 1833, and in later photographs too. They look rickety but are structurally strong. They have withstood the East-West Metro tunneling in the vicinity. Although  LIC flatly denies it, tenants maintain LIC plans to demolish the buildings and construct a market there instead. According to the street directory in the 1915 edition of the PM Bagchi almanac, 8 Chowringhee Road was occupied by Yusuf Ali, Hibtullah & Co Jewellers and Watchmakers; 9 Chowringhee Road by Dr Smith Brothers, American dentists, Dr DR Smith and WM Smith; 9/1, 9/2 by AW Perot & Co Electrical Engineers & Co; 9/2 by The Columbia Dental Supply Co Ltd; 10 by Bourne & Shepherd, photographers. No 12  is now Peerless Inn. The jewellery shop has disappeared, but the spacious chamber of Drs Smith Brothers, dental surgeons, on the first floor of 9 JL Nehru Road (Chowringhee) was occupied by dentist Samir Kumar Basu till his death. Basu, who lived in a smaller flat above it, had said earlier that the American dental surgeons, MJK Smith and BJK Smith, arrived in Calcutta in 1897, and a group of orthodontists worked here under that name till 1920, when they left. According to LIC sources, as of now the corporation, has no plans to build a market there but it does want the tenants and unauthorised occupants to vacate the buildings “condemned” by the Calcutta Municipal Corporation. It can only decide on their future after structural engineers test their durability. 9 JL Nehru Road, which was said to have been leased from Jewish tycoon Sir David Ezra, has a wooden staircase similar to its neighbours. Adjoining No. 9 is the Esplanade Metro station. It used to be No. 8, once famous for its Lipton tea neon sign showing a kettle decanting an amber fluid. The shop Ma Dorina was housed in it, after which this intersection was named. Auddy & Co, (established in 1828) tobacconist, has its establishment on the ground floor, now split into two by partners. Besides tobacco, they stock other goods too.  Subhas Chandra Bose, C.R. Das, Mujibar Rahman, K.L. Saigal and Satyajit Ray were once its patrons. Italian Store, adjacent to it, now closed, is about 150 years old. The Mallicks, who own it, had bought the establishment from Italians. They dealt in olive oil and wine, and later luggage. No. 10, next to it, is encircled by eateries.  Its interiors are relatively well maintained. Hawkers selling garments occupy the entrance of No. 9 and the adjoining pavement. Neglected the buildings certainly are, but tenants pay a pittance as rent, and quite justifiably, LIC demands rent at market rates. There has been a running battle between tenants and the LIC over such issues since the 1960s. Dora Smith, where fashionable women and actresses like Kanan Debi once shopped for party wear, was located at 1A SN Banerjee Road. This building used to house Keventer’s and Livewire Cleaning, the first mechanical dry cleaning establishment. The Dasgupta family, which once owned Bhagyalakshmi Cotton Mills, had lived in that building at what was then 1A and 1B Corporation Street from 1946, when they moved from Dhaka. At that time, the building had marble floors — it still does. The Dasguptas have vacated the space. These buildings, ghosts of their former selves, have been neglected by the LIC ever since they came into its possession. Only a public outcry prevented the demolition of the Metropolitan Building — another LIC property — opposite these four. Adjacent to it is the Bourne & Shepherd building belonging to the LIC on S.N. Banerjee Road. This is falling to pieces.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-294
24-09-2020||Calcutta||When lockdown mixes with hate||The lockdown and discrimination have struck up a nexus to undermine the right to livelihood. “The trips have come down by half. We are stretching every limit to survive. On top of that, we are being discriminated against,” said Mansoor Ali, a driver. Ali was among several people — many of them from the fringes of Calcutta — who had come to the city on Wednesday to assert their right to livelihood. The protesters had assembled at the stairs of the upcoming Phoolbagan Metro station. Sandip Das, a farmer from Bhangar, sat on the stairs with a Bengali placard that read: “We grow the food that you Calcuttans eat. But our cry does not reach your ears.” Many of them have lost their income because of the pandemic. Several told this newspaper they were also facing discrimination because of their religious identity. At a time when the focus should be on generating income, the government in Delhi is busy with a divisive agenda, they added. Ali, 34, who hails from Bhangar in South 24-Parganas, said he and his friends had had their vehicles stopped in districts like Birbhum and West Midnapore in the past few months. A group had stopped his vehicle in Nalhati, Birbhum, because of a marker on his vehicle with which they identified his religion, Ali said. “I was pushed and abused,” recounted Ali, who lives with his wife, a son and a daughter. Ali drove mini-trucks laden with sand and stone chips from the districts to New Town before the lockdown. He used to earn around Rs 8,000 a month. The trips have halved now, and he is no longer sure of ferrying the material without being intercepted on some pretext or the other. Wednesday’s protest meeting at the Phoolbagan intersection was organised by a string of organisations that were at the forefront of the rallies against the new citizenship matrix. The participants at Phoolbagan demanded jobs, release of political prisoners and repeal of the Citizenship Amendment Act, National Population Register and the National Register of Citizens. Covid-19 had put the brakes on big protests in the city against the new citizenship regime but a series of “anti-people decisions” by the Centre “in the backdrop of a pandemic” have triggered a call to revive a movement against the Narendra Modi government. “For most of December, January and February, we had marched to protest against the citizenship thrust. But in the past few months, the Modi government has inflicted so many more wounds,” said Manzar Jameel, one of the speakers. He cited the farm bills and labour bills. Almost every speaker called out the Centre for using the pandemic to stifle dissent, citing the arrest of Umar Khalid and the NIA summons to scientist Parthasarathi Roy. Some of the younger participants live-streamed the proceedings. The assembly was not big in terms of numbers but slogans like “Bhookmari se azadi (Freedom from hunger)” rang out after months. Every time a speaker finished, the emcee disinfected the mic with a spray. Sukhendu Sarkar, who teaches economics at a south Calcutta college, said the pandemic had made it clear that the BJP-RSS ecosystem’s strategy was an “all-out onslaught”. “They bring one anti-people bill and before the ruckus over it settles, another anti-people bill is brought. Against such an onslaught, resistance is the only option,” he said. “Enough of staying indoors. This is the start of the revival of the street protests and mass movement against the Modi regime,” said Soumya Sahin, an assistant professor at the National University of Juridical Sciences (NUJS) and one of the organisers of the meeting.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-295
24-09-2020||Calcutta||JU to revive free classes for NET||Jadavpur University will revive free coaching classes for NET (National Eligibility Test) aspirants on digital platforms in October, said a university official. The classes, which used to be held on the campus, got suspended in March as the campus had to be closed because of the Covid pandemic. The university has decided to revive the classes on digital platforms following an appeal from a large number of students ahead of the NET exams, to be held in phases from September 24 to November 5. Candidates who qualify NET are deemed eligible to be recruited as assistant professor in universities and colleges. Registrar Snehamanju Basu issued a notice on Tuesday appealing to the teachers who are willing to take preparatory classes to enlist their names on netcoaching.teachers@jadavpuruniversity.in by September 30. Pro-vice-chancellor Pradip Kumar Ghosh said the preparatory classes would be held in the distance digital mode, which the university follows for regular undergraduate and postgraduate classes. “A large number of students appealed to us to revive the coaching classes. We have decided to resume the classes through the distance digital mode as no one knows when the campus will reopen and in-person classes will start,” Ghosh told The Telegraph. An official said a central repository would be created on the university’s website, which would have a section where course materials and lectures for the preparatory classes would be uploaded. Once the content is uploaded, the addresses of the files — in Word or PDF format, audio notes or video recordings — will be given to the students. Teachers will share the addresses of the files with the students through email or any messaging service. The university has subscribed to online platforms for more space so that the content for the undergraduate and postgraduate classes can be uploaded. “The same platform will be used to upload the content for NET aspirants,’’ the official said. In addition to this, lectures and study materials will be uploaded on YouTube and students will be given links to view the content. A teacher said students from economically weaker sections, who rely on free coaching, had appealed to the JU authorities for restoration of the coaching classes. Some of them tried to take coaching elsewhere after the campus shut down in March. “But they could not afford the expenses as their financial condition has worsened further during the pandemic,” he said. Vice-chancellor Suranjan Das said the success in conducting regular classes for undergraduate and postgraduate students on digital platforms encouraged them to revive coaching classes for NET aspirants.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-295
24-09-2020||Calcutta||Library on tram wheels||An AC single-coach tram on one of Calcutta’s oldest routes — Shyambazar to Esplanade via College Street, commonly referred to as boi para — will now have a library. When tram services on the route resume on Thursday after being shut in the aftermath of Cyclone Amphan passengers will be greeted with a free pen for a week the moment they board the tram. They can then go through the books and magazines stacked on shelves on one side. The Shyambazar-Esplanade route has remained popular among students in central Calcutta who get in and off trams, a West Bengal Transport Corporation official said. “We thought a library on wheels will be ideal while relaunching services on the route.” Rajanvir Singh Kapur, the managing director of West Bengal Transport Corporation, said the idea was to popularise trams. “More so among students who can now get to spend time browsing books while on the tram. The collection of books and magazines will be gradually increased… we hope to organise book launches, too, on this tram-library.” This will be the fifth route to become operational after several lines and cables had been uprooted by Cyclone Amphan. “Two-coach trams have compartments measuring 28ft each in length. This one has a length of 36ft and has pneumatic doors,” a WBTC official said. Another official said WBTC would try to organise book reading sessions on the tram in the next few weeks. “A literature festival, too, is on the cards in November.” Trams on the Shyambazar-Esplanade route were the first to have AC coaches last year. A one-way ticket costs Rs 20. A one-way ticket for 4km on a non-AC tram costs Rs 6. When the AC service was launched officials were worried if the ticket price would act as a hindrance. But with six trips a day, the single-coach AC tram ended up earning almost thrice the revenue than that of two-coach non-AC trams. At least 30 institutions are located within 500m of the tram route, including Scottish Church College, Bethune College, Presidency University, Sanskrit University, Calcutta University, Calcutta Medical College and Hospital and the IISWBM. Some Calcuttans are unhappy with the way two-coach trams are being converted into single-coach ones. While every city is busy developing its heritage and culture by preserving and restoring the transport system, Calcutta is walking away from it, a member of the Calcutta Tram Users Association said. “Instead of restoring and running their historical rolling stock as heritage specials and setting up a proper tram museum, the transport department is busy writing them off,” another member said. The Calcutta Tram Users Association has called for a protest on September 27 at the Kalighat tram depot's Gate No. 2, demanding the preservation of “heritage wooden trams”. The sense of history and heritage often dies an immature death when modernisation is carried out without proper planning and there is a lust for profit, he said. “The older rolling stock of trams in Calcutta is no exception. In a city that has heritage in its every breath, trams play an immense role.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-295
24-09-2020||Calcutta||Salt Lake civic body to run checks on guest houses||The Bidhannagar Municipal Corporation will send notices to all guest houses and lodges in Salt Lake and its adjoining areas and ask them to show the documents and licences needed to run the businesses, an official of the corporation said. In Salt Lake, a building has to be recorded as a commercial property in the records of the urban development department if a guest house or lodge operates out of it. “If a guest house operates out of one or two floors of a residential building, those portions need to be converted into the commercial category by paying a fee to the urban development department,” an official of the civic body said. The operators of a guest house or a lodge also need a police permit to run such a facility and a no-objection certificate from the fire department. The kitchen needs to be listed separately and will be subjected to checks by the civic body’s health department at regular intervals. “Most guest houses in Salt Lake do not have permits and other papers. They do not even have a trade licence, which is a basic prerequisite,” the official said. “The operators who will not be able to furnish the required licences and permits issued by the police and the fire department will be given some time by the corporation to collect them, after which the authorities will take legal steps against them.” The civic body will also ask for the details of the residential properties that have been converted into commercial ones and identify the guest houses that are being operated from residential properties. The move by the civic body follows an allegation by 10 madrasa teachers from Malda that they had been driven out of one guest house and refused accommodation in another because of their identity. The teachers, who came to Calcutta to attend a meeting in the education department, had booked rooms in a third guest house but a booking agent apparently told them that the property was full and accompanied them to the other two guest houses. Three men have been arrested in connection with the allegation and the guest houses in DL, CL and CJ blocks that are under the scanner operate out of properties that are marked as residential in the records of the urban development department, an official of the department said. On August 15, a man from Punjab was injured after an associate's gun accidentally went off inside a Salt Lake guest house. That address, too, is listed as a residential property in the records of the urban development department, the official said. An officer of the Bidhannagar commissionerate said they, too, will start meeting owners of guest houses and lodges and ask them to file for police permits and fire licences if they don’t have one. “The number of guest houses that have police permission can be counted on one’s fingers in Salt Lake,” the officer said. A large number of guest houses operate in Salt Lake, Sector V, New Town, Baguiati, Lake Town, Teghoria and Kaikhali. “We will organise regular meetings with the owners and ask them to file for the police permit that is required to run a guest house. We will also give them a list of do’s and don’ts and carry out sensitisation drives,” said Mukesh, the Bidhannagar City Police commissioner. According to another officer of the commissionerate, a meeting was held a week back with guest house operators at Bidhannagar East police station. An officer who attended the meeting said most owners could not furnish any documents though they have tie-ups with online aggregators that facilitate bookings. “Most are operating from residential properties. It is difficult to determine whether it is a guest house or a residence as they don’t have any signage but are present on booking sites and mobile applications,” said the officer. Basab Basak, of the Salt Lake FE Block Residents’ Association, said the authorities must ensure that all guest houses as well lodges follow rules and have the required licences and are checked regularly by the police.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-295
24-09-2020||Calcutta||More Metro trains, revised timings||An extension of timing and more trains are likely by next week, Metro Railway officials said on Wednesday, 10 days into the resumption of commercial services. The last trains leave the terminal stations at 7pm now. Fifty-five pairs of trains run in each direction, taking the total number of daily trains to 110. “The plan is to increase three pairs of trains in each direction. The number of trains daily will then be 116. The last trains will leave the terminal stations at 7.30pm,” an official said. More and more people are stepping out for work every day and traffic snarls are back on city roads. The roads, which used to be deserted in late evenings a month ago, are busy in the night now. The number of Metro passengers was around 20,000 — way below the 100,000 cap that Metro officials geared up for in the run-up to the resumption of commercial services — on September 14, the first day when services resumed. The number of e-passes booked was more than 50,000. An e-pass is mandatory to enter the station and a smart card to board a train. The number of passengers has been on the rise and is expected to cross 50,000 by next week, the Metro official said. The gap between the number of passes booked and the actual trips made has been narrowing consistently. On Tuesday, around 70,000 passes had been booked. The passenger count was little over 46,500. “That means more than 65 per cent of the bookings translated into trips. On Day 1, less than 50 per cent of the bookings had converted into trips,” on official of the agency that has developed the e-pass technology said. “The number of passengers is increasing every day. We are mulling an increase in the number of trains and an extension of the timings,” Indrani Banerjee, the Metro spokesperson, said on Wednesday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-295
24-09-2020||Calcutta||Deposit order to two ‘negligent’ hospitals||The clinical establishment regulatory commission on Wednesday issued an interim order asking two private hospitals to deposit Rs 1 lakh and Rs 4 lakh after they were prima facie found negligent in the way a Covid-19 patient was treated. Woodlands Hospital, which allegedly refused to keep a 79-year-old patient after he tested positive for Covid-19, has been asked to deposit Rs 1 lakh, retired judge Ashim Kumar Banerjee, the chairperson of West Bengal Clinical Establishment Regulatory Commission, said on Wednesday. The patient, Ashok Ghosh, had been admitted to the Alipore hospital a few days before with complaints of gastroenteritis. Desun Hospital, which allegedly kept the patient untreated in its ambulance for an hour till the family made an initial deposit of Rs 2 lakh, has been asked to submit Rs 4 lakh. Ghosh, a resident of Hindustan Park, was admitted to Desun on June 11. He passed away on June 26. The case once again throws light on the practice adopted by several private hospitals during the pandemic of asking for steep deposit amounts from patients before admitting them. It also highlights the practice followed by some other hospitals of refusing to treat anyone who has tested positive for Covid on the ground that those are non-Covid hospitals. “The man was admitted to Woodlands Hospital on June 4 with complaints of gastroenteritis. He underwent a Covid-19 test during admission and the result was negative. A few days later, he underwent another test and this time the result was positive,” Banerjee said. “The complainant, who is the deceased person’s son, alleged that Woodlands asked them to shift the patient within three hours and also asked them to clear the bill of Rs 2.09 lakh,” Banerjee said. The chairperson added that an official of Woodlands said during Wednesday’s hearing that they did not set a deadline for shifting the patient. “The family had no complaint against our hospital,” an Woodlands official told The Telegraph. Asked about the commission’s order to the hospital to submit Rs 1 lakh, he said they were yet to get any written order. The commission chairperson said Woodlands officials had given the family the names of three hospitals where they could shift Ghosh. One option was Desun Hospital. An ambulance from Desun came to Woodlands to transfer the patient. “The ambulance charged Rs 9,500 for the 11-km journey from one hospital to another,” Banerjee said. Another round of ordeal began for the family when the ambulance arrived at Desun. “Officials from the hospital apparently demanded Rs 2 lakh from the family as a deposit before admission.  When Ghosh’s family asked for time, they said the patient would not receive any treatment till the money was deposited,” Banerjee said. Ghosh’s family got in touch with someone abroad. That person transferred the money to the hospital within an hour. “For the one hour that passed before Rs 2 lakh was transferred, the patient lay inside the ambulance without any doctor attending to him,” Banerjee said. The patient was wheeled into the hospital only after the money arrived. “We will not comment till we get a copy of the order,” Tapas Mukherjee, the deputy managing director of Desun Hospital, told The Telegraph. The family cleared Desun’s bill of Rs 8.13 lakh, Banerjee said. “This is an interim order. We have prima facie found negligence on the part of both hospitals,” . said Banerjee. While hearing a similar complaint against Desun in August, the commission had asked the hospital to deposit Rs 10 lakh. The son of a woman had lodged a complaint that his mother, a Covid-19 patient, died because the hospital refused to treat her as they were unable to pay an initial deposit of Rs 3 lakh. The woman had allegedly died while waiting in an ambulance outside Desun Hospital for over an hour as the family tried to arrange the money. “We have tagged the two complaints against Desun and will hear them together,” said Banerjee.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-295
24-09-2020||Calcutta||ICSE council seeks feedback on syllabus||The Council for Indian School Certificate Examinations (CISCE) has asked the schools affiliated to it to give their feedback on the “reduced” ICSE and ISC syllabi. The council will consider the views when it determines its plan of action, a circular issued to the schools on Tuesday night says. The feedback will also be used to assess the efficacy of online teaching, which has replaced in-person classes because of the Covid-19 pandemic. “The CISCE would appreciate your views and the views of the various Subject Teachers in your school regarding the reduction of the syllabuses as made till date (further reduced syllabi, reduced syllabi and the syllabi in which no reduction has been made). Your valuable feedback on the same will be most appreciated for the CISCE to make a proper assessment of the present situation and help to determine its future plan of actions accordingly,” the council’s circular reads. The school heads have been asked to mail the feedback to the council by September 30. The council has reduced the syllabuses of Classes X and XII twice since July because of “significant loss” of teaching hours since March. All campuses have been shut since March as a precaution against Covid-19. After the first round of curtailment in July, the syllabuses had to be reduced again this month because many students and teachers complained that the earlier reduction was “not significant.” The CISCE in its circular has asked the school heads and also subject teachers to give their views separately on both rounds of curtailment. The syllabi of some of the subjects have not been curtailed at all. The schools heads and subject teachers have been asked to give their feedback on those subjects as well. The council has affiliated schools in many semi-urban and rural areas where the institutions are finding it difficult to ensure cent percent attendance in online sessions because of poor Internet connectivity and other constraints, the principal of a school said. “The council will use the feedback to assess the situation and make a decision,” the principal said. The council has conducted a survey in which it has found that many schools, particularly in districts, had not been able cover the extent of the syllabus they were supposed to complete by September. The ICSE and the ISC examinations are slated to be held in February and March.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-295
24-09-2020||Calcutta||Disbelief to shock: A scooter ride||When the family had received a call announcing that the son had bought a second-hand scooter for his wife, there was disbelief because even Rs 6,000 was not a measly sum during the pandemic. A few hours later, when the same son was arrested for alleged theft, the disbelief turned into shock. A day after her son had been arrested for the alleged theft of a scooter, his 65-year-old mother could not come to terms with the fact that her son has done something like that. The 39-year-old man, who had lost his job during the lockdown and had joined another office where too he could not stay for long because of a transfer order, had spotted a woman park her scooter in Behala and leave the key behind by mistake. He parked his scooter next to hers before allegedly riding away on the other vehicle with the intention of giving it to his wife. The court on Wednesday granted him bail, taking note of his clean past and the fact that the stolen vehicle had already been recovered. The defence lawyer prayed before the magistrate to consider his client’s educational background and emphasised that he was not a criminal. The public prosecutor too did not seek custody of the accused,  citing the recovery of the vehicle. On Monday afternoon (when the alleged theft happened), the family was trying to contact the man as he was getting late for lunch. He had then announced that he had bought a scooter for Rs 6,000. When both his mother and wife expressed disbelief, he made a video call to his wife to show the two-wheeler. Hours before his arrest, early on Tuesday morning, he showed the new two-wheeler to one of his young neighbours. “We were surprised why he would buy a second-hand vehicle. My daughter-in-law had once mentioned that a scooter would  help her once she completed her BEd and would start a job. But she never demanded anything,” said the elderly woman sitting at their two-storey home in a peaceful neighbourhood off Behala. Her deceased husband, a former mechanical engineer from Shibpur BE College who had retired from a public sector enterprise, had gifted their only son a blue scooter four years ago. The scooter their son allegedly stole for his wife was identical to his own, except the shade of blue. A day later, officers of Behala police station had traced him and arrested him from his home. The allegedly stolen scooter was seized from his residence compound. His wife had been running from pillar to post since then. First, she had visited the police station on Tuesday, completed the formalities and took possession of her husband’s rings and belongings that police gave her. “She had a look of disbelief. She just asked her husband once why he did it. He was quiet,” an officer said, recalling the couple’s brief conversation at the police station on Tuesday. From Wednesday morning, the woman and her father camped at the Alipore court where her husband was to be produced and waited till late in the evening when the magistrate announced his decision to grant bail. In between, she had rushed back home once to get some money that she needed to pay as the bond against her husband’s bail. The court on Wednesday granted bail against a bond and the condition that he should cooperate with the police in their investigation. She returned home with her husband late on Wednesday evening. “We have reached home just now,” she told Metro in the evening. The man in question — who is the sole heir to their ancestral property and an undeveloped plot of land adjoining their home — did his MCom and completed his MBA through a distance-learning programme before he joined a reputable company in Ahmedabad a few years ago. He had left the job and returned to Calcutta five years ago and started work-ing in another firm. His mother said he changed several jobs before settling in one office which, she said, had closed down during the lockdown. He had started working in the accounts section of a petrol pump, from where he was transferred, forcing him to leave the job. Of late, he was trying to earn his living as an insurance agent.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-295
