25-09-2020||Calcutta||Misti Hub reopens after six months||Misti Hub, which brings sweets from multiple makers under a roof in New Town, finally reopened on Monday. Though only seven of the 11 outlets have opened shutters, residents are more than happy to see the confectionery address back in business. Tanima Ray, a resident of Action Area II, walked in the very first day. “I was on my way to meet my grandparents near Chinar Park when I noticed the lights at Misti Hub on. My grandparents are big fans of north Calcutta sweets and so we picked some up for them,” she said. “I’m so glad this place has opened again. It gives a feeling that things are getting back to the normal.” Harsha Jain and her friends had come to New Town for a long drive from Salt Lake’s AE Block. “We stopped for snacks at Dhaba Ekante and dropped by when we heard Misti Hub would be opening today itself. We’ve packed sweets for home,” she smiled. Misti Hub had opened in 2018 and boasts of some of the best-known brands from across the state. It attracts bulk orders from offices in Salt Lake, Rajarhat and New Town. Apart from online orders placed on Zomato and Swiggy, passers-by would make for a good crowd in terms of sales. Another avenue for business was air travellers who would pick up sweets from here before rushing to catch a flight at the nearby airport. During the pandemic, the state government had allowed sweet shops to reopen in June, but it is only now that Misti Hub has opened. “Each stall here is manned by three people. Plus there are cleaners, caretakers and security personnel deputed at all hours. This amounts to a headcount of almost 40 people apart from customers. This is one of the reasons we were closed till now,” explained Suprabhaat Dey, owner of  Nabakrishna Guin. While people seemed reluctant to step out initially, Dey said that he was hoping that business would look up soon. “We know sales will take time to pick up after such a pandemic. They are lower than what they used to be but we are keeping our fingers crossed,” said Sandeep Basu, of Banchharam. Housing and Infrastructure Development Corporation (Hidco), that runs the hub, has set aside several safety protocols. No more than 10 people can be inside the building at a time, the porch will not be allowed for casual photography and the benches will be cross-marked in a way that people maintain social distancing. Everyone entering the hub will be given sanitisers and will have their temperatures checked. No one will be allowed to linger for more than 10 minutes inside Misti Hub. The hub is operational from noon to 8pm but Rahul Chowrasia of Ganguraam said they had requested the authorities to allow longer hours. “Sweet shops have a fixed customer base that walks in during the wee hours looking for kochuri-jilipi-samosa. If we open at noon, we miss out on that breakfast crowd. I hope we are granted permission to open early and stay open till late.” A chunk of the business at Misti Hub used to come from Eco Park but that is still closed to the public. The stall owners have also requested Hidco for a waiver for rent for the last six months as there was no business. No decision has been taken on this issue. “About 100 people dropped in on the first day. But that was a Sunday. Monday to Thursday the crowd is usually less and it is on weekends that footfall is highest. About 50 people came between Monday and Wednesday thereafter,” said an official. saltlake@abpmail.com||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-293
25-09-2020||Calcutta||Diabetes on the rise in pandemic season||People with existing predispositions, who do not have diabetes, would do well to keep a watch over their blood glucose level in this pandemic season. We are getting a lot of new patients now. One big reason for that is stress that has increased manifold amid this uncertainty. Young people are unable to go out, children cannot play outside, adults who are bread-earners for their families are under economic duress… Stress is precipitating diabetes. Perhaps they would have got diabetes but after a year or two or five. But this period of stress is acting as an immediate trigger. There is a definite reason for this. Stress triggers the release of hormones, one of which is steroid. Steroid causes a spike in blood sugar. Lack of exercise is also not helping. People usually cite a packed schedule for being unable to exercise, though they are aware it would help keep diabetes under control. They do have a lot of free time now. But if they are mentally down, the motivation would be missing. Many are in a constant state of panic wondering what would happen if anyone in the family got infected with coronavirus. Existing diabetic patients are also reporting poor control because of stress and lack of exercise. Another hindrance to their well-being is lack of medical supervision. Many patients are unable to visit their doctor because of transport problems during lockdown. Many pathology laboratories were shut. Some others are avoiding doctor consultation as they are scared to visit a hospital. Watch over meals In some houses, the lockdown has led to feasting. That is not a good idea for diabetics. Avoid fried items and fast food, in general. Take fruits that are rich in fibre and green leafy vegetables. Timely meals help in blood sugar control. We advise patients to take three major meals and three minor meals a day. The minor meals are to be taken between breakfast and lunch, between lunch and dinner, and at bedtime. This cuts down the risk of sugar fall as well as sugar spike, as one would not feel hungry enough to crave a big meal at either lunch or dinner. The timings of the meals should be maintained. If one is house-bound, one can do freehand exercises indoors for 15-20 minutes. One can even do spot walking, simulating feet and hand movement during a walk but standing at one place. Look up yoga routines on YouTube and follow them. One can do meditation also. Mental peace is very much needed in controlling diabetes. Check for warning signs Are you feeling thirsty all the while? Is your throat getting parched? Are you feeling the urge to urinate every now and then? Are you having to even wake up at night to relieve yourself? Are you eating a lot but still losing weight? These are some of the common symptoms of the onset of diabetes. Some suffer blurring of vision. Some report genital infection. Some experience a tingling sensation under their feet or in their palm. Some in contrast lack sensation in the glove and stocking areas. Diabetes affects the nerves of the hands and feet, effecting the extremities first. Sexual problems like erectile dysfunction or apathy towards intercourse are also possible. Patients admit such problems only on being probed. Delayed healing of wounds is another give away. Some patients who leave diabetes undetected for three or four years may end up with heart attack or brain stroke or kidney ailment. Their high blood sugar is detected on hospitalisation. Diabetes and Covid Are diabetics more prone to Covid-19 infection? No, the risk is the same as that of non-diabetics. But seriousness of the infection, like requirement of oxygen, will be more in diabetics especially if the sugar level is poorly controlled (i.e. HbA1c test result is more than 7.5 to 8). In my experience, in 30 to 40 per cent Covid-19 deaths, diabetes was a significant contributor. If you add their heart, kidney or blood pressure ailments, the percentage of mortality goes up to 70. We endocrinologists are having a tough time managing blood sugar in Covid patients. Someone requiring 20 units of insulin might need 200 or more units daily once Covid-19 sets in. We are then forced to administer insulin intravenously round the clock. As told to Sudeshna Banerjee. Hammadur Rahaman is an endocrinologist with Medica Superspeciality Hospital and consults at Path India Polyclinic, next to New Town Business Club.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-293
25-09-2020||Calcutta||Online paeans to patriotism||● Kolkata Uchchhas, a DB Block-based dance group celebrated Independence Day with an online dance contest. Named Bivongo, the contest was announced a month in advance and dancers recorded their videos and sent them in for judgement. “This was the first time we tried something like this but were delighted to get about 70 entries,” said Sonali Basak, founder of Kolkata Uchchhas. The theme was patriotism and it was open to all dance forms. Some entries gave it a classical touch, some danced to evergreen songs like Dhan dhanyo pushpe bhora and yet some more danced to recent Bollywood numbers like Aye watan (Raazi). “After being locked down for months, this contest came as a breath of fresh air. I was all the more excited as the registration fee would go to charity. I shrugged off my lethargy and asked my dance teacher Puloma Sen to help me prepare a dance,” said Shirin Anwar, a resident of Falguni Abasan who is waiting to take admission in college. The judges included Susmita Nandi Sethia, who runs the Kalapi dance school in BB Block, Roshmi Bandopadhyay, who runs Vorot Nritya School of Dance at Vidyasagar Niketan and Sreemoyee Kaushiki Basak Dey, who is a dance teacher at Salt Lake School. “It was a treat for us judges to watch so many different kinds of presentations. It was tough choosing the winners but we enjoyed it,” said Sreemoyee. The videos were shared on Facebook by the organisers from August 15 and the results were announced on a Facebook “live” session where the judges and participants logged in. There was even a participant from as far away as Canada — Diya Das. The winner was Sibayan Ganguly from Bhowanipore. “Another reason this contest drew such robust participation is because the proceeds are going towards Amphan relief,” said Esha Goswami, secretary of Inner Wheel Club of Salt Lake Down Town, that handed over the money as ration to 50 needy families. Goswami runs the dance school Tarana Nritya and was one of judges of the contest too.  ● Swadhinata Tumi was the theme of the online Independence Day event organised by Gulabi Gang, a ladies club of DB Block. Mahua De Sarkar began by quoting from a poem by Shamsur Rahman and little Sharanya Mitra danced to Des rangila from the movie Fanaa. Mother-daughter duo Mousumi and Amisha Saha presented the song Bharat anokha raag hai, Rinku Banerjee recited Shamsur Rahman’s Tomake paoar jonyo je swadhinata and Anjana Banerjee recited  Swadhinatar Mane. “Though I’m cooped up with my daughter in Gurgaon since February, while performing today I felt like I was in DB Block community hall,” smiled Indrani Basak, who along with daughter Somdatta Basak presented Tagore’s vision of future India, as showcased in his poem Prarthona. Lakshmimoni Sen, another club member stuck in Bangalore, recited Harivanshrai Bachchan’s poetry. A group called Panchojonyo presented a colourful depiction of women leaders down Indian history. Chandrani Mukherjee played the role of Rani Lakshmibai, De Sarkar played Annie Basant, Mou Dubey played Sarojini Naidu, Banerjee Matangini Hazra and Sonali Basak danced to the patriotic number Dhan dhanya pushpe bhora. Towards the end, young Sharanya appeared dressed as Bharat Mata and everyone sang the national anthem in chorus.  ● Ever since I was a child, I never missed listening to the song Tobu mone rekho in Tagore’s own voice, played on the radio on Baishey Srabon. But this year owing to the pandemic I missed hearing it,” lamented Swati Sanyal, a resident of Vidyasagar Abasan. The septuagenarian was attending an online event centred around Tagore’s death anniversary. It was organised by the HA Block-based Paritosh Sen Memorial Elderly Care Society and Sanyal, in fact, sang the inaugural song Achhe dukhkho achhe mrityu. Other members followed suit. Tripti Chakraborty sang another Rabindrasangeet, Sunil Das recited Amar chetonar rongey and his wife Bani Das sang Dhaay jeno mor. Hardly an online event passes without technological issues these days and this show was no exception. Col (retd) Amit Banerjee was visible as he sang Jayo tobo bichitro anando but not audible as his sound button got muted. Chhobi Ghosh was announced as the upcoming performer but she simply could not connect due to network disturbance, so Nupur Ganguli Ghosh presented Sandhya holo go maa before her. The senior-most member, Ratish Ranjan Bhattacharjee, 94, recited Anjali, Amit Banerjee was requested for an encore and readily sang a monsoon number and Amal Laha, who has recently enrolled in the society, performed Anandodhara bohichhe. “I am not really a singer but watching everyone else perform, I too developed an urge to sing,” said Laha. “I am associated with a audit firm but am confined indoors during the lockdown so am keeping busy with cultural activities.” “This is the 10th year of our society and despite the lockdown we are trying to keep members engaged with online events,” said founder and secretary of the society Sarmishta Sen Das. The society provides medical, social and legal help to members.” She also mentioned their Suraha project, whereby members have adopted marginalised senior citizens living in the slums behind Ruby General Hospital and how they have been tending to their needs even during the lockdown.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-293
25-09-2020||Calcutta||A thought for rhinos||The World Rhinoceros Day on September 22 may have quietly passed by this year but the colourful presence at the junction near Aliah University, where two colourful rhino sculptures stand, is a reminder of the informative session that used to be held at the spot to mark the occasion till last year. Naturalist Arjan Basu Roy, who would be a regular presence at the programme, shared some interesting facts of the rhinoceros with The Telegraph. The lockdown hasn’t spared anyone this year. Has it had any effect of wild animals? It has — both good and bad. The lockdown meant no more tourists at national parks so the rhinos were at peace without any intrusions. But monitoring of the forest through the eyes of tourist also stopped. Besides the forest department’s internal patrols, 30 to 40 tourist jeeps would do rounds of the parks twice a day. It allowed that much more surveillance. If anyone spotted an ill rhino or any suspicious activity it would get reported.The mention of ‘rhino’ brings to mind a huge and strong creature. How strong are they? The females weigh about 1,600kg and the males 2,200kg. Rhinos have a life span of about 35 years and after the age of two, they could be strong enough to kill a tiger. Rhinos and tigers rarely fight, though. And they can run at 55-60kph.Are they dangerous? They are only dangerous if threatened. If you go within 10 feet of a rhino, he’ll think you’ve come to harm him and attack. With their magnificent horns rhinos usually fight with fellow rhinos. But if they decide to attack a person they usually bite. Males fight among themselves to decide who mates with a female and these fights are deadly. They can go on non-stop for days and at times end only when one has killed the other.Do rhinos have predators? Adult rhinos have no natural predators but the young ones can be targeted by lions. Once a rhino dies and decomposes, hyenas and other carrion-animals (those that eat carcasses) feed on it.Is the skin of the rhino really that thick? Oh yes! It is extremely tough and smooth. So much so that sometimes when poachers shoot at rhinos, the bullets slip off their rounded body.And the horns? Rhino horns are actually modified body hair. Baby rhinos are not born with them and the horns grow with age. Both males and females have them. Curiously, despite being tough, the horns weigh at most 2.5kg.And these horns are what poachers are after? Sadly, yes. Rhino horns are said to have medicinal properties and fetch big bucks in the south east Asian black markets. Rhinos defecate at the same spot every day. That’s where poachers wait for them. They shoot the animals at specific spots where their skin is soft — such as the neck. Villagers tip off poachers about rhino movements for a share in the price it fetches.Do poachers tranquillise the rhinos and saw off the horns? No, that would be too risky. If this two tonne beast even stirs in pain while under sedation, he could crush the poacher under its weight. So the poachers shoot to kill. And then they saw off the horns.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-293
25-09-2020||Calcutta||This month, that year||2018: Two underground passes on the EM Bypass are inaugurated in September — one at Beleghata Connector and the other near Hyatt Regency. 1914: A Japanese ship Komagata Maru arrives in Calcutta from Canada on September 27 carrying hundreds of Indians who had wanted to migrate but were refused entry by the Canadians. The British government believes those returning are political agitators and tries to arrest those like Baba Gurdit Singh on board, who they believe are the leaders. Chaos ensues, shots are fired and 19 passengers are killed. Canada Post releases a stamp to commemorate the Komagata Maru incident on its 100th anniversary (in picture).  1932: As per Masterda Surya Sen’s plan, freedom fighter Pritilata Waddedar leads a team to attack the Pahartali European Club in Chittagong that bears a signboard “Dogs and Indians not allowed”. Pritilata is shot by police during the September 23 attack and later swallows cyanide to resist arrest. After Independence, a statue of the lady would be installed adjacent to the club where she died.  2009: Chief minister of Andhra Pradesh Y.S.R. Reddy dies after a helicopter he is flying in crashes in a forested area on September 2. YSR, as he was popularly known, was a doctor before joining active politics in 1978. He became chief minister in 2004 and was sworn in a second time months before his death in 2019. Over a hundred of his supporters are reported to have committed suicide on hearing the news of his death. 1846: American dentist William Morton publicly demonstrates the use of ether as an anaesthetic during a tooth extraction on September 30. Before this, patients used to be conscious during surgery and suffer excruciating pain. Morton, however, tries to patent the chemical under a different name but the truth comes to light and he receives much flak. He remains embroiled in controversy for the rest of his life. 1950: An article in The Miami Herald on September 17 describes mysterious disappearances in the Atlantic ocean between Florida, Puerto Rico and Bermuda. More reports follow about missing planes and ships and soon a triangular area is demarcated to show where in the sea they are all going missing. Even though no pattern or explanation is ever established, the Bermuda Triangle captures public imagination.  1999: Communication is lost with Mars Climate Orbiter, a robotic probe launched by American space organisation Nasa on September 1999. The probe had been launched in December 1998 to study the Martian atmosphere and climate. Investigation reveals that the failure had happened as the ground-based software had calculated some figures in the non-SI units pound-force seconds instead of the SI units of newton-seconds that they were using. 1916: M.S. Subbulakshmi is born in Madurai to a family of musicians on September 16. She learns both Carnatic and Hindustani classical, and at the age of 13 manages to impress the selection committee of the prestigious Madras Music Academy, which breaks tradition and hosts a child as key performer. The audience hails her as a prodigy and she embarks on a lifelong career of music, winning the greatest of laurels across the world. 2006: Steve Irwin, popular Australian zookeeper, television personality and wildlife expert dies on September 4 after being attacked by a stingray while filming in the Great Barrier Reef. Famous for his documentaries with animals, Irvin was fondly known as “The Crocodile Hunter” and news of this death shocked fans as well as heads of states.  2007: Indian cricketer Yuvraj Singh hits six sixes in an over off English bowler Stuart Broad in a World T20 tournament game on September 19. In the same match in South Africa, Singh scores the fastest 50 in any format of international cricket, in just 12 balls. He finishes his innings with 58 off 16 balls, winning the man of the match award. India wins the game and eventually the tournament. What is your most treasured personal memory of September? Write to The Telegraph Salt Lake, 6 Prafulla Sarkar Street, Calcutta 700001 or email to saltlake@abpmail.com||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-293
25-09-2020||Calcutta||Civic bodies on anti-dengue drive||The Sector V authorities are running a pilot project with a machine that will determine the kind of mosquitoes swarming the area. “The machine has been developed by a start-up and attracts mosquitoes using lactic acid. It can determine the breed of the mosquito by counting its wing-flapping rate,” explained Debashis Sen, chairman Nabadiganta Industrial Township Authority (NDITA) on Sunday. “The findings have suggested that the dengue-causing Aedes Aegypti is most active from a time period of 6am to 7am and so we have adjusted our larvaecide-spraying and mosquito-fogging schedules accordingly,” said Sen. The Salt Lake, Sector V and New Town authorities carried out a number of dengue eradication measures and awareness programmes on the day as part of the state-wide “Dengue Vijay Abhijan”. NDITA has also chalked out a map using footage from drones to mark potentially vulnerable areas in Sector V as breeding grounds for mosquitoes. “We have mapped the entire township and have identified the problem areas,” said an official. “As very few people are going to the offices now there has been a let-down in the cleaning of highrise buildings and we have noticed water accumulation on roofs and other places. We have notified the building authorities and asked them to clean up from time to time.” In New Town, too, teams from the New Town Kolkata Development Authority (NKDA) cleaned up vacant plots of bushes and garbage and sprayed larvaecide over a span of two days. Sen, who is also the NKDA chairman, said that in New Town a team of officials meet regularly in the Covid-19 war room where mosquito eradication progress reports are also discussed. “From discussing the best and effective chemicals to using the latest technology that can help ease the work of vector control teams, we are always concerned about dengue. Even during the pandemic we have not let our guard down,” said Sen. According to him, regular spraying of larvaecide and fogging is being done. Guppy fish have also been released in several New Town waterbodies that are close to housing complexes and offices. Mayor of the Bidhannagar Municipal Corporation, Krishna Chakraborty led a rally from her ward to the Nagarayan building near the Karunamoyee crossing. The rally included vector control teams of the corporation which sprayed larvaecide on the roads. The teams also cut down and burnt bushes in a vacant plot of land beside the HSBC building that is used as a parking lot during the fairs held at the Central Park fairground. Chakraborty said that they carry out mosquito eradication programmes throughout the year and had taken out the rally to spread awareness among the residents of the township. “Dengue is under control in Salt Lake. There are no cases reported here as of now. We organised this event both to raise awareness and raise the morale of our field workers and vector control teams who work tirelessly to ensure that the mosquitoes do not breed,” said Chakraborty.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-293
25-09-2020||Calcutta||Covid-19 has triggered hoarding of oxygen cylinders||Soumadeep Mondal got a call in the dead of the night one of these days. It was from the CBI. “I got alarmed until I heard the reason,” says the director of PharmaCo, a medical equipment company. “They needed oxygen. They had been searching all day but every other centre had run out of it.” TriMedicare, another such company, has on its rolls 20 oxygen concentrator machines that they rent out but not a single piece is in stock now. “People are just not returning them,” says director Somnath Maity. “Those who hired the machines back in December decided to keep them once the pandemic started, just in case. Now I have nothing to rent out to new customers. “Politicians to pulmonologists are all enquiring if oxygen can be managed somehow in case they get Covid.” As an increasing number of Covid patients resort to home quarantine, demand for domestic oxygen is shooting through the roof. Some are prescribed the gas, others want to keep a cylinder handy just in case their condition worsens. This is, of course, over and above the regular demand for oxygen by non-Covid patients who may have chronic obstructive pulmonary disease and other respiratory problems. “Oxygen is an essential that I’m asking Covid patients to keep,” says HB Block-based geriatric physician Rajesh Kumar Chel. “If they receive oxygen supply at home, 60 per cent patients can be spared hospitalisation.” Chel recommends an oxygen cylinder as it provides oxygen of up to 90 per cent purity. “But it needs to be refilled from time to time. Also available in the market is the concentrator, that is a plug-and-play machine providing 60 to 70 per cent purity. Demand for both has risen during the pandemic,” says the doctor who is still making house calls and has, in fact, developed antibodies against Covid. On Mahalaya, Rotary Club of Calcutta Labanhrad launched a slew of health services for residents, including oxygen cylinders and concentrators. “We can judge how grave the oxygen scarcity is from the fact that we got an enquiry on the very first day. A 93-year-old Covid patient is to be discharged from hospital and his family wants oxygen at home,” said Anindya Chatterjee, president of the club. One needs to register first with the club by paying Rs 100 to avail of their services. At most places, a 1,500l cylinder  (called B type) can be rented at upwards of Rs 10 a day plus Rs 250 for refill. How long it lasts depends on the dosage prescribed by the doctor. Some agencies charge a security deposit along with rent. Rent for a concentrator could cost upwards of Rs 3,000 a month. Despite the rush, Samar Kar Chaudhury says demand is more reasonable now than what it had become in June-July. “I live in Dakshineshwar and it was very difficult coming to my workplace in Salt Lake’s DL Block. So customers would pick me up so I could refill their cylinders,” says Kar Chaudhury of Prasanthi Enterprises. Mondal of PharmaCo says he has been getting calls from far-flung neighbourhoods. “I’ve ferried cylinders to Howrah on my scooty at midnight; police jeeps have come and picked up cylinders at unearthly hours too,” says the man who keeps his service open 24 hours a day. PharmaCo not only rents out but also sells cylinders. “Pre-corona, I would sell 10 cylinders a month. Now I’m selling 200. Wholesalers cannot sustain such supply and I’ve paid advance for more that I’m waiting for,” says Mondal, adding that the state relies heavily on oxygen supplied from places like Gujarat and Maharashtra. “The crisis had deepened some time ago when Maharashtra had banned the export of oxygen to other states but thankfully the ban was revoked by the central government. The situation is better now,” Mondal adds. The social work wing of Tarun Sangha Club is also falling over backwards renting out oxygen. “Asymptomatic patients are hiring cylinders, those without any trace of Covid are hoarding cylinders... We are requesting customers to return those that they aren’t using but they say they are playing safe. They tell us to take the cylinder back if we find someone in greater need but who are we to judge?” asks Barun Saha of the club. Annapurna Medical Hall in Kestopur adds another reason for the spike in demand. “Customers are anticipating shortage of supply and ordering a refill the moment they start using a cylinder. There is a meter on the cylinder to check just how much is left and these days I’m asking customers to show me that meter over video call so I can be sure of their emergency,” said Ujjwal Kumar Biswas. Some medicine shops are selling — not a cylinder but — a can of oxygen. “We have sold four or five of these in August and are out of stock now but this is a waste of money,” says Jishu Saha of Nandan Medical Stores, next to the sub-divisional hospital. “These cans are used by mountaineers when they run out of breath at high altitudes. It provides one or two puffs of oxygen and cannot correct a Covid patient’s oxygen saturation level. Anyone marketing these as a Covid-care product is cheating customers,” he says. When Greenwood Sonata complex in New Town became the first housing complex in the state to build its own safe house, it had to buy oxygen. “The vendor we contacted asked us to submit a letter on our housing society letterhead, stating our purpose, and later furnish the approval letter from the government for starting the safe house. He said this would serve as proof that we had a genuine medical reason for buying the cylinders,” said Sudipta Mukherjee, president of the apartment owners’ association. Mukherjee added that the vendor had mentioned how oxygen cylinders were being sold in the black. Prasanthi Enterprises at DL Block would rent out cylinders once upon a time. “We stopped — much before the pandemic — as it’s a thankless job. People neither return the cylinders nor settle their debts. Now we only refill empty cylinders and if they want to buy one, source it from our head office,” says Kar Chaudhury. Nandan Medical Stores has stopped renting out cylinders during the pandemic as it is deemed risky to be visiting homes to deliver them. “We are only renting out concentrators, provided customers pick them up from the outlet. We are explaining the usage here itself,” says Jishu, who runs the shop. They have four or five concentrators and using them are chronic respiratory patients. “We are only renting the machines out after seeing prescriptions and besides, Covid patients would require much more than concentrators,” adds Saha. Bidhannagar Medical Hall in CA Market has also stopped renting out oxygen. “Our dealer can’t supply anymore as demand from hospitals has increased manifold,” said a salesman. Maity of TriMedicare says he used to rent out concentrators at Rs 3,000 a month. “Now the market rate has shot up to Rs 5,000 but I cannot cash in as I don’t have a single machine left at hand. Each of my 20 machines is out from before the pandemic and it would be unethical to raise the rental fee now mid-way,” says Maity, for whom it’s a lose-lose situation. “Customers say I shouldn’t complain as long as I’m getting my rent but blocking the machine in one house without using it means depriving others in need.” The requirement for oxygen has gone up by 10 times, but Maity says many people cannot afford the service any more. “Concentrators used to cost about Rs 45,000 before the pandemic but a major player has increased its price to about Rs 75,000. This company has minted their entire annual revenue in a single month and are still exploiting customers as they know none of their other products will sell this year,” he says. “Shame on them!” Mondal says that while cylinders are priced at about Rs 8,000, the shortage has given it a black market value of Rs 15,000. Barun of Tarun Sangha says that while the rent for their cylinders is between Rs 250 and 300 they are being forced to charge Rs 500 now. The reasons are many. “Firstly, the oxygen shortage is making us look for new suppliers based far away so the transportation cost is rising. New customers are calling up from the farthest corners of town so again delivery charges rise.” Finally, they are charging a higher rate from those who can afford it so they can use it to subsidise those who cannot, explains Barun. “Often we reach a home and see people living in abject poverty. We let them have it for free and bear the cost ourselves. Since oxygen is a matter of life and death we don’t charge security deposit either.” Mondal is now worried about the winter, a season when respiratory patients, as it is, suffer a lot. “Ideally I would like to stock up on oxygen before winter but there is neither a guarantee of supply nor certainty of price,” he shakes his head. Maity predicts the day is not far when oxygen devices will be as common as phones. “Every home will have one,” he says. “But the government should cap their prices to protect consumers.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-293
25-09-2020||Calcutta||Ceiling drilled to rob Lenin Sarani shop||Robbers broke into a ground-floor shop in a three-storey building on Lenin Sarani by drilling a hole in the ceiling after getting into a first-floor abandoned room through a window AC opening, police said. The owner has reported Rs 50,000 missing from the cash box in his complaint with Bowbazar police station. The room on the first floor was used in the past by a nationalised bank, the police said. Two more shops in the same row were found with drilled ceilings but the owners haven’t reported anything missing. There have been no arrests till late on Thursday, the police said. The shop in the building at 157B Lenin Sarani that reported the theft sells aluminum products. It was operational on Wednesday night. On Thursday morning when the owner opened the shutter, he found a gaping hole in the ceiling and the sale proceeds missing from the cash box. One of the two other shops in the building with drilled ceilings is a photography studio. The other sells rubber products, the police said. All three shops share a common ceiling. The police said cops had found evidence suggesting the robbers had accessed the first floor of the building by scaling the building’s rear wall and squeezing in through the window AC opening. But the fact that nothing was stolen from the other two shops has made cops suspect that the drilled ceiling in the other two shops was meant to divert the police’s attention. The police said cops were going through footage of CCTV cameras installed along Lenin Sarani. An officer of Bowbazar police station said the upper floors of the building were abandoned and no one accessed them. “This is an unusual theft where a shop on the main road has been targeted,” the officer said. A few years ago, a departmental store on SN Banerjee Road had been robbed by a man who had used an abandoned staircase in the building to reach the first floor and enter the store through a secret backdoor that was accessible only to employees. Investigations are on to find out if anyone with knowledge of the shop’s sale proceeds leaked the information to someone, which led to the robbery, the police said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-293
25-09-2020||Calcutta||Cyber cheats in Rs 82 lakh net||Two men were arrested in Bangalore on Thursday on charges of cheating a businessman in Calcutta of Rs 82 lakh by promising to help him set up a seed and fertiliser company’s distribution network in eastern India, police said. Donous Arnold Patrick, alias Domo Raud, 30, and Bake Adoro, 30, both Nigerian nationals, were arrested by a city police team based on a complaint lodged by the businessman with the cyber crime police station in Salt Lake. The two had opened a fake account on a social networking site with the profile picture of a woman, along with photographs, and used the account to approach the businessman on the networking site, an officer of the Bidhannagar commissionerate said. They had used its messaging service as well to contact the businessman, the officer said. The profile looked like it belonged to a senior official of a company dealing in high-quality seeds and organic fertilizers, the officer said. The two offered the businessman a distribution network in eastern India, he said. “They exchanged phone numbers and were in touch for a few months. During this time, the men managed to persuade the businessman to start a distributorship by citing a very high profit margin,” the officer said. The businessman sent Rs 82 lakh in installments to the bank account numbers they had sent him. Once they got the money they snapped all forms of communication with the businessman, the officer said. “He was even blocked from the account on the social networking site. After several days, the businessman became suspicious when no one from the supposed company met him in the city.” He then lodged the complaint with the cyber crime police station. He gave cops the numbers from which he had received the calls and the account numbers to which he had sent the money, the police said. “We tracked the phone numbers and followed the money trail and zeroed in on the two. We are bringing them to the city from Bangalore on transit remand,” another officer said. “We will seek their custody... they have to be questioned. We are investigating if they had cheated others in a similar manner.” At their houses in Bangalore, cops seized a cloning machine used to clone debit and credit cards and other gadgets. “It seems they are part of a well-organised racket,” the officer said. The men will be produced in court in Salt Lake once they reach the city.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-293
25-09-2020||Calcutta||Durga Puja scaled down to help Amphan-hit||Durga Puja celebration in the city may not be the boisterous extravaganza it usually is as most big puja organisers have had to slash their budgets. One puja committee has taken a conscious decision to cut its budget and against staging a jamboree as it wants to spend the resources to support families in Hingalganj, in North 24-Parganas, who have lost their livelihoods after being struck by Cyclone Amphan in May and are still struggling to stitch their lives together. Samaj Sebi Sangha on Lake View Road in south Calcutta has brought down its budget this year to Rs 15 lakh from Rs 60 lakh it had spent last year and will hand over Rs 15 lakh in three phases to 75 families of Sardar Para village in Madhabkati block, Hingalganj, 150km from Calcutta, before the Puja. The 75-year-old Samaj Sebi Sangha puja, which had created a separate entrance to its pandal for people with autism last year, has picked up 75 families from the Amphan-struck village in its platinum jubilee year. “Since we are known as Ballygunge Samaj Sebi Sangha, we are describing our outreach as a bridge spanning from Ballygunge to Hingalganj. We are spending one fourth of what was our budget last year to support these families,” said Arijit Maitra, the general secretary of the puja committee. How did a club based in Calcutta get to know of the plight of these families and what was the trigger behind the initiative? A member of the committee said that as stories of large-scale devastation started emerging from areas like Hingalganj, close to the Sunderbans, they felt the urge to help those whose misery had worsened after Amphan lashed large parts of south Bengal on May 20. He said they got to know about the distress through an NGO, Sarani, which has been working in the Hingalganj area since Cyclone Aila had caused devastation in 2009. “We had gone to the area in June to provide some relief. While we were visiting the area, we realised they needed some long-term help, which would enable them to stitch their lives together. This we could do by cutting our puja budget,” he said. Another member said Sarani, the NGO, had surveyed storm-hit people to decide who required how much help. Some of the affected families in the Madhabkati block are fishermen, others peasants. They have lost their livelihoods as the cyclone damaged their fishing boats and breached embankments, leading to saline water from the sea gushing into cultivable land. The support from government agencies did not reach adequately to these families even months after the calamity, said Antara Ghosh Sharma, the secretary of Sarani. “As the club wanted to do more in the platinum jubilee year of their puja and wanted to know what could be done, we advised them to help these families who are in extreme distress. I believe there is a case for supporting as many as families as possible and other pujas should emulate Samaj Sebi Sangha,’’ said Antara. The club will pay each affected family Rs 20,000. On Chaturthi, the 75 families will be invited to inaugurate the puja and each will be handed a medical insurance policy of Rs 50,000. “The club will keep paying the annual premium of Rs 2,000 for the policy of each family,” said Maitra. “Besides, the year-long celebration in the platinum jubilee year will remain focused on helping the families in as many ways as possible. We will look after their food, shelter, clothing and educational needs,” said Maitra Samaj Sebi Sangha was founded in 1946 to help families who had suffered in the Calcutta riots. On its platinum jubilee, the clb wants to live up to that cherished legacy, said a veteran member.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-294
25-09-2020||Calcutta||Covid: Mamata announces guidelines for Durga Puja||Chief minister Mamata Banerjee on Thursday laid out the plan for Durga Puja 2020, issuing guidelines from inauguration to immersion that the organisers and administration are expected to follow. A set of directives has been issued keeping the spread of Covid-19 in mind. Based on Mamata’s announcements at Netaji Indoor Stadium on Thursday, here’s what Puja 2020 could be like “Khola-mela mandap korun. (Make the pandal open and spacious). Cover the space just above the idol but keep the sides open. Experts are advising this,” Mamata said. “If the ceiling is blocked, keep the sides open. If the sides are blocked, keep the roof open. Please see that there is enough space for physical distancing.” Entry and exit should be different. Puja committees have been asked to keep the inauguration low-key. Those who would not be able to organise an inaugural programme can consider the online option. Pandal-hopping at night will be allowed between Tritiya and Ekadashi, the chief minister announced, asking the police to make necessary arrangements. Overcrowding during anjali or sindoor khela will not be allowed this year. Anjali timings should be staggered and priests should use a microphone to say the mantra so that people do not have to huddle in a narrow space and the sound reaches those standing even far away. Those who will offer anjali may carry their own flowers. Staggered timings and separate places have been suggested for sindoor khela to avoid crowding. The chief minister said most of the cultural programmes are held outside pandals or on the roadside to attract crowds. Such gatherings may lead to a spurt in infections. “This year we are requesting you to avoid cultural programmes as too much mixing would cause a spike in the number of Covid cases,” Mamata said. The chief minister urged the puja organisers to avoid big processions during immersion. Fewer people should be involved in the process, she said. The officers in charge of the police stations will have to coordinate and fix dates for immersions in a way that the ghats do not get crowded. The single-window system for organisers to apply for permission will start functioning on October 2. The government has launched a web portal called Aasaan, which will serve as the single window for applying for permission. The offline option is open, too. The chief minister urged the organisers to deploy more volunteers during the puja and to mark circles in the pandals to ensure visitors maintain a safe distance among themselves. She cited the example of how she drew circles in markets at the start of the Covid pandemic in Calcutta. Every volunteer has to be given a mask and sanitiser and, if possible, a face shield. The chief minister asked organisers to provide hand sanitisers to visitors at least half a kilometre before the pandal. She also asked them and the police to keep excess masks for the poor, who would not be able to afford one. “If someone comes with-out a mask, give the person a mask if you have one or request him or her to get a mask. Or at least ask them to cover their face with cloth,” she said. Wearing a mask and disinfecting hands with sanitiser before entering a pandal is a must. The puja committees have been told not to allow more than two outside vehicles for judges at a time. “Please opt for virtual screening. This year Biswa Bangla will do a virtual tour of pandals to select its winners. Those who will give away prizes should limit their visiting time between 10am and 3pm. Please avoid the evening rush,” she added. Crowds have to be avoided at any cost, the chief minister stressed. “Start using social media and conventional media to spread awareness about physical distancing,” was the chief minister’s message to the organiser and the police. All clubs should have a public announcement system for timely announcements.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-294
25-09-2020||Calcutta||Scientist Sekhar Basu is no more||Former Atomic Energy Commission chairman Sekhar Basu, who had tested positive for Covid-19, died at a private hospital in Calcutta early on Thursday. He was 68. The nuclear physicist, who was awarded Padma Shri in 2014, is survived by his wife and son. Originally a mechanical engineer, Basu is revered for his contributions to the country’s atomic energy programme. He pioneered the highly complex reactor for India's first nuclear-powered submarine INS Arihant. He was also secretary to the government of India’s department of atomic energy. Before that he was director of Bhabha Atomic Research Centre (BARC). He played a major role in establishing India as a lead country in various domains of nuclear sciences and engineering. Recently, as Homi Bhaba Chair Professor, Basu was with Variable Energy Cyclotron Centre (VECC), Calcutta, where he set up the medical cyclotron facility at VECC’s Chakgaria campus. His continued guidance to Team VECC ensured continuous supply of isotopes to hospitals through the lockdown, said some of those associated with the project. Chief minister Mamata Banerjee tweeted: “Grieved to hear about the passing away of veteran nuclear scientist and former Atomic Energy Commission chairman Sekhar Basu. My condolences to his family and colleagues.” Prime Minister Narendra Modi tweeted: “I join the atomic energy fraternity in grieving the passing away of Dr. Sekhar Basu, a renowned nuclear scientist who played a key role in establishing India as a lead country in nuclear science and engineering. Our thoughts and prayers are with his family and friends…” President Ram Nath Kovind described Basu’s death as “a huge loss to the nation”. Born on September 20, 1952, at Muzaffarpur in Bihar, Basu went to Ballygunge Government School and graduated in mechanical engineering from VJTI, Bombay University, in 1974. He was responsible for the design, construction and operation of nuclear recycle plants at Tarapur in Maharashtra and Kalpakkam in Tamil Nadu.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-294
25-09-2020||Calcutta||Run health services during Durga Puja: Mamata Banerjee||Chief minister Mamata Banerjee said the impact of Covid-19 made her sad, which was why she could not be cheerful during the coordination meeting with Durga Puja organisers on Thursday. Mamata asked the organisers to adopt a host of safety measures and also reminded senior government officials to ensure that the health services ran well during the festival, when Covid cases could spike because of people stepping out in large numbers. Mamata asked the health department to deploy extra volunteers during the Puja and also reminded them that providing treatment to anyone taking ill was the government’s responsibility. She said she was not smiling like she did in previous years’ meetings because the pandemic’s impact had made her sad. “The situation this year is different from previous years. This year I am very sad. Usually I talk to you with a smile,” she said. “Many doctors, health workers, municipal workers, journalist friends, police personnel have lost their lives in the pandemic. Many known friends are no more. I am reminded of them very often and it reates an element of sadness even amidst happiness.” She stressed the need to ensure that the health services ran properly during Puja. “The Covid-19 helpline numbers should work properly during Puja. If required we have to do some extra arrangements. Suppose a hospital is full, we still have to give treatment to the (sick) person. Health department has to increase the number of volunteers. People will step out during Puja and there may be a spike.” She then turned towards the chief secretary and home secretary and asked them to see that the arrangements were in place. Her stress on running health services well during the festival is important because usually doctors and others associated with health care go on leave during the period. Mamata then announced a host of measures that should be adopted during the Puja and during immersion. “I had created circles for people to stand in markets when the pandemic started. Make similar circles or at least draw lines at your pandals so that people wait in a queue,” she said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-294
25-09-2020||Calcutta||Relief for hawkers, civic volunteers, Asha team||Chief minister Mamata Banerjee on Thursday announced a one-time financial assistance for hawkers ahead of the festive season and also a salary hike for civic volunteers and Asha workers. She also announced that Anganwadi workers would now get pension. “Hawkers are very poor. Their shops have been shut for many days. Some are failing to arrange even one square meal a day. We will not be able to extend any big help, but we have got a list of 81,000 hawkers,” the chief minister said while speaking at the Puja coordination meeting in Netaji Indoor Stadium. Mamata then turned towards her government’s finance secretary. “The finance secretary will be angry at me, but I am telling him that we will give hawkers Rs 2,000 each during the month of Puja so that they can at least buy new clothes for their children,” she said. The Covid-induced lockdown has left many hawkers in severe financial distress. The hawkers have since been allowed to reopen their stalls but business has not yet picked up. The hawkers’ community welcomed the chief minister’s decision, but said the actual number of hawkers in the city was far more than 81,000. “The chief minister’s announcement will really help a lot of hawkers. Sales are still nearly 70 per cent less than what it was a month before Puja last year. We do not think sales will improve significantly till the suburban train services resume,” said Debraj Ghosh, a hawker union leader in Gariahat. He said the count of 81,000 was based on a survey conducted by police among hawkers on pavements after the phased unlock started. Mohammad Nasim Akhtar, a hawker at the Oberoi Grand Arcade who sells shirts, said the business had been severely hit. “I sold between 60 and 70 shirts a day ahead of Puja last year. This year I am selling six, eight or maximum 10 shirts a day. Our income has dipped badly,” he said. Fears about not being able to maintain physical distance is driving buyers to stay away from buying from the hawkers. The chief minister also announced salary hikes and retirement benefits for Asha and Anganwadi workers. Both categories of workers play an instrumental role in delivering public health services to the people. “Asha (Accredited Social Health Activist) workers have visited nearly 36 crore houses. They have conducted the comorbidity survey, risking their lives. I am increasing the salary of Asha workers by Rs 1,000 from October 1,” Mamata said. “The Anganwadi workers do a lot of work, too. They did not get any retirement benefit. After retirement, they will get Rs 3 lakh,” she went on to announce. Civic volunteers, who assist cops in discharging a number of duties such as traffic management, have also been given a salary hike. “Civic volunteers used to get Rs 3,000 when they were first inducted. I increased their salary to Rs 8,000. This time I am increasing their salary by Rs 1,000. This is for green police, civic volunteers and that category of people,” Mamata said. She added that her government had already provided them with retirement benefits. “We are giving Rs 3 lakh pension benefit to civic volunteers,” she said. Each of the announcements drew loud applause from Puja organisers who attended the meeting. Mamata said at the meeting that 2,509 Durga pujas were held in Calcutta, more specifically the area looked after by Calcutta police.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-294
25-09-2020||Calcutta||Dark days ahead for home help who travels by local train||Thousands of women working as help in city homes have been jobless for the last six months after the local train services were paused because of the Covid-19 pandemic. The trains may soon be back, but the jobs may not. The scare of Covid-19 infection and the chances of getting exposed to infected persons on local trains have prompted many Calcuttans to decide against resuming the services of help whose only mode of commute is the local train. Chhaya Mandal, 45, a single mother in Diamond Harbour’s Madhabpur who had been commuting almost 100km a day to work at three homes in Gariahat and Ballygunge, has been asked not to return even after the train service resumes. Munni, 50, who works in an apartment in Ballygunge, has stopped returning home to save her job. She is staying at her employer’s home and has been visiting her family in Kankinara once or twice a month only when she and her friends, who have adopted the same model, save enough to share the fare of a taxi. There are thousands of women like Chhaya and Munni whose lives changed forever after the train service was suspended. They expect little change in their lives even after the service resumes. A large number of women from poverty- stricken pockets of the Sunderbans, Kultali, Lakshmikantapur, Diamond Harbour and Baruipur used to earn their living by working as domestic help in the city. Only those who worked in houses close to their own home have been able to retain their jobs. “A family in whose home I had worked for 20 years has sacked me with the assurance that they will pay my salary till the day I worked. But I have not been able to meet them till now. Another family has snapped all ties and are not even receiving my calls,” Chhaya narrated her plight from her Madhabpur home. Abandoned by her husband at a young age, Chhaya has no other source of income and has been surviving on boiled rice and wild plants. Many of her neighbours, who used to travel together by local train to reach their workplace in the city and have the financial support of their families, have shifted to selling vegetables. Munni, too, is apprehensive about how long she would be able to stay away from her family like this and sustain her job. “I have two sons, daughters-in-law and grandchildren at home. Earlier, I would start my day at 4am, board a train for Ballygunge and return home by 7pm. Everything changed after the trains stopped. Now, I cannot see my family for months,” Munni said. Yet, she is not complaining and said she was lucky to have been retained by her employers. Namita Khatoon, 42, and her likes — whose family members are attached to emergency services — are the luckiest of the lot. Namita, who used to travel by local train from Baruipur to Jadavpur, now commutes with her brother-in-law on his bicycle. The brother-in-law works as a guard at a housing complex on Prince Anwar Shah Road. Several Calcuttans Metro spoke to expressed their helplessness over not being able to resume the services of their old help. “I never thought we would ever have to say ‘No’ to our trusted maid, who had been looking after my family for the last 15 years,” said Rima Mukherjee, a resident of Anandapur, off EM Bypass. “We used to transfer her monthly salary to her son’s account during the lockdown. But honestly it would not be possible to pay her without work forever. So we have decided to make a one-time payment to her annually to take care of a part of her expenses.” Pritha Mitra, who stays in Bansdroni and had hired the services of an elderly woman for her parents who live in an apartment in Garia, said she was too scared to expose her parents to someone who would travel by train. “I had no other option but to terminate her. We are still looking for someone who would not commute in public transport,” Mitra said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-294
