26-09-2020||Calcutta||9 in IPL betting net; 1 held in high-rise||Police arrested a South City resident on Thursday night in connection with an IPL betting syndicate after grilling him for 90 minutes in his 13th floor flat. The arrest was made when the match between Kings XI and Royal Challengers was on in Dubai. He was busy on the phone fixing bets in his flat, the police said. He was part of a team of nine men. The eight others were arrested from across the city, including south and central Calcutta, and Salt Lake on Thursday night. A team of eight officers of the detective department’s anti-rowdy squad entered the South City residential complex around 8.40pm. Two of them stayed at the security desk of Tower I while six went up to his flat on the 13th floor. A little later, the two cops joined the team when the man was found inside the flat, the police said. He has identified himself as a businessman. He left South City along with the police team after 90 minutes. Three laptops, a television set, three mobile phones and some money were seized from the flat, the police said. His wife and child were at home when he was arrested. Multiple raids were carried out across the city, including in pockets of Park Street, and India Exchange Place, and Salt Lake based on a tip-off and the eight were arrested, the police said. All the nine have been charged with cheating and criminal conspiracy. They have been booked under the West Bengal gambling and prize competition act, too. Apart from the seizures in South City, cops have seized Rs 1.5 lakh, 14 mobile phones, 11 laptops, two television sets, and a car in the raids. These days most betting happens on online apps and sites and can be tracked only if there is specific information, an officer said. “Any form of cricket betting is illegal in India. These men who fixed bets are punters. Usually, betting happens within a closed circle where people bet on the future possibilities in an ongoing match,” the officer said. A city court on Friday sent the nine to police custody, the police said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-291
26-09-2020||Calcutta||Employee held for stealing LPG agency’s money||An employee of a company that supplies cooking gas, who had reported that he lost the money he had been asked to deposit in an office, has been found to have allegedly engaged a neighbour to throw the bag in a garbage vat after clearing its contents. A CCTV footage allegedly showing the neighbour disposing of the bag in the vat led the cops to the employee. The incident happened in New Alipore on Wednesday when Sanjib Thakur, an employee of a cooking gas supply company that has an office in Joka, was entrusted with depositing Rs 2 lakh in the firm’s New Alipore office. Around two hours after he was handed the money, Thakur returned to the Joka office and said the bag had fallen off his motorcycle. The company’s owner, Olivia Roy, had launched a search for the bag and it was found in a garbage vat of the Calcutta Municipal Corporation between Mahabirtala and Joka. Roy lodged a general diary with New Alipore police station on Thursday morning. “The owner was convinced that the employee had genuinely lost the money. But we decided to carry out a probe. Luckily, we found that the garbage vat where the empty bag was found was directly under a CCTV camera,” said an officer of New Alipore police station. The CCTV footage showed a man throwing the bag into the vat. “We took a still from the footage and went to the home of the employee. We showed the image to people in the neighbourhood, who said the man was a resident of the area and his name was Ramjan Sheikh,” the officer said. Sheikh’s house was searched and the money was allegedly found there. “Sheikh admitted that Thakur had asked him to empty the bag and throw it into the garbage vat,” the officer said. Thakur and Sheikh have been arrested on charges of cheating, criminal breach of trust and criminal conspiracy. Senior officers said such incidents of employees breaching the trust of employers and stealing the former’s money when asked to submit it in banks or other offices were becoming very common.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-291
26-09-2020||Calcutta||Talks on restarting classes||Education minister Partha Chatterjee will hold a videoconference with the vice-chancellors on Sunday to decide how classes can be started from November 1 while following the UGC academic calendar, a higher education department official said on Friday. Minister Chatterjee did not take calls from The Telegraph on Friday evening. The department is unsure of starting classes from November 1 in colleges and universities because of the pandemic but it is exploring the alternative models some institutes are following to hold classes, the higher education department official said. Endorsing the UGC’s academic calendar, the education ministry had on September 22 announced it had taken into account the pandemic and that first-year undergraduate and postgraduate classes could start from November 1. Now that the date has been announced, the department has to explore ways to start classes and it is looking into the models being followed by Jadavpur University and IIEST, Shibpur, the official said. “All these institutes are holding regular classes for students who are in the intermediate semesters without requiring them to visit the campus because of the pandemic. We will consider their models and take the opinion of the vice-chancellors to find out how much of that can be applied,” he said. Among the state universities, Jadavpur has been the first to start classes through the distance digital mode that involves holding online classes but taking into account a student’s accessibility to devices and Net connectivity. At JU, if students are sure of attending live online classes, they can do that. But teachers have to ensure if anyone misses out on live online classes because of connectivity problems, he/she isn’t left out, a university official said. “We are uploading recorded lectures on a digital platform the university has subscribed to and sharing the link with students,” a JU teacher said. Additionally, study materials are being uploaded on a central repository created on the digital platform. Once the content is uploaded, the addresses of the files — in Word or PDF format, audio notes or video recordings — are shared with students through email or over WhatsApp. A student can interact with teachers over WhatsApp or through email to clear doubts, if any. Lectures and study materials are uploaded on YouTube, too, and students given the links, the JU official said. The university is in the process of buying smartphones and data packs for students facing Net connectivity problems. “Since JU has been holding classes for close to a month, the model can be considered,” the higher education department official said. “Let the education department consult us. We will have an idea. But the model that is applicable at a unitary university like JU may not be easily implemented at CU, which has so many colleges affiliated to it,” a vice-chancellor said. An official of the Indian Institute of Engineering Science and Technology (IIEST) said the institute had created a central repository to supplement the online teaching-learning process in the autumn semester that started from August 24. The repository has a section where course materials, including lecture notes, resources and assignments, are uploaded by members of the faculty. Students in remote areas who are unable to attend online classes can download study materials when they have proper Net connectivity and go through them whenever they feel like, an IIEST official said. IIEST director Parthasarathi Chakrabarti had told The Telegraph earlier that the institute would help students without access to laptops or computers.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-292
26-09-2020||Calcutta||Salt Lake civic body blaze||A fire broke out on the third floor of Poura Bhavan, the headquarters of the Bidhannagar Municipal Corporation in Salt Lake’s FD Block, on Friday evening. A meeting of outgoing councillors was on when guards spotted smoke billowing out of the wing where assistant engineers of the civic body have their offices. They alerted the fire brigade before rushing upstairs to tell the councillors that a fire had broken out. Some guards and civic employees started evacuating the building. Five fire engines from Sector V fire station reached the spot and doused the flames in 30 minutes, a fire officer said. A preliminary investigation showed the fire might have started in an AC unit on the floor. A couple of AC units have been damaged, the fire officer said. Krishna Chakraborty, the Bidhannagar mayor, said some AC units and a few curtains had been gutted. “We don’t know if any documents have been damaged.” The civic body is worried that documents related to several departments that were on the floor might have been damaged in the fire or water, another civic official said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-292
26-09-2020||Calcutta||CAG report highlights lapses in museum modernisation||The Indian Museum executed a Rs 100-crore “modernisation” programme to celebrate its bicentennial year in 2014 without any conservation plan or detailed project report and proper planning, says a Comptroller and Auditor General (CAG) report for the year ended March 2018. Major work on providing a modern storage system, fire fighting, fire detection and prevention and ventilation and air conditioning, standard provisions for museums all over the world, was not taken up at all though money was sanctioned, the report says. According to the report, proper conservation processes were also not followed during renovation, resulting in damage to priceless artefacts like the Lion Capital, more than 2,000 years old, at the entrance to the museum. The Gandhar Stupa, too, was damaged by the executing agency, the National Building Construction Company (NBCC) Limited, a public sector undertaking, says the CAG. The modernisation work was funded by the museum, which sanctioned Rs 66 lakh for repair of the external façade of the Anthropological Society of India building and the office Union ministry of culture, both of which are on the museum premises. The audit of the modernisation project was taken up in April 2018. When records relating to the modernisation project were requisitioned by the CAG team, the museum submitted a copy of the complaint filed by its security officer on July 24, 2018, with the New Market police station  reporting loss of the documents. When the present Indian Museum director Arijit Dutta Choudhury was asked about this, he told Metro: “Yes this happens on and off at the museum. Files disappear and reappear again.” This newspaper had in March 2019 reported how chunks were coming off the walls, corners were breaking off, water was dripping from the roof and lime plaster was coming off just four years after work was completed. Work on the lift and gravity fall system is yet to be awarded, the report says. When asked about this, the director said: “Work is presently on to replace the lifts and an annual maintenance contract has been drawn up with the CPWD for a further sum of money that will be allocated from the general maintenance fund given annually to the museum by the ministry.” For modernisation of the museum, Rs 99.76 crore was estimated. Work was executed and completed at a cost of Rs 95.87 crore. Major part of the work including restoration and modernisation of reserve store, installation of fire fighting, fire detection and prevention system, and heating, ventilation and air-conditioning system, estimated at Rs 25.73 crore, was not awarded at all. The audit team noted that the storage and upkeep of reserve artefacts was completely ignored. The reserve accounts for almost 94 per cent of the museum’s collection and consists of inorganic objects susceptible to heat and humidity. They are now under excessive temperature and humidity variance, crumbling walls and loose hanging electrical wires. On the lapse in the modernisation programme, the director said: “For storage, we need an entire new building. Right now most of the objects are stored at various places, some othe top floor, some sections have their own storage. We need to have one centralised storage with modern facilities and we are working on this proposal.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-292
26-09-2020||Calcutta||Clothes on fire, lady chokes on fume||An 83-year-old woman died apparently after inhaling carbon monoxide after her clothes caught fire from a diya she had lit while offering her prayers at her New Alipore home on Friday morning, police said. Her son was in another room when the fire broke out. Gouri Dasgupta, a resident of Block P in New Alipore, was taken to SSKM Hospital, where she was declared dead. Police said the incident happened around 5.35am. Dutta had been living with her son since he returned home from abroad because of the pandemic, an officer said. “She was wearing a nightgown that got burnt. The apparent cause of death is inhalation of carbon monoxide,” an officer said. “We are investigating the circumstances leading to the death. Till now we have not found anything that suggests foul play,” said an officer||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-292
26-09-2020||Calcutta||Lorry on reverse kills 69-year-old||A man returning home to Surya Sen Street from the market died after a reversing lorry hit him inside College Square on Friday morning, police said. Surya Sen Street runs along the southern boundary of College Square. Subir Modak, 69, was declared dead at Calcutta Medical College and Hospital. The lorry works for the Calcutta Municipal Corporation. The pathway inside the park is not a motorable road, a police officer said. The accident took place near the eastern gate of College Square opposite the Mahabodhi Society building and Paramount store, which leads to Bankim Chatterjee Street. “The man was leaving the park through the gate and the lorry was reversing when it hit him,” the officer said. An official of the CMC, the custodian of College Square, said Modak was a member of the committee that organises Durga Puja inside College Square. “It is an unfortunate accident,” the official said. The CMC had hired the lorry for work in Borough V that covers College Square. The borough office is right across Surya Sen Street from the boundary wall of College Square. The truck had brought cow dung for a nursery inside College Square and was entering the park in reverse to unload it. There was no helper with the driver. “Had there been a helper, he would have noticed Modak behind the lorry and alerted him and the driver,” the CMC official said. The driver fled after the accident, the police said. The matter is with Amherst Street police station. The driver has been booked under sections 279 (rash driving or riding on a public way) and 304A (causing death by negligence) of the IPC, the police said. The charges carry a maximum punishment of up to two years in jail.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-292
26-09-2020||Calcutta||Tough therapy times for kids with disability||The pandemic has posed intervention and assessment challenges for children with disabilities, professionals who work with them have said. It is difficult to keep children, aged between three and eight, engaged in an hour-long online session and an interaction with a therapist — when done from home — is not free of interruptions, according to psychologists. The pandemic has held back parents and unless children have a major meltdown, parents are reluctant to approach and seek help, at least two professionals who work with children have said. For young and new parents, it is often the schoolteacher who identifies such issues among children while observing them in a group and alerts parents who might be unaware of the signs. “In terms of intervention, there has to be play, music and art therapy, which does not work in an online session. Many children who were attending schools or vocational classes for speech or behaviour therapy are now unable to do so and it has affected them,” psychiatrist Sanjay Garg said. Some of his patients who were “stable” are now showing signs of behavioural anxiety after being stuck at home during the pandemic. Six months into the pandemic, mental health professionals are facing certain limitations in online sessions. “Children can have delays in several developmental aspects. This entails that a multidisciplinary team be set up for the therapy and training, which is hard to coordinate remotely,” clinical psychologist Parmeet Soni said. “There are many interventions that parents will need to employ; conventionally, these interventions will be taught using hands-on demonstrations, something that is not feasible in online sessions.” Some children experience “restlessness” and need to be engaged in physical activities, Soni said. “They cannot engage in development needs of playing and socialising with other children because of the pandemic.” Some mental health professionals said they were “grappling” with ways to reach out to children. “In our interaction and remedial intervention, the physical presence of the therapist is important because the relationship between the child and the professional is built on a rapport but that is a huge challenge now,” psychotherapist Farishta Dastur Mukerji said. Also, in a clinic therapists can make changes and closely monitor and engage with a child without letting him/her to venture out of the room. “The environment is not in our control anymore,” Dastur Mukerji said. For young and new parents the situation is more challenging because they are not sure whether they should seek consultation if there is delay in speech or any other milestone, according to mental health professionals. “The pandemic is holding back parents from seeking help and some of them are not aware that the delay is causing harm,”  Indrani Basu, the founder of Autism Society West Bengal, said. Some of the interventions are dependent on parental interviews and recordings of children sent by parents but professionals said it was not enough. “In some cases, a visit to the clinic is important and some assessments cannot happen online.... In children, the faster the intervention, the better the prognosis,” Dastur Mukerji said. Doctors are forced to start “presumptive treatment”, Garg said. In normal circumstances, a therapist would have needed a few sessions with the child before starting treatment but in some homes the situation has become unmanageable with parents having professional commitments and the child “getting agitated”. It is important to equip parents to handle the situation at home though it is not easy, given the fact they have to juggle working from home and at home. The Autism Society West Bengal will conduct an online training workshop for parents to manage early learners with autism. “If the child’s condition has been recognised there has to be some kind of training on communication and toilet training.... Also, since parents are at home some children have become dependent on them and they need to be made independent,” Basu said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-292
26-09-2020||Calcutta||Pandemic lesson of self-reliance for marginalised women||The pandemic has made women from marginalised sections of the society realise the importance of self-reliance and independence, feel many organisations working with them. There is a greater demand for vocational courses and underprivileged women have understood the need to upskill themselves to be more employable in these dire times, according to those working with underprivileged women. For many such families, the men have been out of work during the pandemic and the responsibility of feeding the children and others is on the women. The pandemic has created a sense of “urgency and desperation” among the women and their husbands, too, are creating “far less obstructions” now, according to members of some NGOs that have been running vocational courses such as tailoring, handicraft, cooking, and bakery long before the coronavirus struck. Some NGOs have been flooded with requests for training and they had to screen candidates because it was not possible to accommodate everyone. For example, Ek Tara, a trust that works with women and children in the Tiljala-Topsia area, received 90 applications for 24 seats in the tailoring course. The Kolkata Mary Ward Social Centre (KMWSC), a wing of the Loreto Congregation in South Asia, had received requests from women to reopen the vocational units in the initial days of the lockdown. “Before the pandemic we had to persuade women to acquire some skills… they would usually cite financial and time constraints and not join the courses,” Manjusmita Bagchi, the associate director at Ek Tara, said. “In fact, some would commit to join but not turn up. Now, they have realised the importance of self-reliance.” For the sake of accountability, the women have to pay 10 per cent of the course fees in instalments, which works out to roughly Rs 400. The trust runs a community kitchen to provide subsidised meals to workers in manufacturing units in the area. And the trust trains and employs women for this. “The training for tailoring is for two days a week… on other days they need to have exposure to the machines to set their hands. It will create an opportunity for them to work in the leather manufacturing units in the locality,” Anupriya Bhattacharya, the head of the community centre at Ek Tara, said. The KMWSC runs a beautician’s course apart from tailoring, bakery and manufacturing sanitary pads. “We train them and sell the products manufactured by them and give them the money. The sense of urgency and responsibility is more among these women now. They say if they do not earn, their children will go hungry,” Sister Monica Suchiang, the director of KMWSC, said. “Because of the number of requests we are trying to complete the training by holding more classes. This will enable us to start fresh batches and train more women,” Sister Suchiang said. In Calcutta, the KMWSC currently trains 150 women in batches of six for 90 minutes from 9am to 4pm. “Sanitisation is expensive but that cannot stop us from helping these women to get upskilled,” Sister Suchiang said. The pandemic has made the men in these households more “cooperative” now. They allow the women to go out for work, which means fewer dropouts. “The women are more regular now… there is less obstruction from their husbands. The need is more now,” Arjun Dutta, the president of NGO, Calcutta Social Project, said. Saba Parveen, in her 30s, with two boys, aged 9 and 12, has been working at the kitchen of Ek Tara after completing her training. She received her first salary of Rs 6,000 on Thursday. When the pandemic struck, her husband lost his job at a bag manufacturing unit. She overcame her inhibitions and her husband did away with his high-handed attitude and allowed her to step out. “There is no money at home… we know the kind of hardship we are going through to manage a meal. Earlier, my husband would not approve of me stepping out to work and I, too, would be happy at home taking care of the children… now, the situation is different,” she said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-292
26-09-2020||Calcutta||95-year-old puja to keep three sides open||A north Calcutta Durga Puja that bills itself as the oldest sarbojanin (community) celebration of the goddess in Bengal is going back to the past in the year of the pandemic. The Simla Byayam Samity Puja, in its 95th year, is going for a pandal with a covered roof and three open sides. The design is in keeping with chief minister Mamata Banerjee’s advice in the backdrop of the Covid-19 pandemic. The design is also similar to what pandals of the puja looked like till as late as the 1970s, said old timers of the area, off Central Avenue. “Traditionalism is our essence. With time, some grandeur has crept in. But open and spacious pandal is like revisiting the past, when the idols would be under a covered roof and the rest of the area would be open,” said Baikunthanath Seal, 77, a former secretary of the puja committee. The puja was started in 1926 by Atindra Nath Basu with the support of Mahendranath Dutta, Swami Vivekananda’s brother. “For years, the Samity used to be the cradle of freedom fighters initiated by the chant of revolution (biplob-er mantre dikshito),” said Seal. Basu, a freedom fighter himself, is said to have come up with the term sarbojanin because he felt the need for “a puja for all”. Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose was the president of the puja in 1939. Seal has heard stories from his father about Bose “relishing on the bhog” along with other members. The puja has also shattered a glass ceiling this year. For the first time in 95 years, the committee will have a woman joint secretary. “Legendary women freedom fighters, led by Kalpana Dutta, have been part of the Samity and the puja. So, in a way, this is also a throwback to the past,” said Sohini Roy, one of the joint secretaries this year. The puja, while harping on the past, will also embrace technology for crowd control and social distancing. A “giant LED screen” will be set up outside the pandal. The pandal stands on a part of a ground spanning 30,000sqft. Every day’s puja will be telecast on the screen. Every year, the puja sees a huge gathering during anjali and sandhya-arati. “We will not be able to allow visitors to stand and watch the puja in the pandal. If people want, they can watch the proceedings on the scre-en. The space outside can accommodate 100 people at a time without violating social distancing norms,” said Roy. The height of the goddess, usually around 17ft, has been reduced to around 12ft this year. The idol is being prepared at the puja venue, like past years. The organisers have contributed to the Chief Minister’s Relief Fund for Covid-19 and Amphan relief. “We have also provided help to the poor in the neighbourhood,” said Roy. The economic crisis spawned by the pandemic has led to smaller contributions from corporate sponsors this year, said organisers.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-292
26-09-2020||Calcutta||Tweak in plans to abide by CM advisory||Additional gates, extra windows, provisions for visitors to watch idols without entering the pandal — puja committees across Calcutta remained busy throughout Friday trying to tweak their pandal designs to abide by chief minister Mamata Banerjee’s advisory. The chief minister wants the pandals to be spacious and designed in a way that they allow free flow of air, which are among the basic precautions against Covid-19. While some puja committees started making necessary additions or exclusions, several others who have been waiting for a clear set of directives from the government began firming up their plans for the celebrations. “Only the portion of the pandal above the idols will remain covered. The rest of the pandal will remain open for air circulation. Even the road that leads to the ground where the pandal will come up will not be covered,” said Somnath Das of Santoshpur Lake Pally Durga Puja Committee. “There will be small houses inside the arena as part of our theme. But visitors won’t be allowed to enter them. We have been waiting for the directives. Now we will start our construction.” Chief minister Mamata Banerjee had advised puja organisers on Thursday to keep the sides of the pandals open if the ceiling was blocked to allow proper air circulation. “Khola-mela mandap korun (Keep the pandal airy and open)” she had said while laying down guidelines for constructing pandals this year. Behala Notun Dal had decided to keep a buffer space of around 20 feet between visitors and the idols despite the restrictions posed by their theme. Now even that doesn’t seem enough. The organisers decided on Friday to keep the area around this buffer space open to allow adequate air circulation. “We will set up more open windows as part of our theme. We will also erect two additional exits of 12ftX12ft each to ensure faster dispersal of visitors,” said Sandipan Banerjee of the puja committee. Several committees had a word with their artists about how to find ways to adhere to the norms laid down by the chief minister on Thursday for pandals. Less than a month left for the Puja, it isn’t an easy task. But all organisers said there was no alternative but to stick to the new set of guidelines. “The mandap for the idols is being done in such a way that if visitors don’t want to step inside and see the intricate designs, they would be able to see the idols from a distance and move on,” said Biswanath De, the artist working for Kalighat Milan Sangha. “There will be three large exit gates to avoid crowding at any point of time. We will have to work around the theme for openness and air circulation.” Opening up will also mean embracing the challenge that a smart shower may pose on the five Puja days and even before that. Several puja organisers said they could only hope that by the end-October (Puja begins on October 22) the monsoon clouds would bid adieu to the city. Else, they could do little to provide a canopy for shelter. “This year visitors would have to come prepared. We have noticed that real pandal-hoppers are not deterred by such showers,” said an org-aniser of a Sovabazar puja committee.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-292
26-09-2020||Calcutta||Designer’s friends, kin seek probe||Some relatives and friends of late fashion designer Sharbari Datta went to Lalbazar on Friday and said police should probe the immediate circumstances before her death. The police told them they should give in writing if they had a specific complaint. Datta’s 87-year-old brother-in-law Jyoti Datta and his wife Minakshi; Datta’s niece Rajlakshmi Mohan; Ananya Chakraborti, chairperson, West Bengal Child Rights Commission; Srabanti Bandyopadhyay, member of the commission; filmmaker Sudeshna Roy; and Sanjukta Nath, who was a friend of the designer, met Santosh Pandey, joint commissioner (traffic), at Lalbazar. Pandey now holds the additional charge of joint commissioner (crime). The delegation wants a “fair probe” and Datta’s immediate family to be questioned about the circumstances in which she was found dead. On the night of September 17, Datta was found dead in a washroom on the ground floor of her home she shared with her son and daughter-in-law. Her husband had passed a few years ago. A probe by the police revealed that she had died more than 12 hours before but no one in the family had enquired about her till her body was found. “The meeting lasted 40 minutes. We were given a patient hearing and asked to give our complaint in writing with specific charges. We are contemplating writing accordingly. We all know how she was treated by her son and daughter-in-law,” Ananya Chakraborti told The Telegraph. She recounted how Jyoti Datta conveyed to the police his shock about the state the talented designer found herself in before her death. “It was clearly a case of abuse of an elderly person and we will give our complaint in detail as suggested,” Chakraborti said. A day after Datta’s death, Chakraborti had written to the joint commissioner (crime) alleging that the designer was abused by her son and daughter-in-law. “She had confided in me several times… how they (son and daughter-in-law) had taken away everything from her, her wealth, her property, her brand and was paying her a small allowance… She also said how she had been coerced into signing off everything in the favour of her son and daughter-in-law….” A senior officer said they would start an inquiry if they received a specific complaint against her family members. The post-mortem report is yet to arrive. A section of privy to the findings of the preliminary autopsy said Dutta had suffered a cerebral stroke.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-292
26-09-2020||Calcutta||Panel censures 2 hospitals for overbilling, orders refund||The West Bengal Clinical Establishment Regulatory Commission on Friday found to be true complaints of inflated billing against two private hospitals and ordered them to return various sums to the patients. The commission also warned the hospitals — Desun Hospital and BP Poddar Hospital — against repeating the practice. Desun Hospital was ordered to return Rs 65,478. BP Poddar Hospital offered to return Rs 50,000 and the commission asked it to do so. The commission’s chairperson, retired judge Ashim Kumar Banerjee, said both hospitals had charged exorbitant amounts for some pathological tests. “The rates were more than what the most reputable diagnostic laboratory in the city, whose results most doctors accept without any doubt, charge,” Banerjee said. BP Poddar Hospital had also violated the cap imposed by the state government on the PPE charge and doctors’ consultation fee. “Fifty-seven-year-old Ashok Kumar Choraria lodged a complaint that he had been billed Rs 1,15,478 for a mere 16-hour stay at Desun Hospital on August 22. The hospital has claimed that he stayed for 19 hours. The hospital charged the patient Rs 26,000 for bed for this duration,” said Banerjee. The patient was suffering from Covid-19. “When we examined the bill, we found some discrepancies. The IL6 test, that is done for Covid-19 patients, was done twice during this short stay. The charges of some routine tests seemed to be very high. For example, the hospital had charged Rs 1,900 for the liver function test. We compared this with the charge of the most reputable laboratory in the city. They charge Rs 1,250 for the test,” he said. He said the commission told a representative of Desun Hospital during the hearing that their charges were “exorbitant”. The patient’s family deposited Rs 50,000 during admission and paid the remaining Rs 65,478 of the total bill during discharge. They alleged during the hearing that the hospital refused to discharge him if the balance amount was not paid. “We have asked Desun Hospital to return Rs 65,478 to the patient. We have also warned the hospital that we do not want a repeat of this practice,” the chairperson said. When asked about the commission’s order, Tapas Mukherjee, the deputy managing director of Desun, said: “We have not yet received a written copy of the order. So we will not comment.” Choraria got himself admitted in another hospital after being discharged from Desun. A similar complaint of inflated billing was filed against BP Poddar Hospital. “A man suffering from Covid remained in the hospital for eight days and was billed Rs 2,77,169. The insurance company paid only Rs 1,26,673. The patient’s family had to pay the rest,” the chairperson said. While scrutinising the bill, the commission found that the hospital had violated the cap set by the government for doctors’ consultation fee and personal protective equipment (PPE) charges. “The hospital had charged more for doctors’ consultation. It showed two heads and charged Rs 1,000 each for doctors’ consultation and medical officer’s fee. This cannot be done,” said Banerjee. “The hospital also charged high rates for pathological tests. They charged the patient Rs 6,525 for IL6 test and Rs 2,683 for the liver function test,” said Banerjee. “They also charged for masks separately from the PPE.” The government has capped doctors’ consultation fee and the PPE rate at Rs 1,000 each a day. The commission later issued an advisory clarifying that PPE rate would include the charged for gloves and masks. “I am not aware of this particular case…. We allow every patient or family to speak to the senior management if they have any complaint about billing or treatment. Every patient has the right to approach the commission if they feel, but I would like to say that they can also approach us before that if they want,” said Mohit D. Bhagat, the assistant general manager of BP Poddar Hospital and Medical Research Limited. The commission on Friday also asked two hospitals in Durgapur to file affidavits in the case of the death of a 17-year-old boy who had tested positive for Covid-19. One of the hospitals did not make any arrangements for the boy’s admission in any other hospital when they could not admit him. A doctor at the hospital who examined the boy had advised admission. “We have asked the hospital to show cause why they did not help the patient get admitted to another hospital,” said Banerjee. The boy underwent treatment for four days in the other hospital. The second hospital has been asked to provide all medical records.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-293
