27-09-2020||Calcutta||Amit Shah’s evocative ‘Vidyasagar ji’||“Vidyasagar ji”, “Vidyasagar ji”, “Vidyasagar ji”, “Vidyasagar Mahashay”. Amit Shah was not setting the record straight on the vandalism of Ishwarchandra Vidyasagar’s bust that coincided with the close of the BJP leader’s road show in Calcutta last year but tweeting four minutes after Mamata Banjeree had paid a bicentenary tribute to the Bengal renaissance icon on Saturday. The thoughtful and respectful “ji” was a gracious addition but it did end up reaffirming suggestions that the BJP continues to be unfamiliar with the cultural values of Bengal. “Vidyasagar ji” carries a ring of unfamiliarity to many in Bengal where the social reformer is referred to as “Vidyasagar”, which in itself is a mark of admiration and not a surname. Ishwarchandra Bandyopadhyay came to be known as Ishwarchandra Vidyasagar (Ocean of Knowledge) because of his scholarship. “Outsiders” and “their disregard for Bengal’s legacy” formed part of the chief minister’s homage, which referred to the May 14, 2019, defacement that is believed to have cost the BJP in the last lap of the general election in Bengal, somewhat spoiling its outstanding overall performance. “Remembering great social reformer and educationist Ishwar Chandra Vidyasagar on his 200th birth anniversary. He was a pioneer for Bangla language and drafted primer Barnaparichay. Also known as ‘Dayar Sagar’, he fought for widow remarriage, banning child marriage and polygamy,” Mamata tweeted in the morning of Vidyasagar’s 200th birth anniversary. Vidyasagar was born on September 26, 1820. “Vidyasagar truly represents the pride of Bengal and serves as an inspiration to us till date. His bust was unfortunately desecrated in 2019 by certain outsiders, which only shows their disregard for Bengal’s legacy. However, his teachings are deeply inculcated in our values,” Mamata added. Vidyasagar’s bust was smashed at a north Calcutta college named after him, allegedly by participants from Shah’s road show. Four minutes after Mamata’s statement on Saturday, Shah posted tweets in English and Bengali. “I bow to the legendary Ishwar Chandra Vidyasagar ji on his birth anniversary. As a distinguished social reformer, educationist and philosopher, he brought a huge transformation and revolution in the society through his far-reaching ideas and reforms in various fields,” he wrote. “Ishwar Chandra Vidyasagar ji championed for women rights, he campaigned relentlessly for the widow remarriage act and towards their empowerment. Vidyasagar ji’s towering and immortal legacy will always continue to be a source of inspiration for millions across the world.” The Bengali tweet by Shah stuck to “Vidyasagar”, except in one sentence where it was “Vidyasagar Mahashay”. After the vandalism, which had come with just the last phase of the Lok Sabha polls remaining, the BJP had not done much to address the issue other than try to shift the blame for the act on Trinamul. Prime Minister Narendra Modi had taken two days to end his silence on the matter. The legacy of Vidyasagar, with his inclusive, reformist vision of secular humanism, had not been a priority with the saffron camp. But after the results showed a BJP rout in the final phase of an election it had till then unexpectedly dominated in the state, the vandalism came to be viewed widely as a turning point in the Bengal chapter of the polls. The BJP had bettered Trinamul or gone neck and neck with it through the first six phases, winning 18 of the 33 seats, before drawing a blank in the nine-seat final phase. Those nine Lok Sabha seats make up 63 of the state’s 294 Assembly segments, including 35 crucial urban seats in Calcutta and North and South 24-Parganas. Of these 35, the BJP secured leads in only 5, while leading from 116 of the remaining 231 Assembly segments in the state. Since the results, the BJP has been tripping over itself to declare its respect for Vidyasagar. On Saturday, state BJP chief Dilip Ghosh, too, posted tweets. Ghosh’s initial tribute did not mention the vandalism. But 42 minutes later -- and over 90 minutes after Mamata’s statement -- he posted another tweet, tagging May 14, 2019, as a “Black Day”. “The people of Bengal won’t forget… the day the statue of this great icon of the Bengali Renaissance was destroyed by miscreants inspired by Didi’s philosophy. If the BJP comes to power, it will reinstate the heritage of Vidyasagar and the incident will be investigated,” Ghosh wrote. Hooghly MP and BJP politician Locket Chatterjee, who garlanded the Vidyasagar statue at College Square with much fanfare on Saturday, too insisted that the May 2019 vandalism had been the handiwork of “goons of Trinamul”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-290
27-09-2020||Calcutta||Isher, who started out from city, is no more||Isher Judge Ahluwalia, noted economist and chairperson emeritus of the Delhi-based think-tank Indian Council for Research on International Economic Relations’ board of governors, has passed away. She was 74. As an economist, Isher Ahluwalia spoke and wrote with authority and compassion on a wide range of subjects: from the rapid industrial development in a few city-centric clusters that threatened to widen the urban-rural divide to a deeper, macro-economic assessment of the reforms that India adopted in 1991. She had a master’s in economics from the Delhi School of Economics (DSE)  followed by a PhD from the Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT) and a fairly long stint with the International Monetary Fund in Washington. But it had all started out in Calcutta. Her parents lived in a rented flat close to Purna Cinema in the Bhowanipore area. She was a student of Shri Shikshayatan School and had stood eighth in the overall rankings for the state school board examinations in 1962 — which earned her a scholarship to Presidency College where she studied economics. She was part of the Presidency mentor group. “We are deeply saddened by the news of her untimely demise,”  said school secretary-general Bratati Bhattacharyya. A Padma Bhushan awardee, Isher Ahluwalia wrote two major books: Industrial Growth in India: Stagnation Since the Mid-Sixties and Productivity and Growth in Indian Manufacturing. Bengal finance minister Amit Mitra described Isher Ahluwalia as an outstanding economist who was meticulous in her work.  Two years senior to him in the Presidency College and Delhi School of Economics, Isher Ahluwalia and Mitra had collaborated on many projects. “I did not know her in Presidency but our paths must have crossed. When I joined DSE, I got to know of her but she had left for MIT in the US. We worked on many things thereafter, notably at a trans-continental project when I was in Virginia, US and she was in Delhi in the winter of 1991,” Mitra recalled. Mitra said he was stumped when Isher Ahluwalia met chief minister Mamata Banerjee at Writers’ Building years later. “She spoke in fluent Bengali with the CM. I was completely taken aback. I had known her for years but I didn’t know,” Mitra said. Ramprasad Sengupta, emeritus professor of economics at Jawaharlal Nehru University, had studied with Isher Ahluwalia at Presidency College. “We joined Presidency College in 1962,” he said. “She was an extremely studious and polite lady at that time. Legendary teacher Bhabatosh Datta was our head of the department. She was one of the best in the class at Presidency. She was among the first five or six of the class. Isher had a good career after completing graduation. Her real shine came out when she was doing research and was producing books after completing her doctorate at MIT. “I still remember when she was doing her PhD she came on a trip to Calcutta and came to me because she needed some data collection work on Indian Macroeconometric behaviour.  She was a noted economist.” Malabika Sarkar, who was the vice-chancellor of Presidency University till May 2014, worked with Ahluwalia when she was part of the Presidency mentor group.  She said: “Isher was a dynamic member of the group not just during discussions but also always available for help and advice from Delhi whenever needed.” Isher Ahluwalia is survived by husband Montek, and sons Pawan and Aman.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-290
27-09-2020||Calcutta||Stirrings of the 9pm heartbeat||A ride through some of the busiest city roads a little after 9pm used to give a deserted midnight vibe till a month ago. Not anymore. The traffic snarls are back at night and the parking lots busy. People are waiting outside restaurants and Gariahat stalls are open till at least 8pm. The festive season is a big pull, according to small and big business owners. Many people have accepted that the coronavirus is here to stay and decided to live with it, they said. The Telegraph toured two iconic places in Calcutta to gauge the night mood: “Ekhon kotha bola jabe na, bhir achhe dokaane (Cannot talk now. The store is crowded),” Manabendra Saha, the co-owner of Traders Assembly — a sari shop almost synonymous with the Gariahat crossing — said when Metro called on Saturday afternoon. The evening before, Metro had seen at least 20 people inside the store. On a Sunday afternoon in the middle of August, the only people Metro had seen inside the store were a handful of employees. Around 8.30pm on Friday, the footpaths near the Gariahat crossing had hundreds of buyers at stalls that sold everything from trinkets to melamine plates. In the past years, a Friday evening at Gariahat in the run-up to the festive season used to be chaotic. All one could see was black heads. Swarms of people would be at the crossing waiting for the signal to turn green for pedestrians. On Friday, Gariahat was busy but not chaotic. Around 9.15pm, scores of people waited for buses on the road. At least 30 autos waited for passengers. The familiar “Chetla-New Alipore-Taratala” shouts from drivers came constantly. A fast-food outlet, popular for kathi rolls, had more than 10 people at the counter around 8.45pm. But for shopkeepers — who have had their backs pushed to the wall in the absence of shoppers because of the pandemic — it was a welcome sight. “Thank god for the festive season,” Debasish Dey, who sells handbags at the Gariahat crossing said. He had hardly sold anything from June to the middle of August. Hawkers were allowed to resume business from May 27. From end of August, shops and stalls started registering higher footfall. By the middle of September, Dey was back to being busy. On Friday, he had sold more than a dozen bags till 8pm. Under the flyover, the kings, knights and bishops were back to fighting each other. Chess boards had been laid out on at least five tables. “We are asking senior citizens not to come. But other than that, people are coming regularly,” Abhijit Saha, the secretary of the Gariahat Chess Club, said. “Ektu egiye dekhun, ekhane hobe na (There is no space here; go a bit ahead and check out),” an attendant at the parking lot on the road in front of Silver Grill kept telling people around 9.10pm on Friday. At least 20 cars were parked in the lot. Outside Peter Cat, at least 20 diners were seen waiting to get in. Not everyone stood on the white circles drawn on the road outside to maintain distance. At 9.30pm, the waiting time at Bar-B-Q was “over 20 minutes”. Children selling balloons and candys were back, doing rounds of the footpaths on either side of the road. “We see good footfall on weekdays. On weekends, there are many people waiting outside,” a Peter Cat employee said. Pratap Daryanani, the owner of Oasis, spotted the return of an old trend. “Many people have been coming after a day of shopping, suggesting the festive season has lifted their spirits.” Almost all restaurant owners Metro spoke to said the permission to serve liquor at restaurants had led to higher footfall. The time of the last order at many places has now been extended to 10.45pm. A month ago, when the lid on bottles was still in force, it was 9.30pm. “People have realised that Covid-19 is not going anywhere anytime soon. They are prepared to lead life normally, acknowledging its presence. There has been a shift — from fear to acceptance,” Nitin Kothari, the owner of Mocambo and Peter Cat, said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-291
27-09-2020||Calcutta||Cinemas with limit from October 1, tweets CM||Cinemas, jatras, open-air theatres, and some other performing arts activities will be allowed in the state from October 1 with 50 or fewer people in attendance, chief minister Mamata Banerjee tweeted on Saturday evening. The permission is “subject to adherence to physical distancing norms, wearing of masks & compliance to precautionary protocols”, she said in the tweet at 8.43pm. All these activities have remained closed since the Centre announced a nationwide lockdown in March because of the pandemic. The four unlock phases till now, too, haven’t allowed the opening of these activities apart from open air-theatres, which have been allowed to function from September 21. The Unlock 4 guidelines issued by the home ministry on August 29 said cinemas, swimming pools, entertainent parks, theatres and similar places would remain closed. “However, open-air theatres will be permitted to run from September 21,” the guidelines had said. The Centre’s guidelines have primacy over the state’s during the pandemic, according to the disaster management act,  a central government official said. People associated with cinemas, jatras, theatres have had a tough time as they haven’t had any income for six months because of the situation triggered by the pandemic. Company owners are under financial duress and employees are struggling to make ends meet, a theatre professional said. Jatras are traditionally performed in the open. Plays, too, can be performed in the open. Moreover, with up to 50 people being allowed, there should be scope for following distancing rules. The only contentious case is the reopening of cinemas and if magic shows, musicals, plays and dances are performed in a closed environment. Although the chief minister’s tweet did not elaborate on these matters, theatre professionals said they expected the government to soon come out with clear guidelines.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-291
27-09-2020||Calcutta||Family income hit, IIEST students seek fee waiver||Some students at IIEST Shibpur have requested the authorities to waive their tuition fees because “family earnings have been hit” by the pandemic. The board of governors, the highest-decision making body of the Indian Institute of Engineering Science and Technology, met recently. The board has advised institute director Parthasarathi Chakrabarti to write to the HRD ministry about the request by the students, a board member said. The board has adopted a resolution on the matter. The annual tuition fees is Rs 1,25,000, excluding the annual hostel and mess charge of Rs 50,000. Several students have been struggling to pay the fees because of loss of income in the family during the pandemic, an IIEST official said. “Students from all years other than first year (BTech as well as MTech) have requested director Chakrabarti that tuition fees be waived. As the director cannot decide on the matter by himself, it was placed before the board,” the official said. The ministry fixes the tuition fees; so, the director has been advised to write to the minister, another official said. The institute already has a mechanism in place that ensures full tuition fee waiver if a student’s annual family income is less than Rs 1 lakh, the official said. If the income ranges between Rs 1 lakh and Rs 5 lakh, he/she is required to pay half the amount. “But during the pandemic, the institute has been receiving waiver requests from all categories of students. Even students whose annual family income is above Rs 5 lakh is seeking a waiver,” he said. The institute had in August decided that students need not pay Rs 17,500 as mess advance, Rs 3,000 as mess entrance fee, Rs 1,000 as seat rent, and Rs 800 as electricity and water charges for the autumn semester that started from August 24. Following an appeal from the students’ senate, the institute had decided to waive activities fee of Rs 500 and to bring down the infrastructure fee to Rs 1,000 from Rs 2,500 for this semester. Repeated calls to director Chakrabarti went unanswered. He did not respond to text messages either. “Many are worried about the grim job situation. There is no guarantee they will get jobs after graduating from the institute, given the sharp fall in employment,” a teacher said. “People in their families have lost jobs because of the situation triggered by the pandemic. Everybody is trying to save whatever is possible.” A multinational ride-hailing company, headquartered in the US, had in early May withdrawn its job offer to three engineering students of the institute, citing “business decision” because of the economic downslide caused by the pandemic.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-291
27-09-2020||Calcutta||The relevance of Vidyasagar||Vidyasagar did not want to build India based on religion; instead he wanted India to be the melting pot of all cultures, Suranjan Das, the vice-chancellor of Jadavpur University, said. He has become relevant at a time when India is encountering the threat of “religious sectarianism and fundamentalism”, Das said while speaking on the relevance of the polymath at Vidyasagar Academy. The education department had organised a programme at the academy to mark the bicentenary of Vidyasagar’s birth. He reminded all that the university should always be a place for debate and deliberations as luminaries like Vidyasagar had envisaged and not a place for “indoctrination”. “I want to talk about how Vidyasagar continues to be relevant in the context of today’s India. Vidyasagar symbolised modernity and he dreamt of India emerging as a modern state. His modernity had no connection with any religion,” Das said. “This element in Vidyasagar’s thought process is relevant for contemporary India when we are faced with the challenge of religious sectarianism and fundamentalism. “The Indian culture does not represent one particular religion or cultural trait. It is an assimilation of various cultural traits; it is syncretic in nature. Surely, Vidyasagar was aware of this trait in Indian pluralistic cultural tradition when he sought to consciously detach the modernising process with any religious thinking.” The year-long celebrations on the 200th birth anniversary of Pandit Iswar Chandra Vidyasagar had started days before May 14 last year when suspected BJP activists had barged into Vidyasagar College on Bidhan Sarani in north Calcutta while a rally led by BJP president Amit Shah was passing by and damaged the bust of Vidyasagar. The event at Vidyasagar Academy on Badur Bagan —Vidyasagar’s residence in Calcutta, about a kilometre from the college — marked the culmination of the year-long celebrations. Das was among the vice-chancellors present at the programme. “We do not know if Vidyasagar subscribed to any religious belief. In none of Vidyasagar’s texts there is celebration of any particular religion. He was averse to the practice of any religious function in an educational institution. What Vidyasagar remained firmly committed to was humanism,” Das said. Das — a historian who faced vandalism at Jadavpur University in September last year by suspected activists of the ABVP, the students’ wing of the RSS — said although Vidyasagar believed in modernity, his notion of modernity was not completely antagonistic towards tradition. “What he aspired for is to create a melting point for the best in tradition and the best in modern.” Education minister Partha Chatterjee presided over the programme and referred to the vandalism at Vidyasagar College. He accused the BJP of decimating the rich values and tradition set by people like Vidyasagar and Tagore. As academics discuss the National Education Policy, Vidyasagar’s relevance will come to their mind because he believed in liberal approach to education, which should be at the heart of any education policy, Das said. “At the core of any higher education policy lies the notion of a university. Thinkers — from Immanuel Kant to John Henry Newman, Wilhelm von Humboldt to Rabindranath Tagore and Mahatma Gandhi — had distinguished the modern university from its medieval forerunners by envisaging for it an autonomous sphere in relation to the emerging nation-state. Universities are thus required to be ‘incubators of ideas and innovations’. This fits with the liberal approach in education that Vidyasagar believed in,” he said. “In his time Vidyasagar proved himself to be an astute but a socially inclusive academic administrator and we need to fall back upon his notion of teaching-learning process to make the pursuit of higher education ‘as enlightenment’ and not ‘as indoctrination’, developing universities as sites for deliberations and debates where the community should be trained to learn, unlearn and relearn and develop themselves as inclusive global citizens.” Education minister Partha Chatterjee presided over the programme and referred to the vandalism at Vidyasagar College. He accused the BJP of decimating the rich values and tradition set by people like Vidyasagar and Tagore.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-291
27-09-2020||Calcutta||Teachers need council nod to use ICSE name||The ICSE council has asked teachers of its schools not to use the council’s name or logo at any seminar, workshop or training programme without its “prior consent and approval”. The Council for the Indian School Certificate Examinations has issued a circular to school heads asking them to relay the message to all its teachers. “This is to bring under your attention that the council has come across various instances of teachers from council affiliated schools using the council’s name while introducing themselves at training programmes/seminars/ workshops conducted by them using online/offline platforms,” the circular said. The council “strongly” disapproves” of such “unauthorised use of its name or logo without prior consent and approval”, the circular said. Teachers can attend or participate in such events at their own discretion, the council said. The circular hasn’t mentioned why it imposed such a restriction on teachers. Some teachers give tuitions online and try to attract students by using the council’s name, a school principal said. The council wants to stop this, the principal said. The council has received several complaints about teachers offering tuitions and using its name to reach out to students.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-291
27-09-2020||Calcutta||Calcutta Municipal Corporation’s plan for tax defaulters||The Calcutta Municipal Corporation will roll out a penalty and interest waiver scheme for property tax defaulters from October, Firhad Hakim, the chairperson of the CMC’s board of administrators, said on Saturday. The waiver will be on offer from October 1 this year to March 31 next year. The waiver can be availed for tax bills raised till March 31, 2020, the end of this fiscal. “We have received the government nod to roll out the waiver scheme. The state cabinet has approved our proposal. It will begin from October 1,” Hakim said at the CMC headquarters on Saturday. The benefits of the scheme have been broken up into two, depending on how quickly one clears the pending amount. “If one clears the pending tax in the first five months, the penalty and interest will be zero. The defaulter has to clear only the principal amount,” a CMC official said. “If the dues are cleared after five months, 60 per cent of the interest and 99 per cent of the penalty will be waived.” The penalty is a one-time addition on the principal and the sum depends on the amount of the pending tax. Interest keeps on adding to the principal with the passing of every month from the last date for payment of tax. Metro had on September 5 reported that the CMC was likely to introduce the scheme from October. The civic body has more than Rs 2,m000 crore property tax pending. This is only the principal that can be shored up during the life of the waiver scheme, a CMC official said. The authorities hope the waiver scheme would encourage property owners to clear their tax dues and generate revenue for the civic body. The last time the CMC had launched such a waiver scheme was in 2012 and it had received a “very good response from tax defaulters”. The CMC act empowers the city mayor to waive 50 per cent penalty and interest on pending property tax. But it is done on individual cases and depends on the mayor’s discretion. The waiver scheme that will be introduced in October will cover all tax defaulters. Payments can be made online and offline. Those who apply for the scheme will get fresh bills, Hakim said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-291
27-09-2020||Calcutta||Nets to stop bikers from falling off flyover||Steel nets mounted on iron frames are being fixed on the crash barriers of Garden Reach flyover to prevent two-wheeler riders from being flung off the bridge during a crash. In June last year, three youths were flung off the flyover on impact when they rammed into the crash barrier at a sharp bend. They fell on a container lorry parked on the road below. None had a helmet at the time of the accident. Police and the Calcutta Metropolitan Development Authority (CMDA) had been thinking of ways to prevent a repeat of such an accident. Two-wheeler riders speeding on the flyover and ramming into the crash barrier at sharp bends is common, a police officer said. “We are installing steel nets along 540m on the flyover at sharp bends. The nets are 5.9ft high and strong enough to withstand the impact of two-wheeler crashes,” a CMDA official said. “The nets are being fitted on the crash barriers, which are 2.5ft high from the road surface.” All the nets will be installed by the end of this month. The installation will cost about Rs 34 lakh, another CMDA official said. The nets are being installed on the stretch of the flyover above City of Joy fuel pump and the office of Paharpur Cooling Towers, the police officer said. The flyover has a clearance of 12m from the ground below at one place, where a freight corridor has been planned, a CMDA official said. The nets are being installed there, too. “There are tracks running the flyover on a particular stretch. Usually, a flyover is built 6.5m above the ground where there are tracks,” the CMDA official said. “But on one stretch the height of the flyover is 12m from the ground because the rail authorities okayed the construction only if the height was maintained. They have planned a freight corridor at that place,” the official said. The 4.4km-long Garden Reach flyover was thrown open to traffic in March 2018. It connects Majerhat with the Brooklyn crossing, about 800m from the Ramnagar crossing in Garden Reach. Unavailability of land to place the piers of the flyover had forced the CMDA to design the flyover in a way that included some sharp bends, the official said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-291
27-09-2020||Calcutta||Want your property assessed? WhatsApp CMC||The civic body has launched a number on which people with unassessed properties can WhatsApp their property details and the CMC will take steps to complete the assessment, Firhad Hakim, the chairperson of the CMC’s board of administrators, said on Saturday. The number, 8335988888, will be monitored closely, a civic official said. On receiving information, the corporation will initiate the property assessment process. It will send forms that have to be filled by the person with unassessed property. The civic body will set up camps in areas where there are several people still to complete the assessment of their properties, the official said. “We frequently receive complaints about unassessed properties and mutation. Those who have unassessed properties can WhatsApp us on 8335988888,” Hakim said on Saturday. “We will start the process after we get the message.” The move is aimed at generating revenue, a Calcutta Municipal Corporation official said. It will widen the net of taxpayers and subsequently generate more revenue, he said. The pandemic has hit the corporation’s collections. “As people respond to this initiative, our net of taxpayers will widen,” the official said. This way the CMC will be able to complete assessment of all properties in the Calcutta municipal area, Hakim said. “There are many people who want to complete assessment of their properties but have to move around from one place to another. All of them can approach us on this number. This will be like a single-window system. There will not be any unassessed property in Calcutta in another one to one-and-a-half years.” No CMC official could provide an estimated number of unassessed properties in the city. The problem of unassessed properties is more in the Kasba-Jadavpur-Behala belt where there are problems with land records, an official said. The property tax is based on the valuation of the property. The assessment means its valuation and existence gets recorded in the CMC’s books, the official said. The civic body may impose a penalty on the owner for not assessing the property. “Owners of unassessed properties should avail themselves of this opportunity to stay clear of future hassles,” the official said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-291
