28-09-2020||Calcutta||What the heart hears, the hand will tell||Women are still a rare sight in a few places. One such spot is the one behind the tabla. Women vocalists have earned their place on the classical music stage. But not so much as percussionists. Something about beating a surface with force strong enough to produce a sound, perhaps, is still considered an intrinsically male activity. (In older times, the beating of drums announced war, certainly a predominantly male activity.) Rimpa Siva, however, began to play the tabla when she was about four. “I just took to it,” she says. Now 34, the Beleghata resident is a star. She has performed in many places in India and abroad, solo, or with the biggest names in Indian classical music, and has received many awards. Numerous videos of her performances and interviews pop up on the Net, as do write-ups and at least two short films on her, one made by a French crew. If she is still described as a leading “woman tabla player”, and if this description sounds discriminatory, even anachronistic, Rimpa brushes it aside. To her the reference to her as a woman performer means quite the opposite. “I think it is an acknowledgment of the fact women are becoming visible as tabla players,” says Rimpa. She believes in this. But one suspects that how she is described does not really matter to her. Very early, she surrendered her life to the tabla. She grew up to the sound of music at her home, the top floor of the three-storey Beleghata house that belongs to her family, where she has been confined for the six months of the lockdown. Her father, Swapan Siva, a tabla player also well-known in the city as a tabla teacher. Their surname, unusual for a Bengali family, comes from the fact that a Shivalinga had been dug up on their property in Kumilla, in former East Bengal, where the family originally comes from. Swapan was a student of Keramatullah Khan, the doyen of the Farrukhabad gharana, who lived in Ripon Street. At the beginning Swapan had thought he would encourage his daughter towards singing. But Rimpa’s obvious talent on the tabla decided things easily. She was stunning from the start. Swapan took over her training and she became his most distinguished pupil. “My father has been my guru,” says Rimpa. She has a broad smile that lights up her face. Her journey began early. “I performed at the Salt Lake Music Festival held at Rabindra Sadan when I was around eight. When I was about 12, I went on the ITC tour of Mumbai, Delhi and Jaipur,” says Rimpa. Spotted by the best musicians in the country, including tabla maestro Zakir Hussain, she would soon embark on a life that would be a mad flurry of performances, travel and awards, not something every child experiences. The French film, made in 1999, and called ‘Rimpa Siva: Princess of Tabla’, was made when she was 13. The film shows her as a student of Beleghata Deshabandhu Giris’ High School. She goes through school as if in a haze; her fingers drum on the desktop as the class is in progress. School education took a backseat. “But my school was very supportive. It postponed the selections before the class X board examination for me.” In 1997, she had toured US and Europe. In 2004, she accompanied Pandit Hariprasad Chaurasia as the main tabla player on his US tour. In 2006, she accompanied Pandit Jasraj on another US tour. She won the President’s Award in 2007 and the Sangeet Natak Akademi award in 2017. The years in between are crowded with performances and cities, which can run into pages. “In 1997, in San Francisco, Ali Akbar Khan himself attended my performance at the Ali Akbar College of Music. He blessed me and said that I should keep a lemon and chilli in my pocket to ward off evil,” says Rimpa. She seems quite unfazed by her achievements, but also exudes a quiet confidence. She also holds an M.A. degree from Rabindra Bharati University in Instrumental Music. The specialities of her gharana include kaida, rela, tukra and gat, words that have entered the Bengali language from music to indicate style or attitude. She practises for three to four hours every day. Her solo performances can last up to two hours. The lockdown makes her feel claustrophobic. It has practically stopped performance art. “I haven’t performed in six months,” she says. “Of late, I would be even travelling every month within the country, and sometimes two times abroad in a year.” But nothing really comes between Rimpa and her music. “I live for the tabla. Everything in my life happens around the tabla. It does not matter where I am performing, with whom. When I am playing, I transcend everything,” she says. “At that moment, I only feel peace and joy. Those who feel music know that peace and joy.” On stage, she appears to go into a trance, lost in the music. She also looks dressed like a typical male tabla player, in a high-collar kurta, and together with her hair, she almost suggests Zakir Hussain. That is a coincidence, she says. “I can’t play the tabla in a woman’s clothes. They are not comfortable.” She adds that she always had short hair and never cared for anything “girlie”. She did not time for friendship either. Rimpa is also not sure about the role marriage can play in a woman’s life if she is a musician. She feels that a lot of young Indians are showing interest in classical music now. She mentions Aban Mistry and Anuradha Pal as her illustrious predecessors in tabla, as women, and also does not shy away from suggesting that she is a role model for girls who want to take up the tabla, whether they will still be called “woman musicians” or not. She seems to say gender is not an impediment, but you have to strike out on your own. “Remember, girls can play the tabla,” she says.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-289
28-09-2020||Calcutta||Dog lover alleges fund-raising fraud||A young woman who runs a shelter for stray dogs in the city has alleged that photographs and details of her centre have been stolen and used by others to raise funds online from abroad. Titas Mukherjee, 29, a resident of Thakurpukur who has been running an NGO since 2016, has been raising funds through social media for sustaining multiple projects of feeding strays and sheltering them. Apart from running the city unit, she is setting up a shelter in Burdwan. “A web portal provides a platform for raising donations for noble causes. Earlier, I had raised money through the platform. Recently, when I was browsing through the different fundraisers on the portal, I spotted someone had used my photographs to raise Rs 5 lakh,” Titas told The Telegraph on Sunday. She lodged a complaint with the cyber cell of Calcutta police on Friday. “Identity theft by creating fake profiles... has become a big problem. We keep advising people to make their accounts visible only to those who are on their contact list,” said an officer.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-290
28-09-2020||Calcutta||Green shoots of shopping ahead of Puja||Shoppers thronged malls in numbers on Sunday with just three weekends to go before Durga Puja. A steady stream of cars, two-wheelers and app cabs were seen entering City Centre in Salt Lake and South City Mall on Prince Anwar Shah Road since afternoon and crowds swelled further as evening set in. The managers of the malls and several stores said business was finally picking up after a long lull as many people have accepted that the coronavirus is here to stay and they have to live with it. The Telegraph visited the two malls and caught the pulse of the Sunday shopathon. For every six cars moving down Prince Anwar Shah Road, three were entering the mall. The mall’s parking lot, which can accommodate around 2,500 cars, was full by around 4.30pm. Deep Biswas, the general manager of South City Mall, said footfall was steadily increasing with every passing weekend and things have been looking up since last week. He put Sunday’s footfall in excess of 35,000. The Friday count had been 20,000 and on Saturday, it crossed 25,000. An employee of a denim outlet at the mall said there had been a marked increase in the number of buyers compared with the last month. “Sales are picking up. Last month, there were only a few people who bought garments but this weekend is promising,” he said. The manager at a footwear store echoed him. “Earlier people would hesitate to try out accessories before buying them. The trend is reversing,” he said. Priyanka Biswas said she and her daughter Sreeja needed to step out desperately and could not let Puja shopping take a backseat. “We decided to step out at any cost. We wore masks throughout, ate nothing, used a lot of hand sanitiser and shopped a few items. It felt heavenly,” said Biswas, a teacher at St Sebastian’s School. The Salt Lake mall had people dropping in since afternoon. People were leaving soon after making purchases. The footfall in the Kund area, where visitors would hang out in the pre-Covid times, has gone down. The restaurants at the mall, too, did brisk business. Metro spotted a young couple from Salt Lake, Aparajita and Srinjoy Roy Chakraborty, shopping for clothes and accessories. “We suddenly realised that Puja is round the corner and hopped into our car. It feels good,” said Srinjoy. Sukanta Mukherjee, the mall head, said the footfall had been rising over the last couple of weekends. “We are expecting the tempo to pick up further. People are realising that they have to live with the virus and life has to go on,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-290
28-09-2020||Calcutta||Festival to promote safe kite flying||A kite-flying festival was organised in New Town on Sunday to promote the use of cotton strings, which are considered safer for birds and two-wheeler-riders compared with nylon strings and ones laced with manja. The city has witnessed many accidents, including some fatal, after two-wheeler-riders got entangled with nylon strings of kites, known as Chinese manja, and also manja-laced cotton strings. Such strings have also claimed the lives of many birds. Manja, a mixture of glass and glue, helps kites soar but also adds to the string’s sharpness. The kite-flying festival was organised by the New Town Kolkata Development Authority and the New Town Forum and News. Debashis Sen, the chairman of the development authority, said the event had been organised because many had taken to kite-flying during the lockdown and to promote safe flying practices. “We want to ensure that those who are flying kites in New Town know the proper techniques and, most importantly, know that the only way to fly them is by using cotton strings. Nylon ones and manja are a strict no no,” said Sen. The high court had in July directed cops to strictly enforce the ban on Chinese manja. However, they are still freely available. Gora Uzir, the vice-president of the Kolkata Kite Association, said one of the reasons why Chinese manja had gained popularity was that it was available at a fraction of the cost of cotton threads. “A single reel of good quality cotton thread sells for around Rs 1,200. In comparison, one can easily get a reel of Chinese manja at Rs 400-500. None of the experienced flyers and those who compete use these strings,” said Uzir. According to him, flying kites with Chinese manja is akin to boxing with weighted gloves. The practice is unethical and dangerous. Ankur Roy Chaudhury, a resident of CE Block and a member of the New Town Forum and News, said they had organised the festival to spread awareness about kite-flying and highlight the fact that it is a fun activity. “We want to popularise flying kites with cotton strings,” said Roy Chaudhury.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-290
28-09-2020||Calcutta||IT employee and fiancee killed in accident||A youth and his fiancee were killed after their scooter was hit from behind by a truck near Kolkata Gate in New Town late on Saturday, police said. Both were wearing helmets. The scooterist was trying to steer past traffic guardrails placed at an intersection when it came in front of the truck, several witnesses have told police. Dipayan Mukherjee and Medha Paul, both employees of a multinational IT company, were headed towards the airport after dinner at a restaurant in New Town when the accident happened, said an officer of the traffic wing of Bidhannagar Police Commissionerate. A relative of Mukherjee said he had lost his father several years back and stayed with his mother at their Baranagar house. “Dipayan and Medha were to get married soon. They had postponed their wedding because of the lockdown,” said the relative, who did not want to be named. The officer of the commissionerate said Mukherjee had taken a left turn from Kolkata Gate and hit the airport-bound flank of Major Arterial Road when the truck, headed towards the airport from the Unitech intersection, rammed into the two-wheeler. A guard at the site where a pedestrian subway complex is being constructed, at the base of Kolkata Gate, said the scooterist was trying to weave through guardrails when the truck hit the vehicle from behind. The truck’s wheels went over Mukherjee and Paul. The guards at the construction site alerted police and the two were taken to Salt Lake Sub-divisional Hospital, where they were declared dead. “Both had suffered critical head injuries and lost a lot of blood. They also had multiple fractures. We failed to revive them,” said a doctor who examined them. Dhirtiman Sarkar, deputy commissioner, traffic, Bidhannagar commissionerate, said CCTV cameras at the crossing captured the accident. “We are trying to track down the truck,” Sarkar said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-290
28-09-2020||Calcutta||Tram lovers demand revival of clean transport||A group of tram conservationists on Sunday demanded that the state transport department formulate a policy to help trams emerge again as a popular transport option in the city, where the service made its India debut around 150 years ago. Members of the Calcutta Tram Users Association (CTUA) alleged that over the years there had been a concerted move to scrap tram routes even though trams remain the best environment-friendly option for mass transportation in a polluted city like Calcutta. “Some of the most popular routes have been either truncated or done away with. Trams tracks have been removed from bridges and flyovers citing the health of the structures and their inability to bear load. Why?” asked Debasish Bhattacharyya, of the CTUA. “Around the world when efforts are on to preserve and popularise trams, in Calcutta we are trying to ensure a sure death of this mode of transportation.” On Sunday, CTUA members turned up outside the Kalighat tram depot with posters demanding preservation of Calcutta’s tram heritage, which they said would make the city less polluted. Trams started their journey in Calcutta in 1873. The carriages were then drawn by horses. In 1902, the first electric tram car began its service between Esplanade and Kidderpore. The trams have taken a serious beating over the past few years. From 37 routes covering 70km in the 1960s, the city had only six routes spanning 20km till Cyclone Amphan struck on May 20. All six routes became defunct under the impact of the storm. Five of them have since been restored. “Tram services have been stopped on the Sealdah flyover and the Kalighat bridge. At the Belgachhia tram depot, crores of rupees were spent on relaying the tracks so that the service on the Belgachhia bridge could resume. There are 35 tramcars inside the depot and they have been rotting because the service on the Belgachhia bridge has been stopped,” Bhattacharyya said. “There is no policy towards restoring the tram service in Calcutta. Instead, efforts are on how to do away with it.” A West Bengal Transport Corporation official said they had been trying to preserve and showcase the heritage. “There is a small tram museum at Esplanade. We have started a library on an AC tram,” he said. Experts who have been advocating for a clean and green transportation system have often cited how governments around the world have been investing on streetcars, trams and light rails. Berlin, for instance, has improved its ageing tram systems. The city of Richmond in British Columbia, Canada, had a team of conservators, curators and volunteers working on restoring the Interurban Tram Car. Calcutta police have often objected to trams moving in a direction opposite to that of the city's traffic flow saying the slow-moving bogies remain the biggest hurdle for increasing the speed of vehicular movement. Monks and volunteers of Ramakrishna Math, Cossipore, joined hands to clean and sanitise the area surrounding the Math on Sunday and plant saplings as part of Rashtriya Poshan Maah 2020.  Poshan Maah is part of a national nutrition mission launched in 2018 to improve nutritional status of children up to six years, adolescent girls, pregnant women and lactating mothers.  “Nutritious food packets and clothes will be distributed to children in the area adjoining the Math on Monday,” said a senior monk.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-290
28-09-2020||Calcutta||Sikh solidarity with farmers||About 400 members of the Sikh community in Calcutta marched in protest on Sunday morning against the Centre’s farm bills, saying those would ruin the livelihoods of over eighty per cent farmers of the country. The bills received the President’s assent in the evening. The men and women, who walked from Gurdwara Sant Kutiya on Harish Mukherjee Road to the Gandhi statue on Mayo Road, said those who would be affected were small and medium farmers who owned small tracts of lands. The protestors, many of whom said they had farmland in Punjab and Haryana, demanded an undertaking from the Centre that the minimum support price would not be withdrawn after the bills were signed into law. Seven of the protesters later submitted a list of grievances at Raj Bhavan. If the bills become law in the current form, protesters said, the farmers will be at the mercy of big companies. “The biggest worry is that the minimum support prices (MSP), which have helped farmers survive for so many years, will be done away with. The Prime Minister has said that the MSP will not be removed, but that is only a verbal assurance,” said Avtar Singh, one of those who walked in the rally. “The farmers will feel assured only if there is something in writing from the Centre that the MSP will not be removed,” said Avtar, gene-ral secretary of Gurdwara Sant Kutiya. Gursharan Singh, a resident of Behala who runs a transport business, feared that the bills, once turned into law, would lead to a situation where farmers will be forced to sell their produce at a price lower than the cost of production. Gursharan, whose family owns farmland in Punjab’s Gurdaspur district, said crops for which MSP was not declared were often thrown away by farmers in protest. “Every year, we hear farmers throwing away crops because they get very low prices. But farmers who cultivate rice and wheat do not have to do this since they are guaranteed an MSP. If the security of MSP is taken away, we will start hearing about more such protests (involving throwing away of produce),” he said. A counter-argument is that once an MSP is set, no private player will pay more than that, and the MSP will become the unofficial “maximum” price, leaving farmers at a disadvantage. The Farmer’s Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Bill, 2020, and the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement of Price Assurance and Farm Services Bill, 2020, was passed by Parliament earlier this month. In Sunday’s rally, organised by the Calcutta Sikh Sangat, people walked with posters that read “I support farmers” and “Rollback anti-farmer bill”. “If farmers are devastated, all others will be affected. If two or three companies dominate the market and buy most of the produce directly from farmers, they will be in a position to control retail prices,” said a protester.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-290
28-09-2020||Calcutta||College session start earliest by December||Undergraduate classes in Bengal’s government-run colleges and government-aided universities are unlikely to start before the first week of December, education minister Partha Chatterjee said after a virtual meeting with the vice-chancellors on Sunday. Postgraduate classes, too, are unlikely to start before December, the minister said. All classes will be held on digital platforms since gatherings are banned on campuses because of Covid-19. “I held a meeting with the vice-chancellors. I will update chief minister Mamata Banerjee about the outcome of the meeting. But let me inform you about the possibilities of starting the session.  It will be difficult to start the academic session before the first week of December. This is subject to consideration,” Chatterjee said. Some universities over the past month or so have been holding classes on digital platforms for students in intermediate semesters. From the first week of December, students of all years will attend classes on the digital platform. Admission of first-year undergraduate students is on. “At the meeting, it was initially decided that undergraduate classes would start in November. But immediately after the talks were over, there was another round of discussion where it was decided not to do anything in haste and wait till December,” said an official in the education department. “The decision to start the session in December would only be applicable to the state-aided universities and the colleges affiliated to them. The private universities would be outside the purview of this decision,” he said. The government, the official said, is yet to decide on the start of the academic session in schools. A vice-chancellor present at the meeting said 80 per cent of the seats in postgraduate classes would be set-aside for students from the home university. Earlier, 60 per cent of the seats were reserved for such students. “The quota for home students has been increased because the pandemic will make it difficult for many students to travel to other cities or states,” the VC said. Endorsing the academic calendar drawn by the UGC, the ministry of education had on September 22 announced that it had taken into account the Covid-19 pandemic and decided that first-year undergraduate and postgraduate classes could start on November 1. “The minister raised the issue at today’s virtual meeting and it was decided that undergraduate classes would start on November 2. But later there was a rethink and the start of the session has been pushed back to December,” a VC said. Chatterjee said the academic session could not be started in November because a number of festive occasions are scheduled for the month. The education department will write to the UGC explaining why commencement of the session has to be deferred. “I cannot curtail the pujas. Then there are festive occasions. I will humbly tell the UGC about the difficulty coming in the way of starting the session in November,” said Chatterjee. The UGC had on September 22 said that universities might start the session on November 18 if there was any delay in the declaration of the results of the qualifying exams. “As we will not be complying with the rescheduled deadline as well, permission has to be sought from the UGC,” another official of the department said. Though Chatterjee did not say anything about when in-person classes would start, he asked the institutes to sanitise their campuses. “As far as holding classes through offline mode is concerned, I hope they will draw an action plan so that students are not harmed,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-290
28-09-2020||Calcutta||Cross-border medical lockdown||A Bangladesh hospital’s cardiology unit that functioned in collaboration with an Indian healthcare group has been shut since March because the doctors, nurses and paramedics from Calcutta who ran it returned home following the Covid-19 outbreak and are now unable to report back. Some 160 heart patients who were scheduled to undergo surgery or other procedures at the Imperial Hospital in Chittagong have been calling desperately to find out when the unit would resume functioning, hospital authorities said. The news is that the medical team from Calcutta is ready to go back but cannot because flights, trains and road transport have stopped between Calcutta and Dhaka. It was around the Durga Puja season last year that the 350-bed Imperial Hospital had tied up with the Narayana Health group to set up the cardiology unit, hospital officials said. The 65-bed unit began functioning from February 16 this year. Some 25 healthcare personnel joined Imperial’s cardiology section from Narayana Health’s Calcutta unit, of which the R.N. Tagore International Institute of Cardiac Sciences is the flagship hospital. The team included cardiac surgeons, interventional cardiologists, critical-care experts, nurses trained in critical cardiac care, and paramedics. The Chittagong hospital provided another 25-odd personnel, mostly junior doctors and support staff. “The doctors saw 1,972 patients and selected 160 for cardiac bypass surgeries, stent implants and other surgeries and procedures,” Imperial Hospital chairman Rabiul Husain told The Telegraph from Chittagong. “But in the last week of March (before the surgeries and procedures could start), the team members left for India as Covid-19 had begun to spread.” Husain added: “We were all unsure about the situation at the time, and we too thought it would be best for them to return to their families for the time being. So we facilitated their return.” He said everyone had thought that the team would be able to come back within a couple of months. Husain said: “Now patients are calling us desperately to know when the doctors would be available again.” He said the callers included many patients who had undergone procedures and surgeries at Narayana Health’s Bangalore hospital and were waiting for follow-up treatment at Imperial. In the pre-Covid days, Husain said, many patients from Bangladesh went to Indian cities such as Bangalore, Chennai and Calcutta for treatment. With that option closed now, these patients are stuck. In Calcutta, Narayana Health authorities acknowledged that Imperial was asking them to send the doctors back. “We are receiving calls and mails. The doctors and other members of the team are ready to go but it’s not possible (for lack of transport),” said R. Venkatesh, regional director, eastern India, Narayana Health. “We are speaking to the Indian and Bangladeshi authorities about this, but as of now nothing is happening and we have to wait.” Flights between Calcutta and Dhaka have been stalled since the pandemic broke out, with the exception of a few Vande Bharat flights in May. Sources said that although these flights were meant to bring back stranded expats, the medical personnel would have been allowed to travel to Bangladesh on them but they had at the time been unwilling. The Bengal government later stopped evacuation flights from international destinations after many of the returning passengers went home from the airport instead of going to quarantine centres, as required. Bengal has, however, allowed international flights to resume from September under the air transport bubble programme — an arrangement between two countries to operate a specific number of commercial flights — provided all the passengers have medical certificates declaring them Covid-negative. “We are expecting flights under the air transport bubble programme to start soon between India and Bangladesh,” a civil aviation ministry official said. A Bangladesh deputy high commission official in Calcutta, however, said there was no clarity when visas would be issued again or passenger transport between the two countries would resume.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-290
