29-09-2020||Calcutta||Saviour Nilanjana Chatterjee seeks ‘exemplary punishment’||Nilanjana Chatterjee, who suffered fractures in her left leg while trying to save a woman who was screaming in a car on the night of September 5, told a judicial magistrate on Monday that she wanted exemplary punishment for the accused. Accused Abhishek Kumar Pandey, who was at the wheel of a Honda City, allegedly knocked down Nilanjana with the car before speeding off. “I have pleaded with the learned judicial magistrate that the accused be given exemplary punishment so that someone else planning to commit a similar offence would think twice before doing so,” Nilanjana told The Telegraph, hours after she left the magistrate’s chamber at the Alipore court lying on a stretcher. “The intention was to kill me. I told the learned judicial magistrate that my right leg was folded after I fell. Else the car would have gone over both legs.” She was returning home with husband Deep Satpathi in their car when she heard screams of a woman from inside another car near the Ruby crossing. Deep stopped their car blocking the way of the other vehicle — a Honda City — and the woman who was screaming was allegedly thrown out. When Nilanjana tried to approach the woman, Pandey allegedly sped off and the car ran over her left leg. He was later arrested.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-289
29-09-2020||Calcutta||None to guide to gates, queues grow at airport||Long queues are forming at two entrances to the airport terminal as the departure passengers who need to get boarding passes from airline counters at Gate 3C are queueing up at the nearest gate and often there is  no one to guide them to other entrances. The airport authorities have since last week been following a tweaked entry process, allowing passengers to enter the terminal through both entrances of each gate. The integrated terminal of the airport has five gates, three for domestic and two for international passengers. Each gate has two entrances. Since flight operations resumed in May, following the suspension announced in March because of Covid-19, passengers taking flights from Calcutta were being allowed to enter the terminal through one of the two entrances of each gate. The lane of one entrance was being used by airport personnel to sanitise luggage and check body temperature of passengers. Fliers entered through the other lane, which had a security personnel’s counter where e-boarding passes and readings on the Arogya Setu app were being checked. But there were huge congestions because of the Covid-related safety procedures and many fliers did not have smartphones and needed assistance to get boarding passes. They were being redirected to Gate 3C, where the airlines have their counters. Since last week, following requests from the airlines, the airport authorities are allowing passengers to enter the terminal through both lanes of each gate. “Now, we are keeping the cubicles in between the two lanes to check the documents. So, the queues are divided into two at each gate,” said airport director Kaushik Bhattacharya. But, on Monday afternoon, Metro saw long queues at gate numbers 3A and 3B. But the queue at the other two gates for domestic passengers were smaller. “Most passengers who don’t have smartphones and e-boarding passes are going to their respective airline counters at Gate 3C. After collecting their boarding passes, they are queueing up at Gates 3A and B for entering the terminal. This is creating a congestion,” said Bhattacharya. Airport sources said although airport personnel are supposed to redirect passengers to other gates, often this was not being done. “We have requested the airport authorities to allow these passengers to get their boarding passes at the check-in counters like before. We have much space inside, compared to the small area at Gate 3C,” said an official of an airline. “But the authorities said civil aviation ministry guidelines do not allow it.” The airport authorities are also allowing domestic passengers to enter the terminal through Gates 4A and B, which are in the international section, during rush hours. “The step has been taken to ease the congestion,” the airport director said. Sources said the authorities had also made 500 trolleys available for passengers. The civil aviation ministry has said a few categories of passengers — such as elderly people, pregnant women and mothers travelling alone with infants — should be allowed to use trolleys. “But we were getting complaints from passengers about unavailability of trolleys and so we decided to have 500 trolleys for passengers to use,” said an official. The airport has about 3,000 trolleys.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-289
29-09-2020||Calcutta||Guardrails makes New Town artery dangerous||The stretch of the Major Arterial Road in New Town where a young man and a woman on a scooter were run over on Saturday night has a series of guardrails on the carriageway, which force vehicles to zigzag dangerously. The Telegraph visited the accident spot — near the Kolkata Gate intersection, where a pedestrian subway complex is being built — on Monday afternoon and found that guardrails painted in blue and white had swallowed a large part of the road space. The vehicles headed towards the airport from Sector V were not only having to take a sharp left turn at the intersection but also zigzag their way past the guardrails. The vehicles headed from the Unitech intersection towards the airport, too, had to zigzag through another set of guardrails. Both sets of vehicles were getting dangerously close to each other at the point where the two roads meet. Guardrails set up by police in the middle of roads in New Town to slow down vehicles and check accidents have become more of a traffic hazard as they are barely visible from a distance, said those who drive regularly through the township. Dipayan Mukherjee and Medha Paul, both employees of a multinational IT company, were headed towards the airport after dinner in New Town on a scooter on Saturday night when they were hit from behind by a truck near the intersection off Kolkata Gate. They were rushed to Bidhannagar Sub-divisional Hospital, where they were declared dead. A guard posted at the site where the pedestrian subway complex is being built said Mukherjee was trying to steer his two-wheeler past the guardrails when the truck hit them. Dhirtiman Sarkar, deputy commissioner, traffic, Bidhannagar commissionerate, said they were scanning footage of CCTV cameras placed at the next traffic crossing. “We have started a probe. A truck can be seen moving at a high speed at the next crossing. We are trying to track down the driver,” Sarkar said. Another officer of the commissionerate said guardrails often got covered in dust and grime of the road and that prevented drivers from identifying them from a distance. Most iron guardrails were coated in a thick layer of dust and some only had remnants of paint left, interspersed with large patches of rust. They easily blend into the backdrop of trees and shrubs planted along the median divider. “They are very difficult to spot from a distance. At night, they suddenly loom up right in front, forcing a motorist to either hit the brakes hard or swerve,” said Sukriti Bhattacharya, who lives in New Town.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-289
29-09-2020||Calcutta||Rain hope pinned on distant system||September 2020 looked set to become the driest September in the city in at least five years but a cyclonic circulation brewing thousands of miles away can change the course, the Met office has said. Between September 1 and 27, Calcutta has received just 162mm of rain, registering a 45 per cent deficit. The average volume of rain September brings in Calcutta is around 310mm, said a Met official. September 2017, which saw 182mm of rain in the city, is a close contender for the driest tag. The monsoon trough extended over Digha on Monday afternoon. The trough led to the formation of scattered clouds in and around the city. The Met office predicted a thunderstorm in Calcutta in the afternoon, but all the city got was drizzle. “The monsoon trough, by itself, is unlikely to trigger much rain. But a cyclonic circulation is located over the Gulf of Thailand…. It is expected to advance to the Bay of Bengal…. If it follows the expected trajectory, the system should reach the Bengal coast in 48 hours and trigger some rain,” said G.K. Das, the director of India Meteorological Department, Calcutta. September is normally drier than July and August in Calcutta. But the month usually sees some rain-bearing systems over the Bay of Bengal. The retreating monsoon winds — October 10 is the normal date of withdrawal of the monsoon from Calcutta — often triggers downpour in the city in September. Thanks to rain-bearing systems over the Bay, September 2019 saw nearly 390mm of rain in Calcutta, registering a 25 per cent surplus. A low-pressure system over the northeast Bay of Bengal was supposed to move towards Gangetic Bengal and trigger heavy rain in the city last Sunday (September 20). But the system took a northwest turn along the Odisha coast, triggering only light showers in Calcutta on Sunday night and Monday morning. The past few days were cloudy but not rainy. The minimum relative humidity — a measure of moisture content in the air in the driest part of the day — has been above 70 per cent for the three days before climbing down slightly to around 60 per cent on Monday and Sunday. On September 25, it was a staggering 81 per cent. The high humidity range meant the maximum temperature felt four or five times higher than it actually was.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-289
29-09-2020||Calcutta||Action on harassment sends a signal: Mimi ||Police on Monday submitted the chargesheet against a yellow taxi driver arrested earlier this month based on actor-turned-MP Mimi Chakraborty’s complaint that he had passed lewd remarks at her. Deba Yadav, 32, has been charged with outraging modesty, stalking, and causing outrage of modesty through words and gestures. The charges carry a maximum punishment of five years in jail. Cops submitted the chargesheet once Chakraborty recorded her statement before a magistrate in court and visited the jail for a test identification parade. “Some people might feel this whole thing happened so quickly because I am an MP. It is not like that. I went through all the procedures that one goes through. This episode sends out a signal… no one can get away by making lewd gestures or teasing women,” she said. The driver passed lewd remarks and made gestures at Chakraborty when her car pulled up next to his at a traffic signal near Ballygunge phari on September 13, she had alleged in her complaint with Gariahat police station the same day. She was headed home to Kasba when she stepped out of her car to confront Yadav but had to let him go as the two cars had blocked the road and triggered a snarl. Yadav was arrested in Panchanangram the next day. He is still to get bail. “Since we filed the chargesheet before he could secure bail, we will request custody trial to set an example,” an officer said. The court will go through the charges slapped by the police and the evidence submitted before framing charges — either by adding or reducing or maintaining the existing charges — based on which the trial will commence.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-289
29-09-2020||Calcutta||At 74 %, CLAT  turnout clocks a dip||Close to 74 per cent of applicants took the Common Law Admission Test (CLAT) 2020 on Monday for entry to national law schools, N.K. Chakrabarti, the vice-chancellor of the National University of Juridical Sciences, said. The attendance was “less” than previous years because of the pandemic, Chakrabarti said. He is the CLAT nodal officer as well. Till last year, close to 90 per cent of applicants would take the test. The exam was held at nine centres in Bengal. The CLAT 2020 was initially scheduled for September 7. It was rescheduled for September 28 because of a complete lockdown in the state on September 7. Several applicants in Bengal had requested the Consortium of National Law Universities to reschedule the exam date saying they might find it difficult to reach the exam centres if it were to be held on a day of complete lockdown. Faizan Mustafa, the vice-chancellor of NALSAR University of Law, Hyderabad, and a member of the executive committee of the consortium, told Metro after the exam on Monday that at the national level 86.20 per cent of those who had downloaded the admit cards took the test. At least 688,833 candidates in the country had downloaded the admit cards. The number was 3,000 in Bengal. Close to 2,000 were supposed to take the test at the Calcutta centre at TCS Gitobitan in Salt Lake’s Sector V. At some centres in Howrah and Hooghly, the attendance was close to 80 per cent. The exam was conducted “successfully” at all the centres and no centre reported any technical glitch, Chakrabarti said. Candidates had to give a declaration at the time of entering the centre that they were not infected with Covid, Chakrabarti said. Every candidate had been asked to bring their own masks and sanitisers and they had to reach the venue an hour before the exam. The two-hour test started at 2pm.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-289
29-09-2020||Calcutta||IIEST board concerned over project delay||The board of governors at IIEST has expressed concern over the delay in the construction of a hostel and an academic complex six years after the Shibpur tech school was upgraded to its present status, said a member of the board. The board – the highest decision making body of the Indian Institute of Engineering Science and Technology – adopted a resolution at a recent meeting expressing its concern over the delay. “The two most important projects, the construction of hostel and academic complex, which were linked with the upgradation of this oldest engineering institute are still pending after the passing of six years of transformation,” the resolution reads. The chairperson of the board, Vasudev K. Aatre, requested the HRD ministry representatives on the panel to resolve all pending issues at the earliest so that the institute could concentrate “more on academics and research and fulfill the purpose for which this institute was converted to IIEST”. The Bengal Engineering and Science University was transformed to IIEST on March 4, 2014. The board had in a meeting in 2018 resolved that a lecture theatre complex and a hostel that could accommodate 1,000 boys would be constructed on the Shibpur campus at a cost of Rs 283.6 crore. “The proposals were vetted by the institute’s finance committee, following which the board had on July 19 last year decided to forward them to the HRD ministry for approval,” an IIEST official said. Prior to this, in June 2019, IIEST director Parthasarathi Chakrabarti had met HRD minister Ramesh Nishank Pokhriyal and asked for funds to build the hostel and the academic complex. "Funds have not yet come,” the official said. Director Chakarabarti told Metro that the chairperson would soon write to the ministry about the pending issues. “Once he writes, we hope the ministry will respond,” the director said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-289
29-09-2020||Calcutta||Tallah and Majerhat bridges get new life at 58||Two bridges coming up at two ends of Calcutta are set to ease traffic movement once they are commissioned. The bridges — both 58 years old — one in the north and one in the south had to be pulled down: the Majherhat bridge, after a portion of it collapsed in September 2018; and the Tallah bridge after cracks surfaced. The Telegraph gives the low-down on the bridges. The 750m-long bridge will connect BT Road with Shyambazar in the north over the rail tracks at Tallah. Current status The foundation work for building the bridge has begun. The old structure was demolished between March and April, ahead of the 75-day target set for the demolition. L&T engineers have started fixing piles nearly 80-90m into the ground to build the foundation of the structure. The depth of the foundation for this bridge is almost four times that of a house, according to civil engineers. Once the piles are concreted, each of the piles will be covered with a pile cap. This will complete the first phase of the construction. In the second phase, pillars will be built over the pile caps as part of a “sub-structure” of the bridge, which will be a bowstring arch steel structure. Challenges Eight pipes of various diametres, ranging between 30ft and 72ft, are located under the ground. These pipes bring water from Palta to the Tallah tank and from the tank carry potable water to the entire city. Any damage to any one of these pipes will spell disaster — either Tallah and adjoining Paikpara will be flooded or the city will go without water for days. “Prior to the demolition we had to fix the exact location of each of these underground pipes and create a tunnel to physically run a check on them. We repeated the same exercise all over again before the start of the piling work,” a PWD official said. There is a design challenge, too. The width of the main deck of the bridge will be a little more than double that of the old bridge, around 24m. But the width of the approach roads will be almost the same (11m) as it was earlier for want of space. “The gradients have to be carefully calculated so that there is no jerk when vehicles ascend or descend the bridge. It will be a gradual tapering on the sides,” the PWD official said. Design plan The new bridge will be a four-lane structure with a load-bearing capacity almost four times that of the old one (around 400 tonnes). There will be footpaths on either side, each measuring 1.5m. Expected date of completion: January 2022 Project cost: Rs 348 crore The 650m-long bridge over the tracks at Majherhat will connect New Alipore with Mominpore in south Calcutta. Current status The cable-stayed bridge will have the main deck held by 84 cables, which have been brought from Switzerland. The work of erecting these cables began on September 19 and is likely to be completed by October 10, about 12 days before Durga Puja. “Once the cables have been erected we will begin casting the concrete crash barriers of the bridge. The barriers will be allowed to rest for some time for strengthening. Then bitumen will be laid on the bridge,” a PWD official said. This is the most crucial part with a lot of calculations involved, according to engineers. “We will have to study how the cables function in bearing stress while holding the bare deck slab and compare it when bitumen has been laid on the deck,” the PWD official said. “The design has a theoretical aspect and a practical aspect… the two will have to match.” A team of experts from the railways and IIT Bombay will ascertain whether the two aspects are matching or there are discrepancies. Based on their observation, the stress-bearing capacity of the cables will be checked and fine-tuned, if needed. In between, the four service roads around the bridge will be readied and the entire structure will get a coat of paint after lights have been installed. Design plan The four-lane bridge will have a load-bearing capacity of 350 tonnes against the previous 150 tonnes. The bridge will be the first cable-stayed bridge built over rail tracks by the PWD in Bengal. Expected date of completion: Just ahead of Diwali Project cost: Rs 246 crore||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-289
