30-09-2020||Calcutta||From most used Emojis 😷 in Bios to most Right Swiped Neighborhoods: Kolkata, this is how you Tinder ||There’s a large, important, cultural shift happening - one we’ve seen for a while in Gen Z, but it’s now expanding because of COVID-19. The pandemic has accelerated a generational shift in the way we date and meet new people, and we’ve learned that connection is enduring, and despite social distancing, Gen-Z will find a way to sustain it. While dating and socializing out of quarantine looks different around the country right now, hanging out on Tinder is showing no signs of letting up, and members are letting their profiles do the talking. Here’s everything that has been happening on Tinder in Kolkata. 2020 Made me Realise: Top 5 most adopted Prompts in Kolkata To help members better introduce themselves to potential matches, Tinder recently released Prompts, a new in-app feature that lets members respond to questions or finish a sentence to display on their profile. Of all available Prompts, ‘2020 MADE ME REALISE’ had the highest adoption, signaling how much our daily lives have changed from every perspective--including how we gauge compatibility with potential matches on Tinder. Most Right Swiped Neighborhoods in Kolkata Tinder analyzed data Kolkata to find out where members were getting the most Right Swipes. Don’t forget to increase your distance, since what even is physical proximity anymore? Most Right Swiped Emojis 🔥 Emojis help members visually express themselves, especially in a time where social distancing has us online longer and finding creative ways to stay connected. Tinder pulled the top 10 emojis used in bios by members in Kolkata, and yes the Face Mask Emoji has made the list! Welcome to 2020. Most Right Swiped Cities in India In this 2020 reality, where are Tinder members Swiping Right the most? Kolkata slides in at number 2 of the top 5 most Right Swiped cities in India.  Top 5 Passport Destinations in India Tinder Passport is typically a paid feature for Tinder Plus & Gold subscribers. Members can search by city or drop a pin on the map and you can begin liking, matching, and chatting with Tinder members in a destination of their choice. They can navigate between their current location and new destinations. This was made free for all Tinder members at the beginning of lockdown.) Tinder made its Passport™ feature free through the early months of lockdown. By allowing members to temporarily change their location, Tinder Passport lets them connect with matches all over the country. Because social distancing doesn’t mean you can’t still connect with people virtually. The majority of Tinder members are using Passport to change location within the country, with Kolkata coming in at the 4th most frequent location members Passport into. Most Right-Swiped Jobs in Kolkata Tinder’s resident Psychologist, Sonali Gupta says, “The career choice can say a lot about a person's aspirations, their lifestyle and it also offers a glimpse into some of the qualities that a person may have, that led them to choose a particular profession. That's why career choice becomes a possible filter when it comes to choosing who you may want to connect with virtually.” Methodology The information included in this campaign represents overall Tinder trends, not the personal information of any specific, identified individual or member.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-288
30-09-2020||Calcutta||Calcutta High Court inaugurates a virtual training programme||Calcutta High Court Chief Justice T.B.N. Radhakrishnan inaugurates a virtual training programme for members of West Bengal Judicial Academy in New Town on Monday. In-person training is not possible because of the Covid pandemic. So the academy initiated the online programme, said Chief Justice Radhakrishnan. Justice Sanjib Banerjee, the academy’s chairman, Justice I.P. Mukerji and several other judges of the high court were present on the occasion. The judicial academy, controlled and managed by the Calcutta High Court administration, holds training courses for officials of the law department, subordinate court judges, registrars, court officers and government-panelled lawyers.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-288
30-09-2020||Calcutta||Calcutta metro disrupted for hours after snag ||Metro services were disrupted for nearly six hours from afternoon till the end of the day's operations on Tuesday after an air-conditioned rake got stuck at Netaji (Kudghat) station. Snags often tripped Metro before the service was suspended in March because of Covid-19. The service resumed two weeks ago. On Tuesday, the Dum Dum-bound train was at Kudghat station around 2pm when the snag occurred, said a Metro official. The train had to be vacated as the snag could not be fixed immediately. But little did officials anticipate that the train would remain stuck beyond the end of the day’s operations, after which it was taken to the Noapara car shed. Initially, Metro ran a truncated service between Noapara and Maidan, where there is a provision for trains to take a U-turn. Later, the truncated service was extended till Tollygunge. Trains did not run between Tollygunge and New Garia for the rest of the day. The snag was traced to a third rail current collector — an equipment attached to the undercarriage of the train that collects power from the third rail of a Metro track. Each compartment in a rake typically has four such current collectors on either side. “The pad of a current collector was damaged. It was dragged for around 300m and further damaged the other three collectors of the rake on the same side. The power supply from the third rail was disrupted,” said a Metro official. Before the pandemic, Metro used to run 288 trains every weekday and the average daily passenger load was well above 600,000. Back then, most glitches were attributed to an ageing and overstretched fleet. But since the service resumed on September 14, Metro had been running 110 trains every day. It was increased to 116 on Monday. The average passenger count started from 20,000 and is yet to reach one-tenth of what it was. “Today’s glitch cannot be linked to the number of trips made by the train. There is a possibility that the current collector came in contact with a foreign object,” said the Metro official. The train that got stranded on Tuesday is one of the ne-wer lots built at the Integral Coach Factory in Perambore, Chennai. “There were some issues with the new rakes. But when the services were suspended (because of Covid), most issues were addressed. Tuesday’s problem is a new one. We will conduct a detailed examination to ascertain the cause,” Metro general manager Manoj Joshi said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-288
30-09-2020||Calcutta||Reimbursement shock for coronavirus insured||A medical insurance policy launched for Covid-19 has found many takers but hospitals say the expectation that is driving the sale — that the policy will cover the entire treatment cost — is often proving to be misplaced. The brisk sale of Corona Kavach stands in contrast to a drop in the renewal of regular health insurance policies of some companies, which are getting requests from policy-holders to defer the deadline for payment of their annual premiums. Corona Kavach was launched on July 10 by the Insurance Regulatory and Development Authority. Till September 28, National Insurance Company Ltd sold around 60,000 policies across India, of which 22,000 were sold in Calcutta, said officials. The company earned approximately Rs 31 crore from premiums paid for the product by insurers. Around Rs 14 crore came from those who took out the policy in Calcutta, the officials said. In comparison, Arogya Sanjeevani, a general health insurance policy launched by the company on April 1, has found as few as 331 takers till date across India. “We have not seen this kind of response for any other health policy. As against this, there is a 10 per cent drop in renewal of some other health policies. Some of the customers have shifted to other companies because of lower premiums, while others are yet to make their annual payments because of finan-cial distress caused by the Covid-19 pandemic,” said Saurav Kariwala, assistant manager (medical), National Insurance Company Ltd, Calcutta. Other insurance companies, too, said they were doing brisk business with Corona Kavach. Gariahat resident Debshankar Sinha said he had several health insurance policies for him and his wife and son. The insured amount for each is Rs 5 lakh. “I bought the Corona Kavach policy of Rs 5 lakh each for a duration of nine-and-a-half months. The terms of the policy say there are no cappings. In other health insurance policies, there are cappings on bed charges and other expenditures,” said Sinha. “I opted for this policy because there are no such cappings. Besides, it also provides coverage for getting treated for Covid at home.” Insurance company officials said that unlike other health insurance policies, most people were making their own decisions to buy Corona Kavach and not taking advice from their agents. “We are observing that most people are buying the policy online after reading about its benefit. They are not depending on agents, unlike for other policies,” said Prabir Mukherjee, general manager, medical, eastern region, Star Health and Allied Insurance. The company, he said, has so far processed 42 Corona Kavach claims in Calcutta. An official of another private insurance company said the denial of claims by insurance companies for Covid patients had made many people apprehensive about whether they would get enough reimbursements for Covid treatment. “Normal health insurance policies are now covering Covid treatment as well. Inadmissible amounts in a bill of a Covid patient vary between 10 and 15 per cent, which include some consumables. The concern expressed by Covid patients and their families is about the long hospital stay, which raises the bill,” said R. Venkatesh, regional director, eastern region, Narayana Health. “Earlier, the inadmissible amount was much more but now some consumables are covered,” he said. According to Venkatesh, in normal policies a patient can get reimbursement of up to one per cent of the sum insured as bed charge per day for non-ICU treatment and up to two per cent for ICU treatment. “But for Corona Kavach there are no such cappings,” he said. Many hospitals like AMRI and ones run by Narayana Health are yet to get any patient with Corona Kavach but those who have said in-surance companies were denying payment under the policy. “We had two patients whose claims under Corona Kavach policy were rejected,” said Sudipta Mitra, the chief executive of Peerless Hospi-tal. One of the patients was admitted on September 15 and discharged on Tuesday. He suffers from chronic renal disease and undergoes dialysis. “The private insurance company denied the claim under Corona Kavach because they said the patient did not disclose his renal ailment. The patient then filed his claim under a general health insurance policy of the same company and got the reimbursement,” said Mitra. “As for the other patient, the insurance company approved reimbursement after a rejection.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-288
30-09-2020||Calcutta||Presidency to start classes on October 1||Regular classes for the students of Presidency University in the intermediate semesters will start on October 1 and “the mode of teaching-learning process may be designed by the departments in an efficient and innovative manner in order to maintain ‘social distancing’, safety and health of students,” says a notice. A notice issued by the registrar said one of such effective modes may be distant-digital mode, which Jadavpur University is following. Classes for the incoming first-year students both in undergraduate and postgraduate level are unlikely to start before the first week of December, as was discussed in Sunday’s virtual meeting education minister Partha Chatterjee had with the vice-chancellors. As in-person classes cannot be held because of Covid-19, the Presidency authorities have advised the departments to adopt alternative modes and methods in compliance with the requirements of the choice-based credit system, said an official of the university. Presidency vice-chancellor Anuradha Lohia said the teachers could take live online classes so long as the students did not encounter any connectivity issues and had adequate access to the devices. “We have left it to the teachers to devise the method. It could be live online classes or the distant digital mode, dealing with a particular real-time situation,” Lohia told Metro. Distant digital model will entail uploading the lectures and other classroom demonstrations on the university’s central repository, which the students will download according to their convenience. Lohia said that if required, lectures could be uploaded on YouTube and links shared with students. Classes of the previous semesters could not be completed at Presidency as the Covid outbreak forced the authorities to shut down the campus on March 16. “The syllabus has been structured in a way that the unfinished modules of the previous semesters will be taken care of once classes start on October 1,” a teacher said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-288
30-09-2020||Calcutta||Raze Vivekananda Road flyover: Panel||A committee appointed to decide the fate of the Vivekananda Road flyover has recommended its demolition, government officials said on Tuesday. V.K. Raina, a bridge engineer and the external expert on the committee, made a presentation at Nabanna on Saturday in the presence of some senior officials. A 41m-long deck slab of the flyover under construction had collapsed on March 31, 2016, killing 26 people. The structure has since remained untouched as the government could not decide whether to build the rest of the flyover or pull down the entire structure. Poor materials used in the construction, faulty design and some “very sharp” bends were among the factors cited while recommending the flyover’s demolition, an official who was at Saturday’s meeting said. The government had consulted Raina for the Tallah bridge and followed his recommendation and pulled it down. He was appointed to the committee earlier this month to look into the Vivekananda Road flyover. “The committee has submitted its report. While giving the presentation, Raina said retrofitting was not possible. The flyover has to be pulled down… there has to be a new design and a new flyover if the government wants a flyover there,” a government official said. Besides Raina, engineers from the public works department and the Calcutta Metropolitan Development Authority are part of the committee. “It is a difficult situation. It will be unsafe to keep the flyover. At the same time, its demolition will be very difficult… the job has to be executed with extreme care,” a committee member said. A portion of Vivekananda Road, Kali Krishna Tagore Street and Strand Road, all of which are under the flyover, criss-cross the wholesale markets of Posta where loading and unloading of goods from trucks continue throughout the day. A bridge engineer working for a private infrastructure company said the design meant the size and thickness of steel plates being used, the nature and position of welding two plates, and the strength of the bolts used in joining the plates among others. All of these are decided based on rigorous mathematics, which was not followed in case of this flyover, the engineer, who was part of a team inspecting the flyover, said. “I have done my job and submitted the report. Now it is up to the government to take the final call. The committee members have signed the report and it has been handed over to senior government officials,” Raina told Metro on Tuesday. “It is a short report of 15-20 pages but it has an attachment of 200 pages where I have done mathematical analysis in support of my recommendation.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-288
30-09-2020||Calcutta||Iskcon Calcutta temple to reopen ||Iskcon is set to reopen its Calcutta temple from October 1 with precautionary measures against Covid-19 in place. Visitors will be allowed from 5pm to 8pm and wearing  masks is mandatory. Prasad, flowers and tulsi will not be distributed and only eight people will be allowed at a time. “We were getting requests to reopen the temple but we could not do so,” said Iskcon Calcutta spokesperson Radharaman Das. Iskcon’s Chandradaya temple in Mayapur reopened on September 9.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-288
30-09-2020||Calcutta||App-based cycles back in New Town||App-based bicycles made a comeback in New Town on Tuesday. A cycle-sharing system had become popular in the township but the aggregator had to stop the service a year back because many users were not returning the cycles or dumping them in canals. The new cycles, of which 100 have landed in New Town, can be picked up by commuters from as many as 21 docking stations, an official of the New Town Kolkata Development Authority (NKDA) said. On Tuesday, urban development and municipal affairs minister Firhad Hakim inaugurated a docking station near the base of Kolkata Gate. It is one of the five stations operational — in front of the New Town bus stand, near the Reliance Fresh outlet, outside Axis Mall, near Novotel and off Kolkata Gate. Hakim, taking a cue from the earlier misuse of bikes, urged residents to protest if they saw the cycles being dumped or taken away. “Cycling is the greenest form of transport. And unlike in Calcutta, where we could not find space for cycling bays, New Town has existing infrastructure (for cyclists) and we want to promote it,” the minister said. The NKDA has partnered with Chartered Bike, an Ahmedabad-based company, to launch the service. The business model, as well as the philosophy behind the bicycle renting scheme, is modelled on the ones followed by app-based bicycle sharing services in pedal-friendly cities like Paris, Copenhagen and Amsterdam. A user in New Town has to download the “Chartered Bike” mobile app on a smartphone. A one-time registration fee of Rs 100 is charged and it is redeemable, said a spokesperson for the company. To unlock a cycle one needs to scan the QR code on the fender. In case someone wants to stop somewhere - for example to buy groceries or vegetables - he/she has to click on the “parking” option on the app. At the end of the ride, the rider needs to choose the “end ride” option, after which the payment can be made through mobile wallets as well as the debit or credit cards. The cycle has to be returned to any of the docking stations after the ride. As an introductory offer, the first half hour of the ride will be free. From the 31st to the 60th minute, the rider will be charged Rs 5.90. For the next 30 minutes, one has to shell out Rs 11.80 and thereafter, Rs 17.70 every hour. NKDA chairman Debashis Sen said 400 battery-powered cycles were on their way. Bidhannagar police commissioner Mukesh said: “We will not allow bicycles on flyovers.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-288
30-09-2020||Calcutta||Family loses Rs 6 lakh to job cheats, three held in Calcutta||A man spent more than Rs 6 lakh to get his son a government clerical job but realised he had been cheated when he landed up at what he thought would be his son’s office — Khadya Bhavan. Three people have been arrested in this connection. Police said they took the money from the Murshidabad-based family by promising to get a family member a job in the state government’s food department, which has its headquarters at Khadya Bhavan in the New Market area. The fraud came to the fore when Mohammad Nuruddin Sheikh and his son Abdul Hadi Sheikh reached Khadya Bhavan on Mirza Galib Street on Monday and realised they had been cheated when the documents they showed at the office were not recognised. The two reported the matter to New Market police station. Officers tracked down the men with the help of the mobile numbers they had used to contact Sheikh, the police said. Ramprasad Ghosh, 29, a resident of Krishnanagar, Ajit Kumar Majhi, 34, and Prabir Kumar Das, both Dum Dum residents, have been booked for cheating, criminal breach of trust and criminal conspiracy. “People should understand that it is better to encourage their children to study and secure a government job on merit instead of bribing someone,” an officer in Lalbazar said. “Hundreds of people fall prey to such frauds by touts.” Despite running awareness campaigns against such cheats, people still get cheated and they end up paying money to those making false promises of a government job, the police said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-288
30-09-2020||Calcutta||SOP ahead for hand sanitiser near Durga Puja pandal ||Hand sanitisers are highly inflammable because of the high alcohol content and can be a direct fire hazard when kept near puja pandals. The matter was discussed during the Durga Puja coordination meeting between utility service providers at Lalbazar on Tuesday and it was decided that a handling protocol was necessary for sanitisers. The state fire and emergency services department has decided to issue a detailed advisory on storing and handling hand sanitisers near puja pandals this year. Representatives of the city police, the Calcutta Municipal Corporation, the PWD, the Calcutta Metropolitan Development Authority, the state fire and emergency services department and of the CESC were present at the meeting. The most significant topic of discussion turned out to be storing and using hand sanitisers without causing any fire hazard to the pandal. Jagmohan, the director-general (fire and emergency services), told Metro that the department had been instructed to prepare a standard operating procedure regarding the use and storage of hand sanitisers at puja pandals. “We will include these points in the leaflets and advisories that are issued every year from the fire department,” he said. During the Durga Puja coordination meeting at Netaji Indoor Stadium last week, chief minister Mamata Banerjee had asked all puja organisers to stock hand sanitisers and to give them to visitors to the pandals, at least half a kilometre away. Several puja organisers said they were making arrangements for close to 50 litres of hand sanitisers a day during Durga Puja. “According to the chief minister’s instructions, we will keep enough stock of hand sanitisers to offer to everyone who visits our pandal and masks to those without one. We will keep a separate booth for this around 300m from our pandal,” Manoj Shaw, a member of Mudiali Club, said. Puja organisers should ensure the sanitiser stock is not kept in the vicinity of the pandal where lamps are lighted or where electrical circuits are aplenty, a fire department official said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-288
30-09-2020||Calcutta||Partha Chatterjee asks power firms to ensure exam supply||Education minister Partha Chatterjee has asked CESC and the state power utility to ensure uninterrupted power supply when college and university students write their final exams between October1 and 18. “Advisory issued to CESC and WBSEDCL to provide uninterrupted power during examinations from 1st October to 18th,” Chatterjee said in a tweet on Tuesday. More than 1.1 million undergraduate and postgraduate students will take the final-year exams across the state. The exams will not be held on campus because of the pandemic. Questions will be uploaded on the websites of colleges and students will have to mail back scanned copies of answer scripts within half an hour of writing the test in keeping with an UGC advisory. “A student will not be able to access the questions and upload the answers in the absence of uninterrupted power supply. This prompted the minister to intervene,” an education department official said. CESC supplies power in Calcutta and neighbouring areas. The state power utility, WBSEDCL, supplies power to the rest of Bengal. The UGC had in a letter to Calcutta University on September 16 specified that the duration of the final exams can be reduced to two hours from three hours and that the university “may consider to give half an hour or so for downloading the question paper and uploading the answer sheets”, another official said. “Now it is a time-bound process. Earlier, in the event of power failure, a student would have abundant time 9 24hours) to complete the process. Now he has only half an hour. Therefore the issue of uninterrupted power supply has become crucial,” the official said. Avijit Ghosh, the CESC vice-president (distribution services), said the company would take adequate steps in terms of generation and distribution of power so that students don’t face any inconvenience. Bengal power minister Sobhandeb Chattopadhyay said he would tell the chairman of the state power utility to ensure that steps are taken in the interest of students. “CESC always provides uninterrupted power. We have gone through the tweets of the education minister and we will take all possible steps to provide uninterrupted power during this phase as well,” CESC vice-president Ghosh said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-289
