01-01-2022||Uneven roads of Darlaghat||Potholes dot roads||— Gyan Chand, DarlaghatNew school building needed There is an urgent need to construct a new building for the government school at Diur village in Chamba. The old building, which had become unsafe, has been demolished but the construction work has not yet started for a new one. It should be commenced at the earliest.— Residents, DiurIs a civic issue bothering you? Are you agitated over the lack of concern? Is there something that you feel needs to be highlighted? Or a picture which in your opinion ought to be seen by many, and not just you?The Tribune invites its readers to have their say. Email at:hpreadersfeedback @tribunemail.com||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/potholes-dot-roads-356807
01-01-2022||---||IGMC resident docs end strike||Shimla, December 31The resident doctors of the Indira Gandhi Medical College (IGMC) and Hospital withdrew their strike this afternoon and resumed their duties. They had gone on strike yesterday afternoon in protest against the “manhandling of peacefully protesting doctors by the Delhi Police”.“Following a message from the Federation of Resident Doctors Association, we decided to take back our strike and resumed duties at 3 pm today,” said Dr Manoj Maitan, president of the IGMC Residents Doctors Association. As several doctors are on winter vacation, the resident doctors’ strike would have paralysed the functioning of the hospital. Many surgeries were cancelled yesterday after the resident doctors went on strike.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/igmc-resident-docs-end-strike-356806
01-01-2022||Government degree colleges||Winter break in colleges from today||550 take part in Science CongressThe Himachal Pradesh Council for Science, Technology and Environment (HIMCOSTE) organised a state-level Children's Science Congress from December 28 to 31. About 550 students from across the state participated in the event during which scientific project report, science activity corner, maths Olympiad, science quiz and innovative science model events were organised successfully for Class VI-XII students. The activities were organised over three days, in which 73 students were declared winners. Of these, 16 winners of scientific project reports would participate in the national-level Children's Science Congress.Kullu Polytechnic wins model contestA state-level working model and project competition was held at Government Polytechnic, Sundernagar, in which 26 projects from across the state were displayed. Kullu Polytechnic secured the first position for its project named IOT Based Energy Meter, made by semester V electrical engineering students under the guidance of JD Sharma, Head of Department.Programme on cleanliness at HPUThe Department of Hindi, HPU, Shimla, organised a programme on cleanliness on Thursday. Head of Department Paan Singh urged the students to keep their surroundings and environment clean. Programme convener Naresh Kumar said the department would continue to hold such programmes in the future too.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/winter-break-in-colleges-from-today-356804
01-01-2022||Our Correspondent||Two new courses at Una college||Una, December 31The state government has given permission for starting two new courses at Himcapes’ college situated in Badhera village in Haroli subdivision.The only college in the cooperative sector in the state at present is having LLB and B.Sc. (Nursing) courses. In a press note issued here, the college authorities said that 30 seats each had been sanctioned for the two courses.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/two-new-courses-at-una-college-356803
01-01-2022||Mandi||Jaipur tourist killed in mishap||A 26-year-old tourist died while five other persons were injured critically in a road accident at Rahla under Aut police station in Mandi district last night. The deceased was identified as Sugrim Arora, a native of Jaipur in Rajasthan.The police said the vehicle skidded off the road and fell into a deep gorge. Mandi SP Shalini Agnihotri said a case had been registered and investigation was underway. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/jaipur-tourist-killed-in-mishap-356801
01-01-2022||Una||Ropar girl ends life, three booked||Parminder Singh, a resident of Gambhirpur Dher in Ropar district of Punjab, has complained to the Una police that his sister Mandeep Kaur allegedly committed suicide by consuming some poisonous substance at her aunt’s house at Poona village in the district on Thursday. He has alleged that relatives of her paramour, whom she wanted to marry, were against their proposed matrimony. The district police have booked three persons in the case.Sources in the Una police said the complainant has alleged that Mandeep was in love with Paramjeet Singh, a resident of Bhanam village near Nangal, for the past four years and the duo wanted to marry. However, Paramjeet’s sister Gurmeet Kaur and her husband were against it. The Una police have booked Paramjeet Singh, Gurmeet Kaur and her husband. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/ropar-girl-ends-life-three-booked-356799
01-01-2022||Shimla||87 new Covid cases, one death in Himachal Pradesh||As many as 87 Covid cases were reported in the state today, taking the tally to 228,857. Besides, one person died of the virus in Kangra. The highest number of 36 cases was recorded in Kangra, followed by 14 in Solan. The number of active cases rose to 466. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/87-new-covid-cases-one-death-in-himachal-pradesh-356798
01-01-2022||Chamba||Kangra MP seeks report on Pathankot NH||Kangra Lok Sabha MP Kishan Kapoor has directed the NHAI Executive Engineer to prepare a detailed project report regarding the upgrade of the works under the Chakki (Pathankot)-Chamba-Bharmour National Highway.He gave these instructions to the NHAI officials while presiding over a meeting of the District Development Coordination and Monitoring Committee in Chamba on Thursday. In the meeting, DC Rana said a joint inspection had been done by the officials regarding the construction of a bypass at Banikhet. The departmental process regarding land acquisition had started, the DC said. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/kangra-mp-seeks-report-on-pathankot-nh-356796
01-01-2022||Shimla||Recast merit list for jr office asst posts: Himachal HC||The Himachal HC on Friday set aside the decision of the HP Public Service Commission (HPSSC) to stop the selection procedure for the posts of junior office assistant (post code JAO 556).A Division Bench of Justice Tarlok Singh Chauhan and Justice Satyen Vaidya directed the HPSSC to recast the merit list for JAO 556 by including all categories of candidates, as was done for earlier posts on the decision taken by the government in August/ September 2017.It passed the order on a bunch of pleas filed by candidates on the ground that the state had formed different sets of rules for the same post. The court directed the state that selection be made by taking into account the entire number of vacancies advertised. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/recast-merit-list-for-jr-office-asst-posts-himachal-hc-356794
01-01-2022||Shimla||Continue GST relief: Industries Minister Bikram Singh||Industries Minister Bikram Singh today requested the GST Council to consider extending the relief till 2027, as the issue of tax rationalisation needed to be looked at .The minister attended the 46th meeting of the GST Council presided over by Union Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman in Delhi.Bikram said promoting investment in the textile sector was the need of the hour. “The inverted duty structure has an important factor that discourages investments in the textile sector though it has a great potential to generate employment,” he said.The council is likely to meet in the first week of March to take a decision. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/continue-gst-relief-industries-minister-bikram-singh-356792
01-01-2022||Solan||Special industrial package extended to 3 firms||A customised industrial package has been extended to three companies, promising a slew of exemptions.To encourage investors, the Cabinet sub-committee meeting held on December 3 approved various incentives for two new units and the expansion of an existing one under the customised industrial package.These units include Rs 850-crore Kinvan Private Limited, which will manufacture active pharmaceutical ingredient potassium carbonate and employ 475 persons. It has been offered land at Re 1 per sq m per annum for 95 years, besides exemption in stamp duty, registration fee and energy charges and power duty, etc.Another unit SMPP Ammunition Private Ltd will fetch an investment of Rs 3,000 crore and employ 5,000 persons directly and indirectly. A high-powered committee headed by the Secretary (Industries) and the Chief Minister had recommended the packages on November 17.Meanwhile, Indo Farm Equipment Limited already has two operational units at Baddi, having an investment of Rs 261 crore and 800 employees. The group is now setting up an automobile components factory for tractors and cranes, etc, where 30 to 40 ancillary units will be set up. It has pegged its land requirement at 60 acres to set up an auto park in the upcoming industrial area at Malkhumajra where it will generate employment for 3,360 persons, inclusive of the ancillary units.In its list of expectations, the company has demanded land at a nominal rate and stamp duty exemption, infrastructure support and channelling of a nullah at the site, power at concessional rates, exemption in electricity duty and tax rebate.As against the present rate of land allotment of Rs 4,000 per sq m, 30 acres has been approved at the rate of Rs 250 per sq m. Exemptions have also been provided in stamp duty, registration fee and power duty for five years.The existing investors have, however, raised objections to the largesse extended to a select few. They say plots should have been allotted to small investors, who are operating on rent.The newly carved out industrial area at Malkhumajra has 373 bighas, whose layout was being chalked out by the HP State Industrial Development Corporation, and offer letters had been given to some investors, said officials of the Industries Department. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/special-industrial-package-extended-to-3-firms-356790
01-01-2022||Mandi||HIMCARE cards to be made in Mandi till March 31: CMO||Chief Medical Officer (CMO) Dr Devender Sharma said a special campaign would be run in Mandi district till March 31 to provide benefits to those eligible under the Chief Minister Himachal Health Care Scheme. Under the plan, HIMCARE health cards would be made for all eligible people from January 1 to March 31, 2022.“The beneficiaries can make this card at their nearest Lokmitra centre or Common Service Centre, for which they will have to carry along their ration card, Aadhaar card and category certificate. They can themselves make the card by visiting www.hpsbys.in and uploading the required documents,” the CMO added.“No fee would be charged from BPL (Below Poverty Line) and MNREGA workers whose family members have worked for 50 days in 2021-22, roadside vendors and cleaners who are registered under the committee,” Dr Sharma said.Steps to followBeneficiaries can get the card made at the nearest Lokmitra or Common Service CentreThey need to carry their ration and Aadhaar cards along with the category certificatesThey can make the card by visiting www.hpsbys.in and uploading the required documents“For single women, Anganwadi workers, ASHA workers, contract workers, outsourcers, mid-day meal workers and handicapped persons, who are the head of the family, the fee has been fixed at Rs 365. Those who do not fall in any of the above categories and do not have any government employee/retired/pensioner spouse in their house,fee of Rs 1,000 has been fixed,” he stated.Government employees/ retired/ pensioner spouses whose children have turned 25 years old can also make their HIMCARE card under the health care scheme.“Now, a unique health ID is being created under Digital India. Individuals can get their ID made by themselves or at Lok Mitra Centre / Common Service Centre by linking Aadhar card and mobile number from January 1 to March 31. This ID will keep the health information and records of the individual safe,” the CMO said.“For more information, District Health Coordinator Vikas Kumar can be contacted on his mobile number 9816255492,” Dr Sharma added. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/himcare-cards-to-be-made-in-mandi-till-march-31-cmo-356788
01-01-2022||---||Rohru government college principal arrested for abuse, stalking||Shimla, December 31The suspended principal of Government Postgraduate College, Seema in Rohru, who was booked for sexual harassment, was today arrested after another student lodged a complaint of stalking against him.A student of the college complained that the principal repeatedly called her on her phone and even stalked her, following which another case, under Section 354-D of the IPC, was registered against him, said Rohru DSP Chaman Lal. He added the principal had been arrested.Some other students were also reportedly complaining about the misbehaviour of the principal, who was suspended by the Education Secretary for indulging in a vulgar talk with a girl student. Verbal complaints were received against the principal in the past, too, and disciplinary proceedings against him were being contemplated, said Higher Education Director Amarjeet Sharma.Following a complaint by the girl student and the women cell of the college, an FIR for sexual harassment and stalking was registered against the accused, Brajesh Chauhan, under Sections 354-A and 354-D of the IPC at the Rohru police station on December 25.The incident occurred when the student approached the principal for filling the scholarship form and the latter asked her to make him a phone call. When she called up the principal, he started an indecent conversation. Irritated by his behaviour, the girl recorded the conversation and complained to the women’s cell of the college. Objectionable comments about the staff were also made in the conversation.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/rohru-government-college-principal-arrested-for-abuse-stalking-356783
01-01-2022||Rajiv Mahajan||Announced last year, PWD office yet to come up at Chuwari||Nurpur, December 31The government is yet to fulfil people’s demand of opening the divisional offices of the Public Works Department (PWD) and the Irrigation and Public Health (IPH) Department at Chuwari in the neighbouring Bhatiyat constituency of Chamba district.Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur had announced a PWD divisional office at Chuwari on November 11 last year but nothing had been done so far.Public InconveniencedChamba, Dalhousie, Bharmour, Churah, Pangi, Salooni subdivisions have divisional offices of the PWD and the IPH Department. However, Bhatiyat subdivision doesn’t have these offices, and as a result locals face a lot of inconvenience.Bhatiyat subdivision has been attached with the divisional offices of the PWD and IPH Department at Dalhousie. People have to travel 50 km to 70 km to get their works done. Their time and money are wasted even for petty departmental works. Resentment is brewing among local residents against successive governments ‘neglecting’ the constituency, which was upgraded to a subdivision in 1997 with its headquarters at Chuwari.Local residents Sat Pal Thakur, Han Raj, Abhishek Chambial, Sanjay Kumar, Hitesh Bedi, Kanav Sharma, Ritesh Mahajan and Alam Singh lament that no government has fulfilled the long-standing demands of the people for a civil court and the divisional offices of the PWD and IPH Department, besides initiating work on the proposed depot of the Himachal Road Transport Corporation (HRTC).They say that the limits of Bhatiyat subdivision start from Hatli on the one side and Nainikhud on the other with a tough topography. “Travelling to Dalhousie is cumbersome, especially during the winter, time-consuming and expensive. The absence of the divisional offices of the PWD and the IPH Department is also hampering the execution of development works in the area,” they claim.Kusum Dhiman, chairperson of Bhatiyat nagar panchayat, has urged the CM to accelerate development of the neglected Bhatiyat constituency and fulfil his public announcement for the PWD divisional office at Sihunta made over a year ago.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/announced-last-year-pwd-office-yet-to-come-up-at-chuwari-356781
01-01-2022||Ambika Sharma||Renuka dam oustees await rehabilitation||Tribune News ServiceSolan, December 31The families displaced due to the Rs 6,946 crore Renukaji Dam project are awaiting their rehabilitation.As per the relief and rehabilitation policy of the project, the displaced families will be given houses to be constructed on the land acquired at four villages, namely Tokyo, Sainwala, Amboa and Chakli. They have expressed resentment against the delay in the issuance of the notification regarding the ‘project-affected families (PAFs)’ as well as the selection of land bought for their rehabilitation.The Renuka Dam Sangharsh Samiti has been raising the issues at various levels. Samiti chairman Yogendra Kapila says, “The land identified at Chakli and Amboa is on a slope while there are disputes regarding the land selected at Sainwala and unauthorised encroachments at Amboa village. The allotment of such land will aggravate our hardships”.The samiti is pressing for land in urban areas where they can earn some rental income. The delay in notifying the main PAF is another cause for concern as the families are yet to know how much land or compensation they will get. They have been raising the issue since 2007.Project officials say that 947.40 hectares have been acquired at four places for the construction of housing colonies. “A compensation of Rs 406 crore has already been paid as initial amount to the displaced while the notification of the PAFs is awaited,” says a senior manager of the project.He adds that though the land is on the slope at few places, given the topographical limitations of the area, the land selected is likely to be acquired.Sirmaur Deputy Commissioner RK Gautam says that the field staff of the Revenue Department is finalising the PAFs list by taking into account various factors and once completed it will be notified. Each PAF will be provided a house or a plot. The compensation will also be paid on the basis of the share in the shamlat landholding and the tax paid on it by a family, he adds.“Infrastructure facilities in the rehabilitation colonies such as water supply, sewerage, drainage, electricity, streets, community centre, green area, parks and approach paths/ roads will be provided under the project,” says Gautam. About the project||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/renuka-dam-oustees-await-rehabilitation-356778
01-01-2022||---||9 IAS officers shifted in Himachal Pradesh||Shimla, December 31The state government on Friday ordered the transfer and posting of nine IAS officers, including Onkar Chand Sharma, who has been made Principal Secretary-cum-Financial Commissioner (Revenue).Sharma will continue to hold the post of the Principal Secretary (Tribal Development), besides the new charge. Nisha Singh, Adviser (Health) to the HP Government in New Delhi and also Additional Chief Secretary, Forest, has been given the charge of the Rural Development and Panchayati Raj, Administrative Reforms, Training and Foreign Assignments.Bharat Khera, after returning from central deputation as Principal Secretary (Home and Vigilance), has been given additional charge of the General Administration department (GAD), Sainik Welfare and Parliamentary Affairs. Rajneesh, Principal Secretary, Information Technology, Urban Development and Town and Country Planning (TCP), has been given the charge of Education, Technical Education and IT.Devesh Kumar, Secretary to the Chief Minister and General Administration Department on promotion as the Principal Secretary, has been given the charge of the Urban Development and TCP. He will continue to hold the post of the Managing Director of HP Power Corporation Limited.Ajay Sharma, Secretary, Agriculture, has been given the charge of the Cooperation Department. Rajeev Sharma, Secretary (Education), shall hold the additional charge of Secretary, Lokayukta. Rakesh Kanwar, Director, Public Finance-cum-Special Secretary (Finance) on promotion as the Secretary, has been given the charge of Language, Art and Culture, besides the post of the State Project Director, Zero Budget Natural Farming, that he was holding. Two other officers, Rohit Jamwal and Shubh Karan Singh, have also been given the additional charges.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/9-ias-officers-shifted-in-himachal-pradesh-356775
01-01-2022||Una||Rs2.6 crore for water sports infra in Una||The state Tourism Department has sanctioned Rs 2.6 crore for infrastructure development for water sports and allied activities at Androuli village near the banks of the Gobind Sagar reservoir in the Kutlehar Assembly segment of the district.Rural Development Minister Virender Kanwar today said that the Una district administration had received the funds sanctioning letter. He added that besides constructing a water sports complex and infrastructure for parking and other amenities, a shopping complex for marketing rural products and eating joints would also be established.Androuli village presents a picturesque scene with vast spans of the lake encircled by lower Shivalik mountain ranges and the famous Baba Garib Nath temple that remains submerged in the lake water for nearly six months.Water sports activities, including adventure sports and angling, were being promoted to boost tourism in the region through the Kutlehar Tourism Development Society headed by the Deputy Commissioner.Kanwar said that equipment for bird watching would also be provided at the venue as the Gobind Sagar wetland hosts migratory birds from across the Himalayas during the winter.He said an expression of interest had been floated for the development of a water sports centre at Androuli and a few professional companies had made presentations to the Kutlehar Tourism Development Society. Kanwar added that the work to create civil structures and a botanical garden would be initiated soon and would be completed by April 2022. He expressed hope that the water sports centre would provide income generation opportunities to the local youth. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/2-6-crore-for-water-sports-infra-in-una-356773
01-01-2022||---||Work on lift blocks space of Shimla ice skating rink||Shimla, December 31The historic Ice Skating Club of Shimla is having a tough time this season. Not only that it’s unable to use around one-third space of the skating rink due to the construction of a lift, but also its retaining wall has become ‘unsafe’ due to digging by heavy machines.“We have apprised the DC about how the city’s iconic skating rink has become vulnerable,” says Pankaj Prabhakar, treasurer of the club. “The retaining wall built at a cost of Rs 45 lakh by the Sports Department is damaged and has become unsafe. It needs repair to ensure skating sessions are not disrupted,” he adds.Besides, the club has also complained about the shifting of the Himachal Road Transport Corporation (HRTC) ticket counter to its premises and the allotment of three sheds, right at the entrance of the club, to vendors. “These sheds were initially built for construction-related works. The HRTC, however, has allotted these sheds to vendors, who are running dhabas that do not have water or sewerage connections. Also, the dhaba owners burn garbage in the open. It’s causing a lot of inconvenience to skaters and also affecting the aesthetics of the club,” says Prabhakar.The club has apprehensions that the HRTC may make these makeshift sheds permanent and may not vacate the club’s premises even after the work on the lift is completed.Another issue that’s bothering the club is the delay in the demolition of the Rivoli building, which is perched right above the skating rink. “If the building collapses, a part of the club will be damaged. We have brought the matter to the notice of the MC but no action has been taken so far,” he says. Interestingly, the MC has ordered the demolition of the Rivoli building but the order hasn’t been implemented till date.Also, there was a plan to convert the skating rink into an all-weather facility through the Shimla Smart City Mission but that project, too, has not seen the light of the day. “An all-weather skating rink will be a great facility that will also boost tourism. We have no clue what happened to the project,” says Prabhakar.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/work-on-lift-blocks-space-of-shimla-ice-skating-rink-356772
01-01-2022||Dipender Manta||Lahaul products attract visitors to Manali expo||Tribune News ServiceMandi, December 31The products prepared by the self-help groups of Lahaul, under the National Rural Livelihoods Mission, are attracting a lot of tourists to an exhibition in Kullu and Manali.Knitted socks, gloves, sweaters, traditional food products such as dosa, local tea, marchu, thupka and momos are available at the exhibition at Hotel Himalayan in Manali and Hotel Sarvari of the Tourism Development Corporation in Kullu.Good responseThe district administration’s initiative is yielding positive results for us. It has boosted the morale of the women self-help groups. Mangal Dasi, member, self-help groupLahaul-Spiti Deputy Commissioner Neeraj Kumar said the women self-help groups preparing these traditional handicrafts and delicacies of Lahaul were receiving a good response from the tourists.The DC said the Lahaul-Spiti district administration would extend full help and guidance to these self-help groups to promote their handicraft products and delicacies at the national level. The tourists could also enjoy these delicacies during the Winter Carnival, which would kick off on January 2 in Manali.Meanwhile, Neon Dhairya Sharma, project director and District Mission Manager of National Rural Livelihood Mission, Kullu, and Lahaul Spiti, said the activities were being carried out under an action plan and as per the DC’s guidelines so that the self-help groups could earn a better income.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/lahaul-products-attract-visitors-to-manali-expo-356770
01-01-2022||Our Correspondent||Manali Winter Carnival to focus on social issues||Kullu, December 31With the advent of New Year, Manali will be hosting the Winter Carnival from January 2 to 6. The annual fest is organised to attract tourists to Kullu and Manali during the off-season, promote folk culture and provide a platform to local artistes and those from other states.Over the years, despite many ups and downs, the tradition of organising the event in one form or the other has continued. In order to expand it, the then Chief Minister Prem Kumar Dhumal gave the Winter Carnival the status of a state-level festival in 1999 while it became a national event in 2011.Event dates back to 1970sThe main purpose of the carnival in 1970s was to promote winter sports. Harnam Singh, the then director of the mountaineering institute in Manali, played an important role in starting this event. — Shyam Sunder Sharma, Manali residentMeanwhile, this time, Education and Culture Minister Govind Singh Thakur is making efforts to take the festival to a new level. Special emphasis is being laid on creating awareness among common people and tourists about social issues such as cleanliness, environmental protection and the Motor Vehicles Act, etc. Each day, there will be a different theme on topics such as abstaining from drugs, maintaining cleanliness, saving daughters and environment protection, etc. Moreover, the Forest Department has also made preparations to plant 5,000 saplings during the carnival.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/manali-winter-carnival-to-focus-on-social-issues-356768
01-01-2022||---||Cong in turmoil over leadership issue: Himachal CM||Shimla, December 31Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur today said that the Congress in the state was in turmoil over the leadership issue, which would make the going tough for the party in the Assembly elections due next year.“The situation for the Congress will get tougher as the Assembly elections draw nearer, as the party is witnessing a power tussle amidst the talk of appointment of five working presidents, besides a president,” he said. The fortunes of the Congress had been on the decline across the country and the party was heading for a split in Uttarakhand while the situation in Himachal was no better, he added.Cabinet reshuffle likely: ThakurChief Minister Jai Ram Thakur admitted on Friday that there were bound to be changes in the party organisation and the Cabinet in the election year, as was the practice in most of the other BJP-ruled states.“The massive turnout at the Mandi rally that was addressed by Prime Minister Narendra Modi has helped lift the sagging morale of BJP cadres after the party’s defeat in the four byelections,” he said. He added that the Prime Minister’s Mandi rally had given the much-needed impetus to the BJP for the forthcoming Assembly elections.Thakur said that the BJP’s central leadership comprising the Prime Minister, Home Minister Amit Shah and national party president JP Nadda takes every election very seriously. “The same cannot be said for the Congress, which is in total disarray, both at the Centre and in the states,” he added.The Chief Minister said that the Prime Minister was expected to visit Himachal at least three or four times next year. He added that he had urged the Central Government to enhance the limit of interest free loan to Himachal to Rs 600 crore next year. “With the provision of GST compensation from the Central Government being stopped, Himachal stands to lose Rs 3,500 crore annually, besides losing Rs 2,000 crore due to the revenue deficit grant also coming to an end,” he said.Thakur said, “Himachal has very limited revenue generating resources, hence the Central Government must provide some grant to the help establish the airport at Mandi, which will help give a major boost to tourism. I have raised the issue with the Central Government to make an allocation for the maintenance of around 20,000 km roads constructed under the Pradhan Mantri Gramin Sadak Yojana (PMGSY), as the state has no funds to repair and maintain them”.Meanwhile, regarding change of guard the Chief Minister said, “There is every possibility of a reshuffle in the Cabinet. And in the election year, there are bound to be changes, as witnessed in other BJP-ruled states.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/cong-in-turmoil-over-leadership-issue-himachal-cm-356767
01-01-2022||Bhanu P Lohumi||Tourists throng Shimla to ring in New Year||Tribune News ServiceShimla, December 31The imposition of restrictions in some states following the spread of the Omicron variant of Covid-19 has proved to be a blessing in disguise for the tourism industry of Shimla. The hotels in the capital city are packed with nearly 100 per cent occupancy.Tourists in a large number have arrived in the city to ring in New Year and local hoteliers are doing tremendous business. The famous tourist resort of Kufri, besides the Mall Road and The Ridge are overcrowded. However, local people are a bit scared as tourists have a free entry to the state and hotel employees are working under the lurking fear of contracting Covid.“The hotel occupancy in Shimla is about 100 per cent and the standard operating procedures (SOPs) are being followed. Thermal screening of tourists is being done, rooms are being sanitised before allotment and we are following no mask no service policy,” said Ashwani Sood, an office-bearer of the Shimla Hotel and Restaurant Association.Seats in all trains coming from Kalka to Shimla with a capacity of 1,600 to 1,800 persons per day were fully booked till the first week of January, said Joginder Singh, Shimla Railway Station Superintendent.“The hotel occupancy is nearly 100 per cent but despite bookings tourists are unable to reach hotels located on the Victory tunnel-Auckland stretch as traffic has been diverted via the new ISBT-Khalini route from Tutikandi,” said MK Seth, president of the Tourism Industry Stakeholders Association. He added that the hotel industry had got no relief from the government in view of the Covid pandemic and the diversion of traffic from the main city would further dent the business of about 50 hotels located en route.Meanwhile, the Shimla police have come up with an innovative poster, which it has been circulated on the social networking site .The poster reads: This New Year eve, try not to be our guests, free entry for rash drivers, drunk drivers, public smokers, mask violators and other eligible violators – special performance by Shimla police – on the menu fine/ challans.Over 5,000 vehicles entered Shimla from 8 am to 8 pm today. Due to the heavy tourist inflow, traffic was moving at a snail’s pace, said SP, Shimla, Monika Bhutungru. Additional police force had been deployed to manage rush on The Mall Road, and The Ridge, besides regulating traffic, she added.Due to the heavy rush, restricted roads near the AG Chowk, Kennedy Chowk, Chaura Maidan, Shimla Club and the Navbahar Chowk had been opened for vehicle parking.Intel inputs on threat by Pak-based entity||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/tourists-throng-shimla-to-ring-in-new-year-356766
01-01-2022||Lalit Mohan||Deadline missed, Pong Dam oustees' in Himachal wait for land allotment stretches on||Tribune News ServiceDharamsala, December 31The district administration has not met the December 31 deadline for the allotment of land to the landless Pong Dam oustees as the Revenue Department has failed to process the matter.Kangra Deputy Commissioner Nipun Jindal said efforts were being made to finalise the allotment of plots to the oustees at the earliest.Today, revenue officials from Dehra subdivision visited Ban Chabbar village near the Pong Dam lake to survey the land for allotment.Over 300 landless Pong Dam oustees have applied for allotment of plots in Dehra subdivision.After The Tribune recently highlighted the plight of the oustees residing in Dehra subdivision, they were provided power supply.These oustees were landless labourers working for landlords in villages on the banks of the Beas. After the construction of Pong Dam in 1961, their houses got submerged in the lake.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/delhi/deadline-missed-pong-dam-oustees-wait-for-land-allotment-stretches-on-356742
01-01-2022||---||Ridge in Shimla vacated of tourists over terror threat on New Year's eve||Shimla, December 31The famous Ridge and the Mall Road wore a deserted look on Friday night after the district authorities got the area cleared of tourists following an input from intelligence agencies that a Pakistani-based entity was planning a bomb blast at the Ridge on New Year.The Ridge, which is the most happening place in the town and is flooded with people on New Year every year, was vacated by the police around 8 pm.Thousands of tourists and local people had gathered at the Ridge Maidan but the police suddenly started vacating it, a tourist said.Earlier, Deputy Commissioner Aditya Negi said people had been dispersed in wake of the Covid-19 pandemic.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/ridge-in-shimla-vacated-of-tourists-over-terror-threat-356683
