03-01-2022||Notwithstanding court directions to ensure that vehicles were not parked along the highways||Himachal Diary: Fourlane Parwanoo-Solan highway or a parking lot?||Crowds don’t always indicate popularityIn the wake of the massive rally of Prime Minister Narendra Modi at Mandi on completion of four years of BJP government in office in the state on December 27, BJP president Suresh Kashyap was quick to comment that the presence of huge crowds indicated that the people have endorsed the policy, programmes and performance of the state government. People are now asking why the BJP lost four by-elections, if the people are so happy. More so when the BJP had contested the elections on the plank of development. Crowds at public meetings are no indication of popular support of the party and the BJP leaders should come out of illusion, said a politician.Leadership crisisAfter the demise of former minister GS Bali there was a leadership crisis in Congress in Kangra district. Some young Congress leaders were urged to take up the mantle of Congress leadership in the district. However, none of them has come forward to shoulder the responsibility. According to inside political circles, young Congress leaders were not too enthusiastic. They would stay in their constituencies rather than trying to be district leaders.Blessing in disguiseThe bomb blast threat at Ridge Ground in Shimla on the New Year eve created commotion and holiday mood of tourists was spoilt as they were asked to disperse immediately. However, it proved a blessing in disguise for women folk who generally avoid coming to Ridge as rowdy crowds and inebriated drunkards create nuisance. With heavy deployment of police on the Ridge and Mall Road, women felt fully secured as they moved freely under security cover.Contributed by Bhanu Lohumi, Ambika Sharma, Lalit Mohan||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/fourlane-highway-or-a-parking-lot-357428
03-01-2022||Lalit Mohan||Hills being razed 'illegally' along highways in Kangra||Tribune News ServiceDharamsala, January 2Hills are being razed with impunity along national highways in Kangra district to bring up commercial establishments. As per information collected by The Tribune, most of these hills are being cut without obtaining a ‘No Objection Certificate’ from the national highways department in violation of rules and regulations, right under the nose of law enforcement authorities.JCB machines in actionSome of the places where hills are being pulled down using JCB machines include areas from Dharamsala to the Gaggal NH, near the tunnel on the Kangra-Ranital NH and near Narian Pokhar on Ranital to Dehra NH. The machines are cutting the hills from top to bottom and debris is being dumped in gorges along the NH. Though the said highways are being used by officials almost everyday to commute, no action has been taken to stop the illegal act. Officials are waiting for formal complaints to take action.The SE, NH, in the Kangra region, MP Dhiman, when contacted, said 24 meters is the acquired width of all national highways in the state. The land extending 24 m from the centre of all NHs is acquired by the government for NHs. If any construction is carried in that area, it is an encroachment on government land and action will be taken against culprits. Beyond 24 m, up to 5 m, from the edge of the road, no construction can be carried out without taking an NOC from the NH department, he said.When questioned about the cutting of hills along the highways, the SE said action would be taken in case the matter is brought to his notice.The unscientific and illegal cutting of hills create massive landslides in the Kangra region during the monsoons. This year, many people lost their lives due to landslides in Kangra district during the monsoon. Sources said geologists had brought to the notice of the district administration that at many places along national highways, permanent sliding areas had been created due to the unscientific cutting of hills. These areas witnessed landslides every year during the monsoon.Besides, if the criteria of 24 m from the centre of the road is considered to be acquired along the NHs, in Kangra district, hundreds of illegal constructions have come up. Sources here said in most of the cases of encroachments on national highways, the authorities were either turning a blind eye or limiting their action to just issuing notices to save their skin in case of litigation.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/hills-being-razed-illegally-along-highways-in-kangra-357424
03-01-2022||Mandi||Volvo bus driver, two others hurt  in Mandi||Three persons were injured when a Volvo bus met with an accident at Dehar powerhouse in Mandi on Sunday. At the time of the accident, around 40 passengers were on board in the bus.According to police, the bus was on its way from Manali to Chandigarh when the driver lost control over the vehicle. As a result, it collided with the gate of the powerhouse at Dehar.The driver Lokesh Kumar, a native of Rohtak Haryana and two other passengers Yogesh and Ankit Ram, both natives of Haryana were injured. The injured victims were rushed to a nearby hospital at Sundernagar. The critically injured driver was later referred to Nerchowk medical college Mandi. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/volvo-bus-driver-two-others-hurt-in-mandi-357423
03-01-2022||Our Correspondent||Cash, ornaments worth Rs 15 lakh stolen in village near Palampur||Palampur, January 2Cash, gold and silver ornaments worth Rs 15 lakh were stolen from two different houses in Deogram village near here. Police said a gang of thieves entered the houses on Friday night, broke open the steel lockers and managed to escape with cash and jewellery. The burglars entered the houses by breaking window panes.Police sources said owners of both the houses were sleeping in adjoining rooms. They found the belongings scattered the next morning and cash and jewellery worth Rs 15 lakh were found missing.The Panchrukhi police have registered a case and investigation is in progress.Earlier, in a similar incident, jewellery worth over Rs 17 lakh was stolen from Rajpur village.However, the police are yet to arrest the culprits.The deteriorating law and order situation in Palampur, Panchrukhi, Bhawarna and Baijnath areas has become a matter of concern, lamented residents.The shortage of manpower in the police stations has made the matter worse, sources added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/cash-ornaments-worth-rs-15l-stolen-357422
03-01-2022||Shimla||GST collection Rs 342 crore in December||The Excise and Taxation Department has collected Rs 342 crores under Goods and Service tax (GST) in the month of December. The GST collections in the current financial year up to December 2021 stands at Rs 3,157.26 crores as compared to Rs 2,370.45 crores during the same period last year. The collection was 33 per cent more, a spokesperson of the department said here today.Capacity building of tax officers, nudging non-filers after the last date of filing of returns, monitoring of field functionaries, verification of e-way bills have led to the improvement in collections. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/gst-collection-rs342-cr-in-dec-357421
03-01-2022||Una||Day after Una mishap, 26 workers with two bodies leave for Chhattisgarh||A day after two workers were killed and three others injured in the Una secretariat building mishap, 26 workers belonging to the same village as that of the deceased left for Chhattisgarh by road. They were accompanying the two bodies, wives of the deceased and their children. The last rites will be performed at their native village in the presence of their family members, said a worker.Mukesh Kumar, one of the workers, recalls that it was the first day of the new year and the foreman had declared it as a non-working day. However, since a truckload of marble slabs had arrived the previous night, it was decided to unload the vehicle and about 12 men volunteered to do the task.At about 1 pm, the tragedy struck. Four persons, who were trapped under the slabs were rescued by people, while Kedar, the fifth one escaped with a minor injury.Those who were declared brought dead at the Una district hospital were Mohan Lal Kaibarta (37) and Shiv Kumar Kaushik (33), both residents of Jhabdi village of Balodabazar district in Chhattisgarh. The injured include Tula Ram, who was shifted to the PGI in Chandigarh where his condition is reportedly stable. The other injured, Shankar, is under treatment at the Una district hospital.Construction foreman Ram Babu said the contractor had paid a compensation of Rs 4 lakh to the kin of each of the deceased and had also arranged for the transportation of bodies their family members and other workers to their village.Kedar, the survivor, also boarded the bus back home. “I pray that Tula Ram and Shankar recover soon and are back with us,” he said. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/day-after-una-mishap-26-workers-with-two-bodies-leave-for-chhattisgarh-357420
03-01-2022||Our Correspondent||Covid vax drive for 15 plus starts today||UNA, JANUARY 2About 33,400 children in the 15 to 18 age group will be administered the first jab against Covid in Una district from tomorrow.Deputy Commissioner Raghav Sharma said they would be administered Covaxin. Six teams have been constituted in each subdivision of the district to undertake the task. In the first phase, vaccination will be done at the school level, he said, adding that 24,000 students from government schools and about 9,400 studying in private schools would be covered.The DC said vaccination drive would be conducted at 286 locations, which include 137 senior secondary schools, 46 high schools, two central schools and Jawahar Navodaya Vidyalaya and 100 private schools in the district. He said all children born between January 1, 2004, and December 31, 2007, inclusive of both dates were eligible to get the jabs.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/vax-drive-for-15-plus-starts-today-357419
03-01-2022||---||Bilaspur: Mumbai tourist dies, 5 injured in Swarghat accident||Shimla, January 2A woman was killed on the spot while five other persons suffered injuries when two tourist buses met with an accident at Swarghat in Bilaspur today.Students of several states were travelling in three buses from Manali to Chandigarh after celebrating New Year.The first bus turned turtle after the driver lost control of the vehicle near Garamod on the Chandigarh-Manali National Highway.Buses were en route to ChandigarhA passenger from Mumbai, Ruksin Madon (23), was helping others when the driver of the second bus lost control over the vehicle and it crushed her to death. The bus went on to hit the parapet on the left side.Sources said some police personnel had signalled the second bus to stop but the driver was unable to apply brake on time. Five tourists, who sustained minor injuries, have been discharged after first-aid from Civil Hospital, Nalagarh.Family members of the deceased have been informed and they are on their way to Bilaspur, said SP Saju Ram Rana. The body will be handed over to them after a post-mortem examination, he added. Preliminary investigations pointed out that the driver was tired as he did not have a sound sleep last night.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/1-dies-5-injured-in-swarghat-accident-357418
03-01-2022||The Dharamsala Municipal Corporation has dug trenches on the Civil Lines road as part of the Smart City mission. However||Open trenches invite mishaps in Dharamsala||Overloaded buses, no ventilationWith Covid-19 cases likely to resurge, the authorities need to keep a tab on occupancy in private buses in Shimla. The buses are overloaded and there is hardly any ventilation. All windows are closed due to the cold weather. The bus operators should refrain from loading up the bus beyond its capacity, keeping in mind the safety of people. — Shailender, ShimlaWhat our readers sayIs a civic issue bothering you? Are you agitated over the lack of concern? Is there something heartening that you feel needs to be highlighted? Or a picture which in your opinion ought to be seen by many, and not just you?The Tribune invites its readers to have their say. Email at: hpreadersfeedback@tribunemail.com||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/open-trenches-invite-mishaps-357417
03-01-2022||Legal Correspondent||Pay disability pension to ITBP soldier, orders HC||Shimla, January 2The HP High Court has quashed and set aside the order issued by the Commandant of 9th Battalion of Indo-Tibetan Police Force (ITBP), Union Ministry of Home Affairs, whereby it had rejected the claim of disability pension to a soldier on the ground that he had only 40 per cent disability.While passing this order, a division bench comprising Justice Sabina and Justice Satyen Vaidya observed that “the case reveals weary tale of a soldier who instead of fighting on the battlefield had to fight in the courts.”The court further directed the government last week, on an appeal filed by Bhisham Singh of Shimla, to pay him disability pension as applicable under Central Civil Services Extraordinary Pension Rules along with arrears with 9 per cent interest per annum within a period of three months.Allowing the appeal of a former constable, Indo-Tibetan Police Force, who suffered an injury to his left eye while in service and due to which he was declared unfit for duties by the medical board, the court observed that “Central Civil Services Extraordinary Pension Rules nowhere provide that the person with disability less than 60 per cent was not be eligible for grant of benefit thereunder.”The court further observed that “it is not in dispute that the appellant had suffered disability to the extent of 40 per cent as a result of eye injury suffered by him. Since the appellant had 40 per cent disability, his claim was rejected on this ground alone.A plain reading of the provisions Central Service Extraordinary Pension Rules makes it clear that for every percentage of disability, the disability pension is payable but the rates and incidence is different under the rules. By virtue of this, the percentage of disability to be reckoned for computation of disability element has been prescribed and even in the cases of disability assessed by Medical Board at less than 50 per cent, the same was to be reckoned at 50 per cent.”The court further held that the appellant is entitled to disability pension in addition to his service pension.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/pay-disability-pension-to-itbp-soldier-orders-high-court-357416
03-01-2022||Our Correspondent||Legal camp held at Banjar||KULLU, January 2The Kullu District Legal Services Authority (DLSA) organised a legal literacy and awareness camp at Ambedkar Bhawan in Banjar on Sunday. Amardeep Singh, DLSA Secretary and Additional Chief Judicial Magistrate, apprised the people about rights of women, rights of children, MGNREGA scheme, rights of arrested persons, free legal aid, domestic violence and many more legal issues.Advocate Vinay Dogra and Banjar Block Development Officer Satpal also made people aware about various welfare schemes. A large number of office-bearers of various panchayats and residents participated in the camp.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/legal-camp-held-at-banjar-357415
03-01-2022||Our Correspondent||Parking areas earmarked near Atal Tunnel||Kullu, January 2Lahaul and Spiti SP Manav Verma has stated that different areas had been earmarked for parking of vehicles near the north portal of the Atal Tunnel up to Sissu.A parking space for 150 vehicles would be available near Gufa Hotel, for 30 vehicles near the Pagal nullah, for 15 vehicles near the Teling nullah and for 400 vehicles near the Sissu helipad. He stated that the rally ground adjacent to the Sissu helipad, which was not being used at present, could accommodate 200 vehicles.No accidents in DecThe tunnel remained closed for four days in December. Due to the efforts of the police, no accidents took place and no injuries and casualties were reported in this month. —Manav Verma, Lahaul and Spiti SPVerma said no accidents took place in the district in December, even as traffic through the Atal Tunnel, Rohtang, increased by over 50 per cent.He said 44,533 vehicles had passed through the tunnel in December 2020, while the number rose to 68,548 in December 2021. The tunnel had remained closed for eight days in December 2020, while it remained closed for four days in December 2021. Due to the efforts of the police, no accidents took place and no injuries and casualties were reported in December, the SP maintained.Around 35,574 vehicles entered the Lahaul valley through the tunnel and around 32,974 vehicles exited through it. Around 22,918 vehicles of other states passed through it. Traffic movement had been smooth, though slight congestion was witnessed on December 24. As many as 219 challans compounding to Rs 1.60 lakh were issued.The SP said, “December has been a challenging month with sub-zero temperatures and black ice forming after 3 pm. The police have worked untiringly to ensure all commuters from Pangi and Lahaul, along with tourists, travel safely to their destinations”.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/parking-areas-earmarked-near-tunnel-357414
03-01-2022||Shimla||Potable water quality best in Himachal: Survey||The state has been placed on top in the overall functionality assessment of potable water in a survey conducted by an independent agency.The survey took into consideration quality, quantity and regularity of potable water. “The Centre gets a functionality assessment survey done by a third party. Himachal topped the functionality parameter and did well in quality parameter too,” said Sanjeev Kaul, Engineer in Chief, Jal Shakti Vibhag.As per the survey report, 88 per cent household tap connections were found satisfactory against the parameters like quantity, quality and regularity. Moreover, 98 per cent connections cleared 13 parameters for quality check and the same number of connections were found working in the survey.As for the regularity of supply, 77 per cent connections had daily supply, while 19 per cent had between 3-6 days. Only 4 per cent connections had supply on 1-2 days in a week. As for potability of the water supply, 98 per cent samples cleared all parameters with just 2 per cent failing on one parameter.The Jal Shakti Vibhag has set up 56 labs across the state. The department is planning to set up another 10 labs. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/potable-water-quality-best-in-state-survey-357413
03-01-2022||Shimla||Snowfall in Shimla, Manali likely this week||As snow eluded Shimla and Manali on New Year’s eve, the cities, along with other high hill destinations, may experience widespread rain and snow this week, weather officials said on Sunday.“A fresh western disturbance and its associated induced cyclonic circulation is likely to hit the western Himalayan region from January 3,” a statement by the Meteorological office here said.“Under its influence, precipitation is likely to increase from January 3 in intensity and distribution with fairly widespread to widespread light or moderate rainfall in the plains and low hills and light to moderate rainfall or snowfall in the mid and high hills from January 3 to 6,” it said.The MeT said isolated heavy rainfall or snowfall is very likely in Shimla, Kinnaur, Lahaul-Spiti, Kullu, Chamba, Kangra and Mandi districts between January 4 and 5. Light to moderate rainfall is likely in rest parts of the state.In view of chances of thunderstorm and lightning with hailstorm at isolated parts in the state from January 4 to 5, the MeT asked the state authorities and the public to take adequate safety measures. —IANS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/snowfall-in-shimla-manali-likely-this-week-357412
03-01-2022||Shimla||Himachal power board panel flags staff crunch concern||The Himachal Power Engineers’ Association (HPEA) has accused the HPSEBL management of “inefficiency” in managing the power system.Maintaining that HPEA was working hard to ensure uninterrupted, quality power supply to consumers, the association alleged that the lack of proper directions by the management had created a crisis.“There is a shortage of manpower in field units. Even the meagre staff are being shifted and transferred,” said Lokesh Thakur, HPEA president. “The staff crunchis being felt in the transmission wing as well as the HPPTCL,” he said.Lokesh claimed that even as the number of sub-stations was increasing, there seemed to be no plan to provide manpower to manage these sub-stations. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/power-board-panel-flags-staff-crunch-concern-357411
03-01-2022||Dharamsala||Himachal Pradesh Cricket Association felicitates Vijay Hazare squad||The Himachal Pradesh Cricket Association (HPCA) today honoured its team that won this year Vijay Hazare trophy. The team that arrived in Dharamsala the headquarters of the HPCA was welcomed by the office-bearers of the association, including its president Arun Dhumal.The team members were felicitated at Dharamsala international cricket stadium. Arun Dhumal, who is also treasurer of the BCCI, had announced an award money of Rs 1 crore for the victorious team.Arun Dhumal said that the cricket had come a long way since the HPCA brought its first international cricket stadium in Dharamsala in 2005. It was for the first time that Himachal had won a national level trophy in cricket. Due to training facilities created by the HPCA and cricket tournaments organized here many youth from hinterlands of Himachal were now making it to national, international and IPL levels.The HPCA would boost the training facilities in Himachal so that more players from rural areas make it to the top level, he said. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/vijay-hazare-squad-felicitated-357410
03-01-2022||Our Correspondent||Manali carnival off to colourful start||KULLU, January 2After paying obeisance at Hadimba Devi temple, Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur flagged off cultural tableaux marking commencement of the five-day national-level Winter Carnival at Manali today. The festival was not held in 2020 and 2021 amid the Covid crisis. The tableaux parade by Mahila Mandals, various departments and institutions exhibited Himachali art, culture, festivals, artisans and cottage industries, besides the development in tourism.The Chief Minister also inaugurated the cultural programme at Manu Rangshala. He said various spots would be developed as tourist places to boost tourism. The rock climbing wall in Manali would strengthen adventure tourism activities while the Beas Bihal Nature Park would provide clean and beautiful natural environment to tourists, besides generating employment for locals, he stated.Earlier, the Chief Minister inaugurated and laid the foundation stones of developmental projects worth approximately Rs 41 crore and also threw open the state-level Swarnim Van Mahotsav. He inaugurated the Bhekhli-Jindaud-Byasar road, Marhi-Shaleen road, a bridge over Haripur Nullah and artificial rock climbing wall at the Atal Bihari Vajpayee Institute of Mountaineering and Allied Sports. He also inaugurated the Beas Bihal Nature Park, constructed at a cost of Rs 3 crore, and Swarnim Vatika at Kothi, constructed at a cost of Rs 26 lakh. Thakur laid the foundation stone of Hamta-Chikka Forest Inspection Road, to be constructed at a cost of Rs 30 lakh, a bridge over Khanaura Nallah, to be constructed at Rs 89 lakh, and a motorable bridge over the Beas river at Bahang, to be constructed at a cost of Rs 12 crore.The Chief Minister announced Rs 2.5 crore for construction of a bridge over Kathi Nullah, Rs 1.22 crore for a bridge in Grahan village, upgrade of Government High School, Jindaud, to senior secondary school and Government Middle School, Meha, to government high school. He also honoured Anchal Thakur of Manali for winning a bronze medal in the International Skiing Competition, held in Montenegro, Europe.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/manali-carnival-off-to-colourful-start-357409
03-01-2022||Bhanu P Lohumi||Himachal's university sold 50K degrees: Probe||Tribune News ServiceShimla, January 2The number of fake degrees allegedly sold by Manav Bharti University (MBU), Solan, is all set to cross the 50,000 mark. The investigation agencies have detected over 45,000 fake degrees and digital evidence in respect of another 5,000 is being verified.Certificates were priced at Rs1-3 lakhThe special investigation team (SIT) of the CID had recovered 55 hard disks which were being scanned. The investigation has now reached its conclusive stage, official sources said, adding that the number of fake degrees could mount further as the process of scanning the retrieved data was still on.The investigation pointed out that fake degrees were sold outside the state through agents for Rs 1-3 lakh in cash deal in majority of the cases.Properties worth Rs 194.74 crore out of Rs 440 crore linked to the crime proceeds were attached. Raj Kumar Rana, chairman, Manav Bharti Charitable Trust, is the main accused. The extradition process to bring back his wife, son and daughter from Australia is in progress. Various teams are looking into financial transactions, land deals, digital evidences and interstate links as well as identification of fake degrees. A case under Sections 420, 467, 468, 471 and 120-B of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) was registered against university officials on March 3, 2020. As many as 36,000 fake degrees were detected in January last year.In 2019, the University Grants Commission had pointed out that two private universities allegedly sold about 5 lakh degrees and asked the authorities concerned to conduct a thorough inquiry into the allegations against Alakh Prakash Goyal (APG) University (Shimla) and Manav Bharti University (Solan).||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/hp-varsity-sold-50k-degrees-probe-357457
