04-01-2022||Shimla||Himachal reports 260 fresh Covid cases, highest single-day rise in weeks||Himachal Pradesh recorded as many as 260 fresh Covid cases on Tuesday, an official said.He said this is the highest single-day rise in the hill state in past several weeks.With the fresh cases, the overall infection count in the state has now risen to 2,29,413, he added.The death toll due to Covid remained unchanged at 3,862 as no new fatality was reported due to the virus. The number of active Covid cases rose to 859 from 621 on Monday in the state.Besides, 22 more patients recovered from the infection, taking the recovery count to 2,24,663, the health official said. --- PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/himachal-reports-260-fresh-covid-cases-highest-single-day-rise-in-weeks-358160
04-01-2022||Aditi Tandon||At 2.24 per cent, Jammu and Kashmir lowest spender of Covid emergency fund in region; HP lags too||Tribune News ServiceNew Delhi, January 4Jammu and Kashmir has emerged as the poorest performer among states and UTs in the region when it comes to spending of the funds available to under the Covid 19 Emergency Response and Health Systems Preparedness Package approved by the Union Cabinet on July 8, 2021, to create infrastructure in the wake of a third wave.Health Ministry data shows that while Delhi has spent 138.74 per cent of the funds earmarked for it under the scheme, Jammu and Kashmir has spent 2.24 pc, Ladakh 7,41 pc, Himachal Pradesh 9.94 pc, Chandigarh 27.77 pc, Haryana 60.13 pc and Punjab 87.45 pc.Only five states in India have reported expenditure of more than 50 pc under the plan.These are Delhi, Haryana, Punjab, Tamil Nadu and West Bengal.Nationally, states and UTs have spent 19.42 pc of the funds under the centrally sponsored scheme aimed to prevent, detect and respond to the threat of the pandemic and strengthen health systems for emergency preparedness to avoid the kind of crisis hospitals faced at the height of the third wave.The Centre has so far released 50 pc of the funds earmarked for states/UTs under the scheme where the Central share is Rs 15,000 crore and state share is 8,123 crore.The scheme is to be implemented from July 1, 2021 to March 31, 2022.Of the Rs. 6075.85 crore made available by the Union Government, Rs 1679.05 crore, (27.13 pc), have been spent by States as December 31, 2021.However, states and UTs had spent 19.42 pc of the total funds (central and state share together) available under the scheme until January 3.Under the scheme, Rs 20,308.70 crores are to be spent by states out of which Rs 12,185.70 crore is to be provided by the central government and Rs 8,123 crore is to be provided by state governments.The remaining central funds will be released to states and UTs based on the progress and utilization of at least 50 pc funds already released.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/nation/at-2-24-per-cent-jammu-and-kashmir-lowest-spender-of-covid-emergency-fund-in-region-hp-lags-too-358153
04-01-2022||Dipender Manta||Fresh snowfall in Lahaul-Spiti; traffic beyond Atal tunnel in Manali stopped||Tribune News ServiceMandi, January 4Fresh snowfall on Tuesday crippled normal life in tribal district Lahaul and Spiti as it has been snowing heavily in the region.In the wake of heavy snow, the district administration of Lahaul and Spiti has stopped traffic movement towards the tribal area beyond Atal tunnel on Manali-Leh highway from Manali.The Himachal Road Transport Corporation has also stopped its bus service between Kullu and Keylong via Atal tunnel.Bus service on many local routes has been suspended in wake of inclement weather conditions.Lahaul and Spiti SP said only 4x4 vehicles would be allowed to move between Manali and Keylong via Atal tunnel in emergency cases.People have been advised to avoid journey on this route as it has been snowing heavily near Atal tunnel and its nearby places.However, tourists and hoteliers in Manali town are happy, who were waiting desperately for the spell of fresh snowfall.Nearby places at Manali as Solang valley and Gulaba are receiving fresh snowfall and it is expected that till noon Manali town will also receive fresh snowfall.A large number of tourists are camping in Manali since December 31 to enjoy the celebrations of winter carnival, which will conclude on January 6.Hoteliers are expecting good business in the coming days as snow is major attraction for tourists in Manali.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/fresh-snowfall-in-lahaul-spiti-traffic-beyond-atal-tunnel-in-manali-stopped-358076
04-01-2022||New Delhi||Heavy snow in Himachal, wet spell in Punjab till January 9||Two consecutive active western disturbances (WD) along with their induced systems with moisture incursion from the Arabian Sea are set to impact the weather over Northwest and adjoining Central India over the next seven days. Along with a wet spell till January 9, no cold wave conditions are likely over North India during the next six to seven days, the IMD said on Tuesday.Under the influence of a prevailing WD, an induced cyclonic circulation has formed over southwest Rajasthan and adjoining Pakistan at lower tropospheric levels. Along with the moisture feeding from the Arabian Sea, heavy rainfall/snowfall can be expected over Jammu-Kashmir-Ladakh-Gilgit-Baltistan-Muzaffarabad and Himachal Pradesh, and Uttarakhand on Wednesday.Also: Fresh snowfall in Lahaul-Spiti; traffic beyond Atal tunnel in Manali stoppedSnowfall in Shimla, Manali likely this weekAs per the weather department, heavy rainfall and snowfall are expected in Jammu and Kashmir and Ladakh on January 4, while heavy rainfall/snowfall over Himachal Pradesh and Uttarakhand on January 5. Two consecutive active Western Disturbances (03-05 January 2022 and 06-09 January 2022) very likely to affect Northwest & adjoining central India during next 7 days  Rainfall is also very likely over many parts of Punjab, Haryana, Chandigarh and Delhi, north Rajasthan, West Uttar Pradesh. Punjab, Haryana and Chandigarh may also see thunderstorms and some hailstorm activity on Wednesday, as per the IMD.  Thereafter, another intense WD will affect Northwest from the night of January 6. Under its influence, an induced cyclonic circulation is very likely to form over southwest Rajasthan and its neighbouring areas. Along with high moisture feeding on the Arabian Sea, fairly widespread to widespread rainfall/snowfall are expected over Western Himalayan Region between January 7 and 9.Isolated heavy rainfall/snowfall is likely over Jammu-Kashmir-Ladakh-Gilgit-BaltistanMuzaffarabad and Himachal Pradesh along with fairly widespread rains/thunderstorms over plains of northwest and adjoining central India. There will also be a gradual rise in minimum temperatures by 2-4degrees Celsius over most parts of Northwest and Central India during the next two days.Hence, no cold wave conditions are likely over the Northwest during the next six to seven days, the IMD added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/heavy-snow-in-himachal-rain-in-punjab-from-tomorrow-358054
04-01-2022||Mandi||Congress shocked at Mandi rally's success: Himachal CM||Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur said yesterday that Congress leaders were shocked at the success of the rally in Mandi, which was attended by PM Narendra Modi on December 27. He said, “Congress leaders should understand that Modi had visited Mandi to give the gift of four big projects worth Rs 11,500 crore to HP”.He was presiding over the closing session of the 59th meeting of CD Cooperative Credit Society Limited, Gohar in Mandi. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/cong-shocked-at-rallys-success-cm-357959
04-01-2022||Our Correspondent||Stone of bus stand building laid in Una||UNA, JANUARY 3Minister for Transport, Industries, Labour and Employment Bikram Thakur today laid the foundation stone of a new bus stand building at Bangana subdivisional headquarters.Agriculture Minister Virender Kanwar accompanied him. A sum of Rs 3.5 crore will be spent on the construction of the bus stand, which will be spread on an area of 15 kanal. Eight landowners, who donated their land for the bus stand, were honoured.Speaking on the occasion, Bikram Thakur announced the extension of Shimla to Mehre daily bus service to Bangana and the extension of the Una to Shimla bus service from Raipur in Bangana subdivision.He also announced that a new local bus service would be started to cover some local routes in Bangana and Jaswan Paragpur areas and directed the transport authorities to decide the route.Bikram Singh later dedicated to the public an additional building block of the Labour Office at Una distric, built at a cost of Rs 59.62 lakh.Addressing a public gathering here, the Labour Minister deliberated on various welfare schemes for daily wagers and construction workers under the Himachal Pradesh Building and other Construction Workers Welfare Board.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/stone-of-bus-stand-building-laid-in-una-357956
04-01-2022||Shimla||Councillors oppose merger of rural areas||Most councillors opposed the proposal to merge rural areas into the Municipal Corporation (MC) in a special house convened to discuss matter here today. The councilors from the areas which were merged with the MC in 2006 were particularly against the decision.“The MC has not been able to provide facilities to the areas that were merged into the MC in 2006. We are still fighting for sewerage, water, parking, ambulance road, etc,” said Diwakar Sharma, councillor from Majaith. “When the MC doesn’t have enough funds to provide facilities to the areas merged 15 years ago, why it wants to take on additional liabilities”.Govt only eyeing tax revenue: CPMThe old merged areas are still facing the consequences. The government considers houses in merged areas as illegal and people get water and power connections on commercial rates. The government just wants to generate tax by merging rural areas. —Kuldeep Tanwar, CPM leaderMeanwhile, some councilors felt that the gram sabhas should take the final call on the issue. “No one should be forced to merge with the Municipal Corporation. If the proposal is passed in the gram sabha, only then the government should consider merger of the particular area,” said Simi Nanda, a councillor from Nabha.Apart from the councillors, the CPM is also opposed to merging rural areas into the MC. “The old merged areas are still facing the consequences of the merger. The government considers houses in merged areas illegal and people get water and electricity connections on commercial rates. The government just wants to generate tax by merging rural areas,” said Kuldeep Tanwar, CPM leader.“If the government merges the areas forcibly, the CPM will launch an agitation,” said Tanwar.—TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/councillors-oppose-merger-of-rural-areas-357952
04-01-2022||Subhash Rajta||Omicron: Himachal Government mulls own genome sequencing labs||Tribune News ServiceShimla, January 3The delay in getting reports from the genome sequencing facility in Delhi is causing concern among health officials in the state. “We are getting reports late, it takes anywhere between 15 and 20 days,” said NHM Director Hemraj Bairwa. To overcome the threat of omicron, the government is considering opening genome sequencing labs in the state.“These machines have to be imported from abroad. We have verbally requested the Central Government to import these machines for us as well, it will help us a lot,” said Secretary Health Amitabh Awasthi. The state intends to set up the labs in Shimla, Tanda and Mandi.The delay in the report was witnessed in the case of the state’s first and only omicron case so far, a 45-year-old woman from Mandi who had come from Canada. As per the Health Department, the woman had tested negative for Covid by the time her sample tested positive for omicron.Minister for Health Rajiv Saizal also accepted there was delay in reports from the NCDC, Delhi. “It’s perhaps because the facility is getting too many samples. Anyway, we will send a request to release results as soon as possible,” said Saizal.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/govt-mulls-own-genome-sequencing-labs-357951
04-01-2022||---||Shimla MP Suresh Kashyap takes up Hattee issue with MHA||Solan, January 3Shimla MP Suresh Kashyap today raised the issue of grant of the Schedule Tribe (ST) status to the Hattee community of the trans-Giri area of Sirmaur with the Additional Registrar General of India (ARGI), Union Ministry of Home Affairs.This has been a key poll issue for the past several years in the trans-Giri area of Sirmaur and the ruling BJP was facing flak for having failed to get the demand fulfilled. Hattee leaders have now threatened to prohibit the entry of politicians in their 144 panchayats if their demand was not met. This has sent alarm bells ringing as the Assembly elections are due at the year end.The state government has been pursuing the case since 2016 with little success. The Tran-Giri area was part of the erstwhile Jaunsar Bawar area of Uttarakhand where the Hattee community has been granted the ST status. Both areas were part of the royal Sirmaur stateOnly Kinnaur enjoys the ST status. Since granting the tribal status to the area requires a constitutional amendment, the issue requires an in-depth analysis of the situation. Former Shimla MP Virender Kashyap had also pursued the case with the Central Government without success.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/mp-takes-up-hattee-issue-with-mha-357950
04-01-2022||Broken pedestrian paths leading to the Tungal colony from Jail road in Mandi town have become a cause for concern for pedestrians as well as motorcyclists. There is a need to cover the potholes to make this path smooth. The Mandi Municipal Corporation authorities should carry out the needful repairs on this path for the convenience of commuters. — Rajesh Kumar||Pedestrian paths in bad shape||Potable water ScarcitySince the last month, there has been a shortage of water in McLeodganj. In some residential areas, people are not getting enough water for drinking and other household purposes due to unequal supply. While the water tanks of some hotels and guest houses are overflowing, others are not getting enough water for their daily needs. The officials should check this unequal distribution of water. — Parveen Sharma, McLeodganjWhat our readers sayIs a civic issue bothering you? Are you agitated over the lack of concern? Is there something heartening that you feel needs to be highlighted? Or a picture which in your opinion ought to be seen by many, and not just you?The Tribune invites its readers to have their say. Email at: hpreadersfeedback@tribunemail.com||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/pedestrian-paths-in-bad-shape-357949
04-01-2022||Shimla||137 new cases, one death in Himachal||As many as 137 Covid cases were reported in the state today, taking the tally to 229,153. Besides, one person died of the virus in Hamipur.The highest 43 cases were recorded in Kangra, followed by 17 in Solan, 16 in Una, 15 in Shimla, 10 in Bilaspur, nine in Hamirpur, eight each in Chamba and Kullu, seven in Mandi, two in Lahaul and Spiti and one each in Sirmaur and Kinnaur.—TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/137-new-cases-one-death-in-himachal-357946
04-01-2022||---||Shoolini University in top band of Atal rankings||Solan, January 3The Shoolini University of Biotechnology and Management Sciences, Solan, has been placed in the highest band of excellent category in the Atal Rankings of Institutions on Innovations and Achievements.The rankings were announced recently by the Union Education Ministry. It evaluates institutions of higher learning annually for their performances with regard to innovations and achievements.As many as 36 of 1,200 universities in the country have found a place in this band. Shoolini University is among the top five in the northern region and the only one from Himachal.Chancellor PK Khosla said that the government as well as people were recognising the pioneering work being done by the university in the state.Vice-Chancellor Atul Khosla said that the university missed the top 10 ranks in the country by a whisker. Last year, it was placed the six to 25 band and was the only private university from Himachal Pradesh to be ranked as such.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/shoolini-varsity-in-top-band-of-atal-rankings-357939
04-01-2022||Abhinav Vashisht||Stroll, photography banned on sacred Seolsar lake in Kullu||KULLU, JANUARY 3Photography and walking with shoes on the frozen religiously significant Seolsar lake, located at an altitude of 10,280 feet, has been banned after some pictures of tourists wandering wearing shoes on the frozen lake went viral on the social media. The lake is spread over a diameter of about one kilometer and is approachable on foot from Jalori Jot on the border of Banjar and Anni subdivision.Devotees from all over the country and abroad come here in large numbers. After the fulfillment of the vow, people take off their shoes and drink holy water from the lake. The lake is worshiped by offering incense and flowers.Rinku Singh Rana, Kardar of Budhi Nagin Mata temple located in Seolsar, said that the temple committee has banned photography and walking over the frozen lake from today. The lake has mythical importance and is sacred. The decision has been taken in view of the religious belief, he said and appealed to the local people and guides associated with tourism to give instructions to their guests so that the sanctity of religious places was not compromised.Rana said that recently it came to the notice that tourists who came along with local people entered the frozen lake for their entertainment with shoes and did photography. The temple committee has expressed displeasure over violation of the deity tradition. He said that this had hurt the religious sentiments of thousands of devotees of the Anni, Banjar and Mandi area.The temple committee has warned that it will be forced to take strict steps if anyone violates the ban.The residents said that this could result in a mishap if the layer of the lake is ruptured. Sunil and Suresh, local residents, said that all the people associated with tourism business should apprise the tourists about the customs and culture prevalent here so that religious sentiments of people were not hurt.Banjar Sub Divisional Magistrate Hem Chand Verma said that the administration would take action against erring tourists as per rules.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/stroll-photography-banned-on-sacred-seolsar-lake-357958
04-01-2022||Palampur||Makeshift Covid care centre at Kandwari opposed||Residents of the Kandwari area, 10 km from here, yesterday held a protest over the decision of the district administration to set up a Covid care hospital in their village.They said that the site selected by the administration for the creation of a 200-bed Covid care hospital was too close to the residential areas and the virus could spread in the village. Therefore, the government should review its decision.The Radha Soami Satsang management, following a dispute with the district administration, had served a notice on it seeking vacation of its complex at Paror, where a 300-bed makeshift Covid care hospital, the biggest in the state, had been functional since May last. After the closure of the Paror centre, the Kangra administration has no big Covid care centre to accommodate patients if Covid cases rise due to the third wave expected in February.The administration had selected a piece of land belonging the state Health Department adjoining the Zonal Leprosy Hospital, Kandwari, near Palampur for a new makeshift Covid care hospital. It had planned to shift infrastructure from Paror to Kandwari. However, following opposition by villagers, the hospital at Kandwari looks difficult.Navi Zila Parishad member from Kandwari and Sarit head of local NGO Avishkar said most villagers were not in favour a Covid hospital in their area. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/makeshift-covid-care-centre-at-kandwari-opposed-357957
04-01-2022||Our Correspondent||10 khair trees felled in Indora, two held||Nurpur, January 3The police today registered a forest wealth theft case on a complaint filed by the Forest Division Officer, Mangwal, in Indora subdivision of Kangra district.The police also arrested two persons, identified as Ashok Kumar and Chataro Ram, both residents of Churah in Chamba district, while their accomplices were still at large.According to information, a Forest Department team was on night patrolling in Balkhor forest near Dahkulara last night. It suspected that trees were being cut with a saw. The team started a search in the forest and reached the spot at 3 am. It nabbed two of the accused, who were illegally felling khair trees. It also seized 35 khair wood logs prepared by felling 10 trees.DSP, Nurpur, Surinder Sharma said that the Forest Department had handed over the seized logs and the nabbed culprits to the Indora police. He added that a manhunt had been launched for the absconding culprits.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/10-khair-trees-felled-in-indora-two-held-357954
04-01-2022||---||5 cases okayed under Forest Rights Act||Shimla, January 3Today was a red-letter day for tribals of Kinnaur as five cases were approved under the Forest Rights Act (FRA), 2006 after a long gap. The cases were sanctioned at the meeting of the district-level committee headed by Deputy Commissioner (Kinnaur) constituted under the FRA.Over a period of time the tribals were not getting the benefits under the FRA. Deputy Commissioner Abid Hussain Sadiq today accepted the long-pending demand of tribals for restoring the rights by sanctioning five individual cases in Malling village under Pooh subdivision of Kinnaur district. Seven cases were taken up but two cases pertained to community rights.How will it benefit forest communitiesThe panchayat pradhans have been urged to get all the formalities and claims completed by the sub-divisional Forest Rights Committees and send the same to district FRA committee for further action, he said adding that a scheme has also been prepared to create awareness among tribals about their rights under FRA.The Forest Rights Act, 2006 recognises the rights of the forest dwelling tribal communities and other traditional forest dwellers to forest resources, on which these communities were dependent for a variety of needs, including livelihood, habitation and other socio-cultural needs.The Act also recognises the symbiotic relationship of the Scheduled Tribes (STs) with the forests, reflected in their dependence on the forest as well as in their traditional wisdom regarding conservation of the forests. It also provides rights to allocation of forest land for developmental purposes to fulfill basic infrastructural needs of the community.Under the provisions of the Act, Gram Sabha and rights holders are held responsible for conservation and protection of bio-diversity, wildlife, forests, adjoining catchment areas, water sources and other ecologically sensitive areas as well as to stop any destructive practices affecting these resources or cultural and natural heritage of the tribals.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/5-cases-okayed-under-forest-rights-act-357953
04-01-2022||---||90,531 children jabbed against Covid in Himachal on day 1||Shimla/Mandi, January 3The campaign to vaccinate children in the 15-18 age group got off to a flying start with 90,531 children taking the jab on the first day. Given that the Health Department had planned to vaccinate about 30,000 to 40,000 children per day, the high turnout has come as a pleasant surprise for them. “It shows people were anxiously waiting for the vaccination to begin for children. It makes perfect sense to get your children vaccinated soon as the threat of Omicron is round the corner,” said Secretary Health Amitabh Awasthi.Incidentally, health officials were expecting hesitancy from parents, at least in the first few days of the campaign. “We thought the campaign will take a few days to pick up pace. However, the first day numbers show there will be no problem in vaccinating this group,” said Awasthi.The maximum doses were administered in Kangra, with as many as 20,895 children taking the jab. Mandi and Kullu took the second and third spot on the list with 14,429 and 10,804 doses. Kinnaur and Lahaul-Spiti recorded the lowest vaccination with 423 and 283 doses, respectively.The state has indentified around 4.5 lakh beneficiaries in this category, and has set a deadline of January 15 to vaccinate all of them.Earlier, Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur today launched the statewide Covid-19 vaccination campaign for children belonging to the age group of 15-18 years at Government Vijay Senior Secondary School (Boys). Mandi. Ravi Kumar, a Class XII student of the school, was the first to get jabbed.Later, while interacting with mediapersons, the Chief Minister appealed to the people to come forward for their inoculation. In Himachal Pradesh, about 3.57 lakh children in the age group of 15-18 years would be administered the vaccine.Thakur said as many as 4,259 educational institutions (2,801 government and 1,402 private schools and 56 other institutions) would be covered under the campaign. The government was keeping an eye on new variants Delta and Omicron and all preventative measures would be taken to check their spread, he added.Dr Sadhna Thakur, Chief Minister’s wife, MLAs Anil Sharma, Rakesh Jamwal and Inder Singh Gandhi, Mandi Mayor Deepali Jaswal, Deputy Commissioner Arindam Chaudhary, SP Shalini Agnihotri, CMO Dr Devender Sharma were present on the occasion.Chamba: Deputy Commissioner DC Rana on Monday started the Covid vaccination campaign from Government Boys’ Senior Secondary School here.A total of 48 vaccination centres had been established in the district mainly in schools, polytechnic institutes and ITIs had been identified. Students who could not come to school due to any reason or pupils of schools closed for the winter break must visit their nearest vaccination centre to get inoculated, he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/90-531-children-jabbed-on-day-1-357948
04-01-2022||---||New sports policy to develop infra, promote talent in Himachal: Jai Ram Thakur||Mandi, January 3Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur inaugurated the four-day Women North Zone Inter University Kabaddi Championship at the Paddal Ground here today.He said that the event would provide an appropriate platform to kabaddi players from different states to showcase their skills and they would get an opportunity to participate in national and Asian games.Thakur said a new Sports Policy would be implemented in the state to promote sports, encourage talented youth and develop sports infrastructure, which would benefit the players in a big way.The state government was making efforts to nurture sports talent, he said. Under the Mukhyamantri Yuva Khel Protsahan Yojana, one playing field had been constructed in every Assembly segment, he added.“To provide employment to talented sportspersons, the state government has made a provision of three per cent reservation under which 220 players excelling in different sports have been provided jobs in various departments, corporations and boards,” he said.Thakur said that Rs 7.39 crore had been spent on organising various sports activities in the state in the past four years, Rs 76.81 crore spent on creating modern sports infrastructure and Rs 4.59 crore had been spent on mobilising additional facilities and infrastructure.He lauded the players who had brought laurels to the state at the national and international levels in various sports events. He exhorted the youth to take advantage of the opportunities available in the sports sector for a bright career and all round development of their personality.YP Sharma, principal of Vallabh Government Postgraduate College, felicitated the Chief Minister and other dignitaries. Programme coordinator Sunil Sen gave detailed information about the championship. He said that about 400 girl students from 32 universities of the country were participating in the championship.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/new-sports-policy-to-develop-infra-promote-talent-thakur-357945
04-01-2022||---||Volvo buses parked on roadside cause traffic snarls in Dharamsala||Dharamsala, January 3Contract carriage buses operating from Dharamsala stop on the roads along the Maximus Mall for passengers. These buses can be seen parked along the roadsides everyday from 6 pm to 8 pm, often leading to jams on the main road to the Kotwali Bazaar in the city.Rajesh Kumar, a resident of Kotwali area, says that Volvo buses parked along the main road for long cause inconvenience to commuters. The matter has been reported to the police many a time but no traffic policeman has been posted there to stop illegal parking of these buses. Besides, the area has also become a permanent taxi stand as passengers of contract carriage buses use the service, he adds.Plaints filed in vainSurinder Sharma, another resident of Dharamsala, alleges that though the Himachal Road Transport Corporation (HRTC) is not allowed to use multi-axle buses, private contract carriage operators are openly operating such buses.Sources in the Transport Department say that contract carriage buses are being operated illegally. They allege that these buses are authorised to take groups of tourists from one destination to another. However, in Dharamsala, they are operating as route permit buses.Interestingly, the HRTC has, on several occasions, lodged complaints with the Transport Department against illegal plying of such buses, which eats into its revenue. However, no action has been taken. Kangra SP Khushal Sharma was not available for his comments.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/volvo-buses-parked-on-roadside-cause-traffic-snarls-in-dsala-357944
04-01-2022||Our Correspondent||Helicopter flight sought to Pangi||Chamba, January 3Congress leader Kartar Singh Thakur has slammed the BJP government for extending step-motherly treatment towards Chamba district, especially Pangi tribal area, which was being deprived of a regular helicopter flight from the district headquarters for the past two years. As a result, people had to travel a long way through Jammu and Kashmir while travelling between Chamba and Pangi in winters.In a handout released here today, Kartar Singh demanded a regular helicopter flight from Chamba to Pangi tribal area. If their demand was not met, the area residents would resort to agitation against the regional imbalance in development, he said. Pangi region remained cut off from the rest of the state due to heavy snowfall for about four-five months a year.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/helicopter-flight-sought-to-pangi-357943
04-01-2022||Shimla||Ujjwala, Himachal Grihini Suvidha Yojanas boon to women||The Ujjwala Yojana and the Himachal Grihini Suvidha scheme of the Central and state governments, respectively, have proved to be a boon to the people of the state. Himachal has become the first in the country to become a smoke-free state, a spokesperson for the state government said here yesterday.The Ujjwalla Yojana was started by the Union Government with the view to freeing women of the country from indoor pollution. Besides, the HP Government also started the Grihini Suvidha Yojana to benefit as many women as possible under the scheme.Under the Ujjwala Yojana, 1.36 lakh free domestic connections were given in the state at a cost of Rs 21.81 crore, while under the Grihini Suvidha Yojana, 3.23 lakh housewives were provided free gas cylinders at a cost of Rs 120 crore.The Mukhya Mantri Grihini Suvidha Yojana was launched on May 26, 2018. With the concerted efforts of the Central and state governments, the women of the state had become free from indoor pollution. Besides, to conserve environment, a free LPG connection was given to families with no gas connection, he added. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/ujjwala-grihini-suvidha-yojanas-boon-to-women-357942
04-01-2022||Bhanu P Lohumi||Manav Bharti University sold fake degrees in 13 states through agents, 16 held||Tribune News ServiceShimla, January 3Manav Bharti University (MBU), Solan, had sold fake degrees in 13 states through agents, who acted as conduits and shared the names of buyers with its officials. The former Registrar of the university maintained a separate diary with entries of cash transactions and fake students. So far, 16 persons have been arrested in the racket.Investigation by a special investigation team (SIT) of the CID has pointed out that fake degrees were sold in Himachal Pradesh, Haryana, Punjab, Delhi, Uttar Pradesh, Jammu and Kashmir, Rajasthan, Uttarakhand, Tamil Nadu, Kerala, Karnataka and two other states between Rs 1 lakh and Rs 3 lakh.Key pointsThe agents used to deposit the daily collections with the university officials and the Whatsapp details of the transactions were sent to the Chairman of the Manav Bharti Charitable Trust, Raj Kumar Rana, sources said. After a perusal of the digital evidence and matching with the parameters of genuine degrees, so far about 50,000 degrees are suspected to be fake and 50 of 55 hard disks recovered have been scanned by forensic experts after retrieving the deleted data.During the course of investigation, the SIT had also recovered blank copies, unchecked answer sheets, certificates of courses not offered by the university and mark sheets with over-writing without the signature of the evaluator from Madhav University (Rajasthan), a sister concern of the MBU.Till now, 16 persons, including promoter of MBU Raj Kumar Rana, former Registrar of the university Sarika, who maintained the diary of cash transactions, four main agents, namely Himanshu Sharma (Gurgaon), Pankaj Aggarwal (Faridabad), Rajiv Goel (Bathinda) and Abhishek Gupta (Chandigarh), had been arrested said IGP (CID) Atul Fulzele.The other accused (officials of the university and middlemen) arrested in the case were Krishan Kumar, Pramod Kumar, Kewal Sharma, Manish Goel, Mohit Rana, Ajay Kumar, Shashipal, Anupam Thakur, Manu Singh and Sudha Pandey. All of them are out on bail. Notices have been served on them and further investigation is underway.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/mbu-sold-fake-degrees-in-13-states-through-agents-16-held-357941
04-01-2022||Shimla||Icy winds lash Shimla, hail likely today||Strong velocity icy winds lashed Shimla and adjoining areas today and people shivered even as the sun shone under a partially clouded sky. The MeT office issued a yellow warning of a thunderstorm, lightning and a hailstorm over plains, low and mid hills on January 4 and a thunderstorm and heavy rain or snowfall in mid and high hills on January 5.Under the influence of an intense western disturbance from January 3, a thunderstorm, lightning and a hailstorm may occur over plains, low and mid hills on January 4 and a thunderstorm and lightning were likely in plains and low hills, heavy rain or snowfall in mid and high hills on January 5. So, there was likelihood of disruption in essential services, low visibility conditions and possibility of landslides, the advisory issued by the MeT office said. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/icy-winds-lash-shimla-hail-likely-today-357940
04-01-2022||Abhinav Vashisht||Manali Winter Carnival: 'Maha nati' mesmerises tourists||KULLU, JANUARY 3Women donning the local attire enthralled the audience by performing ‘maha nati’ at the Mall on the second day of the Winter Carnival in Manali today. Hundreds of women of over 80 mahila mandals performed ‘nati’ for over one hour, which remained the centre of attraction for tourists and locals alike.Education Minister Govind Thakur said Kullu’s ‘nati’ was world famous and the traditional attire worn at the time of the dance form was very attractive. He appreciated the efforts of the organisers to promote tourism and preserve the folk culture.The minister said the Winter Carnival had immense significance in view of tourism, trade and preservation of traditional beliefs and culture. The carnival provided a platform to various artistes of different states to showcase their talent, he added.Various artistes gave cultural performances at Manu Rangshala, an open air auditorium. The audience lauded the old songs presented by the singers. The artistes from Lahaul also amused the spectators with their traditional presentations.Several colourful programmes were presented at the auditorium during the first cultural evening yesterday. Ladakhi dance by students of Himalayan Buddhist School, 15 Mile, was well appreciated. Himachali folk singer Neeru Chandni won applause by presenting Lahauli and other songs. Sumit and his group also mesmerized the audience.Artistes from Chandigarh University impressed the audience with their Punjabi dance, while the artistes of Kangra Kala Manch presented ‘Jhamakra’. The audience was left spell-bound by the performance of Nepali folk dance.The participants of Voice of Carnival, who came from all over the state along with folk artistes, also regaled the audience. Students of Monal Public School, Aleo, garnered a lot of applause by performing Punjabi dance. The audience applauded the folk dance of Kullu by Jagatsukh Mahila Mandal. Artistes of Jyoti group presented a group dance. ‘Gaddi’ dance was performed by artistes from Dharamsala.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/maha-nati-mesmerises-tourists-357938
