05-01-2022||Vijay Mohan||North India gets surplus rain, but temperature remains above normal||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, January 5As many parts of North India experienced the first rain of 2022 over the past 24 hours, the average minimum temperature remained above normal by several degrees in the sub-Himalayan belt and the plains.While rain in the first five days of January was above the long period average in Himachal Pradesh and Punjab 85 per cent and 13 per cent, respectively, it was 71 percent below normal in Haryana.The cumulative rainfall recorded since January 1 in Himachal Pradesh was 14.9 mm against the normal of 8.1 mm for this period, according to data compiled by the India Meteorological Department (IMD). Punjab received 2 mm rain against the normal of 1.8 mm, while Haryana recorded 0.5 mm against the normal of 1.8 mm.As far as precipitation during the past 24 hours is concerned, IMD data showed that there has been a massive surplus in the aforementioned three states. Rain has been above normal by 650 percent in Himachal, 283 percent in Punjab and 73 percent in Haryana, IMD data showed.According to IMD, the minimum temperatures remained above normal by 2 to 5 degree Celsius over most parts of north India during the past 24 hours. The weatherman does not expect any significant change in minimum temperatures during the next 4-5 days and nor is there any prediction of a cold wave over north India in this period.The wet spell over northwest India is expected to continue till January 9 due to two consecutive active western disturbances. A western disturbance lies over Afghanistan and its neighbourhood while an induced cyclonic circulation lies over southwest Rajasthan and adjoining Pakistan, with moisture feeding from Arabian Sea over northwest India. This will result in widespread light to moderate rain or snow continuing over many parts of north India on January 5.Thereafter, an intense western disturbance is very likely to affect northwest India from the night of January 6 onwards, leading to widespread rain or snow over the western Himalayan region as well as plains of Punjab and Haryana during January 7-9, the IMD has predicted.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/nation/north-india-gets-surplus-rain-but-temperature-remains-above-normal-358460
05-01-2022||Mandi (HP)||Advocate burnt to death in house fire in Mandi village||A 45-year-old advocate burnt to death in a fire that broke out in his house in Mandi district, a police official said on Wednesday.The fire broke out at the house of the deceased, Lokesh Sharma, in Ghiri village in Sundernagar sub-division on Tuesday night, they said.According to police, the body recovered from the house was gutted so bad that its identity could not be established.A forensic team was called and samples of bones and flesh were lifted for DNA test to establish the identity of the deceased, a senior police officer said.The police received the information about the fire on Wednesday morning.By the time fire tenders were rushed to the spot, the seven-room house was gutted. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/advocate-burnt-to-death-in-house-fire-in-mandi-village-358438
05-01-2022||Tribune Web DeskChandigarh||Due to snowfall in upper reaches of Shimla, roads closed||Due to snowfall in the upper reaches of Shimla, the roads are completely closed at Khidki, Narkanda and Kharapathar, the Shimla police tweeted on Wednesday. Apart from this, the road in Kufri is slippery.Shimla police requested people not to travel on the above routes.In case of any emergency please contact on 01772812344, 112 or nearest police station, it said in the statement.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/due-to-snowfall-in-upper-reaches-of-shimla-roads-closed-358422
05-01-2022||The ongoing construction activities on the Cart Road||Traffic snarls||— Anuj, ShimlaHomestay owners exploiting touristsA few homestay owners in areas beyond Shimla are charging arbitrary amounts from tourists these days. Close to New Year, there was a huge rush of tourists. The owners are taking advantage of the situation and have raised the tariff from Rs 2,000 to Rs 6,000. — Rohan , ShimlaWhat our readers sayIs a civic issue bothering you? Are you agitated over the lack of concern? Is there something heartening that you feel needs to be highlighted? Or a picture which in your opinion ought to be seen by many, and not just you?The Tribune invites its readers to have their say. Email at:hpreadersfeedback @tribunemail.com||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/traffic-snarls-358302
05-01-2022||The department of Higher Education has asked the private universities||Details sought for scholarship schemes||SFI submits memorandum to HPUHimachal Pradesh University (HPU) unit of the Students' Federation of India (SFI) has threatened to launch an agitation and gherao the university administration in case results of Bachelor of Physical Education (BPEd) and other postgraduate courses are not declared. The SFI submitted a memorandum to the Controller of Examination, demanding declaration of results and pointed out that the examinations were held more than six months ago, but the results were not declared. Students seeking admission in MPEd were worried, said the president, SFI campus unit.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/details-sought-for-scholarship-schemes-358300
05-01-2022||Solan||Car falls into gorge, 1 dead||One person was killed and two were injured when the car fell into a 50-metre gorge near the Barog tunnel on the Kumarhatti-Solan highway, at 3 am today. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/car-falls-into-gorge-1-dead-358299
05-01-2022||Chamba||NGO seeks IAS officer for Pangi||The demand for the posting of an IAS officer as Resident Commissioner (RC) of Pangi subdivision in Chamba district has resurfaced.In 1986, the state government had created the post of Resident Commissioner, Pangi. Subhash Negi, who was Deputy Commissioner, Chamba, was appointed RC, Pangi. The post was manned by IAS officers till 2002. Pangwal Ekta Manch chairman Trilok Thakur has urged the Chief Minister that an IAS officer having 9 years of service be posted as the RC, Pangi.—OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/ngo-seeks-ias-officer-for-pangi-358298
05-01-2022||Shimla||Shimla: Sanctuary in Sunni to house 700 cows||A cow sanctuary constructed at a cost of Rs 2.20 crore on 35 bighas in the Sunni area of Shimla district will be opened this month. The sanctuary, housing 700 cows, will be developed into a breeding centre for indigenous breeds such as Pahadi (Gauri), Gir, Red Sindhi, Sahiwal and Tharparkar.Efforts are being made to provide a safe place to bovines, with facilities of drinking water as well as dry and green fodder. Essential veterinary services, including identification of animals with ear tagging, will also be provided to develop it into a tourist attraction.The sanctuary will have a biogas plant to take care of its energy requirements for fuel, light and water pumping. It will prepare biofertilisers and biopesticides, which can be sold to local farmers at concessional rate. This will be the sixth cow sanctuary in the state.—TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/sanctuary-in-sunni-to-house-700-cows-358297
05-01-2022||---||260 new Covid cases, no death in Himachal Pradesh||Shimla, January 4As many as 260 Covid cases were reported in the state today, taking the tally to 229,431. However, there was no death due to the virus.The highest number of 104 cases was recorded in Kangra, followed by 32 in Shimla, 30 in Una, 20 in Mandi, 18 in Solan, 16 in Sirmaur, 11 each in Kullu and Hamirpur, seven in Bilaspur, six in Chamba, three in Lahaul and Spiti and two in Kinnaur. The number of active cases rose to 851.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/260-new-cases-no-death-in-himachal-pradesh-358295
05-01-2022||Ambika Sharma||Himachal Pradesh first flower mandi comes up at Parwanoo||Tribune News ServiceSolan, January 4The state’s first flower mandi has been set up at the Agriculture Produce Marketing Committee (APMC) marketing yard, Parwanoo, to facilitate the growers from Solan, Sirmaur, Shimla and Mandi districts.To open tomorrowTen shops, an auction platform, a parking lot for 100 vehicles and civic amenities have been created at a cost of Rs 2.5 crore. Spread across five bigha, the mandi is ideally located on the Kalka-Shimla expressway at Parwanoo.Sanjeev Kashyap, chairman, APMC, Solan, said, “In a bid to facilitate the floriculturists of the state, a meeting headed by the Chief Minister was held with the floriculturists of the state as well as those engaged in its sale at Gazipur flower mandi in Delhi to chalk out its nitty-gritty earlier this year. It has taken final shape now and set up in the marketing yard of the APMC, Parwanoo, where adequate space is available.”It will be inaugurated on January 6 and will pave way for sale of flowers from Himachal for the first time.The growers have been selling their produce at Ghazipur mandi in Delhi as well as in other markets in North India which is channeled through wholesalers and slew of retailers.The agro-climatic conditions offer apt opportunities for the development of floriculture to serve the internal off season market. The potential for exports, however, is yet to be tapped.Floriculture products like cut flowers, bulbs, seeds, live plants, etc. can be produced as cash crops. Although flowers from different agro climatic zones of the state can be made available all through the year for domestic market, export quality flower produce can be ensured only by cultivation under controlled environment conditions of greenhouses.Growers, however, say that, “The opening of the floral market is a welcome step but it remains to be seen how the sale would be transacted as it could add another step to the already multi-layered system.”“If the entire sale of flowers, especially carnations, is done through this mandi it could help create monopoly of the state’s produce and help fetch better returns,” observed Kuldeep, a grower from Mahog in Chail which is the hub of floriculture.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/states-first-flower-mandi-comes-up-at-parwanoo-358294
05-01-2022||---||To boost research, CSK HP Agriculture University appoints 32 scientists||Our CorrespondentPalampur, January 4To strengthen teaching and research activities, CSK HP Agriculture University has appointed 32 scientists and the process to fill 84 posts of teaching and non-teaching staff is underway, said Prof HK Chaudhary, Vice-Chancellor, while addressing mediapersons here today.He said, “Last year, the university had filled 56 posts of scientist and 23 posts of non-teaching staff. In last fortnight, interviews were conducted for 32 posts of scientist and appointment orders were also issued.Of the newly recruited scientists, 14 have been posted at the university research stations situated in Kinnaur, Lahaul and Spiti, Chamba and other districts. This will accelerate research activities and help in the conservation and propagation of rich bio-resources of the state”.Chaudhary said that the National Education Policy warrants that the number of students should increase so that the staff strength could also be increased gradually. Besides recruiting three teachers, the university was making all-out efforts to declare the results and complete the recruitment process for 81 posts of junior office assistant, clerk, field assistant, etc. this month.He said that the university had also initiated work to demonstrate integrated farming systems to the farmers of the state and through startups young entrepreneurs were being encouraged to take up scientific farming.He said the scarcity of fodder was a problem for livestock keepers in the state and for the first time, the university had been able to prepare 4,500 quintals of silage in 15 silo pits. Now, the farmers would be demonstrated and trained in this simple technology.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/to-boost-research-farm-varsity-appoints-32-scientists-358293
05-01-2022||---||Kullu-Bijli Mahadev road to be widened||Abhinav VashishtKullu, January 4The Public Works Department (PWD) has prepared a detailed project report (DPR) to widen the 20.6 km Ramshila-Bijli Mahadev road at a cost of Rs 27 crore. There is a plan to widen the road from Ramshila to Trambali to 5.5 metres and further to 3.75 metres till Gobha, the last motorable point before Bijli Mahadev.To cost Rs27 croreKK Sharma, Superintending Engineer, PWD, Kullu, says that the road will be upgraded under the Pradhan Mantri Gram Sadak Yojana (PMGSY-III) and the Central Government will provide 90 per cent funds while the state government will give 10 per cent.He says that the DPR was sent to the State Technical Advisory team at the NIT-Hamirpur and the permission had been received. Now, the file has been sent to the National Rural Infrastructure Development Agency, Delhi, for the final approval.He says, “After getting the nod from the NRIDA, the work will begin”. Bijli Mahadev witnesses a heavy influx of devotees and tourists, especially from April to September. Commuters get stuck in traffic jams for hours together due to the narrow single-lane road. During the apple season, even big trucks ply on the road, causing more trouble to commuters.There was a proposal to widen the road but nothing happened, leading to resentment among the people of the Kharal valley. They are demanding widening of the road as the traffic load has increased manifold.A ropeway to Bijli Mahadev is also proposed and many surveys have been done. Even the work was awarded, but nothing had been done yet.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/kullu-bijli-mahadev-road-to-be-widened-358292
05-01-2022||Subhash Rajta||Rs 300 crore projects shelved under Smart City Mission||Tribune News ServiceShimla, January 4Shimla Smart City Mission has dropped projects worth Rs 300 crore from its list. Out of the projects worth Rs 1,000 crore that it had funded or was supposed to fund, it will now finance projects worth Rs 700 crore. The decision to shelve several projects was taken in the meeting of Board of Directors of Shimla Smart City Mission today.Unfeasible projects scrapped, says GMThose projects were shelved which were either not feasible or had not received the required clearances, mainly forest related. — Brahm Prakash, GM (technical), Smart city“Those projects were shelved which were either not feasible, or had not received the required clearances, mainly forest related,” said Brahm Prakash, GM (Technical), Smart City. “Funding for Shimla Jal Prabandhan Nigam Limited’s project is also among the shelved projects. As the World Bank is funding the SJPNL project, the BoD decided to withdraw from the project,” said the GM.The BoD, however, has not shut the door completely on these projects. “The Chief Secretary said these projects could still be considered if the departments concerned bring a feasible proposal with the required clearances before March 31,” said Brahm Prakash.The Shimla Smart City Mission is looking to complete all its projects by June 2023, and hence appears unwilling to fund any project whose work is not awarded by March 2022. “The Central government has instructed us to complete the projects by June 2023. The projects whose work has not been awarded by March are unlikely to be completed by next June, 2023. That’s the reason why the BoD is insisting on awarding the work of all projects before March 31,” he said.In other developments in the meeting, the BoD has suggested the beautification of huge concrete walls that have come up following the widening of roads, mainly on the circular road. “The concerned departments have been asked to explore ways to beautify these walls. Options like paintings, using creepers, etc, were discussed,” the GM said.Also discussed during the meeting were the proposals to build a flyover at the Victory Tunnel to ease traffic, the proposed road from Hotel Holiday Home to the bypass road, and the construction of Municipal Corporation office. “The directors assured us that the MC office will be constructed under Smart City Mission,” said Mayor Satya Kaundal.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/300-crore-projects-shelved-under-smart-city-mission-358291
05-01-2022||Dipender Manta||Himachal: Ice climbing at Commander Nullah in Lahaul gets popular||Tribune News ServiceMandi, January 4The Commander Nullah near Keylong in Lahaul and Spiti district has emerged as a key hotspot for ice climbing. Ice climbing enthusiasts are thronging the nullah to enjoy the activity. This place is situated 4 km from the district headquarters of Keylong.The Himalayan Outdoor Climbing Initiative Foundation of Uttarakhand is organising the activity in collaboration with the Himalayan Escapade, Keylong.Sunil Bodh, a resident of Lahaul who is involved in ice climbing training at the Commander Nullah, says, “This place has emerged as a major attraction for tourists as well as ice climbing lovers. We are providing training to youth about ice climbing at the nullah, which is a suitable place for the activity”.He said that tourists were visiting this place to enjoy ice climbing. Tashi Barongpa, secretary of Hoteliers Association, Lahaul, says, “Ice climbing has opened doors of self-employment for the local youth. Around eight local youths are involved in ice climbing. After the opening of the Atal Tunnel, tourists from Manali can access Lahaul round the year”.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/ice-climbing-at-commander-nullah-in-lahaul-gets-popular-358289
05-01-2022||---||Theog MLA Rakesh Singha flays transfer of doctors||Tribune News ServiceShimla, January 4Rakesh Singha, MLA from Theog, has protested the transfer of three doctors from the Civil Hospital, Theog. “It’s the most irrational decision of the Health Department taken in the name of rationalisation of staff,” he said.Singha said that minor surgeries had started in the Civil Hospital, Theog, after an MD (Anaesthesia) doctor was deputed at the hospital.“The doctor is among the three who have been transferred. In the absence of an anaesthesia specialist, minor surgeries will stop at the hospital. Now, people will have to rush to Shimla for surgeries, and poor people will suffer the most,” he added.Singha said that the Health Minister should keep the decision in abeyance, upgrade the Civil Hospital to a district hospital and provide facilities accordingly.“If the government does not withdraw this decision, we will launch an agitation, along with people having affiliation to different political parties,” he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/mla-singha-flays-transfer-of-doctors-358287
05-01-2022||---||Tibetan NGOs hold protest over Winter Olympics in China||Tribune News ServiceDharamsala, January 4Tibetan NGOs today carried out a protest in McLeodganj against the hosting of the 2022 Winter Olympics in China.Protesters raised slogans against the Chinese government and alleged that human rights of Tibetans and other minorities in China were being violated.The protesters alleged that the situation in Tibet had deteriorated dramatically and had been classified as the least-free country in the world tied with Syria. About three million Uyghurs were detained in re-education camps in China. For the past two decades, representatives of various coalition of human rights groups had been trying to inform the International Olympic Association regarding the dangers of awarding events to China.However, the IOC has ignored these and allotted the Winter Olympics event to China. The human rights groups wre protesting the hosting of the event, the protesters said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/tibetan-ngos-hold-protest-over-winter-olympics-in-china-358286
05-01-2022||Deepender Manta||AIIMS telemedicine facility for Lahaul-Spiti residents||Tribune News ServiceMandi, January 4A memorandum of understanding (MoU) was signed between AIIMS, Bilaspur, and the Lahaul-Spiti administration today for better health facilities to people of the district through the integrated tele-medicine platform. The Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR ) Centre at PGI, Chandigarh, will also be involved in it.The MoU was signed by DC, Lahaul and Spiti, Neeraj Kumar and Director of AIIMS Dr Veer Singh Negi.Neeraj Kumar told The Tribune, “The tribal district is not only the largest in the state, but geographical and climatic difficulties also remain a major hindrance in providing better healthcare to the people. In such a situation, the agreement will be a great relief for the people. The agreement is based on important components like telemedicine, diagnostic and patient care.”“AIIMS will not only cooperate in the field of healthcare but also assist in research and evaluation studies in line with the National Health Policy to ensure the effective implementation of the National Health Policy in Lahaul-Spiti,” he said.“However, the government has filled many posts of doctor in the health institutions of Lahaul and Spiti, special healthcare is yet to be available in the district. Doctors will now get direct consultation from experts of AIIMS. After the agreement, the major health institutions of the district will remain in touch with AIIMS,” he added.“The MoU was signed for five years and the district administration will ensure its cooperation to AIIMS, Bilaspur,” said the DC.AIIMS Director Dr Veer Singh Negi said AIIMS would organise special health camps in Lahaul and Spiti. The integrated telemedicine platform will ensure real-time monitoring of patients by experts. They will also give their advice by viewing the online test report.“AIIMS will also conduct research studies on diseases occurring in the high-altitude region in collaboration with the ICMR centre at Keylong,” he added.Tribal Development Minister Ram Lal Markanda also thanked Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur and Health Minister Dr Rajiv Saizal for the MoU, besides the Centre. He said it would strengthen the health services in this district.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/aiims-telemedicine-facility-for-lahaul-spiti-residents-358285
05-01-2022||Ambika Sharma||Manav Bharti University students grapple with shortage of faculty||Tribune News ServiceSolan, January 4Students pursuing various courses at Manav Bharti University near Solan are facing a shortage of faculty but are compelled to continue their studies as they can’t migrate due to the non-availability of official record.25 teachers for 300 studentsThe university is embroiled in a fake degree scam following which its administration was booked under Sections 420, 467, 468 and 120-B of the IPC in February 2020 for cheating, forgery and criminal conspiracy. The case is under trial and all relevant papers like marksheets, degrees, etc., have been seized by a special investigation team (SIT). This has stalled migration of students to other institutes.The state government had appointed an administrator to run the university to facilitate regular studies of students from October 15, 2020. No new admissions have been made for the last two years.“The fee deposited by the students is the lone source of income and no revision of fee has taken place in the last two years. Faculty members who get better options leave the job in the absence of annual salary hikes,” said Sandeep Kumar, a university official.Nearly 25 to 30 staff members have been terminated by the university since it resumed its operations and about 25 faculty members are catering to over 300 students pursuing professional courses like B Pharmacy, law, BBA, BCA and B.Com. Nearly 30 faculty members had resigned in December 2020. Though some staff was appointed last year, faculty members continued to leave from departments like pharmacy.The university has failed to start regular classroom study and only online classes are being held. This is detrimental to the interest of students pursuing pharmacy courses where lab work is an integral part of the study.Though students of practical courses like pharmacy are called for lab work, in the absence of regular classroom study, the quality of education suffers. This has put a question mark over the state government for running the university under such circumstances.Though classroom study resumed in this academic session from September in several universities, the MBU had stuck to online classes only.Sandeep, a university official, while confirming the news, said, “We are conducting online classes for the students and classroom study has not resumed as there are limited resources. Additional staff was terminated and it is not possible to bear the expenditure on running hostels, mess, etc. in the present scenario.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/mbu-students-grapple-with-shortage-of-faculty-358283
05-01-2022||---||Local artistes enthral audience, tourists perform at Manali Winter Carnival||Abhinav VashishtKullu, January 4Various cultural programmes and events were held at the Manu Rangshala on the 3rd day of the national-level Winter Carnival in Manali today despite snowfall and rain. The audience stayed put and enjoyed performances by artistes from different parts of the state and the country. The spectators lauded the performances of local artistes. Even tourists were provided a chance to participate in the festivities by performing on the stage of the Manu Rangshala just for entertainment.Cricket tournament organised for the first timeThe grooming round of all 25 participants of the Winter Queen Beauty Pageant was done at a private hotel in the afternoon. Yesterday, the final auditions were held and 25 contestants were selected. Today, they were given catwalk training under the supervision of experts. The first round of the competition of the Winter Queen, which is the highlight of the carnival, would be held at the Manu Rangshala tonight while the finale of the pageant would be held on the closing day of the festival on January 6.Various rounds of the Voice-of Carnival competition were also held in which the participants enthralled the audience with their melodious voices. There was a tough competition between 18 participants, who were selected in the auditions. The competitions of classical dance and traditional musical instruments were also held.The second cultural evening of the carnival yesterday saw folk singers Dheeraj and Rosie Sharma performing. Dheeraj enchanted everyone with a flurry of Hindi, Pahari and film songs in his melodious voice.Rosie Sharma started her presentation with a Lahauli song and mesmerised the audience with her peppy numbers. Vikrant enthralled the audience by singing nonstop and folk singer Hem Raj also entertained the audience. Anil Suryavanshi prompted the audience to dance on film and Punjabi songs.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/local-artistes-enthral-audience-tourists-perform-at-carnival-358280
05-01-2022||---||Record 7,515 vehicles crossed Atal Tunnel on New Year||Abhinav VashishtKULLU, JANUARY 4The 9.02-km-long Atal Tunnel registered a record passage of 7,515 vehicles on January 1 since its inauguration by PM Narendra Modi on October 3, 2020. The earlier record of 7,276 vehicles passing through the tunnel was registered on June 27 last year during the peak summer season.Due to the long weekend on New Year, a large number of tourists thronged Manali and a majority of them visited the Atal Tunnel, at an altitude of 10,040 feet. The tunnel provides easy access to the Lahaul valley. Lahaul and Spiti SP Manav Verma said, “Tempo travelers and SUV comprise the bulk of the traffic and it can be assumed that around 60,000 passengers crossed the tunnel in the past 24 hrs.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/record-7-515-vehicles-crossed-atal-tunnel-on-new-year-358279
05-01-2022||Dipender Manta||Traffic to Lahaul restricted due to heavy snowfall||Tribune News ServiceMandi, January 4Heavy snowfall affected normal life in Lahaul and Spiti district today, bringing traffic movement to a halt. The Lahaul and Spiti administration prohibited traffic movement towards the Lahaul valley beyond the Atal Tunnel from Manali. The Himachal Road Transport Corporation (HRTC) stopped its bus service between Kullu and Keylong via the Atal Tunnel and other local routes.The Lahaul and Spiti SP said that only 4x4 vehicles would be allowed to move between Manali and Keylong via the Atal Tunnel and within the district in emergency.Mangal Menepa, Regional Manager of the HRTC depot at Keylong, said eight routes at Keylong in Lahaul and Spiti and 12 in the Pangi region of Chamba were affected due to the fresh spell of snowfall.The Spiti region of the district was reeling under darkness because power supply lines were damaged due to heavy snowfall. Additional District Magistrate, Kaza, Mohan Dutt Sharma said, “The entire Spiti region was reeling under darkness on Tuesday because heavy snowfall in higher reaches disrupted power supply. The Spiti region has been cut off from road connectivity from the Kinnaur side, which is the only access to Spiti during the winter”. He added that as soon as weather becomes normal, the snow clearance operation would be started to restore roads.Lahaul and Spiti DC Neeraj Kumar said that people had been advised to avoid journeying toward the Lahaul valley from Manali because of heavy snowfall near the Atal Tunnel and in its nearby places. However, tourists and hoteliers in Manali town were happy, as they were desperately waiting for fresh snowfall. Manali town received snowflakes but snow did not accumulate on the ground. Nearby places of Manali such as the Solang valley and Gulaba also received snowfall.A large number of tourists are camping in Manali since December 31 for the Winter Carnival, which will conclude on January 6. Hoteliers are expecting good business in the coming days as snowfall is a major attraction for tourists.In the lower region of Mandi and Kullu districts, it rained throughout the day while higher reaches of Mandi such as the Prashar lake, Shikari Devi and Kamrunag areas received fresh snowfall. As many as 18 roads were blocked, while 59 power transformers were damaged due to snowfall in Mandi.As many as around 50 tourists were rescued by the police from Prashar Lake area today, who had been stranded due to sudden snowfall.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/traffic-to-lahaul-restricted-358278
05-01-2022||Bhanu P Lohumi||Cold wave sweeps Himachal Pradesh after snowfall in Kufri, Narkanda||Tribune News ServiceShimla, January 4The tourist destinations of Kufri, Fagu, Narkanda, Sangla and Kalpa experienced light snowfall as intense cold wave swept most parts of Himachal. Higher reaches and tribal areas had another moderate to heavy spell of snowfall and lower areas were lashed by scattered rains, causing fall in day temperatures.Traffic divertedAs many as 188 roads — 137 in Lahaul and Spiti, 18 in Mandi, 16 in Kinnaur, six in Shimla and five in Kullu — were blocked and seven water supply schemes were disrupted in the state. Vehicular traffic was obstructed on the Shimla-Rohru road near Khara Pathar, Chopal-Dehra Road near Khidki and Kufri-Chail road near Chinibangla due to snow, but the roads are opened.Only restricted movement like those of emergency vehicles is being allowed on these stretches due to slippery conditions. The commuters have been advised not to travel in slippery areas at night, said Shimla DC Aditya Negi. He said that traffic from Narkanda on the Shimla-Rampur road has been diverted via Basantpur.The tourists made a beeline to Kufri to enjoy snow as the occupancy in hotels is expected to rise. The MeT office has issued yellow warning of heavy rain and snowfall in seven districts of Chamba, Kangra, Kullu, Mandi, Shimla, Lahaul and Spiti and Kinnaur tomorrow (January 5) and five districts of Chamba, Kangra, Kullu, Lahaul and Spiti and Kinnaur on January 8.The MeT office advised farmers to protect plant and vegetable nurseries from cold and monitor mustard crop against attack of white rust. Infestation of late blight may occur in potato if there is high relative humidity, as per the advisory.Kalpa received 12 cm of snow, Hansa 8 cm, Gondla 6 cm, Keylong 5 cm and Manali and Kothi 2 cm. Bhuntar was wettest with 26 mm rain, followed by Dalhousie 20 mm, Jarri 19.5 mm, Jogindernagar 16.5 mm, Palampur 15 mm, Baijnath 14.5 mm, Mandi and Chamba 14 mm, Dharamsala and Kangra 12 mm, Sundernagar 11 mm and Shimla 10 mm. The maximum temperatures were 5-6°C below normal during the last 24 hours and Keylong and Kalpa reeled under biting cold wave conditions with maximum day temperature at minus 1.5°C and 2.9°C.The minimum temperatures stayed close to normal. Keylong was coldest at night with minimum temperature at minus 5.8°C.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/cold-wave-sweeps-state-after-snowfall-in-kufri-narkanda-358277
05-01-2022||Pratibha Chauhan||Himachal Pradesh township plan scrapped, government to sell plots, flats||Tribune News ServiceShimla, January 4With the National Green Tribunal (NGT) restricting construction in the Greater Shimla Planning Area, the HP Urban Development Authority (HIMUDA) has decided to abandon the modern township project at Jathiadevi, near Jubbarhatti airport, 18 km from here, and instead carve out plots and construct flats.The state government had signed an MoU with Singapore on February 27, 2017, for constructing the township. The project never took off as the NGT restricted construction to two and a half floors, which made the project economically unviable. “Since the Singapore government backed out of the project after the NGT imposed the restrictions, the HIMUDA has decided to sell plots and construct flats at the site,” said RK Pruthi, Chief Executive Officer, HIMUDA.The memorandum of understanding was scrapped in August 2019. “The possibility of people evincing a keen interest in buying flats and plots is high as the site is close to the capital city,” he said.According to Pruthi, despite the Covid pandemic, there was a good response to similar schemes in areas bordering Punjab and Haryana, although projects in the interior parts of the state had got a lukewarm response. The government, meanwhile, is yet to take a call on the issue of providing relief to over 25,000 owners of buildings raised in violation of norms.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/himachal-pradesh-township-plan-scrapped-government-to-sell-plots-flats-358192
