06-01-2022||---||Himachal Pradesh Beopar Mandal assails market fee on 128 more items||Ravinder SoodPalampur, January 5The Himachal Pradesh Beopar Mandal today assailed the state government for its recent notification for adding 128 new additional consumer items to the existing list of 132 items for paying market committee fee. Beopar Mandal said it was an anti-trader step and it the notification issued should be immediately withdraw.Sumesh Sharma, president of the mandal, said that the traders who were paying market fee on 132 items would now pay the same on 259 consumer items, including raw material and finished consumable items, which would ultimately lead to price rise and corruption, apart from harassment to the trading community.He said there was already slump in the market and traders who have borne the brunt of the pandemic were also experiencing a drastic fall in their annual turnover due to the rising trend of online shopping, trade fairs and opening of shopping malls across the state but now they shall face the heat of the revised market committee fee structure.He said the government had sought objections on the revised market fee items listed from Beopar Mandal but the traders associations of the state had rejected the notification of the government and sought its immediate revocation in the larger interest of consumers and traders.Sharma said at present the traders were paying one to five per cent market fee on the Agriculture Produce Marketing Committee Board (APMCB) barriers in the state. He alleged that the state government has illegally declared the whole state as a market yard and the APMCB has opened its barriers on the inter-state borders in the state which have virtually become “dens of corruption”. He said the Beopar Mandal would also study the legal options to challenge this notification in the court of law.Will lead to price rise, corruptionThe traders who were paying market fee on 132 items would now pay it on 259 consumer items, including raw material and finished consumable items, which would ultimately lead to price rise and corruption, apart from harassment to the trading community, said Sumesh Sharma, president of Beopar Mandal||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/himachal-pradesh-beopar-mandal-assails-mkt-fee-on-128-more-items-358659
06-01-2022||Though smoking at public places is strictly prohibited||Tourists smoke at The Ridge in Shimla||Reckless driversWhile heading towards Kufri and Narkanda, tourists do not adhere to speed limits. With frost on the road at some stretches, speeding vehicles become a major threat for people. Many drivers apply brakes suddenly, and their vehicles go out of control. Tourists should be told about the do’s and don’ts before they take the wheel in the hills.— Yatin, ShimlaIs a civic issue bothering you? Are you agitated over the lack of concern? Is there something heartening that you feel needs to be highlighted? Or a picture which in your opinion ought to be seen by many, and not just you?The Tribune invites its readers to have their say. Email at: hpreadersfeedback@tribunemail.com||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/smoking-at-public-places-358658
06-01-2022||The NSUI submitted a memorandum to the HPU Examination Controller on Wednesday to apprise him of the problems of the students. The NSUI state vice-president alleged that the HPU administration was collecting money from common students by inviting applications with a fee ranging from Rs 1||Reduce application fee: NSUI||Language teachers seek TGT tagThe Himachal State Sanskrit Teachers Council met Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur and Education Minster Govind Thakur in connection with their demands for the grant of TGT designation to Shastri and language teachers. The delegation, comprising around 50 persons, was led by council’s state president Manoj Shail.Teachers for revised pay scalesThe All University Teachers Association on Wednesday welcomed the decision of the government to release the pay scales recommended by the Seventh Pay Commission. They urged the goverment to also give the revised pay scales to the university teachers, as per the recommendations of the UGC. “The UGC scales have been implemented in most states and the government should take immediate decision,” said association executive member Kulbhushan Chandel and member secretary Dr Joginder Saklani.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/reduce-application-fee-nsui-358657
06-01-2022||Mandi||House gutted in Mandi||A wooden house was badly damaged in a fire incident at Jhidi panchayat in Mandi district last night.The seven-room house made of forest wood was soon reduced to ashes and nothing could be saved. It is suspected that owner Lokesh Kumar was sleeping in the house at the time of the incident.—TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/house-gutted-in-mandi-358655
06-01-2022||Solan||7-day quarantine in Sirmaur for foreign returnees||The district administration of Sirmaur has directed all foreign returnees to undergo seven-day home isolation even if they have tested negative for Covid at the airport.Deputy Commissioner, Sirmaur, RK Gautam said said, “Foreign returnees, who have tested negative for Covid after their arrival at the airport, will be tested again upon their arrival in the district. Even if they test Covid negative in the district, they will have to undergo seven-day home isolation. Another test will be conducted after seven days”.Gautam said, “Foreign returnees, who have not been tested at the airport, will have to undergo the test upon arrival in the district. They will also have to undergo seven-day home isolation even if they test negative and a re-test will be done after seven days”.—TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/7-day-quarantine-in-sirmaur-for-foreign-returnees-358654
06-01-2022||Shimla||HMOA: Restore non-practising allowance in Himachal||The HMOA said today that the state government had hurt its interest by reducing the NPA from 25 per cent to 20 per cent. “The government had assured us that the NPA would not be reduced, but still it reduced the allowance by five per cent,” said HMOA secretary Dr Pushpender Verma.He accused the government of following Punjab selectively and said that it did not follow the neighbouring state in fixing the basic pay plus NPA limit. “Punjab has the basic pay plus NPA limit fixed at Rs 237,600 but Himachal has fixed it at Rs 218,000. This is clearly a case of double standards,” Dr Verma added. The HMOA considered the scrapping of the 4-9-14 time scale promotions for doctors as a setback. “For years there is no promotion for doctors. The provision of the 4-9-14 time scale was a big consolation in that respect,” he said. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/hmoa-restore-non-practising-allowance-358652
06-01-2022||Bhanu P Lohumi||Courses in defence, retail, logistics okayed by Himachal Pradesh Private Educational Institutions Regulatory Commission||Tribune News ServiceShimla, January 5The Himachal Pradesh Private Educational Institutions Regulatory Commission (HPPERC) has approved innovative new era courses in defence, retail, logistics, life science, media, gaming and travel for private universities in the state.The new approved courses include MA and M.Sc in defence and strategic studies, M. Tech defence technology, MBA tech (5 years), MBA pharma (5 years), B Tech in defence technology, cloud computing, cyber security, tunneling, environmental sustainability and innovation, post-graduate diploma in animation gaming and VFX, post graduate diploma in design thinking, cloud computing and Fintech.A new certificate course in geriatric care assistant would be introduced by the Eternal University for girl students who would be required to undergo practical training at senior care homes or old age homes. Linguistic courses in Chinese, French, German and other foreign languages were also approved.With an aim to reduce skill gap and restrict migration of Himachali students to other states, approval has been given to 13 new courses with intake of 400-500 students keeping in mind the futuristic jobs and employment avenues, said Chairman, HPPERC Maj Gen Atul Kaushik (Retd).Mountaineering and adventure tourism have been linked with BBA to help students get employment and create self-employment avenues for themselves. Conditional approval has been given to Sri Sai University provided they sign a memorandum of understanding (MoU) with the defence forces for mountaineering and skiing, he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/courses-in-defence-retail-logistics-okayed-by-himachal-pradesh-private-educational-institutions-regulatory-commission-358650
06-01-2022||Shimla||SAIL to supply steel to HPSIDC||Himachal Pradesh State Industrial Development Corporation Ltd (HPSIDC) today signed an MoU with Steel Authority of India Ltd (SAIL) for the supply of steel requirements.The MoU was signed in the presence of Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur, who also launched the UNNATI portal and mobile app of the HPSIDC. Thakur also launched the website of the HPSIDC, which will ensure timely project updates to the people at all levels, besides helping in avoiding missing deadlines and keeping workflows tools in one place.The CM was also presented a cheque for Rs 1.54 crore as dividend by the HPSIDC to the government by Industries Minister Bikram Singh and Managing Director HPSIDC Rakesh Prajapati.They also presented a cheque for Rs 51 lakh towards the Chief Minister Relief Fund. —TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/sail-to-supply-steel-to-hpsidc-358648
06-01-2022||Shimla||Rajkot man arrested for not paying dues of apple traders||The Shimla police have arrested Imran Bhai Solanki, a resident of Rajkot, from his native place in a case related to non-payment of dues to apple traders of the state.Solanki had to pay Rs 35 lakh to OXD Traders India Pvt. Ltd. for the supply of 2,724 apple cartons. He had also to pay three more trading firms, namely Shri Krishna Fruit Agency, Karol Agro Traders and Krishna Trading Company between Rs 1.7 lakh and Rs 4.4 lakh.—TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/rajkot-man-arrested-for-not-paying-dues-of-apple-traders-358647
06-01-2022||Shimla||374 new Covid cases, one death in Himachal Pradesh||As many as 374 Covid cases were reported in the state today, taking the tally to 229,787. Besides, one person died of the virus in Una. The highest 136 cases were recorded in Kangra. —TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/374-new-covid-cases-one-death-in-himachal-pradesh-358646
06-01-2022||Shimla||Night curfew imposed, 50% cap on gatherings in Himachal||In view of sudden spike in Covid cases, the Cabinet today decided to impose night curfew from 10 pm to 5 am and restrictions and put a 50 per cent cap on attendance at all social, religious, political, cultural, sports, academic and entertainment gathering being held indoors or outdoors.Besides, the Cabinet decided to allow only 50 per cent gathering in indoor functions to be held in marriage palaces, banquet halls or any other outdoor venue.As per the order issued by the Disaster Management Cell of the Revenue Department, the “no mask-no service” policy shall remain operational in the state while those without masks would be fined. It has also been decided to keep all indoor sports complexes, cinema halls, multiplexes, stadia, swimming pools, gyms and langars at all religious shrines closed till further orders. —TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/night-curfew-imposed-50-cap-on-gatherings-in-himachal-358645
06-01-2022||---||Pleas ignored, Nurpur villagers themselves start building road||Rajiv MahajanNurpur, January 5After elected representatives and departmental authorities failed to construct a road despite repeated requests, residents of Bhalkhor of ward number six of the Baranda gram panchayat in Nurpur block have taken the matter in their hands and started construction of a 300-m village road stretch from Bhalkhor to Nagni on their own.The residents alleged that the village had been a victim of political neglect for many years. They said they faced tough time during the rainy season when the village path got inundated in the absence of a drainage system. They said it was especially a nightmare for children who had to go to the Government Primary School in the village.Pooja Devi, a ward member of Bhalkhor, said villagers had approached the local MLA several times but to no avail. She said local social workers Narinder Sharma, Manoj, Bihari Lal and Rajat Sharma had taken the initiative and motivated other residents to build a cemented approach road on their own. “They collected funds from locals and started work on the road for which Rs 5 lakh were likely be spent,” she said.Narinder Sharma, who had originally taken up the initiative, alleged that a delegation of villagers had approached political leaders of the area but only assurances were given to them which were never fulfilled. Finally, he decided to build the road with the the help of local residents who extended their wholehearted support in the mission, he said.The villagers have started the construction of a retaining wall along the path. They have planned to build a cemented stretch, besides a proper drainage system to avoid water stagnation on it.Funds collected from localsVillagers approached the local MLA several times but to no avail. Local social workers took an initiative and motivated other residents to build a cemented approach road on their own. They collected funds from locals and started work on the road for which Rs5 lakh is likely to be spent. — Pooja Devi, resident, Bhalkhor||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/pleas-ignored-nurpur-villagers-themselves-start-building-road-358643
06-01-2022||---||1,782 water carriers to be regularised in Himachal||Shimla, January 5The government today gave its nod to regularise the services of 1,782 part-time water carriers in the Education Department, who have completed 11 years of service on September 30, 2021.The decision was taken by the Cabinet, chaired by Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur, here. The Cabinet also decided to fill 129 posts of junior office assistant (IT) in the Forest Department on contract basis.The Cabinet gave its approval to signing of an MoU between the state government and the Government of Haryana for construction of Adi Badri Dam on the Som and its link with the Saraswati river.It gave consent to the upgrade, operation and management of the Culture Centre of Tourism Development at Baragran in Manali to Maya Digital Media Pvt Ltd Mumbai-Deepa Roshan Lal Sahi (Consortium). This newly created facility will add leisure tourism to the itinerary and emerge as an arts and crafts hub for artisans.The Cabinet gave its approval to convert Himachal Pradesh Road and other Infrastructure Development Corporation into a public limited company. This has been done to transform the transport sector for the development of safe, resilient and high-standard transport infrastructure.It also decided to include gram panchayats of Murag, Sharan and Kanda-Bagsiad of Gohar Development Block into Seraj in Mandi district. The Cabinet decided to create the Dhuan Devin Patwar Circle in Mandi Sadar tehsil by carving it out from the existing Pandoh, Majhwar and Nela Patwar Circles in Mandi district.It also decided to upgrade Community Health Centre, Mandap, in Mandi district to 50-bed civil hospital. It was also decided to fill seven posts of Assistant Professor in the IGMC, Shimla, and Atal Institute of Medical Super Speciality, Chamiyana, through direct recruitment.Other decisions||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/1-782-water-carriers-to-be-regularised-358641
06-01-2022||Our Correspondent||Himachal Transport Minister lays 'naka' near Dehara Gopipur, fines pvt luxury buses plying illegally||Palampur, January 5Himachal Transport Minister Bikram Singh Thakur laid a midnight naka near Dehara Gopipur to inspect the luxury Volvo buses plying illegally on the Baijnath- Delhi and Dharamsala-Delhi route as contract carriage. These buses were also picking passengers from different stations like stage carriage buses. The minister along with the team of officials personally inspected bus permits and other documents of luxury buses.The minister had received a number of complaints that the operators of private buses were evading taxes and causing a loss of crores of rupees to the state exchequer. Based on the information, the minister inspected these buses and imposed heavy fines on one dozen buses which were not carrying required documents and evading tax. These were found involved in other violations. Besides, he debarred four basses for plying in Himachal Pradesh.Talking to mediapersons, the minister said the bus operators were picking passengers randomly midway on the route, ignoring the rules. In fact, these buses have the permit of contract carriage. As per rules these buses have to pick up passengers from one station to another and cannot pick up passengers en route.“These luxury buses are operating on a daily basis like stage carriage buses being run by the HRTC picking up passengers from stations like Baijnath, Paprola, Palampur, Kangra, Una, Dehara Gopipur, etc. While the stage carriage buses are liable to pay the state road tax (SRTC) that is charged from passengers per ticket, the contract carriage buses do not pay the state road tax. They pay tax per day basis only when they operate. That tax is much less than the stage carriage permit buses. These buses are operating blatantly picking up passengers on a daily basis”, the minister added.Evading taxesThe minister had received a number of complaints that the operators of private buses were evading taxes and causing a loss of crores of rupees to the state exchequer. The minister inspected these buses and imposed heavy fines on one dozen buses which were not carrying required documents and evading tax.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/himachal-transport-minister-lays-naka-fines-pvt-luxury-buses-plying-illegally-358639
06-01-2022||Shimla||Himachal CM flays PM Modi's security breach||Condemning the breach in PM security, Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur today said that Narendra Modi was not BJP’s Prime Minister but of the nation. “What happened in Punjab today is not just condemnable but very shameful. It shows that the law and order situation in Punjab is very serious,” said Thakur. He urged the Union Home Minister to take the sternest action after a detailed inquiry. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/himachal-cm-flays-pms-security-breach-358636
06-01-2022||Dalhousie||Heavy snow in Pangi, Bharmour, Lakkarmandi ranges of Dalhousie||High hills of Bharmour and Pangi and the Lakkarmandi ranges of Dalhousie have been experiencing heavy snow since last night, disrupting the movement of people in the interior villages.The local link roads in the mountainous terrains had been blocked and slippery, posing risk for commuters. Electricity supply had also been hit in the upper ranges.Meanwhile, Deputy Speaker Hans Raj today took stock of the electrical arrangements during snowfall in Bairagarh, Satyas and Bounderi in the upper areas of Churah. He told the HPSEBL Executive Engineer to restore electricity to the areas where the power system had been disrupted due to snowfall.Executive Engineer Pawan Kumar Sharma, who also accompanied the Deputy Speaker during his visit to the remote areas, said additional teams had been formed and as soon as the snowfall stopped, power supply would be restored. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/heavy-snow-in-pangi-bharmour-358633
06-01-2022||---||Braving chill, health workers vaccinate Lahaul students||Tribune News ServiceMandi, January 5Health workers today braved cold weather conditions in Lahaul and Spiti to vaccinate the children in the 15-18 age group.A team of health workers comprising Dr Nancy of Primary Health Centre, Tholang, senior health worker Virender Singh, data entry operators of the Regional Hospital, Keylong, Punam and Geeta Devi and driver Pritam Yamba ventured to Lote and Malang schools in snowy weather from Keylong to vaccinate students.As many as 20 students were vaccinated in both schools.According to district health authorities, there are 1,385 children in the district. Of these, 823 are school going. So far, 571 have been vaccinated in the district.Deputy Commissioner Lahaul and Spiti Neeraj Kumar appreciated the efforts of health workers for doing a tough job. Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur had launched the Covid vaccination campaign from Mandi on January 3 for 15-18 age group.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/braving-chill-health-workers-vaccinate-lahaul-students-358631
06-01-2022||---||Manali Winter Carnival a big draw amid snow||Abhinav VashishtKULLU, JANUARY 5The cultural extravaganza continued to be a big draw at Manu Rangshala during the fourth day of the Winter Carnival at Manali today.The audience remained glued to their seats in the chilling temperatures as the town experienced snowfall almost throughout the day. Performance by artistes participating from different parts of the state and the country in various competitions enthralled the spectators.A fashion show in traditional dresses by women remained a centre of attraction among the locals and tourists alike. The folk dance performance by the Perfect Dance Group, Jammu, presented a glimpse of its culture. Classical dance presentations by various artistes were lauded by viewers. Dance presentations on new and old film songs by artistes from Jammu, Karnataka, Mohali and from within the state amused the onlookers. The participants of a talent show left the audience spellbound by their performances. The participants of ‘Voice of the Carnival’ was also entertaining.The first round of the Winter Queen beauty pageant was held during the third cultural evening yesterday. The 25 participating beauties mesmerised the audience by their catwalk on the ramp.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/winter-carnival-a-big-draw-amid-snow-358629
06-01-2022||Dipender Manta||Water freezes in Lahaul valley||Tribune News ServiceMandi, January 5Water supply in the Lahaul valley is disrupted for the past two days due to freezing temperatures in Lahaul and Spiti district. The temperatures have plummeted drastically as it has been snowing heavily in the region since Tuesday. According to residents of Lahaul, water has freezed in supply lines. As a result, they are facing difficulties in getting potable water.Also read: Braving chill, health workers vaccinate Lahaul studentsMohan Lal Relingpa, a resident of Lahaul, said, “The people of the valley are facing difficulties in getting piped water supply in their houses due to sub-zero temperatures. People are fetching water from sources situated away their houses for use in kitchens and are melting snow for water for other domestic needs”.After a fresh spell of snowfall since Tuesday, power supply in the Lahaul valley has been erratic. The power supply was restored to the Spiti valley today. However, the valley still remained cut off from road connectivity via the Kinnaur side for the second consecutive day due to heavy snowfall. The Lahaul valley is also cut off from road connectivity due to heavy snowfall near the Atal Tunnel and in its nearby places”.In Kullu district, residents of Ani and Nirmand blocks are cut off from the district headquarters due to the closure of the Jalori Pass on the Aut-Luhri highway since yesterday. The district administration of Kullu has restricted the movement of tourists towards the Jalori Pass from the Banjar side and towards the Atal Tunnel beyond the Solang valley.Meanwhile, 16 roads in Kullu district were blocked due to snowfall while four power transformers were damaged. In Mandi district, the famous tourist places of Prashar Lake, Shikari Devi and Kamrunag received heavy snowfall for the second consecutive day today, while the lower region of Mandi and Kullu districts received incessant rainfall throughout the day.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/water-freezes-in-lahaul-valley-358628
06-01-2022||---||Snowfall in Kufri, Narkanda, 10 tourists rescued||Shimla, January 5As many as 248 roads, including 137 in Lahaul and Spiti, 51 in Kinnaur, 28 in Mandi, 16 in Kullu and 10 in Shimla district, are closed for vehicular traffic following moderate to heavy snowfall at higher hills, tribal areas and several tourist spots.Also read: Water freezes in Lahaul valleyHeavy snow in Pangi, Bharmour, Lakkarmandi ranges of DalhousieManali Winter Carnival a big draw amid snowThe National Highway 5 is blocked near Narkanda and Kufri due to slippery conditions following snow. The traffic has been diverted through Basantpur and the Bhakhalti-Mashobra route. The Theog-Chopal Road is also blocked near Khidki due to bad weather.Deputy Commissioner, Shimla, Aditya Negi said the Shimla–Rohru road which was blocked near Kharapathar has been opened. He has advised commuters to be cautious while driving in evening hours and avoid travelling at night.The Shimla police today rescued 10 tourists stranded due to snowfall in Khirki in Chopal subdivision of Shimla district. As per the MeT office another intense western disturbance is likely to affect Northwest India from the night of January 6 and heavy snowfall is expected in the districts of Chamba, Kangra, Kullu, Lahaul and Spiti and Kinnaur on January 8.Koksar received 33 cm of snow followed by Kalpa 27 cm, Kothi 20 cm, Khadrala 17 cm, Hansa 12 cm, Gondla 10 cm, Keylong, Pooh and Moorang 8 cm each and Manali 6 cm. Narkanda and Kufri also received mild snow followed by intermittent rain.Moderate rain lashed the region. Dalhousie was the wettest with 67 mm of rain followed by Manali 54 mm, Bhuntar 48 mm, Palampur 45 mm, Dharamsala 40 mm, Jogindarnagar 39 mm, Seobagh 30 mm, Chamba 29 mm, Saloni 23 mm and Wangto 22 mm. Shimla received intermittent rain. There was no appreciable change in the minimum temperatures and Keylong was the coldest in the day recording a low of minus 3.1 degree C.Palampur hills turn whitePalampur: Upper reaches of Dhauladhars and Chhota and Bara Bhangal areas of the Palampur region experienced heavy snowfall in the past 24 hours, while lower areas were lashed by heavy rain. The region is in the grip of a severe cold wave. Chhota Bhangal and Bara Bhangal have been cut off from the rest of the state following heavy snowfall at the Thamsar Pass. Reports reaching here said 12 inches of snow was recorded at Billing while seven inches of snow was recorded at Kothi Kohar in Chhota Bhangal. Normal life was affected. Power supply and transport services were also hit. Many parts of Palampur, Baijnath, Jaisinghpur and adjoining areas remained without power for hours following a snag in transmission lines. Vehicular traffic to Chhota Bhangal and Billing came to a standstill following heavy snowfall. Meanwhile, hundreds of light and heavy vehicles are reported to be stranded at Multhan, Kothi Kohar, Luhardi, Billing and Barot. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/snowfall-in-kufri-narkanda-10-tourists-rescued-358626
06-01-2022||---||Fake degrees: Solan varsity chairman's kin declared POs||Ambika SharmaTribune News ServiceSolan, January 5A court here today declared as proclaimed offenders the wife and daughter of Solan’s Manav Bharti University chairman and trustee Rajkumar Rana, the main accused in a fake degree scam. The orders were pronounced on a petition filed by the Himachal police CID’s special investigation team (SIT) probing the scam, said Inspector General Atul Fulzale.The SIT had issued two non-bailable warrants, which remained unserved as Rana’s wife Ashoni Kanwar and daughter Aaina Rana were unavailable at their residential addresses. Both were booked in March 2020.Notices directing them to present themselves for the probe were affixed at four addresses, including their residence at Madhav University on Abu Road in Rajasthan and their houses in Karnal and Una district.Ashoni, who hails from Una, allegedly obtained fake degrees from her own university and on its basis was shown as a faculty member and drew a handsome salary. They were university trustees and allegedly purchased properties by siphoning off money from the institute’s accounts. According to their passport details, both are reportedly in Australia. The Inspector General said efforts were afoot to issue a red-corner notice against the duo. The process is also learnt to be underway to seek extradition of theirs as well as son of Rana from Australia.Hiding in Australia?||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/fake-degrees-solan-varsity-chairmans-kin-declared-pos-358559
06-01-2022||---||Himachal Government imposes night curfew amid Covid surge||Shimla, January 5In view of sudden spike in Covid cases, the Himachal Pradesh Government on Wednesday imposed night curfew in the state. It also put restrictions on number of people attending gatherings, both indoors and outdoors.The decision to impose night curfew from 10 pm to 5 am was taken by the Cabinet at its meeting chaired by Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur here today. Besides the night curfew, the Cabinet also decided to restrict attendance at public gatherings at 50 per cent, be it indoors or outdoors.Thrust will be on enhancing testing and ramping up arrangements for treatment of Covid patients at various government hospitals.The number of daily cases in Himachal almost doubled to 260 yesterday, indicating a surge in positive cases.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/himachal-government-imposes-night-curfew-amid-covid-surge-358434
06-01-2022||Solan||Fake degree scam: Solan court declares wife, daughter of Manav Bharti University chairman proclaimed offenders||A court in Solan declared two family members of the chairman of a private university proclaimed offenders on Wednesday as investigators try to get their hands on the people behind a multi-crore scam involving fake degrees.The wife and daughter of Manav Bharati University chairman Rajkumar Rana were booked in the case in March 2020. A Special Investigation Team from the state’s Crime Investigation Department that was probing the case made an application to have them declared proclaimed offenders on Tuesday, officials said.The SIT had issued two non-bailable warrants in the case for Rana’s wife Ashoni Kanwar and daughter Aaina Rana after investigators couldn’t find them at their residential addresses. Investigators said that two did not respond to summons that were given to them at their known addresses---their residences, Madhav University at Abu Road in Rajasthan as well as their known houses in Karnal and Una.Investigators claim  Ashoni Kanwar secured a fake degree from the university and used that to get a job as a faculty member there. Both Kanwar and Aaina Rana are trustees at the university and have been accused of having bought properties by misappropriating money from the university.The duo is reportedly in Australia.Inspector General of Police CID Atul Fulzale said his department was working with Interpol to help issue a red notice against the two.Allegations that the university sold their degree for a considerable sum since 2009 first surfaced in 2020, raising questions about how they were able to evade the state’s regulatory system. Reports surfaced that the University Grants Commission had even flagged the impropriety but it remained unaddressed.The university was accused of having charged between Rs 1 and Rs 3 lakh through agents for their degrees. Investigators claim that the university may have sold 55,000 such degrees.Investigators have been trying to have Ashoni Kanwar, Aaina Rana, and Rajkumar Rana’s son extradited from Australia since January last year.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/fake-degree-scam-solan-court-declares-wife-daughter-of-manav-bharti-university-chairman-absconders-358421
