07-01-2022||Shimla||Highest single-day spike of 574 Covid cases in HP; NIT-Hamirpur declared 'mini containment zone'||Himachal Pradesh on Friday recorded 574 fresh COVID-19 cases, the biggest single-day jump in several months, taking the infection tally to 2,30,859, a health official said.Meanwhile, 59 more students of the National Institute of Technology (NIT) in Hamirpur tested positive for the infection, forcing the authorities to declare it a “mini containment zone”, a district official said.The highest 144 fresh cases were found in Kangra followed by 85 in Hamirpur, 80 in Shimla, 79 in Solan, 49 in Sirmaur, 35 in Mandi, 34 in Kullu, 32 in Una, 20 in Bilaspur, nine in Kinnaur and seven in Chamba, the state health official said.Besides, a 37-year-old man in Mandi succumbed to the virus on Friday, pushing the death toll to 3,864.The number of active COVID-19 cases in the state climbed to 2,153 from 1,655 on Thursday, the official said.Seventy-three more patients recovered from the viral disease. With this, the total number of recoveries in Himachal Pradesh stands at 2,24,811, he said.A total of 140 NIT Hamirpur students have been found infected with the novel coronavirus infection in the last three days.Besides, 24 other people also tested positive in Hamirpur district on Friday, the official said.This has raised the number of active cases to 233 in the district. All of them have been quarantined at their places.The official said 726 samples were tested on Friday and the results of 85 of them came out positive.The number of total confirmed cases in the district has risen to 18,318 as against 17,776 recoveries, he added.In his order on Friday, the Hamirpur sub divisional magistrate stated that strict measures are required to prevent the spread of the virus, which if not taken immediately, may cause further hazards.“Therefore, in compliance to the office order issued by the district magistrate, Hamirpur, the sub divisional magistrate, Hamirpur, in exercise of the power vested in him under Section 144 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, has ordered complete sealing of the area,” the order read.Under no circumstances will any person or vehicle, except officers/officials’ vehicles on government duty, shall be allowed, the order specified.Further, essential commodities such as like milk, groceries, vegetables, pharmaceutical products and gas supply shall be allowed with prior permission, the SDM’s order stated.“No person shall leave their homes or move on foot or by vehicles or travel or roam around or stand on any road or public places in the above referred notified area of the respective gram panchayat ward till further orders,” it said. — PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/covid-surge-national-institute-of-technology-hamirpur-declared-mini-containment-zone-359118
07-01-2022||Besides the frequent traffic jams||SDA complex a dumping ground||— Mohinder, KasumptiRemove debris, Make IGMC road functionalA landslide near the IGMC has blocked the road to Covid testing centres and other facilities, causing problems for the patients. Even the suspected patients, who would otherwise take the blocked road, have to take the other way where they come in contact with many patients and attendants. The authorities should get the road functional as soon as possible. — Chetan, ShimlaIs a civic issue bothering you? Are you agitated over the lack of concern? Is there something heartening that you feel needs to be highlighted? Or a picture which in your opinion ought to be seen by many, and not just you?The Tribune invites its readers to have their say. Email at: hpreadersfeedback@tribunemail.com||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/sda-complex-a-dumping-ground-358977
07-01-2022||HP State ITI Principals’ Association has expressed dismay over the notification of the new Pay Commission. According to association general secretary Abhinandan Kalia||ITI principals flay pay panel notification||CM gives smart phones to pupilsChief Minister Jai Ram Thakur on Thursday handed over smart phones to students of various schools for online education. The phones were donated by the Art of Living Foundation and International Association of Human Values. Thakur said the state government had also launched several online teaching programmes, such as Har Ghar Pathshala, Digital Sathi Programme etc to ensure that studies do not get affected due to the lockdown.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/iti-principals-flay-pay-panel-notification-358975
07-01-2022||Shimla||Bahra varsity, charitable society sign MoU||A Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) has been signed between Bahra University, Waknaghat, and Pratibha Spandan Charitable Society, Shimla, for undertaking joint academic, cultural and social activities. The pact was signed in the presence of Vice-Chancellor BS Nagendra Parashar, Dean Research Prof Manish Sharma, Dean Academics Prof Shripad Markande, and Anil Kumar from Bahra University and Dr Mritunjay Sharma, president, and Virender Kaushal, general secretary, Pratibha Spandan Charitable Society. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/bahra-varsity-charitable-society-sign-mou-358973
07-01-2022||Mandi||HPU women's team wins kabbadi tournament||The team of Himachal Pradesh University (HPU), Shimla, won the North Zone Inter University Women Kabaddi Championship at Government Vallabh College here today by defeating the Kurukshetra University team by three points in a thrilling final match.Education Minister Govind Singh Thakur, who was the chief guest of the event, gave away awards to the winning team players. Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur had inaugurated the four-day tournament on January 3.Media Coordinator of the event Prof Chaman Lal said, “The four-day tournament concluded with enthusiasm. The HPU team win the kabbadi trophy while the Kurukshetra University team was runner-up. The team of the MDU, Rohtak, was the first runner-up while the team of GNDU, Amritsar, was the second runner-up”. About 20 international women players also participated in the competition. “The winning team will get an opportunity to play in the Khelo India,” he said. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/hpu-womens-team-wins-kabbadi-tournament-358969
07-01-2022||Solan||Patwari held for taking bribe||A patwari posted in the Dhaulan Kuan area of Paonta Sahib tehsil in Sirmaur district was caught red-handed today while accepting Rs 2,000 as bribe from a local resident for some revenue work.The official was dilly-dallying to do the work and then asked for bribe. The resident, however, lodged a complaint with the State Vigilance Bureau.Rameshwar Thakur, IG, State Anti-Corruption and Vigilance Bureau, said that patwari Bharat Singh, posted at Dhaulan Kuan, was arrested while accepting an illegal gratification of Rs 2,000. A case had been registered against him.A team led by Vigilance bureau inspector Mamta Raguvanshi laid a trap and arrested the patwari. The assets of the official would also be probed. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/patwari-held-for-taking-bribe-358967
07-01-2022||---||Rs5,784 cr plan to revamp power sector in Himachal||Shimla, January 6The government has approved the action plan and DPR of the Revamped Distribution Sector Scheme (RDSS) for Rs 5,784 crore. The scheme comprises a total outlay of Rs 2,224 crore towards the replacement of existing feeders, distribution transformers and consumer meters with smart meters.Besides, Rs 3,559 crore will be directed towards strengthening, renovation and augmentation of existing distribution infrastructure in the entire state.“HP State Electricity Board Limited (HPSEBL) will get a grant of Rs 3,600 crore from this scheme. This scheme will be implemented by 2025-26,” said a spokesperson of the HPSEBL.Under this scheme, about 28 lakh meters will be replaced with smart meters. Further, for strengthening distribution infrastructure, there is a provision of 5,653 kms of HT line, 4,483 km of LT lines, 6,369 distribution transformers (DTs), 6,905 km reconductoring and augmentation of LT Lines, augmentation of 5,373 DTs and 704 kms conversion of bare conductors into cable, etc.The present annual technical and commercial (AT&C) losses of the HPSEBL have been reduced below 10 per cent and ACS-ARR gap to zero by FY 25. “The implementation of this scheme will enable HPSEBL to reduce losses to make it financially sustainable and operationally efficient. The consumers will also get 24x7 uninterrupted, affordable and quality power supply,” the spokesperson said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/5-784-cr-plan-to-revamp-power-sector-in-himachal-358964
07-01-2022||---||CSIR to empower Lahaul farmers||Mandi, January 6To strengthen the agriculture sector in Lahaul-Spiti, DC Neeraj Kumar signed an MoU with Director of the CSIR-IHBT, Palampur, Dr Sanjay Kumar today. The MoU will increase the production to enhance the economy of farmers in the district.Dr Sanjay Kumar said, “Under the MoU, the action plan for food processing, branding and marketing of agricultural products will also be involved. Apart from this, the focus will also be on soil, water conservation and waste management,” he said.“Awareness and information about processing will also be shared with farmers. They will be equipped with the latest technology related to cash crops other than floriculture,” he added.Neeraj Kumar said, “The livelihood of the people of Lahaul-Spiti is based on agriculture. There are some distinct challenges in this area. These are limited diversification of high-yielding varieties, lack of storage capacity, limited industrial reach, value addition and branding of products, etc.”“The MoU has been signed with the CSIR-IHBT, Palampur, to open new doors of economic and social prosperity in the geographically largest district of HP,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/csir-to-empower-lahaul-farmers-358962
07-01-2022||Vijay Arora||AG : Himachal to amend policy to appoint multi-task workers||Shimla, January 6The state is considering to amend the policy for appointment as part-time multi-task workers, specifically on the compassionate grounds.This was stated by the Advocate General before the High Court during the course of hearing on a petition challenging the clause 18 of the Part Time Multi Task Worker Policy.Under the policy, the government will have the power to appoint any candidate as worker on the compassionate grounds without following the selection process if he is a BPL candidate or has a low income certificate issued by the Naib Tehsildar, Tehsildar, SDO or Executive Magistrate of the area.The Advocate General further informed the court that from today, appointments for the time being will not be made under the clause. He stated before the court that the state would enhance the weightage to be given to widows, needy persons, women deserted by their husbands and persons with benchmarks disabilities also orphans.After hearing the matter, the court observed, “In view of the statement made by the Advocate General, no interim order needs to be passed.”It was alleged in the petition that the Education Department was in the process of appointing persons under Clause 18 of the scheme, which is arbitrary, unconstitutional and against the right to employment.It was further contended by the petitioner that more than 5,000 persons were to be appointed in various schools as multi-task workers and as per the knowledge of the petitioner, more than 2,000 persons would be appointed under Clause18.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/ag-himachal-to-amend-policy-to-appoint-multi-task-workers-358957
07-01-2022||---||Now, e-file cases in Himachal Pradesh High Court||Legal CorrespondentShimla, January 6The Himachal Pradesh High Court has started e-filing cases. As per the notification issued in this regard, henceforth the states and the Union Government will only e-file their cases in the High Court and district courts.The notification issued by the Registrar General of the Himachal High Court said, “In exercise of the powers vested under Rule 2 of Electronic Filing (e-filing) in the High Court and Subordinate Courts of Himachal Pradesh Rules 2019, the Chief Justice is pleased to order that henceforth the states and the Union Government should file their cases in the High Court and district courts through e-filing only”. Recently, the Supreme Court E-committee had sent a letter to all high courts, directing them to ensure that the governments submit all petitions and cases only by way of e-filing.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/now-e-file-cases-in-himachal-pradesh-high-court-358956
07-01-2022||Shimla||Himachal CM launches drugs control helpline||Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur today launched a special drug prevention helpline as part of the Mukhya Mantri Sewa Sankalp Helpline 1100 and the official website of the Himachal Pradesh Nasha Nivaran Board to provide necessary guidance and counselling on drug abuse.He said that the helpline would connect drug dependent persons or their parents with the nodal officers of the board and the State Mental Health Authority in Shimla for initial counselling and guidance. If required, the person would be further referred to the nearest hospital, medical college, and the Integrated Rehabilitation and Counselling Centre with facilities of psychiatric treatment.Thakur said that the government was contemplating to bring a state integrated drug prevention policy under which a multi-pronged strategy and an effective action plan would be formulated in a practical manner.—TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/himachal-cm-launches-drugs-control-helpline-358951
07-01-2022||Lalit Mohan||Positivity rate rises to 7.7 pc in Kangra||Tribune News ServiceDharamsala, January 6The positivity rate of coronavirus in Kangra district has risen to 7.7 per cent, which is among the highest in the country. The number of active Covid cases in the district has risen from about 80 to 467 in the past five or six days. What is worrying the health authorities in the district is the reluctance of people to get themselves tested and also isolate themselves.The CMO, Kangra, Dr GD Gupta, says that there has been a sudden spurt in Covid cases in the district. “We are testing about 1,000 to 1,500 samples every day. The fact that every eight out of 100 people being tested are turning out to be Covid positive in the district is a matter of concern,” he adds.However, hospitalisation during the third wave of Covid is very low. There are just 45 Covid patients in hospitals in Kangra district and 39 of them are asymptomatic. The district administration of Kangra has kept ready eight hospitals having 1,500 beds with oxygen facilities.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/positivity-rate-rises-to-7-7-pc-in-kangra-358946
07-01-2022||Subhash Rajta||Covid graph goes up, active cases past 1,600 in Himachal Pradesh||Tribune News ServiceShimla, January 6Political rallies, Christmas and New Year celebrations seem to have triggered the resurgence of Covid-19 in the state. From a low of 344 active cases recorded on December 27, the count has gone up to 1,655 in just 10 days.The Covid graph had been going down consistently in the state until December 27 – the number of active cases had slipped to 344 in the state, the lowest in the past several months. A day later, the Covid graph took an upward turn, with the active cases rising to 370. The sudden upward turn continued over the next few days and the tally on Thursday stood at 1,655 cases.Along with the number of active cases, the positivity rate, too, has been rising fast. On December 27, the positivity rate was less than 0.57 per cent; on January 5, when 358 positive cases were reported, the positivity rate jumped past five per cent. On Thursday, the positivity rate had risen to 6.9 per cent with 481 cases recorded in the day.While just one omicron case has been reported so far in the state, experts feel the latest variant could be the reason for Covid’s resurgence in the state. “If you see the data from across the country, 70 to 80 per cent cases are omicron related. So, yes, there’s a possibility of omicron being behind the latest spike,” said Dr Malay Sarkar, a member of the state Covid clinical committee.“And given that hospitalisation has not increased much despite the spike in cases, the possibility of omicron driving the spurt becomes stronger,” said Dr Sarkar. Omicron may have caused the surgeIf you see the data from across the country, 70 to 80 per cent cases are omicron related. So, yes, there’s a possibility of omicron being behind the latest spike. — Dr Malay Sarkar, member of state covid clinical committee||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/covid-graph-goes-up-active-cases-past-1-600-in-himachal-pradesh-358944
07-01-2022||Shimla||480 new Covid cases reported in Himachal||As many as 480 Covid cases were reported in the state today, taking the tally to 230,285. However, there was no death due to the virus.The highest number of 170 cases was recorded in Kangra, followed by 76 in Solan, 63 in Hamirpur, 46 in Shimla, 35 in Kullu, 28 in Una, 27 in Mandi, 20 each in Una and Bilaspur, 12 in Bilaspur and one in Kinnaur. The number of active cases rose to 1,655.—TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/480-new-covid-cases-reported-in-himachal-358941
07-01-2022||---||CM Jai Ram Thakur rules out curbs on entry of tourists into Himachal||Shimla, January 6Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur today ruled out imposing restrictions on the entry of tourists into Himachal as hoteliers and the state economy are affected badly.“The steep surge in Covid cases clearly indicates that the third wave has hit Himachal and if this trend continues, the government might be forced to impose harsher restrictions,” he said during an informal interaction here. He added within five days, the number of active cases had shot up from 336 to 1,150 today, which is worrisome.Thakur said that the state government would review the situation after four or five days and depending on the transmission chain, a decision would be taken on imposing more restrictions.He, however, insisted that precaution was the best solution to fight Covid. “I feel restricting the entry of tourists is not correct, as the economy takes a severe beating. Rather, we have requested hoteliers to ensure that they as well as tourists adhere to Covid-appropriate behaviour,” he said.He said that the hotel and tourism industry had already taken a severe beating in the past two years and as such restricting the entry of tourist would not be a wise decision. He, however, admitted that if the surge continues, the government would have no option but to impose more restrictions.Thakur said that the Cabinet at its meeting yesterday had imposed night curfew and put a cap of 50 per cent on all social gatherings indoors. Gymnasiums, spas, clubs, pools, and cinema halls had been closed and langar at religious shrines had been banned, he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/cm-jai-ram-thakur-rules-out-curbs-on-entry-of-tourists-into-himachal-358940
07-01-2022||---||Himachal CM Jai Ram Thakur opens six oxygen plants||Tribune News ServiceShimla, January 6Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur today virtually inaugurated six PSA oxygen plants, constructed at Rs 6.60 crore as part of the preparedness for Covid.The plants were inaugurated at Chamba medical college, Civil Hospital, Chowari (Chamba), Deen Dayal Upadhyay Hospital and Kamla Nehru Hospital (both Shimla), Regional Hospital, Rampur, and Civil Hospital, Shimla. Of these six plants, five have been established through the PM CARES Fund and one through corporate social responsibility (CSR).Thakur said it was a matter of satisfaction that the state had 41 PSA oxygen plants, 11,543 D-Type, 3,837 B-Type and 1,400 A-Type oxygen cylinders and more than 5,000 oxygen concentrators with a capacity to produce more than 95 metric tonnes of oxygen. He said at one stage, the state had only two oxygen plants at Shimla and Tanda.He also inaugurated two CT scan machines, one at Nahan medical college in Sirmaur district and another at Chamba medical college, set up at Rs 10 crore. Both these machines are of 128 slices, which will help in microscopic examination of diseases at a faster pace. He also inaugurated an advanced technology digital X-ray machine for Nahan medical college.The Chief Minister also launched three new health programmes under the National Health Mission. Under the Mission Drishti, the eyes of children of Classes VI to XII will be examined and free spectacles be provided.Under the School Health and Wellness Programme under the Ayushman Bharat Scheme, two teachers will be nominated as health and wellness ambassadors from each school and be trained on 11 aspects related to adolescent health. These ambassadors will prepare two students of each class as health and wellness messengers. At present, the programme will be started in 3,017 schools in Mandi, Kangra, Bilaspur, Una, Chamba and Sirmaur and later it will be extended to other districts as well.Besides, the Chief Minister also launched the National Tuberculosis Eradication Programme, aimed at making the state TB-free by 2025. He also launched the booklets regarding the guidelines on the TB Eradication Programme and other publications of the Health Department.Thakur said in the past three days, more than two lakh children in the 15 to 18 age group have been vaccinated and Himachal hoped to become the first to vaccinate all in this age group.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/himachal-cm-jai-ram-thakur-opens-six-oxygen-plants-358939
07-01-2022||Abhinav Vashisht||'Maha nati' wows tourists at Winter Carnival in Manali||KULLU, JANUARY 6Bright sun after a couple of days of inclement weather brightened the festive mood on the concluding day of the five-day long national Winter Carnival at Manali today. The ‘maha nati’ on the Mall road by hundreds of women of Mahila Mandals of the left bank of the Beas attired in local dresses was the centre of attraction for the tourists and locals.Earlier, mahila mandals of the right bank of the Beas performed ‘maha nati’ on the second day of the carnival. Winter Carnival committee vice-president and Manali SDM Surender Thakur said that the winner of ‘maha nati’ will be awarded a cash prize of Rs 2 lakh and runners-up Rs 1 lakh. Various participants of ‘Voice of Carnival’ mesmerized the audience with their melodious voices.Finals of various events and competitions like fashion show in traditional dresses, folk dance, classical dance, dance on new and old film songs, folk instruments and talent show, etc, were organized today in the Manu Rangshala. Various artistes enthralled the audience by performing cultural programmes. The spectators were spellbound witnessing the spectacular performances by the artistes from different parts of the state and country.The finals of the Winter Queen beauty pageant, a major highlight of the festival, will be held tonight and winners of various competitions and events will be awarded by the chief guest during the closing ceremony.Colourful cultural programs were presented during Manu Rangshala. Folk singer Inderjeet enthralled the audience with his Kullvi numbers. Artistes Virender Sharma, Subhash Rana, Vijay Kumar, Prince Garg and Shweta Rana presented pahari, Punjabi and film songs and won applause of the audience. Besides, performances by various other artistes also fascinated the audience.The participants of Winter Queen captivated the spectators by their enchanting performance. Open air auditorium remained jam-packed with the audience even amid freezing temperature.The businessmen of Manali were thankful to the government and Education, Language, Art and Culture minister Govind Singh Thakur for promoting the event, which helped boost tourism during the off-season.Vinay, a local resident, said the carnival should be made more attractive by providing wide publicity. Proper marketing of the event should be done. He said the event promotes tourism and trade. The carnival provides a platform to various artists of different states to showcase their talent, he added.Artistes enthral audience||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/maha-nati-wows-tourists-at-winter-carnival-in-manali-358937
07-01-2022||Dipender Manta||Tourists stuck on Rangri-Manali road||Tribune News ServiceMandi, January 6Many tourists spent a sleepless night in their vehicles on the Rangri to Manali road on Wednesday due to a long traffic jam following heavy snowfall in the region. The road has become slippery for the movement of vehicles due snow deposits on the ground.According to tourists, their vehicles skidded while driving between Manali and Rangri on Wednesday night. As a result, hundreds of vehicles remained stuck till morning. They were forced to spend the night in their vehicles in bone-chilling cold.Pradeep Saini, a tourist from Gurugram, said, “It was a horrible experience. We were stuck at multiple places as our car skidded off the road. We negotiated the first steep slippery point after efforts for two hours. Just 3 km before Manali, we got stuck in a long jam. We tried to move forward for nearly three hours. Eventually, we abandoned our vehicle and started walking towards Manali town. We reached at our hotel around 3 am.”Kullu SP Gurdev Chand Sharma said that a few vehicles skidded off the road near Manali, leading to a long traffic jam. The vehicles were removed from the area with the help of cranes this morning while the police took the stranded tourists to nearby hotels.Atal Tunnel road restoredThe Border Roads Organisation (BRO) started snow clearance operations on the Manali-Leh highway on Thursday after the weather turned favourable. The roads between Manali and Kothi and the one leading to the Atal Tunnel were restored.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/tourists-stuck-on-rangri-manali-road-358935
07-01-2022||Bhanu P Lohumi||Upper areas of Kullu, Shimla cut off due to heavy snowfall||Tribune News ServiceShimla, January 6Normal life was thrown out of gear in several parts of the state as heavy snowfall in tribal areas and other upper reaches and widespread rains in middle and lower hills resulted in blockade of roads and disruption of power supply.As many as 353 roads, including 168 in Lahaul and Spiti, 62 in Kinnaur, 55 in Chamba, 51 in Kullu, nine in Shimla and eight in Mandi district, are closed and 440 transformers are non-functional. Thick fog engulfed Shimla and other middle hills, reducing visibility to a few meters and disrupting vehicular traffic while strong icy winds swept the region. The tribal areas of Lahaul and Spiti, Kinnaur and Pangi and remote Dodra Kwar and Bara Bhangal and upper areas of Kullu and Shimla district were cut off due to snow while efforts were on to clear the roads.Vehicular traffic has been restored on the Kufri-Fagu stretch while Shimla-Rampur and Shimla-Rohru roads were also opened after snow was removed at Narkanda and Kharapathar. Theog-Chopal road has also been cleared and adequate machinery and manpower has been deployed at vulnerable stretches to meet any eventuality, Shimla Deputy Commissioner Aditya Negi said. Kothi recorded 70 mm snow, followed by Hansa 31 cm, Manaki 22 cm, Gondola 20 cm, Khadrala 18 cm, Kalpa 17 cm, Kufri 15 cm, Moorang 13 cm, Pooh 12 cm and Keylong 9 cm and intermittent snowfall was continuing at many places, the local MeT station said.As per the data released by the State Emergency Operations Centre (SCOE), Rakchham, Bara Bhangal and Rajgundha in Kangra and Chansel pass recorded 60 cm of fresh snow till this morning while Rohtang top and Sangla received 45 cm snow, followed by Triund, Multhan, Kalpa, Atal Tunnel, Jalori Jot, Parashar Lake, Dodra Kwar and Shikari Mata recording 30 cm snow, Gulaba 25 cm and Nako and Nichar 20 cm.A large number of tourists rushed to adjoining tourist resorts of Kufri and Fagu to enjoy the snowfall.Widespread showers lashed the state and Ghamroor was the wettest with 79 mm rain, followed by Amb 76 mm, Guler 63 mm, Palampur 61 mm, Bangana 60 mm, Kheri 59 mm, Nagrota Suriyan 58 mm, Sujanpur Tira 53 mm, Saloni and Una 51 mm each, Nadaun 50 mm, Dharmpur 49 mm, Nahan 48 mm, Naina Devi and Jogindernagar 46 mm, Pachhad and Sangrah 45 mm.The local MeT office has issued yellow warning of heavy rain in lower and middle hills and heavy snowfall in higher hills on January 8 and heavy snowfall in higher hills on January 9. Day temperatures dropped at many places and Dalhousie was the coldest during the day with a high of 2.6°C while Keylong and Kufri recorded maximum temperature at 3.7°C.Apple growers, farmers elated||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/upper-areas-of-kullu-shimla-cut-off-358934
07-01-2022||Vijay Arora||No transport of minerals sans transit pass, Himachal Pradesh told||Legal CorrespondentShimla, January 6The Himachal Pradesh High Court has directed the state that no minor mineral will be allowed to be transported without transit pass as mandated under the Transportation of Minor Mineral Enforceability of 2015 Rules.HC raps pwd for ‘ignoring’ rulesThe court said in case of transport of minerals from outside the state, compliance of procedure mandated in the rules should be ensured.In case of violation, prompt action be taken against the offenders. The responsibility of the officials concerned would be fixed in case of failure, it directed. A Division Bench comprising Justice Tarlok Singh Chauhan and Justice Jyotsna Rewal Dua observed, "While allowing certain contractors to supply minor minerals, the PWD forgot to ascertain the source. Having turned a blind eye to violations, it now contests the petition seeking enforcement of the rules.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/no-transport-of-minerals-sans-transit-pass-hp-told-358889
