08-01-2022||Shimla||Record one-day spike of 728 Covid cases in HP; educational institutes closed till Jan 26||Himachal Pradesh on Saturday recorded 728 fresh Covid-19 cases, its biggest single-day jump in infections in the last several months, pushing the state’s virus tally to 2,31,587, a health official said.Meanwhile, it was decided in a video conference meeting of Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur with Deputy Commissioners, Superintendents of Police and Chief Medical Officers from Shimla on Saturday that all educational institutions in the state, except medical, dental and nursing colleges, would remain closed till January 26 to ensure students’ safety, an official spokesperson said.Thakur directed the officers to ensure that coronavirus testings are enhanced to check the spread of third wave of the pandemic.Thirty-three more students of the National Institute of Technology (NIT) in Hamirpur district tested positive for COVID-19 on Saturday, forcing the authorities to make Covid test mandatory for all such people who will visit the district hospitals for check-up for any ailment, a district official said.The death toll from the pandemic remained unchanged at 3,864 as no new fatality linked to the disease was reported on Saturday.The number of active coronavirus cases in the state climbed to 2,811 from 2,153 on Friday, a state health department official said.Seventy more patients recovered from the viral disease. With this, the total number of recoveries in Himachal Pradesh stands at 2,24,890, he said.A maximum of 219 fresh coronavirus cases were found in Kangra, followed by 116 in Solan, 75 in Hamirpur, 68 in Kullu, 63 in Shimla, 48 in Sirmaur, 36 in Una, 33 in Mandi, 26 in Bilaspur, 25 in Kinnaur, 15 in Chamba and four in Lahaul-Spiti, the official said.A total of 173 NIT Hamirpur students have been found infected with the coronavirus in the last four days. Forty-two NIT students tested positive for COVID-19 on Wednesday, 39 on Thursday and on 59 on Friday, the district official said.Earlier this week, nine NIT students also tested positive. So, the total number of coronavirus positive NIT students this week rose to 182, he added.The NIT was already declared as ‘mini containment zone’ on Friday to check spread of the virus.Apart from the 32 NIT students, 42 other people including three students of ITI Bani tested positive for Covid-19 in Hamirpur district on Saturday, the official said.This has raised the number of active cases to 305 in the district. All of them have been quarantined at their places.He said that in all 656 samples were tested on Saturday and the results of 75 of them came out positive.The number of total confirmed cases in the district has risen to 18,393 as against 17,799 recoveries, he added.He said the death toll from the pandemic remained unchanged at 308 in Hamirpur as no fatality was reported in the district on Saturday.Meanwhile, a district health official said that Covid test was made mandatory in the hospitals of Hamirpur district for all such patients visiting the facilities for check-up.The order has been issued in the wake of the spurt in Covid-19 cases in the district in general and educational institutions in particular.Hamirpur Medical College Hospital Medical Superintendent Ramesh Chauhan said the new order has led to further detection of more Covid cases during the last two days and it would help the department to contain the virus spreading in the community.The number of new cases in the district has witnessed a spike in the past few days and the active case count that had come down below 50 last week has gone up to 305 now. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/himachal-sees-record-one-day-spike-of-728-coronavirus-cases-359446
08-01-2022||Some pick-up drivers carry long pipes that protrude out of the vehicles. When the vehicles go uphill or downhill||Carry pipes in appropriate vehicles||Repair StreetlightsStreetlights at Koti village in Reckong Peo area are not functional for the past one month. After the sunset, the streets are covered in darkness, causing inconvenience to people. The authorities should repair or replace the street lights at the earliest. — Dayal Negi, Reckong PeoWhat our readers sayIs a civic issue bothering you? Are you agitated over the lack of concern? Is there something heartening that you feel needs to be highlighted?The Tribune invites its readers to have their say. Email at:hpreadersfeedback @tribunemail.com||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/carry-pipes-in-appropriate-vehicles-359266
08-01-2022||Shiksha Balouria||Comet Mensa student wins bronze||Remove anomalies in pay scale: TeachersHimachal Pradesh School Lecturer Association (HPSLA) welcomed the new pay revision notification and urged the government to remove the discrepancies. He said the new pay scale should be fixed at the same level as that of the Punjab Government. He said the lecturers' union had already submitted a memorandum to the Finance Department and a delegation led by president of HPSLA, Kesar Singh would meet the Chief Minister and the Education Minister soon. He urged the government to implement the court decision to restore the pension of contract lecturers appointed before 2003.‘Irregularities in appointments at HPU’The Shimla unit of the Democratic Youth Federation of India (DYFI) alleged there were irregularities in the appointments being made at the university. The panel demanded that there should be no application fee for women candidates applying for jobs advertised by the university. Secretary Amit said HPU was robbing youth by charging Rs 2,000 for group B and Rs 1,200 for group C and D jobs as application fee. “The state talks of charging no application fee from women, but HPU is doing the opposite,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/comet-mensa-student-wins-bronze-359264
08-01-2022||Mandi||13 labourers hurt in mishap||As many as 13 labourers were injured when the vehicle they were travelling in fell down from a road at Saiglu in Mandi district today. They were on way to Saiglu from Nahlog when the incident occurred.The injured victims have been admitted to a nearby hospital. All of them are natives of West Bengal and are out of danger. “A case has been registered and investigation is underway,” said a police officer. Meanwhile, the local administration gave a relief of Rs 2,000 each to all injured persons.—TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/13-labourers-hurt-in-mishap-359263
08-01-2022||Solan||Nahan government doctor held for working at Solan private hospital||A team of the Vigilance and Anti-Corruption Bureau yesterday arrested Dr Girish Sharma, Head of Anaesthesia Department, Dr YS Parmar Government Medical College, Nahan, while providing services at a private hospital at Solan in violation of the rules.IGP, Vigilance Bureau, Rameshwar Thakur, said that the doctor was arrested last evening and he got bail from a Nahan court today.The bureau sleuths had received complaints that Dr Sharma was often found rendering services in private hospitals and patients at the medical college had to wait for weeks for him.A bureau team raided a private hospital and caught red-handed Dr Sharma while providing services there. He was reportedly on leave from the medical college.—TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/govt-doc-held-for-working-at-pvt-hospital-359262
08-01-2022||Shimla||RERA website launched||Urban Development Minister Suresh Bhardwaj today launched the website of the HP Real Estate Regulatory Authority (RERA), www.hprera.nic.in, to facilitate all stakeholders and promoters through the digital medium.Bhardwaj said that digitisation was the need of the hour and to avail of a smart solution, it was important to make the right use of technology. The stakeholders and promoters could get information at the click of a button and would not have to visit the RERA office.Chairman of RERA Srikant Baldi said that the authority was able to launch a citizen centric and friendly web portal designed and developed by the National Informatic Centre (NIC) Himachal with active guidance and support from Omidyar Network and Praxil Global Alliance.He said the primary objective of RERA was to bring transparency, timely delivery of real estate projects and generate faith and confidence among buyers. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/rera-website-launched-359261
08-01-2022||Shimla||574 new Covid cases, one death in Himachal Pradesh||As many as 574 Covid cases were reported in the state today, taking the tally to 230,859. Besides, one person died in Mandi.—TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/574-new-cases-one-death-in-himachal-pradesh-359260
08-01-2022||Shimla||Safeguarding Himalayan biodiversity Herculean task||To protect highly endangered species, ranging from the elusive endangered pheasant western tragopan to the musk deer and the Himalayan tahr in the Great Himalayan National Park, a Unesco World Heritage site in the north-west Himalayas, is a Herculean task for a forest official.Spread over 90,540 haPark authorities fear for their vulnerability to poaching from human settlements in the buffer zone known as an eco-zone.Roshan Chaudhary, who retired as Deputy Ranger on December 31 last year, had been this cumbersome job for the past 33 years of service. He would leave for patrolling in the morning and return at the sunset. And when there was a tip-off on the movement of poachers, he would camp there for several nights at a stretch to conserve the Western Himalayan biodiversity.Besides the endangered species of animals, his job was to protect a host of native avifauna and mammal species and a large number of medicinal plants.“Human settlements pose the greatest threat to park fauna and flora species, besides illicit felling,” says Chaudhary. According to him, other threats to the park include agriculture, traditional grazing and hydropower development. He adds most of the trekking routes are closely regulated by camera trapping devices. Locals often venture into forests in groups to collect expensive herbs. They stay for weeks to collect them. — IANS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/safeguarding-himalayan-biodiversity-herculean-task-359258
08-01-2022||---||Inspect leprosy home, HC tells Shimla DC||Vijay AroraShimla, January 7The HP High Court today directed the Shimla Deputy Commissioner to inspect the leprosy home situated at Leprosy Colony, Phagli, and ensure necessary repair work there within four weeks.A Division Bench comprising Chief Justice Mohammad Rafiq and Justice Jyotsna Rewal Dua passed the order on a petition filed by Neeraj Shashwat, who alleged therein that a building allotted to leprosy patients at Phagli in Shimla by the government almost a decade ago was in a shambles.The petitioner alleged that since then the government had not undertaken maintenance work in the building. He stated that the leprosy patients had no toilets, no proper water facility, electric fittings were dangling dangerously, and windows and doors were broken. Moreover, the sewerage was leaking and as a result, patients had to go out in the open to ease themselves.He alleged that he had taken up the matter with various authorities but none of them showed interest in improving the condition of the patients. The winter had already set in and snowfall would aggravate the their plight. The petitioner requested the court for directions to the state to provide and maintain the basic amenities in the Leprosy Colony with immediate effect. While passing the aforesaid order, the court listed the matter for compliance of its order on March 7.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/inspect-leprosy-home-hc-tells-shimla-dc-359257
08-01-2022||---||High Court permits Himachal Pradesh to open trauma centre at IGMC-Shimla||Legal CorrespondentShimla, January 7The HP High Court today permitted the state to open new OPD block/trauma ward at the IGMC, Shimla, on purely humanitarian consideration, solely for the purpose of patients of Covid-19.While passing this interim order, a division bench comprising Justice Tarlok Singh Chauhan and Justice Satyen Vaidya observed that “In view of the gravity of Covid-19, more particularly its variant omicron, that is spreading widely in the entire country, we deem it proper to permit the petitioner state to open new OPD block/trauma ward at IGMC, Shimla, on purely humanitarian consideration, solely for the purpose of patients of Covid-19.”The court further clarified that “this order is being passed taking into consideration the exigencies of the prevalent conditions and shall not be construed to be conferring any kind of right upon the petitioner state or any other person or authority and this order shall otherwise also not be treated or cited as a precedent, till and so long, the issue of jurisdiction is not decided.”The court also issued notice to the Union Ministry of Environment and Forest on a petition filed by the state government challenging the decision of the Supervisory Committee (constituted by the NGT for granting approval for such projects), whereby it had advised the state department to approach the National Green Tribunal for further approval/sanction of the new OPD block, including trauma ward at the IGMC.During the course of hearing the senior counsel for the state government, Vinay Kuthiala contended in the petition that the state government has a statutory duty and obligation under the HP Town and Country Planning Act as well as the HP Municipal Corporation Act. On account of the order of the NGT it is unable to perform its statutory and constitutional duties.It was further alleged that the NGT had exceeded its jurisdiction while passing the aforesaid order. It was further contended that the NGT did not have the jurisdiction to pass orders in matters which do not fall within the purview of the forest, water and the environment-related enactments.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/high-court-permits-state-to-open-trauma-centre-at-igmc-359256
08-01-2022||---||Biometric attendance put on hold  in Baddi-Barotiwala-Nalagarh belt||Tribune News ServiceSolan, January 7Sub Divisional Magistrate (SDM), Nalagarh, today ordered immediate halt to biometric attendances in all government offices as well as industrial unit to prevent the spread of Covid-19.“Since a rapid increase has been registered in the number of Covid cases in this bordering industrial belt of Baddi-Barotiwala-Nalagarh, some measures have to immediately put in place to check its spread,” informed SDM Nalagarh Mahendra Pal.In addition to this, a complete ban has also been imposed on community food in this bordering industrial belt to prevent the spread of Omicron variant of Covid-19. The officials have strictly directed the industry staff to adhere to these directions or face action.The area houses about 2,000 industrial units and at least 1.5 lakh migrant population besides truckers who commute from high load states. Even industry executives, who commute from the neighbouring states like Punjab, Haryana and Chandigarh, are a potential risk to the area which has seen a huge surge in the Covid cases in the earlier two waves.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/biometric-attendance-put-on-hold-in-bbn-belt-359254
08-01-2022||Shimla||Himachal Pradesh to venture into oak tussar, eri silk cultivation||Following the footsteps of Assam and Jammu and Kashmir, Himachal is planning to venture into the production of oak tussar and eri silk in a big way with large castor and oak plantations growing naturally in various parts of the state.Officials visit Assam, J&KOfficials of the sericulture wing visited Assam and Jammu and Kashmir last month to study the production of eri and oak silk as many parts of our state have similar agro climatic conditions. Rakesh Prajapati, Director, IndustriesThough so far about 10,500 farmers in Himachal are into the cultivation of shehtoot (mulberry) which gives fine quality silk, the state is now keen on venturing into the production of eri silk, 90 per cent of which is produced by Assam alone. Efforts are on to also tap the potential for oak silk, primarily produced by Jammu and Kashmir.“Officials of the sericulture wing visited Assam and Jammu and Kashmir last month to study the production of eri and oak silk as many parts of our state have similar agro climatic conditions,” said Rakesh Prajapati, Director, Industries. He said oak silk could help supplement the income of farmers.The fact that both eri and oak silk can be blended very well with pashmina and wool will only add value addition to Himachali handicrafts and enhance their quality and price. “Vast areas in Bilaspur, Solan, Kangra and Una districts have natural castor cultivation which is the main food for eri silk worms. Encouraging farmers to take to eri silk cultivation will help supplement their income,” says Baldev Chauhan, Deputy Director, Sericulture wing of the Industries Department.Chauhan along with a team of officials had also visited Srinagar to see how oak silk was being reared. There is potential for cultivation of oak silk in higher reaches of districts of Shimla, Mandi and banjar area of Kullu. A Research Extension Centre of the Central Silk Board at Palampur is undertaking research in exploring possibility of cultivating oak tussar and eri silk. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/state-to-venture-into-oak-tussar-eri-silk-cultivation-359253
08-01-2022||Dipender Manta||Apple growers at Kullu relieved after fresh snowfall||Tribune News ServiceMandi, January 7Apple orchardists in Kullu and Mandi districts are feeling relieved following recent snowfall and rain after a prolonged dry spell. Higher reaches of Kullu and Mandi districts had received mild snowfall in the first week of December last year, while lower region experienced rain. Thereafter, a wet spell eluded the region.less Chances of diseasesEarly snowfall in December and January is good as it reduces the chances of the spread of diseases like canker, woolly aphid and root rot. Nakul Khullar, Apple growerOn January 4, weather turned inclement and the higher reaches of Mandi, Kullu and Lahaul Spiti districts received fresh snow in apple orchards, delighting apple growers of this region. Snow is considered white manure for the production of apple crop. The fresh snowfall will also help complete the required chilling hours for apple orchards.Mandi, Kullu and Lahaul Spiti is in the grip of cold waves after rain in lower reaches and snowfall in higher reaches. About 1,600 to 1,800 chilling hours are needed for better apple crop. Chilling hours refer to the period when apple plants remain at a temperature below freezing point during the dormancy period. This allows the apple trees to get moisture.Nakul Khullar, a progressive apple grower of Kullu valley, said, “The farmers of Kullu-Manali are happy with the fresh spell of snow and rain in their apple orchards, which will enable apple plants get the required chilling hours. The dry spell in this region since the first week of December had worried the apple growers.”Ravi Sisodiya, an apple grower of Seraj valley in Mandi district, said, “The apple crop is sensitive to the prevailing conditions early on and snowfall and chilling temperatures are key factors for good harvest.”“We are hopeful that timely snowfall would play a crucial role in better production of apple crop in Mandi district,” he said.Big areas of Seraj and Karsog valleys are under apple cultivation, while in Kullu district the fruit is grown in Banjar, Ani, Nirmand, Kullu and Manali subdivision.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/apple-growers-at-kullu-relieved-359252
08-01-2022||---||Nauni varsity sells  1 lakh plants in 10 days||Tribune News ServiceSolan, January 7Over 1 lakh temperate plants were sold by staff of Dr YS Parmar University of Horticulture and Forestry, Nauni, in the past 10 days. With this, the university has fulfilled the demand of farmers, who had registered on the university’s portal.Farmers purchase plants from the university nurseries and the Krishi Vigyan Kendra at Kandaghat. To streamline the mechanism, the farmers who had registered and submitted their request on the university’s portal, were told about the allotment of plants in December. Information such as number of allotted plants, date and the nursery from where these plants would be available to them was also conveyed. This also helped restrict large gatherings. In the past 10 days, over 1,900 farmers were allotted plants of apricot, pear, plum, pomegranate, kiwi and walnut.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/nauni-varsity-sells-1l-plants-in-10-days-359251
08-01-2022||---||PM's security breach was deliberate: BJP||Tribune News ServiceShimla, January 7The day (January 5) when Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s security was breached at Ferozepur will be remembered as a black day in the history of India, said BJP leaders here today. They held a protest against the Punjab Government and the Congress on The Ridge here.BJP’s state general secretary Trilok Kapoor, who led the protest, said that the lapse in the Prime Minister’s security at Ferozepur on Wednesday leading to his convoy being stranded on a flyover was the result of deliberate blocking of the road by protesters.“The glaring lapse that occurred in our Prime Minister’s security in Punjab is shocking as such a situation had not been witnessed even during the worst days of terrorism and even in terror-infested areas,” he said. “Never in the history of India had any state police force been instructed to derail the security arrangements of the Prime Minister,” he alleged.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/pms-security-breach-was-deliberate-bjp-359249
08-01-2022||Palampur||Himachal flour millers flay move to impose market fee||The Himachal Pradesh Flour Millers Association today criticised the recent decision of the Himachal Pradesh Government to impose a one per cent market fee on ‘atta’, ‘suji’ and ‘maida’ in the state. The association said the decision of the state government was uncalled for, it should immediately withdraw this notification.Addressing a news conference here today, Jagmohan Gupta, chief patron of the Himachal Pradesh Flour Millers Association, said the state government was already charging one per cent market fee on raw material being used in the flour mills, therefore there was no justification in imposing one per cent additional market fee on the finished goods.He said the Union Government had already passed an ordinance regarding the Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) on June 5, 2020, directing the state governments to abolish the market fees for the creation of an ecosystem where farmers and traders enjoy a barrier-free inter-state and intra state trade of farmers’ produce.Later, after the promulgation of this ordinance, the state government abolished the market fees to give immediate relief to farmers, traders and the industries involved in the end-use of the farmers’ produce, who were facing distress due to the Covid-19 pandemic. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/flour-millers-flay-move-to-impose-market-fee-359248
08-01-2022||---||Himachal: Baddi police feted for 'Third Eye' project||Tribune News ServiceShimla, January 7The Third Eye, an evidence-based policing with CCTV surveillance matrix in the Baddi-Barotiwala-Nalagarh (BBN) industrial hub, had helped reduce crime by 30 per cent, said DGP Sanjay Kundu.Former Baddi SP Rohit Malpani (now SP, cyber crime), under whose supervision the project was implemented, received the National e-Governance Silver Award from Dr Jitender Singh, Minister of State, Ministry of Personnel, Public Grievances and Pensions, at Hyderabad today, during the 24th national conference on e-Governance.Congratulating the team on the achievement, Kundu said the recovery rate of stolen property was 100 per cent.The project was implemented under the public-private partnership, in coordination with the industries in BBN area, without seeking any financial assistance from the government, he said.As many as 2,038 CCTV cameras were installed in Baddi district. “Besides initiatives such as geotagging of CCTVs on Google Maps, and surveillance through vehicle-mounted cameras, a cyber lab facilitating CCTV footage analysis was also renovated,” he said.To ensure the CCTVs functioned uninterrupted, an in-house wing was set up by the Baddi police and suggestions were also sought from the industry representatives to enhance its effectiveness, the DGP said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/baddi-police-feted-for-third-eye-project-359247
08-01-2022||---||Himachal Pradesh's first flower mandi inaugurated at Parwanoo||Solan, January 7Agriculture Minister Virender Kanwar today said the first flower mandi in the state at Parwanoo would help double farmers’ income.Ten shops have been set up in the first phase and over 100 shops will be set up in the next phase, on which Rs 22 crore will be incurred, he said.He was addressing a gathering after inaugurating the mandi built at a cost of Rs 2.50 crore at Parwanoo today. “Agriculture and horticulture are the mainstays of the state’s economy on which 70 per cent of the state’s population is dependent. Agriculture as well as its allied sectors contribute nearly 13.62 per cent to the state’s gross domestic produce. As much as 90 per cent of the state’s population reside in villages.”Kanwar lauded the efforts of the Agriculture Marketing Board during the Covid pandemic and said this had increased the share of agriculture in the state’s GDP from 2 to 3 per cent.He said Himachal contributed nearly 25 per cent to Delhi markets. He said the second such mandi would be opened at Una and a sum of Rs 260 crore was being incurred on opening new sabzi mandis and maintenance.He elaborated on the initiatives of his department and announced a reduction of rentals of 10 shops in the newly opened flower mandi to half.He said a digital sabzi mandi spread over 250 bigha was also being planned for Solan.He released a booklet on herbal and agricultural products prepared by the Agriculture Produce Market Committee (APMC), Solan, on the occasion.Health and Family Welfare Minister Dr Rajiv Saizal said the work to construct an apple mandi at Parwanoo at a cost of Rs 30 crore was in an advance stage.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/states-first-flower-mandi-inaugurated-at-parwanoo-359245
08-01-2022||---||Rohru's Ashima emerges Winter Queen at Manali||Abhinav VashishtKULLU, JANUARY 7Ashima Chauhan from Rohru of Shimla was crowned Winter Queen at the concluding ceremony of five-day long national Winter Carnival at Manali yesterday. She was awarded Rs 1,00,000 and a crown by the chief guest Education, Language, Art and Culture minister Govind Singh Thakur.Ashima said that she was pursuing MBBS degree in Hong Kong and would become a doctor and serve the society. She said that she would continue to participate in beauty contests whenever she got a chance and would spend the money received from these competitions for the education of poor children. She credited her success to her father Balwant and mother Parshotma.Tapti Thakur of Bhopal, Madhya Pradesh, was adjudged the first runner-up and Ipshita Kashyap of Dalhousie, Chamba, was the second runner-up. Besides crowns, Tapti was awarded with Rs 50,000 and Ipshita was presented Rs 30,000 by the chief guest.Abhijeet won the “Voice of Carnival” competition while Urmila Soni stood second and Gurpreet Singh and Gurpreet-2 achieved third place.Mahila Mandals of the right bank of the Beas won the ‘maha nati’ and were awarded Rs 2 lakh while Mahila Mandals of the left bank remained runners-up and were presented with Rs 1 lakh.The tug-of-war contest was won by Mahila Mandal of Himri village. Besides awards were presented to the winners of various events like fashion show in traditional dresses, folk dance, classical dance, dance on new and old film songs, folk instruments and talent show, etc.A lot of enthusiasm could be seen among the people of the valley regarding the carnival as it was being held after two years due to Covid crisis. The tourist influx to the valley had increased due to the arrival of a large number of tourists and participants for the Winter Carnival, increasing the occupancy in the hotels of Manali.The Winter Carnival committee president and Kullu DC Ashutosh Garg thanked all the members of the Winter Carnival Committee, volunteers and the masses for successful organization of the carnival. He said that such cultural events promote the tourism industry and showcase the traditional heritage of the region.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/rohrus-ashima-emerges-winter-queen-at-manali-359244
08-01-2022||---||Punjab CM's effigy burnt in Mandi||Tribune News ServiceMandi, January 7The activists of Bharatiya Janata Yuva Morcha, Mandi, today burnt the effigy of Charanjit Singh Channi, Chief Minister of Punjab, to express their resentment over the security lapse concerning Prime Minister Narendra Modi during his visit in Punjab yesterday.They alleged that it was a serious lapse on the part of the Punjab government as it failed to provide adequate security to the Prime Minister. As a result, the Prime Minister was forced to return midway.They demanded ouster of the Congress government of Punjab and imposition of President’s rule.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/punjab-cms-effigy-burnt-in-mandi-359243
08-01-2022||Lalit Mohan||Illegally used, Una police want 376 arms licences cancelled||Tribune News ServiceDharamsala, January 7Una police has written to competent authorities to cancel 376 arms licences in the district. Sources here said that the police have sought cancellation of arms licenses on the plea that arms were being used for illegal activities and not self-protection for which they were issued.Being used to settle personal disputesIt has been found that people are using licensed arms to settle personal disputes. Una district has many land disputes and people are using their licensed arms to settle personal scores. So, wherever people have used their licensed arms to threaten others, we have recommended to the competent authorities to cancel them. —  Arjit Sen, UNA SPThe sources here said that there were 4,735 arms licences in Una which was a huge number vis-à-vis population of the district which was about 5.5 lakh. It means that almost every 10th adult person in the district has a licensed arm. According to the police, many licensed arms were now being used for personal land disputes by people which was leading to registration of cases under the Arms Act. In many cases the arms were found to have been used in murder cases also.The SP Una Arjit Sen, who has written to competent authorities, including the district magistrate and sub magistrates in the district, for cancellation of 346 arms licences, when contacted, said that the cases registered under the Arms Act in the district have been on the rise.“It has been found that people are using licensed arms in personal disputes. Una district has many land disputes and people are using the licensed arms to settle personal scores. So where ever the people have used their licensed arms to threaten others we have recommended to the competent authorities to cancel them”, he said.The sources here said that most of the arms registered against licenses in Una district are being carried in families for generations. Most of licensed arms in the district are of single or double barrel guns, which have been carried along generations in families. The district was earlier part of Punjab. Many people from the district have remained part of Indian army. The arms licenses to these people were issued either for self-protection or protection of crops against wild animals.However, police officials now feel that the licensed arms are being used in illegal activities also. The drug addiction and cases registered under the NDPS Act in the district have been increasing. Besides, illegal mining has also been prevalent in the district. In many cases the licensed arms were used in conflicts among those involved in illegal mining.The police is of the view that there should be review of arms licences issued in Una district and arms license of people with doubtful integrity should be cancelled.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/illegally-used-una-police-want-376-arms-licences-cancelled-359242
08-01-2022||---||20 stranded tourists rescued from Himachal's Lahaul||Tribune News ServiceMandi, January 7The police today evacuated 20 tourists from Lahaul to Manali. They were stranded in Lahaul for the past four days due to sudden heavy snowfall near the Atal Tunnel on the Manali-Leh highway.According to sources, the Border Roads Organisation (BRO) restored the road between Manali and Lahaul today for the movement of 4x4 vehicles. As a result, 23 vehicles crossed Lahaul toward Manali with the help of policemen. Tourists heaved a sigh of relief on reaching Manali.Meanwhile, tourists were not allowed to move beyond Nehru Kund toward the Solang valley from Manali. There were reports that at a few places on the Kullu-Manali highway, shooting stones were rolling down, posing a serious threat to the lives of travellers.In the wake of the forecast of inclement weather, the district administrations of Mandi and Kullu have issued advisories to tourists and locals not to go to higher reaches. Mandi DC Arindam Chaudhari said that tourist places such as Shikari Devi, Prashar Lake and Kamrunag Lake were covered with snow these days. “There is a forecast of snowfall and rain in Mandi on January 8. So, tourists and locals are advised not to venture into high altitude areas for next few days for trekking expeditions or recreation.Kullu DC Ashutosh Garg also urged tourists to avoid going to high altitude areas.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/20-stranded-tourists-rescued-from-lahaul-359240
08-01-2022||Solan||Snowfall in higher areas of Himachal's Sirmaur||Higher reaches of Sirmaur district Haripurdhar and Rajgarh witnessed snowfall yesterday plunging the area into extreme cold.The residents were greeted to a while mantle which forced them to stay indoors. Those venturing out for exigencies faced hardships as several rural roads were cut off owing to several inches snow.The district administration was on its feet to restore the closed roads to ensure connectivity in these areas.Sirmaur DC RK Gautamsaid Haripur-Kupvi road which was closed owing to snowfall was restored this evening. He said emergency arrangements like earth excavation machines were kept ready for opening the roads in areas where heavy snowfall is witnessed during this time. With overcast conditions prevailing in the district today more snow was likely to fall in the coming days. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/snowfall-in-higher-areas-of-sirmaur-359239
08-01-2022||---||Cold wave intensifies in Himachal, minimum temperature dips||Tribune News ServiceShimla, January 7Piercing cold wave sweeping the state further intensified today. Minimum temperatures dropped by few notches as strong velocity icy winds continued to lash the region.As many as 238 roads were still blockedwhich include 162 in Lahaul and Spiti, 46 in Chamba, 18 in Kullu, eight in Kinnaur, three in Mandi and one in Shimla district.The sky remained overcast and pale sun failed to warm the region. State capital Shimla had partially overcast sky in the morning and thick fog engulfed the town as the day advanced. Water pipes froze and burst at many places in mid and higher hills.Barring scattered light rains at isolated places, the weather remained dry in the region. Dalhousie was wettest with 18 mm rains while Chamba recorded 9 mm rains, followed by Shahpur and Bhoranj 6 mm, Baldwara 5 mm, Palampur 3.5 mm and Guler, Sujanpur Tira, Kangra and Nahan 3 mm.Keylong and Kalpa in tribal districts of Lahaul and Spiti and Kinnaur recorded minimum temperatures at minus 9.0°C and minus 4.1 °C while Kufri, Manali and Dalhousie shivered at minus 1°C, 0°C and 1.5°C. Keylong was the coldest during the day also at minus 1.2°C while Dalhousie and Kalpa recorded minimum temperatures at 3.7°C and 4°C, followed by Kufri at 5.1°C, Manali at 7°C and Shimla at 9.8 °C while Sundernagar was the warmest during the day at 17.7 °C.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/cold-wave-intensifies-minimum-temp-dips-359238
08-01-2022||Subhash Rajta||Uncertainty over Shimla Ridge restoration project||Tribune News ServiceShimla, January 7The Ridge restoration is one of the key projects to be dropped from the list of works to be funded by the Shimla Smart City Mission. Another major project that might miss out on the Smart City funding is the proposed construction of a Municipal Corporation building at an estimated cost of Rs 58 crore.Clearance-related issuesSeek help of NGTWe are requesting the agencies concerned to process our case and put it up for NGT’s consideration — Satya Kaundal, Mayor“Smart City approved a budget of Rs 22 crore long back for The Ridge restoration, but there are clearance-related issues with the project. If the departments concerned can sort out these hindrances in a couple of months, Smart City could still consider funding the project,” said Brahm Prakash, GM (Technical), Smart City.The project has been hanging fire for a while now because the MC has not been able to get clearance from the Forest Department. While the Forest Department is insisting on clearance under the Forest Conservation Act, the MC is trying to get clearance at the local level.Meanwhile, the Smart City BoD has asked the MC to complete the formalities for the construction the MC office within 2-3 months. The MC intends to house all its departments under one roof for the convenience of people.“We are requesting the agencies concerned to process our case and put it up for NGT’s consideration,” said Mayor Satya Kaundal. MC, however, has limited time to seek NGT permission.The MC, however, has limited time to seek NGT permission. The MC’s proposal for repair of drains in various wards at an estimated cost of Rs 10 crore has been shelved. “This will be done through AMRUT scheme now,” the GM said. Another project that has been shelved for want to clearances or feasibility issues is the proposed lift from Cart Road to Bentley Castle. “It was a Rs 5-crore project. But it has been shelved because of the feasibility and forest related issues,” said Brahm Prakash.The proposal for an alternative road from Sector 3, New Shimla, to Tuti Kandi Zoo, too, has been shelved. “The estimated budged for the project was around Rs 24 crore. It could not take off because of the lack forest clearances, and was hence shelved,” said the GM.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/uncertainty-over-shimla-ridge-restoration-project-359237
08-01-2022||---||Himachal CM Thakur blames former Congress govt for fiscal mess, Rs 50K debt||Tribune News ServiceShimla, January 7Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur today blamed the previous Congress regime for the financial mess in the state, which has left the state under a debt burden of over Rs 50,000 crores.To pomote water sports in Govindsagar lakeAddressing a public meeting at Kandraur in Bilaspur district today, he showered praises on national BJP chief JP Nadda, who has represented Bilaspur Sadar constituency for several years. “Bilaspur district has emerged as a pioneer district in the state due to setting up of AIIMS, credit for which goes to Prime Minister Narendra Modi and JP Nadda,” he stated.He said despite the Covid pandemic, his government had taken numerous steps to strengthen the economy of the state. “The Congress leaders did nothing and to make matters worse tried to politicize this sensitive issue,” he lamented. He reminded the Congress leaders that there were only 50 ventilators in the state when the pandemic spread whereas the state now has over 1000 ventilators.“The last four years of the BJP regime have been dedicated to the development of the state with special focus on upliftment of the poor and the downtrodden,” he remarked. He said the government soon after taking over reins of the state, lowered the age for availing benefits of old age pension, without income limit criteria, from 80 years to 70 years.Thakur said programmes like Jan Manch, CM Helpline 1100, Sahara Yojana, Mukhya Mantri Grihini Suvidha Yojna, Himcare and Mukhya Mantri Swavlamban Yojna have proved boon for the people of the state. Himachal Pradesh had emerged as the first state in the country to become smoke-free state having every household with LPG gas connection.Food and Civil Supplies Minister Rajinder Garg and MLA Bilaspur Sadar Subhash Thakur also addressed the gathering.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/thakur-blames-former-cong-govt-for-fiscal-mess-50k-debt-359234
08-01-2022||Subhash Rajta||Only 1% in 13-15 age group use tobacco in Himachal||Tribune News ServiceShimla, January 7Himachal Pradesh has been ranked the best in the country in tobacco control among children aged 13-15 years by Global Youth Tobacco Survey. Compared to Arunachal Pradesh and Mizoram, where the tobacco prevalence has been found the highest in the country at 58 per cent, only 1 per cent children use tobacco products in Himachal.Besides, the state has witnessed a significant decline in the use of tobacco among adults too. The survey in 2016-17 recorded a decline of 24 per cent in tobacco use from 2010. “If we go by the real-time data at present, the decline is roughly around 50 per cent. It puts us among the best performing states on this count,” said Dr Gopal Chauhan, state programme officer for tobacco control.The sharp reduction in tobacco use could be attributed to the programme’s success in reducing the exposure of smoking at home. “In the 2010 GATS survey, 82.5 per cent adults were exposed to smoke at home. Thanks to sustained efforts, the number came down to 32.9% in the second survey in 2016,” he said. Dr Chauhan considers the lowest prevalence of tobacco use among kids as the biggest success. “If we are able to keep a child away from tobacco in this age group, his chances of getting addicted later in life reduce significantly. Also, it is difficult to give up tobacco if one has started using it early in life,” he said.The other is that it considerably reduces the possibility of children going for some other form of substance use. “Tobacco is the gateway to the world of drugs. If we succeed in keeping youth away from tobacco, we will see less youth doing drugs,” said Dr Chauhan. The state is aiming to bring tobacco use below five per cent by 2030.State tops country in tobacco control||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/nation/only-1-in-13-15-age-group-use-tobacco-in-himachal-359177
