09-01-2022||Shimla||Five-day working with 50 per cent capacity in govt offices in Himachal||With the Covid-19 situation becoming very grim, all state government offices will have a five-day working with 50 per cent attendance and all gatherings will not be allowed to have attendance of more than 100 people indoors and 300 outdoors.The new restrictions come in place because of the fact that the state recorded 728 cases in a single day yesterday even though the casualty figures remain low.The new restrictions will come into force with immediate effect as per the orders issued by the Disaster Management Cell of the revenue department.The government had late last night ordered closure of all educational institutions, including residential schools till January 26 in view of a surge in Covid cases.All nursing and medical colleges have been allowed to remain open but amidst strict Covid protocol.All government offices will remain closed on Saturdays and Sundays and will operate with 50 per cent attendance. These restrictions will not apply to departments dealing with emergency services like health, police, banks, water, electricity, fire, public transport and telecom.A complete ban has also been imposed on holding of langars and community feasts at places of worship across the state.The respective district administrations have been directed to fix the timings for opening and closing of shops and markets or staggering their schedule so that social distancing norms are met.The police and local administration have been directed to ensure strict adherence to social distancing norms and to Covid protocol.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/five-day-working-with-50-per-cent-capacity-in-govt-offices-in-himachal-359675
09-01-2022||Shimla||Himachal Pradesh CM cancels his public events amid spurt in virus cases||Himachal Pradesh Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur on Sunday cancelled his public programmes till January 15 amid a spurt in coronavirus cases in the state, which has reported over 3,000 infections in just 12 days.The state reported eight Covid deaths during the period, pushing its fatality count to 3,864, according to official data.The number of active cases stood at 2,811 on January 8, an eight-time increase from just 344 on December 28, after which 3,007 new infections surfaced in Himachal Pradesh.On December 27, the number of deaths stood at 3,856, the data showed.Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur in a Facebook post on Sunday said he has cancelled his public programmes till January 15 in view of the spurt in cases.An official spokesperson said programmes of the chief minister to be held in Sulah, Badsar, Hamirpur and Nadaun constituencies stand cancelled. All these programmes will be rescheduled at the earliest, he added.Himachal Pradesh had reported 83 Covid cases on January 1, 76 on January 2, 137 on January 3, 260 on January 4, 374 on January 5, 498 on January 6, 574 on January 7 and the highest 728 on January 8, according to the official data.Similarly, the state reported 73 Covid cases on December 28, 52 on December 29, 65 on December 30 and 87 on December 31, the data revealed.The total number of Covid cases on January 8 stood at 2,31,587 from 2,28,580 on December 27.However, no new case of Omicron variant has been detected in Himachal Pradesh, state Health Secretary Amitabh Avasthi said on Sunday.The only case of Omicron variant was detected on December 26. A 45-year-old woman, who had returned from Canada, was found suffering from it. --- PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/himachal-pradesh-cm-cancels-his-public-events-amid-spurt-in-virus-cases-359669
09-01-2022||Shimla||Himachal BJP claims deliberate breach in PM's security during Ferozepur visit, demands imposition of President’s rule||Himachal BJP on Sunday alleged that breach in the security of Prime Minister Narendra Modi during his Ferozepur visit on January 5 by Punjab Government was “deliberate and a premeditated conspiracy” and demanded President’s Rule in Punjab for maintaining law and order and preventing recurrence of such incidence.In a memorandum submitted to President of India through Governor Rajendra Arlekar, a delegation of the party led by chief minister Jai Ram Thakur, state BJP chief Suresh Kashyap along with ministers and senior leaders, the BJP accused the Congress party and Punjab Government of posing threat to the life of Prime Minister by not discharging its duty to provide full security to Prime Minister and allowing the miscreants to stop him from reaching the venue of the meeting.“It is for the first time that Prime Minister had to go back without attending the function due to serious lapse in security arrangements which were never seen before and this would be remembered as a black chapter in the history when the intentions of the Congress party to harm the prime minister were thwarted”, the Memorandum said.Pointing out that the entire responsibility of providing security along the route of carcade of Prime minister was on the state government, the memorandum said that the carcade of PM was stopped on the flyover which comes under firing range of Pakistan and it is intriguing that when the security staff of PM tried to contact the office of the chief minister, there was no response, which speaks volumes of connivance of state government in the sordid incident.A high-level inquiry should be ordered into the incidents and culprits should be brought to the book and president’s rule be imposed in the state as “anarchic situation is prevailing in the state and continuation of such incompetent, incapable, careless and irresponsible government is harmful for the state”, the memorandum says.Later talking to media persons, Chief Minister said that it is possible that the carcade of the PM was stopped by miscreants at the behest of the government and a high-level inquiry should be ordered and stringent action be taken against the guilty.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/himachal-bjp-claims-deliberate-breach-in-pms-security-during-ferozepur-visit-demands-imposition-of-presidents-rule-359650
09-01-2022||---||Herbs farming in Himachal: High hopes||Team SpectrumReeva Sood, 62, a Himachali based in Delhi, has been running an NGO for nearly 32 years, working on projects in several states for women empowerment and sustainable livelihood. A medical emergency for her husband Rajiv, a doctor at RML Hospital, five years back made them take stock of their goals. What bothered the couple was that they had not been able to do anything for the land of their birth.of the state.With her usual verve and thoroughness, Reeva went about rectifying this shortcoming, acquiring land in Una and Kangra, getting the soil tested and plunging wholeheartedly into her next project.In a land lying barren for 50 years, she sowed dragon fruit, moringa, ashwagandha, sarpagandha and black wheat on about 10 acres in Behar Jaswan village, Amb, Una district. “When I started farming in my barren land, people in adjoining areas laughed, dubbing it an experiment by an urbanite,” she says. “In five years, I have got two crops of sarpagandha, three crops of black wheat, plus crops of dragon fruit, ashwagandha, moringa, etc. Not just crops or mature products, I have also been supplying saplings of these medicinal crops to the Government Institute of Indian System of Medicine and Research, Jogindernagar,” says Reeva.Spiti is the first district in India to begin heeng cultivation“We have been in touch with private players, pharmaceutical and even beverage companies, mostly in Una and some in Delhi, for supplying our 100 per cent chemical-free crops/products,” she adds.Reeva is not the only one who has realised the potential of Himachal’s rich soil potential for growing herbs, fruits, flowers and other alternative crops such as sandalwood, heeng, aloe vera, etc. In Nahan, Sirmaur, shopowner Rajesh Bansal, 53, not satisfied with his usual business, ventured into aloe vera and sandalwood cultivation. “In 2015-16, I decided to start sandalwood cultivation and began by planting just four plants, secured from Sunni in Shimla district.” The promising results motivated him to plant 200 saplings of white sandalwood initially and later 10,000 more on his nearly 33-acre farm. In order to meet the expenses, he availed a loan of Rs25 lakh.with his usual business, Rajesh Bansal from Nahan has ventured into aloe vera and sandalwood cultivationBansal hasn’t looked back since, even asking his son Tanish to drop out of engineering from NIT, Hamirpur, and pursue BSc (Agriculture) from a university at Solan. What has proved to be a boon to his venture is the presence of several ayurveda medicine manufacturing industries in the Kala Amb and Paonta Sahib industrial clusters, which readily purchase his produce.Challenges and way forwardThere are many traditional farmers in Himachal who are disheartened and disenchanted by the lack of returns, besides a slew of other dissuading factors like destruction of crops by monkeys, wild boars, etc. Hesitant entrants into herb cultivation, they wonder if it would help supplement their income.Experts from the Department of Forest Products, Dr YS Parmar University of Horticulture and Forestry, Nauni (Solan), say they are getting repeated queries about cultivation of various medicinal plants. The university is providing these farmers with technical knowhow as well as quality plant material.The teething troubles that have emerged for this nascent industry are the lack of marketing avenues and supply-chain problems for medicinal and aromatic plants. There is no specific market available for the sale of medicinal and aromatic plants in Himachal and even in the country. These specific products usually only have a market where the industries are based.But these passionate growers are not easily deterred, as many are in direct contact with herbal industries and wholesale suppliers. “Several farmers approach the local pharmacies, industries and shops for selling the produce but are often disappointed at the lack of a good market rate. Some farmers have quit cultivation at a very early stage,” says Dr Meenu Sood, who heads the Forest Products Department at Nauni university.However, the presence of a large number of FMCG and pharmaceutical companies can be used to their advantage by the farmers, she suggests. “Farmer clusters can establish direct contact with these industries to supply planting material,” she points out.Also, most growers are working individually and not as cooperatives. “That also affects their bargaining power. The cooperatives can attract bigger players to purchase from the fields and collectively take their products to the bigger markets located in Delhi and Amritsar. The farmers can also launch their own products under the technical guidance of the university and market these through various e-commerce platforms or even through their own brand websites,” she adds.The pragmatic Reeva is doing just that. Not the one to rest lightly on her laurels, she has also started a self-help group of 300 women farmers and is training and helping them in various legal aspects for getting them registered as farmers/cultivators.Self-help initiativesBalram, 37, an enterprising farmer operating near Shillai, has found a market for his ashwagandha crop as far away as Jaipur and Jodhpur, all on his own. He has been cultivating ashwagandha, known for imparting vitality and vigour, for at least 10 years now and also motivates others to grow the herb, which is in high demand for its medicinal values, and also facilitates its marketing.Earlier, he had been cultivating garlic, ginger and other traditional crops for years but wasn’t happy with the returns. A decade back, Balram switched to the cultivation of these medicinal crops. “With minimal water requirement or fear of wild animals destroying the yield, these crops have proved to be a boon for land rendered unfit for cultivation,” he explains. “A large number of people who would leave their land untilled and were pursuing other professional ventures, are now growing these crops.”Himachal has been seeing a spurt in herb cultivation in recent years also due to the state government’s policies to promote the conservation of medicinal plants. It also provides financial assistance to farmers in different agro-climatic zones for cultivation of medicinal plants under the National Ayush Mission.However, though most farmers appreciate this initative, they also express disappointment that the trade of these medicinal herbs in the state is highly unorganised. Most small growers are forced to sell their produce to the middlemen at throwaway prices.Selling the produce outside the state can fetch remunerative prices in the herbal markets situated in Amritsar or Khari Baoli (Delhi), but the process involved is unaffordable for small cultivators/growers due to the high cost of transportation and legal implications during the transit.Sixtytwo-year-old Vijay Rana Dhanot, a Jwalamukhi-based ayurvedic doctor, has been growing black tulsi for the past six to seven years. This doctor-turned farmer has also been motivating other farmers to join his passionate cause. Due to his efforts, supplemented by the help of a local organisation, today about 300 farmers in Jwalamukhi and Dehra areas of Kangra district have taken to growing black tulsi and other varieties of the herb.Most of these farmers are growing tulsi in their small farms of 1 to 5 kanals. Not all are successful, but 30 to 40 of these farmers have started earning Rs25,000 to Rs30,000 per kanal. Many others are also growing white museli and sarpagandha.Marketing remains a huge issue, says Dhanot. “Many times the companies invited to purchase our crops barely offer Rs20 to Rs30 per kg of tulsi leaves. However, due to our own efforts, we have been able to sell these leaves for Rs300 to Rs400 per kg. Recently, a group of ayurvedic doctors from Kerala visited us. They took samples of tulsi leaves from our area and got these tested. The nutrient and medicinal value was very high. They are now offering us Rs1,500 per kg for our tulsi leaves because the crop grown by farmers in the Jwalamukhi areas is organic and grown through natural farming,” he says.Dhanot, however, remains disappointed by the government help on marketing these medicinal herbs. “About five to six years ago, we tried to involve government officials in the sale of our produce. It did not prove to be successful. So we are now trying to market our produce on our own,” he adds.Reeva agrees, “It would be better if the government itself approaches the farmers who are trying to bring in change and are taking up natural or organic farming in the state. When farmers go and approach the authorities, it slows down the process.”Problems that need attentionBesides marketing and distribution, there are other problems such as the lack of quality seeds, and the hassles in seeking licences from various departments for setting up processing units, says another farmer from Nahan, Deepak Kumar, 36. Lack of quality planting material affected his yield and he faced difficulties in licensing, which disrupted his plans for setting up of processing units.However, this innovative grower of tulsi, ashwagandha, amla, harer, baheda and nirgundi is determined. Having ventured into this field in 2018, Deepak says it is the prospect of better returns that lured him to herb farming and will make him stick to it despite these initial issues. “A tulsi crop on 1 bigha fetches 25-quintal crop, which gets Rs6,000 per quintal in the market, while paddy barely fetches Rs2,000 per quintal,” he says, explaining the rationale behind putting his faith in this form of farming.Despite initial roadblocks, however, most growers are grateful for the recent initiative by various district administrations such as Kangra, Una and Dharamsala, offering to provide labour for cultivation of herbs through the rural job guarantee scheme. “If the labour component is provided through MNREGA, it would definitely help motivate more farmers towards growing herbs,” says Deepak.With inputs from Lalit Mohan in Dharamsala, Ambika Sharma in Solan, Bhanu P Lohumi in Shimla and Ravinder Sood in PalampurHerb cultivation pushGovt initiatives||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/features/high-hopes-359583
09-01-2022||Shimla||Two held for cyber fraud||The Shimla police have busted a gang of cyber criminals that used to dupe people online by offering jobs. Neeraj Bhati and Shyam Kasana, have been arrested from Noida for cyber frauds.A fraud came to light when a local woman filed a complaint stating that she was offered an online job and asked to register herself with the company on the given link. After registration, she received a message that Rs 36,000 had been debited from her saving bank account.A case under Section 420 of the IPC was registered. The team constituted to investigate the matter found that the culprits were operating from Noida. In a joint operation, the cyber cell and the Boileauganj police of Shimla arrested the accused from Noida. Section 66-D of the IT Act has also been added to the FIR. Further investigation is going on, the police said. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/two-held-for-cyber-fraud-359518
09-01-2022||UNA||Shepherd loses 36 goats & sheep in mishap||At least 36 goats and sheep belonging to Kishori Lal, a shepherd from Majharan village in Baijnath tehsil of Kangra district, died after being run over by a tipper in Dohgi village of Bangana subdivision.In his complaint to the Bangana police, Kishori Lal said he brings his flock to the lower hills every year during winter season. On Friday, his flock reached Kehalvin village in Bangana and around 4.30 am on Saturday, when his flock was moving towards Bangana, a speeding tipper coming from Lathiani side ran over his animals, before fleeing away, he rued.The complainant said he counted the loss at 31 goats and five sheep. Besides, he said about 30 animals were injured in the accident. A case has been registered. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/shepherd-loses-36-goats-sheep-in-mishap-359517
09-01-2022||Our Correspondent||Pensioners honoured in Nurpur||Nurpur, January 8The HP State Pensioners’ Association honoured eight octogenarian pensioners of the area during its annual function at the Bachat Bhawan here on Saturday. The association, founded in 1995, is organising the Samman Samahro for the past many years to honour aged pensioners hailing from lower Kangra areas.Anil Bhardwaj, Nurpur SDM, who presided over the function, felicitated eight pensioners. They were presented with shawls, caps and mementos.Bhardwaj lauded the role of the pensioners’ body in addressing problems of the beneficiaries. SL Gupta, president of the association, briefed the gathering about their ongoing activities. He said that the association had been resolving the issues of the pensioners and was organising its monthly meeting (barring lockdown) every month on second Saturday to redress and take up problems of the pensioners with the authorities concerned.He highlighted the longstanding demands of the pensioners, including conversion of pension allowance of 5, 10 and 15 per cent, respectively, after reaching the age of 65, 70 and 75 years, into pension increment and the enhancement of monthly medical allowance from Rs 400 to Rs 2,000 per month. He also appealed to the state government to seek medical allowance options from pensioners and issue a notification of the amended rules so that pensioners could get the benefit of the implementation of the recommendations of the Sixth Pay Commission.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/pensioners-honoured-in-nurpur-359516
09-01-2022||---||All Himachal educational institutions shut till Jan 26||Shimla, January 8The state government today ordered the immediate closure of all educational institutions, including residential schools, till January 26 in view of the surge in Covid-19 cases.The decision was taken after Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur reviewed the situation, as 728 new cases were reported in the state today. All residential schools will also remain closed during this period.As per the order issued, all government, semi-government and private schools, colleges, universities, academic institutions, engineering, polytechnics, ITIs, and coaching centres would remain closed till January 26.All nursing and medical colleges, however, will remain open but amidst strict Covid protocol.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/all-educational-institutions-shut-till-jan-26-359515
09-01-2022||Our Correspondent||In Baijnath, protest  over power outages||Palampur, January 8Residents of Panjala in Baijnath have held a protest here over the frequent power cuts these days. Commercial as well as domestic consumers say that they are fed up with unannounced power cuts but despite repeated complaints, officials of the HPSEBL are unconcerned.Manoj Kumar Kapoor, owner of a flour mill, says the situation in Panjala has worsened in the past few months because of unannounced power cuts every third day, despite the fact that Himachal is a power surplus state.He is suffering losses everyday but there is none in the HPSEBL to listen to his complaints. He says his monthly power bill is Rs 2 lakh to Rs 3 lakh. Besides, the HPSEBL is also taking minimum energy charges every month. He had also paid Rs 15 lakh to the HPSEBL for the installation of power conductors and transformers in his mill.Rajesh Sharma, a sweets manufacturer, says because of frequent power outages, he had suffered losses in the past one year. He is unable to repay bank loans. He has made a number of complaints to the authorities concerned, but in vain.A senior HPSEBL officer says the main cause of power failure is tripping of 33KV lines because of bad weather. The supply is also interrupted because of periodical testing of power supply lines by the engineering staff.Consumers harassedCommercial as well as domestic consumers say they are fed up with unannounced power cuts but despite repeated complaints, officials of the HPSEBL are unconcerned.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/in-baijnath-protest-over-power-outages-359514
09-01-2022||---||Kasauli residents reel under power cuts amid biting cold||Solan, January 8Residents of Kasauli reeled under severe cold conditions today and their problems compounded due to multiple power cuts for several hours imposed since Friday.Voltage tripping was being experienced for the past several months, but the situation worsened yesterday due to outages. There was a two-hour power cut in Kasauli from 1 pm to 3 pm yesterday, though more outages were witnessed till late night. Also, power supply was disrupted for a few hours till 4 pm and several cuts were witnessed even after supply was restored.Snag to blameOn Friday, a snag had developed in the 132 KV sub-station at Solan, which also caters to Kasauli area. It was rectified on Saturday. —Mohan Singh Guleria, superintending engineer, HP state electricity board LtdResidents of Kasauli, Dharampur, Dagshai as well as nearby rural habitations faced hardships due to repeated disruption in power supply, at a time when the temperature has fallen to as low as 4°C.Mohan Singh Guleria, Superintending Engineer, HP State Electricity Board Limited, said that a snag had dveloped in the 132 KV sub-station at Solan yesterday, which also caters to the Kasauli area. It was rectified today. Meanwhile, elderly people suffered more as they could not use heating gadgets to keep themselves warm.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/kasauli-residents-reel-under-power-cuts-amid-biting-cold-359513
09-01-2022||Ambika Sharma||Month on, drugs sold illegally by Himachal firm yet to be traced||Tribune News ServiceSolan, January 8Officials of the State Narcotics Crime Control Unit (SNCCU) of the state CID are trying to ascertain whether Rs 100 crore narcotic and psychotropic drugs sold by Baddi-based wholesale trader Dinesh Bansal, proprietor of Zannet Pharmaceuticals, were illegally diverted to various states, including Himachal. Bansal was arrested more than a month ago.To ascertain the presence of the aforesaid drugs in the local markets of Himachal, the SNCCU has requested the state Drug Control Administration (DCA) to enquire whether these were supplied to retail and wholesale chemist shops.A herculean task for narco unitDinesh Sharma, DSP, SNCCU, says that DCA officials are enquiring whether the retail and wholesale chemist shops in the state has stocks of three or four narcotic and psychotropic drugs traded by Zannet Pharmaceuticals. The company was largely dealing in narcotic drugs, which were traded through fake sales bills to fake companies in Punjab, Rajasthan and Uttar Pradesh. The SNCCU had seized a large amount of nitrazepam, codeine, etizolam and alpraz from the company’s premises in December last year. It is now trying to find out whether the drugs were diverted illegally to markets in various states.State Drugs Controller Navneet Marwaha says that soon after a request was received from the SNCCU, field officials were directed to trace three or four such drugs in the retail and wholesale outlets in all three zones of the state.The Assistant Drug Controllers of the Mandi Zone comprising Mandi, Kullu, Lahaul and Spiti, Hamirpur and Bilaspur districts; Kangra zone comprising Kangra, Chamba and Una districts; and Sirmaur zone comprising Nahan, Shimla, Kinnaur and Solan districts had directed all 40 drug inspectors to inspect all wholesale and retail shops. There are around 8,000 retail and wholesale chemist shops in the state, including around 800 in the Baddi-Barotiwala-Nalagarh area.Tracing the sales of Zannet Pharmaceuticals has become a Herculean task for the SNCCU officials. Though the financial transactions of the company are also being scanned, the officials are yet to get credible information. Since these drugs are sold on the black market for abuse, it is being assumed that they were sold through nefarious elements in various north Indian states.The SNCCU officials are also yet to trace the co-accused, the owner of Sikar-based wholesale drug firm WB Medicos, who was hand in glove with Dinesh Bansal. He did not appear before the officials in Shimla on December 23.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/month-on-drugs-sold-illegally-by-firm-yet-to-be-traced-359512
09-01-2022||Dharamsala||Bali: Injustice done to piecemeal workers||AICC secretary RS Bali has alleged that the state government had done injustice to piecemeal workers of the HRTC, recruited by his late father GS Bali during the previous Congress government.He alleged that the government had recently announced to bring the piecemeal workers on contract for five years and then regularise their services. The workers had already competed three to four years as daily wagers under a scheme launched by the previous Congress government. Their services as daily wagers should have been counted to regularise their jobs. Now, the piecemeal workers would have to serve the HRTC for about eight years on a temporary basis before their services are regularised, Bali said.He said that not only the workers had to bear enormous financial losses but also they would be under mental stress. Six piecemeal employees had passed away at a very young age while fighting for their rights. Bali said that as per the policy brought by former Transport Minister GS Bali, the services of the piecemeal workers should have been regularised long ago.As per the previous government’s policy, workers having an ITI diploma were to be brought under contractual employment after five years and those without it were to be brought under contract after six years. Those recruited in 2013, 2014 and 2015 were to be brought under contract in budget year 2018-19, 2019-20 and 2020-21, respectively.— TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/bali-injustice-done-to-piecemeal-workers-359511
09-01-2022||Shimla||Film by Himachali director selected for international festival||The film ‘Clouds Messenger’, directed by Rahat Mahajan, who hails from Nurpur in Kangra, has been shortlisted for screening at the International Film Festival Rotterdam (IFFR)-2022.The film features in the festival’s Tiger Competition segment, a platform for emerging film talent. A total of 14 films from across the globe have been shortlisted for the IFFR. The title of the film is inspired by the epic “Meghdoot” by Sanskrit poet Kalidasa. It is a coming-of-age story that puts together contemporary and ancient storytelling.Coming-of-age storyMahajan’s own boarding school experiences were the inspiration and they also provided the film’s principal location with collaboration with the students and staff of his school, the Lawrence School, Sanawar, Kasauli. “My sincere attempt with the film is to marry form with feeling and create a contemporary Indian mythology via weaving the oldest forms of storytelling with the newest one, that is cinema,” says Mahajan, who is the writer, director and co-producer of the film.His first film, ‘Memoirs of an Apple’, won the first prize at the IDPA Film Festival in 2006. He then started working in Bollywood, starting as an assistant director under Vishal Bhardwaj and ultimately spearheaded visual promotions for various films.The film depicts how uniform, morning roll call, order and disciplined life at the prestigious boarding school fail to enthuse Jaivardhan (16) who finds temporary respite in a photography workshop.The photography lessons also introduce Jaivardhan to Tarini. Their meeting proves to fulfil a centuries-old desire, that references a classic Indian tale about tragic lovers and an evil, jealous ruler. As the tale unfolds, the two realised their roles as timeless lovers in a mythical tale, meeting in the present day after several centuries of longing, and leading up to the death of Tarini in this life as well. As the whole universe conspires to break the ancient curse, this tale of eternal love can only end if Jaivardhan travels to the land of death. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/film-by-himachali-director-selected-for-international-festival-359510
09-01-2022||Our Correspondent||Manali SDM, wife test Covid +ve||Kullu, January 8The Manali SDM and his wife, Tehsildar and 22 other persons, including some tourists, have tested positive for Covid in Manali in the past couple of days. The SDM has gone into home isolation after his report came out positive four days ago. The health authorities have confirmed that at present there are 49 active cases in Naggar block.The district administration and the health authorities have launched various awareness campaigns on Covid prevention, but most of the people have a lax attitude toward adopting precautions. Tourists and locals without wearing masks can be seen moving around in the market and tourist hotspots. Now, the risk of Covid surge has increased, which will compound the troubles of the administration.Meanwhile, the Congress has the blamed the organisation of the Winter Carnival at Manali for the surge in Covid cases. Manali Congress president Harichand Sharma said that the danger of pandemic spread increased due to the gathering of a large number of people at the Winter Carnival at Manali.Manali residents want the no mask no service rule to be adhered to strictly.They say that the police should act tough with the rule violators.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/manali-sdm-wife-test-covid-ve-359509
09-01-2022||---||728 Covid cases to fore in Himachal; highest in Kangra||Tribune News ServiceShimla, January 8The surge in Covid cases continued with 728 more persons testing positive for the virus in the state today.As a result, the total number of positive cases rose to 231,587 while the number of active cases increased to 2,811. However, no death due to the virus was reported.The highest number of 219 cases was recorded in Kangra, followed by 116 in Solan, 75 in Hamirpur, 68 in Kullu, 63 in Shimla, 48 in Sirmaur, 36 in Una, 33 in Mandi, 26 in Bilaspur, 25 in Kinnaur, 15 in Chamba and four in Lahaul and Spiti.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/728-cases-to-fore-highest-in-kangra-359508
09-01-2022||Lalit Mohan||Sharp rise in Covid cases casts shadow on tourism in Kangra||Tribune News ServiceDharamsala, January 8Rising Covid cases in the adjoining states of Punjab, Haryana and Delhi has cast a shadow on the tourism industry in Kangra. The industry, which witnessed revival in December and was expecting better business in the next few months, is again facing uncertainty.Sanjeev Gandhi, general secretary of the Smart city Dharamsala Hotel and Restaurant Association, says that in December the hotel and tourism industry witnessed about 50 per cent occupancy. Weekend tourism, which is the lifeline of the Dharamsala industry, had also picked up. Many employees from the corporate sector visited Dharamsala for hiking at weekends.However, as the virus cases started increasing and the adjoining states imposed restrictions, there has been a sudden dip in tourist arrivals. “Now, we hope that the third wave of coronavirus passes quickly or else going will be very tough for the tourism industry,” he says.The hotel industry of Kangra is also sore at the government for not doing enough to promote tourism in the region. District Congress president Ajay Mahajan says that the government has not organised any event to lure tourists to Kangra. While the Winter Carnival was held in Manali, no such event was held in Dharamsala or any other parts of the Kangra region to attract tourists.Earlier, during the previous Congress government, the summer festival was organised in Dharamsala every year in which Bollywood stars were invited to attract tourists. However, the present government has discontinued the practice of hosting the festival, he laments.Sources say that about 1 lakh people are directly or indirectly associated with the tourism industry in Kangra.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/sharp-rise-in-covid-cases-casts-shadow-on-tourism-in-kangra-359507
09-01-2022||---||Expedite land acquisition for road works, CM tells NHAI||Shimla, January 8Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur today directed officers of the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) to expedite the process of land acquisition so that the work on major road projects being executed by them could be started soon.Thakur presided over a meeting on land acquisition for national highways with senior officers of the government and the NHAI. He directed the NHAI officers to set deadlines for the completion of projects being executed by them and work with greater zeal to meet the deadlines.PM to be requested to lay stoneHe said that the government was planning to request the Prime Minister to inaugurate and lay foundation stones of a few NHAI projects around June this year. He also directed the NHAI officers to ensure proper maintenance of national highways and four-lane projects being executed in the state so that commuters do not face inconvenience.Thakur said that at present, Himachal has about 40,000 km roads, but being a hilly state a lot more needs to be done. He added that his government had connected 321 villages with roads as compared to 261 villages by the previous Congress Government.He said that roads were the only mode of transportation in the state and good roads were also important for tourism promotion. He directed the NHAI officers to complete the 85-km Hanogi-Kullu-Manali road being constructed at a cost of Rs 4,540 crore by the end of July to give a boost to tourism development in the area.The Chief Minister said that at present the NHAI was executing the projects of the 104-km Parwanoo-Solan-Kaithlighat-Shimla bypass, 226-km Kiratpur-Nerchowk-Mandi-Kullu-Manali road, 223-km Shimla-Bilaspur-Hamirpur-Mataur road and 17-km Pinjore-Baddi-Nalagarh road. He directed the NHAI officers to ensure that these projects were completed by the deadlines. These projects would save 131 km of travel and 11 hours of travelling time.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/expedite-land-acquisition-for-road-works-cm-tells-nhai-359506
09-01-2022||---||Himachal snowfall: 19 roads blocked in Mandi, 89 transformers out of order||Mandi, January 8As many as 19 roads in Mandi district are blocked due to heavy snowfall in the region. The Public Works Department (PWD) authorities have engaged its workforce and machinery to restore the roads for traffic movement.As many as 18 roads are blocked in Seraj subdivision, the home Assembly constituency of Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur, while one road is blocked in Mandi-1 subdivision. The PWD authorities are struggling to restore the roads.As many as 89 electricity transformers are out of order in different parts of Mandi (80 transformers are out of order in Gohar subdivision, seven in Jogindernagar, and one each in Karsog and Balichowki) while 27 water supply schemes have been disrupted. As a result, a large part of Gohar subdivision is reeling under darkness for the past three days.Deputy Commissioner, Mandi, Arindam Chaudhari has directed officials of the PWD, HP State Electricity Board and the Jal Shakti Department to restore roads, power supply and water supply schemes at the earliest.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/19-roads-blocked-in-mandi-89-transformers-out-of-order-359502
09-01-2022||Bhanu P Lohumi||Snowfall in Shimla, apple growers elated||Tribune News ServiceShimla, January 8Shimla city received the first snowfall of the year today, while its upper areas were covered under a thin layer of snow. Tourists and residents woke up to white surroundings in the morning, but a drizzle in the lower areas of the city washed away snow deposits.Shimla recorded 15 cm of snow while another key tourist resort of Kufri received 7 cm of snow. A large number of tourists made a beeline for Kufri and the Jakhu temple to enjoy snowfall. “We are delighted to see snow Saturday morning. We have planned a trip to Kufri to enjoy snow there as well,” said Harpal, a tourist from Gurugram.Hotel occupancy goes upGondla received 30 cm of snow, Koksar 17 cm, Keylong 10 cm, Hansa 7 cm and Shillaro 5 cm. The local Met office issued a yellow warning of heavy rain in mid and high hills tomorrow and predicted a wet weather in the region till January 12.Meanwhile, 350 roads were blocked in the state (177 in Lahaul and Spiti, 59 in Kinnaur, 44 in Chamba, 38 in Shimla, 19 in Mandi and 13 in Kullu district). About 680 transformers and 81 water schemes were disrupted due to snowfall.“The Theog-Chopal road is closed near Khidki while the Shimla-Rampur and Shimla-Rohru roads have been opened for traffic. As the roads are slippery due to snow, only emergency vehicles are allowed during night,” said Aditya Negi, Deputy Commissioner, Shimla. He added that all roads leading to hospitals in Shimla city were cleared on priority and opened for vehicular movement.Meanwhile, the Shimla administration and the police have advised commuters to be cautious while driving, travel with experienced drivers in snow-bound areas and call 112 and 0177-2812344 in case of an emergency.Apple growers are delighted as snow is considered white manure for their crop. Hoteliers are also happy as snowfall will increase tourist footfall in the coming week. “Due to restrictions in the neighbouring states following a spurt in Covid cases there, the footfall in Shimla was 60 per cent on Friday and it increased to about 80 per cent to 85 per cent after snowfall,” said MK Seth, president of the Tourism Industry Stakeholders Association.Light to moderate rain lashed several parts of the state. Dalhousie was wettest with 66 mm of rain, followed by Kheri 47 mm, Nahan 45 mm, Pachhad 39 mm, Una 37 mm, Naina Devi 32 mm, Rajgarh 31 mm, Kasauli and Renuka 30 mm each, Ghamroor 29 mm, Chamba and Solan 27 mm each, Kahu and Jatton Barrage 25 mm each, Jubbar Hatti 23 mm and Kandaghat 21 mm.Keylong in Lahaul and Spiti district was the coldest at minus 5.1°C, followed by Kalpa and Kufri minus 2°C, Kufri and Shimla 0.2°C.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/snowfall-in-shimla-apple-growers-elated-359499
09-01-2022||---||Shimla receives first snow of the year, brings cheer to tourists||Shimla, January 8Shimla received the first snow of the year on Saturday and upper areas of the town were covered under a thin layer of snow.The tourists and locals woke up to a white morning. However, the snow was washed away by drizzle in the lower areas of the town.Shimla recorded 14.6 cm of snow, followed by Kalpa 10 cm and Kufri 7 cm.“We are delighted to see snow this morning and have planned a trip to Kufri to enjoy snow,” said Harpal, a tourist from Gurugram.As many as 295 roads are blocked in the state which includes 177 in Lahaul and Spiti, 95 in Chamba, 14 in Kullu, four in Kinnaur, three each in Mandi and Shimla. Besides, 168 transformers were disrupted.The Shimla-Rampur road is closed near Narkanda and the Theog-Chopal road is closed near Khidki as heavy snow is continuing at these places, said Deputy Commissioner Aditya Negi, adding that all roads leading to hospitals in Shimla town are open for vehicular movement.The Kufri-Fagu stretch is also open and a large number of tourists have made a beeline to the tourist resort of Kufri. The administration has advised the commuters to be cautious while driving.Apple-growers are also delighted as snow is considered white manure for apple. The hoteliers are happy as snow would increase the tourist inflow to the state capital in the coming week.The local MeT office had issued yellow warning of heavy rain and snow at isolated place for January 8 and 9.Keylong in tribal Lahaul and Spiti district was the coldest at night recording a low of minus 5.1 degrees Celsius followed by Kalpa and Kufri both at minus 2 degrees Celsius.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/snow-in-shimla-cheers-up-locals-and-tourists-359359
