10-01-2022||---||5 of a family killed after vehicle skids off snow-covered road in Shimla district||Shimla, January 10Slippery roads following snowfall led to the death of five persons while two sustained serious injuries in two separate accidents in Shimla district.Five persons of a family, including two women and a child, were killed when the vehicle they were travelling in skid off the road and fell into a gorge near Sarahan at Shangoli village in Kupvi area of Shimla district, today evening.The family hailed from Naura Baura Panchayat of Kupvi. The deceased are yet to be identified.In another accident, a car fell into a gorge near Hasan valley between Dhalli and Kufri in the outskirts of Shimla town due to skidding in which two persons sustained injuries.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/5-of-a-family-killed-after-vehicle-skids-off-snow-covered-road-in-shimla-district-360015
10-01-2022||Dharamsala||Shops in Kangra to close down at 7 pm||Kangra district administration has ordered shops in the district to shut down by 7 pm—a development that comes as the district witnesses a rise in Covid-19 cases.Kangra’s Deputy Commissioner Nipun Jindal said shops must remain closed till 5 pm..  Social and religious gatherings are banned as langars, community kitchens and dhaams.  Restaurants, dhabhas, and eateries can remain open until 10 pm. Pharmacies can remain open for 24 hours.Health authorities in the district have been ordered to conduct random Covid testing on people found without masks.  Kangra district’s positivity rate is currently 7 per cent.The administration imposed limits on other gatherings for academic, sports, entertainment, cultural or political purposes—50 percent of seating capacity but nor more than 100 people for indoor congregations and 300 people for outdoor ones.Such gatherings need the Sub-divisional Magistrate’s permission and must strictly adhere to Covid protocols—masks, social distancing, and santisation mandates.Government offices, public sector units, and local bodies must stick to a five-day workweek until further orders and must remain closed on Saturdays and Sundays.Government offices must function at 50 per cent of their staff strength.The order will not apply to emergency and essential services including health, police, fire, banks, electricity, water and sanitation, public transport, telecom, and excise.All educational institutions—schools, colleges, universities, and coaching centers—will remain closed till January 26. However, nursing and medical colleges will remain open.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/shops-in-kangra-to-close-down-at-7-pm-360006
10-01-2022||Bhanu P Lohumi||Shimla receives heavy snow; normal life affected||Tribune News ServiceShimla, January 10Normal life was crippled as Shimla and adjoining areas received heavy snow, blocking most of the roads in the town.Upper Shimla area was cut off due to heavy snow and supply of essential commodities like bread, milk and newspaper was hit.Also read: Fresh snowfall throws life out of gear, 557 roads blocked in HimachalHigher reaches of Himachal's Sirmaur inaccessible after heavy snowfallUpper Dharamsala areas receive heavy snowfall, lower region gets rainAs many as 858 roads were blocked in the state, including 260 in Shimla, 167 in Lahaul and Spiti, 133 in Chamba, 79 in Mandi, 75 in Kullu, 71 in Kinnaur, 12 in Sirmaur and seven in Solan district and 3,722 transformers and 34 water supply schemes were disrupted.Shimla received 30 cm of snow while Kufri was covered under 20 cm of snow. Bharmour im Chamba and Khadrala in Shimla recorded 61 cm of snow while Gondla and Manali received 40 cm and 37 cm of snow, followed by Keylong at 24 cm.Heavy rain lashed several parts of the state.Road clearance operations are in full swing and roads leading to IGMC, DDU and KNH hospitals besides cart roads have been opened for traffic while other main roads would be cleared of snow by the afternoon, said Deputy Commissioner Aditya Negi.Adequate machinery and manpower have been deployed at Kufri, Narkanda, Kharapathar, Khidki and other places covered under heavy snow to clear the roads, he added.However, vehicular traffic has not been fully restored as slippery roads have made driving risky. The police have advised commuters to avoid driving.Calcium chloride has been sprinkled on IGMC and Richmond stretch as an experiment.A bright sunshine greeted Shimla town which donned a white mantle of snow, providing relief to people from the biting cold. The tourists thronged the Ridge and the Mall Road to enjoy snow.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/shimla-receives-heavy-snow-normal-life-affected-359936
10-01-2022||Shimla||Woman killed in landslide in HP's Chamba||A landslide hit Himachal Pradesh's Chamba district on Monday morning, leaving an elderly woman dead, a senior state disaster management official said.The Chamba District Emergency Operation Centre said the incident took place at Bannu village.The deceased has been identified as 77-year-old Banti Devi. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/woman-killed-in-landslide-in-hps-chamba-359926
10-01-2022||Solan||24 packs of fake desi ghee seized in Parwanoo||The Parwanoo police registered a case of cheating against a local investor who was manufacturing fake desi ghee of Patanjali Ayurvedic Company and marketing it at a lower price.A police team raided the factory last evening and recovered 24 packets of duplicate ghee of one kg each. The owner of the industry has been detained. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/24-packs-of-fake-desi-ghee-seized-359767
10-01-2022||Our Correspondent||Vet ambulances  approved: Minister||Dalhousie, January 9Rural Development, Panchayati Raj and Animal Husbandry Minister Virender Kanwar said the Centre had given the approval to 44 veterinary ambulances which would be made available to the Animal Husbandry Department by March-end.With these vehicles, animals would get the facility of door-to-door treatment.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/vet-ambulances-approved-minister-359764
10-01-2022||Chamba||Jal Shakti Dept opened at Killar||Bharmour MLA Jia Lal Kapoor inaugurated the divisional office of the Jal Shakti Vibhag at Killar through video-conferencing from Chamba.He said in the absence of the divisional office, people were facing problems and had to come to Chamba or Bharmour. CM Jai Ram Thakur had announced a divisional office at Killar and a subdivision office of at Pangi. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/jal-shakti-dept-opened-at-killar-359763
10-01-2022||Kullu||Kullu: Bank customers duped, police recover Rs 26 lakh||The Kullu police have recovered Rs 26.40 lakh from 10 people of Rajasthan and Punjab in the case of fraud of about Rs 1 crore done by a branch manager of Gramin Bank, Dohranala.Kullu SP Gurdev Sharma said a team, led by SI Chaman Thakur, visited Rajasthan and Punjab in the past 20 days. The four-member team raided many places and traced nine persons from Rajasthan and one from Punjab and recovered the amount.Around 25 consumers of the bank had complained that the manager had embezzled their money and lost it in online gambling. The Kullu police had been investigating the matter for the past one and a half months. The manager was arrested on November 2 last year. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/bank-customers-duped-police-recover-rs-26-lakh-359761
10-01-2022||Our Correspondent||Nod to 21-km ropeway for Pangi||Bharmour, January 9The Centre has accorded the approval to a ropeway from Bhanaudi to Killar, the headquarters of Pangi, in Chamba district to be constructed at a cost of Rs 1,000 crore.In an official communiqué here today, Bharmour MLA Jia Lal Kapoor said the total length of the ropeway would be about 21 km.He said the area from Bhanaudi to Killar remained closed for six months in a year due to snowfall.The ropeway would give a boost to tourism and the area will also remain connected even after snowfall, he said..Kapoor said the work on the link roads network in Pangi was in progress under the Pradhan Mantri Gramin Sadak Yojana (PMGSY) with an amount of Rs 65 crore.He also said the work on Killar bus stand was in progress and a target had been set to launch the Killar sewerage scheme by April.The Bharmour MLA said around 2,000 solar lights had been distributed to people in Pangi at a cost of about Rs 9.5 crore.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/nod-to-21-km-ropeway-for-pangi-359760
10-01-2022||Ambika Sharma||Transporters resent special road tax hike||Tribune News ServiceSolan, January 9The All-Himachal Truck Operators Federation has opposed a steep hike of 50 per cent to 66.66 per cent in the tax structure of goods carriers.Federation president Naresh Gupta said, “As against the special road tax (SRT) of Rs 10,000 and Rs 6,000 for vehicles carrying above 120 quintals of weight and those carrying between 30 and 120 quintals, there has been a hike of Rs 5,000 to Rs 4,000”.Over 50% increaseAs against the special road tax of Rs10,000 and Rs6,000 for vehicles carrying above 120 quintals weight and those carrying between 30 and 120 quintals, there has been a hike of Rs5,000 to Rs4,000. — Naresh Gupta, president, all-himachal truck operators federationAbout 50,000 goods vehicles would be affected by the decision. As a large number of goods carriers have to repay bank loans, the decision would hit their revenue, said federation leaders.The vehicles operate in the industrial clusters of Baddi-Barotiwala-Nalagarh, Parwanoo, Darlaghat, Kala Amb, Paonta Sahib, Mehatpur, Sansarpur Terrace, etc.The Union Ministry of Road and Surface Transport has increased gross vehicle weight, including the weight of the vehicles plus its loading capacity by 20 per cent. This includes an increase in the loading capacity to 14.19 per cent and has led to a hike in the SRT.Naresh Gupta, however, said the increase in the SRT should be in sync with the increase in the loading capacity for various vehicles. It should be from 15 to 20 per cent.The state government has also merged the goods tax and token tax and brought it under the ambit of the Transport Department.Earlier, goods tax was charged by the State Taxes and Excise Department (STED). Transporters welcomed the move but they demanded that its implementation should be from April 1 as advance tax had been deposited by some transporters until March 31.They also rued that the process to seek a no-objection certificate from the STED for passing the vehicles for securing fitness certificate was causing hardships. All vehicles had queued up for days before the STED officials and this was incurring monetary losses. The federation has sought relaxation in the NOC up to March 31 for smooth switchover to the new system.They also resented the annual deposition of taxes and vouched for quarterly system prevailing earlier and rebate on depositing taxes in one go for a year.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/transporters-resent-special-road-tax-hike-359758
10-01-2022||KULLU||House gutted in Manali amid snowfall||Two top floors of a four and half-storey house were gutted in Bhajogi of Manali today. The incident occurred around 2.30 pm and flames started to erupt from the fourth floor of the house amid snowfall. An LPG cylinder kept on the top floor burst, blowing away the tin sheets of the roof.Firefighters rushed to the spot and controlled the fire. The upper floors of the house were completely burnt while the ground floors were saved with the help of fire brigade personnel.The cause of the fire is yet to be ascertained. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/house-gutted-in-manali-amid-snowfall-359757
10-01-2022||---||Work on CUHP Jadrangal campus from April: MLA||Dharamsala, January 9Vishal Nehria, local BJP MLA, has said that the construction of the campus of the Central University of Himachal Pradesh (CUHP) in the Jadrangal area of Dharamsala would start in April.The MLA along with PWD officials visited the site proposed by the state government at Jadrangal for the construction of the CUHP campus.Nehria, talking to mediapersons, said the case of forest clearance for land proposed for the campus at Jadrangal would be prepared in next few days and the state government would ensure that it was cleared by the competent authority in a few days. “We are holding meetings every week to review the progress of the allotment of land for the CUHP at Jadrangal,” he said.Uncertainty had cropped up about the land proposed at Jadrangal. A team of geologists from Shimla had raised questions about the stability of the proposed land and the case was referred to the Geological Survey of India (GSI) headquarters in Kolkata. Sources said that geological experts from Kolkata would give the design for the stability of university buildings to be brought up at Jadrangal.Though the land proposed for the campus is under process, the land at Dehra has been transferred in the name of the university. However, the university authorities have not been able to start construction of the campus at Dehra due to a political controversy. Congress leaders from Dharamsala are alleging a conspiracy in shifting of the entire CUHP campus from Jadrangal.The government is not in favour of constructing the CUHP campus at Dehra. It fears that it may have a negative political fallout in the Kangra parliamentary constituency, which has 20 Assembly seats. Dehra subdivision, where the land has been allotted for the CUHP, is part of the Hamirpur parliamentary constituency.Now, Nehria is claiming that the construction of the CUHP campus at Jadrangal will start in April. It remains to be seen if the forestland proposed for the CUHP campus at Jadrangal is transferred in the name of the university before April.Kolkata experts to give design||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/work-on-cuhp-jadrangal-campus-from-april-mla-359755
10-01-2022||This week the minister for transport carried out checks against illegal contract carriage buses in his constituency Jaswan Pragpur. A few contract carriage buses were stopped and fines were imposed. However||Himachal Diary: Selective action?||Vikramaditya at receiving endCongress legislator Vikramaditya Singh is yet again on the firing line with his own party MLAs and Congress workers and leaders lashing out at him for condemning the PM security lapse and demanding an inquiry into the incident. “We too do not support the security lapse as it a very serious matter but how can you speak in BJP’s tone,” said most MLAs. Una MLA Satpal Raizada and Ashraya Sharma, Congress MP candidate in the last elections, openly took him to task on the issue. A majority of them felt that this was not the first time that he had embarrassed the Congress. On several earlier occasions also, he diluted party stand against the BJP. Netizens also took him to task as some doubted his intentions of staying with the Congress while others quipped if his family relations with Amarinder Singh, former Punjab Chief Minister were more important than party stand.Dhawala raises the pitchThe belligerent MLA from Jwalamukhi Ramesh Dhawala has caused a stir in the BJP be demanding that the party high command must clear the tickets for the Assembly polls as early as possible. Dhawala, who failed to secure a berth in the Jai Ram Cabinet, is miffed with his own regime for ignoring him and the undue interference in his constituency by a senior party functionary. Dhawala, who is known for his plain speak, is probably treading cautiously considering the hard time that he is facing at the hands of his bête noire, a powerful party functionary.Power tripping frequent in KasauliTall claims of quality power availability notwithstanding, power tripping has become the order of the day in the Kasauli area. Though power is often dubbed as a major asset by the government to lure investors, the residents, it seems, are not a priority. Reeling under biting cold, especially the elderly have been forced to bear hardships. Will any heads roll for this nonchalant attitude which finds repetition year after year or the common man’s woes will remain too trivial to be addressed.Contributed by Pratibha Chauhan, Lalit Mohan and Ambika Sharma||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/selective-action-359752
10-01-2022||Kullu||Legal literacy camp organised in Kullu||Kullu District Legal Services Authority (DLSA) chairman and Kullu District and Sessions Judge Devender Kumar presided over a legal literacy camp at Sarabai village in Bhuntar subdivision here today. Kullu Chief Judicial Magistrate (CJM) Hoshiyar Singh and Lahaul and Spiti CJM Harmesh Kumar were also present on the occasion. They apprised the masses of free legal aid, domestic violence, rights of women and many other legal rights.The DLSA chairman thanked the people for coming to the legal literacy camp. DLSA secretary Additional Chief Judicial Magistrate Amardeep Singh and Civil Judge Kumari Norma also spoke on the occasion. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/legal-literacy-camp-organised-in-kullu-359748
10-01-2022||Mandi||Streetlights in all Mandi wards soon: Mayor||A meeting of the Mandi Municipal Corporation to review the ongoing development works was held under Mayor Deepali Jaswal.She said it was decided in the meeting that in every ward, for which a tender process had been completed, a Junior Engineer of the corporation would go to the work site and give directions to contractors to start the construction work, as per the estimates.“At the same time, the Junior Engineer by visiting the construction site from time to time will also ensure progress and quality of work and inform the councillor concerned about development works,” she said. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/streetlights-in-all-mandi-wards-soon-mayor-359747
10-01-2022||---||Two killed, 3 hurt in Mandi mishap||Mandi, January 9Two persons were killed and three others injured when the car they were travelling in met with an accident at Dhelu under the Jogindernagar area of Mandi today.The police said at the time of accident, five persons were inside the car. All injured were rushed to the Civil Hospital at Jogindernagar.Bahadur Singh (43) and Gyan Chand (35), both natives of Lakhvan village, succumbed to their injuries at the hospital.Meanwhile, Munshi Ram of Badal village has been referred to the Tanda medical college. Fateh Singh of Nasha and Nand Lal of Lakhvan village are undergoing treatment at the Jogindernagar hospital.After conducting the post-mortem, the bodies were handed over to their families for last rites.The police have registered a case and investigation is underway to ascertain the actual cause of this accident.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/two-killed-3-hurt-in-mandi-mishap-359746
10-01-2022||Dipender Manta||Call to scrap nod for border road projects||Tribune News ServiceMandi, January 9The Lahaul and Spiti district administration has urged the state and Union Government to do away with the process of receiving approval under the Forest Conservation Act (FCA) for construction of the border roads.The approval under the FCA is pending with the Ministry of Environment and Forest for widening of the strategically important Sumdo-Kaza-Gramphu road in the tribal district of Lahaul and Spiti.Approval awaitedThe process of widening the NH 505 is on. A survey has been conducted by the BRO for the purpose. However, the approval under the FCA has not been granted. Neeraj Kumar, DC, Lahaul-SpitiAfter the face-off with China in the Galwan valley of Ladakh region last year, the need to strengthen the transportation and communication facilities along the China border in Indian territory is being felt.The Union Government has entrusted the task of widening the Sumdo-Kaza-Gramphu road to the Border Roads Organisation. The survey has been completed by the BRO for the purpose.It is a 209-km national highway (NH 505), which connects the Manali-Leh highway at Gramphu from the Manali side. From the Kinnaur side, the route of NH 505 starts at the Khab Sangam in Kinnaur district from NH 5. It runs along the Spiti valley through Kinnaur and enters Lahaul and Spiti district at Sumdo.This road crosses through Kunzum pass (at height of 14,931-ft). Due to high altitude, the Kunzum pass receives heavy snow during winter and the Spiti valley remains cut off from Lahaul and Manali for more than six months every year. However, from the Kinnaur side, the Spiti valley remains connected for transportation even during winter.Deputy Commissioner, Lahaul and Spiti, Neeraj Kumar said, “The process of widening the NH 505 is on. A survey has been conducted by the BRO for the purpose. However, approval under the FCA is pending for the project till now.”“The district administration has requested the state government to take up the matter with the Union Government to remove this process of getting approval under the FCA for the construction of border roads, as it has been delaying execution of road projects. There should be a provision for quick permission to construct the border roads on the forest land,” he said.The completion of this road project will reduce the travelling time for military access from Manali to Sumdo, near China border, considerably. Himachal shares its boundary with China in Kinnaur and Lahaul and Spiti districts.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/call-to-scrap-nod-for-border-road-projects-359745
10-01-2022||Lalit Mohan||Most of missing in Himachal's Una found with Facebook friends||Tribune News ServiceDharamsala, January 9In a special drive launched in 2020-21, the Una police had traced 136 missing persons from the district. They included 63 men, 34 women and 39 children. Many of them had been missing for the past many years.Sources here said that the special campaign, launched by the police to trace the missing persons, had brought up interesting trends.Most of the missing adults or teenaged girls had eloped with their social media friends.Many married women had also entered into friendships with men on social media and eloped with them. Recently, the police traced a married woman, who had left her husband and children and settled with her Facebook friend in Kathua of Jammu and Kashmir.In case of men, the reasons behind elopement was psychological distress. Most missing men, who had been traced in different states, had stated that they left their families due to social, psychological or economic distress. In many cases, many men refused to return to their families.In case of children, the police presumed that they were kidnapped, it had been found that many teenagers had eloped with their social media friends.Despite the special drive, the police were yet to trace 98 persons.Superintendent of Police, Una, Arjit Sen said before 2020, there were more than 200 missing persons. Through a special drive, they had managed to bring down the figures.He said the team used cyber tracking besides other methods to trace them. In case of adults, the task of the team was to find the people and connect them to their families. Since they were adults and had left on their own, the police could not bring them back against their wishes. However, in case of children, they were brought back and handed over to the families, he said.Eloped with social media friends||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/most-of-missing-found-with-fb-friends-359744
10-01-2022||---||7th UGC pay scales yet to be given, Himachal teachers agitated||Shimla, January 9Concerned over the non-implementation of the seventh UGC pay scales in the state notified by the University Grants Commission (UGC) in January 2018, the joint action committee (JAC) of the college and university teachers today unanimously resolved that a delegation would meet Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur to apprise him of the issue.Almost all states have already implemented the seventh UGC pay scales, but a stepmotherly treatment is being meted out to state college and university teachers, said committee members.The state government has notified the pay scales for their employees but it has forgotten to do so for the staff of universities and colleges, they rued.University and college teachers held a meeting virtually and it was decided that if the issue is not addressed by the state, they would be forced to adopt coercive measures to show their resentment.It has been almost four years since the UGC notification was issued but it is yet to be implemented in the state, which is a big question mark on the government, the teachers’ associations maintained.There are about 2,950 teachers, including 2,300 teachers in 140 government colleges, 120 in five government aided colleges and 500 in three universities, said official spokespersons of the joint action committee — Himachal Pradesh Government College Teachers’ Association (HPGCTA) general secretary RL Sharma and Himachal Pradesh University Teachers’ Welfare Association (HPUTWA) general secretary Joginder Saklani.There are many issues related with the implementation of the National Education Policy (NEP)-2020, which is an ambitious policy of the government, so the views of stakeholders and their service conditions should also be taken care of by the government for its effective implementation, they added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/7th-ugc-pay-scales-yet-to-be-given-teachers-agitated-359743
10-01-2022||Ravinder Sood||Five Himachal agriculture university hostels made containment zones||Palampur, January 9The district administration today declared five hostels of the HP Agriculture University, Palampur, as containment zones following the detection of 51 Covid-19 cases among students.Palampur SDM Ritesh Guleria said the entire complex of Gauri Hostel, Rukmani Hostel, Parvati Hostel, Dhauladhar Hostel, and Shivalik Hostel had been declared containment zones. Also, the premises of Kailash Bhavan and farmer’s hostel have been declared as buffer zone with immediate effect, after 51 hostel inmates tested positive. They have been kept in isolation in the hostels.The SDM said the step had been taken for the safety and security of staff and students. Section 144 of the CPC had been promulgated in the area to avoid crowding. Essential commodities shops such as those selling milk, fruits, vegetables, medicines, eggs, meat and grocery, would be opened as per the time fixed by the administration. The situation will be reviewed again after two days, Guleria stated.He said despite repeated requests, residents of the town were not following safety guidelines issued by the government. The administration had requested the residents that in case of cough, cold, fever, and chest infection, they must visit the nearest health centre for Covid test. The administration had also initiated large-scale testing, which was also conducted at the local bus stand today. More teams have been kept on stand-by for testing in the town, the SDM said.Regular announcements were being made, requesting the students to stay inside and cooperate with the administration. Students were assured that the administration had made adequate arrangements for the supply of essential goods and helplines numbers had also been given for medical emergencies, he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/five-agriculture-university-hostels-made-containment-zones-359742
10-01-2022||---||5-day week, 50% attendance in Himachal govt offices||Shimla, January 9With the Covid situation turning grim, all government offices will now have a five-day working with 50 per cent attendance while a gathering of not more than 100 persons indoors and 300 outdoors will be allowed.The new restrictions came in view of the fact that the state recorded 728 cases yesterday even though the casualty figures remained low. The new restrictions will come into force with immediate effect as per the orders issued by the Disaster Management Cell of the Revenue Department.The government last night ordered the closure of all educational institutions, including residential schools, till January 26 in view of a surge in Covid cases. The active cases is almost touching 3,000. All nursing and medical colleges have been allowed to remain open but with strict Covid protocol.All offices will remain closed on Saturdays and Sundays. The restrictions will not apply to departments dealing with emergency services like health, police, banks, water, electricity, fire, public transport and telecom.A complete ban has also been imposed on holding of langars and community feasts at places of worship. The district administration have been directed to fix the timings for opening and closing of shops and markets or staggering their schedule so that social-distancing norms are met.The police and local administration have been directed to ensure strict adherence to the norms.Ban on langars at religious places498 new casesAs many as 498 new cases were reported in the state. Besides, one person died of Covid in Sirmaur district.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/5-day-week-50-attendance-in-himachal-govt-offices-359741
10-01-2022||Is a civic issue bothering you? Are you agitated over the lack of concern? Is there something heartening that you feel needs to be highlighted? Or a picture which in your opinion ought to be seen by many||Ranital lake in pitiable shape||The Tribune invites its readers to have their say. Please email at: hpreadersfeedback@tribunemail.com Ranital lake in pitiable shapeThe condition of the Ranital Lake in Nahan is deplorable. The water body, surrounded by a beautiful park and an ancient Lord Shiva temple, is a recreational place for residents in the heart of the town. However, the lake is not maintained at all and its water remains dirty and filthy. The local authorities must not let the lake die. — Rashmi, NahanUnleashed dogs a troubleThe MC should take strict action against people who walk their dogs without keeping them in leash. These dogs often charge at unsuspecting people, giving them a scare for their life. And when one complaints to the owner, he /she has a standard response- 'Oh it doesn't bite, it's trained. The dog just wants to play with you'. They just refuse to understand the fear one feels when a 50-kg dog comes rushing at them, even if it means no harm. — Mamta, Shimla||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/ranital-lake-in-pitiable-shape-359740
10-01-2022||The SFI has opposed the government's decision to shut down educational institutions. Calling it a step against the poor||SFI flays decision to shut institutes||Solan students shineTen students of various schools of Solan district won different positions in the State Science Congress, with the junior level scientific report presentation fetching its team an entry to the national level contest. Children from Aurobindo School, Baddi, Pinegrove School, Pinegrove, MRA DAV School, Shivalik Valley School, Nalagarh, Alpine Public School, Nalagarh, and St Luke's Senior Secondary School, Solan, won positions in various events, like mathematics Olympiad, science activity corner, scientific project report presentation and quiz competition in the junior and senior secondary level.School name to be changedThe government has given permission to rename Government Senior Secondary School, Halai, in district Sirmaur after Shaheed Kalyan Singh. Orders have been issued to undertake the required measures in this regard.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/sfi-flays-decision-to-shut-institutes-359739
10-01-2022||Mandi||Life crippled in Lahaul-Spiti, Kullu, Mandi||Heavy snowfall crippled normal life in Lahaul and Spiti, Mandi and Kullu today. The power and water supply was hit in these districts. Residents of Lahaul and Spiti have been cut off since January 4.Also read: Fresh snowfall throws life out of gear, 557 roads blocked in HimachalHigher reaches of Himachal's Sirmaur inaccessible after heavy snowfallUpper Dharamsala areas receive heavy snowfall, lower region gets rainThe BRO was struggling hard to connect the internal roads in Lahaul and Spiti. As many as 174 roads were blocked in the tribal district, of which 86 were in Lahaul, 45 in Udaipur and 43 in Spiti subdivisions.Residents said it snowed throughout the day today. At Darcha, there was above one foot snow on the ground, while at Koksar, it is almost six feet. At Sissu village, close to Atal Tunnel on the Manali-Leh highway, there is over three feet snow, which disconnected the Lahaul valley from Manali.“The Spiti region is reeling under darkness and it is inaccessible from the Kinnaur side,” said Additional District Magistrate, Kaza, Mohan Dutt Sharma.In Kullu district, the Solang valley, Gulaba, the Rohtang Pass, Bijli Mahadev, the Hamta Pass and the Jalori Pass received heavy snow.Since morning, the higher reaches of Kullu and Mandi districts had witnessed fresh snow, while the lower regions were lashed by incessant rain.As many as 42 roads have been blocked in Mandi district alone, while 20 in Kullu district, including NH 305 at the Jalori Pass and NH-3 at Rohtang Pass. Mandi and Kullu districts were reeling under darkness. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/life-crippled-in-lahaul-spiti-kullu-mandi-359738
10-01-2022||---||Snow in Himachal's Chail cheers up residents||Tribune News ServiceSolan, January 9Chail in Solan district has witnessed snowfall since last night. Residents rejoiced in the snow though hoteliers did not benefit as Covid restrictions have kept the tourists away, said Devinder Verma, president, Chail Hoteliers Association.Also read: Fresh snowfall throws life out of gear, 557 roads blocked in HimachalHigher reaches of Himachal's Sirmaur inaccessible after heavy snowfallUpper Dharamsala areas receive heavy snowfall, lower region gets rainThe power supply was snapped due to snags last night as icy cold winds and rain lashed the area, plunging the town and its precincts into darkness. The staff of the power department were on their feet to restore the supply.Roads leading to Chail, however, remained open as the Public Works Department (PWD) had taken measures in advance. More snow was expected as sky was overcast and rain continued to pour intermittently.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/snow-in-chail-cheers-up-residents-359737
10-01-2022||Ambika Sharma||Shooting stones a threat on Parwanoo-Solan stretch of National Highway||Tribune News ServiceSolan, January 9Traffic on the Parwanoo-Solan section of the national highway (NH)-05 was diverted through a single lane as shooting stones continued to fall on the lane facing the hilly side. Incessant rain in the Parwanoo and Dharampur area for the last three days has triggered landslides, with massive boulders falling on the highway, posing a risk to commuters.Ensuring commuters’ safetyTo ensure safety of commuters travelling on the NH-5, a Rs6-cr pilot project to provide protection to the slopes has been approved for the toll plaza at Sanwara. The work has been halted in view of the inclement weather and would be completed as soon as the weather is conducive. Suresh Sharma, Project director, National Highway Authority of IndiaSeveral accidents have been reported at such sites where huge boulders damaged vehicles and caused grave injuries to the travellers. Since the hilly slope was excavated for several feet vertically while four-laning this highway, lack of protection has enhanced its vulnerability. “Shooting stones are posing risk to the commuters and as a precaution, traffic was channeled through the lane facing the valley today,” informed Balwinder Singh, project in-charge, GR Infraprojects Limited, which four-laned the highway.He added that 25 vulnerable locations have been identified on the 39-kms stretch of Parwanoo-Chambaghat in Solan, where protection work was required on the slopes.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/shooting-stones-a-threat-on-national-highway-359736
10-01-2022||---||Snow, rain cause landslips in Chamba, restoration works on||Our CorrespondentChamba, January 9Heavy snowfall and rain in Chamba district for the past three days have affected normal life. The upper areas of the district are covered with a white blanket of snow.Also read: Higher reaches of Himachal's Sirmaur inaccessible after heavy snowfallUpper Dharamsala areas receive heavy snowfall, lower region gets rainSnow in Himachal's Chail cheers up residentsAt the same time, torrential rains in low-lying areas have triggered landslides at various locations. Due to this, the link of Bharmour, Tissa and Salooni subdivisions has been cut off from the district headquarters.Many interior roads of the district are closed for vehicular movement. The movement of vehicles also came to a standstill due to a landslide near the Mehla bridge on the Chamba-Bharmour road.However, the restoration work has also been started on a war footing, removing the debris on these routes, including the Khajjiar hill resort, Jot and Bharmour to resume traffic.Deputy Commissioner DC Rana issued an alert urging people not to come out of their homes during snowfall and rain as a precaution.Meanwhile, in an advisory, the police appealed to the people that due to rain, debris and stones were falling from hills on various routes. In such a situation, they were advised to stay home.However, farmers and orchardists are upbeat, saying that snowfall was a boon for their upcoming crops of apple and wheat.Besides, heavy snowfall on mountain ranges of the northwestern Himalayas is a deposit for the summer to generate maximum electricity on the power projects operating on the Ravi river and for irrigation in the plains, say experts.Bharmour cut-offTorrential rains in low-lying areas triggered landslides at various locations, cutting off Bharmour, Tissa and Salooni subdivisions from the district headquarters.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/snow-rain-cause-landslips-in-chamba-restoration-works-on-359735
10-01-2022||Solan||Higher reaches of Himachal's Sirmaur inaccessible after heavy snowfall||A major part of the trans-Giri area in Sirmaur district, comprising Haripurdhar and Nohradhar, was cut-off from the rest of the region as heavy snow lashed the area last night. The area also plunged into darkness as the inclement weather disrupted electricity infrastructure.Also read: Fresh snowfall throws life out of gear, 557 roads blocked in HimachalUpper Dharamsala areas receive heavy snowfall, lower region gets rainSnow in Himachal's Chail cheers up residentsNearly one feet snow was registered in the twin peaks which compelled the residents to stay indoors. Power supply was disrupted since last evening which aggravated the hardships of the residents.Roads like Nahan-Haripurdhar, Solan-Menas, Chopal- Haripurdhar, Gatadhar-Sangrah, etc., were blocked among several other link roads. Landslides were also visible on the Kafota-Shillai road.Two roads were blocked in the Sangrah sub-division while the Rajgarh and Nahan sub-divisions faced severe power disruptions till this morning.The district administration pressed earth excavation machines to restore the blocked roads and provide relief to the residents while work to restore power was also underway.Superintending Engineer, Power Department, Sirmaur, Mandeep Singh, informed that power in key towns like Nohradhar, Haripurdhar and Panog was restored today. As many as 75 transformers were disrupted and work was underway to restore them in the precincts of these towns.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/higher-reaches-of-sirmaur-inaccessible-359734
10-01-2022||Dharamsala||Upper Dharamsala areas receive heavy snowfall, lower region gets rain||Upper Dharamsala areas, such as Naddi and Dharamkot, received snowfall in the early morning hours today. As Naddi wore a white mantle, locals from Dharamsala and tourists made a beeline for the town to enjoy the first snowfall of the season.Also read: Fresh snowfall throws life out of gear, 557 roads blocked in HimachalHigher reaches of Himachal's Sirmaur inaccessible after heavy snowfallSnow in Himachal's Chail cheers up residentsRevellers were seen playing with snow. Besides Naddi, most of the mountain tops overlooking Kangra valley also wore a white blanket. The first snowfall of the year in upper areas brought down temperatures too. Generally, snowfall in the region used to draw tourists from the adjoining areas of Punjab and Jammu and Kashmir to Dharamsala. However, due to rising Covid cases, very few tourists came to the region to enjoy snow.As the upper areas of Dharamsala received snow, the lower areas have been receiving consistent heavy rainfall for the past about three days. The rains are being considered good for the wheat crop especially as about 80 per cent farming in the region is rainfed.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/upper-dharamsala-areas-wear-white-mantle-lower-region-gets-rain-359733
10-01-2022||Bhanu P Lohumi||Fresh snowfall throws life out of gear, 557 roads blocked in Himachal||Tribune News ServiceShimla, January 9Most areas in higher and middle hills experienced another spell of moderate snowfall today. Normal life was crippled during the morning hours in Shimla as slippery conditions made driving hazardous and supply of essential commodities to the upper region of the city was delayed.Also read: Higher reaches of Himachal's Sirmaur inaccessible after heavy snowfallUpper Dharamsala areas receive heavy snowfall, lower region gets rainSnow in Himachal's Chail cheers up residentsAs many as 557 roads were blocked, including 209 in Shimla, 181 in Lahaul and Spiti, 46 in Chamba, 42 in Mandi, 38 in Kinnaur, 31 in Kullu and 10 in Sirmaur district. Also, operation of 1,757 transformers and 124 water supply schemes was disrupted.The residents of Shimla woke up to a fascinating view of snow and elated tourists thronged to The Ridge and Mall Road to enjoy. They were seen playing with snow balls and clicking photographs. The occupancy in hotels went up to about 80 per cent. However, hoteliers beyond Victory Tunnel rued that business was hit as the traffic was diverted from Tutikandi on the bypass road.All main roads in the Shimla town have been cleared for traffic, besides Shimla-Rohru and Shimla-Rampur roads and Kufri-Fagu stretch, said Deputy Commissioner Aditya Negi, who supervised road clearing operations at several stretches.The work was in full swing and efforts were afoot to open all roads but slippery conditions prevailed due to intermittent snowfall and commuters were advised to avoid travelling at night unless necessary, he added.Kharapathar police rescued Covid-19 sampling teams, besides others, from Pattidhank after a distress call was received on emergency number 112 this afternoon that some vehicles were stranded due to heavy snowfall. Some tourists were also rescued from the Kalyani Helipad.Khadrala and Kufri received 58 cm of snow, Shillaroo 42 cm, Dalhousie 30 cm, Sangla 28 cm, Kalpa 27 cm, Kothi 20 cm, Chopal, Shimla, Hansa and Bharmaur 15 cm each and Manali 14 cm. The local MeT office has predicted rain and snow at few and isolated places in middle and higher hills on January 10 and 11 and dry weather from January 12 onwards.Naina Devi was the wettest with 58 mm rainfall, followed by Rajgarh 52 mm, Chamba 49 mm, Berthin 46 mm, Dharamsala and Sangrah 45 mm each, Gaggal and Nadaun 44 mm each, Renuka and Solan 43 mm each, Nahan and Una 42 mm each. Keylong was the coldest at night with a minimum temperature of -5°C while Una recorded a maximum temperature at 13.6°C.Covid team rescued||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/fresh-snowfall-throws-life-out-of-gear-557-roads-blocked-in-himachal-359731
10-01-2022||Tribune Web DeskChandigarh||Himachal CM, Governor have fun in the snow. Photos inside||Himachal Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur and Governor Rajendra Arlekar are making the most of the snowfall in Shimla's Raj Bhawan complex on Sunday.The CM was accompanied by his Cabinet colleagues, Suresh Bhardwaj, Ramlal Markanda, and Rajiv Saizal, state BJP President Suresh Kashyap.He said the administration was fully prepared and active in dealing with heavy snowfall to provide relief to the local people from the hardships caused by snow and elaborate arrangements have been made to maintain the basic facilities like road, electricity, water, among others.Here are some photos. (Photo credit: Tribune photo) --- Story with IANS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/himachal-cm-governor-have-fun-in-the-snow-photos-inside-359665
10-01-2022||Shimla||Heavy snow cuts off Upper Shimla areas from town; over 400 roads blocked||The upper ranges of the Himalayas continued to witness heavy snow on Sunday.Heavy snowfall in Shimla promoted the district administration to dispatch manpower and machinery to clear the roads and restore traffic.Upper Shimla was cut off because of the latest spell of snow.Kufri recorded 55 cm of snow—the highest in the state—followed by Dalhousie (30 cm), Kalpa (21.6 cm), Shimla (15 cm), and Manali (2 cm).Some 434 roads are blocked, including 174 in Lahaul and Spiti, 104 in Chamba, 62 in Kinnaur, 36 in Shimla, 35 in Mandi, 20 in Kullu, two in Sirmaur, and one in Solan district, authorities said. Over 1700 transformers have been disrupted, authorities said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/heavy-snow-cuts-of-upper-shimla-areas-from-town-359620
