11-01-2022||Shimla||Record 1,550 fresh Covid cases in HP, active ones 5,476||Himachal Pradesh on Tuesday recorded 1,550 fresh Covid-19 cases, raising the tally of active cases to 5,476 from 4,186 and a total number of infections till date to 2,34,835, a Health Department official said.The Covid toll, however, remained pegged at 3,867 as no death was reported on Tuesday, he added.The highest number of 325 new cases was found in Kangra, followed by 287 in Solan, 270 in Hamirpur, 153 in Shimla, 148 in Mandi, 117 in Una, 89 in Kullu, 73 in Bilaspur, 47 in Sirmaur, 27 in Chamba, 12 in Kinnaur and two in Lahaul-Spiti, he added.The number of active Covid-19 cases in the state climbed to 5,476 from 4,186 on Monday, the official said.Besides, 258 more patients recovered from the viral disease.With this, the total number of recoveries in Himachal Pradesh stands at 2,25,462, he said. — PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/record-1-550-fresh-covid-cases-in-hp-active-ones-5-476-360369
11-01-2022||AT the Lakkar Bazaar bus stand||Garbage trouble at Lakkar Bazaar bus stand||— Surender, DhalliClear colony roads tooThe main roads of the city have been cleared of snow promptly by the MC and the PWD, but the minor roads leading to residential colonies have still not been cleared. Even though there is not much snow on these roads, it's difficult to drive. The authorities should clear these roads too. — Pallavi, ShimlaIs a civic issue bothering you? Are you agitated over the lack of concern? Is there something heartening that you feel needs to be highlighted? Or a picture which in your opinion ought to be seen by many, and not just you?The Tribune invites readers to have their say. Please email at: hpreadersfeedback@tribunemail.com||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/garbage-trouble-at-lakkar-bazaar-bus-stand-360224
11-01-2022||The SFI has urged the HPU administration to keep the central library open with 50 per cent occupancy. The request has come following the government's decision to shut down all educational institutions till January 26. In its request||SFI wants HPU library opened||Keep hostels, library open: NSUIThe NSUI, HPU, has also opposed the decision to shut down the library. Members said while the library was being closed on the pretext of Covid, the university was illegally conducting interviews for teaching faculty. The students' body demanded that the library should be kept open with 50 per cent occupancy and the interviews should be stopped. The NSUI demanded that hostels should also be kept open.Dates extended for scholarshipsThe Ministry of Minority Affairs has extended the timeline for three scholarships schemes on the National Scholarship Portal. The last date for verification of pre-matric scholarship scheme has been extended to January 15. For post matric and merit-cum-means based scholarship schemes, the last date for online application is January 15. The dates for verification have been fixed as January 31 and February 15.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/sfi-wants-library-opened-360223
11-01-2022||Shimla||Woman dies in landslide in Chamba district||Banti Devi (77) was killed in a landslide at Bannu village in Chamba this morning, said a senior state disaster management official.—PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/woman-dies-in-landslide-in-chamba-district-360222
11-01-2022||Una||Super-50 scheme award for Una administration||The Una district administration has been selected for a silver medal in the SKOCH Order of Merit Awards for its Super-50 scheme, aimed at providing coaching to meritorious students of government schools for the NEET and JEE entrance examinations.DC Raghav Sharma on Thursday participated in a virtual meeting of the SKOCH organisation from the district secretariat. Later, in a press note issued here, he said the Super-50 scheme was launched in 2019 and each year, 50 meritorious students were selected by the district administration for free two-year coaching.Sharma said the services of experienced faculty were ensured and the cost of training was borne by the Una Zila Parishad and Chintpurni Temple Trust. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/super-50-scheme-award-for-una-administration-360221
11-01-2022||---||Pinegrove School director Capt AJ Singh awarded||Tribune News ServiceSolan, January 10The Indian Public Schools’ Conference (IPSC) conferred the prestigious Gaur Hari Singhania Lifetime Achievement Award on Capt AJ Singh, executive director, Pinegrove School, at the 82nd IPSC Principals’ Conclave held at The Doon School, Dehradun, today.The award was given in the presence of Union Minister of Education, Skill Development and Entrepreneurship, Dharmendra Pradhan, online during the closing ceremony of the conclave.Capt AJ Singh is the founding headmaster and director of Pinegrove School, director, St Soldier’s School, Panchkula, chairperson of the IPSC and also a member of the Board of Governors of the CBSE.His exemplary work in nurturing Pinegrove School from the scratch and elevating it to a prestigious position among the IPSC schools fetched him the honour. His contributions to the IPSC as well as introduce innovations in the field of education were also recognised.Capt AJ Singh was in the Army, who took premature retirement to pursue the noble profession of education. He has contributed to the Executive Committee of the IPSC for about a decade and worked selflessly in conducting IPSC/SGFI tournaments, organising conclaves, reframing the IPSC bylaws, restarting IPSC teacher training seminars and IPSC student conclaves.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/pinegrove-school-director-awarded-360220
11-01-2022||---||Teachers flay Himachal government for pay anomalies||Shimla, January 10The Himachal Government Teachers Union (Virender Chauhan faction) has criticised the state government for “destroying the pay structure, resulting in anomalies in pay scales and causing financial losses to employees”. It vowed to fight injustice along with other employees unions.“The government has notified the new pay scales and given three options to employees. I appeal to all employees and teachers not to exercise any option till injustice done in the past is not undone and Punjab scales and allowances are given without any disparity,” said Virender Chauhan, president of the union, talking to mediapersons here.“The government had implemented the Fifth Punjab Pay Commission in 2009, which were partially modified from October 1, 2012. The grade pay of several categories of employees was raised but in Himachal, the then Finance Secretary evolved new parameters and deviated from the Punjab pattern. The employees and teachers are paying the cost of highhandedness of the government in implementing the revised Sixth pay Commission scales being given after 16 years,” he alleged.He claimed that the government unnecessarily imposed the condition of two years for the implementation of the revised pay scales for newly recruited and promoted employees. He said that the 4-9-14 time scale rules of 2009 were also distorted and as a consequence, the employees were bound to suffer permanent financial loss.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/teachers-flay-himachal-government-for-pay-anomalies-360219
11-01-2022||---||ADB-funded project for Kutlehar farmers: Agriculture Minister Virender Kanwar||Our CorrespondentUNA, JANUARY 10The HP Sub-Tropical Horticulture, Irrigation and Value Addition (HP SHIVA) project will be implemented on 5,000 kanals of land in Kutlehar where farmers have either stopped cultivating due to wild animals or where horticulture is not in practice. This was disclosed by Agriculture Minister Virender Kanwar while addressing a seminar for farmers on micro irrigation at Mandli village of the segment.A sum of Rs 1,000 crores, funded by the Asian Development Bank, will be spent in the first phase of the project, which will begin in 2023 and culminate in 2029. The project aims at giving a boost to the plantation of sub-tropical fruits like orange, litchi, pomegranate and guava in lower regions of the state.Drip irrigation and electric wire fencing will be provided to the farmers.Kanwar said the Horticulture Department has formed 17 clusters covering an area of 170 hectare for ultrahigh density plantation of selected fruits in four districts of the state initially, which will later be extended to seven districts. He said the farmers of upper Himachal have good income from fruits like apple.The minister said two front line demonstration plots have been set up under the project in Bangana for cultivation techniques of pomegranate and guava. Expressing the need to save water, he said a water harvesting structure to irrigate 5000 kanals of land is ready in Samoor village, while another check dam in Chaploh village was also complete.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/adb-funded-project-for-kutlehar-farmers-kanwar-360218
11-01-2022||Pratibha Chauhan||Curbs force BJP, Congtess to put off programmes in Himachal||Tribune News ServiceShimla, January 10With restrictions being imposed on holding of public functions, the Congress and the BJP have decided to put on hold all their campaigns and programmes and go virtual in the run-up to the Assembly poll, due in November-December this year.With a steep surge in Covid cases, 1,200 cases in a single day today, both parties are in a fix as they have been compelled to put off their programmes and rely on virtual mode. The decision is not out of choice, but due to the restrictions comes amid sharp criticism by the public, especially on social media about the reckless behaviour of “netas”.There has been a sharp reaction among people who feel that while the restrictions are imposed on their routine works, politicians have been given a free hand.The fact that both parties are forced to put on hold their activities is giving anxious moments to leaders as they are worried about the election preparedness. The BJP, which suffered a major setback in the four bypolls, has chalked out an exhaustive programme to make up for the lost ground.Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur had admitted that the bypoll defeat was a timely alert for the BJP and the party would regain the lost ground. The BJP used PM Narendra Modi’s rally at Mandi to bolster the morale of its workers.The Congress has also decided to hold its programmes virtually till the Covid situation does not come under control. AICC general secretary KC Venugopal chaired a virtual meeting to review the Jan Jagran, a membership drive and training programmes. Congress Working Committee member Rajeev Shukla also joined the meeting virtually, besides Himachal Preadesh Congress Committee president Kuldeep Rathore and all District Congress Committee chiefs.The government yesterday imposed restrictions on all public gatherings. A cap of 100 has been imposed on the gatherings being held indoors and 300 on outdoor venues. What people think||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/curbs-force-bjp-cong-to-put-off-programmes-in-himachal-360217
11-01-2022||Dipender Manta||Districts close to water bodies were Covid hotspots: IIT-Mandi study||Tribune News ServiceMandi, January 10Having studied the Covid-19 outbreak along with other pandemics in India, the IIT-Mandi has recommended extra precaution at places with huge international arrivals and in North India during winter months.During research, they have identified states with a high probability of being the first hotspots for the spread of Covid-19. According to the study conducted in 640 districts from April 1 to December 25, 2020, the hotspots of the pandemic in India have been states with high international migration and districts located close to large water bodies.The research was led by Dr Sarita Azad, Associate Professor, School of Basic Science, IIT-Mandi, and co-authored by Neeraj Poonia, research scholar, IIT-Mandi.“We observed that cooler climate conditions may have contributed to the rise in Covid cases in districts that are close to water bodies,” says Dr Sarita Azad.“Even though the transmission rate stabilised across the country during the winter, northern areas witnessed the highest increase in the number of Covid cases. We have also identified states and districts where the government should have a more tailored and targeted approach in case of a future outbreak,” she adds.The researchers observed that states such as Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu, Gujarat, Rajasthan, Karnataka, Delhi, Uttar Pradesh and Andhra Pradesh were the hotspots of the pandemic in India. In almost all these states, international migration was a significant factor, they say. For this reason, the researchers recommended that in cases of pandemic outbreak in future, travel to and from these states should be carefully monitored.The researchers reviewed the past pandemics and found common patterns between Spanish Flu (1918-1919), H1N1 (2014-2015), Swine Flu (2009- 2010) and Covid-19 (2019-2021) outbreaks. It shows water bodies have a strong influence on a region’s microclimate in terms of temperature and humidity, which is commonly referred to as the lake effect, they say.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/districts-close-to-water-bodies-were-covid-hotspots-study-360216
11-01-2022||Shimla||Campaign for booster dose launched in Himachal Pradesh||With the campaign to vaccinate the 15-18 age group is inching towards completion, the state today launched the drive to vaccinate the 60 plus individuals, healthcare and frontline workers with the third dose. “Snowfall in some parts and rainfall elsewhere have affected the vaccination drive a little. But it’s just a minor hiccup and we will soon pick up pace,” said NHM Director Hemraj Bairwa.“Overall, we have crossed the 70 per cent target as far as the 15-18 age group is concerned. As many as 8,000 teenagers were vaccinated today,” he said.Bairwa hopes the state will achieve the target in the time-frame,“weather is clear now, so I think we will complete the drive by January 15”.In Kinnaur, Lahaul-Spiti and higher reaches of Kullu district, the drive has been postponed by a couple of days. “We have already vaccinated around 90 per cent schoolchildren. Going by the weather forecast, we had already vaccinated children in hard areas and will vaccinate the remaining 10 per cent in a couple of days,” said Dr Sonam Negi, Chief Medical Officer, Kinnaur.—TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/campaign-for-booster-dose-launched-in-himachal-pradesh-360215
11-01-2022||---||1,200 new Covid cases, two deaths in Himachal Pradesh||Shimla, January 10As many as 1,200 Covid cases were reported in the state today, taking the tally to 233,285. Besides, two persons died of the virus in Solan and Shimla.The highest number of 363 cases was recorded in Kangra, followed by 159 in Solan, 137 in Hamirpur, 106 in Mandi, 100 in Sirmaur, 90 in Bilaspur, 81 in Una, 75 in Shimla, 50 in Kullu, 25 in Chamba, 13 in Kinnaur and one in Lahaul and Spiti. The number of active cases rose to 4,186.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/1-200-new-covid-cases-two-deaths-in-himachal-pradesh-360214
11-01-2022||---||Strengthen home isolation network: Himachal CM||Shimla, January 10Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur today laid stress on strengthening home isolation network for Covid-19 patients and providing immediate medical aid to those under treatment at their homes.Thakur presided over a meeting to review the Covid-19 situation in the state with Deputy Commissioners, SPs and Chief Medical Officers virtually from here today. “There are total 3,076 active cases in the state. A sharp rise has been reported in the last one week,” he said.He said at present 98 per cent patients were in home isolation. Thakur directed the officers to prepare for home isolation and sensitise the patients regarding do’s and don’ts during their isolation and taking medicines as per prescription of doctors.The kit for the patients would have Chawanprash, ayush kada, hand sanitizer and face masks. “Proper arrangements should be made for isolation at homes and it should be ensured that family members do not get infected,” he said.Thakur stressed the need for better coordination between allopathy and Ayush departments for the benefit of Covid patients. He said that vaccination campaign of 15 to 18 age group would be completed by January 12 and directed that proper arrangements of transportation of patients in home isolation must be made if their condition deteriorates.He also directed the Deputy Commissioners to ensure early restoration of roads and power and drinking water supply, particularly in snow-bound areas. “Thrust must be laid on restoration of all major roads and the roads leading to health institutions. It must also be ensured that power supply, particularly in health institutions, be maintained at the earliest,” he said.Restore roads to health centres: Thakur to DCsThrust must be laid on restoration of all major roads and the roads leading to health institutions. It must also be ensured that power supply, particularly in health institutions, be maintained at the earliest. Drinking water supply must also be restored immediately to facilitate people. — Jai Ram Thakur, Chief Minister||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/strengthen-home-isolation-network-himachal-cm-360210
11-01-2022||---||Shops in Kangra to close at 7 pm||Dharamsala, January 10Shops in Kangra district will close at 7 pm. Kangra DC Nipun Jindal issued the orders under the Disaster Management Act due to rising Covid cases in the district.Jindal said a special campaign would be launched and people found moving without masks would be tested randomly for corona infection. The positivity rate of the infection in Kangra was above 7 per cent due to which the measures had been taken, he said.In the orders, it had also been stated that eateries and dhabas would be allowed to open till 10 pm while pharma shops would remain open 24X7.On Sundays, all shops would remain closed. A ban has been imposed on langars/community kitchens or dhaams.All social and religious gatherings would be prohibited and other gatherings or congregations like academic, sports, entertainment, cultural or political would be permitted with 50 per cent capacity, subject to the maximum of 100 persons in indoor or built-up or covered areas. In open spaces, the capacity would be the maximum 300 persons.Prior information of such gatherings would be given to the SDM. Organisers had been directed to observe social distancing, use of mask and other Covid protocols, the order stated.All government departments, public sector units or local bodies would remain closed on Saturdays and Sundays and there would be five-day week. The government offices would operate with 50 per cent capacity and controlling officers would issue duty roster of employees accordingly. The offices, dealing with emergency or essential services, including health, police, fire, banks, electricity, water and sanitation, public transport, telecom and excise, would not be covered. The DC also ordered the closure of all educational institutes till January 26.Mandis to shut at 6.30 pm||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/shops-in-kangra-to-close-at-7-pm-360200
11-01-2022||Ambika Sharma||Renuka dam oustees reluctant to submit 'landless' affidavit||Tribune News ServiceSolan, January 10Renukaji Dam oustees are opposing the decision of the Revenue Department to seek affidavits from them declaring that they are landless after surrendering their land for the project.The Rs 6,946 crore dam, the foundation stone of which was laid by the Prime Minister recently, is slated to solve the decades-old drinking water woes of Delhi and the National Capital Region.As the Revenue Department is preparing the list of project affected families, affidavits are being sought from the oustees to work out their compensation and rehabilitation. Once the list of affected families is finalised, it will be notified and the dam authorities will allot land, houses or both, as per the norms, to the affected families.However, the oustees contend that it is not possible for them to provide such an affidavit. The acquisition of land for the construction of the dam may have rendered them landless but they can inherit family land. Furnishing such an affidavit can land them in legal wrangles.They have also raised doubts at the social impact assessment carried out for their relief and rehabilitation, terming it contrary to their interests. The Shri Renuka Dam Jan Sangharsh Samiti alleges that the organisation, which was entrusted the task, merely did a cursory exercise. “The organisation failed to make a true assessment of the problems which the residents of submerged areas will face, creating discrepancies in the subsequent relief and rehabilitation policy chalked out by the dam management,” says Yogender Kapila, samiti president.Kapila contends that the amount of grant worked out is very less and it should be amended. Those who have tilled land in the area, which will be submerged, should be granted the status of fully displaced families without seeking any affidavit.The oustees also demand that those who have been tilling land of other people for generations should also be considered being displaced.Deputy Commissioner, Sirmaur, RK Gautam, says, “It has come to my notice that the dam oustees are showing reluctance to submit affidavits and we are trying to sort out of the matter. The Revenue Department staff has been directed to expedite the work to identify project affected families for their early relief and rehabilitation”.  List of affected families being preparedTrying to sort out matter: DCIt has come to my notice that the dam oustees are showing reluctance to submit affidavits and we are trying to sort out of the matter. The Revenue Department staff has been directed to expedite the work to identify project affected families for their early relief and rehabilitation. — RK Gautam, Deputy Commissioner, Sirmaur||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/renuka-dam-oustees-reluctant-to-submit-landless-affidavit-360198
11-01-2022||Dipender Manta||Erratic power supply irks Manali hoteliers||Tribune News ServiceMandi, January 10The problem of erratic power supply and low voltage during the winter has become a cause for concern for hoteliers in Manali. They are unable to provide adequate facilities to tourists during their stay, hotel owners complain.Low voltage and erratic power supply in Manali town are causing inconvenience to tourists who are finding it difficult to heat water for bathing and use room heaters, especially during the night, they say.The hoteliers say they have met officials of the Himachal Pradesh State Electricity Board (HPSEB) several times and apprised them of the problem to find a suitable solution.Hem Raj Sharma, owner of a hotel in Manali, says, “Low voltage is a big issue here. The problem is persisting for the past several years. During the winter, power supply becomes erratic, affecting the tourism industry”.Anup Thakur, president of the Paryatan Vikas Mandal, Kullu-Manali, says, “We have apprised officials of the issue and demanded strengthening of the power supply structure. We urge the district administration as well as the Electricity Department to ensure regular power supply because the issue is adversely impacting tourist footfall”.Sanjay Kaushal, Superintendent Engineer of the HPSEB, Kullu, says, “We have increased the power load from 26 MV to 30 MV in Manali this year before the onset of the winter. During Christmas and New Year, the load consumption went up to 34 MV”.“For next year, we are planning to enhance the load capacity to find a permanent solution to the problem,” he adds.DisappointingIt is disappointing that we are facing problems during winters, which is the peak tourist season. The state government talks about promoting the tourism sector but it has failed to develop even the basic infrastructure. — Hem Raj Sharma, hotel owner||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/erratic-power-supply-irks-manali-hoteliers-360196
11-01-2022||---||Tourists have close shave in Paonta Sahib subdivision||Solan, January 10A few tourists had a narrow escape when their vehicle skids off the Sataun-Renukaji road and was stuck in the muck along the Tikker khud in Paonta Sahib subdivision of Sirmaur district last evening. They jumped out of the vehicle to save themselves.Owing to incessant rain in the area, a section of the road near the Tikker khud has turned swampy. The tourists, who were coming from Renukaji, did not know about the condition of the road.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/tourists-have-close-shave-360194
11-01-2022||---||Traffic blocked on Chandigarh-Manali NH after landslip||Tribune News ServiceMandi, January 10The Chandigarh-Manali highway has been blocked for traffic movement at 7 Mile, a few km from Mandi bus stand in Mandi district this evening due to a massive landslide. As a result, traffic movement has come to a halt on this road.The landslip resulted in a long traffic jam on both sides of the road. The police have diverted the traffic to Kullu from Mandi via Grahan, Sivabadar and Pandoh for light vehicles. From Manali to Chandigarh, the traffic has been diverted from Pandoh through Gohar and Dadour chowk.Mandi Superintendent of Police (SP) Shalini Agnihotri said that police force has been deployed in the area to clear the traffic jam from both sides of the road.The National Highways Authority of India has engaged its workforce and machinery in clearing the debris from the highway but darkness was proving a major hindrance in the restoration work.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/traffic-blocked-on-chandigarh-manali-nh-after-landslip-360188
11-01-2022||KULLU||Snow in Kullu after 2 years||Kullu town experienced the first snowfall of the season early this morning. It was a mild snowfall, which got washed away with the accompanying rain. This was the town’s first snowfall in two years and was a welcome delight for residents as well as tourists.The Kullu valley was in the grip of cold wave following rain in the lower region and snow on the higher reaches. The peaks of Mattikochhar, Mount Nag, Phungni Devi and Bijli Mahadev also experienced snowfall. There was around one foot of snow in the Manali town. Many bus routes were affected due to the snowfall, inconveniencing commuters. The vehicular traffic on various link roads was also disrupted. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/snow-in-kullu-after-2-years-360184
11-01-2022||Dipender Manta||Avalanche in Lahaul-Spiti,  rural areas reel under darkness||Tribune News ServiceMandi, January 10An avalanche was triggered near Rashel village in tribal district Lahaul and Spiti today. However, no loss of life and property was reported in the incident.Lahaul and Spiti DC Neeraj Kumar has issued an advisory for the general public to stay indoors and refrain from venturing out in snow-bound areas in the next few days. The DC said there was an avalanche threat in the Lahaul valley over the next few days also, so people were advised to strictly follow the instructions given by the administration. As the weather improved, the Border Roads Organisation (BRO) engaged its workforce and machinery on the Manali-Leh highway to restore it for traffic movement between Manali and Keylong.In Mandi district, the Public Works Department (PWD) was struggling to restore rural roads in Seraj valley, Gohar, Karsog and Sundernagar subdivisions. Of the total 91 rural roads, the PWD restored 40 roads for traffic movement today, while 51 roads are still blocked.Due to heavy snowfall, around 975 electricity transformers were disrupted in Mandi, of which 454 transformers have been restored. The Himachal Pradesh State Electricity Board (HPSEB) is working to restore power supply in rural areas, which are reeling under darkness from the past few days.In Mandi district, around 100 water supply schemes were also disrupted, which could not be restored. As a result, people in Thunag, Padhar, Karsog and Mandi rural areas faced acute shortage of water. Power, water supply still affected||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/avalanche-in-lahaul-spiti-rural-areas-reel-under-darkness-360180
11-01-2022||Dalhousie||Snowfall turns Dalhousie white||Dalhousie town received the first heavy snowfall of the season last evening. The snowfall was recorded from one to four feet at varying locations, including Dalhousie town, Lakkarmandi, Kalatop and Dainkund, official reports arriving here today stated.Consequently, stakeholders of the tourism industry as well as visitors were elated. The visitors enjoyed playing with the snow at Gandhi Chowk and Subhash Chowk on Monday. —OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/dalhousie-turns-white-360177
11-01-2022||---||Water freezes in Lahaul||Tribune News ServiceMandi, January 10Residents of the Lahaul valley are facing water crisis. After the snowfall, the temperature has plummeted below 0°C and water has frozen. They are blaming the Jal Shakti Department, which has failed to find a solution for it. Every year, they face same problem.Vikram Katoch, a resident, said the Har Ghar Nal scheme had no benefit for the residents as water had frozen during winter seasons. “The reason behind the frozen water is that the pipes are laid in open. There is a need to install pipelines underground,” he added.“After the opening of Atal Tunnel, the tourism sector is getting momentum. There is need to find a solution to this problem earlier to ensure the regular water supply round the year,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/water-freezes-in-lahaul-360176
11-01-2022||Shimla||Water supply in Shimla takes a hit||A day after the first major snowfall of the winters, water supply in Shimla took a hit due to significant drop in the pumping of water from the Giri Scheme. The water supply from this scheme dropped to 9.26 million litre, which brought down the overall supply to 37.51 million litres.“We could not pump the required amount of water from Giri due to increased silt and turbidity. Also, the electricity department had some issues with one of their feeders so that also affected the pumping,” said Anil Jaswal, AGM, Shimla Jal Prabandhan Nigam Limited. “However, the problems have been resolved and we are hopeful of resuming normal supply from tomorrow. We don’t see any further interruption by the snowfall,” said Jaswal.Normally, the silt and turbidity problem doesn’t occur in winters. However, the problem is persisting with the Giri scheme because of the development work in the catchment area and the dumping of muck in the river. In view of this problem, the SJPNL is installing an additional tube settler at the Giri Scheme.“The civil work for installing the tube settler is almost complete and we will have it operational by February end. Once installed, our operation efficiency will increase,” he said. The AGM also said that the issue of voltage, which was preventing the company from pumping water at peak hours, was also getting better.Jaswal said that they were looking to pump 45 million litre per day for the city. “Once we reach that mark, we can provide adequate supply to the city,” he said. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/water-supply-in-shimla-takes-a-hit-360174
11-01-2022||Bhanu P Lohumi||Shimla, nearby areas get heavy snow, supply of essentials hit||Tribune News ServiceShimla, January 10State capital Shimla and its adjoining areas received another spell of heavy snowfall on Monday, closing most of the roads in the city. The upper Shimla area was cut off and supply of essential commodities, such as bread, milk, and newspapers, was delayed.Slippery roads following the snowfall led to the death of five persons while two sustained serious injuries in two separate accidents in the district. Five persons of a family, including two women and a child, were killed when their vehicle skidded off the road and fell into a gorge near Sarahan at Shangoli village in Kupvi area this evening. The family hailed from Naura Baura Panchayat of Kupvi. In another accident, a car fell into a gorge near Hasan valley between Dhalli and Kufri and two persons sustained injuries. Office-goers also had a tough time walking to their work places as it was difficult to drive on the snow-covered roads.As many as 774 roads were blocked in the state, including 261 in Shimla, 170 in Lahaul and Spiti, 139 in Kullu, 85 in Chamba, 60 in Kinnaur, 51 in Mandi and eight in Sirmaur district while 2,360 transformers and 249 water supply schemes were disrupted.A large number of tourists thronged the city, which received 30 cm of snow, and frequent traffic jams were witnessed on the Cart Road as several vehicles skidded off the roads. Earlier in the morning, bright sunshine greeted the residents, providing some relief from the biting cold.The occupancy in hotels went up to 90 per cent and the tourists were advised to get advance booking done to avoid inconvenience and fleecing. The visitors made a beeline to the Ridge and The Mall Road to enjoy the snow.Bharmour in Chamba and Khadrala in Shimla recorded 61 cm of snow while Kufri was covered under 50 cm of fresh snow. Kothi and Shillaroo received 45 cm snowfall each, Gondla 40 cm, Manali 39 cm, Janjehli 31 cm, Nichar 30 cm, Keylong 24 cm and Kalpa 23.2 cm.Road clearance operations were in full swing and the ones leading to IGMC, DDU and KNH hospitals, besides Cart Road, were opened on priority in the morning. The other main roads were through for traffic by the afternoon, said Deputy Commissioner Aditya Negi.Calcium chloride had been sprinkled on the IGMC and Richmond stretch as an experiment. Adequate machinery and manpower had been deployed at Kufri, Narkanda, Kharapathar, Khidki and other places covered under heavy snow to clear the roads, he added.Vehicular traffic had not been fully restored as slippery roads had made driving risky. The police have advised commuters to avoid driving unless necessary as the roads were slippery.Meanwhile, heavy rainfall lashed several parts of the state and Kandaghat received 80 mm, Dharampur and Solan recorded 73 mm and 71 mm of rain, followed by Pachhad 70 mm, Kasauli, Sangrah and Jubbarhatti 60 mm, Sundernagar and Bhuntar 50 mm, Nahan 47 mm and Mandi 43 mm.Snow clearing on||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/shimla-nearby-areas-get-heavy-snow-supply-of-essentials-hit-360171
11-01-2022||Mandi||Landslide in Mandi blocks Chandigarh-Manali highway||A massive landslide at 7mile in Mandi district brought traffic flow on the Chandigarh-Manali Highway to a standstill on Monday evening.  Long queues were reported on either side of the roadblock a few kilometres from the Mandi bus stand. This is usually a busy highway, especially in the tourist season.Mandi Superintendent of Police Shalini Agnihotri said police have been deployed on both sides of the roadblock to help clear the roads faster.  Police have instituted traffic diversions to easy traffic—light vehicles going from Mandi to Kullu have been diverted through Grahan, Sivabadar and Pandoh and those going from Manali to Chandigarh can go through Pandoh, Gohar and Dadour Chowk.Meanwhile, the National Highway Authority of India is trying to clear the debris away to restore traffic, officials said, but work is slower than expected because of the growing winter darkness.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/landslide-at-7mile-in-mandi-blocks-chandigarh-manali-highway-360012
