12-01-2022||Dharamsala||Shortage of urea fertiliser in Kangra district: Congress||Farmers in Kangra district are facing a shortage of urea fertiliser. Congress workers, led by HPCC general secretary Kewal Singh Pathania, submitted a memorandum to the district administration, alleging that the framers of Kangra district were not getting urea fertiliser.Pathania said that the demand for the fertiliser had increased in Kangra after recent rainfall. Farmers, who grow wheat, were requisitioning it from societies that used to supply it to them. However, at most of the places, the farmers were not getting the required amount of fertiliser, he added.Pathania alleged, “Last year also the farmers of the district had faced a shortage of urea fertiliser but the government did nothing to help them. We have written to the Chief Minister to help the farmers get fertiliser or Congress workers will hold a protest”. —||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/shortage-of-urea-fertiliser-congress-360522
12-01-2022||Chamba||Congress: Govt delayed installing CT scan at Chamba hospital||Chamba District Congress Committee (DCC) president Neeraj Nayar has alleged that the state government took two years to install the much-awaited CT scan and MRI machine at Pandit Jawaharlal Nehru Government Medical College and Hospital here.In a statement issued here, he said radiologists and radiographer technician staff must be arranged at the earliest so that Chamba residents could avail the benefit of this facility. Nayar said the government had shown insensitivity towards providing necessary equipment for health facilities in a remote district like Chamba from the very beginning. In January 2020, an MoU of Rs 10.34 crore to set up a CT scan and an MRI machine had been signed between the NHPC’s Chamera project and the medical college.This money was arranged by former CM Virbhadra Singh. He added that due to the lax attitude of the incumbent government and its step-motherly treatment to Chamba, it took more than four years for this much-awaited scheme to take off. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/cong-govt-delayed-installing-ct-scan-at-chamba-hospital-360521
12-01-2022||---||Himachal CM opens new OPD building at IGMC-Shimla||Shimla, January 11Himachal is now far better equipped to deal with the Covid pandemic than before. There are 41 oxygen plants at present as compared to only two during the first wave of the pandemic, said Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur here today after inaugurating the new OPD building of the Indira Gandhi Medical College (IGMC) and Hospital.He said the OPD building had been constructed at a cost Rs 103.18 crore, and the state government had provided Rs 73 crore for it. “Originally, the building was to be constructed at a cost of Rs 46 crore but the government revised the estimate to Rs 103 crore so that a much bigger building could be constructed to meet future needs.”He said that a trauma centre was also being constructed at a cost of Rs 40 crore and a parking at a cost of Rs 32 crore under the Smart City Project. He added that keeping in view the rush of patients in the hospital, the need for better infrastructure was felt.“There were only 50 ventilators in the state at the time of the first wave and now there are more than 1,000 ventilators. This has been made possible due to the focused approach of the state government,” he claimed.Thakur said that the government not only created better infrastructure but also ensured that poor people get free treatment in case of serious illness. He added that over Rs 200 crore had been spent under the Mukhya Mantri HIMCARE and Rs 3,000 per month was being provided under the Mukhya Mantri Sahara Yojana to families having a chronically ill patient.Health Minister Rajiv Saizal said that the new OPD would go a long way in providing better health services to patients, particularly during the pandemic.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/cm-opens-new-opd-building-at-igmc-360520
12-01-2022||---||Work on Shiller-Pathia link road shoddy, allege villagers||Solan, January 11Shoddy construction of the Shiller-Pathia link road, which connects Shiller to Sanawar in Kasauli tehsil, is causing hardships to the residents.Carelessness allegedComplaints have been received from villagers that slush has made the road inaccessible. However, no work has been done during the rains, though other tasks will be undertaken to ensure timely completion. — A PWD officialIncessant rain over the past few days have aggravated their plight as the slushy road has become inaccessible. A large number of vehicles got stuck on the road as only muck has been used for filling it at various points. The rains not only eroded the filling but an earth excavation machine put in place by the contractor to level the road failed to provide any relief to the residents.Some people have had a harrowing experience while travelling on this road. “A number of vehicles got stuck in the slush on Monday evening as the constant downpour made it difficult for the commuters to drive,” rued Ajay, a local resident.The 3.5-km road, the work on which had begun in October 2020, was supposed to be completed within 18 months. However, it has not been completed. Also, the reckless construction has impacted several trees, which have become vulnerable and would give way if it rains any further, he added.Range Forest Officer Sandeepna Gupta said the block forest officer had been directed to visit the site and take stock of the damage caused to the trees.Meanwhile, locals rued that various works, like laying the culvert, were being done in the midst of the rainy season and the construction material lacked quality. Also, the earmarked dumping site was not being utilised and muck was being disposed on government land in violation of the norms, they rued.An official of the PWD, when contacted, said complaints had been received from the local villagers about slush having made the road inaccessible. However, he denied that any work was being executed during the rains, though other tasks would be undertaken to ensure its timely completion.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/work-on-shiller-pathia-link-road-shoddy-allege-villagers-360518
12-01-2022||Shimla||PM Modi's 'security breach': Himachal BJP's signature drive against Punjab govt||The breach in the security of Prime Minister Narendra Modi will not be tolerated, said Urban Development Minister Suresh Bhardwaj, who started a signature campaign against the Punjab Government at The Ridge here today. He dubbed the security lapse as a conspiracy.“The Prime Minister’s security should be the top priority of all state governments. The Prime Minister was to announce development projects worth Rs 42,000 crore for Punjab on January 5 during his Firozepur visit when his carcade was stopped by protesters. We should not forget that former Prime Minister Indira Gandhi was also killed due to a security lapse,” he said.The signature campaign was organised in all 74 party mandals throughout the state, on the directions of BJP national president JP Nadda and state BJP president Suresh Kashyap.Earlier, on January 9, Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur and state party president Suresh Kashyap had submitted a memorandum to the President of India through Governor Rajendra Vishwanath Arlekar, demanding President’s rule in Punjab for maintaining law and order.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/bjps-signature-drive-against-punjab-govt-360517
12-01-2022||Dipender Manta||Spiti residents demand power station at Tabo village in Kaza subdivision||Mandi, January 11Residents of the Spiti region are urging the state government to set up a 66-KV substation at Tabo village in Kaza subdivision to ensure regular power supply in Spiti during the winter season.Currently, the power supply is being provided from Kinnaur district, which is almost 300 km away. In case of any fault in the power lines because of heavy snowfall, the power supply to Spiti gets disrupted for days together. Due to the long distance, it takes days for the HP State Electricity Board (HPSEB) authorities to restore power supply to the tribal region.Sonam Targe, a resident of Spiti, said “Every year during winters, residents face power supply disruptions for days at a stretch because of heavy snowfall in Kinnaur district. So, we request the state government to set up a 66-KV substation at Tabo village, which will play a crucial role in ensuring regular power supply to Spiti in the harsh winters. Last year, we had submitted a memorandum in this regard to the Governor during his visit to Spiti.”A 2-MW power project, known as Rongtong, is present in the region, but it remains dysfunctional most of the time. The project authorities must be asked to keep it functional all the time, he added.“We request the state government to set up a solar power project in Spiti to meet the demand of power supply in this region,’’ another resident, Tenzin Takpa, said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/spiti-residents-demand-power-station-at-tabo-360515
12-01-2022||Lalit Mohan||Work on PGI satellite centre in Una to begin in April, says DC||Dharamsala, January 11The construction of the PGI satellite centre in Una district is expected to start in April. The PGI, Chandigarh, is in the process of finalising the drawings of the building of the satellite centre, said DC Raghav Sharma while talking to The Tribune.Doubt loomsThe PGI has sent a few doctors but no specialist has been deputed in Una. I fear that like other projects, the satellite centre may also remain on paper — Mukesh Agnihotri, CLP LeaderSharma said as soon as the drawings of the building were approved, the PGI would issue tenders for the project. The construction was likely to start in April this year, he added.The satellite centre is one of the biggest projects to come up in Una district. It will involve an investment of Rs 450 crore—Rs 283 crore to be spent on buildings, and the remaining on equipment for the centre.The project was announced before the 2019 parliamentary elections. However, not much progress was witnessed on it in the past three years. The state government was to provide land, water and electricity for the project.Sharma said that the government had built most the infrastructure for the project. “We are waiting for the final design of the building from the PGI to make the final preparations for providing dedicated water and power supply for the satellite centre,” he added.At present, the centre comprising a few doctors from the PGI is operating from the IPH rest house in Una. The Deputy Commissioner said that it would soon be shifted to the Regional Hospital, Una.Meanwhile, CLP leader Mukesh Agnihotri said that it had been three years since the project was announced but till date not even a brick had been laid. “The PGI has sent a few doctors but no specialist has been deputed in Una. I fear that just like other projects such as 70 national highways announced for the state, the satellite centre may also remain on paper. The government should push for its construction and not wait for the elections to lay the foundation stone,” he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/work-on-pgi-satellite-centre-in-una-to-begin-in-april-says-dc-360514
12-01-2022||Dipender Manta||Hemp footwear gifted by PM Modi to Kashi temple priests made in Kullu||Mandi, January 11It is on the request of Prime Minister Narendra Modi that 50 pairs of hemp footwear, prepared in Kullu, have been sent for priests of the Kashi Vishwanath Temple.Wearable in templePM Modi had evinced keen interest in these slippers, made of hemp fibre, during his visit to Mandi on December 27. The hemp fibre slippers called “pule” in Kullu are considered pure for wearing inside temples. These were at display at a stall set up by a government department in the Paddal ground. Modi had desired that these be sent for priests of the Kashi Vishwanath temple as during winters, they may face difficulties in performing puja bare feet.Deputy Commissioner, Kullu, Ashutosh Garg said, “On the demand of the PM, we sent 50 slippers to the PMO a few days ago. These slippers were prepared by local residents, who have expertise in preparing ropes, bags and slippers of hemp.The Himachal Government is contemplating allowing controlled cultivation of cannabis, not just for the pharmaceutical industry but also to popularise its other byproducts like hemp ropes, slippers and garments, which are in huge demand, especially abroad. However, a decision has been pending even though locals are demanding that allowing the controlled cannabis cultivation will help them economically.On the temple premises, the use of shoes, made of leather and rubber, is prohibited but the slippers made of hemp are considered pious and priests can wear these inside temple.In parts of Himachal such as Kullu and Mandi, hemp is traditionally been used for making footwear, ropes, mats and its seeds used in local cuisine.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/hemp-footwear-gifted-by-pm-to-kashi-temple-priests-made-in-kullu-360513
12-01-2022||Pratibha Chauhan||Post-bypoll, Kuldeep Rathore's stature grows in Himachal Congress||Shimla, January 11Even as several Congress leaders are lobbying for the top party post, HPCC president Kuldeep Rathore has asserted his position amid changing equations in the Congress after the death of former Chief Minister Virbhadra Singh.Focus on pollAs long as I am the party president, only people with clean image and winnability will be considered for the party ticket in the Assembly poll. — Kuldeep Rathore, HPCC PresidentCritics silenced, for nowThe plans of several leaders, seeking a change in the leadership, have been put on hold after the Congress win in the four byelections. All those who were anticipating a change in the party leadership have been silenced, at least for a time being.Though some legislators recently met the central party leadership seeking one of the two posts of the Congress Legislature Party (CLP) or HPCC for Nadaun MLA Sukhwinder Singh Sukhu, the party high command does not seem to be in a mood to make any immediate changes.Rathore, whose position has certainly been strengthened after the bypoll, does not enjoy the support of majority MLAs. He had been dependent on the Virbhadra faction for support till the former CM was alive.However, the equations within the Congress have changed now with many changing their loyalties. While CLP leader Mukesh Agnihotri is keen to take on the duties of the PCC chief, Sukhu is eyeing the post of CLP leader.While Sukhu has been able to garner the support of about a dozen legislators, many of whom were in the Virbhadra camp, a change in the immediate future could be ruled out. CWC Rajeev Shukla as well as AICC secretary Sanjay Dutt seek the opinion of legislators as well as senior leaders from time to time.However, what goes to his credit is that he has not tried to cultivate parallel leaders in various Assembly segments which will certainly help the Congress.“I have tried my level best to strengthen the party but my focus has been the 22 Assembly segments where the Congress lost in the previous poll,” says Rathore.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/post-bypoll-rathores-stature-grows-in-cong-360511
12-01-2022||---||Manali-Keylong road restored||Mandi, January 11The Border Roads Organisation (BRO) today accelerated the work to restore the Manali-Leh highway between Manali and Keyong after weather became favourable.The BRO pressed its machinery and workforce from Sissu toward Keylong and from Keylong toward Sissu to restore the roads up to the north portal of the Atal Tunnel from the Lahaul side and toward the south portal of the tunnel from the Manali side.As per BRO sources, the road between Manali and the Solang valley was restored to the movement of 4x4 vehicles. The snow clearance operation was underway toward the South portal of the Atal Tunnel ahead of the Solang valley.Keylong SDM Priya Nagta said, “The BRO has restored the road between Tandi and Keylong. The snow clearance operation is underway between Sissu and Tandi to restore the road between Manali and Keylong. It is expected that if weather remains favourable, the BRO will open the road from the district headquarters of Keylong to the north portal of the Atal Tunnel within two days”.She said that a snow clearance operation was underway between Keylong and Udaipur, which was ealier blocked following heavy snowfall in Lahaul and Spiti for the past few days.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/manali-keylong-road-restored-360507
12-01-2022||---||Snow, rainfall cheer up apple growers in Himachal Pradesh||Shimla, January 11Heavy snowfall in mid and higher hills and widespread rain in lower hills of the state have compensated for the rain deficit and made farmers and apple growers happy. Farmers in many districts were worried that lower areas had received insufficient rainfall. The state received 18 per cent deficient rain during the post-monsoon season from October 1 to December 31 and 60 per cent deficient rain in December.Low temperatures prevailing in the state will help in providing desired chilling hours (500 to 1,300) at 7°C for apple crop while snow will act as white manure for quality production, especially in Shimla, Kinnaur and Kullu districts.Narinder Dhiman, Director Agriculture, said “Rain will control the spread of yellow rust, besides facilitating the spray of urea. The average yield of wheat grown over 3.40 lakh hectares is 20 quintals per hectare and we are hopeful that timely rainfall will help us achieve the production target of 6.72 lakh metric tonnes,” he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/snow-rainfall-cheer-up-apple-growers-360506
12-01-2022||Bhanu P Lohumi||Icy winds lash Shimla, mid-hills||Shimla, January 11The piercing cold wave sweeping most parts of Himachal continued unabated today even as the region got relief from rain and snowfall. The sky remained overcast and icy winds lashed Shimla and other mid and higher hills.The high altitude tribal areas reeled under biting cold with the mercury staying 12 to 20 degrees below the freezing point. The temperature dropped by a few notches and Keylong in Lahaul and Spiti district experienced the coldest night of the season at minus 15.4°C.As many as 495 roads (167 in Lahaul and Spiti, 133 in Shimla, 69 in Kullu, 37 in Mandi, 29 in Kinnaur, three in Sirmaur and two in Solan) remained closed, and 974 transformers were out of order while 177 water supply schemes were badly affected.Meanwhile, snowfall occurred at isolated places. Kalpa recorded 14 cm of snow, followed by Sangla 7 cm, Pooh 6 cm, Morang 5 cm, Gondla 4 cm and Manali 2 cm. Kalpa in Kinnaur district recorded a low of minus 8°C, Manali minus 3.8°C, Kufri minus 3°C, Solan 0.8°C, Sundernagar 1.7°C, Palampur 2°C and Shimla 2.2°C.Thick ground frost occurred at most places in mid and higher hills, causing slippery conditions. Complaints of erratic power and water supply were received from remote and interior areas of Shimla district. Thick fog engulfed the town along river banks and reservoirs in lower hills during morning hours, disrupting vehicular traffic. The MeT office has predicted a dry weather in the regionfor next four days and foggy conditions to continue for two more days.“All efforts are being made to normalise the situation and restoration work is being done on a war footing. Traffic has been restored on the Shimla-Rampur and Shimla-Rohru roads and private buses are plying on the upper Shimla routes,” said Aditya Negi, Deputy Commissioner.“A majority of roads have been opened in the city but commuters are advised to be cautious while driving,” the DC added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/icy-winds-lash-shimla-mid-hills-360505
12-01-2022||Abhinav Vashisht||Tourist footfall dips in Manali as Covid cases rise||KULLU, JANUARY 11The tourist footfall in Manali has nosedived in the past couple of days due to the rise in coronavirus cases.Charge domestic power rates, hoteliers urge govtThe government should take amicable decisions for the survival of those associated with the tourism industry. Various taxes, levies and fees should be waived for the Covid period and the domestic rate of electricity should be charged from hoteliers. — Budhi Prakash Thakur, President of Himachal Pradesh travel agent associationAbout 2,000 to 3,000 vehicles from other states were registered daily in the green tax barrier at the entrance of Manali from December 20 to January 6. The number has come down to just 300 in two days after Covid restrictions were imposed on January 6. Various other states have also imposed restrictions, which also had an adverse impact on the arrival of tourists.The occupancy in hotels was about 50 per cent. While 15,299 vehicles from other states had arrived at Manali in January 2020, 38,060 vehicles entered in January 2021 after the opening of the Atal Tunnel.Usually, due to snowfall, tourism business in Kullu-Manali booms. Beneficiaries of the tourism industry were hopeful that they might recover some losses sufferred in the past two years but the increase in the cases of Covid played a spoilsport.Hotelier Parmanand said many bookings for January had been cancelled after the resurgence of Covid. The bookings had fallen by around 90 per cent and there were no further queries, which is a major cause for concern. “Manali tourism has again come on the back foot,” he added.Various hotspots of the district witnessed a large number of tourists during Christmas and New Year. However, following a sudden surge in Covid cases and the imposition of various restrictions, the crowd has suddenly vanished.Himachal Pradesh Travel Agent Association president Budhi Prakash Thakur said the government should take amicable decisions for the survival of those associated with the tourism industry. Various taxes, levies and fees should be waived for the Covid period and the domestic rate of electricity should be charged from hoteliers.He said other charges like pollution, licence fee, liquor licence and registration should be waived. He added that House Tax on hotels charged by the Municipal Committee should be reduced.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/tourist-footfall-dips-in-manali-360504
12-01-2022||Ambika Sharma||Ropeway cleared, soon reach Kasauli from Jabli in 20 mins||Tribune News ServiceSolan, January 11With an about 4-km ropeway connecting Jabli with Kasauli in Solan district of Himachal getting an all-clear from the authorities concerned, tourists as well as locals can hope of traversing between the two points in a mere 20 minutes.The eco-friendly transportation mode will have the twin advantage of easing traffic snarls as well as saving fuel to promote cleaner environment. It will also provide speedier access to Kasauli, the world-famous town frequented by 5,000 to 7,500 tourists on a daily basis during peak season. The project is to be completed at a cost of Rs 206 crore.The Ropeways and Rapid Transport System Development Corporation (RTDC), which is executing the project, has prepared a preliminary report and tenders are likely to be floated shortly. Corporation managing director Ajay Sharma said the project had a tentative span of 3.88 km. “Its lower terminal point will be situated at Mohal Bhat ka Gaon at Jabli on the Parwanoo-Dharampur section of National Highway-5. The upper terminal point has been identified near the Public Works Department Circuit House in Kasauli,” he said.The ropeway will be developed on CEN standards, which are the European norms for standardisation and recommended by the Niti Aayog. The Mono Cable Gondola technology having an indicative design capacity to carry 1,100 persons per hour will be put into use.To be executed under the design-build-finance-operate and transfer mode by the RTDC, the corporation will ensure ample parking for ropeway riders. “Besides decongesting Kasauli roads, this eco-friendly mode of transportation will boost employment opportunities and give a push to tourism,” said Sharma. He said though an indicative alignment had been worked out in the preliminary report, the number of trees to be axed would be known only after the promoter was finalised. “Changes, if any, suggested by the promoter to ensure the project’s viability will be carried out,” he said.With no financial implication on the government, the project will be completed under the public–private partnership (PPP) mode. “The concession period will be 40 years. The government land will be provided free of cost to the promoter firm, which will pay annual concession fee to the government,” the MD said.Eco-friendly option||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/ropeway-cleared-soon-reach-kasauli-from-jabli-in-20-mins-360485
