27-10-2021||Editorials||Covaxin approvals delay: Be transparent||The World Health Organization (WHO) this week, once again held off on deciding whether to grant Bharat Biotech’s Covaxin an emergency use license. The United Nations (UN) body has sought more clarifications and said its experts will meet again on November 3. This comes at a time when India’s independent drug regulator too has taken unusually long over a separate approval concerning the same vaccine. The Drugs Controller General of India (DCGI) is yet to accept the Subject Expert Committee’s (SEC) recommendations that the vaccine be given to children aged 2 and above. Both decisions are significant for India: The WHO approval could determine if people who have taken the shot are covered under vaccine mandates in other countries; and the DCGI decision will determine if the country could begin vaccinating children soon.
27-10-2021||Editorials||Delhi air pollution: Heed the warnings||Rain and favourable wind might have delayed the onset of winter pollution in Delhi, but air quality forecasts for the coming days suggest that the Capital is headed towards an air emergency, this newspaper reported on Wednesday. This expected change in the air quality has been attributed to two reasons: A spike in stubble fires and Diwali (November 4). The Indian Institute of Tropical Meteorology’s forecast said the contribution of stubble smoke in Delhi’s PM 2.5 (particulate matter with diameter less than 2.5 micrometres) levels is expected to reach around 65% by the first week of November. The current contribution of farm fires to Delhi’s PM is about 40%. The delayed withdrawal of monsoon from north India and the heavy post-monsoon showers in October resulted in the slow start to the stubble burning season this year. However, this does not indicate that there will be a drop in the cumulative numbers of fires in Punjab and Haryana, where farmers carry out the practice to clear their fields quickly for the next cropping season.
