28-10-2021||Editorials||Pegasus: Truth must come out||The Supreme Court of India has appointed a committee to investigate if any Indian agency procured and used the highly sophisticated spyware, Pegasus, to target citizens. Headed by a retired judge, the panel comprises members with domain knowledge of cybersecurity and intelligence. The Chief Justice of India-led bench has said that its objective was to balance the rights of the citizens and the powers of the State, which cannot be allowed “a free pass” by merely citing national security. To this end, the terms of reference and the choice of the experts are sound. The issue pertains to fundamental principles of the rule of law as well as security in an age when technology has complicated both domains.
28-10-2021||Editorials||Tripura: Act firmly against the trouble-makers||North Tripura district authorities imposed Section 144 in the Panisagar and Dharmanagar subdivisions on Wednesday to maintain “peace and harmony” after clashes erupted during a Vishwa Hindu Parishad (VHP) rally on Tuesday. The VHP rally was organised to protest the recent violence against Hindus in Bangladesh. The decision to impose Section 144 was taken after a mosque was allegedly vandalised and several shops, reportedly owned by Muslims, were set ablaze in the district. On Thursday, the police said that fake social media accounts are being used to spread fake news and communally sensitive rumours, and action will be taken against those spreading rumours.The National Crime Records Bureau’s Crime in India 2020 report puts Tripura on top of all states in the Northeast in terms of political conflicts with 0.5% crimes per lakh people in the category against 0.1% in Arunachal Pradesh and zero cases of political conflict in the other states. Tripura, however, fared well in terms of communal and religious violence. The administration needs to keep a strict vigil so that this record remains untarnished.What happened in Bangladesh — temple vandalism and torching of Hindu homes — is unacceptable. But extremism of one kind must not lead to extremism of another kind. It is the duty of the Bangladesh government to crack down on violence and terror, and to its credit, the Sheikh Hasina government is taking strong steps to contain such violence. Similarly, the Tripura government must crack down on any elements disturbing communal peace because this majority versus minority violence can lead to an unending cycle of attacks and counter-attacks.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/editorials/tripura-act-firmly-against-the-troublemakers-101635418425997.html
