18-03-2020||News||How Kerala is battling Covid-19, writes Pinarayi Vijayan||The world is in the grip of a global pandemic that is marked by both, lethality and an astounding spread, across continents. The emergence of Covid-19 is uncharted territory that demands our focused attention and a calibrated response that is also globally collaborative. The growth and enormity of the crisis can only be understood in the context of an increasingly globalised world, which is more connected now than at any other point in human history. People, goods and services are all part of global chains. This also creates some unique challenges, especially in the health sector, with spillover effects on the economy and governance. There is little probability of an outbreak being limited to a particular region. A reportedly zoonotic spillover that occurred in the Hubei province of China has now brought the world to a grinding halt in double-quick time.Kerala has always been an important hub in the global trade route. It is here that Europeans first landed on the Indian mainland. People from Kerala have also travelled far and wide. Evidence of this is the fact that the tiny state has four international airports. It is no surprise that Kerala became the first Indian state to report a coronavirus incident. The first wave of the Covid-19 outbreak reached Kerala in the last week of January. The state government responded swiftly as Kerala became a bulwark against the disease and successfully prevented local and community transmission. We need to appreciate that Kerala remains one of the few states to achieve such a feat. Government officials, local governments, the police, health and other departments have played a crucial role in this effort.However, the relief proved to be short-lived. By March, the Sars-CoV-2 virus found its way to Europe and eventually to North America. This has created some new challenges. Earlier, the screening process was focused on passengers from China and Korea. With more countries coming under the radar, screening and contact tracing became an enormous task. The state government undertook a massive efforts to rise to the challenge. A plethora of initiatives were introduced to strengthen the surveillance and control measures against the disease. A 24-hour control room was readied in the state capital to monitor the activities. A single-window communication channel was established with all district control rooms for high priority communications, which is headed at the state-level by the state control room. To improve the monitoring efforts, automated real-time data-capturing formats from the districts were established. Human resource management teams were constituted at the state and district levels. We have ensured that enough staff is deployed on the ground for airport surveillance, transportation, isolation services, contact tracing and call centre support. The state now has four facilities capable of testing for Covid-19. Six lines are operational at the state call centre.Our mental health professionals are giving counselling support to those who are isolated. Our earlier experience in successfully fighting Nipah has helped us handle the current crisis. Kerala has one of the finest public health networks in the country. Our public health system and health professionals have an integral role in helping Kerala attain high levels of human development. They are our frontline staff in this effort too. Teams of officials, which include health professionals and volunteers, are keeping constant contact with those under observation. The government has also come out with a set of suggestions to avoid social gatherings at public places to contain the spread of the virus. We have also been mindful of the indirect impacts that restrictions can cause. One such case is the issue of midday meals. As anganwadis in the state are closed, we have tried to ensure the home delivery of these meals.The Kerala State Drugs and Pharmaceuticals (KSDP), a public sector unit under the department of industries, has begun the production of hand sanitisers. It aims to produce 100,000 bottles in 10 days. Directions have been given to engage jails in manufacturing masks to overcome shortages. The prison officials of Thiruvananthapuram Jail have handed over the first batch of masks.We have also undertaken a massive outreach campaign to improve public awareness. Multilingual campaign materials are being prepared to reach every section of society. Kerala also hosts a sizable population of guest workers from the other Indian states. As the coronavirus cases are spiralling in the country, we have intensified the screening process. Now health officials and police are screening entry points to the state. The Union government and states must work in tandem to overcome this pandemic.Equally important is to swiftly scotch the barrage of misinformation that is being circulated by uninformed users of social media and through word of mouth. In this connection, Qkopy, a start-up incubated under Kerala Startup Mission, has launched a dedicated mobile app, called GoK-Direct Kerala. Within a day of its launch, the government was able to disseminate updates and instructions to over 200,000 people. The state government also appreciates Internet service providers in Kerala, who have agreed to augment the network capacity by 30 to 40% to facilitate those who are working from home. It will be particularly beneficial for those working in IT institutions.Surely, this is an unprecedented crisis that demands a multipronged and extraordinary response from our end. From what we know, we are only at the beginning of a major crisis. It would be premature and unwise to make any claims of victory. We should neither become complacent nor should we lose hope against this contagion. This too shall pass. We shall overcome. But we need to strain all our resources in mounting a response that meets the deadly virus in all its ramifications.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/how-kerala-is-battling-covid-19-writes-pinarayi-vijayan/story-qdVWhfansxcW4akgyq4qcM.html
18-03-2020||News||Covid-19 will devastate the economy. Buckle up, writes Praveen Chakravarty||Immediately after finance minister (FM), Nirmala Sitharaman, presented the Union Budget on February 1, I wrote an article in this newspaper comparing India’s economic crisis to what was, then, only China’s coronavirus problem, highlighting the wishful denial of their respective crises by both the governments.Much has changed since. The coronavirus is no longer just a Chinese problem, but a global one. India’s crisis is no longer just an economic one, but a health crisis too. China has moved from denial to action, and, ostensibly, is now clawing its way back to normalcy. India has just begun efforts to combat the epidemic. Will the virus impact 1% or 10% or 30% of India’s population is a question that health experts are agonising over. Regardless, it is clear that 100% of Indians will bear the brunt of the economic shock of Covid-19.Every major country has closed its borders. Every major city, town or province has imposed a lockdown. Billions of people are either already, or will soon be, under home arrest. Public places are being shut down, and gatherings are being cancelled. The world has, perhaps, not experienced such a disruption to lives and societies in such a synchronised manner since World War II. People being quarantined results in an inevitable slowdown of economic activity. A massive global economic shock cannot be prevented. So, by being quarantined, one could possibly escape the coronavirus, but cannot escape the economic impact of the virus. The question is not one of how bad the impending economic crisis will be, which is bound to be deep and sharp, but how long the economic pain will endure and what can be an effective antidote?China, the epicentre of this health crisis, is purportedly recovering much faster from this contagion than the rest of the world, and could soon have its factories reopened and running at full capacity. But with a virtual global shutdown, it will take much longer to recover the global economy. The world’s largest economies such as the United States and Europe are expected to contract and shrink in the near term. Recovery from such an extreme economic shock will be slow and tardy.Unlike during the 2008 global financial crisis, developed countries no longer have the headroom to print money or reduce interest rates to stimulate their economy to full recovery. Their available economic recovery tools are blunt and docile. Fortunately, India still has some potent tools left in its economic recovery toolbox that can help pull us out of this imminent economic slump. The Reserve Bank of India (RBI) governor, earlier this week, admitted for the first time that the economic impact from the coronavirus can be dire, and reassured businesses of the RBI’s readiness and willingness to act. This was a step in the right direction.First, the Government of India needs to roll out a big stimulus package, aimed at consumers and not producers. Money in the hands of people during times of crisis acts as a shock absorber for the overall economy. Next, India still has the monetary headroom to reduce interest rates, as the RBI governor, Shaktikanta Das, alluded to, which can incentivise both the demand and supply side of the economy. Third, we just need to hunker down and fix the financial system by proactively merging risky financial institutions with larger and safer institutions. There is no time left to wait for these shaky institutions to come to the brink of collapse, threatening the entire financial system as we are witnessing, and then scamper to rescue them in a haphazard manner. These are the immediate steps that can be effective in mitigating the disastrous impact on the economy and help restore normalcy. Surely, there will be a fiscal impact of all these measures but now is not the time for fiscal conservatism.Supply-side reforms, infrastructure investments and the like, that economists clamour for, will take time to trickle down, and, hence, can be the next phase of the revival package. While India’s economic recovery toolbox is not bare, sadly, the owners of this toolbox do not seem to know how to use these tools. I have no doubt that the FM is very industrious and sincere in her intent. But there seems to be a gaping hole between her intent and action. Her most recent handling of the twin collapse of global oil prices and YES Bank was inexplicable. Petrol and diesel prices could have been slashed dramatically, thereby, immediately putting ~4,000 in the hands of half of all Indian families, as per my calculations. Instead, she chose to raise duties and hoard all of the savings from the fall in global oil prices. YES Bank should have been merged with the State Bank of India, and the opportunity used to initiate action on all other risky institutions. Instead, the banking industry was coerced into keeping YES Bank as an independent entity, and, thus, limiting the options for acting on other fragile banks and institutions. Further, rather than reducing GST rates to boost consumption, the GST council, earlier this week, increased tax rates on mobile phones, which is now a staple for most Indians. If the government’s rationale for the tax hike was that it will spur domestic manufacturing of mobile phones in the long term, then I can only remind the finance minister of Keynes’ quote, “In the long run, we are all dead”.At a time when the global economy is going into a tail-spin, the economic policy-making skills of the government do not inspire confidence. In the coming months, the virus will infect many more Indians. And it will pass. But the economic wounds will last longer. When economic activity collapses so suddenly and sharply as it will due to the coronavirus, it leads to a liquidity crisis. Businesses lose revenues due to a demand slump, and are then unable to meet their payment obligations to vendors and banks, which then leads to a chain reaction. A liquidity crisis, when not acted upon quickly, leads to a solvency crisis, forcing the closure of these businesses. A solvency crisis can turn into a full-blown economic crisis. It need not play out this way. The economy can be padded with shock absorbers and nursed back to recovery. To be able to achieve that, we need a FM who has the ability to manage a $3-trillion economy.Praveen Chakravarty is a political economist and a senior office bearer of the Congress The views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/covid-19-will-devastate-the-economy-buckle-up-writes-praveen-chakravarty/story-4LPc8BRfVJhFCWEtBeRcZL.html
