19-03-2020||News||Use the Covid crisis to spur systemic changes||Former British Prime Minister Winston Churchill was known to say that no great crisis must be allowed to go to waste. The coronavirus disease (Covid-19), which until last month seemed limited to China, is now at everybody’s doorstep. While many expect that countries will imitate the broad protocols used by China and contain the virus, the coronavirus might continue as a recurring problem. Predicting its economic impact would be foolhardy, given that there is no parallel that has been so dramatically disruptive a global event. One can, however, look to establish some broad trends. The pandemic should inform our understanding of supply chains, changes in market position, fiscal deficits and multilateralism. Adam Smith, in the The Wealth of Nations, highlights the economic value of the division of labour. But this pandemic has shown that such a division of labour, when taken too far, has costs. China generates nearly 29% of world manufacturing. By way of comparison, India is at 3%. Covid-19 has caused a supply shock, with inadequate production taking place.If there is one certain impact of this pandemic, it will be the increased diversification of supply chains. Countries will need to adjust to some form of an economic reset. To take one extreme example, studies have identified that more than 95% of all antibiotics sold in the United States (US) come, indirectly or directly, from China. A large part of the active ingredients for medicines made in India is sourced from China. This cannot be an acceptable level of dependency on one country, however well-meaning it may be. This will likely change, not just in medicines but in other industries as well. Disruptions in demand and supply are opportunities for entrepreneurship. Previous situations of demand-supply breakdowns, such as war or the Great Depression, have been followed by substantial surges in pent-up demand, enabling either the emergence of new players or new technologies. Without a doubt, some Indian manufacturers should be able to benefit from these shifts in supply chains.The Reserve Bank of India has promised to step in to create some liquidity in the markets. However, since it is unlikely that any general purpose monetary stimuli will work, we will need to see strong liquidity measures targeted towards vulnerable industries and borrowers such as small and medium enterprises, travel companies and mortgage borrowers. One should also see some regulatory forbearance for the recognition of small ticket non-performing assets. This can mitigate the cash flow challenges that these entities will face due to the drop in economic activity. This crisis provides the call to arms to reset our under-invested health care system. Indian health care sustains itself due to private practitioners, starting from small rural doctors all the way to tertiary care. Government spending at 1.4 % of GDP is among the lowest in the world. The present government appears to have been proactive in its response to the virus, but one wonders why it didn’t, at the outset include leading private institutions in undertaking the widespread testing required. Its decision to put in mechanisms to involve 51 private laboratories are welcome, but this has not been operationalised yet. One hopes that it is not a case of too little, too late. Covid-19 is an opportunity to obtain political consensus for the expansion of the health care system on a national scale. Economic recoveries rely heavily on sentiment. Sentiment, during a crisis, depends on the perception of good governance and communication. There has been criticism of the secrecy around the Chinese response, although, once Beijing got its act together, it has been able to demonstrate remarkable progress amid tales of heroism from the country’s medical fraternity. In India, better communication and improved management can go some way in building confidence among the citizenry. If there is a belief that the information provided by the government accurate, the treatment is prompt and the health care system is competent, there is likely to be a greater willingness to invest in the future. One would hope that this pandemic will drive greater investment towards research in lesser-known, neglected tropical diseases. Most critically, the pandemic demonstrates that an interlinked world needs closer coordination, a part of which includes stronger multilateral institutions. Containing this pandemic is a global activity and every country has a responsibility to solve this problem. This crisis provides an opportunity for the nations of Europe to come up with some kind of coordinated fiscal policy, which has eluded them for years. The US, with one of the most powerful medical health systems in the world and an unparalleled capacity for research, can again demonstrate the leadership we saw in the 20th century. It could perhaps start by funding the World Health Organization and a kind of Manhattan Project-type of team to fast track a vaccine. We will see thousands of international contracts cancelled and the force majeure claims will need an aligned legal approach. It may be necessary to create the kinds of institutions (Fannie Mae/World Bank), which can accelerate the provision of financing. All of this can only happen when nations act together.In 2008, in response to the economic crisis, the leaders of the G20 nations had promptly met in Washington to come up with a forceful response. Surprisingly, we are still searching for that type of leadership. Only Prime Minister Narendra Modi has reached out to the South Asian countries for some form of coordinated action. One hopes that this pandemic can create a template for progressive multilateral action in an increasingly isolationist world.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/use-the-covid-crisis-to-spur-systemic-changes/story-4AQPacZtY0iK6MyckIxvPO.html
19-03-2020||News||The legal hole in battling Covid-19||The Union government recently advised the states to invoke the Epidemic Diseases Act of 1897. The travesty is that this fossilised 123-year-old Act does not even define what an epidemic is. This one-page, four-section-long, Act is ill-equipped to deal with the coronavirus (Covid-19) pandemic. Nations such as Australia, Canada, England and the United States (US), over the years have enacted holistic laws to deal with public health emergencies. The Act came into effect on February 4, 1897, to counter the bubonic plague epidemic in Mumbai. The Act was unable to restrict the plague to Mumbai and it soon spread to Bengaluru and other parts. The first section of the Act lays out the title and the extent of the bill; the second section authorises the state and central government to take exceptional measures and prescribe regulations that are to be observed to limit the spread of the disease; the third section specifies penalties for those violating the edict; and the fourth section gives protection under the law to officials and/or persons acting under the Act. The Act is deficient as it fails to even define a dangerous disease, let alone an epidemic. It is silent on the sequestering and the sequencing required for the dissemination of drugs/vaccines and other preventive steps. Neither is there any underlying conception of the principles of human rights that need to be observed during the contingency and emergency measures to be implemented. The punishment prescribed in terms of Section 3 of the Act, that is pari-passu with Section 188 of the Indian Penal Code, also needs to be revisited This Section provides for a fine of ~200 and simple imprisonment of one month for violating an order of a public servant. While ~200 is a pittance, imprisonment is an excess.Earlier, the Centre had conceptualised statutes such as the Model Public Health Act of 1955 that was updated in 1987. It was unable to convince states to adopt it since health is a state subject. The National Health Bill, 2009, was similarly targeted at providing an overarching legal framework for the provision of essential public health services by recognising health as a fundamental right. It also provided for a response mechanism for public health emergencies by outlining a collaborative federal framework. However, these did not lead to a legal structure as states considered it an encroachment on their domains. India’s legal framework, therefore, comes up wretchedly short when contrasted with contemporaneous laws that exist elsewhere.In Canada, emergency measures and emergency management at the federal level are governed by the Emergency Act, 1988, and the Emergency Management Act, 2007. Most provinces also have their own health Acts that delineate measures that are to be implemented in case of a health emergency. However, there is a comparatively higher bar for the federal government to take the lead in a health emergency. Hence, most health crises in Canada are handled at the provincial level in coordination with the central government. In Australia, the National Health Security Act, 2007, puts in place processes and structures to pre-empt, prevent and, in an eventuality, deal with national health emergencies, with designated entities providing coordination and oversight at the national level and the provinces applying their own laws, jurisdictional responses and coordination processes. In England, the Public Health (Control of Disease) Act, 1984, was brought into force with the aim of creating specific functions for different authorities in response to a national health emergency. This Act provides for a clear hierarchical chain in which the primary, secondary and tertiary responders need to operate when dealing with a health challenge. Responsibilities are clearly defined in the Act. The Public Health Service Act, 1944, in the US performs a similar function and creates an administrative framework to deal with any public health emergency. It foresees the need for supplemental manpower by creating a reserve corps to augment commissioned corps at short notice. The act was last amended in December 2019. President Donald Trump has now invoked the Defense Production Act 1950 to battle the pandemic.With the bare-bones legislative structure that exists in India, the State will find it hard to find legal backing to lockdown entire cities, forcefully quarantine people, order the temporary closure of businesses, and distribute medicines were the contingency to arise. The manner in which people who have returned from abroad, and are reported as being unwell, are being picked up by police forces is a primitive response to the current situation. One person from Balachour, in my constituency of Anandpur Sahib, tragically committed suicide by jumping off the roof of Safdarjung hospital after he was taken for testing. The stage is set for a gross mismanagement that the country can ill-afford at this juncture. During a discussion on the coronavirus in the Lok Sabha, I had pointed out this legal anomaly, while urging the government to bring about emergency legislation as Parliament is in session to rectify the situation. However, the suggestion, like all other good ones, fell on deaf ears. Once again, I would like to urge the government that public health emergencies, such as the one that the coronavirus situation has created, provide an opportunity to update our laws. Some day, in the not-too-distant future, this legislative and policy gap could become our Achilles’ heel.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/the-legal-hole-in-battling-covid-19/story-s0VFHssIu68N01oHs5LgDI.html
19-03-2020||News||What urban India can do to offset risks of Covid-19 | Opinion||India houses some of the most densely populated cities in the world, where people are forced to live in cramped spaces and travel in packed metros and buses every day. With novel coronavirus (Covid-19) cases on the rise — it has so far affected more than 150 countries — it is important to understand the urban dimensions of pandemic planning, and ensure preventive and curative measures for mitigation. With robust city management, India could become a forerunner in tackling the disease.In today’s world, the growth of medical science and digital infrastructure can be leveraged to successfully fight the spread of Covid-19. More than half the world’s population lives in urban areas. And national economies are heavily intertwined, thanks to globalisation.  City governments play a crucial role in developing efficient and innovative methods of confronting emerging infectious diseases, from ensuring the efficacy of physical and social infrastructure (water and sanitation, and hospitals and health care systems) to safeguarding the ecosystem through more connected networks of digital and economic infrastructure. Here is what needs to be done. One, water and sanitation authorities must ensure hygienic systems in the city. Environmental hygiene is an absolute necessity to effectively combat the spread of the virus. All public and community toilets must be sanitised at regular intervals and equipped with handwashing facilities and tissues. Public spaces such as parks, markets and institutions should have waste management and safe disposal systems working round the clock. The initiatives under the Swachh Bharat Mission and the Atal Mission for Rejuvenation and Urban Transformation (AMRUT) have already prepared many cities to effectively handle this effectively.  Two, digital infrastructure needs to be strengthened and monitored regularly by the district administration. Kerala is leading the way in successfully tracking and combating coronavirus cases. It is making effective use of its digital health infrastructure to isolate and diagnose positive cases. As part of an intensive drive, the Pathanamthitta district administration has come up with a system, with a GPS-supported system to track those quarantined in the district in order to restrict stray movement. A NITI Aayog report, Health System for a New India (2019), also advocates that digital initiatives are crucial in effectively managing health facilities clinically, administratively and financially. Three, data can play an important part in enhancing preparedness, curbing incidences, and containing the spread of identified cases. Local authorities must regularly monitor the spatial and temporal distribution of affected cases and geographical proximity to the affected regions. Subsequently, such data can be analysed to develop a comprehensive and robust response system. Given that smart infrastructure is in place in 100 Smart Cities of India, data collection and management can be explored and extended regionally. Four, non-pharmaceutical interventions (NPIs) help contain communicable diseases. The NPIs such as work-from-home, school closures and restricting public gatherings, which eliminate high-risk chances for mass infection and enforces social distancing, prevent the spread of the disease. This, in turn, reduces the chance of burdening the health care system and saves precious resources. Five, strong lines of communication with the community can go a long way in being the first line of defence. Certain NPI actions may draw public attention and can have negative psychosocial and economic consequences, especially to high-risk and vulnerable populations. Public messages should address fear, stigmatisation and discrimination. The Union ministry of health and family welfare recently released a comic book Kids, Vaayu and Corona: Who Wins the Fight? for creating awareness among children about the coronavirus. Using such early warning systems create a line of informed and cautious citizenry. Six, rationing of the health care system and temporary expansion of facilities may be required on critical care beds. Respiratory diseases such as Covid-19 necessitate specialist hospital treatment for a sizable proportion of those who become symptomatic, in the form of ventilation and the need for antibiotics to fight secondary infections. Quarantine centres and provisional hospitals with isolation facilities will be required to deal with established cases of Covid-19 infections. Seven, maintaining and regulating the supply of essential drugs and precautionary items such as masks, medical textiles, hand wash and alcohol-based sanitisers is necessary. On March 13, the Union government declared hand sanitisers and masks as “essential commodities” under the Essential Commodities Act till June 30. It was important to do this to avoid a situation of demand–supply mismatch, rent-seeking, hoarding and exorbitant pricing.And, eight, the urban economy is likely to be hit, and this cannot be disregarded as cities contribute significantly to GDP. District authorities can play an important role in minimising local economic impact. Individuals in precarious employment deserve targeted attention. Precautionary measures will definitely help to keep the economic engine going, and early response can abate long-term impact. A well-managed and planned urban system can reduce the risks of pandemics and endemics. India’s urban system will have to champion the change for a more organised and formal development. Even though there is little or no population immunity to the virus, with proactive planning and implementation, the impact of this pandemic can be mitigated effectively to avoid the worst-case scenario effectively.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/what-urban-india-can-do-to-offset-risks-of-covid-19-opinion/story-UAqngMaLx5G0TKXyIyVAMM.html
