21-03-2020||News||Why Himalayan towns and cities are running dry||A recent study covering 13 towns across four countries – Bangladesh, India, Nepal, and Pakistan – in the Hindu Kush Himalayan (HKH) region shows that these towns are facing increased water insecurity, thanks to inadequate urban planning coupled with a rapidly changing climate. The study – the first-of-its-kind in the HKH – reveals the links between water availability, supply systems, rapid urbanisation, and consequent increase in water demand (both daily and seasonal) that are leading to increasing water insecurity in towns in the region. In an interview to Hindustan Times, Anjal Prakash, who led the research study, talks in detail about the crisis in the HKH region and the way ahead. Dr Prakash is research director and adjunct associate professor, Bharti Institute of Public Policy, Indian School of Business, India. KD: What are the headline points of the study? AP: A set of 10 research studies, covering 12 Himalayan towns, has been published as a special issue of the Water Policy journal in March 2020. We took up eight towns across three countries in the HKH region: Pakistan, India and Nepal. We found that these towns are facing increased water insecurity due to inadequate urban planning, coupled with changing climate; and that there are is a strong interlinkage between water availability, water supply systems, rapid urbanisation, and consequent increase in water demand (both daily and seasonal). These factors are leading to increasing water insecurity in towns in the region.KD: How bad is the water situation in the Himalayas and why should people living downstream take note of this scarcity? AP: The study shows that the water demand-supply gap in eight of the surveyed towns in the Himalayas is 20%–70%. There is a high dependence on springs (between 50% and 100%) for water supply in three-fourths of the urban areas. Based on current trends, the demand-supply gap may double by 2050. A holistic water management approach that includes springshed management and planned adaptation is, therefore, paramount for securing safe water supply in the urban Himalaya. The Himalayas are the water tower of south and south-east Asia. Ten major rivers originate from this region that feeds around two billion people in Asia. Due to a rapidly changing climate, the water regime of this region is changing and it’s impacting the life and livelihood of millions of people who are dependent on the river water. The problem in urban Himalayas is more of a sustainable management issue wherein climate change is coming as a force multiplier. KD: What is the future of Himalayan tourist towns such as Shimla and Darjeeling?AP: In 2018 summer, acute water scarcity was reported from Shimla. In Darjeeling, a similar situation has been reported. A recent study reported that around 65% of the people in Darjeeling town do not have access to public water supply and are forced to depend on the locally available alternative sources of water. This is apart from our research team’s work in eastern and western Himalayan regions of India. Neha Bharti and her team researched in Mussoorie and Devprayag. In both the towns, springs are the source of the piped water supply system. In Mussoorie, the municipality taps 20 spring sources to generate nine million litres per day (MLD) of water, transported by gravity and pumping systems. There is a 98 km-wide network of distribution pipelines, with 4,065 domestic and 1,206 commercial tap connections, covering approximately 90% of Mussoorie’s area. Rinan Shah and Srinivas Badiger of our research team studied Darjeeling. They report that despite getting a substantial amount of rainfall, households in Darjeeling suffer from acute water scarcity. Water management issues are essential for governance. Living in high rainfall regions and experiencing water scarcity is indeed a paradox. KD: What kind of measures (environmental and civic) need to be taken to redress the situation? AP: The study proposes five major steps -- a mix of environmental, climate change and governance concerns.First, water needs to be sustainably sourced to bridge the gap between supply and demand. Given that spring water is the only (and inadequate) source in many Himalayan towns, sustainable sourcing could be done by increasing budgetary allocations for reviving and protecting springs, increasing water harvesting, and diversifying water sources. Second, water governance and management need to consider issues and services beyond water utilities. A polycentric governance system – which would involve multiple governing bodies and institutions interacting with one another to ensure access to water – could be a more suitable water governance model in Himalayan towns and cities. Third, the equitable distribution of water needs more attention. The poor and marginalised are most affected when water supply dwindles. Many cities are faced with the challenge of providing access to safe water for the poor, especially during the dry season when supply dwindles. Fourth, women’s multiple roles in water management need to be recognised, and their role in the planning and decision-making processes needs to be reviewed and strengthened. Fifth, mountain cities need to be viewed in the broader context of mountain water, environment, and energy. Climate change impacts on these sectors are presenting new and growing challenges to Himalayan towns and cities that require innovative solutions. KD: How can communities help in improving the situation? AP: An important aspect of urban water management is decentralised governance and the devolution of power to local bodies and institutions managing water. A study of Tansen and Damauli, two small towns in Nepal, by Sreoshi Singh and her team, shows that water institutions have played a very significant role in water supply management at the local level and that proper management can help avert critical water shortages. The research compares two towns that have different outcomes for water supply and access. In Tansen, infrastructural constraints and large-scale corruption in the systems’ upkeep and maintenance have implications on water governance, while in Damauli the systems have been managed well due to involvement of local communities. The case of Darjeeling in the Indian Himalaya by Rinan Shah and Srinivas Badiger show that the water crisis is the result of a conundrum due to the interlinked problems of political unwillingness, insufficient investments, failure of cooperation between the state and regional institutions, and inadequacies in local governance including institutional capacity. We are of the firm belief that water management can be rational only if the institutions responsible for such management are efficient. Many shreds of evidence show that community’s participation in the enforcement of rules and regulations on illegal connections and the misuse of water and optimisation of the budget for public utility services has helped in maintaining the service levels although the challenges of access to water persist. Access is a larger issue of investment in water infrastructure and urban planning processes that must include the voice of the local communities in the planning and management of water infrastructure. KD: Any other key points? AP: Our study shows that there is a mismatch between urban and environmental planning. Ideally, urban planning should include the environmental aspects of the location and include it in the planning process. We found that many basic services such as water supply, sanitation etc have not been taken into account as we expand the towns. Himalayan towns have a major issue in terms of geographical space for expansion and its carrying capacity. Of all the towns we studied, the source of water is from springs. A lot is required to protect the springs’ watershed so that water supply and its sustainability are ensured. One more issue is of peak demands during tourist seasons – none of the towns had official and public data of the number of visitors come during peak seasons. The carrying capacity of the Himalayan towns is limited and, therefore, dialogues are needed to understand the balance between demand and supply of services during peak seasons based on scientific data. The third aspect is the readiness to deal with disasters. The Himalayan town’s infrastructure has to be climate resilient so that it can withstand disasters such as floods and landslides. We found very little evidence of the readiness of these towns and that is a matter of concern.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/why-himalayan-towns-and-cities-are-running-dry/story-sS0VfGY6fJbyX4u062FBIN.html
21-03-2020||News||The war against coronavirus is a people’s war. Here is how to fight it, writes Naresh Trehan||As the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) spreads rapidly across the world, India finds itself dealing with two types of situations. One, the perception in the general public about the magnitude of the pandemic, and two, the mindset that India must now create to fight it. To deal with Covid-19, there must be synergy between the two. The coronavirus is a different type of virus; it is more virulent and aggressive than those of the past and is spreading quickly. Recognising this is key. The caution that we exercise must be proportionate to its intensity. Although the virus originated in Wuhan, China, and then spread swiftly across the world, India seems to have got it from Italy, Iran and other countries, not China. Of them, Italy has a lethal strain, causing parts of the country to face a severe blow with the death toll exceeding even that of China. If India has got that strain, it must be prepared to face the severity of it. For India to battle Covid-19 effectively, the approach must be multi-layered. Identification at the first stage (when travellers who have visited contaminated regions have returned to India) and the second (those infected through direct contact with the traveller) is the best defence. This places the onus on individuals, who must report their travel history to the government, self-isolate for two weeks — the gestation period of the virus — and take various precautions within their own homes. The government can then prepare to successfully contain it at the local level. Simply put, the larger the area, the more difficult it is to contain the virus. Things get harder as the country reaches stage three — community transmission. Right now, there isn’t clarity on whether the virus is spreading at the community-level or not, but suspicions have arisen due to an incremental number of cases being reported in the last few days. We may well be heading there. As we do, it is important to remember that, while all those with symptoms of Covid-19 — cold, cough and flu among others — may not test positive for the disease, it is imperative that a self-quarantine is put in place to rule out the possibility of a community outbreak. Since the flu season is upon us, it may well be the common flu, swine flu or other illnesses, but people must still exercise self-restraint at the risk of it being Covid-19. And if the flu is accompanied by breathing issues, they must follow the government protocol to ensure that they are tested immediately. The Centre and state governments must be credited for acting quickly in making efforts. Locking down states, restricting movement, and cancelling events are welcome. But this message must echo among all sections of society. General markets have continued to remain crowded, despite the advisory on limiting the maximum number of people in any space. Awareness on the importance of social distancing as a tool to contain the virus is required. The Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) has begun community surveillance and testing random samples of patients with pneumonia-like or chest-related symptoms. The results of recent tests came up negative, indicating that community transmission may not have occurred. This initiative is welcome, as it gives us a dipstick idea of how rapidly it is spreading. However, in the wake of Covid-19, India’s health care systems have proved to be inadequate. Cases from isolation centres highlight the dismal quality of facilities, causing people with symptoms to flee isolation wards for fear of contracting illnesses. This must change. With limited resources and a population of 1.37 billion people, the government can’t do this alone. Recognising that the possibility of entering the third phase is looming, reputed and certified private laboratories have shown readiness to conduct tests. The private sector will work alongside the government to combat the disease, if the government so chooses. As a large country, even a few per cent of infected people will weigh heavy on existing health care systems. It must now proactively build designated Covid-19 hospitals across the country. Maharashtra is a step ahead. It has converted a non-functional facility into a Covid-19 hospital. Hospitals across India, which are no longer operational, along with those that have the flexibility to shift patients, must be converted into specialised units for treatment. This will help isolate patients from the rest of the country, thereby containing the spread. This approach worked well for China. Although delayed in its response, it built designated Covid-19 hospitals. Six weeks ago, China had an overwhelming majority of the cases of the world, and the rest had just a fraction. Today, the graph is reversing. China’s Hubei province has, for the first time, since the outbreak, on March 19, reported no new cases. Italy, on the other hand, didn’t respond with aggression, causing devastation and death which it is still reeling from. India must approach the crisis on war-footing. The war against Covid-19 is a national emergency. So far, there is a continuous and strong line of communication between the government and the private sector. But now, India is at an inflection point. The next phase is crucial. While panic isn’t necessary (as it suggests that we have lost our balance), we must, however, show extreme seriousness and exercise maximum caution. The crux lies in prevention and control, rather attempting to tame it after it runs wild.The country — the media, health care professionals, civil society, corporations — are getting together to spread the right information. As the chairman of Confederation of Indian Industry (CII)’s National Committee on Healthcare, I can confirm that corporations are putting their heads together to continue the conversation of best practices and meaningful collaboration. The CII’s latest video on awareness will soon be available in vernacular languages to spread the message to the remotest parts of India. Across the spectrum, headed by a willing and proactive government, communities must work together. An early warning can definitely flatten the curve. Let it not peak.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/the-war-against-coronavirus-is-a-people-s-war-here-is-how-to-fight-it/story-Qaumo11wcIiEDdw1N66CGK.html
