22-03-2020||News||In Covid-19 times, telecom emerges as a saviour||The coronavirus disease (Covid-19) has forced citizens to adapt to a new lifestyle. There is advocacy around these social changes, staying home, maintaining high standards of personal hygiene, and practising social distancing to remain safe. These changes are radically disruptive. But some of them could end up as somewhat more fundamental changes. With the evolution of technology, we, as social beings, have pushed social distancing to become inversely proportionate to virtual proximity in these times. There is an ecosystem of telecom infrastructure, social media platforms, digital content and digital services that allow virtuality to fill the physicality void, and remain productive, with significantly mitigated continuity risks. To achieve this though, at the least, you need a telecommunications infrastructure, that connects all these dots. This allows you to do video conferencing, access content over the Internet, access your office software and servers, as many applications and content have moved to the cloud. All the content you require to work from anywhere is possible because of this virtual infrastructure. WiFi is not as pervasive in India due to a low fixed-line penetration, and, therefore, wireless – especially technologies such as 4G – provide you access and connectivity to deal with disruptions. It may not be true in the hinterland, but, at least in the big cities, this is a very powerful medium to ensure that there is the least amount of disruption and productivity loss in your personal and professional lives. Of course, there are businesses such as aviation, hospitality and travel that get impacted immediately. But other than the demand spikes for online grocery and pharmacies, if there is one sector that is delineated from a demand perspective in the market, it is telecom. The industry, especially wireless telecommunications, is one that seems insulated from this crisis from a business perspective. Fixed lines need a lot of physicality, because you may need a person to fix things if they go wrong. The bulk of wireless issues, on the other hand, are sorted out virtually with built-in redundancies. The demand for telecommunications and connectivity in a crisis such as the coronavirus has a reasonable probability of going up. Without, in any way, undermining the tragedy that the disease represents, and the costs the nation is incurring, the moment will benefit a sector which is so plagued by financial losses, sustainability issues and the Adjusted Gross Revenue verdict, which entails telecom companies to pay huge dues. Millions forced to stay at home amid the outbreak have driven up the demand for online games and streaming services in China. India may be no different, and there is a high probability of data consumption going up, despite our wireless networks being more disposed in commercial districts rather than homes. But the benefits go beyond the merely commercial. Telecom helps people combat the disease at a social level through enhanced awareness. All the communication on social media is, virtually, real-time, which is possible only because of this telecom infrastructure. It’s precisely because of this infrastructure that the Prime Minister could bring all South Asian leaders on a virtual platform to discuss the crisis. Even for those who are not connected to the Internet, voice connectivity remains relevant. It may not be real-time, but it still helps them operate with a slight lag. The telecom sector is playing the role of a catalyst — for those who are suffering, for those who are not, for people who are anxious to get information, for those who are experts. It is providing a lot of connect and information flow. If there was no virtual connectivity providing real-time information, citizens would suffer from anxiety and fear. It also helps deal with boredom. For millions who are not used to staying at home, it makes the confinement a lot easier. And businesses benefit the most, for it helps them continue their operations, both domestically and internationally, even when physical interactions are not possible.What we are witnessing is a temporary adjustment to manage the sudden arrival of the coronavirus crisis. Depending upon the longevity of this problem, it could actually lead to transformational change in how businesses function and people lead their lives. It is difficult to ascertain, at the moment, the extent to which this will happen. But there might be a reasonable possibility of arguments in favour of working from home gaining traction, beyond this crisis. We had never experimented with the idea at this scale, and we were not sure of the experience we and our employers would have with it. Now that we are practising it at this scale, and if we can sustain a good experience, there is no reason why work from home won’t be a viable option in future. It can also bring social change within the home. There is a usual division of labour at home between men and women. With the virtualisation, the time spent with family will go up, and the chores that you deal with also get more gender-balanced. That equality is more pronounced in the western world than in our region, but this could be one likely result of the aftermath of the coronavirus crisis. And, quite simply, achieving some sort of permanency in areas like personal hygiene— the advocacy for which telecom sector helps magnify — will do good to society and mitigate future virus attacks.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/in-covid-19-times-telecom-emerges-as-a-saviour/story-AE7sgE6loUnWj3cW7zeRrN.html
22-03-2020||News||Without clean water, fighting diseases is a pipe dream||Today is World Water Day. The theme for 2020 is “Water and climate change”, and how the two are inextricably linked. The official functions that mark such days — the release of reports, speeches by experts and people-centric activities — will be muted this year due to the coronavirus pandemic. Nevertheless, there isn’t a more appropriate time to underline the importance of water and its availability because there is a link between bad public hygiene and the spread of diseases. First, to avoid the spread of diseases, India has to ensure clean and adequate water for all. Second, there’s an express need to invest more in water conservation efforts to ensure long-term availability of the resource, given its indiscriminate use and the larger context of the climate crisis. And, third, the State and citizens must continue with the current push to improve general cleanliness and hand-washing even after the current coronavirus outbreak subsides. And for that, citizens will need an assured supply of not just water, but good quality water. The scale of the water challenge, however, is humongous. A 2017 World Bank report said about 160 million of the country’s 1.3 billion people don’t have access to clean water and that 21% of communicable diseases are linked to unsafe water and the lack of hygiene practices. The government’s think tank, NITI Aayog, says 600 million Indians face acute water shortages. Even India’s public health infrastructure, which probably is the first port of call for the poor, often lacks adequate water and sanitation facilities. Barely 18% of rural households have access to piped water. Last year, the Centre said that at least 189.7 million rural habitations are getting less than 40 litres per capita per day, which is the norm while implementing rural water supply schemes for providing potable water. Or take hand-washing. As the number of coronavirus cases detected in India rises, health professionals have suggested frequent hand-washing as a precautionary measure. But getting people to do this may not be easy as many households across the country do not have adequate hand-washing facilities, according to the National Family Health Survey (2015-16). The enumerators could find a designated place for washing hands in about 97% of households surveyed, but not all of them with adequate cleaning facilities. Water was not available in 14% of these households at the place where hands were washed. In urban areas, the share of such households was only 6% compared to 18% in rural areas. To be sure, among the households that had water, about 19% had no cleaning agent such as soap, ash, mud or sand.The Centre has been focusing on water conservation and trying to ensure piped water to households under the Jal Jeevan Mission (JJM). However, there is a question of resources. The allocation for JJM in the current financial year is ~11,500 crore, compared to ~10,000 crore last year. The water challenge is only growing. Twenty-one Indian cities, including Delhi, Bengaluru, Chennai, and Hyderabad, will run out of groundwater by 2030, affecting 100 million people, says a NITI Aayog report. Many villages too face a severe water crisis, leading to a development crisis, and it is also forcing people to migrate. As the coronavirus episode shows, India doesn’t have the luxury of time to tackle the related challenges. Since building mega water conservation and distribution projects take time and funds, it is imperative that the State increases its push for small-scale, decentralised efforts to ensure a safe and healthy life for every citizen.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/without-clean-water-fighting-diseases-is-a-pipe-dream/story-6HeqrUnk2uCMtNy2MTNHiK.html
