23-03-2020||News||When Covid-19 enters India’s slums||The spread of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in India’s slums will be even faster than in the non-slum areas we seem to be tracking so far.Overcrowding, lack of clean water, poor sanitation, social dependency, larger number of human contacts, low disease immunity of dwellers, besides poor medical facilities make for tremendous speed and size of virus transmission in slums. The poor quality of air in urban slums are a common cause for respiratory diseases that further reduces the respiratory tract’s ability to shut the coronavirus down. Our research at the Centre for Sustainability has explored the implications of the unique social infrastructure of slums in India on the significant role it plays in the spread of Covid-19.India is home to about one-third of the global slum population, with an average of one in six city residents living in slums where population densities vary between 277,136 persons per square kilometre (sq km) in Dharavi to 125,000 persons per sq km at the Rasolpoora slum in Hyderabad. Slums are an integral part of the city’s economy as that is where a majority of workers and domestic help stay. Various authors have estimated that reproductive ratio (R naught) for Covid-19 is somewhere between two and three, and that it would be about 20% more in the case of India’s slum population. This means that the reproductive ratio of Covid-19 would range between 2.4 to 3.6 in Indian slums. R naught applies to a situation where everyone in the population is susceptible, and no control measures are taken. It gives us the number of new cases that an existing case can generate over time, on an average. If R naught is below one, the population of infected individuals will get smaller and smaller over time. But in a fictitious population, where one infected person infects three other individuals on average — A gives it to three people (B, C, and D) and these three people give it to three more people each — R naught is equal to three. Indeed, the spread of Covid-19 depends on the susceptible population that an infected person is going to encounter per time unit — let us say per day, times the average duration of infectiousness in days, times the average probability that transmission will take place per unit of contact. In order to ascertain if Covid-19 is going to spread fast and wide, besides the R naught, we need to also know the serial interval of the spread. The serial interval is a measure of how fast the disease spreads from one person to the next, and this changes across localities and time. We took a fictional case of 1,000 individuals in a Delhi slum who have never been exposed to the coronavirus. While R naught is three, we find the current serial interval in a moderately dense Delhi slum zone to be close to about 7.5 days. So, in the first 7.5 days, the infected person infects three people, and they develop the disease. After 7.5 more days, each of these individuals infects three more people, and they, then, develop the disease. So, we now have nine infected people, and, after 7.5 more days, each one of those nine people infects three people each. Similarly, after another phase of 7.5 days, each 27 infected individuals infect three people each, which means 81 individuals. Add the first individual with the next three, then the next nine, then the next 27, and then the final 81. And, in a month, you have 121 new cases per 1,000 people.This simulation indicates the high speed of spread of Covid-19 in all the slums in Delhi/India. Assuming such a community transmission occurs, we are in for a disastrous situation, for which the precautionary measure of maintaining physical distance between individuals in slums appears impossible for at least three reasons. First, the sheer lack of living space in slums makes physical distancing of people impossible. The average slum household size in India is typically three times larger than a non-slum household, but members only have a few square metres to live within it. The average population density is about 1,000 people per square mile but in the slums, it is 10-100 times higher.Second, the lack of adequate social security by the State or private insurance makes the fight against Covid-19 even more complex. It leads to the impossibility of expecting slum dwellers to socially distance themselves from the only insurance policy they usually have — their family and social networks.Third, with an average of 88.7% of households in India having access to improved sanitation services under the government’s Swachh Bharat Abhiyan, the situation is better than it was before 2014. However, access to sanitation is still low. Our research indicated that 70.30% households in Delhi slums do not have improved sanitation. The situation is much worse in Dharavi with one toilet per 1,440 residents. How do people maintain social distance in such situations? Moreover, the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic survives even longer than three days in faecal matter, which makes crowding around toilets and living amid bad drainage a major threat at this time.And so, instead, we propose the immediate roll-out of the following urgent measures.First, the focus must shift to proactive testing for asymptomatic and symptomatic Covid bearers within the most vulnerable, high population density pockets of our population. There are genuine capacity issues but this would mean that we need mandatory testing of Covid-19 of all slum inhabitants across India. Quarantine the asymptomatic and symptomatic bearers of the virus in slum zones in different isolated locations. Second, we need to ensure that slum residents do not have to crowd around sanitation facilities. Install temporary or mobile toilets. Third, we must deploy tankers to immediately provide clean water to slums so they can maintain good hygiene. Our research shows that 19.15% of inhabitants of slums in Delhi have no clean water sources. About 160 million Indians do not have access to clean water, and definitely not hand sanitisers.And, finally, the only way individuals suffering from mild to severe symptoms from the slums will come forward is if they think the State or the health authorities can do something to help them. We must not make Covid-19 a social stigma.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/when-covid-19-enters-india-s-slums/story-w44elXbCeYX2dE8K2qpnAP.html
23-03-2020||News||Social distancing is good. But get ready for a surge | Opinion||We live in a state of coronavirus-fuelled anxiety. In such times, we try to build walls and fences to keep the danger out. So, India has enforced sweeping restrictions on outsiders coming into the country, and stringent testing for those returning from abroad. The government’s strategy to contain this pandemic is largely based on surveillance and restrictions on international travellers, and now, a push towards social distancing. Will this work to keep the virus from spreading in the country? Or is the enemy already within, slowly entrenching itself? The evidence from other countries is mixed on how useful travel bans are in stamping out the virus. The United States (US) was the first country to ban travellers from China on February 1. India followed suit a few days later along with Singapore, Vietnam, Russia, and the Philippines. But this did not stop the virus from entering any of these countries. The US is seeing an explosion of cases, while other places, including India, are seeing slow, steady rises in case numbers. This particular coronavirus spreads easily from one human to another, carried mostly by respiratory droplets. It passes from human to human in difficult-to-detect chains of transmission. This is because the majority of cases have mild symptoms — a cough or a barely detectable fever — and may not realise they are infected, but can still pass the virus on to others. A recent study published in Science estimated that mild and asymptomatic patients in Wuhan, who were never tested and did not know they were infectious, played an important role in the spread of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19). This being the case, restrictions on travellers from abroad will only bring a brief respite since the virus is already in the country. Once the virus is in a country, governments across the world have responded in three ways.The first is aggressive testing, to quickly detect and isolate sick patients and trace their contacts before they have a chance to spread the virus further. As the director-general of the World Health Organization put it, the only way to contain the virus is to “find, isolate, test and treat every case to break the chains of transmission. Every case we find and treat limits the expansion of the disease”.The second way is through social distancing, to the extent of shutting down normal life. This is what Wuhan and other cities in China did, and which cities and regions across the world, including parts of Italy, and the bay area in California, are doing. The “shelter in place” order that was imposed on parts of California required people to stay in their homes except to shop or for medical emergencies. This is what India seems to be moving towards, with the “Janata Curfew” on Sunday. But more will be required if the speed at which the virus spreads is to be slowed down. Wuhan and other cities in China shut down transport systems, issued stay-at-home orders and kept only essential services going for an extended period. In India, an extended Wuhan-type shutdown is going to be extremely difficult to implement, and the impact will be felt disproportionally by the poor, who need to work every day for their survival, and don’t have the luxury of working from home. Wealthy countries like the US can afford to dole out money to lessen the shock. Countries like India cannot. The third, and most important way governments across the world have acted, is by strengthening the hospital system. The majority of those infected by Covid-19 will have mild, or perhaps no symptoms. But the 20% or so who get infected will require hospital beds, and the more severe cases will require intensive care beds. Once the virus really gets going, and case numbers take off, patients requiring hospitalisation will come not in an orderly way, in ones and twos, but in waves. From the experience so far of how this virus behaves, those above the age of 60 with other underlying medical conditions will be at the greatest risk of severe illness. Doctors, nurses and other health care workers will also be at great risk, given the high number of infected patients they will be examining, and the long stressful hours they will have to work. Infection control protocols become even harder to follow when health personnel are stressed and overworked. Supplies of ventilators, oxygen, masks, gloves, disinfectants could run short. Any lack of preparedness in India’s health system will be cruelly exposed. By the Indian Council of Medical Research’s reckoning, the disease is not yet spreading in the community beyond immediate contacts of infected people. But given the experience of other countries, it is highly probable that the virus will spread in the community, with cases popping up all over the country. The walls and fences that were built have not kept the virus out. But they have bought the country time to prepare for its eventual spread. That time needs to be used wisely to prepare people as well as the hospital system for the full impact of a pandemic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/social-distancing-is-good-but-get-ready-for-a-surge/story-WbTByunUnokeGyS6AsLzbP.html
