24-03-2020||News||The crumbling of India’s economy||Only a few weeks ago, we were talking about the persistent economic slowdown, the revenue shortfall in the Union Budget, and the jobs crisis. Now that the menacing winds of a pandemic rip across the world, literally shutting down entire countries, one almost feels nostalgic for yesterday, when all our troubles seemed so far away. Phrases like “social multiplier” and “going viral” have taken more sinister undertones, to be replaced by social isolation and self-quarantine. These are no longer the luxury of the reclusive, but an enforced necessity for all. While the direct public health crisis caused by the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) and its resulting pressure on the health care system are all too visible, its economic impact will also follow a viral path. First, economic activity is all about interaction among people. Trade and commerce thrive on these webs of interactions, which is why cities are more prosperous than villages. But, unfortunately, so do viral infections. So, in this situation, the higher the population density, and the wider the exposure to the outside world, the greater the risk of contagion. The denser the web of economic relationships — in cites as opposed to villages — the greater the impact will be. Second, exactly like an infection, shocks to economic activity quickly spread across people through the channels of supply and demand. As some people stop going to work or reduce working hours because they are unwell or self-isolating, the supply of goods and services gets affected. In the short-run, panic buying of essentials aggravates this problem. Since most goods and services use a whole series of intermediate inputs, supply chains collapse like dominoes within and across countries, causing the initial shock to spread to a much wider group of people, like a contagion. Again, the more advanced or urbanised the region, the bigger the effect will be. Third, someone’s supply shock is another person’s demand shock. Unless you are a salaried employee in a guaranteed job (a luxury enjoyed by at most 5% of the workforce in India) — if you cannot supply your good or service, your earnings go down. This will cause a drop in demand for other suppliers — an aftershock of the initial supply shock. This slowdown will be reinforced by the pervasive uncertainty that will cause people to delay purchases and save up for an even rainier day. This, in turn, will delay economic recovery, and shops and businesses will struggle to stay afloat. They will start firing casual workers, and might even go bankrupt. The original disruption would have now spread through the body of the whole economy, and without a massive policy response, it will stay sick for a prolonged period. The fact that two-thirds of the population live in rural areas has been one positive aspect as far as India is concerned, since the exposure to the virus has been more in urban areas, with a much higher inflow of people coming from abroad. Moreover, given the large population density in urban areas, the contagion spreads faster. However, health infrastructure is poorer in rural areas and that is a major vulnerability in dealing with the crisis. Moreover, as the economic aftershock spreads through the economy, many of the migrant workers in the cities are heading back to their homes in rural areas, opening up a channel of contagion. If we look at the economic impact of the crisis, urban areas will be more affected, as social distancing negatively affects certain types of consumption that tend to be more concentrated in urban areas, such as services, entertainment, and transportation. The resulting slowdown of economic activity will affect the informal sector, which employs 85% of the labour force and contributes to nearly half of the GDP. This is a sector where social isolation will be impossible to enforce because of poverty and the need to go out and eke out a living. Therefore, the economic aftershocks will spread to rural areas as well. As we scramble to come up with a policy response to one of the biggest health care and economic crises in our history, we need to be mindful of these facts. The first priority of the government would be to shore up expenditure on public health to deal with the ongoing crisis, which includes recruitment and training of an army of primary health care workers. This is also a perfect time to make an immediate direct income transfer to all those who do not have guaranteed jobs or file income taxes. Sounds outlandish? Well, the Donald Trump administration, no bastion of Left-leaning liberals, is in the process of discussing a stimulus plan that includes the proposal of $1,200 cash payments to all Americans. As we wait for this invisible menace to slink back to the obscure lair from which it stealthily emerged, creating havoc and death across the globe, we are constantly reminded how interconnected our lives are, and how fragile these links are. We ignore the plight of others — especially the poorer and the underprivileged — at our own direct peril. Maybe that can be one positive lesson to come out of this unprecedented crisis — we sink or swim together. It may not be quite visible, like the menace we are dealing with, but we cannot afford to ignore it.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/the-crumbling-of-india-s-economy/story-Ik5EmnaZ9L7aKpmb0pYoLL.html
24-03-2020||News||To mitigate the crisis, rethink role of regulators||The economic impact of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) may outlast its health effects. The global economy was stabilising before the spread of Covid-19. But now, there is a consensus that we may be headed for not just a slowdown, but perhaps even a recession.The Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development estimates that a broad contagion will lead to a 1.5% slowdown in the global growth. The World Trade Organization also expects a “substantial” impact on the global economy. The economic impact on India will be more profound because most jobs are informal, State capacity for disaster response is low, and health care is far from universal. Conventional wisdom says that exceptional times require exceptional measures. Western countries are, therefore, deploying a combination of social spending and private sector bailouts. The United States (US) put together a near trillion-dollar fiscal stimulus plan (around 5% of the US’s GDP) that includes payroll tax cuts, relief for small businesses, sectoral bailouts and direct payments to Americans. The equivalent for India, as a share of GDP, would be over ~9.5 lakh crore. This is not too short of the annual GST collection. The rupee is not a global currency like the dollar, limiting India’s ability to print money like the US. India’s current resources constrain its ability to mimic or sustain such spending. Consider the fact that the muscular Bharatiya Janata Party government struggles to increase real expenditure on military equipment, even in normal times. India can take an alternative path to building economic resilience — by repurposing its regulators to be more market-friendly. The country liberalised industries such as telecom and broadcasting in the 1990s and handed over sectoral governance to regulatory bodies. Such bodies are meant to guide rather than prescribe. However, since India liberalised under the duress of the balance of payments crisis, regulatory design helped maintain heavy-handed State control. Consequently, businesses are often locked in adversarial court battles with the State. Regulators watch over idly, as disputes erode value. The most high-profile of such disputes, in recent years, bears testimony to the failure of regulatory bodies in smoothening the interaction between markets and the State. In October 2019, the Supreme Court demanded that telecom companies pay statutory dues worth ₹1.47 lakh crore to the central government. That amount is 25 times more than the funds allocated for national broadband, under the BharatNet programme. Naturally, these dues didn’t pile up overnight. They stem from a 15-year-old dispute over whether a share of revenues from dividends, interest income and asset sales should accrue to government in exchange for giving telcos a licence to operate. In hindsight, a well-regulated industry would not be subject to such a large fiscal shock. Another way to offset economic disruption at a time of global crisis, is for the State to impose a moratorium on fresh regulations that don’t address large market failures, such as in the case of telecom. According to global health experts, the development of an approved Covid-19 vaccine will take, at the minimum, 18 months. As a result, regulated markets will remain stressed in the medium-term. The message for regulators is loud and clear — they must put the economic dimension of public interest at a much higher pedestal than they do, during this period.Rule changes involve stakeholder consultations, business re-engineering, and on-ground implementation. For instance, broadcasting regulations introduced earlier this year require changes in the pricing, bundling and carriage of TV channels. Are they mission critical for the economy? Probably not. In fact, the precursor to these regulations caused wide-scale cord cutting by around 12 to 15 million subscribers in 2019. The Maharashtra Cable Operators Federation and individual distributors have already asked the Telecom Regulatory Authority of India to defer the new exercise, because household visits, to implement these changes, are accompanied by significant health risks. Focusing on regulatory relief for those at the top of the economic pyramid may seem counter-intuitive, but the same logic applies to the much-welcomed moratorium on statutory compliance announced by the finance ministry on Tuesday. Moreover, regulated industries generate hundreds of thousands of jobs and attract large private investments. They help organise and generate value in supply chains. Even through a downturn period, telcos created around 28,000 direct jobs and around 48,000 indirect jobs in 2018-19. Indirect jobs are largely contractual and such workers are laid off when supply chains collapse. If regulators were to adopt a talisman for managing the economic fallout of the global pandemic it should be this — clearly demonstrate the economy-wide impact of new interventions on jobs and investments. In fact, “regulatory impact assessments” that measure such effects ex ante are used widely by many countries. India should immediately mandate such techniques through legislation and thereby preserve economic value.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/to-mitigate-the-crisis-rethink-role-of-regulators/story-yJTh3Exh5dn46DkGZH5NiN.html
24-03-2020||News||Needed: A national economic recovery plan||Prime Minister (PM) Narendra Modi’s call for a first-of-its-kind “janata curfew” on March 22 was by the people, for the people. It was symbolic of India’s resolve to fight the deadly coronavirus disease (Covid-19) which has thrown global social life and the economy out of kilter. With a rising number of cases in India, we must be prepared to tackle a burgeoning social and economic crisis.While the public health care system, both at the central and the state level, is dealing with the challenge, the private sector is also fully geared up to assist and support the State in testing, making beds and quarantine facilities for treatment available, training health care workers as well as providing 24x7 helplines and spreading awareness through social media and other such tools.With the government allowing testing and issuing guidelines for testing in private laboratories, it is necessary to step up capabilities in testing and treatment. The private sector has been in close touch with the government on private-public partnerships (PPP) relating to Covid-19. A powerful ecosystem will soon evolve through PPP to address the medical concerns of this crisis.There is no room for complacency. The public’s adherence to self-isolate is extremely critical. Also, a combination of health responses, larger public discipline and timely identification of vulnerability, both relating to health care and the economy, is vital in dealing with the challenges thrown up by the spread of the disease.On the economic front, while companies have been requested not to retrench employees, we must also focus on the unorganised sector, where daily wage earners will be severely affected. A methodology to directly transfer money into their accounts is critical. Industry has been an active participant in supporting the government in collecting and submitting data and analysing the impact of Covid-19 across sectors and the country at large. In particular, the Federation of Indian Chambers of Commerce and Industry (FICCI) has developed a guide for organisations based on best practices globally. A survey conducted by FICCI shows that there has been a major impact on companies even in the early stages of the crisis. Hence, going forward, with containment measures, it is important to work on a national reconstruction plan to address the damage to the economy.Over the past few quarters, the Indian economy has experienced a significant slowdown, and is in serious danger of recording growth of below 4% in the coming quarters. To make matters worse, the pandemic has severely impacted efforts that were being made towards economic recovery and has derailed several significant sectors — tourism, hospitality, aviation, financial markets, manufacturing and information technology. There is an urgent need to address the pain points of the industry that could help minimise the impact on economy in general, and Indian businesses in particular. Indisputably, this calls for a combination of monetary, fiscal and financial market measures.The role of the task force constituted by the PM and led by finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman will be pivotal in framing a national reconstruction plan.The foremost requirement in the rebuilding exercise is to relax the mandatory filing norms and defer/waive the interest payment and tax liabilities of the companies impacted heavily by the outbreak. Additionally, maintaining liquidity at surplus levels and special liquidity support for companies, non-banking financial companies and banks that come under strain due to the intensifying risk aversion in the financial markets or due to large demand shock will also be crucial.All payments towards the service of principal, interest and taxes should be deferred by two quarters at this point. These two quarters should not be considered for the calculation of non-performing assets.As the industry body, several recommendations are being submitted by FICCI to the government to consider including as part of this exercise. In crisis resolution, it is important to look for a silver lining. We must look for potential opportunities even now. Businesses including pharmaceuticals, chemicals, solar power, electric vehicles are facing disruption in supply chains due to the impact of the virus in China. A concerted strategy must be developed for them along with special considerations for manufacturing critical items in the health care sector.At one end, social distancing, work-from-home and public curfews are keeping people apart. Yet, in innumerable ways, they are bringing the world’s largest democracy together as a collective force. In response to the PM’s address, several people and organisations have come forward to help the vulnerable; some by reducing their salaries, others by paying wages to their staff and supporting workers during self-quarantine. There is a long list of sacrifices being made. We need to get into mission-mode to defeat the spread of Covid-19 and build a new, stronger and healthier India. Together, let’s make this happen.Sangita Reddy is joint managing director, Apollo Hospitals Group and president, FICCIThe views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/needed-a-national-economic-recovery-plan/story-ic2AHeNtEJyxj9Kkqzo24H.html
24-03-2020||News||A step-by-step road map to battle Covid-19 | Opinion||As the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) spreads rapidly across the world and India, and health care systems are being brought down to their knees, the general sense is that social distancing (SD) will contain the virus. But the evidence shows that in India, SD may not produce the results we want. At the moment, the educated understand SD, but those who lack the requisite educational background and belong to the marginalised segments are unable to grasp its importance and practice it. This is why we need to go beyond SD. The advice coming from China, Italy and other affected countries, processed and packaged by epidemiologists and data scientists, has led authorities to prepare for the worst-possible situation. Moving rapidly, they have instituted a level of prevention we have never seen earlier in health care. Bear in mind that India is a country where primary care and preventive medicine has always been inadequate. Let’s first critically examine the ground reality before we assume we are on the right track, as the stakes are high and failure is potential devastation. Here are the challenges. One, while SD will go down as the phrase of the decade, we are still not sure about the extent of SD needed to create the desired effect. What is the threshold that humans have to be kept away from each other to stem the spread? Is shutting down schools, offices and malls enough? If you walk around, you will see that people continue to mingle at uncomfortably close levels. This happened even during the janata (people) curfew on Sunday. Social distancing is difficult to implement among the poor where masks, sanitisers and any duration of isolation is a pipe dream, and home/community over-crowding is a way of existence. Two, what is the duration for which SD needs to be maintained? The answer changes based on the information of the spread coming daily, which is a function of how successfully SD was done and testing. If SD is successfully done, the disease will be curtailed, and if done half-heartedly, SD will not produce positive results.Three, there is evidence to show that Covid-19 maximally impacts the elderly and those with chronic diseases, but the spread in various socio-economic strata, especially the poor, does not appear to be defined. In India, this is our nightmare with similar terrors such as tuberculosis, malaria and dengue being marginally controlled at best due to overcrowding and poverty. We do not have a great track record of controlling infectious diseases.Four, we also do not have enough kits in the country (or anywhere in the world) to find the true disease denominator. With a 1.3-billion population, a policy of “limited utilitarian testing” has been recommended, which is changing rapidly. The disadvantage of the policy is that we are not only undermining the information we need to define this pandemic’s penetration and nature in our country, but also isolating people who may not have the disease.Five, we have a heterogeneous and ill-defined health care system that varies in infrastructure, skills, and economic strength. Nursing homes, small hospitals, government hospitals and corporate hospitals are dissimilar in their services and quality, a major factor impeding planning in a pandemic such as this — we have to factor this in the planning process. And six, caring for sick in-patients is by far the weakest link in managing the disease. Infrastructure, health care personnel and personal protective equipment (PPE) are the three pillars of management in the in-patient setting. If we reach the stage for massive deployment of health care, there is negligible isolation infrastructure, no comprehensive health care personnel plan for deployment and attrition, and not enough PPE available. An intact health care community is imperative to tackling the crisis, and without PPE this is an impossible task. What are the measures we need to take to get the PPE train in order and have Covid-19 centres that can deliver safe and quality services? Radical measures include ramping up PPE production and supply. Managing Covid-19 centres, due to the need for trained health care personnel, PPE and high infectivity are more challenging than running even the best of hospitals. In the backdrop of this unprecedented worldwide crisis, here is what is necessary. The first is a central PPE distribution system with military precision and implementation to ensure there is no waste. The second is an emergency PPE law enacted for production, distribution and utilisation. Third, as drugs and vaccines develop for this infection, a similar strategy needs to be followed to ensure they get to those who actually need it. Fourth, Covid-19 centres must be audited and approved by an external team of experts to ensure no short-cuts for personnel/PPE have been taken. Fifth, the judicious use of all resources to plan for the long haul, as the epidemic may stretch for weeks as in other countries — we are seeing burn-out in Covid-19 facilities worldwide. Sixth, the system has to allow patients with non-Covid-19 issues to be taken care of without the risk of cross-infectivity. And seventh, there is an urgent need to create an ombudsman for Covid-19 preparations. The ombudsman must be empowered and supported by the government and people alike.The time to move is now like never before.Ravindra M Mehta is the chief of pulmonary and critical care medicine at Apollo Hospitals, Bangalore.The views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/a-step-by-step-road-map-to-battle-covid-19/story-o96R3HbWqjnJmW6lcXlitN.html
