25-03-2020||News||Covid-19: An emergency economic manifesto||India is now in a lockdown. Whether this lockdown saves us from the dangers of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) or not is a question that will be answered in the future. But there is absolutely no doubt that the economy is suffering, and will continue to suffer enormously, putting millions of Indians in serious danger. The urgent and immediate task for the next 21 days is to ensure that all citizens are saved from hunger and destitution. Doing this right will require the Indian State to spearhead a relief effort that does much more than allocate budgets and offer stimulus packages. It will need to effectively coordinate and manage, at a minimum, the movement of people, the movement of food, and the movement of funds and schemes. In the next 21 days, our administrative machinery will face its biggest test yet. It will need to improve Centre-state coordination and ensure speedy, decentralised administration, two things that the Indian State is notorious for failing at. To respond, the State must focus its capacities in at least four critical arenas.First, managing the movement of people. Images of hundreds of thousands of workers stranded at bus stands and walking home have dominated the news this week. When India closed its international borders, Indians around the world were given two to three days to make their way back home. However, Indians living in India were not offered this luxury. Even before Tuesday’s lockdown announcement, states had begun closing their borders and the railways, too, shut down with no prior warning or notice. The first thing that the Centre needs to do is to set up a central coordination hub that connects all inter-state bus terminals to identify locations that passengers need to be taken to, and work with state governments to deploy special fleets of buses to take people back to their homes. This will also require careful management and coordination between states so that information is shared widely and movement is managed in a way that avoids overcrowding and ensures safe passage. A national helpline needs to be set up immediately to direct passengers and governments on where to deploy buses. In addition, while passengers wait, state governments must make immediate arrangements for the provision of temporary shelter and food at these sites. Some state governments, such as Uttarakhand, have already begun this process. This must be extended across all major cities in India.Second the movement of food. In the days to come, the much-maligned Public Distribution System (PDS) is going to be the lifeline for most Indians. Many state governments have already expanded access to PDS and the Centre is likely to extend this across the country. The good news is that the government has a large buffer stock of food grains and adequate stock of pulses at its disposal. However, rations will need to be moved from the centrally-managed Food Corporation of India (FCI) godowns to states, districts and onward to ration stores. It is likely that food needs will vary district by district. Thus, states will have to urgently develop agile inventory management systems; and direct chains of communication between districts, states and the Centre will have to be established to ensure supplies reach where they are needed. Over the years, some states like Chhattisgarh have developed sophisticated inventory management and tracking systems. They can take the lead in coordinating this at the national level. At the distribution end, efforts are already underway to remove hurdles to access such as biometric authentication and other paper work. The PDS now needs to move to a demand based approach, similar to MGNREGS where any resident who approaches the PDS is given a specified quota of wheat/ rice and pulses.Third, the procurement and supply chains for agricultural commodities, especially fresh produce need to be strengthened. The lockdown has placed agricultural markets across the country in a crisis. Given the imminent economic uncertainties, traders and wholesalers are nervous about buying and mandis are shutting down, leaving farmers and traders with nowhere to sell. In this context, the government needs to reopen and reassure both buyers and sellers in critical commodity markets. At a minimum, this will need three urgent steps. First, expand government procurement of fresh produce through state marketing federations, cooperatives and farmer producer organisations, wherever possible. The excess fresh produce can be deployed for use at the district level for expanded midday meals and other food related schemes being implemented in states. Second, open credit lines to traders and buyers, remove all border restrictions on movement, and ensure that non-payment of Agricultural Produce Market Committees fees and cesses do not impede mobility during mandi closures. Third, rather than closing mandis, adapt them to ensure social distancing and safe transfer, handling and storage, especially during the peak wheat procurement season coming up.Finally, movement of schemes and money. Our social protection administration is notorious for its one-size-fits-all approach and administrative red tape that makes spending at the frontlines in accordance with felt needs difficult. The current crisis calls for an expansion of current schemes like the midday meals, ICDS-based supplementary nutrition and pensions. But states have varied levels of implementation capacity and are best positioned to determine which scheme can be deployed effectively to reach the most number of people at speed. So rather than direct state governments to follow a uniform approach, the Centre must create an untied pool of funding, by temporarily bundling its schemes into a core basket of funds that states can draw on and adapt according to their needs. States have already taken the lead in announcing state-specific relief packages. They are also at the forefront of implementation. A flexible mechanism of funding will ensure states are able to deploy resources in ways that play to their strengths and ensure that support reaches citizens at speed.Responding to the coronavirus crisis requires careful communication and a coordinated approach across all levels of administration. At this point, however, the loudest message that has been delivered seems to be about complete enforcement of the lockdown, and the need for uniform measures. But now, more than ever, India needs uniform outcomes, not uniform measures. Indeed, if we are to have any chance at all, we will need more agility, adaptation and flexibility in our implementation of emergency response and relief in the coming days and weeks. Command and control will not work for such a highly distributed and dynamic disease. And a national lockdown cannot be sustained without coordinated movement. The Indian State needs to step up to the challenge for its people and for safeguarding their future.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/covid-19-an-emergency-economic-manifesto/story-8GFWu7HWJJqPHIpYCsHL5M.html
25-03-2020||News||India has a short window to win the war against Covid-19 | Opinion||The coronavirus pandemic (Covid-19) has already taken a toll on people’s health care across the world. Forty years ago, the world witnessed the Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome (AIDS) pandemic that killed 40 million people and left another 30 million HIV+. While Africa bore the maximum brunt of the pandemic then, the epicentre for Covid-19 appears to be the rich nations of western Europe and the United States (US). Initially, India’s response to Covid-19 was quick. The government identified the risk in allowing people from China to enter the country, and adopted quarantine procedures for those who were evacuated from Wuhan and other cities in China, and later from Iran and Italy. India could minimise the initial impact because of these timely steps.However, what followed later was a large influx of people (estimated around two to two-and-a-half million), including students, tourists, pilgrims and residents from India, who returned to the country between January and March 2020 until the borders were closed to international traffic on March 21. They returned from various international destinations and proceeded to Delhi, Mumbai, Bangalore, Hyderabad and airports in northern Kerala, among other places.The government introduced thermal screening procedures for those coming from abroad, while others who were asymptomatic or not detected by thermal scanners were allowed entry with an advisory to stay at home and observe quarantine procedures. But many did not follow it strictly. In the intervening period, they have travelled within the country, met people, participated in social functions and infected a large number of people. The rising infections in the last few weeks are mainly reported from among this section of the population and their contacts. The government has done a fine job of sharing the details of incoming passengers with the state governments and district administrations. But how effectively each of them was followed up on and counselled to stay at home is not clear. Some state governments have now started monitoring these cases but that was only after they tested positive. Critical time was lost in enforcing the quarantine instructions until the “janata curfew” (people’s curfew) and the subsequent lockdown in high-prevalence districts started taking effect.The prime minister has now announced an extended lockdown for 21 days which is very timely. It will provide time and a window of opportunity for the central and state governments to mount an intensified response within a short period of identifying people who returned from abroad and their families and testing them. This testing load is bound to be large and the present testing arrangements will be stretched to their full capacity. The testing procedures until now are built around viral load testing by taking throat swabs. The time taken for the test results is between three to five days. The tests are costly and can be carried out only in specialist institutions.The key to scale-up testing in a large population is to introduce tests that can give results the same day to enable treatment at an early stage of infection. Such tests are based on detecting antibodies in the infected person. Antibody tests are generally more affordable both for patients and government agencies. In the case of HIV/AIDS, the entire testing programme was centred around making available rapid testing to check HIV status. In a short period of time, a large number of HIV positive persons were identified for providing anti- retroviral treatment (ART) and AIDS-related mortality was substantially reduced.This is an opportune time for the government to look for rapid antibody testing for Covid-19 for both symptomatic and asymptomatic travellers and their close contacts. South Korea and Singapore effectively used rapid testing to identify positive cases who were quarantined and followed up on. The United States Food and Drug Administration has recently approved a rapid test for Covid-19. India has the technological capability to produce a high-quality rapid test quickly. In the short-term, the government can import rapid test kits and use them in the testing programmes. This will help in scaling up testing facilities in health care institutions right up to the district level and take the pressure off specialist institutions and laboratories. The battle for control of Covid-19 can be won if the new infection rates can be brought down substantially in the next two to three weeks. And providing testing and treatment facilities to those who are at risk is the key to success. We should not make the mistakes some European countries made in not responding rapidly enough. It will prove to be unaffordable in the Indian context.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/india-has-a-short-window-to-win-the-war-against-covid-19-opinion/story-EnJHb7CgZwOLnDeHJsfAAK.html
25-03-2020||News||Include the Opposition in executive decision-making | Opinion||With Prime Minister Narendra Modi announcing a lockdown for three weeks, if there ever was a time for the nation to come together as one, it is now. If there ever was a time for the political class to stand together as one, it is now. If there ever was a time for ideological disputations to be put on hold, it is now. Why?The Covid-19 challenge in its many dimensions — medical, economic and social — is potentially the greatest that the country has faced since Independence. It requires, above all, the unity and support of all sections of society to see through what is likely to be a period of enormous disruption and hardship. It would be catastrophic for people to witness a divided and bickering political class seeking to score points.There is no doubt that Prime Minister Narendra Modi is by far the tallest leader in the country. The people trust him, as demonstrated both in the 2014 and the 2019 elections. His appeal to the people to observe a “janata curfew” (people’s curfew) was largely adhered to; but the spirit of solidarity will have to be shown through the tense weeks and months ahead. Negative political comments and queries will inevitably raise doubts and even controversies that may sap popular motivation to observe government advice and accept the pain of what may be a prolonged lockdown. It is, therefore, essential for the political class to close ranks. Modi and Opposition leaders should reach out to each other so as to make overcoming the Covid-19 challenge a national effort. That would not diminish, but enhance the standing of all political leaders . Parliament has adjourned. That is the right step, for as the country moved towards a lockdown, it would have been inappropriate to let the two Houses continue. However, consultations among national political leaders should continue through video-conferencing. But that is not all. Can we take a leap of imagination and think of Modi associating some Opposition leaders in an executive capacity, not only to gain from their expertise and experience, but also to conclusively show that the steps the government is taking has the backing of the entire political class? That will be a demonstration of national will as nothing else will be.It is evident that the country will have to rely on non-pharmaceutical interventions (NPIs) to stem Covid-19. Realism demands an acceptance that India’s medical support systems cannot be of the same level as those in the advanced countries. There is no doubt that the authorities are taking, and will continue to take, all necessary steps to mitigate shortages. But there may be a time when difficult choices may have to be made at all levels. In such a situation, prudence demands that the political class becomes united also for this contingency. Hence, it is necessary for the tallest leaders of all political parties to make a common appeal to the people for unity and solidarity and scrupulously following government directives. This will boost popular morale. The country has gone through very trying and contentious times recently, owing to ideological differences over controversial laws. The Citizenship (Amendment) Act (CAA) is a case in point. While it is true that the government has explained its rationale, and the law will be tested in the Supreme Court, the fact is that it continues to be seen by the Muslim community as a precursor to the National Register of Citizens (NRC). That has aroused suspicion and fear to such an extent that the Shaheen Bagh sit-in continued for so long. This is not a time to examine if it was justified, but to inculcate confidence that the interests of all will be secured during the coming months. Social harmony has to be maintained. It may come under some strain, and the political class will have to address whatever misgivings may arise. The Covid-19 challenge is obviously more than an administrative one and, hence, with Modi in the forefront, a picture backed by the reality of political cohesion has to be conveyed to the people. That will also help in meeting the great economic burden which society as a whole will have to bear. Modi correctly said that the poorer parts of society may have to bear a disproportionate part of the burden. They will have to be ably assisted. At this time, will Modi consider consulting a wide cross-section of economists to chart a way forward? This should include those wedded to Opposition ideologies so that the people can again see the political class coming together. India’s political class may be tested as never before if difficult scenarios unfold. Let us hope that they come through with flying colours.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/include-the-opposition-in-executive-decision-making-opinion/story-y7mihGuZd4gLH9UOdUZhgJ.html
