30-03-2020||News||How to sustain a long lockdown||By now, we have all seen the heart-wrenching images of migrants in Delhi scrambling to board buses out of the city. If even a small number of them were infected with the coronavirus, and infected others in overcrowded transportation services or communities where they return, the positive impact of any lockdown on slowing the spread of the virus may have been subverted. But let us not vilify the poorest and most vulnerable in our society, who were doing what they could to survive. Indeed, a lockdown was needed to arrest the spread of coronavirus, lest our creaky health system gets overwhelmed. The problem lies not in the earnestness with which the government has acted to combat the crisis, but with the advice it is being given. Popular perception about how to combat the virus stems from a set of epidemiological models, often built on spotty data and strong assumptions, predicting doomsday scenarios. This has led to, for instance, Johns Hopkins University clarifying that a widely- circulated study by some of its researchers that predicted up to 240 million Indians getting infected was not its opinion. Even if these studies were not credible, the damage was done in terms of political pressure, as the focus shifted to aggressive “social distancing” measures.The mathematics of this idea is straightforward and appealing. If people in a household have little to no contact with those outside, then the virus has little chance to spread. But what is lost in this simplistic idea, and the egregiously poor use of data, is the “sustainability” of any social distancing or lockdown measure.We have to ask ourselves whether the manner in which we’ve locked down in India (which may continue beyond three weeks, although the government has said there are no plans of doing this) is amenable to long-term implementation without serious suffering or non-compliance.In a lockdown, we are asking individuals to sacrifice for the greater good. Indeed, Prime Minister Narendra Modi framed the lockdown in precisely these terms in his nationwide address. In the study of political economy, we refer to this as one type of “collective action problem”.In this type of collective action problem, each person must pay a certain cost (restricting essential items, no outside interaction) so that society, as a whole, can benefit in the future. While policing and social shaming keeps some people indoors, ultimately, the success of a lockdown is predicated upon the willingness of the people to abide by the restrictions. This willingness is a function of the extent to which people have the luxury of having a long-term view on well-being, and the magnitude of costs being imposed on individuals today.This is where things went awry. The lockdown was imposed in a fashion that was unsustainable for the poorest populations in India.First, a significant amount of social science research shows that the poor, who live hand-to-mouth, often do not have the luxury to care about the future. Recent work by Anandi Mani and co-authors provides compelling evidence that the poor in India are so consumed by day-to-day survival that they rarely have the psychological space to think about the future. Second, the costs imposed on the poor, with no income and benefits and limited goods in markets, were severe. This was compounded by the fact that the kind of risk mitigation systems of relying on family and friends, or promising to pay later, that had worked during demonetisation for the poor, were no longer feasible (especially for migrants).There is still time to adjust and calibrate policy. But to do so, we must stop seeing economic costs and the lockdown to prevent disease as trade-offs. If certain economic conditions are not met at the individual level, a longer lockdown is unsustainable.With this in mind, here are a few suggestions. First, let’s stop referring to patchwork data or what China and the US did or did not do; India needs a solution that fits its political economy context. As a much poorer country, we must provide significant support materially and in sustenance to the most vulnerable people, not just because it is the ethical thing to do, but because failing to do so risks setting off further negative unintended consequences and compromising the lockdown. Second, we need to understand which activities are most likely to exacerbate spread. One common feature in pandemics is the role of “super-spreaders” like “patient 31” in South Korea who spread the disease to a large number of people in very public places. Many of us have heard that a person infected with the coronavirus will infect one to three others on average, but this hides significant variations. Most will infect few or none, but super-spreaders have a disproportionate “multiplier effect” as those infected by a super-spreader will then go on to infect others. This is why as we seek to regularise supply chains and perhaps reduce restrictions in the future, big crowds such as the ones seen in Delhi and Mumbai need to be avoided at all costs for the next few months.Finally, we need to standardise relief efforts across India as much as possible. Charitable and state-specific responses are highly uneven, generating incentives for the most vulnerable populations to move when sufficient benefits are not given. A failure to provide equal relief to India’s hinterland risks triggering another mass movement like we’ve seen in Delhi.Looking around the world, it is becoming clear that some lockdown measures will be required for months into the future to prevent the spread of the coronavirus. We must begin crafting a policy, taking our political economy seriously, to sustain such a long shutdown.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/how-to-sustain-a-long-lockdown/story-MmGT3lKmMKlhyzGUDA7w6K.html
30-03-2020||News||Covid-19: Securing the present and the future||Politicians are elected because they campaign in poetry, but voters don’t always account for the fact that elected representatives must govern in prose. That chasm between the promise and the delivery becomes more dangerous at times like these. Just like wartime generals have to be different from peacetime generals, crisis-time politicians have to step up from being normal-time politicians.In times of the coronavirus pandemic (Covid-19), we need our leaders to assume new responsibilities. They must first educate themselves about the crisis by listening to, and learning from, experts. Then, they must communicate what they know to us, without creating undue alarm. They must be honest enough to admit their fallibility. They need to be inspirational enough to command our cooperation. They need to lobby for their own constituencies to get a share of central and shared resources. They need to transparently prioritise these resources for those who may need them most. They have to be frontline responders.Simultaneously, they also have to safeguard the future. History has shown us that in crises, a centralised, and unaccountable leadership can emerge. Unless carefully managed, this can lead to a breakdown of trust between the government and the public. Other politicians must then evolve into system leaders. They must safeguard democracy itself; to protect against a creeping authoritarianism that is hard to push back when normalcy returns. To do so, they must demonstrate the relevance of empowered local government.Is it even possible for our politicians to step up to the plate? Will we allow them to, even if they wanted to try? Can voters respect the difficult situation their representatives find themselves in? Can we give them space to think ahead, even as they try to contain the immediate calamity?Benjamin Disraeli once said, “The world is weary of statesmen whom democracy has degraded into politicians”.One reason for such a deterioration is that voters expect too much from representatives. Strangely, we barely hold them accountable for their primary duty as lawmakers. We don’t always appreciate that good laws make for good societies, and that our representatives have the constitutional duty to help craft those good laws. Instead, most people expect their elected representatives to be at their beck and call, to provide patronage and brokerage, to help their communities through small but urgent hardships. It is a 24/7, largely thankless job for most politicians.I saw this personally in my husband, Nandan Nilekani’s, unsuccessful Lok Sabha campaign. He would imagine big possibilities for the country, which would also make people’s lives much better. Most voters, though, asked about things that affected them in the here and now — whether a community hall could be built, or the speed bumps could be removed outside their gates or if the stray dogs would be taken care of.Inevitably, voters feel frustrated when all these requests cannot be met. Sometimes, politicians give up on this impossible quest and ride roughshod over their constituencies. It is not too surprising that we have politicians across all parties with criminal records, who keep getting re-elected, even from prison. Many have their troops of men to fulfil some of the basic wishes of the voters, keep things in check, and appear to be locally effective.Of course, we still have several wonderful politicians. They work as hard as they possibly can to serve their people, help pass good laws, represent the interests of their constituents at every opportunity and also reach out and communicate with their voters.We must help their tribe increase, especially now. American theologian and author James Freeman Clarke observed: “The difference between a politician and a statesman is that a politician thinks about the next election while the statesman thinks about the next generation.”There are wonderful instances from India’s democratic history where India’s statesmen have done just that. Former Prime Minister (PM) Jawaharlal Nehru’s government built the nation’s core infrastructure. PV Narasimha Rao’s government opened up the economy for next-generation entrepreneurs. Atal Bihari Vajpayee’s government filled critical gaps in the education system, and developed the nation’s roads and telecommunication networks for today’s digital or migrant citizen. Their eyes were pinned to the horizon.The pandemic and the economic downturn that accompanies it offer a creative opportunity for politicians to become statesmen. As poet Muhammad Iqbal wrote, “Nations are born in the hearts of poets – they prosper and die in the hands of politicians.” If our politicians focus on the word “prosper”, and if voters allow politicians to do what statesmen must, perhaps this unprecedented crisis would serve to strengthen our democracy for future generations, and not to undermine it. All over the world, people are looking to their leaders to guide them through the double whammy they are facing: The Covid-19 pandemic and the unfolding economic crisis. This has been probably the most challenging time for politicians since the World War II. They need our empathy and our forbearance.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/covid-19-securing-the-present-and-the-future/story-o1JmO7RnEV4pNsXwDPmmkL.html
30-03-2020||News||Can India beat the coronavirus pandemic?||In these difficult times, let me start on a positive note. Tamanna Ali of Bareilly was pregnant. She was due to deliver any day, but her husband was stuck in Noida. Due to the complete lockdown, there was no way he could reach his wife. There was no one who could even take Tamanna to the hospital.As soon as Hindustan correspondent, Avinash Pandey, came to know of her struggle, he informed the SSP of Bareilly about it. The SSP spoke to the Noida Police commissioner who, in turn, spoke to the additional commissioner of police, Noida, Ranvijay Singh, and asked him to help this couple. Singh arranged a vehicle for Tamanna’s husband. The Noida police also ensured that the vehicle was not stopped en route to Bareilly. A little after Anees Khan reached his wife, she delivered a baby boy. The couple named their son Ranvijay Khan after the police officer who helped them in their hour of need. Hopefully, when he grows up, Ranvijay Khan will carry forward the Indian tradition of communal harmony and devotion to duty.It is heartening that many people and organisations in India have come together with the government to tackle the coronavirus challenge. With each passing day, the bonds of cooperation are becoming stronger. But a lot more need to be done on this front.Let us first examine the international context.In Britain, the prime minister, the health secretary and the heir to the throne, Prince Charles, have tested positive for the coronavirus. It was only recently that the British prime minister was heard saying in a press conference that the coronavirus disease, Covid-19, was being presented in an exaggerated manner. This careless attitude has jeopardised not only his life that those of his country’s citizens. This mighty empire on which the sun never set has been laid low, as everyone else, by an even mightier virus.The United States (US) too is in panic mode. True to form, President Donald Trump did not take this disaster seriously in the initial phase. That’s why the US is now caught in an unprecedented crisis. It’s surprising that the US, the most powerful country globally, with its cutting-edge technology and medicine, was caught short when the disaster hit. New York, one of the finest cities in the world, has been among the worst affected. Its governor is unhappy with the Trump administration’s handling of the situation. The kind of political squabbling on display in the US shows that community spirit and harmony are built on very shaky foundations. It is true that the severity of any epidemic cannot be predicted, but the US, with its economic might and scientific talent, has proved unimaginably inadequate in its ability to mobilise medical and health services for a stricken population.The situation is worse in Europe. In Spain and Italy, the death toll is increasing steadily. There is a shortage of coffins for those who have died of the virus. It’s understandable that these countries are unhappy with China, which cannot entirely escape some of the blame for not being more transparent when the virus surfaced in Wuhan. It would seem now that Trump may blame China to cover up his own shortcomings in the upcoming presidential elections.China has also not held back from needling the US on this issue. As the US administration struggles to save lives, Chinese President Xi Jinping has been offering to donate ventilators to European countries. Clearly, he wants to win their support.Turn to the domestic context now. Some people allege that the national lockdown does not amount to a comprehensive solution. What was the option at a time when it is impossible to tell who may have the infection and yet be asymptomatic? It is alarming to see photographs of tempos and trucks, people packed like sardines in them, transporting them back to their homes in villages. This is the way how the virus will spread to rural areas, which have very poor health care facilities.If we succeed in containing or even reducing the impact of the community transmission stage of this infection, India will go down in the annals of medical history. The time has come for Indian society to realise its responsibilities and adopt social distancing for the greater common good. We need to lend a helping hand to the poor as much as we can. This is our tradition. No government can tackle such a crisis of this magnitude just through money and welfare schemes. We must all rise to the occasion.Shashi Shekhar is editor-in-chief, HindustanThe views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/can-india-beat-the-coronavirus-pandemic/story-uzFxsaLoaP8hYBh0nOx94I.html
