31-03-2020||News||Use epidemiology as a tool to fight Covid-19 | Opinion||A highly placed clinical specialist recently said that epidemiologists are busy projecting numbers because that is what they do. This is a misleading assumption. Epidemiologists aim to prevent and control epidemics of diseases. Epidemiology, as our doctoral mentor Dr Roger Detels defines it, is the basic science of public health, because it describes the relationship of health or disease with other health-related factors, like human pathogens, in human populations. The crisis caused by the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) is a good example to show that, if the epidemiology is not properly understood, it can bring lethal consequences.Countering the adverse impacts of Covid-19 requires two types of measures: Containment and mitigation.Consider, for example, the absolute burden of cases as a big balloon. Containment, in this case, refers to the amount of air added into the ballon, while mitigation means controlling the speed at which the air is filled into it. To prevent strain on the public health system with limited resources, we aim to ensure that the balloon is never full.Containment ensures that we detect everyone infected with Covid-19. Once they are identified, they are isolated, and their contacts are identified and monitored properly. This process is referred to as quarantine, and after the passage of the quarantine period, they are not likely to be infectious.Mitigation refers to the slowing down of the virus’ spread in the community by making it difficult for it to attack susceptible populations. It is important to underline that both, the containment and mitigation processes are equally necessary to ensure the balloon of disease does not burst.For effective mitigation, Prime Minister Narendra Modi appealed to Indians to stay at their homes for the next 21 days. This lockdown has the potential to phenomenally alter the course of the pandemic, by effectively mitigating it.Our next challenge is the containment of Covid-19. India’s inability to effectively detect and isolate cases hinders this process. Instead, we need what we call syndromic approach. Consider every case having fever, cough, tiredness or difficulty in breathing as that of Covid-19. This can, with or without testing, limit the virus’ spread.Surveillance systems have thrown varied results across the country. While some states like Maharashtra and Kerala have identified and reported the maximum number of cases, others have been late in their response. Tracking and quarantining is a function of a good surveillance system. The national task force on Covid-19 that reviews ‪containment measures daily should encourage states to get more proactive.Despite India’s weak health care system, we are hopeful to keep the balloon from bursting because of the proactive steps the government has taken so far. Some areas, however, still require improvement. While most experts are calling in for intensive testing, we should not wait until the test results are available.We should immediately implement complementary detection methods such as the syndromic approach to identify the most probable cases and isolate them. We are a country with software prowess, and that should help us start and scale mobile apps to track cases and their contacts, and map them. Providing personal protective equipment and supporting the psychological well-being of health workers is a defining factor in tackling this. The PM needs to personally review these measures to lift and sustain the morale of frontline health workers. Implementing mass cough and fever screening using thermal temperature scanners or telephonic/app-based self-reporting will help expand containment measures.The crisis allows us to boost the critical care bed capacity, and improve supplies and logistics. Though the government has allocated Rs 15,000 crore to address these issues, we need additional allocations to incentivise and hire health professionals. Finally, measures should be taken on a war footing to disinfect transport carriers, streets and manage hazardous waste.We are dealing with a complex challenge that requires innovation and perseverance. But we are at our best when we are challenged. Covid-19 has challenged India’s resolve and capacity. While some of the experts predict a catastrophic end to the crisis, others think that flattening the curve is an urban myth. The number crunchers’ efforts matter, but as epidemiologists, our job requires us to offer solutions, not merely numbers.We are interested in understanding herd immunity, in which an infection provides immunity for large groups of people. The virus is smart, but we are smarter and younger. The population dynamics do not support higher casualties in India as India’s mean age is in the 20s, with only 8% of Indians aged 60 and above. If we are to believe some of the recent reports suggesting that the virus cannot flourish in high temperatures, the soaring sun in the coming summer is good news. This, however, doesn’t absolve us of the responsibility of strengthening public health surveillance. The virus won’t go away, and many more of these may come. It is time we use the strength of epidemiology to take public health-related decisions.Giridhara R Babu is professor and head of life-course epidemiology at PHFI, Bengaluru. Tarun Bhatnagar is a scientist with ICMR-NIE, ChennaiThe views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/use-epidemiology-as-a-means-to-fight-covid-19-opinion/story-NxookvRCalzQHeMK6ZS4DK.html
31-03-2020||News||Can India be an outlier in the spread of Covid-19? | Opinion||The coronavirus disease (Covid-19) first appeared in the Wuhan district of Hubei province of China in early December 2019. The first case was reported by China on January 7, 2020, and this aroused variable interest worldwide, with most countries initially ignoring the novel infection. Fortunately, Indian health authorities sensed the danger, largely because the country has always been alert to new infections. The scientific think-tank at the Indian council of Medical Research (ICMR) became active immediately and the first laboratory confirmed case was identified at ICMR’s National Institute of Virology (NIV), Pune, sometime towards the end of January. A look at the world Covid meter shows that there is striking variation in mortality rates across countries, ranging from 0.2% to 15% depending on age, the smoking habit and pre-existing co-morbidities. It may be too early to tell, but in general, countries in the Northern hemisphere have faced the maximum brunt, and those in the Southern hemisphere (and those located proximate to the Equator) have so far escaped high infection numbers.Three factors seem to be playing a role in the observed lower numbers in India with almost zero occurrence of severe Covid-19 cases (until now). First, broad-based immunity in the population due to the extensive microbial load. The Indian population has been exposed to a vast variety of pathogens, including bacteria, parasites and viruses leading to the generation of broad specific memory T-cells in the system, ready to attack additional foreign invaders. For example, the three main killers of Tuberculosis, HIV and Malaria have plagued India, Africa and several countries in the Southern hemisphere much more than the European and North American nations. In the context of CoV-2 coronavirus, the beneficial role of chloroquine and hydroxychloroquine has been much talked about and debated, while there has already been an extensive usage of this drug at the community level in India -- this too may ultimately prove beneficial. Second, epigenetic factors that include environment and food habits may also play a beneficial role for countries such as India; much literature is already available in Ayurveda and other Indian systems of medicine on the definitive beneficial effects of Indian spices in augmenting immunity. Third, and most important, is the possible role of immune response genes in the Indian population. These genes are collectively referred to as comprising the human leucocyte antigen system or simply, the HLA genes. Their main biological function is to present invading foreign antigens to the immune systems, since T-cells, which act as the body’s soldiers come into play only when pathogens are presented to them in a more formal manner in association with HLA genes. In other words, the pathogen must first attach to compounds created by HLA genes before T-Cells attack it. If no such compounds are produced by the body, then the T-Cells are ineffective. As a consequence of the microbial load, the Indian population possesses a high genetic diversity of HLA, much more extensive than Caucasian populations. Indeed, studies by the author at the All India Institute of Medical Sciences, New Delhi, over several decades revealed the presence of several novel HLA genes and their alleles in the Indian population, most of which do not occur in other ethnic groups. Such genetic diversity of HLA could affect viral fitness. The question then is: Why should genetic variation in HLA genes play a role in the Covid-19 progression? One hint comes from earlier studies in related viral diseases: Certain genetic variants of the HLA system provide protection against such viruses, while others increase genetic susceptibility to them. Another source of indirect evidence comes from recent clinical Covid-19 studies which showed that rapid T-cell response appears to be crucial for recovery from Covid-19, and reduced functional diversity of T cells in peripheral blood could predict progression of Covid-19.The big question is: Does this give Indians a better chance at fighting the virus effectively? From the epidemiological data so far, it seems so (although much more extensive research is required). However, it is important for us to keep viral loads in check and below the threshold levels. In this context, the complete lockdown announced by the government is highly timely and most desirable. It is imperative that the virus replication cycle gets disrupted as early as possible before it gains numbers that may become difficult for us to counter. To this end, the images of crowds gathering in several places whether for panic buying or interstate movements are disturbing. They could jeopardise all efforts and mitigate whatever natural advantages we enjoy. The State must act fast to enforce the lockdown, even forcibly if necessary. India may be the outlier in fighting the coronavirus infection and succeed in keeping the overall numbers lower than the rest of the world with minimal deaths.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/can-india-be-an-outlier-in-the-spread-of-covid-19/story-OS2c161BQhD7Ne33x26h0L.html
31-03-2020||News||India must act now to protect its health workers | Opinion||As we congratulate the government for its herculean efforts to stop the spread of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), through the countrywide lockdown and complete social distancing, there is another urgent issue which has arisen. While social distancing and the lockdown will buy us time, there is the inevitable disease escape, which is likely to happen imminently, and a community-to-community spread which will bring increasing numbers of sick people to our hospitals. If that happens, we will have to answer the big question: Is our health care system ready to take care of them?The pillars of hospital and outpatient management of Covid-19 are the 3 Ps —place, provider, and personal protective equipment (PPE). The health care provider and PPE are closely intertwined — a relationship that has to be understood to fight the virus. The most precious resource is the health care provider. India has a shortage of health care providers and has also been reeling under a nursing shortage for years. If not protected by PPE, health care providers have a very high chance of getting infected, which will render them invalid, forcing them to drop out of the workforce. They then may require treatment and care, and they may die, as happened to the doctor in Wuhan, who was among the first ones to raise the alarm about coronavirus but who succumbed to the disease. Also, you cannot send infected health professionals back to their families as they will infect them and perpetuate the community cycle. Herein lies the crux of the matter, which all administrators and planners must understand.An adequate supply of PPE is the foundation to defeat the virus. What are the measures we need to take to get the PPE supply chain to ensure safe and quality services? Radical measures include both, ramping up PPE production and supply unlike ever before, and ensuring that it reaches hospitals, Covid-19 centres and clinics. On Monday, to its credit, the government announced measures to enhance the procurement of PPEs. But the ground reality in India remains grim. India is ill-equipped in this regard, with hardly any PPE in the system. This has resulted in manufacturing and distribution systems finding themselves overwhelmed with hitherto unprecedented demand which they cannot meet. Hospitals then find it difficult to admit a deluge of sick Covid-19 patients.Here are suggestions to meet the extraordinary PPE demand and dwindling supply:One, an emergency PPE law must be enacted for production, distribution and utilisation. This must be a stringent law and must be implemented appropriately and effectively. In addition, many players are selling PPEs at an enhanced price, and there is uncertain quality control. PPE must be brought under reasonable price control and expedited quality and approval by a nodal review agency with cascading state units.Two, a central PPE distribution system must be implemented with military precision to ensure there is no wilful or inadvertent waste. Transport times are enhanced due to the lockdown, and this is leading to delay in delivery for the end-user. Three, Covid-19 centres must be audited and approved by an external team of experts to ensure there are no short-cuts for PPE/personnel. The current isolation beds are merely cosmetic if they cannot last, at the very least, a month with adequate personnel/PPE.Four, educating public and health care providers about PPEs is imperative. Not every health care provider needs the highest level of PPE, such as the N95 respirators. The workforce must be quickly trained to optimise its use. India already has advanced digital infrastructure in place for this. Educating the public about this is also important. Unnecessary panic had earlier led to the hoarding of N95 masks by people across the country. A call can be made to buy them back from the public to augment the current supply.Five, innovative measures such as mask reuse (with appropriate sterilisation in low-infectivity areas), cloth masks, and bodysuits can be pursued to meet escalating demand. This can buy us some time while production is ramped up. A think-and-do-tank needs to be formed to explore safe alternatives.The sword of Damocles hangs over the heads of health care workers as they prepare to fight on the frontlines against the Covid-19 onslaught. These critical frontline workers are also going through extreme personal anxiety. It is incumbent on the system, administrators and the government to take stock of this and provide some form of relief for them on a war footing. Health care personnel are the most valuable people at the frontlines of this war, caring for patients, ensuring their treatment and containing the spread of the virus. We cannot stop Covid-19 without protecting them. Let there be no ambiguity: We must immediately create all the proper interventions for the safety of our health workers. If we don’t, they may drop out of the workforce in large numbers, as was seen in Spain and Italy. We owe it to them, and to the rest of the country, to win the war against this pandemic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/india-must-act-now-to-protect-its-health-workers/story-idWQ1uyMrnARHc3PH7W86J.html
31-03-2020||News||Covid-19 could fundamentally change India’s political economy||India has announced a 21-day national lockdown, beginning March 25, to prevent the spread of the Covid-19 pandemic in the country. Barring essential services such as food supplies, healthcare, banking, and law enforcement, everything is shut down during this period. This also means that a very large share of India’s 400 million-plus workforce will not be able to access the labour market and make earnings. This unforeseen calamity has the potential to fundamentally change India’s political economy landscape.Even though India has fared badly in terms of generating “good jobs” for a vast majority of its workforce, its informal markets have kept a large section of workers in a low level equilibrium trap of sorts. At no point in time has India imposed restrictions on rural-urban or inter-state mobility of labour, which is not very uncommon in countries in east and south-east Asia. Even unskilled workers travel thousands of kilometres to find employment in India. Working in the informal sector has also limited collective “class action” in favour of a common set of demands, despite having to live with inequality in almost every aspect of life, including the ability to live through illnesses. This is why conventional trade unions have been struggling to have any significant impact on policy or politics for a long time. All of this might change once this crisis is over as, for the first time, this foot-loose and completely unprotected labour has faced a direct hit, inflicted by the state, on the ability to sell its labour power. Even when this crisis is over - and let us hope it’s over sooner rather than later - the memories of this shock, and the economic pain associated with it, will remain entrenched.The Indian economy has changed in many significant ways, especially in the last three “post-reform” decades. Among the most important facets of this transformation has been the movement away from agriculture to non-agricultural sectors. In terms of share in GDP, agriculture now accounts for less than 15% of the total economic output. This figure was 27% in 1990. Agriculture still accounts for a significant share of the workforce though. According to the 2017-18 Periodic Labour Force Survey (PLFS), more than 40% of the workers were employed directly or indirectly in farming. To be sure, these headline numbers on income-employment shares could be misleading. Even in villages and among households employed in agriculture, non-farm incomes are actually a significant and increasing share of overall earnings. This is borne out by household level income data and other methods such as village-based studies. One such example is the one-of-its-kind five-decade-long study of Palanpur village in the Moradabad district of Uttar Pradesh. In their book How Lives Change: Palanpur, India and Development Economics, Himanshu, Peter Lanjouw, and Nicholas Stern use the village level data to show that share of cultivation in total household incomes went down from over 60% in the 1970s to just one-third by 2008-09. The share of non-farm incomes, on the other hand, went up from around 10% to almost 50% during this period. The importance of non-farm work cannot be explained just by its share in total incomes. The ability to migrate and seek non-farm work outside villages has also allowed workers to escape the stigma associated with certain kinds of manual work within one’s own village. For example, upper caste Thakur workers in Palanpur were willing to unload railway wagons in a neighboring town for a living, the kind of work which they would never do in Palanpur, lest it degrade their upper caste social standing. The short point is non-farm work-related migration has not only augmented incomes; it has also opened up new avenues of work for a large number of workers. The closure of this market therefore is a double whammy for the daily wage workers. It needs to be remembered, even with all the migration and informal work, the vast majority of Indians can barely make ends meet. Almost half the total consumption expenditure of average Indians was spent on food items in 2011-12. This share is significantly higher for the bottom half of the population.Because the government did not release the findings of the 2017-18 Consumption Expenditure Survey (CES) by the National Statistical Office (NSO), we do not know what these numbers are today. Such a high share of consumption expenditure on food also means that a large number of workers lead a hand-to-mouth existence in the country, and will find it very difficult to even get two square meals a day if their daily work is disrupted. While India does have a food security program, which is expected to cover two-thirds of the population, making the entitlements portable is still work in progress. This means that short-term migrant workers are not very likely to have access to its benefits. Also, for a migrant worker living outside his home, food is not the only necessary expense. Managing things such as rent payments is an equally big issue in the absence of regular flow of work. Millions of workers must be having a very difficult time at this moment. Anecdotal reports of thousands of workers walking on foot to their homes hundreds, even thousands of kilometers away confirm this. To be sure, it can always be argued that the current economic pain due to the lockdown is not unjustified. After all, if the pandemic starts infecting people at a widespread rate in a country like India, the consequences can be catastrophic. However, what is also true is that there is a fundamental asymmetry in this entire trade off. While the benefits of a lockdown preventing the infection from spreading would equally accrue to everyone, the costs will be disproportionately higher for the poor, who, unlike the better off, have neither the luxury of working from home nor enough of a savings pool to exhaust while not earning. In this case, it could even be said that the disease has been brought home by the rich, as it originated in a foreign country, and the poor had absolutely no role to play in its spread. It also needs to be reiterated that under normal circumstances, the poor are actually more vulnerable to deaths from being ill, as they can neither avail treatment nor afford adequate diets to recover from their ailments. A 2015 story published in the Hindustan Times had quoted research at the All India Institute of Medical Sciences in Delhi to show that 50% of patients with severe head injuries died due to extreme poverty as their families did not have the economic means to ensure adequate diets or nursing facilities. The AIIMS study is not a one-off case. Research based on the India Human Development Survey (IHDS) data shows that the poorest Indians are almost twice as likely to die compared to the richest even when they are healthy. This triples when an illness is involved. There is another way to look at these statistics. For a person belonging to the poorest 20% of the population, the chances of dying increase by a multiple of 1.9 if they are ill, whereas this increases only 1.2 times when the person belongs to the richest 20% of the population.The numbers cited above, which represent the associated probability of dying with and without morbidity, capture the macabre reality of the Indian economy. A very large section of our population has been living a hand-to-mouth existence while hoping they either don’t fall ill or just live through their illnesses when they do.Why have the people accepted living in such harsh conditions? There are two possible reasons. One, never has this crisis manifested itself at the macro level. So there has not been a macro anger or response to it. To give a crude example, one could take the cases of hundreds of poor children dying due to various forms of encephalitis within days in the states of Bihar and Uttar Pradesh. The deaths in such episodes have often reached significantly higher numbers than the number of deaths due to the current pandemic in many countries. However, such instances have not led to macro level agitations demanding better health services at affordable rates for the poor. The second and more important reason is that while the state did little to help the affected in these problems, it did not impose an extra economic burden on the poor by enforcing a lockdown and disrupting the normal economy. This probably created a situation where the individual effort was focused on saving oneself from what are actually macro level problems. Given the asymmetry between costs and benefits of the current lockdown, the poor might actually, for the first time, see the systemic inequalities as a macro level problem and seek recourse from the state. While there is little clarity on when the current crisis will end, and whether or not we will see a second or third wave of the outbreak, such fears will clearly remain. It is not very difficult to argue that a change in policy regime could actually go very far in insulating the poor from the terribly high economic costs of the economic disruption due to such outbreaks in the future. Examples of these could be provisions for increased income/food transfers in such emergencies, significantly augmenting public health infrastructure; both in terms of quantity and quality to protect the poor during such crises, and even ensuring some sort of payment to daily wage workers during other illnesses that prevent them from working.If a political party were to push for such changes, it could actually be pretty successful in mobilising a large section of the poor behind these demands. While the poor have little say in shaping India’s intellectual or public discourse, they do have a significant role in deciding political outcomes. Whether or not this happens will depend on how political parties, both in power and in the Opposition, both national and regional, take up these issues with a clearly defined set of demands and mass outreach. We will see a lot of politicking over governments’ handling of the current crisis both in India and abroad. However, it remains to be seen whether political parties in India decide to use the current pandemic to demand a redrawing of political economy alignments in favour of the poor.(Roshan Kishore is the political economy and data editor of HT, who is currently on a sabbatical at the Centre for the Advanced Study of India, University of Pennsylvania. This piece was first published in CASI’s online journal, India in Transition.)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/covid-19-could-fundamentally-change-india-s-political-economy/story-DgWaagkkxBmB2OokrxORqL.html
