06-02-2020||ANINE-YEAR-OLD girl||Bogey of sedition||Section 124A (sedition) of the IPC is being increasingly used as a tool for the suppression of dissent. This unwelcome trend is being attributed largely to the overzealousness of attention-seeking ‘nationalists’. Last year, about 50 eminent figures, including historian Ramachandra Guha, filmmaker Shyam Benegal and vocalist Shubha Mudgal, had been booked on this charge after they wrote an open letter to the PM voicing their concern over the growing incidents of mob lynching and other hate crimes. The FIR had been registered on the order of a court in Muzaffarpur (Bihar), where a lawyer is well known for entangling VVIPs in litigation. After a nationwide uproar, better sense prevailed and the charges were dropped.These cases often don’t have a leg to stand on in the courtroom as the charges are mostly unsubstantiated and politically motivated. According to the National Crime Records Bureau, the number of sedition cases registered in India rose to 70 in 2018, up from 51 in 2017 and 35 in 2016. Only two of the 18 persons against whom trial was completed in three years (2014-16) were convicted; the rest were discharged or acquitted. The sedition law runs the risk of losing its potency as a deterrent if it’s invoked at the drop of a hat, as if every campus abounds with enemies of the State. It should be used when there is credible and actionable evidence of incitement to violence or disturbance of public peace, not to harass children.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/bogey-of-sedition-36521
06-02-2020||ONE of the clauses of the Punjab Government’s ambitious smart school policy was making English compulsory as the medium of instruction. The step was intended to make school education more equitable for the poor by bridging the yawning socio-economic gap created by the mushrooming and much sought-after swanky ‘English-medium’ schools. However||A step back||Rather, giving the government school students the option of choosing English or Punjabi/Hindi as a medium of instruction only complicates the situation. It is fraught with a set of perils that the Education Department is ill-equipped to handle. The paucity of teachers qualified to teach in the English medium makes it an uphill task. The abysmal scores of proficiency in the English language of children in successive education reports reflects poorly on the government’s efforts to provide for an infrastructure necessary to support the lofty aim. The teacher training programme modules designed to meet this end have not shown the desired results. The promise of rational deployment of staff in rural and far-flung border areas as well as the urban schools remains unmet.Providing nearly 3,000 government schools with smart equipment worth crores of rupees — computers, WiFi, Internet, etc — is not enough to benefit the little ones in achieving the appropriate learning levels. Until complemented by investment in well-qualified staff, the underprivileged children cannot be expected to imbibe the lessons. It will only have the undesirable effect of promoting rote learning. For the tiny tots to acquire language competence so that they can navigate in the multi-lingual globalised world, an ecosystem of bilingual instruction — English and the mother tongue — is essential. Only then will the current inequity marked by two sets of citizens — one empowered by the lingua franca and one not — be addressed.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/a-step-back-36520
