07-02-2020||What’s life-sustaining becomes life-threatening when it gets contaminated and is transfused into an unsuspecting patient. Safe blood transfusion continues to be a major challenge for the healthcare sector in India. Back in 1996||Unsafe transfusion||The petitioners have red-flagged the mushrooming of stand-alone private blood banks which not only provide products of inconsistent quality but also fleece patients with impunity. The gravity of the situation can be gauged from the shocking case in Phagwara, where a blood bank issued HCV-positive blood (infected with hepatitis C virus) to an 85-year-old person. Several blood banks in Punjab’s Doaba region have been under scrutiny in recent years over quality control and pricing issues.The petition has claimed that the number of registered and licensed blood banks in India is abysmally low — less than three per 10 lakh population. Ideally, every district hospital should have a blood bank. However, merely expanding the network of such storage centres is not enough to improve the state of affairs. It’s imperative that each blood bank should have adequate infrastructure and trained manpower. The authorities ought to address the shortage of trained healthcare professionals in the field of transfusion medicine. The feasibility of setting up a separate monitoring body for blood transfusion services under the Union Ministry of Health and Family Welfare should also be explored. Strict enforcement of the licensing norms can help to stem the rot. With precious lives at stake, unscrupulous elements cannot be allowed to bleed people dry.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/unsafe-transfusion-36988
07-02-2020||The curtain falls on the public campaigning in Delhi||Battle for Delhi||The campaigning for the election came at a sensitive time for the nation. However, the way it was conducted hardly reflected the maturity of our democracy. The demonisation of the anti-CAA protests; overuse of anti-sedition laws, even against children; rhetoric that can only be called hateful — all reflect thinking that is at odds with the liberal secular democracy that our nation is. Even the timing of the announcement, in Parliament, of the formation of the trust for building the temple at the Ram Janambhoomi site, lent itself to muted political interpretations. However, the Prime Minister’s assertion about all communities and faiths in India being part of a large family and their inclusive development was a message that needed to be articulated, given the present situation.The state of Delhi represents a unique microcosm of the nation. These Assembly elections, naturally, become a matter of prestige. In an ideal world, the politics and campaign of Delhi elections would be a model for the rest of the country. The world, however, is far from perfect, and even as the shrillness of the public campaigning dies down, there is still hope that the voters will take the required moment to deliberate before they cast their vote. Meanwhile, the absence of the shrillness and vitriol would be a welcome respite for the nation at large.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/battle-for-delhi-36987
