17-02-2020||In an outrageously dehumanising act||It is wrong. Period.||In a similar shameful episode a couple of years ago, girls of Kasturba Gandhi Girls Residential School in Muzaffarnagar, UP, were forced to undress after blood was found in the washroom. Incidentally, taking this abhorrent social mindset a notch lower is this bizarre pledge that girls of the Mahila Arts and Commerce College, Chandur Railway, Maharashtra, were made to take on Valentine’s Day: that they ‘will never have a love affair nor a love marriage’.With an FIR registered and the National Commission for Women (NCW) having taken notice, strict action is expected in the Bhuj case, as was done in Muzaffarnagar when 12 staffers were dismissed from service. But this will not be the last of such episodes till we learn to respect women and shun the taboo, stigma and secrecy attached to menstruation. There is an urgent need to talk about menstruation with the adolescents — both boys and girls — in homes and schools and normalise it as a natural feminine phenomenon. From it will flow the much-needed menstrual hygiene and its attendant benefits.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/it-is-wrong-period-42705
17-02-2020||The impact of climate change is there for real. India has experienced the vagaries of weather with the El Nino current in the Pacific Ocean affecting its monsoon rainfall. Countries like Bangladesh face a threat from the rising sea level||Combating climate change||Global warming is said to be the result of an increase in emissions which in turn is linked to the economy with the demand for energy pushing up consumption of goods and services that increase carbon intensity. The bushfires in Australia, too, are believed to have been caused by climate change, with the extreme heat, dryness and the rise in the level of greenhouse gases changing the radiating balance of the earth, allowing less heat to escape. There have been demands in that country for energy transition to gas from fossil fuels like coal, of which Australia is a global supplier. The worst part of climate change is that it is caused mostly by human activity, as in the case of use of plastic, and now the subsequent demand for a ban on it. Man and nature are inter-dependent and harmony is essential for sustainable development. Countries the world over have recognised the need to cut down on emissions. The Paris Agreement on Climate Change sought to make efforts, providing technological and financial assistance to the developing countries, which are affected most by climate change. Its aim was to keep global temperature from rising by below 2°C. The rise by 1.4°C, as per the NOAA report, shows it is still under control, but there is no scope for complacency.The study by Indian scientists in Antarctica on the dispersal and circulation of carbon dioxide can help in understanding the process. It is only through R&D that the economy can be modelled to adapt to weather change and minimise losses in terms of life and property.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/combating-climate-change-42704
