18-02-2020||The heartrending death of four children consumed by flames as their school van caught fire in Sangrur district a couple of days ago must serve as a wake-up call to the state authorities to implement their safety protocols. Despite the crackdown on school vehicles in the light of tragic crashes happening with alarming regularity||Unsafe school vehicles||The horrifying accident has shaken up the trust of lakhs of parents who place their faith in the yellow buses and vans and other vehicles for transporting their little ones to school. The onus of providing a safe transport environment is on the government. Accidents do happen and one can never be too cautious when school buses are on the road. Every possible measure needs to be taken to prevent that no more kids come home from school charred in coffins. It once again drives home the importance of zero tolerance for unsafe roads and vehicles. The higher authorities cannot limit their responsibility to ordering inquiries and distributing ex gratia. Such acts, unless followed by urgency in fleshing out the facts and getting to the bottom of the matter, fail to plug the gaps that lead to the loss of innocent lives.Certain and quick punishment to the guilty is the only effective deterrent. Sadly, it is rarely that responsibility is pinned on a government official or a school administrator. Unfit vehicles plying pell-mell on dangerous roads, a sure recipe for disaster, are not an uncommon sight. A Tribune report shows how ill equipped the Punjab government is to ensure a safe journey to schoolchildren: it has only four motor vehicle inspectors for examining three lakh vehicles a year. There’s a long way to go before the parents’ confidence is restored.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/unsafe-school-vehicles-43129
18-02-2020||Two months after the police crackdown at Jamia Millia Islamia in south Delhi||Mayhem at Jamia||Public buses and police vehicles had been torched during clashes between anti-CAA protesters and cops near Jamia Millia Islamia on December 15. The police claim that they entered the campus, without taking permission from the university authorities, in pursuit of some rioters. The cops beat up students and staff members, allegedly without the need to use force against the students. It’s also doubtful whether the police personnel attempted to distinguish between the troublemakers and bona fide students. The fact that the law-enforcers chose to conceal their identity casts a cloud on the entire operation. The police have been in the denial mode about entering the library, but the footage tells a different story.A court-monitored probe with a time frame is needed to determine the whole truth, no matter how unpalatable. The inquiry should take into account the Ministry of Home Affairs’ Task Force Report on ‘standard operating procedures to deal with public agitations with non-lethal measures’, which broadly lays down three guidelines: the magistrate/seniormost police officer on the spot would decide the type and quantum of force; the objective of the use of force is to disperse the unlawful assembly, not to punish it; the action must stop after the dispersal of such an assembly. Did the police party stick to these norms on the Jamia premises? If it didn’t, heads should roll.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/mayhem-at-jamia-43128
