26-02-2020||As a nation||National shame||A new crop of leaders has come up to do the old trick of triggering communal violence with the police standing guard. Incidents in northeast Delhi, which took a toll of 10 people, including a cop on duty, and left 160 injured, should be seen as an extension of the rabid reactionary mobs which were unleashed to deal with those opposing the Citizenship (Amendment) Act at Jawaharlal Nehru University or elsewhere. Kapil Mishra, a former Aam Aadmi Party minister, and now a BJP leader, stood next to a Deputy Commissioner of Police on Sunday and issued an ultimatum to get the anti-CAA protesters removed from Jaffrabad and Chand Bagh in three days. On the third day, all these Muslim-dominated localities erupted in a full-blown communal riot, even as the President of the United States began his State visit in Ahmedabad and Agra.While one part of Delhi was burning, the other was preparing for Tuesday’s bilateral between President Donald Trump and Prime Minister Narendra Modi. Twitter was ablaze with visuals of arson from all across the Capital. Yet, Arvind Kejriwal, who won a landslide election to become Chief Minister for the third time, merely tweeted and retweeted platitudes, as if he could do nothing to stop the madness in his own state. The least that Kejriwal and his MLAs could have done was to have hit the streets to pacify the mobs and to have convinced them that the Delhi Government and the police were impartial. Unfortunately, even Kejriwal has only complaints against the police. And the Home Ministry is responsible.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/national-shame-47258
26-02-2020||Chandigarh will host the shooting and archery competitions of the 2022 Commonwealth Games||CWG events in Chandigarh||The Commonwealth Games have 10 core sports and several optional ones — shooting and archery belong to the optional category. It’s the prerogative of the host to pick up a few of the optional sports; typically, hosts select sports they are likely to win medals in, or ones that are very popular in that country. For instance, at the 2010 CWG, the organisers included tennis, archery and wrestling in the programme, excluding basketball and triathlon. Yet, when Birmingham CWG hosts exercised their right to choose sports that suit them, IOA officials reacted with petulance and threatened to boycott the event. This is unfortunate.Birmingham dropped shooting from the programme because the nearest shooting range appropriate to hold the event is 210 km away; further, the range needed to be revamped to bring it up to the requisite standard. The organisers deemed this a waste of public money. However, Indian sports administrators believe it is acceptable to spend the taxpayers’ money on hosting shooting and archery events in India in order to earn bragging rights. As Sports Minister Kiren Rijiju said, ‘If you are getting medals, whatever the way it has to be, I think it is justified…’ Thus, we will have the absurdity of two CWG events in Chandigarh, six months and 6,600 km away from the Birmingham CWG.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/cwg-events-in-chandigarh-47257
