27-02-2020||IN a notable coincidence||Together against terror||The headway comes weeks after the US stopped short of making any adverse remark on Pakistan’s action plan to curb money laundering and terror financing during the Financial Action Task Force (FATF) review meeting. With the help of friends like China, Malaysia and Turkey, Pakistan has managed to avoid being blacklisted by the FATF for the time being. Even as a Pakistani court recently sentenced Mumbai attack mastermind and Jamaat-ud-Dawa chief Hafiz Saeed to 11- year term in two terror financing cases, New Delhi remains sceptical about the neighbour’s intentions and wants sustained action against such elements. Importantly, the FATF reprieve for Pakistan has not deterred India from piling on the pressure with the help of the US.With the US poised to sign a landmark peace deal with the Afghan Taliban, President Trump sees a major role for India in facilitating sustainable development and stability in Afghanistan. This is another positive for India, considering that America is banking on Pakistan’s assistance, not only to pull its troops out of Afghanistan, but also to counter a belligerent Iran. Eager to exert greater geopolitical influence, India stands to gain from strengthening its strategic partnership with the US and forcing Pakistan to mend its ways.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/together-against-terror-47754
27-02-2020||That over 80 per cent of the private schools in two of Haryana’s most prosperous districts — Faridabad and Gurugram — have failed to furnish data regarding compliance of the state government’s rule of providing 10 per cent seats to children from the economically weaker section (EWS) free of cost is symptomatic of the challenges faced in the implementation of the well-intentioned policy aimed at providing an egalitarian ambience of schooling to all children||Unfilled EWS seats||Private schools across the state have been suffering in the wake of the government’s failure to reimburse to them the dues of the EWS quota students receiving education free of cost over the past six years. The Federation of Private Schools Association claims that the schools are reeling under the weight of Rs 500-crore dues, with over one lakh pupils under Rule 134-A in private schools across the state. Collaterally, this scenario also hangs heavy on the ‘richer’ sections as the burden is, unfairly, passed on to them in the form of exorbitant hikes in tuition fees. At times, it would seem even for undeserving children. For, the racket of fake certificates of income for admissions under the EWS quota, depriving the poor disadvantaged children of their rightful seats, has not been dealt with strictly. Not that all is hunky-dory for all those EWS students who are lucky to get in. The discrimination that some of them face as they are made to sit separately in schools is shameful.Clearly, while the corrective mechanism devised to bridge the socio-economic gap by providing a level playing field to children in the schools is laudable, a lot is missing on the ground to tackle the multi-pronged issue. The equally poor score of the government in ironing out the wrinkles related to proper staff and facilities in the education sector complicates the matter further.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/unfilled-ews-seats-47753
