28-02-2020||The political leaders who fanned the flames both during and after the Delhi Assembly elections can’t wash their hands of the violence that has claimed 35 lives so far||Judicial anguish||Justice Muralidhar’s strictures against the police and the government have turned out to be a parting shot of sorts as he has been transferred to the Punjab and Haryana High Court. The transfer was recommended by the Supreme Court collegium recently, but its timing has raised many an eyebrow. Last week, the Delhi High Court Bar Association had urged the collegium to ‘revisit and recall’ the proposed move, saying that ‘such transfers impede free and fair delivery of justice’. The judge has been part of judgments with far-reaching implications, including those pertaining to the decriminalisation of homosexuality and the conviction of Congress leader Sajjan Kumar in a 1984 riots case. Even if the due process was followed in transferring him, the government needs to explain the undue haste with which it acted now.The Centre has come a cropper in maintaining law and order in Delhi. It’s hoped that the judicial scrutiny would lead to a course correction. No matter which party’s leaders spread hate, they should all be made to face the law. The rabble-rousers have already done a lot of damage. It’s time they got their comeuppance.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/judicial-anguish-48199
28-02-2020||Marksheets serve as documentary evidence of academic credentials. Their importance cannot be overstated in a country that has seen controversies rage over the academic qualification of various ministers||Marks mess at varsity||Haryana had earlier been in the news for the son of a senior university teacher allegedly being shown undue favours and now comes the news about the failure of Indira Gandhi University (IGU) to provide detailed marks certificate (DMC) to 50,000 students in various undergraduate and postgraduate courses run by 130 private, government and aided degree and education colleges in Rewari and Mahendragarh districts. The Vice-Chancellor (VC) has found that the DMCs have not been printed for the last three years due to issues with a private printing agency.The university was set up in 2013, while the affiliation to these institutes was granted in 2017. The VC has said he was new to the job and efforts were on to print and give the students their marksheets. That the university is hamstrung due to resource constraints is obvious, but what is not clear is whether the problems existed even earlier or after the granting of affiliation to these institutes, which must have put a lot of pressure on the infrastructure. The fact that a crucial task like printing marksheets can get stuck in the absence of a printer is a blot on the education system. The thrust on education in Haryana’s districts that fall under the National Capital Region should not be impeded by irritants.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/marks-mess-at-varsity-48198
