01-10-2020||India||Air India cancels all 12 Frankfurt-India flights till October 14||Two days ago, Lufthansa said it will have to cancel all "planned flights" between India and Germany from September 30 to October 20 because of an "unexpected rejection" of its flight schedule by the Indian authorities.

The government officials said Thursday the airline has cancelled 10 Delhi-Frankfurt flights and two Bengaluru-Frankfurt flights that were scheduled till October 14.

"The permission for all Frankfurt flights till October 14 has been withdrawn by the German authorities," said one of the officials.

Air India did not respond to the request for a statement from PTI on this matter.

Lufthansa said on Tuesday it had applied for continuation of the special flights it was allowed to operate until the end of September but would now have to cancel the flights because of the "unexpected rejection".

The German carrier said it "sincerely urges" Indian authorities to work together with the German government to establish a temporary travel agreement between both the countries.

However, Indian aviation regulator DGCA said Tuesday that there are restrictions in place for Indian nationals desiring to travel to Germany which was putting Indian carriers at a significant disadvantage resulting in inequitable distribution of traffic in favour of Lufthansa.

"As against Indian carriers operating 3-4 flights a week, Lufthansa operated 20 flights a week. In spite of this disparity we offered to clear 7 flights a week for Lufthansa which was not accepted by them. Negotiations continue," it noted.

Scheduled international passenger flights have been suspended in India since March 23 due to the coronavirus lockdown. However, special flights have been permitted under "air bubble" arrangements India has formed with 16 countries, including Germany.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-635
01-10-2020||India||HC summons senior UP govt officials over Dalit woman’s rape and murder||A Lucknow bench of the Allahabad High Court has summoned senior government officials amid a national outrage over accusations that the Hathras district administration had forcibly cremated the body of a 19-year-old Dalit girl who had been allegedly raped and brutalised. A bench of justices Rajan Roy and Jaspreet Singh issued summons to the Uttar Pradesh additional chief secretary, director general of police and additional director general of police on Thursday, asking them to be present before the court on October 12 to explain the case. Taking suo motu cognisance of the September 14 gang-rape and subsequent death of the teenager, the bench also ordered the Hathras district magistrate and senior superintendent of police to appear before it. The high court bench asked all officials to come prepared with all the relevant material and documents to apprise the court of their versions of the incident. The order was issued on the day the girl’s father has alleged that he and his family members were being pressured by the district administration to change their statement. The court, which appeared especially upset over the police cremating the teen's body overnight, allegedly forcibly, in Hathras without her parent's consent, also asked officials to apprise the bench of the latest status of the probe into the alleged gang-rape and murder case. The bench also asked the late teen's parent to come to the court to apprise it of their version of the incident and ordered the Hathras district administration to arrange for their travel to the court. Family members of the 19-year-old Dalit woman who succumbed to her injuries at a Delhi hospital has alleged they were being pressured by the district administration against repeatedly changing their statement. The father of the woman, whose death has triggered widespread criticism of the UP government, said he was being pressured by government officials and demanded a CBI probe into the matter. The father, around 50, claimed he was pressured into going to a police station where the district magistrate and police officials made three members of his family sign some document. “But we are not satisfied with this. My daughter's case should be probed by the CBI and monitored by a Supreme Court judge. We are under pressure from officials and confined to our home while the media has also been disallowed from meeting us,” he said in a purported video shared by Congress leader Priyanka Gandhi Vadra on Twitter. The development came after another video, purportedly showing Hathras district magistrate Praveen Kumar Laxkar meeting the family at their home and allegedly asking the woman's father to reconsider if he wanted to stick with the statement or change it. “Aap apni vishwasniyata khatam mat kariye. Media wale main aapko bata doon aaj abhi aadhe chale gaye, kal subah tak aadhe aur nikal jaenge aur 2-4 din bachenge ... Hum hi bas khade hain aapke saath mein, thik hai. Ab aapki ichha hai, aapko baar-baar bayaan badalna hai, nahi badalna hai... (You should not destroy your credibility. About the media, I must tell you, half of them have left today the other half would leave by tomorrow morning... two or four more days maybe. Only we are standing by your side, alright. Now, it is up to you whether you want to change your statement repeatedly or not...),” a man, purportedly D.M. Laxkar, is seen and heard telling the victim's father in the video circulated on social media. A woman member of the family claimed they were being pressured by the district magistrate and feared these people “won't let us live here”, according to another purported video. “Un logon ne mummy ke ulte seedhe video bana rakhe hain, us time haalat aise the ke jiske jo mu mein aa raha tha wo hum log bole ja rahe the... ab ye log humein yahan rehne nahi denge. Ye DM zyada hi chaalbaazi kar rahe hain, pressure daal rahe zabardasti... keh rah eke tum logon ki baton ka bharosa nahi hai, zabardasti bayaan badal rahe. Papa ko bulwa rahe keh rahe bayaan badalne se tumhari wo rahegi, hum log doosri jagah chale jaenge. (They have made random videos of mother's statements. Soon after the incident, the situation was such that we were speaking anything that came to our minds... But now they (administration) won't let us live here anymore. This DM is a trickster, he is pressuring us,” the sobbing woman alleged.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-636
01-10-2020||India||Punjab eases lockdown curbs ||Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh on Thursday ordered a slew of relaxations amid COVID-19 outbreak, including lifting of night curfew and Sunday lockdown, while directing the DGP to strictly enforce wearing of masks and other safety norms. Among the relaxations announced by the chief minister are increasing the guests limit for marriage functions and funerals to 100 in the state, in line with the Centre's guidelines, as well as easing the limit of three persons in a car and 50 per cent capacity in buses, subject to the condition of windows being open, an official release said here. Singh, however, directed DGP Dinkar Gupta to ensure strict adherence to coronavirus protocols, with immediate action against those violating the mandatory wearing of masks condition. "There should be no laxity, especially in view of the ongoing paddy procurement operations and the forthcoming festival season, he said. On reopening of schools and educational institutions, which the Centre had left to the states to decide post October 15 under Unlock 5.0 guidelines, the CM said the final decision will be announced after due deliberations between the home secretary and the education department. During a virtual meeting to review the COVID situation in the state, the senior Congress leader took note of the "decline in rising cases/deaths trend" and said the restrictions imposed earlier by the state government had helped. However, he expressed concern over the increase in COVID-19 cases in rural areas, even though the numbers in cities and towns were going down. Singh also directed Chief Secretary Vini Mahajan to look into arranging for provision of vitamins among others to poor COVID-19 patients discharged from hospitals. In a brief presentation earlier, the state's expert health committee head K K Talwar said the positivity rate in the state had come down from 10.85 per cent on September 14 to 5.12 per cent on September 28. The number of deaths and patients on ventilators had also shown a decline during this period, he said. The state's COVID-19 death rate currently stands at 2.9 per cent with deaths per million at 112.5 per cent. The recovery rate has gone up to 82.1 per cent, Talwar added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-636
01-10-2020||India||SC directs refund of air tickets bought within the lockdown period||The Supreme Court on Thursday directed refund of air tickets, domestic and international, for travel during the COVID-19 lockdown period from March 25 to May 24 within three weeks from the date of the cancellation of flights. Accepting the Centre's proposal, the top court directed that if the tickets have been booked through an agent for travel within the lockdown period, in all such cases full refund shall be given by the airlines immediately and the amount shall be passed on immediately by the agent to the passengers. It said: If on account of financial distress, any airline/airlines are not able to refund then they shall provide credit shell, equal to the amount of fare collected, in the name of passenger when the booking is done either directly by the passenger or through travel agent so as to consume the same on or before March 31, 2021 . It is open to passengers either to utilise such credit shell up to March 31, 2021 on any route of choice or transfer the credit shell to any person including the travel agent concerned, and the airlines shall honour such a transfer, the top court said. A bench of Justices Ashok Bhushan, R Subhash Reddy and M R Shah said the suggestions and formulations arrived at the meeting held by the Ministry of Civil Aviation (MCA), Director General of Civil Aviation (DGCA), which are acceptable to the majority of stakeholders have to be implemented in letter and spirit. We also feel that such formulations are workable solutions in these peculiar circumstances which are prevailing in the country, the bench said, while passing a slew of directions for refund of air tickets to the hassled passengers, whose flights were cancelled due to the pandemic induced lockdown. The top court's verdict came on a batch of petitions, including by NGOs and passengers associations, seeking complete refund of ticket fare for the flights cancelled. It said that the court cannot lose sight of the present situation prevailing in the country and across the globe with regard to the effect of the COVID-19 pandemic and any strict enforcement action of Civil Aviation Requirement (CAR) (aviation norms) against the airlines would further restrict their operations. It cannot be disputed that the civil aviation sector, which is one of the important sectors, is seriously affected in view of the ban imposed for operating flights. Added to the same, air passenger traffic has come down heavily and which is gradually being restored, the top court said. It added that any such enforcement action may further jeopardise the possibilities of generation of cash by airlines which can further adversely affect/delay the refund cycle. Strict enforcement of Civil Aviation Requirements at this moment may not yield any meaningful result for any stakeholder, the bench said. It said that the passengers who booked tickets at any period of time but for travel after May 24, then the refund of fares to the passengers covered under this category shall be governed by the provisions of CAR. Even for international travel, when the tickets have been booked on an Indian carrier and the booking is ex-India (flights originating from India), if the tickets have been booked during the lockdown period for travel within the lockdown period, immediate refund shall be made, the bench said in its order. If the tickets are booked for international travel on a foreign carrier and the booking is ex-India during the lockdown period for travel within the lockdown period, full refund shall be given by the airlines and said amount shall be passed on immediately by the agent to the passengers, wherever such tickets are booked through agents, it added. In all other cases airline shall refund the collected amount to the passenger within a period of three weeks, the bench emphasised and added that the credit shell issued in the name of the passenger shall be transferable which can be utilized up to March 31, 2021 and the concerned airline shall honour such a transfer by devising a mechanism to facilitate such a transfer. It is also made clear that such a credit shell can be utilized by the concerned agent through whom the ticket is booked, for third party use. It is also made clear that even in cases where the credit shell is transferred to a third party; same is to be utilized only through the agent who has booked the ticket at the first instance, it directed. Justice Reddy, who penned the verdict on behalf of the bench, said that in cases where passengers have purchased the ticket through an agent, and credit shell is issued in the name of passenger, such credit shell is to be utilized only through the agent who has booked the ticket. It said that in cases where tickets are booked through agent and credit shell is issued in the name of the passenger remains unutilized till March 31, 2021, then the refund of the fare collected shall be made to the same account from which account amount was received by the airline . The bench said that in all cases where credit shell is issued there shall be an incentive to compensate the passenger from the date of cancellation up to June 30, 2020 in which event the credit shell shall be enhanced by 0.5 per cent of the face value (the amount of fare collected) for every month or part thereof between the date of cancellation and June 30, 2020.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-636
01-10-2020||India||Gandhi siblings arrested by UP Police while proceeding towards Hathras||Congress leaders Rahul Gandhi and Priyanka Gandhi Vadra were on Thursday arrested by the Uttar Pradesh police after they were stopped from marching towards Hathras, the party said. Rahul Gandhi also fell down in the melee after police tried to stop him and his supporters from proceeding on the Yamuna Expressway. The Gandhis were then taken away in a police jeep. Earlier, their convoy was stopped near Pari Chowk, prompting party workers and senior leaders to proceed on foot to Hathras. "Shri Rahul Gandhi, Smt Priyanka Gandhi and senior Congress leaders have been arrested by the UP police," the Congress said on Twitter, using the hashtag "JusticeForIndiasDaughters". Rahul Gandhi asked senior UP cops under which law was he being stopped as he wanted to walk alone towards Hathras to meet the rape victim's family. "Can you tell me under which law can you stop me from marching towards Hathras?" he told the cops. "I want to go alone to Hathras and on what basis can you arrest me," he added, to which the cops told him that he had violated Section 188 of the IPC of disobeying the orders promulgated by the government during the pandemic. Congress leader Randeep Surjrewala put out a video along with a tweet showing Rahul Gandhi allegedly being roughed up as he marched forward on the Yamuna Expressway. Pictures of him falling down in the melee were shared by the Congress. "Lala Lajpat Rai had said that every blow of a stick on my body would prove to be the last nail in the coffin of the British Raj. "The sticks on Rahul ji and Priyanka ji's convoy will also prove to be the last nail in the coffin of the Yogi government," Surjewala said in a tweet in Hindi. Congress leader P Chidambaram also alleged that none of the country's laws seemed to apply to the UP police. "UP police is a law into itself. None of the laws of the country seem to apply to it," he alleged. "What is wrong if the leaders of a political party protest against a gruesome crime and wish to visit the victim's family," he asked on Twitter. Chidambaram said the two leaders were not violent, they did not carry arms and they were lodging a peaceful protest. "Why should the police stop them from protesting peacefully? Why should the UP police arrest the two leaders and take them away?" "I hope the court where the leaders will be produced will release them," he said. The Gandhis were seeking to walk down from Greater Noida to Hathras after their vehicles were stopped by the police. After walking for some time, they were stopped by the police. A large number of Congress workers and leaders were accompanying them during their march. NCP leaders on Thursday criticised the Uttar Pradesh government after the convoy of Congress leaders Rahul Gandhi and Priyanka Gandhi Vadra was stopped by police while they were going to Hathras to meet the family of the Dalit gang-rape victim. Maharashtra Home Minister and NCP leader Anil Deshmukh told reporters here that there should be no objection to a leader of a political party going there (Hathras) to condole with the family. "I feel quite surprised that the Uttar Pradesh government did not allow a senior leader of the party to meet the kin. This is a very serious issue," he said. NCP MP Supriya Sule also condemned the UP Police's action.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-636
01-10-2020||India||Hathras victim was not raped, says UP Police||A senior Uttar Pradesh police officer said on Thursday said the forensic report has revealed that the 19-year-old Hathras woman who succumbed to her injuries at a Delhi hospital was not raped. Citing a forensic science laboratory (FSL) report, ADG (Law and Order) Prashant Kumar said the cause of her death is an injury on the neck and trauma resulting due to it. "The report of the FSL has also come. It says clearly that samples did not have sperm. It makes clear that there was no rape or gang rape," Kumar said. "Even the woman in her statement to police did not mention about rape but talked about 'marpeet' (beating) only, he said. "For disturbing social harmony and create caste violence, some persons wrongly presented facts," the UP police officer said. "Police took immediate action in the case and now we will identify those who tried to disturb social harmony and create caste violence," the ADG added, stressing that people "distorted facts" in the media. The officer said taking note of the matter, Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath had constituted a special investigation team to probe the incident. Those involved in the act will not be spared. But before the medical report, wrong statements pointing fingers on the government and police to malign their image were made. We will examine who are doing this. This is a serious matter. The government and police are sensitive to crime-related to women," he said. The ADG claimed that as per data, Uttar Pradesh topped in conviction in cases related to the crime against women in 2018 and 2019. The woman was allegedly raped at a village in Hathras by four men on September 14. After her condition deteriorated, she was referred to the Delhi's Safdarjung hospital where she breathed her last on Tuesday. She was cremated in the early hours of Wednesday, with her family alleging the local police forced them to conduct the last rites in the dead of night. Local police officers, however, said the cremation was carried out "as per the wishes of the family", even as the incident triggered protests in Hathras with several people coming out on roads.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-636
01-10-2020||India||Rahul, Priyanka's convoy stopped by UP Police en route Hathras||Congress leaders Rahul Gandhi and Priyanka Gandhi Vadra on Thursday proceeded on foot towards Hathras to meet the family of the Dalit gang-rape victim after their convoy was stopped in Greater Noida by the UP Police. The convoy was stopped near Pari Chowk, prompting party workers and senior leaders to proceed on foot to Hathras, which is 150 km away from here. A large number of Congress workers from Uttar Pradesh accompanied the two leaders on their march towards Hathras. They also raised slogans against the UP government. Talking to reporters while walking on the Yamuna Expressway towards Hathras, Priyanka Gandhi said Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath should take responsibility for the alleged gangrape of a 19-year-old Dalit woman in the district and strict action should be taken against the perpetrators of the crime. The victim died in a Delhi hospital on Tuesday. "Since our cars have been stopped, we will walk down to Hathras as we want to meet the victim's family. We want to express our condolences to the family," Priyanka Gandhi said. "He (Adityanath) would have to do something for women's safety. We will continue to fight till the time he does something. The women in the entire state will fight as they realise that they are not safe and secure. Everyday such incidents are happening. Eleven rape cases are registered in Uttar Pradesh everyday," she said. The Congress general secretary recalled that around the same time last year, her party was protesting for the Unnao rape victim. Attacking the UP government for "not allowing the family to cremate the woman with honour", she said, "You claim to be the protectors of the Hindu religion, we are Hindus, but where has it been written that you cannot allow a father to lit the pyre of his daughter and not allow the family to cremate the victim? "The incident was a big injustice. What the state government did after that was a bigger injustice," she said, adding the Adityanath must ensure that atrocities against women are stopped. Ahead of the visit by Congress leaders, the Hathras district magistrate imposed prohibitory orders under section 144 of the Code of Criminal Procedure (CrPC) and ordered sealing of the district borders to maintain peace. A 19-year-old Dalit woman was allegedly raped by four upper-caste men in Hathras on September 14 and referred to the Safdarjung hospital in Delhi on Monday with spinal cord injuries, paralysis and cuts in her tongue. She died around 3 am on Tuesday. Her brutal death and subsequent cremation in the dead of the night in Hathras allegedly under police pressure on Tuesday triggered massive outrage across the country over the law and order situation in UP and over women safety in general. Earlier, a Congress functionary said the Noida-Greater Noida expressway was barricaded by the police and scores of personnel deployed on the road shortly after the Congress leaders and workers entered UP's jurisdiction from Delhi. Nearly a hundred vehicles were in the convoy that was stopped from proceeding, the functionary said Scores of Congress workers had also staged a protest at the Delhi-Noida border, raising slogans against the BJP-led governments in the Centre and in Uttar Pradesh over the gang-rape and death of the Dalit woman. The protestors at the Delhi-Noida border also included women functionaries of the party as well as workers of the Indian Youth Congress (IYC) who gathered at the Delhi-Noida Direct (DND) link around 11.30 am. The Gandhis were joined by Randeep Surjewala, P L Punia, and UP unit chief Ajay Kumar Lallu. When asked about the prohibitory orders placed in Hathras ahead of the Congress leaders' visit, Surjewala told reporters at the DND, Instead of stopping criminals, the Yogi Adityanath government is working on stopping Rahul and Priyanka and that is the question. He also questioned the cremation of the woman in the dead of the night, saying it was against the Hindu traditions and was done without her family's involvement.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-636
01-10-2020||India||Bhushan files fresh plea seeking review of punishment in contempt case||Activist-lawyer Prashant Bhushan moved the Supreme Court on Thursday seeking review of the August 31 sentencing order to either pay nominal fine of Re 1 or face a three-month jail term and debarment from law practice for three years in the contempt case for his two tweets against the judiciary. Bhushan, who has already deposited Re 1 as fine with the apex court's registry on September 14, has filed two separate review petitions in the contempt case. The first review plea on September 14 had challenged the August 14 verdict convicting him for the contempt of court, while the second plea has been filed against the August 31 sentencing order which imposed the fine. In the second review plea, filed through lawyer Kamini Jaiswal, Bhushan has sought an oral hearing in an open court on the matter. He has also sought recall of the impugned judgment and a fresh hearing, and said that the questions of law raised by him should be referred to a larger bench of appropriate strength. The plea said Bhushan was not supplied with the copy of the contempt petition filed by a lawyer on which the apex court had taken cognisance. Referring to an apex court judgement, the review plea said the court never indicated to Bhushan that it was contemplating barring from practicing as a lawyer. At no point during the judicial proceedings in this matter did this court even slightly indicate that it was contemplating disbarring the Petitioner-Advocate herein from appearing before this court. However, without any prior notice, the impugned order imposed on the petitioner a sentence in the alternative disbarring him from appearing before this court for a period of three years which is per incuriam as per the law laid down by a coordinate three judge bench in R K Anand vs Delhi High Court case.., the plea said. The rules of natural justice, therefore, demand that before passing an order debarring an advocate from appearing in courts he must be clearly told that his alleged conduct or actions are such that if found guilty he might be debarred from appearing in courts for a specific period, it said. Besides, Bhushan was denied an opportunity to file a fresh affidavit in case the court was not satisfied by his preliminary reply. He said that his second tweet regarding the judiciary in the last six years was not part of the contempt petition and was a separate issue altogether and should have been placed before the Chief Justice Of India for appropriate directions in the face of settled law . The petitioner was further denied an opportunity to lead evidence under Section 17(5) of Contempt of Courts Act, 1971, to substantiate averments in his preliminary reply, the plea said. On August 14, the top court had held Bhushan guilty of criminal contempt for his two derogatory tweets against the judiciary saying they cannot be said to be a fair criticism of the functioning of the judiciary made in the public interest. Holding that Bhushan attempted to scandalise the entire institution of the Supreme Court, the top court had said, If such an attack is not dealt with, with requisite degree of firmness, it may affect the national honour and prestige in the comity of nations. The top court had analysed the two tweets of Bhushan posted on the micro-blogging site Twitter on June 27 on the functioning of judiciary in past six years, and on July 22 with regard to Chief Justice of India S A Bobde.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-636
01-10-2020||India||Hathras victim was referred to AIIMS, not Safdarjung||The principal of the Jawaharlal Nehru Medical College (JNMC) hospital, where the Hathras gangrape victim was under treatment for more than two weeks, on Thursday said he had no idea why she was admitted to the Safdarjung hospital in Delhi when they had referred her to the AIIMS. "We are not in a position to explain as to why the patient was taken to the Safarjung hospital in New Delhi when we had referred her to the AIIMS," Professor Shahid Ali Siddiqui said. "On the night of September 28, the victim's family sought permission to shift her and we willingly referred her to the AIIMS," he added. The next morning, the patient, along with her family members, left for Delhi. Asked about the issue on Wednesday, JNMC authorities told reporters, "The Hathras district administration will be able to respond to this query, we had no role in this." Siddiqui said, "Normally, the decision to shift a patient for better medical facilities is taken by doctors in consultation with the patient's family, but if the family members wish to go by their decision, they can do so and we always cooperate." Asked about certain conflicting media reports regarding the injuries suffered by the victim, he said there is no scope for speculation as "we are only authorised to submit the report to the investigating officer or the court". Meanwhile, opposition parties and organisations have severely criticised the decision of the Hathras authorities on performing the last rites of the victim allegedly without the consent of the family. The 19-year-old Dalit woman was allegedly raped by four upper-caste men in Hathras on September 14 and was admitted to the Safdarjung hospital in Delhi on Monday with spinal cord injuries, paralysis and cuts in her tongue. She died at around 3 am on Tuesday. Congress leaders Priyanka Gandhi Vadra and Rahul Gandhi will be visiting Hathras in Uttar Pradesh to meet the family members of a Dailt gangrape victim, who died in a Delhi hospital on Tuesday. "Priyanka and Rahul will be visiting Hathras to meet the family members of the victim," Uttar Pradesh Congress media coordinator Lalan Kumar said, adding that a large number of party workers have gathered at Ghaziabad to receive the two leaders.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-636
01-10-2020||India||Another Dalit rape victim in UP dies ||A 22-year-old Dalit woman died after being allegedly raped by two men in UP's Balrampur district, an incident which comes amid nationwide outrage over the Hathras gang-rape case. The woman's mother said she was abducted in the morning while on way to secure a college admission, as reported by ndtv.com. When she failed to return in time, the family launched a search for the woman. The family says she returned around 7 pm, and that the assailants had allegedly put her on an e-rickshaw and sent her home, sources said. "The men had injected her with some substance due to which she lost consciousness. Then they raped her... They broke her legs, they broke her back. A rickshaw-wallah brought her home. They was thrown in front of our house. My child could barely stand or speak," the woman's mother said, weeping. "Somehow, crying, my daughter said, 'Save me, I do not want to die'," the mother said. She added that soon after her return, her daughter complained of a burning pain in her stomach. "The doctor at the local hospital said her condition is serious and advised that she be taken to Lucknow. But she died when we were near Balrampur town," she added. The girl looked dazed and had an intravascular cannula, medically known as Vigo and used for administering injection or other fluids in the body, inserted in her hands, said Balrampur Superintendent of Police Dev Ranjan Verma. About the reports that the victim's legs and back were broken, he said, "It was not confirmed in the post-mortem. We contradict this news." The victim was cremated on Wednesday after the post-mortem in the presence of her family members, the police said. The district magistrate and the SP, along with the mahant of the Devipatan temple, Mithilesh Nath Yogi, visited the victim's house on Thursday morning, met the family members and condoled her death. "The family members were assured that the accused will be given a strict punishment in accordance with law. A letter sanctioning a financial assistance of Rs 6,18,450 was handed over to them by the mahant. The amount will be sent to the victim's mother bank account by the afternoon," a statement issued here said. The mother has demanded a compensation of Rs 25 lakh and a government job for her son. "My daughter wanted to become a lawyer but she was killed. The same fate should await the culprits. We want justice. My son should be given a government job and we should get at least Rs 25 lakh as compensation," she said. The "jungle raj" that has spread in Uttar Pradesh has no limits and the time for accountability is now, Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra said, adding that a gruesome incident like Hathras had taken place in Balrampur too. "Law and order is not run by marketing and speeches. This is time for accountability of the Uttar Pradesh chief minister. The public wants accountability," Priyanka Gandhi said in a tweet in Hindi. Alleging that "atrocities" on women and the government's brazenness is continuing, former Congress president Rahul Gandhi said, "Did not give respect when alive and also snatched the dignity in death." His tweet, also in Hindi, referenced the Hathras victim's family being allegedly denied the right to properly perform her last rites. When the matter was reported to the police from the hospital, the parents alleged that their daughter was gang-raped, SP Verma added. Acting on the parent's complaint, police identified the accused as Shahid and Sahil and arrested them, the SP said. Reacting to the incident, Samajwadi Party supremo Akhilesh Yadav said, "After Hathras, now a daughter was harassed and gang-raped in Balrampur. The victim died in serious condition. Condolences!" "The BJP government should commit no laxity in this case as was done in Hathras and arrest the accused immediately," he added with a hashtag #Balrampur... #NoMoreBJP" on his Twitter handle. The Balrampur case comes at a time when there is a widespread outrage over the gang-rape of a Dalit woman in Hathras. A 19-year-old Dalit was allegedly sexually assaulted by four upper caste men on September 14 and referred on Monday to the Safdarjung Hospital in Delhi with spinal injuries, paralysis and cuts in her tongue. She died around 3 am on Tuesday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-636
01-10-2020||India||Brutalised Dalit girl’s body ‘hijacked’ by UP police||Police allegedly hijacked the body of the gang-raped and brutalised Dalit teen whose death has triggered protests in Delhi and Uttar Pradesh and cremated it without her immediate family’s participation — a tactic often followed in Kashmir with militants’ funerals to pre-empt flare-ups. The girl’s family in Hathras district, Uttar Pradesh, said the state police had “surreptitiously” taken the body away from Delhi’s Safdarjung Hospital on Tuesday morning, brought it to their village at night, locked them inside their house and “burnt” the body at the local cremation ground. An uncle of the 19-year-old victim said he had been standing outside the girl’s house in Champda village when “some policemen grabbed me and forcibly took me to the cremation ground and shot a video to show I had attended the funeral”. He said that after placing the body on the pyre, “the policemen poured a liquid from a plastic container on the pyre and burnt the body”. He added that no holy water ritual or mukhagni (a fire ritual) was done. “People were protesting at various places along the highway in Hathras. The police clandestinely cremated her, instead of handing the body over, to prevent the funeral triggering an outpouring of emotion and anti-government protests,” the victim’s elder brother said. With the same objective in mind, Kashmir police have been refusing to hand over the bodies of slain militants to their families, and have been burying them in far-off places, sometimes with a token representation from their families. Hathras superintendent of police Vikrant Vir said: “The police were at the cremation ground to maintain law and order. The victim’s family performed the last rites.” Prem Prakash Meena, joint magistrate of Hathras, echoed him: “The victim’s family members were present during cremation. We have made many videos of their presence.” The brother said he had been waiting at Safdarjung Hospital for the handover of the body after his sister died there around 4am on Tuesday. He learnt around 6am that the Uttar Pradesh police had taken the body away. It’s not clear where the police kept the body through the day. It was at night that they arrived with the body in Champda, 180km from Delhi. “On the way, they used force to disperse the large number of women and men from across Uttar Pradesh who had gathered on the highways in Hathras after learning the police had seized the body,” he said. The victim’s father said: “The police locked the door of our house from outside while my wife, son, eldest daughter, some other close relatives and I were inside. They burnt her body at the local cremation ground at 2.30am.” “We were not allowed to go. We couldn’t even see her face,” said the brother, who had registered the FIR against the four accused on September 14. That day, the victim and her mother were collecting grass for their cattle from two distant parts of a large field when the accused allegedly overpowered the girl, gang-raped her, chopped her tongue off and broke her spinal cord, paralysing her from the waist down. “My sister was admitted to J.N. Hospital, Aligarh, on September 15 and shifted to Safdarjung Hospital on Sunday. We had demanded she be treated at AIIMS, New Delhi, but the police said no bed was available there,” the brother said. Sandeep Singh, Lavkush Kumar Singh, Ramu Singh and Ravi Kumar Singh — upper caste men from Champda — were arrested one by one within five days of the incident on the charge of attempt to murder. The charge has been changed to murder now. “The charge of molestation was added on September 19 and that of gang rape on September 22,” Piyush Mordia, inspector-general of police, Aligarh range, said. The family says the gang rape charge was added under public pressure. But Mordia on Wednesday said the reports from the Aligarh hospital “didn’t confirm the gang rape, so we have sent the evidence to a forensic laboratory”. “The police initially ignored our request to book the criminals on the charge of gang rape,” the girl’s mother, who witnessed the last few moments of the assault after being alerted by the victim’s cries, said. “I want the tormentors of my daughter and the policemen who are trying to save them to suffer the way my daughter suffered in hospital and died.” The state government has formed a three-member special investigation team under home secretary Bhagwan Swaroop to probe the case. The other members are a senior police officer and a bureaucrat. “The SIT is just eyewash. I have come to know that most SIT reports ordered by the Yogi Adityanath government never see the light of day,” the victim’s brother said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-636
01-10-2020||India||‘No plot’ to demolish Babri, all acquitted||A special CBI court on Wednesday acquitted all 32 surviving accused in the Babri Masjid demolition case, denying any conspiracy by the assembled BJP and VHP heavyweights and blaming the vandalism on “anti-social elements” who had infiltrated the kar sevaks. The judgment concludes a 28-year-old chapter stemming from one of the darkest incidents in Indian history, handing another victory to the BJP after the Supreme Court last November allotted the disputed Ayodhya plot to Hindus despite calling the demolition an “egregious violation of the rule of law”. The CBI, the prosecuting agency, said it would decide on an appeal after consulting its legal department. Judge Surendra Kumar Yadav, who retired on Wednesday after passing the verdict, said in his 2,300-page order: “There were some anti-social elements which had mixed up with the kar sevaks and committed the crime. The politicians and the sadhus were continuously making appeals to the mob to maintain peace.” Hearing the verdict, which brings the Babri issue centre-stage ahead of the Bihar polls, some among the 26 defendants present in court broke out in chants of “Jai Shri Ram”. ⚫ The verdict disposes of the case against the unnamed kar sevaks too, pinning the blame on “anti-social elements (who) ignored the fact that there was an idol of the god (Ram) inside the structure”, which “suggests that they didn’t have respect for any religion”. ⚫ It was partly because of the Ram idol — installed surreptitiously inside the mosque in 1949 — that Hindu leaders like the late VHP stalwart Ashok Singhal had wanted to save the structure rather than encourage the mob to demolish it, the court observed. ⚫ The court refused to admit newspaper clippings or video recordings of the demolition, many of which said or purported to show that some of the Sangh parivar leaders had egged the mob on. ⚫ The court said the CBI had failed to follow Section 65 of the Indian Evidence Act (which deals with electronic records) and had relied on video footage rather than furnishing negatives of the footage and the equipment used to shoot the videos. ⚫ It said some of the video cassettes produced as evidence were unclear and that the voices of the parivar leaders in some of the audios were inaudible. ⚫ The judgment quoted a December 1, 1992, report by the local intelligence unit of Uttar Pradesh police that spoke of a possibility of “unscrupulous elements” joining the kar sevaks and committing a crime. BJP veteran L.K. Advani, allowed to participate via videoconferencing along with party stalwarts Murli Manohar Joshi, Uma Bharati and Kalyan Singh and two others, did so at home. “It’s a very important decision and a matter of happiness for us. When we heard the news of the court’s order, we welcomed it by chanting Jai Shri Ram,” Advani, 92, said in a video message. Zafaryab Jilani, advocate and member of the All India Muslim Personal Law Board, spoke about challenging the verdict in the high court. AIMIM chief Asaduddin Owaisi called the development “obnoxious”, saying the judgment “satisfies the collective consciousness of Hindutva and its followers and ideology”. “Was it some sort of magic that on December 6 the masjid was demolished? Who called for the assembling of the people over there? Who made sure that they entered over there?” he asked. Kalyan was Uttar Pradesh chief minister, responsible for the mosque’s protection, when the December 6, 1992, demolition happened, triggering riots that killed hundreds across the country and deeply divided Indian society. The verdict came on the last day of the final deadline set by the apex court, which had extended the judge’s retirement age. Judge Yadav took his seat at 12.10pm and spent five minutes reading out the operative part of his judgment. Iqbal Ansari, a prominent litigant in the Ayodhya title suit, welcomed Wednesday’s verdict. “It’s good that all have been acquitted. Whatever had to happen, happened on November 9 last year (with the Ayodhya land verdict). This case should also have ended the same day,” he said. Two cases had originally been filed, one against unknown kar sevaks and the other naming 49 parivar heavyweights as conspirators, of whom 17 have died. The cases were later clubbed together. All the accused alleged being falsely implicated by the then Congress government at the Centre. At one stage, the criminal conspiracy charge was dropped against the key figures but the Supreme Court restored it in 2017 and ordered daily hearings. The CBI produced 351 witnesses and furnished 600 pieces of evidence. The six accused excused from physical presence in the court on Wednesday included Ram Janmabhoomi Teerth Kshetra Trust president Nritya Gopal Das and Shiv Sena leader Satish Pradhan. Das had tested Covid-positive last month while Kalyan and Uma are in hospital recovering from the infection. “The judgment vindicates my personal and the BJP’s belief and commitment towards the Ram Janmabhoomi movement,” Advani said. “I also feel blessed that this judgment has come in the footsteps of another landmark verdict of the Supreme Court given in November 2019, which paved the way for my long-cherished dream of seeing a grand Ram Mandir at Ayodhya, the foundation-laying ceremony of which was held on August 5.” Additional reporting from PTI||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-637
01-10-2020||India||Surprises in Covid study||A giant study on Covid-19 conducted in India has pointed to early deaths, high risk of transmission among children below 14 years and the oldest adults being surprisingly protected from the infection.The study has also revealed that the risk of secondary spread — an infected person spreading the virus — is much higher among occupants of shared vehicles during travel for six hours or longer than among people within households. A team of nine health researchers and government officials analysed data from 575,000 contacts of 84,965 confirmed Covid-19 patients in Andhra Pradesh and Tamil Nadu to look for patterns of infection spread, mortality and the risk of exposure. Scientists not associated with the analysis said they were impressed by the richness of the data. “It is absolutely fantastic that two state governments have shared Covid-19 data for academic analysis,” Gagandeep Kang, a senior clinician-scientist and expert in infectious diseases at the Christian Medical College, Vellore, told The Telegraph. Some community medicine specialists, including members of the Indian Public Health Association, have highlighted the Centre’s failure to make data available for independent analysis despite the country witnessing more than 6.2 million Covid-19 infections and 97,000 deaths. The study has generated evidence for a strong transmission risk among similar-age contacts, with the highest such risk among children aged 14 years, which the researchers believe could be driven by social interactions such as those in shared play spaces. While worldwide data have established that most infected children remain asymptomatic or develop only mild symptoms, scientists have been debating children’s capacity to spread the infection. “We have compelling evidence that children are efficient transmitters,” Ramanan Laxminarayanan, a public health researcher and director of the US-based Centre for Disease Dynamics Economics and Policy who led the study, told this newspaper. The new study, published in the US journal Science on Wednesday, found that half of 5,733 Covid-19 deaths in Andhra Pradesh and Tamil Nadu occurred within six days of diagnosis and 1,042 (18.2 per cent) within 24 hours or even before a test result. The observed time-to-death after the diagnosis is shorter than the average of 13 days reported from the US or at least two weeks from China and indicates that a substantial proportion of patients in the two states were diagnosed late. “Covid is among the trickiest diseases to diagnose only through symptoms,” Shankar Reddy Dudala, a community medicine specialist and a study team member from Andhra Pradesh, told this newspaper. Many patients, he said, reached hospitals only after they had developed severe breathlessness. Before suffering breathlessness, the patients often had mild fever, cough, sore throat, body pain, loss of appetite, stomach pain or just hiccups, he said. Their analysis revealed significant differences in the risk of spread in different exposure settings. The chance of someone picking up the infection if exposed to an infected patient was 1.2 per cent in healthcare settings, 2.6 per cent in the community, 9 per cent within households and 79 per cent if travelling in the same vehicle for six hours or longer. About 31 per cent of the infections occurred in people below 30 years and the deaths were concentrated between ages 50 and 64 years. Among a group 124,000 cases, the overall case fatality rate was 2.06 per cent — 0.054 per cent among patients aged between 5 and 17 years, increasing with age to 16 per cent among patients aged 85 or older, the rise in line with observations in other countries. “Unlike observations in high-income countries, the incidence of reported cases does not increase with older age,” said Ramanan, who collaborated with researchers at the Johns Hopkins School of Public Health and the University of California, Berkeley, for the study. The researchers say it is possible that the stringent stay-at-home orders for the elderly has reduced their risk of exposure. But they say it is also possible the oldest people in India enjoy a “survivability bias” rooted in a socio-economic advantage, reflected by their survival to very old age in a country where life expectancy is 69 years, compared with 77 years in China, 79 years in the US and 83 years in Italy. “This is a novel finding — we need to understand this better, but it is possible that better nutrition or overall health or their socio-economic status somehow confers the oldest people in the country some protection from exposure,” Dudala said. Scientists say the study’s findings — the early deaths, the high risk of spread through shared travel and efficient transmission between children — could guide policy decisions to control the epidemic. “Transmission within children would need to be considered while making policies on opening schools,” said Shahid Jameel, a senior virologist in India. “This study reinforces the criticality of making available public health data for analysis in real time.” He added: “By now, India should have had comparable data across most states so that even regional and sub-regional differences could be identified. Sensible policy can only be formulated when high quality data is available in a timely manner.” The other study members were epidemiologists Joseph Lewnard from the University of California, Berkeley; Brian Wahl from Johns Hopkins; S. Neelima from Andhra Pradesh and K. Gopal, Chandra Mohan, K.S. Jawahar Reddy and J. Radhakrishnan, senior government officials from Andhra Pradesh and Tamil Nadu.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-637
01-10-2020||India||Travesty of justice: CPM||The CPM on Wednesday described the Babri Masjid demolition verdict as a “travesty of justice” that would blemish the image of India as a secular, democratic country governed by the Constitution. Demanding that the CBI appeal against the judgment, the CPM politburo said “it took 28 long years for this verdict but not justice to be delivered”. It noted that all top leaders of the BJP-VHP-RSS who were present during the Babri demolition in 1992 had been found to be innocent of the charge of conspiracy to demolish the mosque. In a related statement, the CPI’s Binoy Viswam said the verdict, while disappointing, was not unexpected. “The whitewashing of the plethora of crimes committed on December 6, 1992, has been the hallmark of this government and its coteries.... The impunity afforded to those who subscribe to a particular political disposition is unbecoming of the foundational principles of India where every citizen is equal and the law rules supreme.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-637
01-10-2020||India||Vindicated, says CBI  ex-chief  ||Former CBI director P.C. Sharma on Wednesday said the acquittal of all the 32 accused in the Babri Masjid demolition case was a vindication of his decision to drop the criminal conspiracy charge against then deputy Prime Minister L.K. Advani. “The verdict of the court has brought to light what I had opined nearly two decades back that there was no criminal conspiracy,” Sharma said. He said that during his tenure — first as an officiating director of the CBI and later during his two-year stint as its chief — he had gone through every detail of the case and reached the conclusion that Advani could not be accused of criminal conspiracy. “Pursuing this, an application was moved before the Rae Bareilly court informing it of the CBI’s decision in 2003, but all hell broke loose and the agency was questioned and even accused of siding with the political government of the day,” Sharma, who is in his early 80s, said. He added: “I believe today’s verdict is an answer to all those accusations and the case has reached its finality.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-637
01-10-2020||India||Cong cites SC, slams verdict||The Congress has objected to the mass acquittal in the Babri Masjid demolition that the Supreme Court had termed an “egregious violation of the rule of law”, arguing the entire country has witnessed the Sangh-BJP “conspiracy” to destroy communal harmony. “The decision of the special (CBI) court to acquit all the accused in the Babri Masjid demolition case runs counter to the Supreme Court’s (Ayodhya title suit) judgment as also the constitutional spirit,” party communications chief Randeep Surjewala said. “The Supreme Court in its judgment on November 9, 2019, pronounced by five judges, held that the demolition of the Babri Masjid was a clear illegality and an ‘egregious violation of the rule of law’. But the special court has exonerated all the accused.” Surjewala added: “The entire country witnessed a deep-rooted political conspiracy by the BJP-RSS and its leaders to destroy the country’s communal amity and brotherhood for usurping power at any cost. The then BJP government of Uttar Pradesh was a co-conspirator in the designed attack on India’s constitutional ethos, so much so that the Supreme Court was misled (with) a wrong affidavit (filed) on oath. “It is only after a detailed examination of all these aspects, facts and evidence that the Supreme Court held the demolition of the masjid to be ‘an egregious violation’ of the rule of law.” While the Congress had welcomed the Supreme Court verdict that gave the disputed plot in Ayodhya to Hindus to build a Ram temple, it views the Babri demolition as a criminal act that should be treated separately. Surjewala said: “Every Indian who has innate faith in the Constitution as also in the spirit of communal amity and brotherhood expects and urges the central and state governments to file an appeal against the decision of the special court, (which is) founded in error, and follow the letter of the law and the Constitution without any partiality and pre-meditated prejudice. This is the true calling of the rule of law and our Constitution.” The Congress spokesperson read out an extract from the Supreme Court verdict: “On 6 December 1992, the structure of the mosque was brought down and the mosque was destroyed. The destruction of the mosque took place in breach of the order of status quo and an assurance given to this court. The destruction of the mosque and the obliteration of the Islamic structure was an egregious violation of the rule of law.” Surjewala added: “Para 800 said, ‘The Constitution postulates the equality of all faiths. Tolerance and mutual co-existence nourish the secular commitment of our nation and its people’. Still, the special court found no one guilty.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-637
01-10-2020||India||A shame, no remedy: Lawyers||There is no remedy in the country anymore, veteran lawyers said while reacting to the Babri mosque demolition verdict and cautioned that the judgment acquitting senior BJP leaders L.K. Advani, Murli Manohar Joshi and others was a recipe for lawless elements to break the law with impunity. The critics also unanimously agreed that the foundation for Wednesday’s acquittal was perhaps laid by the five-judge Supreme Court constitution bench’s judgment on November 9 last year handing over the disputed land in Ayodhya for the construction of a Ram temple even after accepting that the demolition of the mosque had been an “egregious violation of the rule of law”. The rights activists said it was unlikely that the CBI would file an appeal against the acquittal by the special CBI court in Lucknow, given the agency’s track record. They pointed out that the CBI had not challenged the discharge of then BJP chief and current Union home minister Amit Shah in 2014 in the alleged fake encounter killing of gangster Sohrabuddin Sheikh. The CBI counsel has said it will decide on filing an appeal against the special court verdict after consulting its legal department. Technically only the CBI as the prosecuting agency can file an appeal unless there is a complainant in the case who is also a party to the dispute. In the Babri case, there is no complainant other than the CBI and Uttar Pradesh police. However, the high courts under Articles 226 and 227 and the Supreme Court under Article 142 have inherent powers to order the CBI to file an appeal either suo motu or through a PIL. Senior advocate Dushyant Dave and veteran lawyer Prashant Bhushan felt no useful purpose would be served by filing an appeal against Wednesday’s judgment. Civil liberties lawyer Colin Gonzalves, referring to the acquittal, said: “What a shame!” “Nobody is punished? I would say this is a very dark day for India, for which the police and the judiciary are to be blamed. Because you can smash a mosque in broad daylight after giving an assurance to the Supreme Court, completely destroy a mosque. And nobody is punished?” Gonzalves told The Telegraph. “This naturally follows the Supreme Court judgment on Ayodhya. It follows from that. Because if you can give the mosque over to another community, you know there is no justice in this country,” he added. The senior advocate pointed out that the law of the land states that even if a person breaks his own property, he has to first reconstruct it and then seek adjudication of the dispute. But in the case of the Ayodhya land, Gonzalves said the Supreme Court last year allowed the arguments to proceed in the matter without first seeking the reconstruction of the demolished mosque. “But here the court allowed arguments without insisting on reconstruction. So what it means is there is an incentive to any group to say this land belongs to A, this belongs to me. It’s an incentive to break and then finally file a suit and make a claim that this land is mine,” he said. “Take the law first into your hands. It is an incentive to take the law into your hands. Today’s judgment is a continuation of that principle. Nothing is going to happen, nothing is going to happen. Take the law into your hands. You broke the thing in broad daylight, nothing is going to happen to you. What a shame!” Gonzalves said. The senior advocate was dismissive of the possibility of the CBI filing an appeal against Wednesday’s verdict, saying the “CBI is his master’s voice”. He, however, did not agree with the view that it was time to move on. “There is no moving on. It’s like the Sikhs (in the 1984 riots). Sikhs have not got justice. How can you move on when you have lost your husbands, wives, sons and daughters in a riot, how can you move on?” Gonzalves asked. “There is no remedy in India with a weak judiciary and a very servile police force. There is no remedy in the country anymore,” he said. Bhushan said the acquittal was a foregone conclusion. “It was in many ways a foregone conclusion given what the court — the Supreme Court — has done by rewarding these very people with the land where these people had demolished the mosque.” He added: “The CBI will not appeal (Wednesday’s judgment)… Just as they didn’t appeal against the discharge of Amit Shah, they are not likely to appeal.” Bhushan went on: “It will become a very old sort of thing and more important things have overtaken the country. There is a much bigger onslaught on the minorities today than the demolition of a mosque.” Senior advocate and Supreme Court Bar Association president Dave said the acquittal was bound to follow the Supreme Court judgment. The lawyer felt the CBI would not challenge the verdict. “Well, the CBI is controlled today by the executive. (Then) Chief Justice (R.M.) Lodha had said it is a caged parrot. It would be very difficult to expect the CBI to do anything. They didn’t file any appeal against the discharge of Mr Amit Shah, whose prosecution had been ordered by the Supreme Court itself. I would be very surprised if the CBI were to file an appeal,” Dave said. The senior lawyer felt it would not be possible for any private person to file an appeal as the remedy would lie in the form of a PIL before Allahabad High Court or the Supreme Court for a direction to the CBI to lodge an appeal. “I think time has come to forget this matter as the majority of the country wanted and the Supreme Court obliged the majority and I think we should put it behind and move on,” Dave said. “I don’t know whether originally the complainant was a private person or not. But it would be a kind of public interest petition by a private person asking the CBI to maintain an appeal. I think such a plea can be maintained by a private person. “But as I said, this is an exercise in futility. Everybody expected this outcome and once the Supreme Court itself overlooked the destruction of the mosque and permitted rebuilding of the temple, that was a clear sign to the district judge to exonerate all these people,” Dave said. He said India would have to accept, as was happening in Turkey and other Islamic countries where religious structures of minorities are destroyed and those of the majority community are constructed on the ruins. “I think we must accept the position like Turkey has done. Turkey recently converted a church into a mosque. There also they have relied upon some judgment of the constitution bench of the Supreme Court of Turkey,” he added. “India is also following the same thing that Islamic countries are doing. I think in today’s world, the majority speaks and once it speaks it should be treated as final. I don’t think anybody else should have any voice against it,”Dave said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-637
01-10-2020||India||Modi and Shah silent ||Prime Minister Narendra Modi, home minister Amit Shah and BJP chief J.P. Nadda remained silent on Wednesday’s acquittal of all the Babri demolition accused but the RSS welcomed the verdict, urging everyone to move forward for the “progress of this country”. Defence minister Rajnath Singh too lauded the judgment saying it represented the victory of “justice”, although a delayed one. The silence maintained by Modi, Shah and Nadda appeared deliberate. Party sources said there was no need to celebrate the verdict as the decks had already been cleared for the BJP’s main goal of having a Ram temple at the disputed site in Ayodhya. Many of the acquitted accused from the BJP, some of them big names during the temple movement of the 1980s and early 1990s, are now sidelined within the party. Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath, however, chose an aggressive response. In a tweet, he welcomed the verdict with “Satyamev jayate (The truth alone wins)” and went on to demand an apology from the Congress, accusing the party of “falsely implicating saints and BJP leaders” in the case. “Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh welcomes the decision of honour acquittal of all the accused in the case related to the destruction of the disputed structure by CBI special court,” RSS general secretary Suresh “Bhayyaji” Joshi said in a statement. “After this decision, all sections of society should come together in unity and harmony and work successfully to face the challenges before the country, and work towards the progress of this country.” Marginalised BJP veteran L.K. Advani, one of the accused and the face of the Ram temple movement, said he had welcomed the verdict by chanting “Jai Shri Ram” at his home. “The judgement vindicates my personal and the BJP’s belief and commitment towards the Ram Janmabhoomi Movement,” the 92-year-old, who attended the Lucknow court proceedings through videoconferencing, said in a statement. Television channels flashed pictures of Advani waiting for the judgment at his Delhi home, holding the hand of his daughter Pratibha. Advani said the judgment, along with last November’s Supreme Court verdict handing the disputed Ayodhya plot to the Hindus, had “paved the way for my long-cherished dream of seeing a grand Ram Mandir at Ayodhya”. “May Shri Ram keep us blessed always,” he added, concluding his statement with a “Jai Shri Ram” in bold capitals.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-637
01-10-2020||India||SC nod for civil services exam on October 4 ||The Supreme Court on Wednesday permitted the Union Public Service Commission to go ahead with the October 4 civil services exam as it rejected the plea of a batch of students for postponement of the exams by two-three months on account of the pandemic situation in the country. A bench headed by Justice A.M. Khanwilkar, however, directed that the authorities must take all precautionary steps and standard operating procedures (SoPs) evolved by the ministry of health, including ensuring that no Covid positive student is allowed to take the exams and there shall be not more than 100 students in a centre, be fully followed. “… but there are instructions that such patients cannot travel… It requires isolation how can lives be risked? We cannot breach protocol by saying quarantine has to be violated,” the bench said, while rejecting the plea for permitting Covid positive candidates to appear for the exam. The bench also comprising Justices B.R. Gavai and Krishna Murari rejected the plea of the candidates for merger of the 2020 civil services exams with that of the 2021 preliminary exams, which is tentatively scheduled for June 27. Justice Khanwilkar said there can be no merger as it would have a “cascading effect” on various other exams in the country. The court passed the directions after taking on record the affidavit filed by the UPSC which stated that it had incurred an enormous expenditure for conduct of the exams at 72 centres and over 2,500 sub-centres across the country and all necessary precaution and SoPs are being followed to protect the health of the candidates and others.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-637
01-10-2020||India||States can decide on schools||The Union home ministry on Wednesday issued guidelines permitting states to take a call on reopening schools outside containment zones from October 15 and also allowed cinemas to operate at 50 per cent capacity. States and Union Territories will consult the schools to assess the situation and decide on reopening, the Unlock 5 guidelines issued by the government says. Coaching centres will also be allowed to reopen. In Bengal, chief minister Mamata Banerjee has said there is no chance of schools reopening before Kali Puja in mid-November. States and Union Territories can allow from October 15 social, academic, sports, entertainment, cultural, religious, political and other events with a ceiling in enclosed spaces. However, in open spaces, the size of the ground and other such areas will decide the number of people to be allowed at the gatherings. This is expected to facilitate rallies in the run-up to the Bihar Assembly polls. The reopening of schools will be subject to the following conditions, according to the Centre: ⚫ Online/distance learning shall continue to be the preferred mode of teaching and shall be encouraged. ⚫ Where schools are conducting online classes, and some students prefer to attend them rather than physically go to school, they may be permitted to do so. ⚫ The written consent of parents is must for students to attend school and also coaching institutes. ⚫ Physical attendance must not be enforced, and must depend entirely on parental consent. ⚫ States and Union Territories will have to prepare their own standard operating procedures (SOPs) regarding health and safety precautions for reopening schools and coaching institutions. The SOPs will have to be based on the one issued by the department of school education and literacy under the Union education ministry and in keeping with local requirements. ⚫ Schools that are allowed to reopen will have to follow the SOPs. Higher education institutions meant only for research scholars and postgraduate students of science and technology who require laboratory facilities will be allowed to reopen on October 15. Cinemas, theatres and multiplexes outside containment zones will be permitted to reopen with a ceiling of 50 per cent of the seating capacity from October 15. In Bengal, cinemas have been allowed to reopen on October 1 but the establishments have decided to wait till the I&B ministry issues the SOPs. Entertainment parks and similar places will be permitted to reopen from October 15. Only those swimming pools that are used for the training of sportspersons will be permitted to open from October 15. Business-to-business (B2B) exhibitions will be permitted from the same date. The SOP will be released by the department of commerce. Lockdowns in containment zones will continue till October 31 and states will not be allowed to enforce lockdowns outside these areas.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-637
01-10-2020||India||Blame on UP cops for assaults on Dalit girls ||A leading Dalit rights group on Wednesday described the fatal gang rape and torture of a teenaged Dalit girl in Hathras as the tip of an iceberg of atrocities against deprived segments of the population in Uttar Pradesh. The National Campaign on Dalit Human Rights (NCDHR) blamed the indifference of the police for the increasing assaults on Dalit women in Uttar Pradesh and demanded that all these cases be tried in fast-track courts. In a statement, the organisation said that more than a half-dozen assaults on Dalit women and girls had been reported from Lakhimpur Kheri district alone in the past two months. Six instances of abduction and rape have been reported from Saharanpur district. “These gruesome incidents of sexual violence reflect the real picture of Indian society, constructed on violent casteist patriarchal structure,” the statement said. Data collated from the National Crime Record Bureau’s reports suggest that Uttar Pradesh witnessed the highest number of atrocities against Dalit women in India between 2014 and 2018. Altogether 7,920 cases of atrocities against Dalit women were registered under the SC/ST (Prevention of Atrocities) Amendment Act in the state during this period. These included 3,421 cases of assault, 2,410 rapes and 1,870 kidnappings. Vimal Thorat, an academic and the NCDHR convener, told this newspaper that the police were completely apathetic to atrocities against Dalits. “If the police had taken prompt action, these incidents could have been reduced to a great extent. But the culprits are committing assaults with impunity,” Thorat said. In the Hathras case, the arrests took several days while the victim’s family accused the police of invoking gang-rape charges after a delay of more than a week. Nor did the police provide protection to the victim’s family, the NCDHR said. It demanded strict implementation of the SC/ST Atrocities Act and the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (Pocso) Act, and the fast-tracking of all cases of sexual assault on Dalit women and girls. It also demanded relief and rehabilitation for the survivors of caste and gender violence. According to the NCDHR statement, the 19-year-old Hathras victim was dragged, with her dupatta twined around her neck, into the field where she was gang-raped on September 14. She suffered severe spinal cord injuries that paralysed her from the waist down and also sustained a deep cut to her tongue. She died on Tuesday at a Delhi hospital. All the four accused are upper caste men. The inhumanity continued even after her death, the NCDHR said, referring to the police’s alleged act of cremating her without the consent or participation of her immediate family, who say the force locked them inside their home.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-637
01-10-2020||India||Priyanka to Yogi: What kind of CM are you?||The Congress has said that justice for the Hathras gang-rape victim who died on Tuesday entails Yogi Adityanath’s removal as chief minister, referring to the monk by his original name to question his spiritual accomplishments and highlight his caste. The party has described as a national shame the administration’s “criminal negligence” after the September 14 assault and its pre-dawn cremation of the Dalit girl’s body on Wednesday without the family’s consent or participation. The victim’s family says the police delayed invoking rape charges, denied the brutalised girl the best treatment, and smuggled her body out of a Delhi hospital to cremate it in her village after locking the family inside their home. While Priyanka Gandhi Vadra, general secretary in charge of Uttar Pradesh, sought Adityanath’s resignation, Mahila Congress chief Sushmita Dev demanded his dismissal. “The only way to give justice to the Hathras rape victim is to sack Ajay Singh Bisht. Nothing else will suffice,” Sushmita told a news conference. “The SIT (special investigation team) can probe the crime but what about the criminal negligence and the violation of human rights by forcibly cremating the body in the middle of the night?” Throughout the news conference, Congress spokespersons referred to the chief minister as Ajay Singh Bisht rather than Yogi Adityanath. Party sources later cited two reasons. One, calling him a yogi amounts to demeaning the spiritual tradition because he hasn’t shown the required sensitivity or compassion, they said. Two, his real identity needs to be stressed because of his brazen caste politics. Priyanka, who has instructed the Uttar Pradesh Congress to hold statewide demonstrations demanding the chief minister’s resignation, said in a video message: “The chief minister spoke on the ghastly crime today even as the incident happened on September 14. He said the SIT was constituted after the Prime Minister called. Were you waiting for the Prime Minister’s call? What were you doing for 15 days? Couldn’t even ensure proper treatment to the child? What kind of chief minister are you?” The victim’s brother has said the police got the girl treated at J.N. Hospital of the Aligarh Medical College before shifting her to Safdarjung Hospital in Delhi on September 27. All the while, he says, the force refused the family’s demand for AIIMS admission saying no beds were available there. “And what kind of conduct happened after the victim’s death? Who passed the order to snatch the body from the family to be burnt in that manner, after locking up the parents?” Priyanka said. “This showed how inhumane your government is. Why was the SIT not constituted on the day of the tragedy itself?” Priyanka had earlier tweeted: “Unbelievable inhumanity. Instead of stopping crime, you acted as criminals. You inflicted greater injuries on the family. Yogi Adityanath must resign.” Congress president Sonia Gandhi released a video message, saying: “The Hathras incident is a blot on society. Is it a crime to be a girl, a poor man’s daughter? The victim didn’t die; she was killed by the cruelty of the government, by the apathy of the administration.” She added: “When she was alive, she didn’t get security. After her death, she was confined to flames using the power of the police. Her body was not sent home, her mother couldn’t see her off the last time. Human existence has some dignity but that too was violated.” Sushmita said: “Why was the body cremated in the middle of the night without the family’s approval? What was Ajay Bisht trying to hide? Why was rape not mentioned in the original FIR? Ajay Bisht has crossed all limits. The nation will be ashamed if Prime Minister Narendra Modi doesn’t sack Bisht.” Dalit leader Udit Raj told the media conference: “Do you remember any other incident in which the administration burns the body in the middle of the night despite the family’s strong protests? They could do it because she was a Dalit. She was left to die without proper treatment because she was a Dalit. “Ajay Bisht has an anti-Dalit mindset. The RSS ideology is anti-Dalit; they want to crush the community so badly that they can’t fight for their rights. They want Dalits to live like slaves.” Many in Uttar Pradesh feel that the total dominance of Rajputs, the caste Adityanath belongs to, in the state has created social turmoil. “I must mention that all the accused are from Bisht’s caste. Out of 54 districts, officials from the same caste are posted in key positions in 39 districts,” Udit Raj said. “There has been a series of incidents. The goons are all Bisht supporters. He has to be removed to end the jungle raj.” Sushmita also targeted Union women and child development minister Smriti Irani. “There is not a word from the central minister though, like the Prime Minister, she comes from the same state. She is just a drama queen; a woman of no conviction, no integrity,” Sushmita said. “She now says rape should not be politicised. Prime Minister Modi told Delhi voters, ‘Nirbhaya ko yaad rakhna’ (an appeal to remember the December 2012 bus gang-rape victim). But now they are silent.” Rahul Gandhi tweeted: “A Dalit daughter is raped and murdered. Facts are suppressed. And finally, the right of conducting the last rites is snatched from the family. This is unjust and humiliating.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-638
01-10-2020||India||Delhi police detain rape protesters ||Police detained 80 people from Opposition-affiliated student, youth and women’s groups in the capital on Wednesday when they tried to protest outside Uttar Pradesh Bhavan against the gang rape and murder of a teenager in Hathras and her cremation by cops without her family’s participation. The protesters were later allowed to leave but not before they had been booked under sections of the Epidemic Act, Disaster Management Act and the Indian Penal Code, collectively punishable with up to 18 months in jail. Those detained include Mahila Congress president Sushmita Dev, CPM-backed All India Democratic Women’s Association general secretary Mariam Dhawale, CPIML-Liberation’s All India Students Association Delhi secretary Prasenjeet Kumar and activists of several Left groups, the Congress and the Bhim Army. Protests began on Tuesday outside Safdarjung Hospital after the brutalised Dalit girl breathed her last there. Later at night, JNU students blocked Baba Gangnath Marg outside the university and held a candlelight vigil. On Wednesday, the police and central forces picked up protesters as soon as they came near Uttar Pradesh Bhavan that had been barricaded, and whisked them away to police stations. “Low conviction rates, dysfunctional fast-track courts, namesake rehabilitation and inaction on errant policemen have led to the sense of impunity among perpetrators. The UP government is yet to act against errant senior officials indicted in the Unnao case. The message of the government is that they don’t take rapes seriously,” Dhawale told The Telegraph. Protesters who were let off later gathered at India Gate where they raised slogans in the evening before being detained again. Kumar said in a statement sent from the police bus: “We have been taken into detention with inhuman violence and harassment of women comrades. We are in a bus right now and do not know where the police are taking us. Many women were detained after 6pm and many people were injured. We demand immediate speedy trial in the rape case of the Dalit woman in Hathras. The case must be fast-tracked and justice ensured to the victim.” He added: “UP has become the national capital for violence against women and Dalits. The landlord Thakurs are dominating the state machinery with the hate politics of Hindutva garbing it. Our battle for the victim of Hathras symbolises our battle against the BJP’s upper caste hate politics.” Leaders and elected representatives of Delhi’s ruling AAP are expected to protest at Jantar Mantar on Thursday. On Tuesday, AAP legislators had been roughed up by the police and unidentified men at Safdarjung Hospital when they had enquired about the girl’s body. Delhi minister Rajendra Pal Gautam said: “We all know that yesterday midnight UP police denied the body of the survivor to her family. The police cremated the body without the permission of the family. We demand that an FIR be filed against the local SHO, ACP, DCP and other police officers who manhandled AAP MLA Ajay Dutt. We also demand an independent probe into the gang rape and murder case by the CBI.” He added: “The AAP demands speedy trial in the case and the filing of the chargesheet within two months. Thereafter the case must be heard in a fast-track court. We also demand that the UP government give Rs 2 crore to the (girl’s) family and a government job to a family member. We demand that the case be decided in a time-bound manner, the chargesheet be filed in two months and also the case be fast-tracked. Lastly, the AAP demands protection to the family members.” Delhi Pradesh Mahila Congress president Amrita Dhawan, who was detained outside Uttar Pradesh Bhavan on Wednesday afternoon, told reporters: “The Arvind Kejriwal government has spent only 5 per cent of the Nirbhaya Fund — only Rs 19 crore out of the total allocation of Rs 390 crore — set up to ensure the safety and security of women, which clearly points to its non-seriousness about women’s safety. They have not spent a rupee from the Rs 50 lakh for the women’s helpline, though Kejriwal and his backers BJP and RSS had held a big agitation over the (2012 Delhi bus rape and murder) case.” The Congress has complained to the National Human Rights Commission. Delhi Commission for Women chairperson Swati Maliwal has written to all judges of the Supreme Court demanding a court-monitored probe and immediate suspension of officers for trying to “cover up” the case.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-638
01-10-2020||India||Sushant’s kin thank Nitish for support||Bihar chief minister Nitish Kumar met deceased actor Sushant Singh Rajput’s father Krishna Kishore Singh at his official residence here on Wednesday, the visit being seen in political circles as a move to attract voters of the Rajput community from which the family hails. Krishna Kishore had come with his daughter Mitu Singh to Nitish’s residence at 1, Aney Marg to thank the chief minister for supporting their quest for justice for Sushant, who was found dead in his flat in Mumbai on June 14. Sushant’s father told Nitish that the CBI probe would not have been possible without his intervention and that Mumbai police would have taken the case into a completely different direction. “The probe is going on now. It had faltered earlier,” Krishna Kishore said. Nitish told Sushant’s father that his government had waited for his permission and concurrence to recommend the CBI probe. “We had thought that the all-India agency would be able to do better than somebody (Bihar police) from the state. They started the work,” Nitish said. “There was no cooperation from them (Mumbai police). An IPS officer was sent, but was quarantined. There were several issues.” Sources said Nitish told Sushant’s family members that he had “thought there was something wrong when the police officer was quarantined. And the Shiv Sena leaders were attacking me. So when Sushant’s father demanded a CBI probe, I recommended it”. Sushant’s case shot to limelight after his father registered an FIR in Patna against actor Rhea Chakraborty, her family members and others for abetment of suicide, cheating and criminal breach of trust. Nitish had not met or visited Krishna Kishore after Sushant’s death. At that time, Krishna Kishore had thanked Nitish for intervening and getting the FIR registered when the police were not keen. The political connotations of the meeting could not be missed as Bihar is scheduled to go to polls in October–November. Around 6 per cent of the electorate in Bihar are Rajputs. With a plethora of alliances ready to contest the Assembly elections and a strong resentment against the ruling NDA among certain sections of voters, votes belonging to every category are going to play a crucial role in the results. Nitish’s photograph with Sushant’s father is already circulating on media and social media platforms, sending a strong message that he cares about the case. A senior JDU leader defended Nitish’s action and said, “The BJP came out with posters, stickers and masks bearing Sushant’s pictures to keep the issue alive. What is wrong in our chief minister meeting the victim’s family members? Everybody knows that he has done a lot to ensure that justice is done to the deceased actor. Our party stands with his family.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-638
