02-10-2020||India||Protests erupt at Jantar Mantar for Hathras rape victim  ||A massive protest erupted in Delhi on Friday evening as hundreds of civil society activists, students, women and political leaders gathered at Jantar Mantar to demand justice for a young Dalit girl who was brutally murdered after being allegedly gangraped in Hathras district. Wearing masks and raising slogans against the UP administration for its blatant disregard for the rule of law, the gathering demanded justice for the 19-year-old victim and asked Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath to resign.
The protest was to be held at India Gate but had to be shifted to Jantar Mantar owing to the prohibitory orders in place in the Rajpath area. Several political leaders, including those from the Aam Aadmi Party and the Left, joined the protest.
Most of them said they were outraged over the way UP police cremated the body of the victim, who died in Delhi's Safdarjung Hospital, a fortnight after she was allegedly raped by four upper caste men.
The woman's family has alleged that the police forced them to conduct the last rites in the dead of the night. But local police officers have said the cremation was carried out "as per the wishes of the family".
"What is happening in UP is goondaraj," lawyer-activist Prashant Bhushan said.
"The police have surrounded the village, are not allowing Opposition leaders and mediapersons to enter it and have taken away the mobile phones of the family members of the victim."
Bollywood actor Swara Bhaskar, Bhim Army chief Chandrasekhar Azad, AAP MLA Saurabh Bhardwaj, Left leaders Prakash Karat and Sitaram Yechury also attended the protest.
Swaraj India leader Yogendra Yadav said the Hathras incident "brings out the complete breakdown of anything called “rule of law".
"It's not just that a rape happened, or that she was killed which is worse. There is a political patronage right from the beginning... The Uttar Pradesh administration is out there to ensure that this news doesn't come out," he said. Yadav alleged that the family was denied even a decent cremation for the victim, which even criminals are entitled to. Calling what happened a "shutdown of democracy", he said, "The UP government has no basis to exist anymore''.
Azad demanded that a fast-track court be set up to hear the case daily. "The culprits should be punished as soon as possible so that others get scared before committing such crimes. We will go to Hathras and till the time the matter doesn't come to Delhi, there is no chance of getting justice," he said.
Bhaskar said people from different groups have gathered at Jantar Mantar, which shows how enraged people are. "It is time we start fighting against the rape epidemic. Today, we are standing against it here and we have to win," she added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-633
02-10-2020||India||UP govt committed to women's safety, says Adityanath||Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath on Friday said his government is committed to women's safety and those who even think of harming their self-respect will face total destruction. "Total destruction of those who even think of harming the self respect of women in UP is inevitable," Adityanath said in a tweet in Hindi. Such people will get exemplary punishment that would be remembered by future generations, he said. "They will get such a punishment that it will set an example. The UP government is committed to the safety and development of mothers and daughters," he said, adding that "this is our resolve and promise." The Uttar Pradesh chief minister's statement comes days after a Dalit woman was gangraped in Hathras by four men. She died at Delhi's Safdarjung hospital on Tuesday morning. The TMC on Friday alleged that their MP's were manhandled while on their way to Hathras to meet the victim's family. Condemning the incident, TMC secretary-general Partha Chatterjee claimed that the Yogi Adityanath government has let loose a reign of terror and "crossed all limits of decency". "Is it a democracy? MPs are being heckled and pushed to the ground. How come police officers have this audacity to heckle members of Parliament? The state government, which has failed to protect to a Dalit girl and is busy hushing up the matter, is now using brute force against opposition," he said. Yogi Adityanath's declarations come amid concerted pressure on his government over a spate of horrific crimes against women; in the days following the Hathras tragedy - which occurred September 14 - at least two other assaults and alleged rapes - one on a eleven year old girl - were reported from the state. Bhim Army chief Chandrashekhar Azad, who today demanded answers from Narendra Modi and earlier told ndtv.com "don't expect justice in Uttar Pradesh", has been among those most vocal of those critics. On Thursday he demanded President's rule in the state, alleging "failure of constitutional machinery". The family of the young woman from Hathras has alleged multiple lapses from UP Police throughout the case, including not adding a rape charge against the four accused - all from the so-called upper castes - until a formal statement was made. The police also triggered outrage after rushing to cremate the women's body at 2.30 am, after allegedly locking up her family in their homes and preventing them from saying a final goodbye. Apart from opposition leaders like Rahul Gandhi, who slammed the UP government for "showing Dalits their place", Priyanka Gandhi Vadra and BSP chief Mayawati, prominent personalities and celebrities have also hit out at Yogi Adityanath government. "Law and order in UP has deteriorated to a great extent. There is no semblance of safety for women. The criminals are committing crimes in the open," Priyanka Gandhi Vadra said on Tuesday, tweeting: "@myogiadityanath you are accountable for the safety of women in UP". The Allahabad High Court has also taken notice of the case and has summoned top officials of government and police to appear before it on October 12. In its notice, the court said the matter was of "immense public importance... involves allegation of high-handedness by state authorities, resulting in violation of basic human and fundamental rights". Amid all the outrage, Yogi Adityanath also said that a three-member panel has been set up to investigate the crime and a report is expected within a week.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-633
02-10-2020||India||Congress ready with draft to counter Centre’s farm laws||The Congress has prepared a draft model law that will be legislated by party-ruled states in order to annul the Central farm laws. Sources said on Friday that the model law has been drafted and will soon be sent to Congress-ruled states to replicate it in their state assemblies. The Congress claims that rules under Article 245(2) allow a state legislature to enforce laws "repugnant to the Parliament law", a provision used by the BJP earlier against the central land acquisition Act. The model law brought by the Congress will be called the Protection of Farmers Interest and Farm Produce (Special Provisions) Bill that has been cleared by party MP and legal expert Abhishek Singhvi. The model law shall declare "null, void and inoperative" anything that is inconsistent in the three central legislations with the state law. It will also include a provision to ensure that no farmer shall be paid below the minimum support price (MSP) for the price of the produce. The draft model bill seeks to ensure safeguards for farmers including the minimum support price regime and the framework under the APMC Act to protect their interests. The move comes days after Congress chief Sonia Gandhi asked states under party's rule to enact legislations to bypass Centre's three farm-related laws that have triggered protests by farmers. The move also comes ahead of tractor rallies to be taken out by the Congress in Punjab and Haryana from October 4, in which party leader Rahul Gandhi will participate. The rallies are part of Congress agitations against the farm legislations. The Congress is strongly opposing the three legislations and it has launched countrywide protests in each district and Vidhan Sabha constituency on Gandhi Jayanti. The Congress president had advised Congress-ruled states to pass laws in their respective states under Article 254(2) of the Constitution which allows the state legislatures to pass a law to "negate anti-agriculture central laws" that "encroach" upon the state's jurisdiction under the Constitution. The sources said that while Congress-ruled states are set to pass the law, some of the non-NDA ruled states are also likely to pass it, as they are opposed to the central farm legislations. Parliament had passed The Farmers' Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Bill, 2020, The Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement of Price Assurance and Farm Services Bill, 2020 and The Essential Commodities (Amendment) Bill 2020 during the Monsoon Session and the president granted his assent for them. The laws seek to liberalise the agriculture sector and allow farmers to sell their produce anywhere in the country they want at a better price.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-634
02-10-2020||India||SP workers protesting Hathras incident lathi charged by police in Lucknow ||Samajwadi Party workers were on Friday lathi charged by the police in Hazratganj area here while they were taking out a protest march against the Hathras gangrape and farm laws. The march which started from the party office was supposed to end at the Gandhi statue in the city where the MLAs and senior party leaders were scheduled to begin a 'maun vrat' (vow of silence). However, the protesters were stopped at Hazratganj crossing, where police had put up barricades. As the SP workers insisted on being allowed to move ahead, a heated argument ensued between the two sides following which police personnel resorted to lathi charge to disperse the crowd. "Today, by arresting party MLAs and senior leaders, going to sit on 'Maun Vrat" and dharna for 'Hathras ki beti', government suppressed the voice of truth in a violent way on the birth anniversaries of Gandhi and Lal Bahadur Shastri. This is condemnable," the party's national president Akhliesh Yadav said. We demand an FIR against the District Magistrate and Superintendent of Police of Hathras, he said. "Stopping of peaceful foot march of SP MLAs and leaders on the directives of the chief minister is murder of democracy," the party said. However, the state police said that the action was taken to maintain the state's law and order. "We have detained SP workers including some MLAs. They have been taken away from the spot (Hazratganj)," a senior police officer said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-634
02-10-2020||India||TMC MPs manhandled and stopped from meeting Hathras victim's kin||The TMC on Friday lashed out at the Uttar Pradesh government for unleashing "jungle raj" in the northern state, after its four-member delegation was stopped from meeting the family members of Hathras gang-rape victim. The BJP unit of Bengal, however, asked the TMC to stop "politicising the death" and take a look at its own track record when it came to tackling crimes against women. A statement issued by the party said the delegation, led by the party's Rajya Sabha MP Derek O' Brien, wanted to meet the family members of the 19-year-old Dalit woman, and express their solidarity with her grieving parents. Dr Kakoli Ghosh Dastidar, Pratima Mondal and Mamata Thakur, all parliamentarians, were the three other members of the delegation. Condemning the incident, TMC secretary-general Partha Chatterjee claimed that the Yogi Adityanath government has let loose a reign of terror and "crossed all limits of decency". "Is it a democracy? MPs are being heckled and pushed to ground. How come police officers have this audacity to heckle members of Parliament? The state government, which has failed to protect to a Dalit girl and is busy hushing up the matter, is now using brute force against opposition," he said. Television visuals showed O'Brien, dressed in white, being pushed to the ground when he tried to move ahead, despite being told not to do so by the police. "Those who tried to project themselves as champions of 'Beti Bachao' (campaign) are now trying to intimidate the family members of the girl. A jungle raj prevails in Uttar Pradesh. It's a shame," he said. Senior TMC leader Sougata Roy said the UP government was trying to "hide the truth". "The Yogi Adityanath government is trying to hide the truth, which is why it is stopping the media and the opposition party leaders from meeting the family members. Our MPs were unarmed and they just wanted to meet the family, what is wrong in it? They so afraid that they had to issue prohibitory orders... We condemn it," Roy said. The party's official Twitter handle said its MPs are staging a "dharna around a kilometre away from victim's home, after being manhandled and roughed up by the UP police". State BJP president Dilip Ghosh, however, slammed the TMC for trying to "politicise" the issue. "The TMC should stop this drama. What is its track record in dealing with crimes against women? They (TMC leaders) should first look at their own track record and then lecture others. The UP government has taken action to deal with the situation," he said. Congress leaders Rahul Gandhi, Priyanka Gandhi Vadra and around 150 of their party workers were briefly detained in Greater Noida on Thursday for alleged violation of prohibitory orders while walking towards Hathras to meet the family. The 19-year-old was allegedly raped by four upper- caste men in Hathras on September 14. She was referred to the Safdarjung hospital in Delhi on Monday with spinal cord injuries, paralysis and cuts in her tongue. She died around 3 am on Tuesday.Her subsequent cremation in the dead of night at Hathras, allegedly under police pressure, has led to an outrage over the law and order situation in UP.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-634
02-10-2020||India||SC rejects  PIL on Centre’s Covid ‘mishandling’||The Supreme Court on Thursday rejected a PIL filed by retired bureaucrats alleging gross mismanagement of the Covid-19 pandemic by the Centre as the number of those infected by the virus has crossed 63 lakh in the country. Advocate Prashant Bhushan, through whom the petition has been filed, told a bench headed by Justice L. N. Rao that on February 4, the ministry of home affairs (MHA) had issued an advisory, but international passengers were not screened until March 4. Bhushan said the “Namaste Trump” event was allowed to happen on February 24 and one lakh people had gathered at a stadium despite the advisory that crowding should be avoided. He submitted that experts had advised against a full lockdown due to which the GDP contracted by an unprecedented 23 per cent, while crores of jobs were lost and the economy destroyed. Bhushan contended that the government has been unable to control the pandemic and according to official figures, the virus has infected over 63 lakh people. The lawyer claimed that the government unilaterally announced the lockdown without consulting the experts. He said before the imposition of the lockdown, no steps were taken to procure personal protective equipment (PPE) kits because of which several doctors lost their lives. He said several policemen have also lost their lives to Covid and added these issues require inquiry. Bhushan said, according to figures, over two crore salaried people have lost their jobs. He also referred to the issue of migration during the lockdown and said that the infection has spread across the country. The bench said this is a matter for public debate, not for the court and “we are not inclined to interfere”. It added that these are matters for the government to look into and the authorities should be given the latitude. The petition filed by a group of petitioners, including retired bureaucrats, alleged that the Centre failed to undertake timely and effective measures for containing transmission of the virus and an independent inquiry by a commission, appointed under the Commissions of Inquiry Act 1952, was essential to inquire into the “lapses”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-634
02-10-2020||India||In Covid battle, signal to deploy horse sense  ||India’s health research agency on Thursday signalled its intention to use antibodies extracted from horse blood to treat patients with severe coronavirus disease, planning to extend a decades-old strategy used against tetanus, rabies and snakebites. The Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) and the Hyderabad-based company Biological E have developed “highly purified antisera” — serums loaded with antibodies against SARS-CoV-2, the virus that causes Covid-19 — for possible use on patients, the ICMR announced. The equine — or horse-derived — antisera are expected to serve as a fast-acting therapy for patients with severe Covid-19 but would need to be evaluated through human clinical trials, a senior ICMR official told The Telegraph. Horses have to be exposed to the infection for them to develop antibodies in their bloodstream. Researchers in Argentina and Brazil are also pursuing equine antisera. Studies in Brazil have suggested that equine-produced serum is superior to the convalescent plasma extracted from patients who have recovered from Covid-19. “We expect equine antisera to be a standardised product with antibody concentrations much higher than those present in convalescent plasma,” the ICMR official said. While antisera and convalescent plasma both contain virus-neutralising antibodies, researchers expect the antisera to be more effective because of higher antibody concentrations. A nationwide trial on convalescent plasma conducted by the ICMR earlier this year had not found any effect on either mortality or severe coronavirus disease. Some scientists have speculated that the lack of effect could have been a result of low antibody concentrations in the plasma. The ICMR official said the clinical trials on the antisera were likely to be conducted only on patients with moderate to severe disease but did not specify any timetable for the trials. “There is no vaccine against Covid-19 on the horizon yet — the antisera strategy has been used against diphtheria, tetanus, rabies and snakebites. This could be tried against Covid,” asenior clinician-researcher said. The antisera therapy is designed to work like a medicine. While the body’s immune system begins to mount an attack shortly after the viral infection, researchers say, if the viral load is particularly large, there is a window of time before the immune system can clear the virus. The antisera represents a potential complementary strategy to treat Covid-19 which currently relies primarily on supportive therapy, steroids, oxygen and experimental medications such as the anti-virals remdesivir and favipiravir and anti-inflammatory drugs. Brazilian researchers had in August published a report showing equine antisera as superior to convalescent plasma. They had estimated that because one horse can be bled around six times a year without causing the animal any suffering, they could produce 100,000 ampoules, or doses, per year relying on 80 horses. While equine antisera containing a mix of antibodies has been in use as therapy in other infections, some scientists have underlined that research groups across the world are trying to develop “monoclonal antibodies” — a superior alternative to the equine antisera that may be associated with side-effects.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-634
02-10-2020||India||NHRC seeks Centre’s explanation over freezing of Amnesty’s accounts||The National Human Rights Commission (NHRC) on Wednesday sought an explanation from the ministry of home affairs over the Centre’s decision to freeze the bank accounts of Amnesty International, bringing all its human rights activities across the country to a halt. Taking suo motu cognisance of news reports, NHRC chairperson and former Chief Justice of India H.L. Dattu directed issuance of notice to the home secretary and ministry of home affairs, calling for their comments on the allegations levelled by Amnesty International that the complete freezing of its India bank accounts has halted all the work in which it has been engaged in the country. “The commission has carefully examined the contents of the news report. The Amnesty International is a reputed non-governmental organisation raising its voice globally whenever there is an incident of violation of human rights. The allegations levelled by the organisation are serious in nature and have been strongly answered by the government agency. “Any kind of difference of opinion may be a subject of investigation and decision by the competent court. The commission finds it necessary to go through the matter, analyse the facts and reach a conclusion in the interest of human rights friendly environment in the country,” the NHRC said, while seeking the government’s response within six weeks. In a statement on Tuesday, Amnesty International had said it has been compelled to let go of staff in India and pause all its ongoing campaign and research work. It was alleged that this is the latest in the incessant witch-hunt of human rights organisations by the Government of India over unfounded and motivated allegations. Amnesty International had claimed that on October 22, 2019, it had testified at the US Congressional hearing on human rights in South Asia, with specific focus on Jammu & Kashmir after the Indian Parliament on August 5, 2019, pushed through constitutional changes that divested Jammu & Kashmir of its special status and reorganised it into two Union Territories. On August 28, the rights group released an investigative brief on the alleged complicity of Delhi police in communal riots in the national capital in February 2020. Amnesty International had claimed that 53 people had died in the riot while Delhi police rebutted the claim, saying the report was lopsided, biased and malicious. Amnesty International has reportedly accused the government of suppressing the speech and demanded the release of activists Rona Wilson, Shoma Sen, Sudha Bhardwaj, Surendra Gadling and others who were arrested in connection with the January 2018, caste clashes in Bhima-Koregaon near Pune. It is also mentioned in the news report that this is the fifth time when Amnesty International is closing down its office in India. The Union home ministry had, however, rejected the allegations saying the   stand taken by the Amnesty International is unfortunate, exaggerated and far from the truth. The organisation has been accused of Foreign Contribution Regulation Act (FCRA) violations, and “interference in domestic police debates” despite being funded by foreign donations. The rights group has reportedly denied the financial violations charges and has said they have been in full compliance with all laws. It also said the Enforcement Directorate (ED) has been investigating the rights group since October 2018, when they raided its office in Bangalore and the accounts of the organisation were frozen. In 2019, the income tax department wrote to the office bearers of the organisation seeking their clarifications on the subject. It is also mentioned that in November 2019, the CBI has filed a case against the Amnesty International alleging that it has received Rs 36 crore in funding without the mandatory permission required under the FCRA. The investigative agencies have also reportedly alleged that the fund raising model of Amnesty International India was in violation of the FCRA that amounts to money laundering. The organisation has also been blamed for their activities, which are in clear contravention of laid down Indian laws. The organisation has reportedly stated that their harassment by the government is a result of their unequivocal calls for transparency in the government, more recently for accountability of Delhi police and the Government of India regarding the grave human rights violations in Delhi riots and in Jammu & Kashmir. The charges of the organisation have, however, been denied by the BJP alleging that the organisation was raising funds from abroad in contravention of the Indian laws. They have also stated that there has been shifting money transfer to the companies and there is suspected flow of money into the trust of Amnesty International.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-634
02-10-2020||India||Gujarat government’s Covid economic slowdown excuse flops ||The Supreme Court on Thursday rebuffed the Gujarat government’s invocation of “internal disturbances” and “public emergency” to curb workers’ rights in Covid-19 season, ruling that the pandemic-induced economic slowdown did not amount to any such exigency. The court quashed two notifications issued by Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s home state that had allowed factories to deny overtime pay and adequate rest to their workers. “Even if we were to accept the respondent’s (Gujarat government’s) argument at its highest, that the pandemic has resulted in an internal disturbance, we find that the economic slowdown created by the Covid-19 pandemic does not qualify as an internal disturbance threatening the security of the state,” the bench of Justices D.Y. Chandrachud, Indu Malhotra and K.M. Joseph ruled. It said the workers were the worst victims of the Covid-19 outbreak and that the notifications’ intent seemed to be to reduce “overhead costs of all factories” and “capitalise on the pandemic to force an already worn-down class into the chains of servitude”. The bench directed that “overtime wages shall be paid... to all eligible workers who have been working since the issuance of the notifications”. The April 17 and July 20 notifications, issued under Section 5 of the Factories Act, had exempted factories “from various provisions relating to weekly hours, daily hours, intervals for rest etc for adult workers” between April 20 and October 19. The Gujarat Mazdoor Sabha and another trade union had challenged the notifications. Writing the judgment, Justice Chandrachud acknowledged that the pandemic had burdened the country’s public health infrastructure and reduced economic activities. “However, it has not affected the security of India, or of a part of its territory, in a manner that disturbs the peace and integrity of the country,” he wrote. “The economic hardships caused by Covid-19 certainly pose unprecedented challenges to governance. However, such challenges are to be resolved by the state governments within the domain of their functioning under the law, in coordination with the central government. “Unless the threshold of an economic hardship is so extreme that it leads to disruption of public order and threatens the security of India or of a part of its territory, recourse cannot be taken to such emergency powers, which are to be used sparingly under the law.” The court said that under Article 352, an internal disturbance must be of the order of an armed rebellion threatening the security of India to merit the proclamation of an emergency. Similarly, to warrant President’s rule in a state under Article 356, the internal disturbance must be serious enough to prevent the state’s governance in accordance with the Constitution. “The power under Section 5 of the Factories Act can be exercised in a ‘public emergency’. The explanation states that to constitute a public emergency, there must be a grave emergency. The emergency must be of such a nature as to threaten the security of India or a part of its territory,” the court said. “The threat to the security of India or a part of the territory must be caused by war, external aggression or an internal disturbance. The expression ‘internal disturbance’ cannot be divorced from its context, or be read in a manner divorced from the other two expressions which precede it.” Justice Chandrachud said the notifications were an “affront” to the workers’ right to life and right against forced labour and legitimised their subjection to onerous working conditions at a time their feeble bargaining power stood further whittled by the pandemic. “Clothed with exceptional powers under Section 5, the state cannot permit workers to be exploited in a manner that renders the hard-won protections of the Factories Act, 1948, illusory and the constitutional promise of social and economic democracy into paper tigers. It is ironical that this result should ensue at a time when the state must ensure their welfare,” he wrote. “A worker’s right to life cannot be deemed contingent on the mercy of their employer or the state. The notifications, in denying humane working conditions and overtime wages provided by law, are an affront to the workers’ right to life and right against forced labour that are secured by Articles 21 and 23 of the Constitution.” The judgment said the Indian Constitution was born out of a “transformative vision” to achieve social and economic democracy, and labour welfare was an integral part of that vision. “The need for protecting labour welfare on one hand and combating a public health crisis occasioned by the pandemic on the other may require careful balances. But these balances must accord with the rule of law,” it said. “It cannot be interpreted to provide a free rein for the state to eliminate provisions promoting dignity and equity in the workplace in the face of novel challenges to the state administration, unless they bear an immediate nexus to ensuring the security of the state against the gravest of threats.” The state government had through solicitor-general Tushar Mehta argued that the pandemic was a “public emergency” as defined in Section 5, and had disturbed the “social order of the country” while threatening the even tempo of life in Gujarat. The pandemic had caused “extreme financial exigencies” in the state and the lockdown slowed economic activities, leading to an “internal disturbance” in the state, it had said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-634
02-10-2020||India||India warns critics over Amnesty||India on Thursday said it expected foreign governments not to condone the contravention of Indian laws by any entity, pushing back on the criticism that New Delhi had been receiving from world capitals for the closure of Amnesty International India earlier this week. Amnesty India had cited “incessant witch-hunt” by the Narendra Modi government as the reason for halting its operations. Referring to the home ministry’s explanation that it acted against Amnesty India for violating Foreign Contribution (Regulation) Act (FCRA) norms, foreign ministry spokesperson Anurag Srivastava said: “NGOs are expected to adhere to all our laws, including in respect to foreign funding, just as they presumably would in other countries, including in the US and the EU. We also expect that other governments would not condone contravention of Indian laws by any entity.” Amnesty International, a Nobel Peace Prize-winning human rights organisation, has denied any FCRA violation. The home ministry has said Amnesty is free to continue humanitarian work in India, provided it does not interfere in domestic political debates as Indian law does not allow entities funded by foreign donations to do so. The US, UK and the European Union have expressed concern at the closure of Amnesty International India, as have a large number of international human rights organisations. While the UK and the EU have taken the matter up with the external affairs ministry through diplomatic channels in New Delhi, a US state department official told reporters in Washington on Wednesday that the issue had “received attention at the highest levels of our government”. According to this official, not only was the US government following the development very closely, the matter was also being raised by members of the US Congress. “We look forward to a response and a resolution to a situation that’s consistent with international principles and the rule of law,” the official said. The United States Commission on International Religious Freedom, a bipartisan federal government body, too has voiced concern. The USCIRF said in a tweet that it “is concerned by reports of the halting of operations of @AIIndia, particularly since it appears related to Amnesty’s investigations into and reporting on religious freedom violations in India”. On Wednesday, 15 international human rights organisations had condemned the Indian government’s actions against Amnesty India and pledged to continue support for local human rights defenders and outfits against crackdowns. The 15 organisations include Human Rights Watch, Global Indian Progressive Alliance, International Commission of Jurists, Hindus for Human Rights and South Asians for Human Rights. In a joint statement they said the actions of the BJP government against human rights defenders, academics and student activists “increasingly mimic that of authoritarian regimes which do not tolerate any criticism and shamelessly target those who dare to speak out”. Amnesty International India’s executive director, Avinash Kumar, had said in a statement announcing the closure on Tuesday: “The continuing crackdown on Amnesty International India over the last two years and the complete freezing of bank accounts is not accidental. The constant harassment by government agencies including ED is a result of our unequivocal calls for transparency in the government, more recently for accountability of the Delhi police and the Government of India regarding the grave human rights violations in Delhi riots and Jammu & Kashmir. For a movement that has done nothing but raise its voice against injustice, this latest attack is akin to freezing dissent.” The Union home ministry had in a statement dismissed the allegation of witch-hunt and said that successive governments had rejected Amnesty’s repeated applications for permission to receive foreign funds.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-634
02-10-2020||India||Supreme Court sets timetable for airline ticket refund||The Supreme Court on Thursday directed airlines to refund within three weeks to all passengers, domestic and international, the prices of tickets cancelled during the lockdown between March 25 and May 24. The court said that for tickets cancelled during the pandemic but outside the lockdown period, an airline would be allowed in case of “financial distress” to offer a credit shell that a passenger would be able to cash till March 31 next year. The passenger will be able to use the credit shell, the value of which will be the same as that of the fare plus a monthly interest, on any route of their choice or transfer the voucher to some other person or travel agent. If the credit shell is not used by the deadline, the airline will have to refund the price of the cancelled ticket to the passenger. Some airlines had wanted the credit shell facility to be extended till March 31, 2022, but the court rejected the plea. The bench of Justices Ashok Bhushan, R. Subhash Reddy and M.R. Shah passed the directives while disposing of petitions filed by the NGO Pravasi Legal and others challenging airlines’ refusal to refund the fares for tickets cancelled during the pandemic. “If on account of financial distress, any airline/ airlines are not able to do so, they shall provide a credit shell, equal to the amount of the fare collected, in the name of the passenger when the booking is done either directly by the passenger or through travel agent so as to consume the same on or before March 31, 2021,” the court said. This facility will be available only if the flight cancellation is outside the lockdown period, the court made it clear. “It is open to the passenger either to utilise such credit shell up to March 31, 2021, on any route of his choice or the passenger can transfer the credit shell to any person including the travel agent through whom he/ she had booked the ticket and the airlines shall honour such a transfer by devising a mechanism to facilitate such a transfer,” Justice Reddy said. For tickets booked or transferred to a third party through an agent, refund or credit shell transactions will have to be done through the agent. Also, the money will be refunded to the account from which the airline had received the booking amount. Airlines opting for the credit shell will have to pay an interest of 0.5 per cent on the ticket amount every month for tickets booked between March 25 and June 30. The interest rate for subsequent months till March 2021 will be 0.75 per cent. The court said the suggestions and formulations, arrived at during a meeting of the civil aviation ministry and the directorate-general of civil aviation, were acceptable to the majority of the stakeholders and would have to be implemented in letter and spirit. “We also feel that such formulations are workable solutions in these peculiar circumstances which are prevailing in the country,” the bench said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-634
02-10-2020||India||Near Delhi, Opposition tastes what China didn’t||Uttar Pradesh police roughed up Rahul Gandhi on Thursday while preventing him from meeting the family of the Hathras gang-rape-and-murder victim, a day after the force had burnt the Dalit girl’s body while locking the parents up. “You pushed me; you hit me with a lathi. I fell down,” Rahul, who suffered minor injuries to his hand, was heard screaming at officers. Rahul was pushed to the ground while scores of party leaders were injured in a baton charge as the police used force to stop a Congress team on its way to Hathras. The police later arrested Rahul along with Priyanka Gandhi Vadra and other senior politicians. This was Rahul’s first outing amid the Covid-19 restrictions, and it triggered drama on the streets while generating considerable political impact. Congress leaders voiced outrage at the police behaviour and the “low-level politics” of the ruling BJP. They condemned the manhandling as an attempt to intimidate Rahul. Congress ally Sharad Pawar too castigated the police. Congress chief ministers Amarinder Singh (Punjab), Ashok Gehlot (Rajasthan) and Bhupesh Baghel (Chhattisgarh) described the police’s misbehaviour with Rahul as “dangerous” for democracy. Alleging the BJP was throttling democracy, former Union minister Jairam Ramesh said: “While the Hathras horror is the direct and disastrous consequence of Yogi’s complete misrule, let’s not forget its foundations — NaMo-cracy.” Rahul is scheduled to visit Punjab on Saturday to participate in the farmers’ agitation. He won’t be facing any physical obstruction in the Congress-ruled state where Amarinder has extended full support to the protests. Rahul may also visit BJP-ruled Haryana. Apparently rattled by the outcry over the Hathras atrocities — the alleged bid to protect the accused, denial of adequate treatment to the girl, and the burning of her body without the family’s consent — the Yogi Adityanath government had acted swiftly on learning that Rahul and Priyanka intended to visit the village. It sealed the borders of Hathras and prohibited assemblies under Section 144. While it was widely expected that the Congress team would not be allowed to enter Uttar Pradesh and might be stopped at the Delhi-Noida border, it was eventually able to travel around 50km inside the state. With the word having spread since morning, over 100 vehicles carrying Congress workers joined Rahul’s convoy, which was stopped after Greater Noida. Police officers requested Rahul to return as Section 144 was in force but he insisted on visiting Hathras. He said he was ready to travel alone to avoid violating the section and asked under which law he was being stopped. Rahul asked: “Will only Narendra Modi walk freely in India? Nobody except RSS-BJP has the freedom to go anywhere? Is meeting the family of a rape victim a crime?”He managed to cover 10km along the Yamuna Expressway on foot despite several attempts by the police to stop him. With the crowds swelling, the police finally used force. During a scuffle between Congress leaders and policemen, an officer pushed Rahul and the MP fell. Uttar Pradesh Congress president Ajay Kumar Lallu was heard shouting: “You beat up Rahulji. Who ordered a lathi-charge?” Rahul was accompanied, apart from Priyanka and Lallu, by K.C. Venugopal, Randeep Surjewala, Adhir Chowdhury, Jitin Prasada, P.L. Punia, Sushmita Dev, Deepender Hooda, B.V. Srinivas and others. Congress leaders said at least a dozen party workers had received serious injuries in the baton charge. Priyanka said: “Let them treat us with brutal force but what they did with the Dalit family cannot be tolerated. The government which invokes Hindu religion at every stage didn’t allow the parents to conduct the last rites of their daughter.” Around 3.40pm, the police lifted Rahul and Priyanka off the Yamuna Expressway along with the other leaders. While Rahul and Priyanka and a few senior leaders were taken to the Buddha International Centre in Greater Noida, the rest were whisked away to Surajpur police station. They were later brought to the Delhi-Noida border in the evening and set free. Rahul tweeted during the agitation: “You don’t abandon your own in times of misery. The jungle-raj in Uttar Pradesh has acquired such dimensions that even the intention to meet a grieving family scares the government. Honourable chief minister, don’t get frightened.” In another tweet he said: “BJP’s objective is not beti bachao. It is suppress facts and save government.” Priyanka tweeted: “An arrogant government is demonstrating its brute power over the dead bodies of innocent girls. Instead of fighting injustice, the government is inflicting injustice. We will continue our struggle for a safe and secure society for women where they can live freely and pursue their dreams.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-634
02-10-2020||India||Dad’s ambition can’t decide army selection: Delhi High Court||A father’s ambition does not define the standards of selection as a commissioned officer in the Indian Army, Delhi High Court has held while refusing to direct the Indian Military Academy (IMA) to take back a candidate who was found unsuitable for the military lifestyle. The candidate, son of a lieutenant colonel and a fourth-generation career seeker in the army, had joined the IMA in July 2017 for pre-commissioning training. However, he was ordered to be withdrawn from the academy in November 2019. A bench of Justices Rajiv Sahai Endlaw and Asha Menon noted that the candidate’s father, a serving senior army officer, had made a fervent plea to consider the case of his son leniently. The father had said commissioning of his son as an army officer would mean a lot to him as it would be the fourth generation from his family to join the force. “While it may be possible for us to sympathise with the Lt Col, it is not a father’s ambition that defines the standards for selection as a commissioned officer in the Indian Army,” the high court said. The bench noted that the records had revealed that the candidate was finding it difficult to settle into the regimented and highly disciplined lifestyle at the IMA. He used to absent himself from training and special and critical events by malingering or reporting sick and it was this absenteeism and lying that led to him being punished several times and the constitution of an honour code committee against him, the court said. The bench said it was amply clear that the petitioner was not suited to a military lifestyle and possibly the desires of his father had pushed him into choosing the profession, adding that he had struggled to meet filial expectations. “The father would be well advised to allow his son the freedom to choose his life path and allow him to blossom forth in whatever he so chooses, which is certainly not the Indian Army,” the court said in the judgment. “The petitioner and his father would do well to accept the decision of the IMA gracefully and utilise all the learning in the two years spent by the petitioner at the IMA to work towards a bright future in any other chosen field. There is no merit in the present petition which is accordingly dismissed,” it added. According to the petition, the candidate had said he should have passed out after completing his course as a commissioned officer in a year and a half, by the end of 2018. He said he was subjected to ragging and punishments for various infractions from the beginning of the first term. The candidate was served a showcause notice a week before the second term came to an end in May 2018, asking why he should not be relegated for having accumulated 60 restrictions in two terms. He had to repeat the second term in the next two sessions. The candidate had claimed that despite his sincere and best efforts, he was unnecessarily targeted and singled out by his company commander. Regarding the final physical training tests, the petitioner said he was made to stand outside the battalion duty officer’s room with 40kg of sand and bricks filled into a pack for three hours from 11pm. The candidate said his exhaustion as a result had led to him failing to clear three subsequent tests. In November 2019, he was handed more punishments after which his name was withdrawn from the IMA.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-635
02-10-2020||India||3 soldiers killed in Pakistan ceasefire violation||Three soldiers were killed and five injured in separate incidents during shelling by Pakistan along the LoC in Jammu and Kashmir. The Indian troops gave a “befitting” response, a defence spokesperson said. The shelling, which had picked up after the flare-up on the Line of Actual Control with China, has intensified in the past two days, sources said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-635
02-10-2020||India||Alliances are raining down on poll-season Bihar ||Alliances are sprouting like mushrooms in poll-bound Bihar. The state has never before witnessed so many tie-ups in any elections. Four new alliances have come up in the recent weeks, while a couple more are expected to be constituted in the coming days, indicating a churn in state politics. At present, there are six alliances contending to attract the voters. There were just two alliances in the state till around a month ago — the ruling National Democratic Alliance (NDA) consisting of chief minister Nitish Kumar’s Janata Dal United (JDU), the BJP and Union minister Ram Vilas Paswan’s LJP (Lok Janshakti Party); and the Opposition Grand Alliance led by Lalu Prasad’s Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD), the Congress and a few smaller parties. However, four new alliances have come into existence since then. With elections approaching, the All India Majlis-e-Ittehadul Muslimeen (AIMIM) of Hyderabad MP Asaduddin Owaisi rushed in to form the United Democratic Secular Alliance (UDSA) with former Union minister Devendra Prasad Yadav’s Samajwadi Janata Dal (Democratic). It was followed quickly by Bhim Army’s Azad Samaj Party tying up with Rajesh Ranjan alias Pappu Yadav’s Jan Adhikar Party (JAP) to form the Progressive Democratic Alliance (PDA). The Social Democratic Front of India (SDPI), the political outfit of Popular Front of India (PFI), and Bahujan Mukti Party are its members. Then, former Union minister Upendra Kushwaha led his Rashtriya Lok Samta Party (RLSP) into an alliance with former Uttar Pradesh chief minister Mayawati’s Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP). A lesser-known Janwadi Socialist Party is also a partner. The alliance is yet to be given a formal name. Former BJP leader Yashwant Sinha is heading a 20-party United Democratic Alliance. Several individual leaders, who were popular among the masses at one time or another, are also with this alliance of smaller parties, which intends to contest all 243 Assembly seats in the state. Though boasting of several parties as members and a few senior, well-known politicians, the new alliances cannot be said to present a strong alternative to the NDA or the Grand Alliance. Taking the 2015 Assembly election results and the performance of political parties into account, each of the newly formed alliances have less than 5 per cent votes with them. Taking into account the vote percentage of the individual parties in the previous Assembly elections, the NDA has a claim on 45 per cent of votes, while the Grand Alliance has a share of around 27 per cent votes. However, these two major alliances have seen upheaval in the recent years with Nitish’s JDU quitting the Grand Alliance to join the NDA, and a few other smaller parties changing sides. Political analysts are viewing this as a manifestation of gross opportunism in parliamentary democracy where politicians are focusing on politics without principles and ideology and treating it as a career option. Former director and professor of Patna-based A.N. Sinha Insitute of Social Studies, D.M. Diwakar, said: “The new alliances are an example of politics without principles and how parties without a strong set of ideology find it easy to shift from one side to another. The leaders who formed these alliances did so when they did not get a place in the NDA or Grand Alliance as per their fancy.” Interestingly, all the new alliances are clear about one thing. They are against the BJP and the NDA. This will ultimately benefit the party or the alliance they are opposing. “The BJP or the NDA will benefit from these new alliances because they will divide the secular votes. This scenario will ensure that the present ruling dispensation is able to beat the anti-incumbency factor and return to power. There are indications that BJP’s hand could be there in the creation of some of the alliances,” Diwakar said. Apart from the six alliances, the Left parties could also form a separate alliance to contest the polls as they are not happy with the seat-sharing proposals of the Grand 
Alliance. Plurals, a party formed in March and led by a London School of Economics passout Pushpam Priya Choudhary, is also in the fray. The Bihar polls will be held in three phases on October 28, November 3 and 7. The results will come out on November 10 and they will show the exact influence of the new alliances on Bihar polity and elections.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-635
02-10-2020||India||Bihar Assembly elections: Clock ticks as RJD-Congress ties turn frosty||The alliance between Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD) and Congress was on the brink of collapse and there was no communication between the two parties over the past few days even as the election process formally started on Thursday. Senior leaders of both the parties appeared extremely pessimistic about a last-minute deal and privately conceded that the ties had strained inexplicably after a broad understanding much earlier to fight the election together. The Congress has already started working on Plan B, asking senior leaders to suggest names for all the 243 Assembly seats. A senior Congress leader told The Telegraph, “We are completely bewildered by the RJD’s attitude. We still want the alliance, as a break-up at this stage will be like giving victory to the BJP on a platter. It is not about the number of seats, it is about attitude. The RJD has not been talking to us, they are threatening us through media. Even now, the alliance can be salvaged, if they don’t have any hidden agenda.” The RJD leaders spoke of unreasonable demands by the Congress and conceded that the relations were strained. “I stay positive,” a senior RJD leader said, while admitting a crisis. The RJD believes that the Congress should have accepted the offer of 58 seats. The Congress says the exit of Nitish Kumar first and Upendra Kushwaha later freed up a large number of seats and there should be reasonable distribution. If the issues are not sorted out within the next two days, both the parties will fight separately. Leaders of both the parties hope a talk between Rahul Gandhi and Tejashwi Yadav will finally clinch the deal. Bihar in-charge of Congress Shaktisinh Gohil is going to Patna on Thursday night as party chief Sonia Gandhi will kick-start the campaign on Friday through a virtual rally. There are chances that Gohil will also give the party symbol to sitting MLAs, allowing them to file their nominations.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-635
02-10-2020||India||Odisha Assembly passes Epidemic bill ||The Odisha Assembly on Wednesday passed the Epidemic Diseases (Amendment) Bill 2020 that envisages a fine upto Rs 1 lakh and imprisonment up to two years or both for anyone violating the Covid guidelines. Though the Opposition maintained it was too harsh and demanded that the quantum of punishment be reduced, the government said that it was necessary at this point to check the rising number of Covid patients. The Opposition accused the government of bringing the amendment with the sole purpose of silencing people who were criticising the government for its failure in Covid management.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-635
02-10-2020||India||Bid to save musth elephant||A dozen forest officials and 20 Gajabandhus have been on their toes round the clock for past three days in the dense forests of Athgarh, about 65 km from here, to save a musth tusker from suspected poachers and angry villagers whose crops it has damaged. The tusker has caused largescale depredation in the Athgarh-Angul belt. A male elephant in musth is characterised by extremely aggressive behaviour because of a steep rise in its testosterone levels. Gajabandhus are village volunteers who help forest officials save elephants in danger, especially when they come in conflict with human beings after straying into habitations such as villages in search of food. An elephant in musth can be dangerous both to human beings and other elephants and cause widespread damage to crops and property. Divisional forest officer (DFO), Athgarh, Sasmita Lenka said, “Musth is a periodic condition in (bull) male elephants characterised by highly aggressive behaviour and accompanied by a large rise in their reproductive hormones. The testosterone levels in an elephant in musth can be on an average 60 times greater than in the same elephant at other times.” Forest officials usually tranquilise such elephants and even put them in rehabilitation centres. In January, forest officials had to tranquilise a musth elephant (a tusker) near Telkoi in Jajpur district after it had trampled four people including a 60-year-old woman to death and caused widespread damage to crops. Forest officials said there were reports of tuskers in musth being tranquilised every year. “People are demanding tranquilisation of this tusker. There is resentment against him because of the damage he has caused to the paddy crop. But we need to understand the biological phenomenon and give such elephants space to live. Our effort now is to push this tusker back to the dense forest without causing any harm to him,” said the DFO. Scientific investigation has revealed that musth is a problematic condition because even the most placid elephants become highly violent toward humans and other elephants during this period. Their food behaviour also changes. “One can easily identify a musth elephant. There is a secretion over his ear and eye. It is prominent. The animal stands away from the herd. It feels restless. During this period it likes food that contains a lot of water. Feeding it herbal products like nishadal and dhala kaincha is good during this period when it also needs more frequent bathing. Some people mistake such behaviour among elephants as signs of madness and try to kill them. We are trying to make people aware of this biological phenomenon,” said the DFO, adding that musth elephants become normal after sometime. The officer has issued necessary instructions to the deputy ranger office, Khuntuni Range, through a letter on the issue. “A programme should be chalked out at your level to strengthen protection and anti-depredation duty round the clock so as to avoid further complaints. Any deviation will be viewed seriously,” the communication said. Lenka has also asked for the crop damage report following proper assessment for sanction of the compensation amount to the victims.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-635
02-10-2020||India||Nod for secure link to forward areas for Indian Army||The Cabinet Committee on Security (CCS) on Thursday cleared a long-pending project worth Rs 7,796 crore to establish a secure communication network for the Indian Army that will include modern optical fibre cable links to forward areas. In a statement, the defence ministry on Thursday said that the new Army Static Switched Communication Network (ASCON) will provide a “big boost to the operational capability of the defence forces”, given the current operational situation on the border with China in eastern Ladakh where the armies of the two countries have been locked in a stand-off since May. The project will be implemented by the public sector company ITI. “The project would augment the communication network of Indian Army in the sensitive forward operational areas which in turn will provide a major boost to the operational preparedness of the Indian Army especially keeping in view the current operational situation at LAC (Line of Actual Control),” said a statement from the defence ministry. The project is a big opportunity for the public sector.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-635
02-10-2020||India||Bhushan to Delhi Bar: Protect, don’t punish||Lawyer Prashant Bhushan has asked the Bar Council of Delhi (BCD) to drop the disciplinary proceedings against him, saying his conviction for criminal contempt of court over two tweets was a “fundamental assault on the freedom of speech” which the regulatory body is supposed to protect as it involves the “dignity, freedom and independence of the Bar”. Although the Supreme Court on August 31 had let off Bhushan with a token Re 1 fine or three months’ imprisonment if he fails to pay the money, the BCD had decided to initiate contempt against the lawyer for his two tweets. The Bar Council of India and the respective state bar councils are the regulatory body for advocates and legal education in India. Responding to the showcause notice issued to him on September 21 by the BCD through its secretary Ajayinder Sangwan, Bhushan’s said: “…the Supreme Court judgments holding me guilty of criminal contempt and further sentencing me for the same are a fundamental assault on the freedom of speech and independence of the Bar. The Bar’s independence has been protected by the statutory Bar Councils established under the Advocates Act, 1961. The Bar Councils have been made completely independent of the Government as well as the Judiciary, so that they can protect the dignity, freedom and independence of the Bar.” He added: “I submit that the Bar Council should stand in solidarity with the rights of the members of the legal profession, and not take cognisance of the judgment of Supreme Court which have severely constricted and abridged the freedom, rights and dignity of the members of the Bar and also ordinary citizens. Freedom of speech and expression of lawyers is critical so that the members of the legal profession remain independent and can voice their opinion about the functioning of the courts without any fear or favour. “It is for the same reason that the administration and functioning of the Bar Council of India as well as the State Bar Councils have been kept completely independent of the government and the judiciary.” Bhushan said the two tweets are within the limits of freedom of expression of a member of the Bar and there is nothing in them which could be termed as contemptuous. “The judgment of the Supreme Court holding me guilty, after disregarding my defence of truth, is thus fundamentally flawed, and an assault on free speech. This judgment would have the effect of criminalizing any criticism of the functioning of the judiciary and would have a chilling effect on the right of lawyers and citizens to voice their opinion,” Bhushan said. He said it is a settled law that the Supreme Court or high courts have no power to bar a lawyer from his right to practice while holding him guilty of contempt. This is because that is the sole domain of the Bar Council concerned to apply its own independent mind and come to conclusion whether indeed the advocate has committed an act which the council feels is professional misconduct worthy of suspension of right to practice law. “Thus, it is submitted that the BCD is not at all bound by the judgment of the Court holding me guilty, and in fact has to form its own independent opinion as to whether my two tweets amount to any professional misconduct.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-635
02-10-2020||India||UP probe team blames Hathras gang-rape-and-murder victim’s family||The special investigation team that visited the Hathras gang-rape-and-murder victim’s home on Wednesday and Thursday seemed keener to blame the family for the police’s lapses than listen to their complaints against the force, her father said. The SIT, headed by state home secretary Bhagwan Swaroop, “kept asking us the same question —  why we didn’t mention in our September 14 complaint that my daughter was not only thrashed and had her tongue chopped off but was also gang-raped,” the father said. “We kept replying that we had done so in our application and don’t know why the police changed it.” Piyush Mordia, inspector-general of police, Aligarh range, had on Wednesday confirmed that the police had initially registered a case of attempt to murder, adding the charges of molestation on September 19 and gang rape on September 22. The family says the gang-rape charge was added under pressure of public protests. Mordia, however, had said the medical report had not confirmed gang rape and that a forensic laboratory was now examining the evidence. The father said the three-member SIT —  which included a senior police officer and a bureaucrat —  hadn’t asked the family any questions on the “police’s burning of my daughter’s corpse after locking us inside our home”. “The SIT members ignored our question why they were not taking any interest in our statements that the police had initially tried to save the accused and later traumatised us after my daughter’s body was brought to the village,” he added. The father had had to step out of the village to meet reporters because the police had blocked the kachcha road with their cars to keep out all “outsiders”. When the SIT first visited the family for an hour on Wednesday evening, it had “forgotten to ask some important questions because of the presence of outsiders there”, a police officer said on Thursday afternoon. “So we have been asked to block the roads leading to the village today.” On Wednesday, some journalists and curious onlookers had gathered outside the victim’s house while the SIT was questioning the family inside. Four men have been arrested on the charge of gang-raping the 19-year-old Dalit victim, cutting off her tongue and breaking her spinal cord on September 14. She died at Delhi’s Safdarjung Hospital on September 29, after which the police allegedly hijacked her body and cremated it without the consent of the family, whom they locked inside their home. On Wednesday night, the police registered cases against 145 people who had participated in a protest in Hathras town against the atrocity and the police’s lapses. They have been charged with rioting, use of criminal force to deter public servants, rash acts to endanger human lives and damaging public property. The protesters had stoned the police in retaliation to a baton charge. “We have formed teams to arrest those who took the law into their own hands and targeted police vehicles,” Hathras superintendent of police Vikrant Veer said. Undeterred, protesters gathered across the district on Thursday to demand punishment for the policemen who had delayed the arrests of the four upper-caste accused. Sweepers in Moradabad, about 100km from the victim’s village, blocked the national highway to Delhi for several hours with mounds of garbage. The victim was from their caste. Congress workers held protests in every district of Uttar Pradesh demanding the resignation of chief minister Yogi Adityanath. “Adityanath has failed to provide security to people. A large number of girls have been brutalised and killed in the three years of BJP rule. We want the chief minister to step down,” state Congress president Ajay Kumar Lallu said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-635
