03-10-2020||India||Rahul, Priyanka meet Hathras victim’s family||Congress leaders Rahul Gandhi and Priyanka Gandhi Vadra on Saturday evening met the family of the Hathras victim, declaring they will fight for justice to the Dalit woman who died after being allegedly gang-raped. “We will fight against injustice, and fight till justice is done,” Priyanka told reporters after the meeting that lasted about 45 minutes. Rahul said no power can stifle the voice of the family. Uttar Pradesh authorities had scuttled an earlier attempt by the two leaders to travel to Hathras, detaining them and several party workers in Greater Noida outside Delhi on Thursday. On Saturday, the Congress staged another demonstration at the Delhi-Noida border, where Congress workers scuffled with police and were allegedly baton-charged. When a delegation of Congress MPs and other leaders reached the barricades, the Noida police said they will allow only five party representatives to meet the family at their village in Hathras, about 150km away. The 19-year-old woman was allegedly gang-raped on September 14 in an assault by four men that left her critically injured. She died at a Delhi hospital last Tuesday. Villagers gathered outside as the Congress leaders entered the family’s home. Some were seen on the rooftops nearby, waiting to catch a glimpse of the Congress leaders. Uttar Pradesh Congress leaders Pradeep Mathur told news agency PTI that K.C. Venugopal, Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury and Mukul Wasnik accompanied the Gandhis on the visit. There was a heavy security presence outside the family’s home. All roads it seemed led to Hathras with chief minister Yogi Adityanath sending senior officials, including additional chief secretary (home) Awanish Awasthi and director-general of police H.C. Awasthy, to the village to meet the woman's family. Several journalists, including those from TV channels, also made their way to the village where various family members spoke of their grief and trauma since September 14 when she was brutally assaulted and allegedly gangraped by four upper caste men. Awasthi told reporters that any group with no more than five people is allowed to meet the victim's family, marking a departure from the past few days when the media and politicians, including from the Congress and the Trinamul, were turned away from the village. He said orders for the suspension of police personnel, including the superintendent of police, were issued on Friday within two hours of receiving the first report from the SIT. "It is an extremely sad incident. We met everyone in the family. We spoke to them and assured them that the strictest action would be taken against all those found guilty," Awasthi told reporters. "Whatever points and the complaints they have raised, the SIT will note them, and we will make all efforts to ensure that each of them is addressed," Awasthi said, without elaborating. The officer said that they would submit a report to the chief minister. The Dalit teen's family alleged they were forced by local police to hurriedly conduct her last rites, triggering outrage nationwide and protests in several places. On Thursday, the Hathras administration had clamped prohibitory orders and scuffles broke out as politicians, including from the Congress and the Trinamul, as well as the media, tried to access the village. About 300 police personnel stood on guard to prevent anybody from entering. The death of the young woman, whose brutal assault recalled for many the horrors of the Nirbhaya case, continued to snowball into a major political issue. The Congress's Uttar Pradesh unit president Ajay Kumar Lallu and more than 500 workers were earlier put under house arrest, the party alleged. In Varanasi, a group of Congress workers blocked Union minister Smriti Irani's cavalcade. Congress spokesperson Lalan Kumar said protesting party workers, who raised anti-government slogans and demanded justice for the woman's family, were later arrested. Addressing a press conference, the women and child development minister accused the Opposition of playing politics on the Hathras issue. "The victim will get justice. I have spoken to the chief minister. Once the SIT submits its report, the chief minister will take action against the accused," Irani told reporters. Adityanath had set up three-member special investigation team on Wednesday and instructed that it submit its report by October 14. In a tweet in Hindi using the hashtag 'Hathrashorror', Rahul said the behaviour of the Uttar Pradesh government and police with the woman and her family "is unacceptable" . Hitting out at the Adityanath dispensation, Priyanka described the state government as "morally corrupt" and said, "The victim did not get treatment, her complaint was not registered on time, her body was forcibly cremated, the family is in captivity, they are being suppressed -- now they are being threatened that they will have to undergo a narco test." The party also alleged that the woman and her family had been denied justice and "severely traumatised" by the BJP government. BSP president Mayawati demanded a CBI or a Supreme Court-monitored probe into the incident and said people were not satisfied with the initial investigations in the matter. There is tremendous resentment in the entire country over the Hathras heinous gangrape case. The public does not seem satisfied with the initial probe report. Therefore, this matter should be investigated by the CBI or under the supervision of the honourable Supreme Court. This is the demand of the BSP, Mayawati tweeted in Hindi. Also, to the honourable President of the country, who also comes from the state and is a Dalit, it is a strong appeal to him to intervene in this case, keeping in mind the inhuman attitude of the government, to bring justice to the victim family, she added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-632
03-10-2020||India||SIT to look into all grievances of victim's family, says UP official||The SIT will look into all issues raised by the family of the 19-year-old Dalit woman in Hathras, and the strictest action will be taken against the culprits, Uttar Pradesh Additional Chief Secretary, Home, Awanish Awasthi, said on Saturday after meeting the victim's kin here. A decision has also been taken for providing security permanently in the village, the senior officer, who along with DGP HC Awasthy rushed to meet the victim's family on the instructions of Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath, said. He said orders for the suspension of police personnel, including the Superintendent of Police and the Circle Officer of the area, were issued on Friday within two hours of receiving the first report from the Special Investigation Team (SIT). "It is an extremely sad incident. We met everyone in the family. We spoke to them and assured them that the strictest action would be taken against all those found guilty, Awasthi told reporters. "The SIT inquiry is on and it will continue to do its work. The family members have raised certain issues. Whatever points and the complaints they have raised, the SIT will note them, and we will make all efforts to ensure that each of them is addressed," Awasthi said, without elaborating. The officer said that they would submit a report to the chief minister. The visit by the two top officials came as a massive controversy raged over the incident with the opposition targeting the Adityanath government. "The first report of the SIT was received yesterday evening and within two hours orders were issued for the suspension of the then SP, CO, inspector, senior sub-inspector and constable," Awasthi said. The victim, who was attacked on September 14, died of her grievous injuries in the early hours of Tuesday in a Delhi hospital and was cremated in the dead of night near her home on Wednesday with her family alleging that they were hurried into carrying out her last rites by local police. The incident triggered widespread outrage and protests. On Thursday, the Hathras administration clamped prohibitory orders barring the assembly of more than four people in the district, where scuffles broke out as politicians, including from the Congress and the TMC, as well as the media persons tried to access the village. About 300 police personnel stood on guard to prevent anybody from entering. Today, however, the administration lifted restrictions on the entry of media persons. To a query, Awasthi said, "If people's representatives want to come, five people will be allowed". "We also met some people's representatives and requested them to help maintain social harmony," he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-632
03-10-2020||India||Rahul, Priyanka among 5 allowed to proceed to Hathras||Congress leaders Rahul Gandhi and Priyanka Gandhi Vadra were headed to Hathras on Saturday to meet the family of the Dalit sexual assault victim following a massive show of party strength and some scuffles too at the Delhi-Uttar Pradesh border. While high drama unfolded in the national capital and the case continued to find wide resonance, a Hathras administration official said the Special Investigation Team had completed its preliminary probe into the death and alleged gangrape of the 19-year-old woman. Ending a two-day standoff, the administration removed barricades outside her village to allow the media to meet her family. But scores of police personnel in riot gear lined up at the Delhi-Noida Direct flyway to prevent the Congress convoy from moving to Hathras, about 180 km away. Eventually, as swarms of Congress workers and others jostled with each other amid loud honking, slogans and Congress flags fluttering in the air, the Gautam Buddh Nagar Police finally allowed five people, including Rahul Gandhi, to go to Hathras. Congress workers some who described what happened as brutal repression -- claimed police used batons to disperse the crowd. Rahul Gandhi and Priyanka Gandhi were detained on Thursday when they tried to go to Hathras. CrPC Section 144 has been imposed in Noida, Greater Noida as well as in Hathras and some other districts in Uttar Pradesh due to the COVID-19 outbreak. Considering social distancing and other related norms, permission has been granted for five people, including Rahul Gandhi and Priyanka Gandhi Vadra," Noida Police Commissioner Alok Singh said. All roads it seemed led to Hathras with Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath sending senior officials, including Additional Chief Secretary (home) Awanish Awasthi and Director General of Police H C Awasthy, to the village to meet the woman's family. Several journalists, including those from TV channels, also made their way to the village where various family members spoke of their grief and trauma since September 14 when she was brutally assaulted and allegedly gangraped by four upper caste men. Awanish Awasthi told reporters that any group with no more than five people" is allowed to meet the victim's family, marking a departure from the last few days when media and politicians, including from the Congress and Trinamool Congress, were turned away from the village. He said orders for the suspension of police personnel, including the superintendent of police, were issued on Friday within two hours of receiving the first report from the SIT. "It is an extremely sad incident. We met everyone in the family. We spoke to them and assured them that the strictest action would be taken against all those found guilty, Awasthi told reporters. "Whatever points and the complaints they have raised, the SIT will note them, and we will make all efforts to ensure that each of them is addressed," Awasthi said, without elaborating. The officer said that they would submit a report to the chief minister. The Dalit teen died of her grievous injuries in the early hours of Tuesday in a Delhi hospital, a fortnight after she was attacked, and cremated in the dead of night near her home on Wednesday. Her family alleged they were forced by local police to hurriedly conduct her last rites, triggering outrage nationwide and protests in several places. On Thursday, the Hathras administration had clamped prohibitory orders and scuffles broke out as politicians, including from the Congress and the TMC, as well as the media tried to access the village. About 300 police personnel stood on guard to prevent anybody from entering. The death of the young woman, whose brutal assault recalled for many the horrors of the Nirbhaya case, continued to snowball into a major political issue. As the Congress delegation from Delhi prepared to make its way to Hathras, its Uttar Pradesh unit president Ajay Kumar Lallu and more than 500 workers were put under house arrest, the party alleged. In Varanasi, a group of Congress workers blocked the Union minister Smriti Irani's cavalcade. Congress spokesperson Lalan Kumar said protesting party workers, who raised anti-government slogans and demanded justice for the woman's family, were later arrested. Addressing a press conference, the Women and Child Development minister accused the opposition of playing politics on the Hathras issue. The victim will get justice. I have spoken to the chief minister. Once the SIT submits its report, the chief minister will take action against the accused, Irani told reporters. Adityanath had set up three-member Special Investigation Team on Wednesday and instructed that it submit its report by October 14. In a tweet in Hindi using the hashtag 'Hathrashorror', Rahul Gandhi said the behaviour of the UP government and police with the woman and her family "is unacceptable . Hitting out at the Adityanath dispensation, Priyanka Gandhi described the UP government as "morally corrupt" and said, "The victim did not get treatment, her complaint was not registered on time, her body was forcibly cremated, the family is in captivity, they are being suppressed -- now they are being threatened that they will have to undergo a narco test." The party also alleged that the woman and her family had been denied justice and "severely traumatised" by the BJP government. BSP president Mayawati demanded a CBI or a Supreme Court monitored probe into the incident and said people were not satisfied with the initial investigations in the matter. There is tremendous resentment in the entire country over the Hathras heinous gangrape case. The public does not seem satisfied with the initial probe report. Therefore, this matter should be investigated by the CBI or under the supervision of the honourable Supreme Court. This is the demand of the BSP, Mayawati tweeted in Hindi. Also, the honourable president of the country, who also comes from UP and is a Dalit, it is a strong appeal to him to intervene in this case, keeping in mind the inhuman attitude of the government, to bring justice to the victim family, she added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-632
03-10-2020||India||India successfully test fires another missile||India on Saturday successfully test fired its indigenously developed nuclear capable hypersonic missile 'Shaurya' with a strike range of around 1,000 km from a test range in Odisha, defence sources said. 'Shaurya', which is the land variant of Indias K-15 missile, has a strike range of 700 km to 1000 km and is capable of carrying payloads of 200 kg to 1000 kg, the sources said. The surface-to-surface tactical missile was blasted off from a canister strapped to the ground launcher from launch complex 4 of the Integrated Test Range (ITR) in the APJ Abdul Kalam Island around 12.10 pm and covered the desired range, they said. It is 10 metres long, 74 cm in diameter and weighs 6.2 tonnes. Its two stages use solid propellants. Describing the trial as successful, the sources said that the state-of-the-art missile performed a manoeuvre in the closing stages of its flight and hit the impact point in the Bay of Bengal with precision and accuracy. A gas generator at the bottom of the canister pushed the missile out it. Its first stage ignited then and fell off. The second stage went into action after this, a Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO) official said. During the test flight, the missile was tracked by various telemetry stations and radars and performed well, he said. DRDO officials rate Shaurya as one of the top 10 missiles in the world in its class with its high performance navigation and guidance systems, efficient propulsion systems, sophisticated control technologies and canisterised launch," sources said. The missile can be launched from silos and canisters mounted on a truck and fixed on the ground, they said adding that it can be easily moved around. A truck itself can become a launching platform. "Shaurya" missiles can kept in locations where the enemies would not be able to detect them. Besides, it cannot be detected by satellite imaging, the sources said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-632
03-10-2020||India||Modi says Congress neglected country's defence while in power||Attacking the Congress, Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday said the country's defence interests were compromised for a long time as their governments kept "playing around with files" and delayed procurement of fighter jets, arms, ammunition and other strategic equipment. Addressing public meetings in Himachal Pradesh after inaugurating strategically-important Atal Tunnel, the prime minister also took a swipe at the opposition's protest against farm and labour laws, saying those parties also had similar ideas but lacked the courage to implement these measures because they focussed on elections while his government looked at the country's and farmers' welfare. "Nothing is more important for us than the defence of the country. But for a long time, the country has also witnessed an era when the defence interests of the country were compromised. The Air Force of the country kept demanding a modern fighter plane, while they kept opening and closing files after files, and kept playing around with those files," he said at Rohtang after inaugurating the tunnel. Modi's reference assumes significance in the wake of the government's repeated assertion that the UPA regime had delayed decisions on the acquisition of Rafale fighter jets from France. "Be it ammunition, modern rifles, bulletproof jackets, equipment that are used in cold weather conditions, everything was kept in abeyance. There was a time when the strength of our ordnance factories would make many jitters, but the country's ordnance factories were left on their own," he said after inaugurating the 9.02-km tunnel, which reduces the travel distance between Manali and Leh by 46 km and the travel time by four to five hours. It has been billed as the world's longest highway tunnel, connecting Manali and Leh and built at a cost of over Rs 3,000 crore. Hitting out at the Congress, which headed the coalition government at the Centre during 2004-14, Modi cited a number of strategically important projects, from Atal Tunnel to the airstrip at Daulat Beg Oldi in Ladakh and Tejas fighter aircraft production, to assert that they were delayed or almost forgotten. A world-class organization like the Hindustan Aeronautics Limited was created for indigenous fighter aircraft, helicopters, but attention was not given to strengthen it, he said. The selfishness of people who had been in power for years prevented our military capabilities from being strengthened, Modi said. He questioned as to what "compulsion" and "pressure" might have been behind the delay in projects, without directly naming the Congress. His government, the prime minister said, has deployed all its strength to develop border infrastructure, adding that never before has work been done at such a big scale, be it building roads, bridges, or tunnels. For long, he said, border projects could never come out of the planning stage and those which did got stuck or were kept on the back burner and neglected. The then prime minister Atal Bihari Vajpayee had inaugurated the approach road to Atal Tunnel in 2002, but the project was almost forgotten after his government was gone, Modi said, targeting the Congress-led UPA dispensation. Work on only 1,300 meters was completed by 2013-14, he noted, adding that the project would have been completed by 2040 by this pace before his government took charge in 2014 and speeded it up at an unprecedented rate. "Our govt increased the pace of construction from 300 meters/year to 1400 meters/year and completed the project in 2020," Modi said. In just six years the government completed the work of 26 years, he said. He said that according to a 2005 assessment, the tunnel would have been ready in about nine and a half crore rupees but due to continuous delays, today it has taken about Rs 3200 crore. Just like the Atal Tunnel, this treatment was meted out to several such projects, the prime minister said, adding that Daulat Beg Oldi airstrip remained closed for four to five decades. "There was no political will. I can talk about dozens of projects that are important from the strategic point of view, but for years they were neglected," he said, hitting out at the previous Congress-led governments. In this context, he also referred to the Kosi mega-bridge in Bihar which was envisaged by the Vajpayee government and inaugurated by him last month. Former Himachal Pradesh Chief Minister and veteran Congress leader Veerbhadra Singh recently said the project was originally envisaged by former prime minister Indira Gandhi in 1972, while a foundation stone was laid for the tunnel in 2010 by the then UPA Chairperson Sonia Gandhi. Later, addressing his public meeting in more than six months ever since the outbreak of the coronavirus pandemic forced a nationwide lockdown in March, Modi said the inauguration of the Atal Tunnel is part of the central government's resolve that the benefit of development should reach every part of the country and to every person. "The reason was that some districts did not serve the political benefit of some people. Now work is being done with new thinking of 'Sabke saath se, sabke vishvaas se, sabka vikaas ho raha hai' (Development for all is happening with help of everyone and with the trust of everyone)," Modi said at the public meeting in Sissu village of Lahaul-Spiti region of Himachal Pradesh. "There has been a transformation in the government's way of work. Now, schemes are not made based on how many votes are there in an area. Now the effort is that no Indian is left out," he said. At his second public meeting at Solang Valley, Modi took a swipe at the opposition's protest against farm reform laws, saying those parties also had the same idea but lacked the courage to implement these measures because they focussed on elections while his government looked at the country's and farmers' welfare. Modi said those protesting against the laws wanted farmers to live in the previous century, and are now jolted by his government's attack on middlemen. The ruling BJP has cited the Congress manifesto for the 2019 Lok Sabha polls to assert that the opposition party had also promised the same laws which the Modi government has enacted to allow farmers to sell their produce outside state-controlled 'mandi' but is now criticising them for political reasons. Modi also spoke of the benefits of new labour sector laws and said reforms will continue as his government works to realise its goal of "Aatmanirbhar Bharat" (Self-Reliant India), asserting that regulations of the previous century will not work in a new century. Our reforms have troubled those who have always worked for political benefits, he said, adding that new labour reforms have given women the same salary and opportunities as men had so far. Their mindset remained the same while the century changed, he said, attacking the opposition. "You can't enter the next century with the mindset of the past century," he said. Defence Minister Rajnath Singh, Himachal Pradesh Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur and Union minister Anurag Thakur were also present at the three events. Singh highlighted the strategic importance of the tunnel, saying it will make soldiers' deployment and movement of weapons and ration easier. The prime minister said that such border connectivity projects will also aid the security forces in ensuring regular supplies to them and also in their patrolling. India and China are locked in a five-month-long bitter border standoff in eastern Ladakh that has significantly strained bilateral ties. Both sides have held a series of diplomatic and military talks to resolve the row, but no breakthrough has been achieved to end the standoff. Modi said Atal Tunnel is also going to give new strength to India's border infrastructure and would be living proof of world-class border connectivity. He said despite the longstanding demand to improve the infrastructure and overall development of the border areas, plans were made only to languish for decades without any progress. He also travelled in the tunnel from the South Portal to the North Portal and also visited the emergency egress tunnel that was built into the main tunnel itself. He also witnessed a pictorial exhibition on 'The Making of Atal Tunnel' on the occasion.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-632
03-10-2020||India||Rahul, Priyanka to head to Hathras again||A delegation of Congress MPs led by former party chief Rahul Gandhi will go to Hathras Saturday afternoon to meet the family of the 19-year-old woman who died after she was assaulted and allegedly gang-raped, a senior party leader said. Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra will also be part of the delegation that will meet the family to hear their grievances and demand justice for them, sources said. "Congress MPs under the leadership of former Congress president Rahul Gandhi will go to Hathras today afternoon to meet the grieving family of the 19-year old-daughter of Uttar Pradesh, who was brutally assaulted & murdered," Congress general secretary (organisation) K C Venugopal tweeted. On Thursday, Rahul Gandhi, Priyanka Gandhi along with several party leaders and workers were detained by the police and sent back to Delhi, after they tried to reach Hathras to meet the family of the Dalit woman. In a tweet in Hindi using the hashtag 'Hathrashorror', Rahul Gandhi said the behaviour of the UP government and police with the woman and her family "is unacceptable to me. No Indian should accept this." Rahul Gandhi asserted that "no power in the world can stop me from meeting this grieving family in Hathras and share their pain". Hitting out at the Yogi Adityanath dispensation, Priyanka Gandhi said the UP government is "morally corrupt". "The victim did not get treatment, her complaint was not registered on time, her body was forcibly cremated, the family is in captivity, they are being suppressed -- now they are being threatened that they will have to undergo a narco test," she said in a tweet in Hindi. "This behaviour is not acceptable to the country. Stop threatening the victim's family," she said. The party alleged that the woman and her family have been denied justice and "severely traumatised" by the BJP government in their attempt to hide the truth of the heinous crime perpetrated on her. The Dalit woman was allegedly raped at a village in Hathras by four men on September 14. After her condition deteriorated, she was referred to the Delhi's Safdarjung Hospital where she breathed her last on Tuesday. She was cremated in the early hours of Wednesday, with her family alleging the local police forced them to conduct the last rites in the dead of the night. Local police officers, however, had said the cremation was carried out "as per the wishes of the family". The Special Investigation Team (SIT) has completed its probe into the death of a 19-year-old Dalit woman after an alleged gangrape, a Hathras administration official said on Saturday. The administration has also lifted restrictions on the media's entry into the village, a day after outsiders, including politicians, were barred from meeting the victim's family due to the ongoing SIT probe, the official said. Only the entry of media has been allowed into the village of the victim as the probe of the SIT has completed, Joint Magistrate Prem Prakash Meena told reporters. He also refuted allegations that the administration had confined the victim's family and confiscated their phones.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-632
03-10-2020||India||India's death toll crosses 1 lakh, almost 80,000 cases in a day||India's Covid-19 death toll crossed one lakh and the infection tally climbed to 64,73,544, while the number of people who have recuperated from the disease crossed 54 lakh pushing the recovery rate to 83.84 per cent, the Union Health Ministry said on Saturday. The total coronavirus cases mounted to 64,73,544 with 79,476 new infections being reported in a day, while the death toll climbed to 1,00,842 with the virus claiming 1,069 lives in a span of 24 hours, data updated at 8 am showed. The total recoveries have surged to 54,27,706, while there are 9,44,996 active cases of coronavirus infection in the country which comprises 14.60 per cent of the total caseload, the data showed. The case fatality rate was recorded at 1.56 per cent. India's Covid-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 30 lakh on August 23 and 40 lakh on September 5. It went past 50 lakh on September 16 and crossed 60 lakh on September 28. According to the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), a cumulative total of 7,78,50,403 samples have been tested up to October 2, of which 11,32,675 were tested on Friday. Meanwhile, Delhi recorded 37 Covid-19 fatalities and 2,920 cases on Friday, pushing the death toll to 5,438 and the caseload to over 2.85 lakh, officials said. On September 29, 48 deaths were reported, the highest number of fatalities recorded in a day since July 16, when the city saw 58 fatalities. The fresh cases came out of the 56,258 tests conducted the previous day, according to a bulletin issued by the Delhi health department. The active cases tally on Friday stood at 26,450. The bulletin said the total number of cases has climbed to 2,85,672. Meanwhile, the additional chief secretary, services, discussed the launch of an intensive Covid-19 campaign with all additional chief secretaries, principals secretaries, commissioner of municipal corporations, chairman NDMC, secretaries, heads of all departments, corporations, autonomous bodies of Delhi government. The number of containment zones in Delhi jumped to 2,648 on Friday from 2,615 on Thursday. The positivity rate stood at 5.19 per cent while the recovery rate was over 88 per cent, the bulletin said, adding the case fatality rate stood at 1.9 per cent. Delhi government has significantly ramped up testing in the past few days. The number of tests conducted and corresponding fresh cases reported, ranged from 24,198 (2,312) on September 1 to 61,973 (4,071) on September 19. The number of Rapid-Antigen Tests conducted on Friday stood at 45,153, while 11,105 RT-PCR, CBNAAT and True NAAT tests were conducted. The number of tests done per million, as on Friday, was over 1.67 lakh while the total number of tests stood at over 31.91 lakh. The bulletin said 2,53,784 patients have recovered, been discharged or migrated so far. Since August 18, cases have again started appearing in four-figure count in the city. The bulletin said out of the total number of 15,844 beds in Covid hospitals, 9,773 are vacant. It said 909 beds in Covid care centres are occupied by persons under quarantine, including travellers who have returned by Vande Bharat Mission and bubble flights. The number of people in home isolation slightly dropped to 15,852 compared to 15,899 previous day.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-633
03-10-2020||India||Virus decay hope but peak eludes many places||A two-week decline in India’s average daily new coronavirus infections has stirred speculation among experts whether the epidemic has slipped into a decay phase, but they caution that many places across the country are yet to experience peaks. India’s count of coronavirus disease deaths is set to surpass 100,000 on Saturday. But the seven-day average of daily cases detected has fallen from the highest-yet of 93,199 on September 16 to 82,214 on October 1, a decline not observed since the epidemic’s start. But experts caution that the September 16 peak — if at all — was a nationwide figure that doesn’t help much for a country grappling with different phases of the epidemic in its largest and most densely populated cities, smaller towns and rural areas. “With an epidemic like this one, an all-India figure may be misleading,” said Jayaprakash Muliyil, a community medicine specialist and member of a Covid-19 epidemiology expert panel set up by the Indian Council of Medical Research. “It’s something like having one hand in a refrigerator, the other in an oven and saying I’m okay,” Muliyil, former principal of the Christian Medical College, Vellore, told The Telegraph. The decline in the average daily infections detected has occurred even as the average number of the samples tested daily has increased. Datasets from the Union health ministry suggest that the average daily tests conducted nationwide increased to around 10.60 lakh during the last three weeks of September compared to around 8.6 lakh during the last three weeks of August. “Given the steady fall in numbers we’re seeing, I think we can assume the peak is behind us,” said T. Jacob John, an infectious disease specialist and medical virologist also formerly at the CMC. “But the epidemic is still growing at many places — will they change national numbers? We don’t know yet.” An ICMR survey whose findings where released earlier this week has shown different infection exposure levels in different parts of the country in August — 15 per cent in urban slums, 8 per cent in urban non-slum areas and 4.4 per cent in ruralnareas. Since then, experts say, the epidemic has grown adding to those proportions. But many caution that there is not enough data yet to determine whether the decline in numbers is an outcome of altered testing strategies. “The PCR (a genetic test) is the gold standard and reliable, but the numbers of antigen tests (a rapid protein test, an alternative to the PCR) that carry much less reliability have increased in recent weeks,” said Dileep Mavalankar, the director of the Indian Institute of Public Health, Ahmedabad. “If there is a large shift away from PCR tests to antigen tests, we could get more false negatives and we might see an apparent decline,” Mavalankar told this newspaper. The Union health ministry has told all states to ensure that every symptomatic patient who is negative on an antigen test gets a confirmatory repeat PCR test. But health officials have expressed concern that this rule is not adhered to uniformly with every patient. Experts also point out that any testing strategy has a limited role in catching the coronavirus infections given that around 80 per cent of infected people remain asymptomatic or have only mild symptoms. The ICMR survey findings released earlier this week had suggested that in August, for every reported case, there were up to 32 undocumented infections. The estimated number of infections in August would then have been over 92 million. Some experts caution that debates over a peak are speculative. “We still do not know enough about this coronavirus to assume when a peak might occur,” said Oommen John, a physician and senior research fellow at The George Institute for Global Health, New Delhi. “There are reports of reinfections and symptoms lingering for months — could this be due to the persistence of the infection or residual disease or an immune response has not been clearly established?” John said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-633
03-10-2020||India||On Gandhi Jayanti, praise for his assassin||It is not known whether Prime Minister Narendra Modi has been able to forgive those who hailed Nathuram Godse as a patriot, but Mahatma Gandhi’s 151st birth anniversary is sure to test his forbearance. Almost half as many people hailed Gandhi’s assassin Godse on Twitter on Friday as those who remembered the Mahatma. By evening, there had been 1.17 lakh tweets with the hashtag “Nathuram Godse Zindabad”, compared to more than 2.63 lakh tweets with the hashtag “Gandhi Jayanti”, which accompanied a Gandhi emoji inaugurated by Modi in 2018. Those praising Godse, who has many admirers in the BJP, included at least two handles followed by Modi — @chaitrasal and @swetasamadhiya. The tweets hailing Godse blamed Gandhi for everything from Partition to the execution of the revolutionary Bhagat Singh. Many of the tweets greeting Godse were accompanied by the hashtag “Sudarshan ki haar, Hinduon ki haar” — a reference to the Supreme Court disallowing the television channel Sudarshan News from continuing with the telecast of a show about jihadi elements “infiltrating” the civil services. Modi, who had said last year that he would not be able to fully forgive Malegaon blast accused Pragya Singh Thakur for calling Godse a “patriot”, visited the resting place of Gandhi on Friday to pay his respects. Pragya, however, went on to get a BJP ticket in the general election and again hailed Godse as a “deshbhakt”, this time in Parliament. Many Twitter users, including @chaitrasal, also remembered to wish former Shastri, a Congress stalwart who has of late joined the pantheon of luminaries whose legacies are being sought to be usurped by the Right wing, with the conspiracy theories swirling around his death being used to besmirch the party and its tallest leaders. The Indian Express Online quoted an analysis by keyhole.co, a realtime hashtag tracker, that showed that Twitter users began using the Godse hashtags at 5am on Friday, an hour before those wishing Gandhi. There were regional variations like fewer Godse tweets from Kerala, and pro-Godse Calcuttans using a different hashtag called “Nathuram Godse Amar Rahe”. The pro-Gandhi tweets could catch up only after 1pm. Congress MP Shashi Tharoor tweeted: “We know who has enabled this trend & whose face is hypocritically masked. I have no doubt Gandhi’s India will prevail over Godse’s. #GandhiJayanti.” Perhaps a befitting tribute to Gandhi on Friday was that the top trends by the evening were all against the Hathras gang rape and murder and the government’s attempts to silence the Dalit teen’s family and journalists covering the incident.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-633
03-10-2020||India||Modi's farm laws have left the farmers crying: Sonia Gandhi||Congress president Sonia Gandhi on Friday said the new farm bills had been drafted not on the basis of consultations with stakeholders but after talking to “friends” of the Prime Minister with no regard for farmers’ interests. In a video message on Gandhi Jayanti, being observed as “Kisan-Mazdoor Bachao Divas (Save Farmers and Workers Day)”, Sonia contrasted the Narendra Modi government’s “black” farm laws with the pro-people legislations brought in by the Congress-led UPA. “Today, the Prime Minister is inflicting great injustice upon the farmers of the country. The laws made for agriculture sector were not discussed with farmers. There was no consultation at all. Their interests were completely ignored and the black laws were framed after talking to some of his friends,” she said. While Sonia did not spell out who these “friends” were, the Congress and Rahul Gandhi had repeatedly said the farm legislations were meant to help crony capitalists. Sonia provided a similar hint. “When the mandi system is finished, hoarders are given the freedom to stock and capitalists take over farms, who will protect the crores of small farmers? What about the survival of agricultural labourers and the millions of others associated with the sector?” she said. “The Modi government has left the farmers, who feed the nation with their blood and toil, crying. Asking for adequate price for their produce is their fundamental right. The Congress always drafted legislations after wide consultations and a consensual approach. The people’s interest was supreme in the drafting process. That’s what democracy entails. Every decision must have the people’s consent. Does the Modi government believe in this principle?” Later, addressing a Gandhi Jayanti event in poll-bound Bihar through videoconferencing, Sonia said enough is enough. “Beware of those who run governments by creating fear and misconceptions and by exploiting emotions. Some people today use Mahatma Gandhi’s name but they demolished his values and ideals through their deeds. You can see for yourself — there’s violence everywhere, anarchic conditions, atrocities, discrimination, misconduct…. Hope you decide wisely,” she said. Sonia contrasted the Modi government’s farm laws with the welfare legislations introduced by the Manmohan Singh government. “You know who opposed and ridiculed the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Act? Imagine what would have happened today during the corona crisis without MGNREGA,” she said. “Thousands of the poor would have died of hunger. Forget generating new jobs — the public-sector units, which are the biggest employers, are being sold.” In Parliament five years ago, Modi had called the rural job guarantee scheme “a living monument to your (the Congress’s) failures”. Sonia cited how the Right to Information — which the UPA government had introduced as a transparency and anti-corruption measure — was being weakened. “You keep asking questions but no replies will come. You understand why,” she said. “Laws relating to labour, women, health… are being diluted only to attack the rights of the citizens.” While farmers are protesting the new farm laws, the new labour codes introduced in Parliament have triggered unease among the workers. Congress workers staged sit-ins on Friday in every state to protest against the new farm and labour legislations, as well as against the alleged Hathras gang rape and murder and police misbehaviour with Rahul in Uttar Pradesh. Rahul, pushed to the ground by a policeman on Thursday, sent out a message quoting Gandhi: “I won’t be scared of anybody…. I won’t bow to injustice, I will defeat untruth with truth and will face the miseries that come in the way of opposing untruth.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-633
03-10-2020||India||Fish fetches Rs 1.77 lakh in Odisha||A fish weighing 22kg was sold for Rs 1.77 lakh on Friday at a local market in the Chandbali area of Odisha’s Bhadrak district. A Mumbai-based pharmaceutical company bought the fish after the price reached Rs 8,000 per kg during an auction. Sources said the auction began at an initial price of Rs 6,000 per kg and the company bought the fish paying Rs 1.77 lakh. Sources said a fisherman from neighbouring Kendrapara district’s Talachua area had netted the rare 22kg ghol fish, locally called telia, while fishing in deep sea during the low pressure-induced rains two days ago. Due to Covid-19 restrictions he went to Chandbali to sell the fish instead of travelling to Calcutta. Ghol is one of the most exotic and expensive varieties of marine fish. The heart of this predator fish, known as sea gold, is believed to possess medicinal properties. Native to the Indo-Pacific region, this species is hard to catch. They surface predominantly during the breeding season. Two fish of the same species were earlier sold for Rs 6,000 per kg at a local village, the sources added. Chandbali is around 150km from here.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-633
03-10-2020||India||IIT graduate digitises almost-extinct Saura script  ||An IIT-Mumbai graduate, Soni Salma Priyadarshini, has finished the digitisation of Saura script, one of the most complicated tribal scripts. Saura is the mother tongue of around 3 lakh tribal people inhabiting parts of southern Odisha and north Andhra Pradesh. Saura language and script are on the verge of extinction for want of patronage. It has received little support from the state government with precious little literature available in the language. Soni, who hails from the tribal dominated Rayagada district of southern Odisha, told The Telegraph, “With the support of my teacher Prof Girish Dalvi, I have completed the digitisation of the language. However, more work needs to be done on the size of the fonts of the script. Once it is complete, members of the Saura tribe can communicate with others on WhatsApp. They can use it for writing even on computer like any other language. But my work has come to a halt as I don’t have the resources to pursue the project.” Soni joined IIT-Mumbai in 2014 to pursue her study in industrial design. During her study, she had done a project on typography and did a research on the digitisation of Saura script prepared by a Sabar scholar (pundit) Mangei Gomang of Rayagada district. “Gomang is a great scholar. He had developed a written script by producing 25 letters and 10 digits in 1936. But due to lack of encouragement and patronage over the years from the successive governments, the written tribal language is almost finished,” she said. However, she lamented that her work of digitising the Saura script to disseminate the culture and tradition of the community, has come to a halt because of lack of resources and sponsorship. “Where would I get the funds? It needs another two years’ of work with a team. It needs a good amount of budget,” she said. Hoping for support from the Naveen Patnaik government, which is promoting tribal culture, Soni said, “After passing out from IIT, I had joined a German multi-national company. But to do something for my own tribal people, I quit the job and came here. Meanwhile, I have completed the digitisation, Now, I am feeling constraint of funds to go ahead with the project. I plan to rise the issue with the state government.” Out of 62 tribal communities in Odisha, the spoken languages of five communities have been digitised so far. The Saura language is not confined to tribes from southern Odisha and Andhra, it is also spoken by tribals in certain parts of Jharkhand, Madhya Pradesh and Maharashtra. Soni said: “At home they speak their mother tongue which is an Austro-Asiatic language. It belongs to the class of the Munda family. Now it is mostly an oral language and is not written or read extensively. Most texts in the recent past were written using Odia and Telugu script. Though thriving in some areas, it is considered to be threatened overall.” Once it’s fully computerised, it would be widely used and Sauras will be able to keep alive their identity as a tribe and contribute to the movement for documenting endangered languages and cultures. “Initiative should be taken to publish textbooks, calendars, informal documents and other materials of daily use in saura language. It would enable the tribe to take forward their literary heritage in both formal and informal space,” she said. Tribals feel that similar efforts can be made to keep alive other tribal scripts. “With technological advancement more scripts can be incorporated and can co-exit under the typographic umbrella,” she said, adding that any language can be most appropriately written in its own script.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-633
03-10-2020||India||Leh cajoles Centre with China jab||Ladakh’s Buddhist politicians on Friday censured China’s jibe about their Union Territory and asked Beijing to stop atrocities in Tibet and Xinjiang, apparently trying to burnish their “nationalist” credentials to coax Delhi into granting special status to the region. “We condemn the recent remarks of the Chinese foreign ministry that they do not recognise the Union Territory of Ladakh. This is an unnecessary intervention in our internal affairs,” Cheing Dorjey, a leader of the newly floated People’s Movement for Sixth Schedule, told a news conference in Leh. China’s foreign ministry had recently angered India by saying: “China opposes #India putting Chinese territory in the western section of the border under its administration, which affects China’s territorial integrity and sovereignty. It is ‘unacceptable and void’.” The People’s Movement, a mainly Buddhist body, was floated by Leh-based political, religious and cultural organisations to fight for special status for the region. It has a nominal presence of Muslims and Christians. Delhi’s apparent reluctance to bring Ladakh under the Sixth Schedule in a Bodoland Territorial Council type of arrangement had angered the leaders of Buddhist-majority Leh and prompted them to raise the spectre of separatism. But their rhetoric began changing after Delhi showed willingness to discuss the matter, and they withdrew their call to boycott the upcoming elections to the Ladakh Autonomous Hill Development Council, Leh. Ladakh’s Buddhists, concentrated in Leh, had welcomed the abrogation of Article 370 and the creation of a separate Union Territory of Ladakh. The region’s Muslims, most of whom live in Kargil, are fighting for the restoration of Article 370 and a re-merger of Ladakh with Jammu and Kashmir. Ladakh’s Buddhist and Muslim populations are both opposed to any influx of “outsiders” from “mainland India”, fearing it might change the region’s demographic profile. There is tension between the communities, though, with Ladakh’s Muslims fearful of domination by the more affluent Buddhists. Dorjey said Beijing should be concerned about the rights of the people of Tibet and Xinjiang, who are against Chinese rule. “They should look into why they are committing atrocities there... We strongly condemn their statement (on Ladakh),” he said. Leh-based politicians have increasingly been playing the anti-China card since Delhi agreed to discuss the grant of Sixth Schedule status. Former Ladakh MP and People’s Movement leader Thupstan Chewang recently said the campaign had decided to withdraw the boycott call lest it give China an opportunity to weaken the country. “You all know how there is a big Chinese threat looming on borders. It should not happen that those working against the interests of India will connect Ladakhis with election boycott in Kashmir and this will harm the national interest,” Chewang said on Saturday. While expressing willingness to discuss special status for Ladakh under the Sixth Schedule, the Centre has condemned Kashmiri politicians as “anti-national” for demanding special status for their region under Article 370.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-633
03-10-2020||India||Cry in Delhi: Dalit lives matter, Yogi must go||Hundreds of students, civil society members and Opposition leaders and supporters turned up at Jantar Mantar on Friday evening to demonstrate against the Hathras atrocity, fashioning the largest protest gathering in Delhi since the agitation against the new citizenship regime last winter. Several smaller protests had taken place in the capital since a 19-year-old Dalit girl died in a Delhi hospital on Tuesday, 15 days after being allegedly gang-raped and brutalised in a village in Hathras, Uttar Pradesh. Over the past two days, the police had broken up these demonstrations and booked scores of participants for violating the lockdown. A planned candlelight vigil at India Gate on Friday evening was shifted to the protest plaza of Jantar Mantar after the police tweeted on Thursday night that demonstrations would not be allowed at the original venue. The New Delhi deputy commissioner of police’s office also tweeted that only 100 protesters would be allowed at Jantar Mantar with prior permission. The three Metro stations around the area were shut on Friday evening. But a sea of protesters turned up after Delhi’s ruling Aam Aadmi Party and the Congress publicly supported the programme, promoted on Twitter by student groups, actor Swara Bhasker and the Independent MLA from Gujarat, Jignesh Mevani. Chief minister Arvind Kejriwal, flanked by his ministers and MLAs, spoke at the protest. “Several actions have led people to believe that the culprits are being shielded.... At this point, all that the family need is peace and they should be free to meet whoever they want to. There should be no politics on the matter,” he said. According to the victim’s family, the police took eight days to invoke the charge of gang rape and five days to arrest the suspects. The force is also accused of denying the girl the best possible treatment and then hijacking her body from the hospital and burning it after locking her family at their home. On Friday, her father said the police had confined the family at their home, taken away their phones and thrashed him when he sought to step out. Bhasker, who led the crowd in sloganeering, said: “The cases of rape in Hathras and Balrampur (in Uttar Pradesh, where another woman was gang-raped and murdered this week) have raised questions over the conduct of the authorities. Families have said the first information reports were not registered correctly. The CM must step down.” Among those at the protest site were Mevani, Bhasker, CPM general secretary Sitaram Yechury, CPI leader Kanhaiya Kumar, Bhim Army chief Chandrashekhar Azad and Swaraj India president Yogendra Yadav. “Every day in India, four women are raped but who cares? And this includes the male-dominated Dalit movement too,” Mevani, a Dalit activist, told The Telegraph. So, he said, it’s “good and required” that people voice their protest against the Hathras atrocity. “I hope Mr (Narendra) Modi also opens his mouth…. The Hathras incident is so terrible that there is no option but to fight it out,” he said. Most television news channels, however, had minimal coverage of the protest. Pro-government Twitter handles busied themselves tweeting about a much smaller hunger strike at the same venue by people who allege that actor Sushant Singh Rajput’s death in June was murder, not suicide. BJP politician Kapil Mishra, accused of instigating the February riots that killed 53 people, condemned the protest against the Hathras incident saying the spearheads were “the same people who spread lies about the CAA (Citizenship Amendment Act)”. “Honestly, the protesters are more afraid of the virus than of the police,” said Prasenjeet Kumar, secretary of the Delhi unit of CPIML Liberation’s All India Students’ Association, who has been protesting since Wednesday and has been detained once by the police. “In all these months, we complied with the government’s directives, but the ban on protests is being used to silence dissent itself,” he told this newspaper. “We are protesting, even at the risk of facing police cases, in the hope that this struggle will bring together the movements for both social justice and gender justice. We have several women members out protesting today, including some who are facing police cases for the anti-CAA protests. They may criminalise our protests, but silence on heinous and feudal crimes like what happened in Hathras is criminal.” Youth Congress members dressed as Mahatma Gandhi marched on the road carrying lighted candles. “They (authorities) should understand that Dalit lives matter,” CPI general secretary D. Raja said. “India cannot continue like this. The whole country is agitating for human rights and dignity. Adityanath cannot continue as CM.” Raja added: “I appeal to the President (Ram Nath Kovind), who is from UP. He must intervene. He knows what’s happening. I can’t expect (Prime Minister Narendra) Modi to intervene and set things right.” Yechury, Azad and Yadav too demanded Adityanath’s resignation over the crime, alleged cover-up attempt, forcible burning of the body and police crackdown on the victim’s family and the village that has seen journalists being roughed up. Police later filed an FIR against the protesters under sections of the penal code, Epidemic Act, and Disaster Management Act, cumulatively punishable with up to 18 months in jail. Elsewhere in Delhi, Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra attended a prayer meeting for the victim at the Maharishi Valmiki temple. The victim’s community of Valmiki Dalits worship the Maharishi, considered the author of the original Sanskrit Ramayan. Mahatma Gandhi lived in a room at the temple from 1946 to 1947. “We will ensure justice for our sister. We won’t sit quietly till she gets justice,” Priyanka said. “The government did not help at all. Her family is feeling helpless. We will put political pressure on the government. She wasn’t even given a cremation following Hindu customs.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-633
03-10-2020||India||Hathras rape case: Plea in Supreme Court for CBI or SIT probe||An appeal has been filed seeking a Supreme Court-monitored probe by either the CBI or a special investigation team into the alleged gang rape and murder of a Dalit teen in Uttar Pradesh’s Hathras district. The PIL has been jointly filed by Delhi-based social activist Satyama Dubey and two advocates — Vishal Thakre and Rudra Pratap Yadav. They have also urged the apex court to transfer the trial from Uttar Pradesh to Delhi to instill confidence among the victim’s family and others. The PIL, which is expected to come up for hearing next week, has pleaded that the court should also appoint a sitting or retired Supreme Court or high court judge to monitor the investigation. The petitioners have pleaded that the trial should be shifted to Delhi as Uttar Pradesh police had failed to take adequate action against the perpetrators. Four upper caste men have been arrested for the crime, but the police have been accused of booking them for gang rape only after a public outrage, carrying out a questionable investigation, burning the body of the victim after locking up her parents, trying to blame the family for the crime and not allowing anybody to meet the bereaved relatives. The petition said Uttar Pradesh police's actions amounted to not only grave injustice against the family but the entire society. In the aftermath of intense criticism and protests, the Yogi Adityanath government has constituted a SIT to probe the brutality on the girl and her murder.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-633
03-10-2020||India||UP police keep journalists out||ABP News reporter Pratima Mishra and accompanying cameraman Manoj Adhikari were shoved and pushed by police and prevented from visiting the Hathras gang-rape-and-murder victim’s home on Friday. The two journalists were stopped after they had got to within 1km of the house on foot. Mishra kept pleading with the police to be allowed to visit the victim’s family but policewomen and policemen surrounded her and Adhikari. Told that journalists were barred from the village under government instructions, Mishra asked to be shown a copy of the order. The police continued to block her way and asked her not to report on the subject. Mishra later sat on a dharna before she and her colleague were forcibly taken into a police vehicle. They were released a while later. Local reporters said the victim’s family members had been confined in a single room of their house. A young cousin of the victim somehow managed to give the police the slip, made his way out of the besieged village and spoke to journalists around 11.30am on Friday. He said his family had sent him out to speak to the media. “The police have taken away our phones. Nobody is allowed to step outside their homes,” he said. “I have come here hiding all the way. The DM kicked my uncle in the chest and locked him inside a room because he had asked to call the media. He is unconscious.” The police said the prohibitory orders had been put in place as the special investigation team was still in the village, trying to collect statements and evidence. A local sub-divisional magistrate said the Opposition and the media were being barred from the village so there is no “meddling in the investigation”. The India Today group issued a statement alleging the tapping and leak of a phone conversation between one of its reporters and the victim’s brother, and demanding an explanation from the government. “The Uttar Pradesh administration has barred journalists from entering Hathras and is not allowing the victim’s family to speak to the media. This evening, the audio of telephone call between the victim’s brother... and India Today’s reporter, Tanushree Pandey, was leaked on social media,” it said. “India Today first asks why was the telephone of our reporter, who was covering the Hathras murder, being tapped? If it was (the brother’s) phone that was being tapped, then the government needs to answer why are the phones of the grieving victim’s family under surveillance or being tapped. And under what provision of law were the phones tapped and call recordings leaked by officials who had access to these recordings.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-633
03-10-2020||India||Uma Bharati: End siege of Hathras rape-and-murder victim’s family||Uma Bharati on Friday became the first senior BJP politician to speak out against aspects of the Hathras horror, urging chief minister Yogi Adityanath to end the siege of the victim’s family and allow politicians and the media to meet them. The incident has “hit the image of your government and the BJP”, the saffron-robed former chief minister told the saffron-robed incumbent. “Humne abhi Ram mandir ka shilanyas kiya hai tatha aage desh ne Ramrajya laane ka dawa kiya hai. Kintu iss ghatna par police ki sandehpurn karwaiye se aapki @UPGovt, tatha @BJP4India ki chavi par aanch aayi hai (We have just laid the foundation stone for the Ram temple and promised to bring Ramrajya. But the police’s suspicious actions have hit the image of your government and the BJP),” Uma tweeted on Friday evening. The victim’s father has alleged that the police have confined the family at their home and taken away their phones, and thrashed him when he sought to step out. “There is no rule to my knowledge that says a family can’t meet anybody because of an SIT (special investigation team) probe. Doing this will bring the SIT probe itself under suspicion,” Uma, admitted at a Rishikesh hospital after testing Covid-positive, said. “I’m restless in this corona ward. Had I not been coronavirus-positive, I too would have been sitting with the family. I will definitely meet them once I’m discharged.” The firebrand Uma, a leader of the Ram temple movement who was acquitted in the demolition case on Wednesday, said she could not remain silent at what was happening. “She (the victim) was the daughter of a Dalit family. She was cremated in a hurry by the police and now the family and the village are under siege by the police,” she said. “At first I thought I should not say anything because you (Adityanath) must be taking action. However, the manner in which the police have laid siege to the village and the victim’s family is worrisome, no matter what the argument in its favour may be.” She urged Adityanath not to ignore her request, stressing she was a “senior” and “like an elder sister”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-634
03-10-2020||India||Covid: No harm from masks for lung patients ||The discomfort associated with wearing a face mask should not trigger unsubstantiated concerns about carbon dioxide poisoning, researchers asserted on Friday after their study found no evidence that masks induce physiological changes even in people with lung disease. The US-based researchers said their study data should help mitigate any fears about health risks associated with the use of surgical masks and expand the public’s adherence to this precautionary measure that reduces the risk of the new coronavirus infection. Their study was designed to address concerns among members of the public that masks over the nose and mouth might cause people to re-breathe carbon dioxide and experience oxygen deficiency. The researchers assessed gas exchange — changes in oxygen and carbon dioxide levels — in healthy persons and in persons with chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) before and while using surgical masks. “We show the effects are minimal at most even in people with very severe lung impairment,” Michael Campos, a pulmonary medicine specialist at the University of Miami Hospital who led the study, said in a media release from the American Thoracic Society. Campos and his colleagues have reported their findings in the Annals of the American Thoracic Society. Their study comes at a time when health authorities worldwide have urged people to wear surgical or two-layered cloth masks in public to reduce the risk of picking up the coronavirus infection. The researchers asked 15 healthy persons and 15 COPD patients to take a six-minute walk test. Patients with severe COPD on the six-minute walk test had decreased oxygenation as expected. However, the COPD patients as a group did not exhibit major physiological changes in gas exchange after the test using a surgical mask, particularly in carbon dioxide retention, the doctors said. They acknowledge that their sample size was small but said their findings offered “a clear signal on the nil effect of surgical masks on relevant physiological changes in gas exchange” under routine circumstances such as prolonged rest or brief walking. Chest specialists have underscored that patients with lung disease should in particular avoid getting infected — through the use of face masks, hand hygiene and avoiding crowds — as the underlying lung disorder could make them vulnerable to severe Covid-19. “Masks help in many ways — and they do not lead to carbon dioxide build up. Gas exchange happens through masks. People need to know this,” said Jai Kumar Samaria, a senior respiratory medicine specialist at the Benaras Hindu University Institute of Medical Sciences, Varanasi. “A critical role of masks is to minimise the amount of virus that may be inhaled — every infection requires a critical dose. A mask helps keep the amount of virus down.” Vinod Paul, member of Niti Aayog and head of India’s national task force on the coronavirus, had earlier this week iterated the need for people to wear masks, and stressed the even greater need to do so during the upcoming season of festivals.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-634
03-10-2020||India||Hathras rape case: Troubling signs in caste cauldron||When Uttar Pradesh police were using force on MPs and journalists to shut them out of the rape-and-murder victim’s village in Hathras on Friday, Rajputs from the neighbourhood held an unofficial “panchayat” around noon. The gathering declared the four arrested youths innocent, echoing some BJP politicians, and demanded narco-analysis of the accused and complainants. Around eight hours later, the Uttar Pradesh government obliged, announcing such tests on the complainants, the accused and the policemen involved initially in the probe. The developments came on a day the Dalit victim’s father told reporters over a fellow villager’s phone that the police seemed to be on the side of the accused and had confined the family at their home, taken away their phones and thrashed him when he sought to step out. Several BJP politicians have been claiming that the four arrested Rajput youths are victims of caste politics, framed by politicians from Opposition parties or those from the victim’s Valmiki caste. Adityanath’s tenure has witnessed the dominance of his Kshatriya caste in the state, which has led to widespread conflict and tension between Rajputs and Dalits. On Friday, the caste panchayat held at Baghna village by Rajputs from 12 nearby villages demanded a CBI probe into the gang-rape-and-murder case. “We also want a narco test of the accused and the family members of the girl. It will prove the innocence of the arrested youths,” said Awadhesh Singh, a villager who had attended the panchayat. Around 10pm on Friday, the Uttar Pradesh home department said in a media release: “Polygraphy and narco test of all the complainants, the accused and the policemen (those involved in initial investigation) would be conducted.” Such tests require the consent of those undergoing the tests. The release did not mention whether consent had been secured. The government also announced the suspension of the SP of Hathras, Vikrant Veer, and some other police officials -– a familiar response when matters get out of hand. The accused allegedly gang-raped the 19-year-old girl on September 14, cut off her tongue and broke her spine. She died in Delhi’s Safdarjung Hospital on September 29. The victim’s mother says she saw the four accused -- who are from the same village -- run away when she arrived at the spot. The victim’s brother named them in the FIR and, the police say, the girl too named them from her hospital bed. Rajveer Singh Pahalwan, former MLA and BJP politician, told reporters in Hathras: “Associating the crime with a caste is wrong. The arrested men have been wrongly implicated. Some political parties are playing dirty tricks against them.” Another BJP politician, who is based in Lucknow and didn’t want to be named, said: “We are not going to sit silently; we’ll try to save the arrested youths.” Members of the Valmiki community have been protesting almost every day since the girl’s death -- in Hathras, Moradabad and Aligarh. The police have denied any caste tension in the village, which falls in the Chandpa police station’s area. Piyush Mordia, inspector-general of police, Aligarh range, said: “Section 144 has been imposed to prevent the assembly of five or more people at any place in Hathras. Some protests are going on at some places and the police are alert.” Rakesh Singh, father of accused Ramu Singh, told reporters his son was a victim of a plot by Rajveer Diler, the Hathras MP from the BJP who belongs to the Valmiki caste. “The BJP is playing both sides. The MP is trying to crucify my son to consolidate his position among the Valmikis. Ramu was somewhere else during the incident,” Rakesh said. Diler said he had no role in the arrests or the registration of the FIR. Ravi Singh, the main accused, is a nephew of Rakesh. Sandeep Singh is a grandson of Rakesh’s eldest brother. Luvkush Singh is their friend. The village where the victim lived has been sealed from every side to prevent anyone entering or leaving it. The police allegedly roughed up journalists who tried to enter the village. The victim’s father said he felt “hurt at the way the police, BJP leaders and the Rajputs are viewing the incident”. “What is happening is proof that the criminals believe it’s their right to victimise Dalits. They think they can gang-rape and kill our daughters but we mustn’t raise our voice. The police are clearly standing by them,” he said when some reporters spoke to him on a phone smuggled into his home by another villager. “The police have taken our phones, kept us in confinement in our home and misbehaved with us. Some administrative and police officers thrashed me when I told them I needed to step out.” He added: “There are people who want to come and meet me but the police don’t want it to happen because they believe the poor must not ask questions, not even of rapists.” Hathras district magistrate Praveen Kumar denied the family's allegations of confinement, seizure of phones and physical assault. On the sealing of the village, he said: “It’s our responsibility to maintain peace and we are doing only that.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-634
03-10-2020||India||A worthy disciple called Ajay Mohan Bisht||Twice in two years has Ajay Mohan Bisht, also known as Adityanath, been voted the nation’s best chief minister in polls that purport credibility. It may be fair to wonder which sordid corners of hell those pollsters went scouring. Or perhaps they were merely scouring Adityanath’s Uttar Pradesh, which answers to multiple descriptions of hell. Such as the one whose grisly layers we might yet want to banish as the fiction of a traumatic nightmare. Unfortunately, we are living it and being cynically denied the ordeal of the dead. A 19-year-old is gagged, raped and bludgeoned by an entitled crew of criminals in Hathras, barely 200km southeast of Delhi. So brutally that her spine snaps and leaves her paralysed. When news of the savagery breaks, district authorities damn it as “fake news”. But she survives the multiple assaults and the slur of official lies. She struggles for life a fortnight, shifted from hospital to hospital, and eventually dies in Delhi. She can no longer be dismissed as “fake news”, she has become a dead body. But this is Adityanath’s realm, what it decrees dismissed will have to be dismissed. She is bundled and hauled all the way back to Hathras, tossed onto an unseemly pile of timber and bric-a-brac, and set aflame. Her family is offered no part in her final rites; uniformed policemen, guardians of law and order, such as it is in Uttar Pradesh, watch over and accomplish criminal destruction of evidence. To the agitated enquiries of journalists present, one of them says out loud on camera: “You cannot go anywhere near, we have instructions. And we cannot speak; we have no permission to speak in Hindustan.” In no time, the 19-year-old has turned into a baleful stretch of ash and embers. On cue, Prashant Kumar, additional director-general (law and order) of the UP police, pulls out a forensic lab report and announces that the girl had never been raped. Kumar is the same man entrusted, two years ago, with the onerous task of showering rose petals from a chopper seat on streams of “kanwarias” in western Uttar Pradesh. But evidently the Adityanath regime puts little faith in its topmost law-and-order officer. So it fields a Mumbai PR firm. An account executive of a PR firm, enters the mailboxes of a select group of journalists on a cheery note. “Greetings!” she begins. Thereon, her tone turns deeply informed and instructive: “Hathras girl was not rape… FSL report reveals…. It should put to rest all speculations…. The reports also reveal the conspiracy to push the state into caste turmoil (It is not clear whether Rodrigues is still referring to the said forensic report)…. SIT is sure to unveil evil design behind the whole incident….” The executive, from her offices in Fort, Mumbai, is already announcing what the SIT will reveal. That’s called imaginative PR. When that client is called Adityanath, imagination is nothing to knock. It takes imagination, as Adityanath demonstrated early in his tenure as Uttar Pradesh boss, to arrogate to yourself the power to abrogate all criminal charges and cases against yourself. It takes imagination to so manage traffic that a dreaded offender and mafia don like Vikas Dubey, a man who can put you in trouble if he decides to sing, is killed in a road accident en route to the state after capture in Ujjain. It takes imagination to pull out thousands of crores from the employees’ provident fund account and give the sums over to a dubious housing finance corporation. It takes imagination for an avowed saffron-clad mahant to turn Talibani — in January 2018, Kathak dancer Manjari Chaturvedi’s qawwali performance at an official function was scrapped at the last minute because the “CM does not like Islamic song, music or dance”. It must take imagination to pronounce that when men imitate women, they become godly, but when women imitate men, they turn devilish and, therefore, perhaps, “women are not capable of being left free or independent”. It must take a certain kind of imagination to hector the renaming of a museum of Mughal-era treasures and artefacts at Agra after Shivaji. Can it also be called an act of imagination that Adityanath recently conjured a Special Security Force that is empowered, by law, to “arrest anybody or conduct a search operation” without a warrant, or, unwarranted? Some differ: they call it an act of imitation, and they quote precedents from Germany of the 1940s. Uttar Pradesh, like neighbouring Bihar, has long lumbered with deserved ill-repute. “Lawless” is among the first descriptions that float up at its mention. Successive governments have been not merely derelict but encouraging of lawlessness, and have used crime and muscle, overtly or covertly, as an instrument for grabbing or demonstrating political power. This became particularly true of the years that the Samajwadi Party and the Bahujan Samaj Party jostled for upmanship. But the Adityanath regime comes with upscaled differences in how brazen and unapologetic it is with twisting the law to its political and social purposes. Activists have been picked up off peaceful barricades, jailed, beaten and tortured. Thereafter, through methods that mimic lumpen justice, their names, photographs and addresses have been strung up on hoardings as a way of not merely shaming them but as dog-whistling tactic. Allahabad High Court had to order those hoardings — of anti-CAA protesters — pulled down because they amounted to “unwarranted interference in the privacy of people”. Dr Kafeel Khan, saviour of hundreds of ailing children in Gorakhpur, has been systematically hounded and repeatedly jailed. Again, the courts had to strike down National Security Act charges against him; he had to be assisted to relocate to Rajasthan. But Rajasthan isn’t far beyond Adityanath’s sights because he has publicly sworn that he “shall not stop till I turn UP and India into Hindu Rashtra”. Dr Khan might want in the future to seek locations farther afield. As mahant of the Gorakhpur Math, Adityanath has been used to wielding unquestioned authority and expecting blind obeisance. Such, that he has often brooked no restraint from the law and flagrantly violated it. Jailed once in 2007 for encouraging Hindutva rioters and flouting prohibitory orders, Adityanath has often not been ashamed to play outlaw. This man is now the law in Uttar Pradesh. He hasn’t baulked at bringing peril to social peace. He has shared a stage with hate preachers and those that have made open exhorts to violence against minorities. He is the one who inspired the “love jihad” campaign a few years ago, blaming upon the minority community a civilisational conspiracy to gain ascendancy of numbers. Later, using “love jihad” as leitmotif, he played militant proselytiser, peppering the heartland with aggressive calls for a counterblast: “We must do the same with their girls. I will celebrate each one of their girls that comes into our homes, each one that becomes a Hindu and enhances our national pride!” We cannot name or identify the 19-year-old from Hathras any more than that she belonged among Dalits, but it can justly be said that she has become neither a thing of celebration nor of any pride. If anything, she is now playing an appropriated ghoul in the macabre theatre of Adityanath, the best chief minister we have.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-634
