04-10-2020||India||Hathras case: Caste-based meet held at former BJP MLA's home||Around 700-800 people on Sunday held a caste-based meeting at the residence of former BJP MLA Rajvir Singh Pehalvan here on the issue the death of a Dalit woman after she was sexually assaulted.

The meeting was held a day after UP Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath ordered a CBI probe into the incident. Heavy police force was deployed in the vicinity of the former BJP MLA's house, located around 8-9 kilometres from the victim's village.

One of the organisers of the meeting and Pehalvan's son Manveer Singh, however, denied that the gathering comprised members from the so-called upper castes and said they were from different sections of society .

We welcome the CBI inquiry ordered by the Uttar Pradesh chief minister. We have faith in the investigation, Singh told PTI while claiming that the victim's family members were changing their stand .

The entire scenario has been created to blame the government. The accused persons are in favour of any type of inquiry. But the victims are changing their stand every now and then. They do not want a narco test or a CBI probe. Now they want other kinds of inquiries, he claimed.

Singh also said various legal options were being explored to defend the accused in the case. He asserted that the arrest of some of the accused persons from their homes was proof of their innocence.

Had they been guilty, they would had run away from their homes. Why would they be present in their homes, he said.

He also alleged that the Congress and the Samajwadi Party were trying to influence the victim's family as they wanted to the issue to linger on .

The caste-based meeting assumes significance as it is being held a day after Congress leaders Rahul Gandhi and Priyanka Gandhi Vadra visited the victim's house and met her family members at a village in the district, and the recommendation of a CBI probe by Adityanath.

A fortnight after she was gangraped, the Dalit woman died of her grievous injuries in the early hours of Tuesday at a Delhi hospital.

She was cremated in the dead of the night near her home on Wednesday. Her family alleged they were forced by the local police to hurriedly conduct her last rites. Local police officers, however, had said the cremation was carried out "as per the wishes of the family"||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-630
04-10-2020||India||Union minister Ram Vilas Paswan undergoes heart surgery||Union minister and Lok Janshakti Party patron Ram Vilas Paswan has undergone a heart surgery, his son Chirag Paswan said on Sunday.

Ram Vilas Paswan (74), who has been in active politics for more than five decades and is one of the country's most noted Dalit leaders, has been hospitalised for the last few weeks.

In a tweet, Chirag Paswan said his father underwent a heart surgery due to sudden developments on Saturday evening, which forced him to cancel a party meeting and rush to his father's side.

If needed, the Union Minister for Consumer Affairs, Food and Public Distribution will undergo another operation in a few weeks, he said.

Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Home Minister Amit Shah and Defence Minister Rajnath Singh besides other senior leaders spoke to Chirag Paswan to enquire about the health of his father, LJP sources said.

Chirag Paswan thanked people for standing with him and his family in this hour of crisis.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-630
04-10-2020||India||LJP parts ways with JDU, will fight Bihar polls on its own||The Lok Janshakti Party (LJP) on Sunday indicated that it would fight the Bihar Assembly elections on its own and not under the leadership of JD(U) president and chief minister Nitish Kumar.

An LJP parliamentary board meeting chaired by its president Chirag Paswan instead passed a resolution in favour of an alliance with the BJP and said its MLAs would work to strengthen the hand of Prime Minister Narendra Modi.

The BJP has already announced that the NDA will fight the polls under the leadership of Nitish Kumar. The BJP central election committee is meeting later in the evening to finalise the party's candidates for the three-phase Assembly election, which begins from October 28. The LJP resolution makes it clear as of now that part would fight the Bihar elections on its own. "Due to the ideological differences at the state-level with the JDU, the LJP has decided to fight the Assembly elections separately," LJP's Abdul Khaliq said in a statement, ndtv.com reported. "There can be difference of ideologies on many seats with the JDU... voters should be able to decide who they want as their candidate. The LJP wants to implement the Bihar vision document and the two parties have not been able to reach a consensus on it," the official statement underlined, stressing on the party's motto-  'Bihar first-Bihari first'. Suggesting that ties with the BJP remained intact even as it parts ways with Nitish Kumar's JDU, the party stressed: "However, we have a strong alliance with the BJP and even in Bihar, we want to continue this collaboration. There is no sourness in our relations.  After the state elections, all the candidates who win will form a BJP-LJP government and follow the path of progress shown by Prime Minister Narendra Modi." Several party leaders attended the meeting including Veena Devi, Chandan Singh, Surajbhan Singh, Raju Tiwari, Prince Raj, Kali Pandey, and Abdul Khalid. The meeting, which was to be held on Saturday, was postponed after Union Minister Ram Vilas Paswan, Chirag’s father, was hospitalised. He underwent a heart surgery last night at a hospital in Delhi, Paswan Junior said in a tweet on Sunday morning. Prime Minster Narendra Modi, Defence Minister Rajnath Singh and Home Minister Amit Shah called up Chirag Paswan to enquire about his father's health and told him that once his father recovers, "he will be proud of how well his son looked after him".||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-630
04-10-2020||India||Shopian encounter: Hardest journey, with son in coffin||As a nomadic shepherd, Mohammad Yousuf has always been on the move but on Saturday he embarked on the most agonising journey of his life. Yousuf was accompanying his dead son Mohammad Abrar, 25, lying in a brand new wooden coffin that concealed his bullet-disfigured body, now in the early stages of decay. The bodies of Abrar — father of an 18-month-old boy — and his cousins Ibrar and Imtiyaz, killed in an alleged fake encounter by the army in Shopian in July, were exhumed early on Saturday. This was 73 days after they had been buried in the remote village of Gantimulla in Baramulla, north Kashmir. Yousuf and a few other family members had travelled all the way from their home in Rajouri, Jammu, on Friday to take the bodies back. On Saturday, the 240km trip back home felt like a journey without end. “My son’s face is smashed, as with the other guys. What had they done to deserve this? They killed my innocent son without reason,” Yousuf told The Telegraph. “I’m over 50, but never in my life have I felt so much pain during any journey. We left the village (Gantimulla) at 5.30am and would be reaching home in the evening. But this journey seems unending.” The three victims had travelled to Kashmir in search of livelihood so they could help their poor families, further impoverished by the pandemic. On July 17 night, they fell to bullets fired by the army’s 62 Rashtriya Rifles at Amshipora, Shopian. The army claimed the trio were unidentified militants. As is the norm with unidentified militants, they were buried in a remote graveyard in Baramulla. On August 10, the families stumbled upon social media pictures of the three “dead militants” and realised they were their missing children. After an uproar, the police and the army launched separate investigations. Several weeks later, the police confirmed a DNA match between samples taken from the Rajouri families and the slain youths. The government has promised justice, something in short supply for bereaved families in Kashmir. But Yousuf has not given up hope. “It’s now confirmed that they killed innocent men. They should be punished,” he said. Activist Guftar Ahmad, who has been leading the campaign for justice and accompanied the families to Baramulla and back, said the bodies had been fully or partially disfigured from gunshot wounds. “Imtiyaz’s face was burnt beyond recognition. Abrar’s face had gunshot wounds and Ibrar’s chest was riddled with bullets,” he said. “The families wept as the bodies were exhumed. Thousands thronged the village as we returned home. All the people are in mourning.” Ibrar, a 17-year-old Class XI student, was the youngest of the three. Imtiyaz was 22. The families had fought for the return of the bodies so they could be given a traditional burial in their ancestral graveyards. Security forces were deployed in strength during the exhumation, and the media were prevented from getting close. There were no names on the three graves, nor on any of the others in the graveyard — the resting place allegedly of militants killed in encounters. Still, locating the trio’s graves was not difficult. The gravedigger, familiar with their pictures circulating on social media, identified the graves. Guftar said the three had been buried in graves number 65, 66 and 67 — a grim reminder of how the Valley is home to numerous graves of unidentified men. The state human rights commission says Jammu and Kashmir has thousands of such graves. The government claims these are the graves of Pakistani militants killed in gunfights. But the Kashmir-based Association of Parents of Disappeared Persons believes that many of the graves are those of their members’ missing sons. The association alleges that 8,000 Kashmiris have “disappeared” while in the custody of security forces. Last month, nine UN rapporteurs wrote to the Centre seeking an investigation into the allegations of forced disappearance and mass graves in Jammu and Kashmir.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-631
04-10-2020||India||Hathras rape case: Yogi yields, Congress team meets family||The mother of the Hathras victim wept inconsolably in Priyanka Gandhi’s embrace on Saturday evening, her pent-up emotions released at the first touch of sympathy from the political spectrum after weeks of hurtful insensitivity and harassment from the Yogi Adityanath government. The poignant scene unfolded when Rahul Gandhi, Priyanka and three other Congress leaders arrived at her home, succeeding in their second attempt in three days to reach the barricaded village after the administration blinked following initial resistance. Footage showed Priyanka jumping over a small lane divider and rushing to shield a Congress supporter who was surrounded by lathi-wielding policemen. Priyanka stood between the man and the police in the melee that involved considerable shoving and pushing. At one point, a helmeted police officer could be seen grabbing Priyanka’s kurta, prompting a journalist to tweet: “A male police officer grabbing the kurta of Priyanka Gandhi is a symbol of how drunk on power UP police has gotten.” The five Congress leaders were the first senior politicians to visit the family who had been turned prisoners in their home by the state administration the last few days, denied any contact with the outside world and allegedly roughed up when they sought to step out. For the grieving mother, Priyanka’s would have been among the first offers of a shoulder to cry on from someone outside the family, since even her immediate neighbourhood is dominated by people who have rallied behind the upper-caste accused. The family narrated their ordeal to the Congress leaders and pleaded for help in securing justice. When Rahul and Priyanka asked about the administration’s act of cursorily burning the girl’s body — without the family’s consent or participation or even a proper funeral, and after locking the family at their home — the mother’s tears began flowing again. Priyanka, with an arm around the mother’s shoulders, spoke to the other women of the family while Rahul listened intently as the victim’s father, brother and uncles recounted the gruesome events. The 19-year-old girl had allegedly been gang-raped and had her tongue cut off and spine broken by four assailants on September 14. She died in a Delhi hospital on September 29, amid allegations that the administration had denied her the best possible treatment and tried to dilute the charges against the accused. As soon as she died, the police hijacked her body from the hospital and forcibly burnt it at her village cremation ground. When Rahul asked whether the family preferred a CBI probe, the family expressed faith in a judicial probe instead. Sometime later, PTI reported that chief minister Adityanath had recommended a CBI probe shortly after additional chief secretary (home) Awanish Awasthi and state police chief H.C. Awasthi met the victim’s family at their home. The news agency too quoted the family as saying they preferred a Supreme Court-monitored inquiry. The BJP accused Rahul and Priyanka of playing politics, perhaps remembering how their grandmother Indira Gandhi had reaped political benefits from her visit to Bihar’s Belchi village after a massacre of Dalits decades ago. While the siblings’ visit would have been driven as much by political considerations as by humane sentiments, a Congress leader wondered: “If politics is not done on injustice and crime, should it be done only to divide and rule?” The brutalised family would have desperately needed the healing touch — and the sense of reassurance that only the powerful can provide — having seen the state administration fail their daughter in life and death, the police go slow on the case, and ruling party members dispute her deathbed statement identifying the accused. After the 40-minute meeting, Rahul vowed to take up the family’s cause and said the Congress would go wherever injustice had been committed. Priyanka said the family was worried about its security. With the administration permitting just five from the Congress convoy to visit the village, Adhir Chowdhury, Mukul Wasnik and K.C. Venugopal accompanied Rahul and Priyanka while MP Shashi Tharoor and party communications chief Randeep Surjewala stayed behind. That permission had come after a battle of nerves. On Thursday, the Uttar Pradesh police had prevented a Congress team from entering the state and meeting the Hathras family, with Rahul being pushed to the ground amid the fracas. On Saturday, too, the state had deployed hundreds of cops at the entry point in Noida. Anticipating the blockade, the Congress had mobilised a huge crowd to try and pressure the administration into changing its stand. With over 5,000 agitated Congress supporters, men and women, gathered at the Delhi-Noida border with hundreds of vehicles — which caused a traffic jam on the extremely busy road — it wasn’t easy for the administration to turn them down. Thursday’s daylong drama on the Yamuna Expressway had provided the Congress with much publicity and goodwill, and Saturday’s much bigger crowd had the potential to kick up a bigger ruckus on the roads. Besides, the administration had already in the morning allowed the media to meet the family. Senior police officers offered Rahul and Priyanka passage for five people and their security vehicles if the crowds returned from that point. Although the Congress workers were eager to accompany their leaders, Rahul appealed to them to return. Still, the police wielded the baton to stop party workers from jumping the barricade, the fracas generating dramatic visuals of Priyanka engaged in a scuffle to protect a Congress worker from the police’s caning in the middle of a frenzied crowd. Earlier, around 25 MPs had followed Rahul and Priyanka to the border, travelling in a bus behind the leader’s car. The convoy’s halt at the Noida border created a media spectacle for around two hours, and the Congress leaders made the most of it. Surjewala addressed the media there, saying: “Is it a crime to stand by the victim, to wipe the tears of the family? Chief minister Yogi Adityanath is a coward. But let him get this clear — his police and their lathis and guns can’t suppress the Congress’s voice.” Tharoor said: “We want to express solidarity with the family, which is grappling with unprecedented atrocities. The suspension of police officials is too little too late.” Congress leaders expressed shock at the special investigation team’s recommendation for narco-analysis tests on the victim’s family. They argued that the test should instead be done on the Hathras district magistrate to ascertain who had ordered the forcible burning of the victim’s body in the middle of the night.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-631
04-10-2020||India||Google Goliath vs Indian Davids: Startups vow to fight ‘big daddy’ dominance||Dozens of India’s technology startups, chafing at Google’s local dominance of key apps, are banding together to consider ways to challenge the US tech giant, including by lodging complaints with the government and courts, executives told Reuters. Although Google, owned by Alphabet Inc, has worked closely with India’s booming startup sector and is ramping up its investments, it has recently angered many tech companies with what they say are unfair practices. Setting the stage for a potential showdown, entrepreneurs held two videoconferences this week to strategise, three executives told Reuters. “It’s definitely going to be a bitter fight,” said Dinesh Agarwal, CEO of e-commerce firm IndiaMART. “Google will lose this battle. It’s just a matter of time.” He said executives had discussed forming a new startup association aimed chiefly at lodging protests with the Indian government and courts against the Silicon Valley company. Nearly 99 per cent of the smartphones of India’s half a billion users run on Google’s Android mobile operating system. Some Indian startups say that allows Google to exert excessive control over the types of apps and other services they can offer, an allegation the company denies. The uproar began last month when Google removed popular payments app Paytm from its Play Store, citing policy violations. This led to a sharp rebuke from the Indian firm’s founder, Vijay Shekhar Sharma, whose app returned to the Google platform a few hours later, after Paytm made certain changes. In a video call on Tuesday, Sharma called Google the “big daddy” that controls the “oxygen supply of (app) distribution” on Android phones, according to an attendee. He urged the roughly 50 executives on the call to join hands to “stop this tsunami”. “If we together don’t do anything, then history will not be kind to us. We have to control our digital destiny,” Sharma said. One idea raised was to launch a local rival to Google’s app store, but Sharma said this would not be immediately effective given Google’s dominance, one source said. Sharma and Paytm, which is backed by Japan’s SoftBank Group Corp, did not respond to requests for comment. Google declined to comment. It has previously said its policies aim to protect Android users and that it applies and enforces them consistently on developers. This week the US company angered some Indian startups by deciding to enforce a 30 per cent commission it charges on payments made within apps on the Android store. Two dozen executives were on a call on Friday where many slammed that decision. They discussed filing antitrust complaints and approaching Google’s India head for discussions, said two sources with direct knowledge of the call. Participants included sports technology firm Dream Sports, backed by US hedge fund Tiger Global, social media company ShareChat and digital payments firm PhonePe, the sources said. None of those companies responded to requests for comment. Google defends the policy, saying 97 per cent of apps worldwide comply with it. Google already faces an antitrust case related to its payments app in India and a competition investigation into claims it abused Android’s dominant position. The company says it complies with all laws. These spats strain Google’s strong ties to Indian startups. It has invested in some and helped hundreds with product development. In July, its Indian-born CEO Sundar Pichai committed $10 billion in new investments over five to seven years. The conflict “is counterproductive to what Google has been doing — it’s an odd place for them to be,” said a senior tech executive familiar with Google’s thinking. “It’s a reputation issue. It’s in the interest of Google to resolve this issue.” Google looms over every aspect of the industry. Paytm on Saturday told several startup founders, in a communication seen by Reuters, that it was collating input on challenges to Google Play Store and its policies to submit to the authorities. To craft their attack, they are using a shared Google document.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-631
04-10-2020||India||Covid: India seeks ‘unhindered’ sharing of medical products||India and South Africa have asked an international trade body to enable “unhindered global sharing” of technology and knowhow to make available enough diagnostic tests, equipment, medicines, and vaccines to address the new coronavirus pandemic. The two countries have urged the World Trade Organisation’s council on intellectual property rights to waive certain provisions of the Trade Related Intellectual Property Rights agreement towards the prevention, containment and treatment of Covid-19. Their submission, made on Friday, says that as new diagnostics, therapeutics and vaccines for Covid-19 are developed, there are “significant concerns” over how these would be made available promptly, in sufficient quantities and at affordable prices to meet the global demand. While a rapid scale-up of the global production is “an obvious crucial solution”, the submission said, there are concerns about intellectual property rights “hindering or potentially hindering” the timely distribution of affordable products. The submission has requested the TRIPS council to waive certain provisions to allow the global sharing of technology and knowhow and facilitate large-scale domestic production of Covid-related products. “The waiver should continue until widespread vaccination is in place globally, and the majority of the world’s population has developed immunity. Hence we propose an initial duration of [x] years from the date of the adoption of the waiver,” the submission said. The submission’s use of “x” in square brackets, instead of specifying a precise number, signifies its openness to international negotiation over the length of the waiver period. Patients’ rights advocates have welcomed the India-South Africa proposal and are hoping other governments would support the call. “It is crucial that other WTO member governments support this,” Leena Menghaney, a lawyer and South Asia regional head for the access campaign of Medecins Sans Frontieres, the international humanitarian agency, told The Telegraph. “We need this to ensure that drugs, vaccines and other medical tools needed for Covid-19 can be scaled up by countries and their manufacturers without facing protracted negotiations for licences.” The TRIPS council’s next session is scheduled on October 15-16. Analysts said they were watching how the European Union, Japan, Switzerland, the UK and the US respond to the call. Menghaney underlined that in 2011, the Doha Declaration on TRIPS and public health had affirmed that governments were free to take all necessary measures to protect public health. “Very simply, it puts governments in the driving seat to be able to put life before profit. The India-South Africa proposal does precisely that for Covid-19,” she said. The proposal, if adopted, will help address two key concerns — prices and production capacity. Earlier this year, Costa Rica, Chile and the World Health Organisation had announced a platform to pool data, knowledge and intellectual property relating to existing or new Covid-19 health products with the objective of delivering the necessary goods for all people and countries. Open sharing of science and data would enable numerous companies to access the information they need to produce the technologies, thereby scaling up availability worldwide, lowering costs and increasing access, the WHO had said in May. “Traditional market models will not deliver at the scale needed to cover the entire globe,” WHO director-general Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus had said. “Solidarity within and between countries and the private sector is essential if we are to overcome these difficult times.” Medical activists say the concerns are global and that the developed countries too may face challenges. Ellen t’Hoen, an international medical activist in the Netherlands, had in a report in the journal Nature Medicine earlier this year cited an instance of her country facing difficulties in scaling up testing for Covid-19 because of the shortage of a biochemical needed in the testing machines. While pharmacists could in principle make the solution, a private company refused to reveal the formula and the technical specifications, t’Hoen said. “The Netherlands government, following a fierce debate in its Parliament, successfully pressured (the company) to release the formula,” she wrote. India and South Africa have asked an international trade body to enable “unhindered global sharing” of technology and knowhow to make available enough diagnostic tests, equipment, medicines, and vaccines to address the new coronavirus pandemic. The two countries have urged the World Trade Organisation’s council on intellectual property rights to waive certain provisions of the Trade Related Intellectual Property Rights agreement towards the prevention, containment and treatment of Covid-19. Their submission, made on Friday, says that as new diagnostics, therapeutics and vaccines for Covid-19 are developed, there are “significant concerns” over how these would be made available promptly, in sufficient quantities and at affordable prices to meet the global demand. While a rapid scale-up of the global production is “an obvious crucial solution”, the submission said, there are concerns about intellectual property rights “hindering or potentially hindering” the timely distribution of affordable products. The submission has requested the TRIPS council to waive certain provisions to allow the global sharing of technology and knowhow and facilitate large-scale domestic production of Covid-related products. “The waiver should continue until widespread vaccination is in place globally, and the majority of the world’s population has developed immunity. Hence we propose an initial duration of [x] years from the date of the adoption of the waiver,” the submission said. The submission’s use of “x” in square brackets, instead of specifying a precise number, signifies its openness to international negotiation over the length of the waiver period. Patients’ rights advocates have welcomed the India-South Africa proposal and are hoping other governments would support the call. “It is crucial that other WTO member governments support this,” Leena Menghaney, a lawyer and South Asia regional head for the access campaign of Medecins Sans Frontieres, the international humanitarian agency, told The Telegraph. “We need this to ensure that drugs, vaccines and other medical tools needed for Covid-19 can be scaled up by countries and their manufacturers without facing protracted negotiations for licences.” The TRIPS council’s next session is scheduled on October 15-16. Analysts said they were watching how the European Union, Japan, Switzerland, the UK and the US respond to the call. Menghaney underlined that in 2011, the Doha Declaration on TRIPS and public health had affirmed that governments were free to take all necessary measures to protect public health. “Very simply, it puts governments in the driving seat to be able to put life before profit. The India-South Africa proposal does precisely that for Covid-19,” she said. The proposal, if adopted, will help address two key concerns — prices and production capacity. Earlier this year, Costa Rica, Chile and the World Health Organisation had announced a platform to pool data, knowledge and intellectual property relating to existing or new Covid-19 health products with the objective of delivering the necessary goods for all people and countries. Open sharing of science and data would enable numerous companies to access the information they need to produce the technologies, thereby scaling up availability worldwide, lowering costs and increasing access, the WHO had said in May. “Traditional market models will not deliver at the scale needed to cover the entire globe,” WHO director-general Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus had said. “Solidarity within and between countries and the private sector is essential if we are to overcome these difficult times.” Medical activists say the concerns are global and that the developed countries too may face challenges. Ellen t’Hoen, an international medical activist in the Netherlands, had in a report in the journal Nature Medicine earlier this year cited an instance of her country facing difficulties in scaling up testing for Covid-19 because of the shortage of a biochemical needed in the testing machines. While pharmacists could in principle make the solution, a private company refused to reveal the formula and the technical specifications, t’Hoen said. “The Netherlands government, following a fierce debate in its Parliament, successfully pressured (the company) to release the formula,” she wrote.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-631
04-10-2020||India||Graft cuffs on former CBI officer||The CBI on Saturday arrested a recently retired agency officer, who had probed the fodder scam and other highprofile cases, on bribery charges. Sources said N.M.P. Sinha, who had retired in August, was caught accepting Rs 25 lakh, allegedly provided by Usha Martin, to settle a case against the company. He was arrested “along with a private person who had allegedly delivered the bribe”, an official said. Sinha was officer on special duty in 2018 to then CBI special director Rakesh Asthana, considered a Narendra Modi favourite. The CBI on Saturday searched eight locations in multiple cities, including Sinha’s home in Faridabad, Usha Martin’s office in Jharkhand and premises in Delhi and Ghaziabad. Sources said Sinha had, while posted in the agency’s economic offences wing, handled a cheating case against Usha Martin’s mining arm over an ironore mining lease in Jharkhand. “He allegedly demanded a Rs 25lakh bribe to settle the case,” a CBI officer said. The agency has registered a case of criminal conspiracy and cheating against the promoters of Usha Martin and a former mines director of Jharkhand, sources said. “The state government had favoured Usha Martin as a special case for captive consumption in its recommendation to the Centre for the mine allotment, in Singhbhum in 2005, after the company allegedly promised to use the entire ore in its steel plants in Jharkand,” a CBI official said. The CBI alleges the firm later backtracked citing the Centre’s denial of a special provision it had sought in the lease.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-631
04-10-2020||India||Bihar alliance finalises deal for Assembly elections||The Opposition Grand Alliance in Bihar on Saturday finalised its seat-sharing formula for the October-November Assembly elections but a fledgling partner immediately exited the grouping alleging deception. The Vikassheel Insan Party (VIP) of Bollywood set designer Mukesh Sahni created a ruckus at the meeting where the deal was finalised and staged a walkout in full view of television cameras. The meeting in Patna began with the leaders observing a minute’s silence in honour of the Hathras gang-rape-and-murder victim, signalling that the crime and the BJP-led Uttar Pradesh government’s questionable handling of the situation would be a poll plank in neighbouring Bihar, ruled by a BJP-JDU alliance. Lalu Prasad’s Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD), the largest party in the Assembly with 80 MLAs, took the lion’s share of the seats. It will contest 144 seats while the Congress will put up candidates in 70 seats. Nineteen seats have been allocated to the CPI-ML, six to the CPI and four to the CPM. The deal was struck after days of hard bargain at a time the Opposition camp in Bihar has been in disarray because of switchovers and bickering. Leaders of all parties in the alliance were present at the meeting. By announcing the distribution of seats, however, the Grand Alliance is one step ahead of the ruling NDA, which is grappling with differences between chief minister Nitish Kumar’s JDU, the BJP and Ram Vilas Paswan’s Lok Janshakti Party. The Congress will also contest the Valmikinagar Lok Sabha bypoll, necessitated by the death of JDU MP Baidyanath Prasad Mahto. The Bihar Assembly has 243 seats. The elections will be held in three phases on October 28, November 3 and 7. The results will be declared on November 10. The nomination process for the first phase began on October 1 and will end on October 9. While announcing the seat-sharing deal in the presence of journalists, RJD leader Tejashwi Prasad Yadav said his party would “accommodate VIP and the Jharkhand Mukti Morcha (JMM)” from the RJD’s share of 144 seats, adding that “a decision would be taken in two to three days”. VIP chief Sahni, who launched the party in November 2018, stood up and said: “A son of the extremely backward caste (EBC) has been insulted and stabbed in the back. We had been discussing the seat-sharing deal for days but have been deceived at the last moment. Our party will no longer be part of the alliance.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-631
04-10-2020||India||Depths of depravity and callousness in governance: Former bureaucrats in letter to Yogi||Nearly 100 retired bureaucrats on Saturday wrote an open letter to Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath, expressing pain at the “constant plumbing the depths of depravity and callousness in governance” and demanding punishment for the officials who had failed the Hathras rape victim. They, however, reminded Adityanath that as the chief executive of the state, he bore the ultimate responsibility for what had happened. “Your actions over the past three-and-a-half years give us little reason to believe that your actions are motivated by respect for the rule of law. We urge you to conduct your administration in accordance with the letter and spirit of the Constitution of India, to which you have sworn allegiance when you assumed office,” the letter, written on behalf of Constitutional Conduct, a collective of retired civil servants, said. The letter expressed hope that the chief minister would deliver justice to the Hathras victim and her family “without fear or favour, despite the efforts of specific upper caste groups to interfere with the course of justice”. It referred to the haste with which the victim’s body was cremated in the dead of the night without her family’s consent or participation. “Being a person attached to a persuasion of the Hindu faith, you would be well aware that Hindu customs require the nearest kin to offer agni to the mortal remains. Both the sacred traditions and the family’s pleas that they would perform the cremation in the mo-rning were ignored,” it said. “To add insult to injury, a policeman is reported to have told the bereaved family that they were also to blame and the district magistrate has apparently been captured on video making veiled threats to the family that they should be careful about their statements to the media, because the officials would be around even after the media departs.” The collective voiced its scepticism as it referred to reports that Prime Minister Narendra Modi had asked Adityanath to fast-track the case to secure an early conviction. “With our experience as erstwhile administrators in different departments of the central and state governments, our group of former civil servants had, in the past, highlighted the brazen violations of the rule of law in the Unnao rape case and in the murder of the police inspector in Bulandshahr,” the letter said. “We note with concern that, even after two years, the ghastly murder of a brother officer has not stirred the UP police and your administration to bring the case to closure. In these circumstances, we may be forgiven for viewing UP’s fast-track justice system with scepticism.” Inspector Subodh Kumar Singh was shot dead in December 2018 while trying to control a mob rampaging in Bulandshahr over an alleged instance of cow slaughter. The letter expressed concern also about the “novel interpretations of fast-track justice” on Yogi Adityanath’s watch. “In recent days, we have seen two instances where alleged criminals have met their deaths while being transported by the police to Uttar Pradesh. Even if they were guilty of the offences listed against them, they were entitled, under the Constitution of India and the laws of the land, to a fair trial. Denial of this right amounts to violation of Article 21 of the Constitution,” it said. The collective described as “reprehensible” Adityanath’s decision to withdraw cases registered against him in the past. “Politicians never tire of saying ‘the law must take its course’. Why depart from this article of faith for your party and government?” the letter asked. Among the signatories to the letter were former national security adviser (NSA) Shivshankar Menon, former health secretary Sujatha Rao, former deputy NSA Vijaya Latha Reddy, former finance secretary Narendra Sisodia, former ambassadors Navrekha Sharma and Deb Mukharji, and former Bengal DGP (Intelligence) A.K. Samanta.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-631
04-10-2020||India||The King’s Palace, The Dark Room||With films like Mulk, Article 15 and Thappad, Anubhav Sinha has marked out a salient space for socially and politically interrogative cinema. His blunt, in-your-face work has become a thing of wide acclaim. Through the recent lockdown, he  put his energies into directing Bambai mein kaa baa, a Bhojpuri paean to the anguish of migrant workers sung and performed, rap-style, by Manoj Bajpai; it became a runaway chartbuster. For a while now, Sinha has also been among a palmful of film industry eminences screaming concern over national drift in directions he deems palpably disturbing. His is a voice of anger, outrage, frustration, suffocation; often stentorian, often also directed inwards. Amid the bizarre and unbounded shenanigan that has trailed the death of Sushant Singh Rajput, he tweeted: “Obviously Bollywood doesn’t know how to collectively stand up for itself and it’ll pay the price.” On the stunning “not guilty” Babri demolition verdict, Sinha tweeted: “Congratulations Mr Lal Krishna Advani you are now acquitted of the charges of single-handedly drawing a bloody line across the soul of this country...” His Twitter timeline, to use Twitter terminology, burns with much else, and burns consistently. We invited Sinha to articulate what it is that hurts and troubles him, and often leaves him distraught. He sent us this breathless allegory of a nightmare. In a 1987 essay on Ryszard Kapuscinski’s memoir of Angola, Salman Rushdie wrote: “What is ‘normal’ in these abnormal days? For many of us, any definition of the quotidian would still include notions of peace and stability. We would still, perhaps, wish to picture everyday life as rhythmic, based on settled and repeating social patterns. Ryszard Kapuscinski’s work seems to be based on his knowledge that such conventional descriptions of actuality are now so limited in application that they have, in a way, become fictions.” Sinha’s sense of the world around him may speak to us of a similar hyperreality, where words and narratives, as we know them, aren’t able to measure up to our daily extraordinariness. His missive came appended to a soulful Ghalib couplet on loss and bewilderment as description of the human condition.
-- Sankarshan Thakur I am running breathless and still wondering if it is a dream. But my scars are real. I am hurting, bleeding. I can hear the crowd chasing me, weapons in their hands. I can hear the beastly growl over my right shoulder. I am running and wondering if they will kill me or be content to wound me and let me live. I cannot take the chance. I have never been great at running, especially running away. Am I even running in the right direction? There are no roads ahead of me. I see a wall and some people facing the wall. They are not looking at me; they can’t hear me scream for help; they can’t hear the murderous crowd chasing me. When I reach the wall, will I morph into the people facing the wall, turn my back towards the mayhem behind us? I am trying to remember why and how I got here. My father wanted me to work at the bank near the King’s Palace. I was good at mathematics and better at English, the language the Queen liked and her servants revered. Every day on my way to the school I crossed that Magic Lane on my left. Children like me would gather there to wondrously stare at the famous Show Square at the far end of the Magic Lane. At the Show Square, there was a circus, and musicals on stage that you could only watch after buying tickets. There was a man on stilts and there was a man who walked straight on a tilted wall. There were body builders and dancers, singers and magicians. People who bought tickets could watch them from close. We watched them from a distance. All the children longed to meet the wizards. I was the only one who wanted to be a wizard. I felt I knew them personally. I loved them. I admired them. I always wondered what made them artistes. Someday, I believed I would meet them. I wanted to perform with them. Most of my friends did not know I wanted to do that and those who did laughed at me. They said they were great artistes. When they performed the world watched in awe. I did not stand a chance. I had never performed before but I was fascinated by them. One day I snuck in without ticket. I saw them performing up close. The power of their art moved me; their dialogue inspired me. The Stilt Man was the best. In the middle of the act he would suddenly stop and say out loud, “Ladies and Gentlemen.” This was the moment. Every Performer would freeze looking at the Stilt Man. He would then deliver my favourite monologue. I had heard it from the far end of the lane numerous times. That day I heard it a few metres away from him. The Stilt Man looked into my eyes at the peak of his soliloquy and tears began to roll down my cheeks. Suddenly each one of them looked at me. The show stopped. The Body Builder came to me and asked politely, “Why do you cry, kid?” I had no words. I continued to cry. I had loved them for years and now they were all looking at me. They had large hearts. They cared about vulnerable people like me. They wanted to help people like me. The Body Builder, who played the villain, was kneeling down before me holding my hand, asking if I needed something. I don’t know what happened for a moment. I said I wanted to perform with them. They cheered for me. They clapped and the Man from the Tilted Wall softly asked me, “What is your performance, kid?” I said, “I write stories.” Stories about people. Stories about the King. Stories about the Dark Room in the King’s Palace. They had heard about the Dark Room but they never spoke about it. Suddenly all of them stepped back. They left the stage to me. The Joker announced that the new kid will tell stories about the Dark Room in the King’s Palace. A terrifying silence followed. I looked at them all. The Joker looked at them all. “Why are you all so scared about a story?” the Joker said. “Come on, kid! Tell the story you want to tell.” I froze. Everyone was looking at me. I did not want to be the first one to tell the story of the Dark Room in the King’s Palace. Suddenly a very frail man appeared from a corner. The Show Square was quiet. The Frail Man walked to the centre of the stage. All the legends watched. “Those stories must be told,” the Frail Man said. “If a kid does not have the courage to start the story, I will.” But I suspect I will not be able to tell the whole story, the Frail Man said. “Are there people among us who will take the story forward?” he asked. Another man rose and offered to be the second one to tell the story. A third Storyteller rose, then the fourth Storyteller rose, and then the fifth Storyteller rose. Slow-ly, the Show Square was filled with Storytellers. The Frail Man whispered to me, “You will have to complete the story. You will be the last Storyteller. If you can finish the story about the Dark Room in the King’s Palace, then there will be no palace. There will be no King. There should be no King. It is your destiny to complete the story. Will you?” He was trembling with passion as he stared into my eyes. I was not going to lie to him. He asked again, “Will you complete the story?” “Yes! I will complete the story. I will complete the story about the Dark Room in the King’s Palace,” I replied. As I spoke those words, the King’s soldiers began to appear from nowhere. The famous Performers were looking at the Frail Man. They adopted positions from where they would seem detached and disinterested. I was surprised. It was forbidden to talk about the Dark Room. Everybody seemed certain that the Frail Man wasn’t going to tell the story. The crowd waited. Their eyes were on the Frail Man. If he would start telling the story, other Storytellers would follow and then it would be my turn to complete the story. I saw one of the Body Builders leave. The soldiers were spreading out in a manner that no one could leave if they wanted to stop them. I felt certain the Frail Man wouldn’t start telling the story. He looked at the soldiers; he looked at the artistes. The Frail Man walked to the centre of the Show Square. A big group to the left of the soldiers clapped for him. Some others moved closer to that group. The Frail Man started to tell the story. The group on the left clapped again. The soldiers pounced on them. I could see at the far end the Man on the Tilted Wall was leaving the Show Square. The Frail Man continued the story. A soldier pointed the gun at him and the Frail Man told the story louder. The Frail Man continued and the soldier fired. “The story has to be told. The story has to be completed,” the Frail Man screamed before he slumped on the floor. The Second Storyteller took over. The soldier shot the Frail Man again. The Performers tried to leave but the gates were closed. The Performers looked away towards the walls. The Second Storyteller continued the story. A soldier shot him. The group on the left, the ones who clapped for the Storytellers, was being flogged as life bled out of the Second Storyteller. It was the most powerful, the most necessary story. But as the soldiers continued killing the Storytellers, I knew we were going to fall short of Storytellers to complete the story of the Dark Room in the King’s Palace. The soldiers flogged the cheering group; they fell on the floor, wounded, bleeding. The few men and women still standing in the cheering group implored the Performers to come forward, to keep telling the story. I hoped the Performers would tell the story and complete it. Then I wouldn’t have to. But none of the Performers was willing to tell the story. The last Storyteller was shot by a soldier. It was my turn. I walked slowly to the centre of the Show Square. The soldiers flogged the few men and women left standing in the cheering group. They implored me through their sobs to tell the story, to complete the story. I was full of fear. I was afraid to complete the story of the Dark Room in the King’s Palace. I turned towards the Performers and let out a scream, a question. “O, Performers! Tell me what to do? Shall I tell and complete the story? Or shall I choose silence like you did?” Only a small part of the story was left to tell. I was full of fear. I was alone on the stage. I was still standing on the Show Square with the silence of the Performers. I asked my question again. “Tell me what to do? Shall I tell and complete the story?” I would have happily told the rest of the story. I was a kid full of fear. I was alone. All I needed was a word of support, a nod from the Performers. I would have told the story. Nobody answered me. Nobody held my hand. The soldiers pointed their guns at me. I did not tell the story. I did not complete the story. I ran. The soldiers chased me. A crowd joined them and pelted stones at me. Some stones hit me. I started to bleed. I did not know what to do and I ran. I saw an open gate that I had not seen yet. Maybe it was not a gate but an illusion. Maybe a trap. I turned back for a last look at the Performers. They had left. I was alone. I ran. I ran through the gate. The soldiers, the crowd followed me. Suddenly I was in another lane I had never seen before. I knew it was a trap. I was running for my life. I would see a wall ahead of me and then suddenly another lane would open up. It couldn’t be a dream. My scars are real. I am hurting, I am bleeding. I can hear the crowd closing in on me, weapons in their hands. I can hear its beastly growl over my right shoulder. I have never been great at running, especially running away. There is a wall and there are some people facing the wall. I am still running towards the wall. Maybe the Magicians will help me? Maybe they won’t? I am running towards the wall. Anything can happen.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-631
