05-10-2020||India||'Secret' extradition proceedings on to bring Mallya, Centre tells SC||The Centre on Monday told the Supreme Court that "secret" extradition process was going on to bring fugitive businessman Vijay Mallya to the country but it was not aware about its status. The Centre also told the top court that it was not a party to the proceedings. A bench of Justices U U Lalit and Ashok Bhushan asked Mallya's lawyer to inform the court what kind of "secret" proceedings are going on to extradite him. Advocate Ankur Saigal, appearing for Mallya, told the apex court that he was not aware what kind of proceedings are going on. He said, "I have knowledge that my request against extradition has been rejected". The bench also directed Mallya's lawyers to apprise by November 2 as to when can the fugitive businessman appear before the court and when the "secret" proceedings are going to end. Advocate Rajat Nair, appearing for the Centre, told the court that extradition request has been made as per the direction of the court. "Some secret extradition proceedings are going on to which we are not a party. "Extradition proceedings have been upheld by the highest court of UK but it has not been happening as of now," he said. The apex court had earlier directed Mallya to appear before it on October 5 while dismissing his plea seeking review of the 2017 verdict which held him guilty of contempt for transferring USD 40 million to his children in violations of court orders. Mallya, an accused in bank loan default case of over Rs 9,000 crore involving his defunct Kingfisher Airlines, is in the United Kingdom. The apex court had in June directed its registry to explain as to why Mallya's review petition had not been listed before the concerned court for the last three years. It had directed the registry to furnish all the details including names of officials who had dealt with the file concerning the review petition in the last three years. The apex court's 2017 order had come on a plea by consortium of banks led by the State Bank of India (SBI), which had said that Mallya had allegedly transferred USD 40 million received from British firm Diageo, to his children in "flagrant violation" of various judicial orders. It was dealing with pleas of lending banks seeking contempt action and a direction to Mallya to deposit USD 40 million received from offshore firm Diageo respectively. The banks had then alleged that Mallya concealed the facts and diverted the money to his son Siddharth Mallya and daughters Leanna Mallya and Tanya Mallya in "flagrant violation" of the orders passed by the Karnataka High Court. Mallya had in May lost his application seeking leave to appeal his extradition to India in the UK Supreme Court, setting a 28-day clock on his removal from the UK. The UK top court's decision marks a big legal setback to the 64-year-old flamboyant businessman, who had earlier lost his high court appeal against an extradition order to India on charges of alleged fraud and money laundering related to unrecovered loans to his now-defunct Kingfisher Airlines. Secret" extradition proceedings going on to bring Mallya: Centre tells SCMallya has been based in the UK since March 2016 and remains on bail on an extradition warrant executed three years ago by Scotland Yard on April 18, 2017.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-629
05-10-2020||India||CBI recovers Rs 50 lakh from multiple premises of DK Shivakumar||The CBI has till now recovered Rs 50 lakh from multiple premises it has searched in a corruption case related to Congress leader D K Shivakumar, officials said on Monday. The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) is carrying out searches at 14 locations in Karnataka, Delhi and Maharashtra in the case that pertains to amassing of disproportionate assets, they said. The search operation may be expanded during the day, the officials said. The CBI has registered a fresh case against the Congress leader based on a source information from another agency. The information relates to assets amassed during Shivakumar's tenure as a minister in Karnataka, they said. Following the registration of FIR, CBI teams started searches on Monday morning at 14 locations -- nine in Karnataka, four in Delhi and one in Mumbai. So far, Rs 50 lakh has been recovered from premises of Shivakumar, his family members and associates during the searches in the corruption case, the officials said. Places that are being searched include properties of Shivakumar's brother and MP from Bengaluru Rural D K Suresh, according to sources. CBI sleuths reached their residences in Bengaluru and also at Doddalahalli in Kanakapura early this morning. "CBI has registered a case against the then minister of the Karnataka government and others on the allegations of acquisition of disproportionate assets. Searches are being conducted today at 14 locations including nine in Karnataka, four in Delhi, one in Mumbai," the CBI said in a statement. Congress leaders have hit out at the BJP governments at the Centre and in Karnataka for the CBI searches, questioning its timing ahead of the November 3 bypolls to the Sira and the R R Nagar assembly segments. Congress spokesperson Randeep Singh Surjewala termed it "raid raj" and a "Machiavellian move" by the BJP government. "The insidious game of intimidation & machinations of Modi-Yeddyurappa duo being executed by a puppet CBI by raiding @DKShivakumar won't deter us. CBI should be unearthing the layers of corruption in Yeddyurappa Govt. But, 'Raid Raj' is their only 'Machiavellian Move'!," Surjewala said on Twitter. "Let Modi & Yeddyurappa Govts & BJP's frontal organizations i.e CBI-ED-Income Tax know that Congress workers & leaders will not be cowed down nor bow down before such devious attempts.Our resolve to fight for people & expose BJP's maladministration only becomes stronger," he tweeted. Congress Legislature Party leader Siddaramaiah too in a tweet said, "@BJP4India has always tried to indulge in vindictive politics & mislead public attention. The latest CBI raid on @KPCCPresident@DKShivakumar's house is another attempt to derail our preparation for bypolls. I strongly condemn this." Congress spokesperson A S Ponnanna, who is also a senior advocate in the High Court of Karnataka, claimed that the court had asked the CBI not to precipitate as Shivakumar had questioned the permission given by the Karnataka government to the CBI to probe the alleged corruption charges against him. "I'm surprised politics is down to this level... CBI has to function under the Delhi Special Police Establishment Act, under which if they have to come to a state and investigate, they have to get permission from the state government, the permission that was given has been questioned by Shivakumar," he said. The court had said do not precipitate, what I have understood from this is- they (CBI) should have not have acted. They should have got it vacated from the court and acted, after permission from the court," Ponnanna, who served as an additional advocate general during the Congress government, said, adding that the investigation should be fair and lawful. Shivakumar was arrested on September 23 last year by the Enforcement Directorate (ED) in the money laundering case and was lodged in the Tihar jail under judicial custody. The Congress leader was released from the jail on October 23 after the Delhi High Court granted him bail.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-629
05-10-2020||India||Paswan snub to JDU seen as proxy ploy by BJP||A sour irony is descending upon Nitish Kumar, aiming for a record fourth straight term as Bihar chief minister — his main ally, the BJP, is emerging as main opposition to his ambition. As the Assembly polls near, the BJP appears less and less a coalition partner, more and more a challenger trying to manoeuvre itself into the driver’s seat and dictate power post-election at the expense of Nitish’s Janata Dal United (JDU). Sunday’s decision by Ram Vilas Paswan’s Lok Janshakti Party (LJP) to reject Nitish as leader of the NDA in Bihar is a proxy ploy by the BJP not only to erode the chief minister of agency as unchallenged alliance leader, but also to chip away at his tally in the new Assembly to a degree that he is left emaciated. Officially, the BJP still maintains Nitish will be the face of the NDA’s campaign, but it is apparent the chief minister is a placard the BJP is preparing to maim, even discard. Irrespective of the party’s official position, the LJP’s anti-Nitish overture isn’t without the BJP leadership’s endorsement; it is more likely a concerted move. Chirag Paswan, put in charge of negotiations by his ailing father, met BJP president J.P. Nadda last week in the presence of home minister Amit Shah, the de facto party boss. Long reined-in, the BJP’s renewed aspiration to pilot power in Bihar has been fed in no mean way by the limp RJD-led gathbandhan. Drubbed in two successive Lok Sabha elections and minus the stage and backroom abilities of Lalu Prasad, the gathbandhan (the Congress and the Left parties are part of it) holds out little promise of making a fight of it. Tejashwi Yadav, named lead act of the gathbandhan, cannot match his ailing and jailed father’s charisma, energy or hold. He inspires little confidence among his own party men. Former Union minister and top RJD leader Raghuvansh Prasad Singh left the party in disgust just days before he passed away in mid-September. Other party seniors have often spoken with disdain of Tejashwi’s “vagrant, disrespectful and inconsistent” ways. There are two other factors fuelling the BJP leadership’s sense that this is its hour in Bihar and it should make a grab for it. One is constant feedback from the ground that Nitish’s graph as able administrator — “sushashan babu” — is dipping and that the RJD-led alliance is displaying little signs of shoring up any benefit from that. In contrast, despite the sinking economy and the Covid-related disaffection among returning migrants, Prime Minister Narendra Modi retains his high levels of individual approval. This reporter is privy to more than one mood-tracker trend from Bihar that suggest the same broad pattern: the only leader able to float above the rest in Bihar, miraculously unaffected despite adverse performance, is Narendra Modi. The second reason, and nothing to be knocked, is simmering sentiment in the BJP ranks that Nitish “needs to be taught a lesson and now is the time”. A senior BJP leader bluntly told The Telegraph last week: “Nobody has forgotten the way Nitish ditched us in 2013 over Narendra Modi being picked as PM candidate, the top leadership least of all. We embraced him again because of compulsions, we needed to get back into power in Bihar, but those compulsions don’t apply any more.” Nitish has done his reliability as ally no favours by multiple vaults between political polarities in Bihar. Starting off as a Lalu acolyte, Nitish joined hands with the BJP and was able to oust Lalu from power in 2005. In 2013, he famously jettisoned himself from the BJP on the Modi issue and later embraced his bitter foe Lalu to contest, and win, the 2015 Assembly elections. Later, he cast Lalu aside yet again and, in the enactment of an overnight political coup, cuddled up to the BJP yet again. Through all of these flip-flops, Nitish has retained power as chief minister barring a short retreat from power during which he had handed charge to Jitan Ram Manjhi, now leader of the Hindustan Awam Morcha. “If Nitish Kumar thinks he is the wiliest politician in Bihar and the only one who can choose and discard allies, he must be made aware he is mistaken,” a Bihar BJP leader quipped during a conversation on the emerging poll scenario with this reporter. He added, meaningfully: “Do remember that Nitish has never won a Bihar election on his own; he has always managed to hold on to power by combining with a more powerful ally. If he is indeed so popular, he should try contesting on his own once and test the waters. Kitne paani mein hain pata chal jaayega…. He will learn how deep he is in the waters.” Nitish and the BJP are yet to finalise seat-sharing, but the odds are the JDU will find itself pushed. The BJP brass appears rather undeterred by the loss of the Shiv Sena and the Akali Dal as allies; Maharashtra and Punjab, they maintain, have no relevance in Bihar. The BJP probably draws some advantage from the fact that 2015 cannot be any basis for seat shares — Nitish and the BJP contested the last Assembly election as rivals. It is probably telling that although Nitish and Lalu contested an equal share of seats in 2015 — 101 each — the JDU won 69 to the RJD’s 80. The BJP is wise to Nitish’s low strike-rate record and will most likely work to trip its ally’s Assembly numbers even as it keeps the pretence of being part of the Nitish-led NDA. Paswan’s LJP is not the only move the BJP has made to that end. The creation, overnight, of a third alliance between Upendra Kushwaha’s Rashtriya Lok Samata Party (RLSP) and Mayawati’s Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP), and the sudden withdrawal of Mukesh Mallah’s Vikassheel Insan Party (VIP), a small but not insignificant vote-splitter, from the RJD gathbandhan, are clearly pawn-play to corner Nitish on the Bihar chessboard. How Nitish will play this perhaps only he knows, if that.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-629
05-10-2020||India||Lathi-happy UP police graduate from CAA protesters to public figures. Your turn next  ||Thursday: Rahul Gandhi, MP, Congress. Friday: Derek O’Brien, MP, Trinamul Congress. Saturday: Priyanka Gandhi Vadra, general secretary, Congress. Sunday: Jayant Chaudhary, former MP, RLD. When Uttar Pradesh police ran amok during the citizenship protests last winter and were accused of unspeakable brutality, the relative obscurity of the victims probably afforded many in the country an excuse to look the other way and go about their business as usual. Since then, Yogi Adityanath’s law-enforcement machine has raised the bar, graduating to strong-arming elected representatives and other public figures. The events that have unfolded in Hathras, the Uttar Pradesh district were a Dalit girl was brutalised and murdered, in the past few days have one common factor: the deployment of muscle power on public figures. Some citizens are indeed drawing vicarious pleasure from the sight of politicians getting roughed up — a daily occurrence in the lives of many a common man. Some have portrayed it as an essential rite of passage in public life, suggesting you are not an Opposition leader until you have taken a few lathi blows. But such wisecracks have deflected attention from a frightening prospect: if this is how the political elite is being treated in this country, what does it augur for the faceless citizen? On Sunday, police in Noida apologised to Priyanka Gandhi Vadra for a policeman holding her by her kurta on Saturday and said an inquiry by “a senior lady officer” had been ordered. “We, at Noida police, are committed to ensuring the safety and dignity of women,” the district police said in a statement, presumably unaware of the irony. But that did not prevent the police in Hathras from wielding the lathi on a group led by Jayant Chaudhary, former MP and grandson of former Prime Minister and peasant rights crusader Chaudhary Charan Singh. Jayant was saved only because his supporters formed a protective ring around him and took several blows on themselves. The police, who wielded the baton at least a dozen times on Sunday to break up any form of gathering in the village, rushed towards Jayant as soon as he had stepped out of the victim’s house and begun speaking to the media. Footage showed policemen beating back Jayant and those accompanying him. Jayant, a Rashtriya Lok Dal leader who had represented Mathura from 2009 to 2014, later uploaded a video of the assault and tweeted in Hindi: “If you have the right to wield the baton, I have the right to stand by my people. Wield the baton as much as you want, our resolve will only grow stronger…. Save democracy.” Jayant, a graduate from the London School of Economics, told journalists while leaving the village: “I was talking to reporters when the police suddenly started wielding batons. My supporters saved me, but many got injured in the process.” He accused the government of bullying the victim’s family. “I don’t demand anything except justice for the family. Unfortunately, the government wants narco tests on the victim’s family, which means it wants to target them.” At least two dozen villagers in Hathras suffered injuries as the police attacked them with sticks through the day to prevent people from gathering. Many of them had merely stepped out of their homes out of curiosity at the flurry of activity in the village. Samajwadi Party members who had also gone to meet the victim’s family were assaulted. Samajwadi president and former chief minister Akhilesh Yadav, who was not part of the team, said: “The government will not be able to suppress the movement as long as the guilty are not punished.” Awanish Awasthi, additional chief secretary, home, did not respond to a message from this newspaper asking the reason behind the frequent police beatings. Not that the police are wielding the lathi indiscriminately. “The police are offering chairs to Rajput goondas. Our lives are in danger,” said the brother of the Hathras victim on Sunday. He said upper caste Rajputs were camping in and around the village to harm the family. “They were helping the police lathicharge those demanding justice for us,” the brother added. A video clip showed a man wearing a tilak on his forehead threatening and shouting at unseen villagers. He accuses them of not having faith in the CBI or the SIT and adds: “Ek baar mulakaat kar, hum tujhe bharosa dilayenge (Meet us once, we will ensure you have faith.)”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-629
05-10-2020||India||Vaccine ‘rough’ goal: 250 million by July||The Centre hopes to immunise up to 250 million people across India with a vaccine against the coronavirus disease by July 2021, Union health minister Harsh Vardhan said on Sunday, announcing a “rough” estimated target and timeline. The minister said the health ministry was working with state governments to develop lists of “priority population groups” such as frontline healthcare workers in the government and private sectors. A top health researcher and member of a national task force on Covid-19 told The Telegraph that it would be “premature” to plan any rollout without knowledge about which vaccine will be available. “At this point, we’re looking at possible scenarios — scenario 1, scenario 2, scenario 3. But things could change,” the researcher said, requesting anonymity. The researcher added: “Manufacturers have different capacities; the mathematics changes depending on which candidate becomes available.” Multiple candidate Covid-19 vaccines are under various stages of clinical trials worldwide – including three candidates in India – to be assessed for safety and efficacy. It is unclear which of these India’s drug regulatory authority might approve. “Our government is working round the clock to ensure there is a fair and equitable distribution of vaccines once they are ready,” Vardhan said, interacting with citizens on a social media platform. “Just like everywhere else in the world, our government’s utmost priority is how to ensure vaccines for each and everybody in the country.” Vardhan said the ministry had asked the states to submit lists of priority population groups to receive the Covid-19 vaccine. These lists are expected to include doctors, nurses, paramedical staff, surveillance officers, sanitary staff and others involved in testing, tracing and treating patients. “We have placed a realistic target of end-October to complete this humungous exercise,” Vardhan said, adding that the Centre would also help build capacity in human resources, supervision, training and the infrastructure required to distribute the vaccine across the country. “Our rough estimate and target would be to receive and utilise 400 to 500 million doses covering approximately 20 crore to 25 crore people by July 2021,” the minister said. “All this is still under various stages of finalisation.” Vardhan said the government was monitoring immunity against Covid-19 which, health researchers said, would be available through antibody surveys that provide information if a person has been previously infected by the coronavirus. In routine viral infections, previous exposure to an infection generates an immune response that protects the person from future infections by the same virus. This principle might be taken into account to decide who among the general population gets the vaccine on priority, two top health researchers advising the government have told this newspaper. Antibody surveys carried out between July and September suggested that 17 to 29 per cent of the populations sampled in several large cities – Ahmedabad, Chennai, Delhi, Mumbai and Puducherry – had already been infected. Amid the growing epidemic, health experts say, the proportion of infected people would have risen to even higher levels by the time a vaccine becomes available. “If 30 to 40 per cent of people are already exposed, we can prioritise the vaccine for those without antibodies,” one researcher said. The Indian Council of Medical Research has already conducted two nationwide surveys showing a 10-fold increase in the prevalence of the infection over a 3-month period. Survey findings have indicated that over 92 million people had already been infected by August. “If the natural infection itself can do the job (providing immunity), a vaccine becomes superfluous,” Samiran Panda, head of the ICMR’s epidemiology division, had said last week. India is testing two home-grown candidate vaccines – one developed by the Hyderabad-based Bharat Biotech, the other by the Ahmedabad-based Zydus Cadila – and the Oxford University candidate. The results of their trials are expected later this year.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-629
05-10-2020||India||Forensic lab finds cuts that challenge UP official version||A forensic laboratory has confirmed that the Hathras victim had two deep vaginal injuries, a senior home department official said on Sunday, days after several administration officials had publicly played down the possibility of the girl having been raped. “The report from the Forensic Science Laboratory, Agra, came on Saturday evening, confirming two deep injuries in her vagina,” the official told The Telegraph on the condition of anonymity. “These injuries are not possible without internal invasion. The report is silent on rape but the injuries suggest she was sexually assaulted.” The official said the lab’s mandate was not to suggest whether there was rape but only to examine the girl’s organs for injuries. The state government has not yet made the report public. “The medical report from JN Medical College, Aligarh, where she was treated before being shifted to Delhi’s Safdarjung Hospital, had not mentioned this injury,” the home department official said. “The post-mortem report (from Safdarjung Hospital) only said that her spinal cord injury was the cause of death.” The victim had in a statement from her deathbed confirmed gang rape, police sources said. She had said she had escaped earlier attempts at sexual assault by Ravi— one of the four accused — but was overpowered by him and others this time, they added. Although the medical college’s report and the post-mortem had neither confirmed nor denied rape, vaginal injuries or the presence of semen, senior officials had tripped over themselves to downplay the possibility of rape. On Thursday, additional director-general of police Prashant Kumar had insisted that sperms had not been found in the victim’s vagina. Hathras district magistrate Praveen Kumar had said on Wednesday: “There were no injuries to the private parts of the victim.” The victim’s family, who believe the police tried to protect the accused, have alleged that the force refused to add the gang-rape charge to that of attempted murder for eight days before yielding to the pressure of public protests. If the gang-rape charge is dropped and the accused are convicted of murder, they would in all likelihood be sentenced to life imprisonment. But if the charge of gang rape is added to murder and brutality — the victim’s tongue was chopped off and her neck broken — the courts would be likelier to consider the crime “rarest of the rare” and hand out the death sentence, legal experts said. On Saturday, BJP hard-liner Vinay Katiyar had said there was no evidence that the girl had been gang-raped. “It’s wrong to say she was gang-raped. She died of spinal injuries,” Katiyar said. The home department official said: “I don’t know on what basis these officials and politicians claimed there was no rape. They could surely have waited the three days that the forensic lab took to examine the viscera and send the report.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-629
05-10-2020||India||TN politician picks fault with Hindi rail SMS ||A DMK parliamentarian and an NDA constituent on Sunday picked fault with a Hindi text message the railways sent to a passenger to confirm the ticket, portraying it as language “imposition”. However, Southern Railway clarified that a particular user had selected Hindi as the preferred language while registering with IRCTC, the authorised e-ticketing agency website.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-629
05-10-2020||India||LJP cites ideological differences with Nitish||The Lok Janshakti Party on Sunday announced it would contest the October-November Bihar polls alone, citing “ideological differences” with Nitish Kumar’s Janata Dal United, but pledged to support the BJP both before and after the election. The move aroused suspicion of a plot to eat into JDU votes to the BJP’s advantage. The LJP said it would field candidates against the JDU but not the BJP and that after the polls, its MLAs would help form a BJP-led government. Till late Sunday evening, the BJP had not responded to the LJP’s decision. “At the state level and in the Assembly polls, due to ideological differences with JDU in the alliance, the LJP has decided to contest the elections outside the NDA,” an LJP statement said. It did not explain what “ideological differences” had cropped up between the two parties. The LJP has in recent months been critical of Nitish’s performance, but without any reference to ideological issues. Sunday’s statement came after the LJP’s parliamentary board had met under the chairmanship of Chirag Paswan, who has taken over the party’s reins from his father, Dalit leader and Union minister Ram Vilas Paswan. “There is no bitterness between the LJP and the BJP. After the poll results, all elected MLAs of the LJP will be with the development path of respected Prime Minister Narendra Modi and form a BJP-LJP government,” the statement said, omitting to mention the JDU as a ruling coalition partner. It added that it had wanted the BJP and not Nitish to lead the alliance in Bihar. Asked whether the party, a minor regional outfit, could have dared take this step without the BJP’s backing, an LJP politician shot back: “Do you think it’s possible?” He said Chirag had written to Modi, Union home minister Amit Shah and BJP chief J.P. Nadda well in advance conveying his party’s intention not to accept Nitish’s leadership. Ram Vilas has had major heart surgery and is in hospital, away from the political scene. The LJP’s move suggests a well-scripted strategy to give the BJP the upper hand in Bihar, a state it has never been able to dominate because of Mandal politics and where it has had to play second fiddle to Nitish. Weeks ago, when the BJP had declared the NDA would contest the Bihar polls under Nitish’s leadership, it had seemed to be making a magnanimous gesture despite feedback from the ground suggesting simmering anti-incumbency against the chief minister. Modi too had lauded Nitish for his “sushashan” (good governance), seemingly endorsing his stature as the NDA’s leader in Bihar despite history between them. Nitish had dumped the NDA months before the 2014 general election after Modi was made its prime ministerial candidate, won the 2015 Bihar polls in alliance with the Congress-RJD, then made a dramatic about-turn in 2017 to return to the BJP fold. This not just eroded his credibility but made it more than likely that the BJP would try to extract revenge at an opportune time. After gladdening the JDU by endorsing Nitish’s leadership, the BJP began bargaining for an equal share of Bihar’s 243 seats. Sources said the seat shares had been worked out, with the BJP getting 121 and the JDU 122, although no official announcement has been made. JDU sources said it had been agreed that the BJP would accommodate the LJP from its share while the JDU would do the same favour to former chief minister Jitan Ram Manjhi’s Hindustan Awam Morcha. JDU managers thought they had played smart since the LJP would ask for more seats than Manjhi, and so their party would end up contesting more seats than the BJP. Now with the LJP deciding to contest alone, the BJP could be poised to contest more seats than the JDU. Boosted by a probable LJP bid to damage Nitish, the BJP could well end up with more seats than the JDU, weakening Nitish’s claim to the chief minister’s chair. Even if the BJP allows Nitish to remain in the hot seat in that scenario, his authority would have been seriously eroded. BJP managers anyway expect anti-incumbency to hurt Nitish more than their party. The BJP has therefore been deftly signalling to its loyal voters, the upper castes in particular, that the party is with Nitish and yet not with him. “Our voters may not vote wholeheartedly for the JDU candidates. This could lead to the BJP winning more seats,” a BJP politician said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-629
05-10-2020||India||Hathras judicial probe cry ||The Hathras victim’s family on Sunday stressed that they wanted a judicial probe headed or monitored by a sitting Supreme Court or high court judge, voicing fear that a police or CBI investigation might frame them in an “honour killing” case. The family had expressed the same preference on Saturday after chief minister Yogi Adityanath recommended a CBI probe, as demanded by supporters of the alleged rapist-cum-killers who claim the accused are innocent. “We don’t see much difference between the CBI and the police. The cases they have failed to solve or manipulated outnumber those they have actually cracked,” the brother of the 19-year-old Dalit victim said. “But we have complete faith in the judiciary and want a judicial inquiry, either headed by a sitting judge from the high court or the Supreme Court, or monitored by them.” He added: “The police and other investigators were trying to make it seem a case of honour killing. They grilled my father as though he was behind whatever happened to his daughter. We fear that a CBI probe will go in the same direction. “But the media are monitoring everything and I’m hopeful that the world is watching the developments closely.” Four Rajput youths are accused of gang-raping the victim, cutting off her tongue and breaking her neck on September 14. After she died in a Delhi hospital on September 29, the Uttar Pradesh police allegedly hijacked the body, brought it to her village, and burnt it after locking the family at their home. The victim’s father on Sunday said the forced cremation, facilitated by “petrol” rather than the traditional rituals, went “against Hindusim” and left room for doubt whether the body was indeed his daughter’s. The girl’s brother had on Saturday collected her ashes from the spot where the police burnt her on a pyre. The father said on Sunday that the ashes would not be immersed in the Ganga until a court had convicted and sentenced the accused. “We collected the ashes because the local administration was pressuring us. Sometimes we believe that these remains are of my daughter but at other times we doubt it,” he said. “We don’t know whom the police cremated. They claim it was my daughter. Those who had seen the cremation told us they didn’t see the face. The police had poured petrol on the pyre and burnt the body. We may be Dalits but we are Hindus too, and whatever the police and the state government did was against Hinduism.” More than 50 local Rajputs on Saturday protested outside the victim’s village, removing their shirts and demanding a CBI probe. “We want a CBI probe and narco-analysis tests on the girl’s family. Those arrested are innocent,” one of the protesters, Nishant Chauhan, told reporters. Several BJP leaders too have publicly claimed the accused are innocent, echoing an unofficial “panchayat” held on October 2 by Rajputs from 12 villages that demanded a CBI probe claiming it would exonerate the four youths. The meeting had also demanded a narco-analysis or “truth serum” test on the victim’s family members. Hours later the government of Adityanath, himself a Rajput, announced such tests on the complainants, accused and the policemen involved in the initial probe, apparently on the basis of a report from the special investigation team. “We are poor and downtrodden,” the victim’s brother said. “We haven’t got the courage to fight the Rajputs. But the way the media is fighting for justice gives us confidence that the guilty would be punished.” Bhim Army chief Chandrashekhar Azad met the victim’s family on Sunday afternoon and told reporters he wanted to take them away with him. “Supporters of the accused are holding panchayats every day within a radius of 2km. They can attack and harm the family anytime,” Azad said. “The government should either give them Y-category security or allow me to take them to my place (Saharanpur).” The victim’s father and aunt, who flanked Azad as he spoke, said they were willing to go with the Dalit leader as they were feeling “insecure”. “I wonder why the victim’s family cannot get security if the government can give security to (actress) Kangana Ranaut,” Azad said. The Union home ministry last month granted Kangana Y-plus security —10-12 armed CRPF men will guard her round the clock — after she said she felt insecure in Mumbai. Azad supported the family’s demand for a judicial probe, saying a “government tool” like the CBI couldn’t be trusted.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-630
05-10-2020||India||Modi govt is Adani-Ambani sarkar: Rahul||Rahul Gandhi on Sunday said Prime Minister Narendra Modi was a “puppet” in the hands of Adani-Ambani, reposing faith in his pet theme that the government was working to safeguard the interests of big companies despite the failure of such a campaign in the 2019 parliamentary elections. Addressing a farmers’ meeting in Punjab’s Moga along with top Congress leaders, including chief minister Amarinder Singh, Rahul said: “Why did the Modi government bring these three (farm) laws amidst Covid? It is about money and your land. The corporates have set their sights on your money and land. Modi wants to break your backbone and hand over agriculture to Adani and Ambani.” The Congress MP elaborated: “You must have seen puppet shows. Somebody pulls the strings from behind. Modi is a puppet. It is not Modi sarkar. It is Adani-Ambani sarkar. Modi is handled by Adani-Ambani. They give life to Modi. Modi works for them and they manage the media for Modi.” This is not the first time Rahul has made such allegations; he used to say in the run-up to the Lok Sabha polls that Modi works for a few corporate houses. The incumbent government, however, returned with a bigger mandate. Persisting with the same line of attack, the former Congress president said: “Agriculture trade rests on three pillars — the mandi system, procurement and MSP (minimum support price). As long as these pillars exist, Modi won’t be able to serve his mentors. So he intends to demolish them. He knows abolition of the mandi system and public procurement will destroy farmers. The Congress will not allow this. We will not yield an inch. I don’t say the mandi system doesn’t have deficiencies. But it needs reform, not destruction.” Arguing that farmers can’t be left to the mercy of corporate houses, Rahul said: “I give you a guarantee. The day the Congress comes to power at the Centre, we will throw these three laws into the dustbin. Modi says these laws will help farmers. If that is true, why are farmers protesting? I have seen Modi lie for six years. He said notebandi (demonetisation) would finish black money. Then he cheated small traders with the GST. He had tried to kill the Land Acquisition Act also. We fought and saved you. We will do it again.” Breaking the Covid-imposed shackles on public engagements, Rahul on Sunday addressed meetings and led a tractor rally in Punjab against the new farm laws, a day after stepping out of Delhi with around 5,000 party workers to meet the family of the Hathras gang-rape-and-murder victim. Although the Yogi Adityanath administration in Uttar Pradesh had allowed only five leaders to proceed to Hathras, no such restrictions were imposed in Congress-ruled Punjab as thousands participated in Rahul’s meetings and tractor rally. The Congress leader will continue his tractor rally on Monday but a confrontation is inevitable when he tries to enter Haryana as the BJP-ruled state has declared that Rahul won’t be allowed to violate Covid restrictions. Farmers are protesting in Haryana as well, and Rahul intends to return to Delhi on October 6 after taking part in several programmes in the state. The Congress has also decided to hold countrywide demonstrations on Monday over the Hathras tragedy. Party general secretary K.C. Venugopal announced: “In our continued effort to provide justice to the family of the Hathras victim, the Congress will hold a satyagrah in state capitals and district headquarters across the country on Monday morning. Senior leaders, MPs, MLAs, office-bearers, functionaries and workers will participate in the sit-ins.” The Congress general secretary in charge of Uttar Pradesh, Priyanka Gandhi Vadra, wondered why the Hathras district magistrate had not been removed yet. In a series of tweets, Priyanka said: “The worst behaviour with the family was of Hathras DM. Who is protecting him? He should be sacked immediately and his role investigated in the entire episode.” She also asked why petrol was used to burn the body of the victim.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-630
05-10-2020||India||Roll back fare hike, says Sikkim youth forum||The Sikkim Progressive Youth Forum (SPYF) has demanded a rollback of the recent hike in bus fares, more buses between major towns of Sikkim without increase in fares, and keeping the hike in fares for inter-state travel by taxis to a minimum. The SPYF, which espouses political and social issues, in a media release issued in Gangtok said at a time people were struggling amid the Covid-19 pandemic, steep hikes in public transport fares was like adding insult to injury. “By doing this, the burden of the pandemic has been put on the shoulders of common people. Covid-19 is a global pandemic, we all need to fight it together,” it said. Accusing the Sikkim government of doing little to lessen the burden of people, the SPYF reminded that it was the people who lost their jobs, sources of income and businesses. “On behalf of common people of the state, we request the government to immediately withdraw the recent fare hike,” the release said. The SPYF’s requests include starting of Sikkim Nationalised Transport (SNT) bus services between all important towns and bazaars of the state without raising the fare, limiting the hike in taxi fare to within 1.3 times of the old fare even for inter-state travel (say, Gangtok to Darjeeling or Kalimpong), economic relief package for drivers, one-time tax relaxation for non-private and non-government vehicles and six-month relaxation on payment of EMIs for car loans. The Sikkim transport department recently revised share taxi and bus fares in view of curbs on number of passengers on a vehicle because of Covid social distancing protocol. While the fares of multipurpose utility vehicles (MUVs) like Tata Sumo and buses have doubled, that of five-seater taxis has been increased by a third within Sikkim and doubled for inter-state trips. The SPYF also wondered about the fate of the Economic Revival Committee set up by the government in view of the pandemic-induced disruption to the state’s economy. “The much-touted Economic Revival Committee is yet to come out with measures to revive the economy. Despite several suggestions given by SPYF and many other organisations and individuals, the government has not paid any heed as a result of which the people belonging to the middle and lower middle class are finding it extremely difficult to eke out a living,” it alleged. The government announced resumption of tourism from October 10. Tourism is the backbone of Sikkim’s economy. Over 14 lakh domestic tourists and nearly 1.5 lakh foreign tourists visited Sikkim in 2019, which equals 2.5 times more than its population of nearly seven lakh.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-630
05-10-2020||India||Hathras echoes in Odisha Assembly||The alleged gang-rape of a 19-year old girl in Hathras in Uttar Pradesh and the subsequent death of the victim found an echo in the Odisha Assembly on Saturday. Condemning the incident and the alleged bid by the Uttar Pradesh police to cover up the matter by allegedly cremating the body of the victim in a hush manner, Congress MLAs stormed into the well of the House and raised slogans against the Uttar Pradesh chief minister, Yogi Adityanath and Prime Minister Narendra Modi. The Congress members pointed out how the girl was gagged, raped and then bludgeoned by a group of goons. She succumbed to the injuries sustained during the violence perpetrated against her by the goons. As soon as the House assembled for the day, senior Congress leader Narasingh Mishra raised the issue. He said: “Democracy has been butchered in Uttar Pradesh. All attempts are being made to deny justice to the girl. The way police was used to manhandle former AICC president, Rahul Gandhi and AICC general secretary Priyanka Gandhi is beyond imagination. Such things should not happen in a civilised society. The BJP government has murdered the democracy. An authoritarian rule prevails at the moment” Congress MLAs trooped into the well of the House and demanded the resignation of Yogi. Senior MLA Tara Prasad Bahinipati tried to climb onto the podium of the Assembly.  “How could police dare to touch Rahul Gandhi and Priyanka Gandhi when the two Congress leaders were on their way to meet the family members of the gang-rape victim. There is no democracy,” said Bahinipati. As the House witnessed pandemonium, it could not take up any business for the day in the morning session and the Speaker had to adjourn the House repeatedly. Later, the Speaker called an all-party meeting in his chamber to break the stalemate. But this failed to resolve the issue and the House had to be adjourned again. The BJD also reacted to the incident. “The attack on the Dalit woman is unfortunate. We condemn it. If the family members don’t get justice, we will hit the streets. The police are acting as puppets in the hands of Uttar Pradesh government,” said BJD woman MLA Shenangini Chhuria. Later in the afternoon, normalcy was restored in the House. However, the BJP maintained that Uttar Pradesh police did not manhandle Rahul. “He intentionally fell on the ground,” said BJP MLA Bishnu Charan Sethi.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-630
05-10-2020||India||Minister donates plasma||Union petroleum minister Dharmendra Pradhan  on Saturday donated plasma for the treatment of Covid-19  patients. Only  people who have been cured of the disease are eligible to donate plasma. Pradhan on Saturday visited the SCB Medical College, Cuttack and donated plasma. “If my plasma can help anyone, I will feel happy,” he said. Pradhan also appealed to the people cured of Covid-19 to come forward to donate plasma. Plasma therapy is being widely used for the treatment of Covid-19 patients.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-630
05-10-2020||India||Suicide as income dries up||A hawker on trains and his wife in Odisha have committed suicide after their income dried up because passenger trains are not running amid the pandemic and creditors had been breathing down their necks. The deaths of Kashinath Raula, 53, and his wife Kanaka, 45, in Balasore district have also brought to the fore how unscrupulous elements had infiltrated a successful and well-meaning government plan to promote financial self-reliance. Kashinath, who used to sell boiled grams and peas (ghughni) in trains between Balasore and Rupsa stations, and Kanaka died after consuming poison at their home in Pudadiha village on Saturday. The couple had taken loans totalling Rs 2.5 lakh from three women’s self-help groups to expand their house and the lenders had allegedly been mounting pressure on them to repay. Social activists and government officials said that several self-help groups were running illegal money-lending operations with the loans they take to set up small businesses. The government facilitates the grant of loans at subsidised rates to self-help groups so that they can run small businesses — from selling food items to rearing animals to running poultries — with the primary aim of fostering economic independence, especially among women. However, some groups had formed a nexus with private micro-finance companies to start a money-lending trade charging exorbitant interest rates. Sub-inspector Narahari Mahalik of Rupsa police station told this newspaper: “Kashinath used to hawk food items in trains. As passenger trains are not running because of the pandemic and the restrictions, he had become jobless. He had earlier taken loans totalling Rs 2.5 lakh to build two rooms at his house. Left with no money during the pandemic, he had borrowed some more to run the family. He had been unable to pay the monthly instalments and had been under constant pressure over loan repayment. He could not take the strain anymore and he and his wife consumed poison.” The officer said the accused members of the self-help groups would be called for questioning. “However, the investigation is going slow at the moment as most of our colleagues, including the inspector, are down with Covid,” Mahalik said. Neighbour Lambodar Jena said Kashinath used to earn Rs 600 to Rs 700 a day by selling ghughni on trains. “Last year, he had renovated his house and also added two rooms. He had taken loans for this. But when the lockdown was suddenly announced (on March 24), he came under severe financial stress. He had again borrowed money from the self-help groups to keep his family going. He had not been able to pay loan instalments for six months,” Jena said. Sources said that some members of the three women’s self-help groups had come only last week and threatened to evict Kashinath and his wife from the house if they failed to repay the loans. Jena said Kashinath had approached his two sons, a hawker and a labourer, for help but they could not do anything as they too had no income. Kashinath’s elder son Babula Raula said: “We are needy people. I am also a hawker on trains. I don’t have any income now and have a son and a daughter to look after. I had told father that I was helpless. My younger brother is also having a tough time. But we had never imagined that our parents would commit suicide.” Babula said he had lodged a police complaint against the three self-help groups. Social activist and Congress leader Sudarshan Das told The Telegraph: “There are many self-help groups working in the rural belt in Balasore district. Private micro-finance organisations are using self-help groups to extend loans to needy people at high interest rates. When the debtors fail to repay, all kinds of pressure tactics are used. I have already lodged a case. Now we are going to meet the victims’ family members.” A senior Odisha government official said many micro-finance groups in rural areas of Balasore, Bhadrak and some other parts of the state had spread their network with the help of self-help groups. The micro-finance outfits give money to these groups, which in turn lend cash to people and earn commission from repayment amounts. “Sometimes, the micro-finance organisations charge interest rates as high as 24 per cent. We have been educating people about taking loans from banks, which lend at 9 per cent interest. We will look into this particular case (in Balasore),” the officials said, requesting not to be identified. Sources said the Odisha finance department would inform the Reserve Bank of India about the activities of the micro-finance groups. Odisha has around 6 lakh self-help groups.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-630
05-10-2020||India||Fresh India-China talks on October 12||Top military commanders of India and China will hold a fresh round of talks on October 12 to address the border standoff that has festered for over five months, at a time both sides have continued to build military posts at 14,000ft and above in eastern Ladakh ahead of the punishing winter. The sixth round of talks between the two sides on September 21 had remained inconclusive.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-630
