06-10-2020||India||BJP says Nitish to be CM, even if it outperforms JD(U)||Ending days of intense speculation, the NDA on Tuesday announced its seat-sharing formula for Bihar assembly polls under which JD(U) will contest on 122 seats and BJP 121 out of a total of 243 seats.  BJP backed to the hilt Chief Minister Nitish Kumar as its leader in the state and rebuffed a rebellious Chirag Paswan, while acknowledging his LJP as an ally "at the Centre".  At a press conference which was attended by top leaders of the JD(U) headed by Kumar and the BJP, it was made clear that "only those who accept the chief ministers leadership will be deemed to be a part of the NDA in Bihar".  The two parties have settled for a formula wherein each constituent gets almost an equal number of seats and misgivings about the BJP changing its mind post-polls in the event of a better strike rate than the JD(U) were summarily dispelled.  "We have agreed to a formula under which the JD(U) has got 122 seats and the remaining 121 have gone to the BJP.  "The JD(U) will part with seven from its quota to accommodate HAM. The BJP will accommodate Vikassheel Insaan Party (VIP), the new entrant in the NDA, Kumar said.  In the outgoing assembly, RJD was the largest party with 73 MLAs followed by JD(U) 69, BJP (54), Congress (23), CPI-ML (3), LJP (2), Hindustani Awam Morcha (HAM) and AIMIM of Hyderabad MP Asaduddin Owaisi one each and Independent (5). A total of 12 seats are vacant.  Incidentally, HAM, led by former Chief Minister Jitan Ram Manjhi, had on the previous day made public the names of candidates for the seven seats it will fight.  Manjhi himself will be seeking re-election from Imamganj (reserved SC) seat in Gaya district.  VIP, floated a couple of years ago by former Bollywood set designer Mukesh Sahni, was with the opposition Grand Alliance till last week.  Sahni announced an abrupt exit in protest against "back- stabbing" by RJD, which helms the opposition coalition, and its de facto leader Tejashwi Yadav.  His entry into the NDA followed his visit to New Delhi over the weekend during which he is said to have been in talks with top leaders of the BJP.  The crowded press conference was held nearly two hours after a marathon meeting held at the Chief Ministers official residence which was attended by top leaders of the BJP, including its national general secretary in-charge for the state Bhupendra Yadav, election in-charge Devendra Fadnavis and state president Sanjay Jaiswal.  After the meeting was over, Jaiswal appeared at a media centre set up by the party at a city hotel to give a soundbite, less than a minute long, wherein he reaffirmed the NDAs full support to Nitish Kumar.  Notably, the saffron partys cryptic silence over the belligerence of LJP chief Chirag Paswan, who had been taking potshots at the JD(U) chief for quite some time and openly revolted against him a couple of days ago, is said to have raised suspicions in the JD(U) camp.  The BJP, on its part, is said to have grown uncomfortable with Paswans talk of helping formation of a government headed by the saffron party besides his insistence on using the name of Prime Minister Narendra Modi and slogans seeking to drive a wedge between BJP and JD(U).  The saffron party is also said to have been riled by a development earlier in the day when Rajendra Singh, a senior BJP leader from Bihar with deep roots in the Sangh Parivar, was inducted by Chirag into the LJP at New Delhi.  Expressing rejoice over the development, Chirag had announced that Singh will be fielded from Dinara constituency in Rohtas district, from where the JD(U) has fielded sitting MLA and minister Jai Kumar Singh.  Kumar, as well as Deputy Chief Minister Sushil Kumar Modi and Sanjay Jaiswal both of whom spoke on the BJPs behalf expressed their fondness for Union minister Ram Vilas Paswan who had founded the LJP, but sought to make light of his sons antics.  "Did Ram Vilas Paswan become a Rajya Sabha member without the JD(U)s support?" asked Kumar in response to a query about Chirags allegation that the Chief Ministers party never gave allies their due.  "I believe in doing my job. I wish to take forward the growth trajectory that began under my stewardship 15 years ago.....I do not have anything to say about inconsequential things which some people may utter to derive some pleasure", Kumar said dismissively, seeking to attach little importance to Chirags agenda of Bihar First Bihari First.  The 37-year-old LJP president has sought to pit his agenda against "saat nishchay" (seven resolves) programme of the Chief Minister.  Journalists present at the press conference also posed a question about whether the BJP will insist on having its own Chief Minister if it performed better than the JD(U) in the October-November polls.  Speculations in this regard have grown strong since the Lok Sabha polls of last year wherein both BJP and JD(U) contested 17 seats each and the former won all but the latter settled with all but one.  "Please be rest assured. Nitish Kumar will be our Chief Minister irrespective of which party gets how many seats", Sushil Kumar Modi said in reply to the question.  Asked whether the LJP would cease to be a part of the NDA following the developments in Bihar, Sushil Modi replied cryptically "as Sanjay Jaiswal has already said, LJP is our ally at the Centre".||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-627
06-10-2020||India||Health ministry releases SOPs for festive season ||With the festive season posing a major challenge during the Covid-19 pandemic, the Union Health Ministry has issued guidelines for large gatherings, including ensuring adequate area for events with a detailed site map and proper markings to maintain social distancing and not allowing touching of idols and holy books, to prevent the spread of infection. Festive events shall be permitted only outside the containment zones, while people residing in the restricted areas may be encouraged to observe all festivals inside their homes and not move out, according to the ministry. Releasing the 'Standard Operating Procedures', the ministry said that the period from October to December witnesses large gatherings for religious worship, fairs, cultural functions, processions, etc, and it is important that necessary preventive measures are followed for such events which may last a day, a week or more. As far as feasible recorded devotional music/songs may be played and choir or singing groups should not be allowed, the SOPs stated. Keeping in view the physical distancing norms, event sites should have adequate floor area and proper markings at all locations which are likely to be visited by the public, the SOPs said underlining that only those staff and visitors who are free of symptoms shall be allowed inside the venue. All staff and visitors will be allowed entry only if they are using face cover/masks, which have to be worn by all at all times and physical distance of a minimum of six feet, when queuing up for entry and inside the venue, as far as feasible has to be followed. Specific markings for the purpose may be done. "In case of events that run for days or weeks, the crowd density doesn't remain the same throughout and usually peaks around certain hours of the day and some previously known auspicious days. "Planning for the event should specifically factor this so that crowds are regulated and managed to ensure physical distance and frequent sanitization," the SOPs said. In the case of rallies and immersion processions, the number of people should not exceed the prescribed limit and proper physical distancing and wearing of masks must be ensured. Events such as rallies, and processions spread over long distances may require the support of ambulance services, it underscored. The competent authority may implement additional measures within their jurisdiction as per their local assessment and in line with activities permitted by the Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) as per its orders issued under the Disaster Management Act, 2005 from time to time. Disinfection of premises has to be undertaken if any person is found positive. "Identify spatial boundaries and prepare a detailed site plan which would facilitate compliance with thermal screening, physical distancing, sanitization etc," it said. Close-circuit cameras etc. may be considered to monitor compliance of physical distance norms, wearing of masks at each venue. In the case of rallies and processions, route planning, identification of immersion sites, ensuring cap on numbers, physical distancing, etc. must be planned and measures for enforcement outlined. All events must plan for medical care arrangements with linkages to the nearest hospitals to attend to health emergencies, the guidelines stated. The guidelines issued for theatre and cinema artists will apply to stage performers. According to the SOPs, the event sites should have a designated isolation room or space for isolating any person found symptomatic during the events, till such time that medical help is available. Preferably multiple and separate entry and exit points for visitors shall be ensured, the ministry said adding the structure or venue for the event must also have adequate natural cross-ventilation and entrances should have mandatory hand hygiene and thermal screening provisions. Proper crowd management inside and outside premises like parking lots, waiting areas, stalls, eateries, etc. duly following physical distancing norms shall be ensured. For entry into religious places, footwear needs to be preferably taken off by the people inside their own vehicle. If needed they should be kept in separate slots for each individual or family by the persons themselves, the guidelines said. The SOPs outlined that seating arrangement in pandaals, food courts and shows must ensure adequate physical distancing. Any shops, stalls or cafeteria outside and within the premises too shall follow physical distancing norms at all times and there should be arrangements for safe drinking water. Community kitchen managers and business owners of food outlets have been directed to ensure adherence to the highest level of personal and environmental hygiene all the time. Persons above 65 years of age, persons with comorbidities, pregnant women and children below the age of 10 years are advised to stay at home. This applies to the event managers and staff as well, the guidelines said. Effective and frequent sanitation within the premises shall be maintained with particular focus on commonly touched surfaces and areas including lavatories, drinking and handwashing stations/areas. Cleaning and regular disinfection (using 1% sodium hypochlorite) of frequently touched surfaces (doorknobs, elevator buttons, handrails, barricades, seats, benches, washroom fixtures, etc.) should be made mandatory in all public utility common areas, the SOPs stated. On Tuesday, the Health Ministry put the caseload in India at 66,85,082. The total recoveries surpassed 56 lakh improving the recovery rate to 84.70 per cent.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-627
06-10-2020||India||Cinemas may be opening, but no new movies as of now  ||The government has given the green signal for cinemas to reopen in a new Covid-19 normal defined by rigorous dos and don'ts and theatre owners are getting ready too, but it may be a while before audiences get to see a new movie. On Tuesday, Information and Broadcasting Minister Prakash Javadekar announced the standard operating procedures (SOPs) that cinema halls must put in place before they open on October 15 after seven months of being closed. The SOPs include one seat distance in theatres, 50 per cent capacity, masks at all time, proper ventilation and air conditioner temperature settings at above 23 degrees Celsius. “Cinema halls have been shut for the last seven months. They are now opening from October 15. For the safety of people, we have come out with SOPs to be followed,” Javadekar told reporters. It is good news for multiplex and theatre owners who have long maintained that it was time for the curtains to go up and also for movie aficionados missing their big screen experience. But the wariness persisted. Was it safe? How many people would actually brave the threat of Covid-19? What about the cost factor involved in getting theatres ready for the corona era? Given the extreme caution, there is unlikely to be any fresh content in the next few months, industry insiders indicated. No one wants to take a chance. Sibashish Sarkar, Reliance Entertainment Group CEO, said reopening of cinemas is a positive sign for the industry but screening new releases will be difficult. "We are not releasing any film on Diwali (on November 14). It is not possible to release a film on Diwali now. As of now, all cinema houses are not opening from October 15. Even if it opens on November 1, how can you release a film in a 10 or 15-day notice period? he asked. Films such as Akshay Kumar and Katrina Kaif-starrer Sooryavanshi and Ranveer Singh's 83 that are complete and ready for release won't be seen on the big screen anytime soon. While many films moved to OTT platforms during the lockdown that started in March, the much awaited Sooryavanshi  and 83 did not. Sooryavanshi , which was scheduled to release on March 24, just a day before the lockdown came into effect, was supposed to hit the screens on Diwali. "We are not sure whether we will change both Sooryavanshi or 83' or we will just shift one film... It is clear... from December to March is the realistic timeline, Sarkar told PTI. In fact, some cinemas will screen old content even when they open. Raj Bansal, a multiplex owner from Jaipur, said the distribution and exhibition sector has been waiting since August for theatres to open but his own theatre will stick to old fare. "We have 15 days to plan things. We have software for a few Dhoom series, Golmaal, Munnabhai..., Hera Pheri and some small films that are ready to be released in theatres," Bansal told PTI.  He said the cost of operating cinemas will go up by at least 10 per cent as the premises will need to be sanitised regularly. Cinepolis India CEO Devang Sampat is clear that cinema halls can't get back to regular business unless there is fresh content. He said they have implemented stringent safety protocols in line with global best practices and are ready to welcome patrons back to a safe and secure, world class movie experience. “We request the state governments to provide clearance for cinemas to open in their respective states,” he added. T-Series president Vinod Bhanushali added that it is exciting to have cinemas make a comeback after months of uncertainty. In Maharashtra and Tamil Nadu, theatres might open by November or pre-Diwali and the company is getting films ready for a theatrical release. The company has films such as Indoo Ki Jawani and the yet untitled biopic on badminton ace Saina Nehwal. “We will be happy if our films that are to be released on OTT will come in theatres. However, this decision is between OTT and exhibitors and distributors,” Bhanushali told PTI. "We believe stars or superstars are made or born in theatres. The fun of watching films is on the large screen," he added. Producer Boney Kapoor said it will take a couple of weeks for the audience to get used to coming to theatres. "Footfall will increase gradually. Hopefully by Diwali, we should have a better understanding or how good the situation is. We will think of the release once we complete the shoot of our films," Kapoor said. Film exhibitor Akshay Rathi, who has cinema houses in Chhattisgarh, Maharashtra and Madhya Pradesh, said the audience will want a safe and secure environment and all SOPs would be implemented. “We will ensure the best of movies are released in theatres for audiences to come in big numbers. For this producers, exhibitors and distributors will have to work together to rebuild the movie-going habit," Rathi said. Theatres across the country had to shut their doors in March due to the coronavirus-led lockdown. As the government started easing other businesses, theatre chains said they should be allowed to resume services as they were already facing losses to the tune of Rs 9,000 crore. “We are committed to ensure a safe, secure and a hygienic cinema going experience for the movie lovers of our country. As always, we would continue to assign topmost priority to the health and well-being of our guests and employees,” said PVR Cinemas CEO Gautam Dutta. INOX Leisure CEO Alok Tandon is also hopeful of a turnaround in the industry. “We are completely geared up and prepared for the new normal, which would assign topmost priority to safety and hygiene,” Tandon said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-627
06-10-2020||India||Cinema halls to reopen with 50 per cent capacity||After seven months of shut down due to Covid-19, cinema halls will reopen on October 15 with 50 per cent capacity and one-seat distance between the viewers, Information and Broadcasting Minister Prakash Javadekar said Tuesday. "Cinema halls are shut for last seven months. They are now opening from October 15. For safety of people, we have come out with SOP to be followed," Javadekar said. "Cinema halls shall be allowed to open with 50 per cent capacity only and people will maintain one-seat distance. Alternate seats will be left vacant for social distancing. Wearing masks at all times inside the hall will be important," he added. Briefing the press at his residence, the Union minister also said that online booking of tickets will be encouraged but box office will be open for single-screen theatres. "In single-screen theatres, ticket counters will be opened. However, we encourage online booking for contact-less transactions. Proper ventilation has to be ensured and temperature setting of all air conditioning should be above 23 degree Celsius," he said. The minister, releasing the SOP, said sufficient time interval between successive screenings on a single screen as well as on various screens in a multiplex should be provided to ensure row-wise staggered entry and exit of the audience. "The show commencement time, intermission period and finish time of a show at any screen shall not overlap with the commencement time, intermission period or finish time of a show at any other screen in a multiplex," the ministry said in its SOP. The SOP document said only packaged food and beverages will be allowed and online payments will be encouraged at food and beverage counters. Delivery of food inside the cinema halls will be prohibited. The Ministry of Home Affairs had in its unlock guidelines issued on September 30 allowed reopening of cinema halls from October 15. According to the SOP, seats to be left vacant will be marked "not to be occupied" and physical distancing of at least six feet will have to be followed outside the auditoriums. The SOP advised use of Aarogya Setu mobile application. "Given the current Covid-19 outbreak in India, it is important that various stakeholders involved in the activities of exhibition of films take suitable measures to restrict transmission of the virus while conducting their operations and activities," it said. It said thermal screening of visitors and staff will have to be carried out at entry points and only asymptomatic individuals should be allowed to enter the premises. "Provisions for hand sanitization should be made available at all entry points and in work areas. Designated queue markers shall be made available for entry and exit of the audience from the auditorium and the premises," it said. "Efforts shall be made to avoid overcrowding in the common areas, lobbies and washrooms during the intermission. Audience may be encouraged to avoid movement during the intermission. Longer intermissions may be used to allow audience seated in different rows of the auditorium to move in a staggered manner," it said. The auditoriums will be sanitised after every screening and cross ventilation has to be ensured.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-628
06-10-2020||India||SC asks to be notified about steps taken by UP govt to protect witnesses||Terming the Hathras incident as "horrible", the Supreme Court on Tuesday directed the Uttar Pradesh government to inform it by October 8 about the steps taken to protect witnesses in the case in which a Dalit girl was allegedly brutally raped and died due to injuries. The apex court directed the Yogi Adityanath government to file an affidavit in this regard and also ascertain whether the victim's family has chosen a lawyer. The apex court observation came while hearing a PIL during which the state government expressed willingness to refer the investigation to the CBI on the ground that fake narratives were being spread about the case with political motives. A bench comprising Chief Justice S A Bobde and Justices A S Bopanna and V Ramasubramanian said it will ensure that the investigation is smooth in the case. The top court also asked all parties appearing before it to give suggestions on the scope of proceedings before the Allahabad high court and how the apex court can make it more relevant. Solicitor General Tushar Mehta, appearing for the UP government, said, Narratives after narratives being spread in Hathras case, this this needs to be stopped." The CBI probe in Hathras case will ensure no vested interests will be able to create fake, false narrative with oblique motives, Mehta told the court. The state government told the top court that probe in Hathras case may be conducted by the CBI under the apex court's supervision. Mehta said the state government is not opposing the plea for a fair probe by the CBI or a Special Investigation Team and said a young innocent girl has lost her life, but nobody should sensationalise it. Investigation should be fair, appear fair. Senior Advocate Indira Jaising, appearing for few intervenors, asked the top court to provide protection to the victim's family. Jaising said the family has expressed that they are not satisfied with the CBI taking up the case and said an SIT, monitored by the apex court, should probe the case. At this point, the bench asked Jaising what her locus standi was in the case. You don't have any locus in this matter. But we are hearing you because the case is such and of huge importance. We are hearing your because this a shocking incident, but we are still pondering over your locus in this case," said the bench. Advocate Kirti Singh, appearing for few woman lawyers, said the probe should be under the supervision of the court. The apex court said this is a horrible incident but it does not want repetitive arguments in court. It is horrible incident but the question is how many similar arguments should we hear? Please understand that there is no need to duplicate concerns in the court of law," the bench said. Court of law need not hear the same argument by every party. This is not a comment on the incident but please understand our point of view, it added. The Uttar Pradesh government earlier in the day sought a CBI probe into the alleged gang-rape and death of the Dalit woman, saying it will ensure that no vested interest is able to create a fake and false narrative with "oblique motives". In an affidavit filed in response to a PIL, which has been listed for hearing before a bench headed by Chief Justice S A Bobde, the UP government said it is important that the investigation is carried out by an independent central agency. It said the state has already requested the Centre that the CBI take over the investigation as it would obviate hindrance being created by certain vested interests in the fair and impartial investigation. The CBI probe will also ensure that no vested interests will be able to create a fake and false narrative with oblique motives, it said. Quoting FSL reports, it has however denied the charge that rape was committed. The government said that it itself prays to the top court to keep PIL filed by social activist Satyama Dubey pending allowing the investigation by CBI to be conducted under the supervision of this court in a time bound manner. The 19-year-old Dalit woman was allegedly raped by four upper-caste men in Hathras on September 14. She died on September 29 at Delhi''s Safdarjung Hospital during treatment. The victim was cremated in the dead of the night near her home on September 30. Her family alleged they were forced by the local police to hurriedly conduct her last rites. Local police officers, however, said the cremation was carried out "as per the wishes of the family".||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-628
06-10-2020||India||Tapasee, Anushka in India's 'most dangerous celebrity' list ||Bollywood actresses Tabu, Taapsee Pannu, Anushka Sharma and Sonakshi Sinha are among the top 10 personalities generating the riskiest search results online in India, due to the malicious sites and viruses linked to their names, according to a list released by a cybersecurity company on Tuesday. But it was global football sensation Cristiano Ronaldo who claimed the number one spot on McAfee's Most Dangerous Celebrity list 2020. On number two is Tabu, who recently starred in Mira Nair's series adaptation of "A Suitable Boy", followed by "Thappad" actor Pannu at three, actor-producer Sharma at four, and Sinha at five. The second half of the list is also ruled by the entertainment industry, with singer Armaan Malik in the sixth place, actor Sara Ali Khan coming seventh, soap star Divyanka Tripathi in eighth spot, Bollywood superstar Shah Rukh Khan in the ninth place and playback singer Arijit Singh in the tenth position. With only Ronaldo representing sports, the 14th edition of the McAfee's Most Dangerous Celebrity list 2020 is dominated by the names from showbiz. Venkat Krishnapur, vice president of Engineering and managing director, McAfee India, said as consumers scout the web for free entertainment now more than ever, cybercriminals trail close behind, capitalising on this interest. "Unsuspecting users often look for free and pirated content such as major sports events, movies, TV shows, along with images and leaked videos of their favourite celebs. Bad actors (cybercriminals) leverage consumers' fascination with pop culture and drive unsuspecting fans to malicious websites that install malware on their devices, potentially putting personal information at risk," Krishnapur said in a statement. "When consumers compromise on security in favour of convenience and freebies, they put their digital lives at risk. It is vital that fans stay vigilant, avoid suspicious links that promise free content and think twice before clicking," he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-628
06-10-2020||India||Hathras: UN expresses profound sadness and concern||The United Nations has expressed profound sadness and concern at the continuing cases of sexual violence against women and girls in India, prompting the external affairs ministry to overlook certain complimentary references and describe the statement as “unwarranted”. “The recent cases of alleged rape and murder in Hathras and Balarampur are another reminder that despite the impressive progress made on a number of social indicators, women and girls from disadvantaged social groups face additional vulnerabilities and are at greater risk of gender-based violence,” UN resident coordinator Renata Dessallien said in a statement. “The UN in India is profoundly saddened and concerned at the continuing cases of sexual violence against women and girls in India,” the statement added. Resident coordinators are usually the highest UN official and the chief of the world body’s diplomatic mission in a country. The statement was issued on a day Uttar Pradesh police lodged at least 19 FIRs across the state against unknown persons on charges ranging from attempt to provoke caste conflict to sedition. Rights-based concern was expressed from another quarter, too, with India’s record again catching the attention of the European Parliament. Maria Arena, the Chair of the European Parliament’s Subcommittee on Human Rights, listed a litany of areas of concern in India with a reminder: “It is high time for India to translate words into action.” Dessallien, the UN resident coordinator, was appreciative of the steps taken by the government for the safety of women and acknowledged the “Prime Minister’s call for strict action against the culprits”. The Prime Minister is yet to make any public statement on the Hathras atrocity but Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath had claimed that Narendra Modi had asked him to take strict action. The UN official added that it was essential that the authorities ensured the perpetrators were brought to justice speedily, and that families were empowered to seek timely justice, social support, counselling, health care and rehabilitation. “Entrenched social norms and behaviour of men and boys that lead to gender-based violence must be addressed,” Dessallien said. The Indian government did not take it well. Reacting to her statement late in the night, external affairs ministry spokesperson Anurag Srivastava said: “Some unwarranted comments have been made by the UN resident coordinator regarding some recent cases of violence against women. “The UN resident coordinator in India should be aware that these cases have been taken extremely seriously by the government. Since the investigation process is still underway, any unnecessary comments by an external agency are best avoided. The Constitution guarantees equality to all citizens of India. As a democracy we have a time-tested record of providing justice to all sections of our society.” The UN official’s statement was issued in spite of the Uttar Pradesh government using the services of a public relations firm to offer its spin among foreign and Indian media after the Hathras incident. The salvo from Europe was more direct and comprehensive. In a statement on Monday, Arena, the Chair of the European Parliament’s human rights panel, reminded India that as a sitting member of the UN Human Rights Council, the country had pledged to “continue to foster the genuine participation and effective involvement of civil society in the promotion and protection of human rights”. “Therefore, I call on the Indian government to meet this pledge, in a manner worthy of the global role model it aspires to be. It is high time for India to translate words into action. In this context, I also wish to call on the EU to address these concerns within the EU-India Human Rights Dialogue.” Pointing out that the rule of law is the very cornerstone of the EU’s relationship with India, Arena referred to the Amnesty International India report on human rights violations committed by Delhi police during the riots in the capital in February. She supported the call for a “prompt, thorough, independent and impartial investigation” into all such violations committed by law-enforcement agencies. “Marginalised communities, religious minorities, particularly Muslims, a vocal and vibrant civil society and critics of government policies have been under increasing pressure for a long time. Widespread protests over the proposed citizenship verification process and the discriminatory citizenship law amendments have resulted in arbitrary detentions and an unnecessary loss of life. Journalists and other peaceful critics continue to be arrested under draconian counter-terrorism and sedition laws, while human rights defenders are unceasingly and severely targeted by the authorities,” Arena noted. She also expressed concern over Amnesty International India being forced to halt its work in the country “due to government reprisals”. The European Union has already raised the Amnesty International India closure with the external affairs ministry through its mission in New Delhi. In a background note circulated along with the statement, it was pointed out that the 2004 EU-India Strategic Partnership is based on shared values of democracy, the rule of law and respect for human rights. Further, it was pointed out that both countries had endorsed the “EU-India Strategic Partnership: A Roadmap to 2025” during the 5th European Union-India Summit on July 15, reaffirming commitment to promoting the shared values of human rights and fundamental freedoms. Earlier in January, six different political groupings in the European Parliament had moved separate resolutions against the Citizenship Amendment Act. Together, the resolutions had the backing of 626 members of the 751-member European Parliament. Indian diplomats had to work overtime to defer the vote to March, by which time the pandemic bailed India out of the tight spot.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-628
06-10-2020||India||IITs halve cut-offs for BTech admission||The cut-off marks qualifying students for BTech admission in the IITs this year are half the figures prescribed in the brochure, marking a new low that some academics said could be the combined outcome of difficult questions, the pandemic and increased seats. Some 43,204 candidates have cracked the JEE Advanced exam, taken by 150,838 students in September. Last year, 1.61 lakh candidates had sat the exam. Of the successful candidates, 17,823 are in the Common Rank List (general category); 9,195 have qualified for the 27 per cent OBC quota; 5,087 for the 10 per cent Economically Weaker Sections quota; 7,852 for the 15 per cent Scheduled Caste quota and 2,811 for the 7.5 per cent Scheduled Tribe quota. Apart from these candidates, there are the successful differently abled students. Every year, the IITs prescribe an aggregate cut-off of 35 per cent for the general category, followed by 31.5 per cent for the OBC and EWS students, and 17.5 per cent for the SC and ST students. Most years, the cut-offs are eventually lowered to try and fill seats. Besides, the general candidates need to obtain at least 10 per cent marks in each individual paper — mathematics, physics and chemistry. This cut-off is nine per cent for the OBCs and EWS and five per cent for the SCs and STs. The subject cut-off is rarely, if ever, lowered. But this year, both cut-offs have been halved, with several IIT professors saying they could remember no precedent. The IITs have reduced the aggregate cut-off for the general category to 17.5 per cent, compared to 25 per cent in the last two years, and the subject cut-off — not reduced in at least the last four years — to 5 per cent. (See chart) The aggregate cut-off for the OBC and EWS students is 15.75 per cent, far lower than the last two years’ 22.5 per cent. For the SCs and STs, the aggregate cut-off is 8.75 per cent, against the last two years’ 12.5 per cent. The subject cut-offs for these categories too have been halved. “The aggregate cut-off is usually lowered to ensure seats are not left vacant. But I don’t remember the subject cut-off being ever reduced,” former IIT-JEE chairman H.C. Gupta said. The JEE Advanced website does not give full details of the cut-offs adopted for the 2015 exam. Another former JEE chairman said the aggregate mark was certainly lowered in 2015 but he was not sure whether the subject cut-off had been lowered that year. “There were fewer examinees this year, perhaps because of the fear of Covid. When there are fewer students, the cut-off may fall,” an IIT Madras teacher said. The JEE Advanced chairman for this year, Sidharth Pandey from IIT Delhi, said that about 3,000 seats had been increased to accommodate the EWS quota and the 20 per cent supernumerary seats for women students. He said the questions too had been tougher than usual. “The question papers were difficult; the number of seats rose from about 13,000 to 16,053. Government policy requires us to select twice the number of required candidates in every category so that no seat remains vacant. To select the required number of candidates, the cut-off had to be lowered,” Pandey said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-628
06-10-2020||India||Covid count below 1m, but caution sounded||India’s counts of active coronavirus patients have remained below 1 million for 14 days amid a decline in daily new cases since mid-September, but experts say any laxity in precautions could trigger fresh surges in the coming weeks. The Union health ministry on Monday described the “two straight weeks” with active patients’ counts below 1 million as a “landmark milestone” and pointed to the downward trend in active cases that have fallen from 1,010,824 on September 20 to 934,427 on October 4. Medical experts tracking the epidemic say the overall national decline in new cases is encouraging and is a likely outcome of the decrease observed over the past two weeks in some states that made up large proportions of the daily new cases. In Maharashtra, the state with the largest counts, for instance, the seven-day average daily count has declined from around 21,000 to 14,000 over the past two weeks. In Uttar Pradesh, the average daily count has reduced from 6,000 to 4,000. But the reductions aren’t uniform across India. The daily counts show only modest reductions in some states such as Karnataka (9,700 to 9,200 over the past 14 days) and Tamil Nadu (5,605 to 5,598). In three states, the seven-day average daily counts have increased — in Kerala, from 3,920 to 7,786, in Manipur from 146 to 222, and in Rajasthan from 1,797 to 2,167 — over the past two weeks. The numbers of samples tested daily have ranged over the past 14 days from a low of 7.09 lakh to a high of 14.92 lakh, and health officials have said the decline in numbers has occurred despite steady testing levels. Experts say there is no evidence yet to suggest that the two-week fall in the daily new infections is the outcome of fewer tests. “Any gross missed cases through laxity in testing would have consequences — the infection would spread and we would see surges and an increase in demand for hospital care,” said Oommen John, a physician and senior research fellow at The George Institute for Global Health, New Delhi. But epidemiologists are concerned that any let-up in the adoption of precautions such as wearing masks or avoiding crowds could push the numbers upwards again. A national sero-survey has suggested that hundreds of millions of people across the country — in urban and rural areas — have not yet been infected by the virus and are thus susceptible to the infection. The health ministry on Monday recorded 75,442 new cases, raising the country’s total number of lab-confirmed Covid-19 infections to over 6.62 million, of whom over 5.58 million have recovered and 102,685 patients have died.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-628
06-10-2020||India||If it is CBI, it must be poll time||The CBI on Monday searched multiple premises owned by or linked to Karnataka Congress president D.K. Shivakumar in Karnataka, Delhi and Maharashtra in connection with a disproportionate assets case. The raids, which continued for 12 hours from 6am, triggered protests by the Congress and allegations of witch-hunt. After the searches ended, Shivakumar, the Congress’s chief trouble-shooter in Karnataka who has faced raids by multiple central agencies, urged supporters gathered outside his home to give a befitting reply in impending bypolls. Raids were conducted at Shivakumar’s Bangalore home and 14 other properties — nine in Karnataka, four in Delhi and one in Mumbai. The premises searched included the Delhi apartment of Shivakumar’s younger brother and Lok Sabha member D.K. Suresh and their family home in Ramanagara, near Bangalore, where the leaders’ mother, Gowramma, lives. The CBI, believed to be acting on inputs provided by the Enforcement Directorate in the money-laundering case, had on Sunday procured a warrant from the agency’s special court in Bangalore to search the premises, including Shivakumar’s home in Sadashivanagar. Some 60 CBI officers were part of the operation. After coming to power in the state last year by toppling the JDS-Congress government, the BJP dispensation had ordered an investigation into allegations that Shivakumar owned assets disproportionate to his known sources of income. He had spent a month in Tihar jail during September-October 2019 in connection with the money-laundering case. The income tax department had claimed it had unearthed “unaccounted money” to the tune of Rs 11 crore during raids on the leader’s properties in 2017. Shivakumar was neither allowed to leave his home nor consult anyone after the CBI sleuths knocked on his door. After the raids, Shivakumar told a large crowd outside his home: “Let God do good to those who are trying to harm me and my family. But let me assure you all that neither me nor my family has done anything to bring a bad name to our party.” He urged his supporters to respond appropriately in the bypolls. Five days ago, the Election Commission had announced that bypolls to the Sira and RR Nagar Assembly constituencies would be held on November 3. Congress MLAs who defected last year to help the BJP form the government represent the two seats. State Congress legal cell chief A.S. Ponnanna said the CBI officers refused to furnish any information when Shivakumar asked them. “We have no information about the reason for this action,” Ponnanna said. “The high court had asked them not to precipitate matters when we objected to the state government’s permission (to prosecute Shivakumar). What is the meaning of saying ‘do not take coercive action’?” he asked. In an interim order on Shivakumar’s plea, Karnataka High Court had on September 28 said “there shall be no coercive action against the petitioner”. After the raid on Shivakumar’s family home in Ramanagara, his mother Gowramma told reporters that “neither did they ask me anything, nor did I ask them anything”. The Congress accused Prime Minister Narendra Modi and chief minister B.S. Yediyurappa of “witch-hunt” to rattle the Opposition party ahead of the bypolls.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-628
06-10-2020||India||Four on way to Hathras arrested||Four people were arrested in Mathura on Monday while they were on their way to Hathras from Delhi, police said. The police claimed they were associated with the Popular Front of India (PFI) and an allied outfit. Uttar Pradesh police had earlier sought a ban on the PFI. The four, who were in a car, identified themselves as Atiq-ur Rehman of Muzaffarnagar, Siddique of Malappuram, Masood Ahmed of Bahraich and Alam of Rampur, the police said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-628
06-10-2020||India||FIR against minister for Covid rule violation ||An FIR has been filed against school and mass education minister Samir Ranjan Dash for violating the Covid guidelines while attending the funeral ceremony of former minister and seven time MLA Pradeep Maharathy who passed away on Sunday. A similar complaint has also been lodged against the Satyabadi MLA Uma Samantray. Both Dash and Samantray hail from Puri district to which Maharathy belonged. Convener of Shree Jagannath Sena Priyadarshan Patnaik said: “We have lodged complaints against them with the police at Sea Beach police station. The government has issued guidelines for attending funerals. However, the minister set a wrong precedent by violating the guidelines in this regard while attending the funeral ceremony of Maharathy at Swargadwar in Puri on Sunday.” Patnaik said not only the minister attended the funeral ceremony along with hundreds of his supporters MLA Uma Samantray also joined the funeral procession. “What is most unfortunate is that both of them were tested Covid positive a few days back. They put thousands of people in danger by joining the funeral ceremony at Swargadwar in Puri. They should show their Covid negative report to us. They are the super spreaders,” said Patnaik, adding that police should immediately arrest the two leaders. Earlier, some BJP leaders in the social media had hinted about violation of Covid-19 guidelines during the funeral procession. Minister Samir Ranjan Dash said: “I was tested positive on September 14 and was admitted into the hospital and released within a week. Since then I have been in home isolation. I have not violated any norms. I had gone to the cremation alone. I don’t know about the other people who were there.” The MLA Samantray could not be contacted for his comments. The Odisha Assembly on Wednesday had passed the Epidemic Diseases (Amendment) Bill 2020. The bill envisages a fine up to Rs 1 lakh and imprisonment up to two year or both for anyone violating the Covid guidelines. According to the guidelines, a maximum number of 20 people can attend funerals. At least two metre physical distance should be maintained between people on such occasions and people should wear masks and carry sanitisers with them. However, during the funeral procession on Sunday, hundreds of people thronged the cremation ground to have a last darshan of Maharathy, who had established himself as a mass leader of Puri district.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-628
06-10-2020||India||Murder charge against Lalu’s sons||Politics in poll-bound Bihar went on the boil on Monday after murder charges were slapped against six Rashtriya Janata Dal leaders, including party chief Lalu Prasad’s sons Tejashwi Prasad Yadav and Tej Pratap Yadav and Anil Kumar Sadhu, in the killing of a former Dalit leader of the RJD in Purnea. Shakti Malik, a former secretary of the SC (Scheduled Castes)/ST (Scheduled Tribes) cell of the RJD, was killed on Sunday morning at his home in Purnea, 320km northeast of the state capital Patna. The RJD cried foul and said that the case had been registered at the behest of the ruling powers in the state, and that the party would not be cowed down. Shakti was planning to contest from Raniganj (SC) Assembly constituency in Araria district, and had recently released a video alleging that Tejashwi and Anil had demanded a donation of Rs 50 lakh to provide him a party ticket to contest the polls, which he refused. Tejashwi is the Opposition leader and will lead the Grand Alliance in the three-phase elections in the state from October 28 to November 7. Anil is a son-in-law of Union minister Ram Vilas Paswan, but quit the Lok Janshakti Party a few years ago. In the footage that is circulating on social media platforms, Shakti also accused Tejashwi of hurling abuses on caste and threatening to ensure that he will never become an MLA. The Telegraph could not verify the authenticity of the video. It is also unclear whether Shakti left the RJD himself, or was removed from the party. The FIR was registered at Khazanchi Hat police station in Purnea on the statement of Shakti’s wife Khushboo Devi. Purnea superintendent of police Vishal Sharma said investigations were being conducted on different aspects in the case with CCTV footage and technical evidence being accessed. Police sources also said that a call from a landline number at former chief minister Rabri Devi’s house is among the things that are being probed in connection with the murder. A call allegedly went from the number to one of the accused. “My husband was taking care of our youngest son when three persons with faces completely covered entered my house and shot him dead. I suspect Tejashwi, Tej Pratap, Anil Kumar Sadhu, Kalu Paswan, Manoj Paswan and Sunita Devi to be involved in the killing,” Khushboo told mediapersons. “He (Anil) wanted to contest from Raniganj and a fight was going on over the ticket. Tejashwi was demanding Rs 50 lakh for it. Kalu had threatened him with dire consequences,” she added. RJD Rajya Sabha member and national spokesperson Manoj Jha asserted that the FIR was a condemnable move registered at the behest of the ruling powers in the light of the approaching elections. Attacking chief minister Nitish Kumar, Jha said: “Chief minister ji, what drama are you doing? The police and the administration are yours. Hang him (Tejashwi) but only after investigation. Ensure an impartial probe and hang Tejashwi if he is found guilty. But do not make it a political and media investigation. Do not indulge in headlines management.” Jha asserted that the ruling National Democratic Alliance (NDA) was indulging in dirty tricks after being shaken by Tejashwi’s statements on the Hathras gang rape and murder. He also said that the telephone number from which a call purportedly went to one of the accused was removed from Rabri’s residence in 2016, but a caller identity application still shows it as belonging to Tejashwi. “The said phone number was allotted to the environment and forest department in 2018 and then taken away in 2019. It should be a matter of investigation as to who is now using that number. “The government has stooped so low that it is now getting false cases registered,” the RJD spokesperson said. JDU leader and spokesperson Sanjay Singh said the video released by Shakti and his subsequent murder points towards a deeper conspiracy and “shows that Tejashwi has no love for the upper castes, backward castes or the Scheduled Castes. He has love only for his family and money”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-628
06-10-2020||India||China can’t get the better of us: IAF chief ||The Indian Air Force is “very well-positioned” to take on China along the border in eastern Ladakh where troops of both countries have been locked in a five-month-long standoff, Air Chief Marshal R.K.S. Bhadauria said on Monday. “We are very well-positioned. There is no question that in any conflict scenario, China can get the better of us,” Bhadauria said while addressing a media conference in New Delhi ahead of Air Force Day on October 8. He, however, acknowledged that India was not underestimating the adversary. “Their strength lies in the surface-to-air systems they have put up in the area. They have long missile systems. We cater to those in our matrix… We can take on that threat,” the IAF chief said. Asked about the possibility of a two-front war, Bhadauria said that amid an “emerging threat scenario in our neighbourhood and beyond”, India was prepared for any conflict that it might face. On whether China could use Pakistani air bases, he said it would mean a collusive threat and the IAF was ready to tackle it. “We are aware they are cooperating closely. There is significant threat, but so far there is no such indication that they are colluding for a two-front war,” the air force chief said. Air Chief Marshal Bhadauria said the Rafale fighter jets that had arrived from France had given the IAF an operational and technological edge. “Integration of the Rafales brings in a platform which is way ahead and gives the capability to strike first and deep in a contested airspace,” he said. The five newly inducted Rafales, part of a 2016 deal for 36 jets, have been made operational in the Ladakh theatre and have been carrying out sorties regularly. Replying to a question on whether the armed forces had been caught by surprise by the Chinese aggression in Ladakh, Air Chief Marshal Bhadauria said: “We acted swiftly and it will not be correct to say we were surprised. We do hope the talks between the military commanders continue on the expected lines. The Chinese troops are trying to dig in for the winter and we are also taking actions to set up air assets...” So far both India and China have held a series of diplomatic and military talks to resolve the military standoff but no breakthrough has been achieved as the Chinese troops have refused to withdraw from multiple areas it has intruded into since May. Top commanders of the two armies are scheduled to hold a fresh round of talks on October 12 with the specific agenda of firming up a road map for disengagement of troops from the friction points. India and China have deployed around 50,000 troops each along with heavy weaponry in the high-altitude region to deal with any eventuality. Besides the Rafales, the IAF has deployed almost all its frontline fighter jets such as the Sukhoi 30 MKI, Jaguar and Mirage 2000 aircraft at the key frontier air bases in eastern Ladakh and elsewhere along the LAC. The IAF has also been carrying out nighttime combat air patrols over the eastern Ladakh region. A military veteran said: “It is very much clear that dialogue is not working at all. Amid the continuing Chinese aggression, the Indian Army has no choice but to stay there in the winter in the most isolated battlefield in the world.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-629
06-10-2020||India||Students, teachers demand safety and justice for Hathras family||Students and teachers from two leading institutions, as well as Ambedkarite scholars from abroad, have demanded safety and justice for the family of the Hathras gang-rape-and-murder victim. Nearly 200 faculty members and students of IIM Bangalore have written a letter to Prime Minister Narendra Modi seeking punishment of the accused persons, said to be upper caste men. “We demand justice for the family who was even denied access to participate in her last rites. We seek assurance that the family will not be intimidated, but rather supported to get justice. We demand that in addition to the perpetrators of the rape, those who seek to bury this matter with such impunity are also punished,” the letter said. The signatories demanded that the law-and-order system follow due process and mete out justice. “Not encounters. Not cover-ups. Not extra-judicial killings. Not use of tools of governance against us every time we peacefully protest actions of our government. We demand that the government and the police do their jobs and ensure safety and security for every Indian citizen,” the letter said. Faculty members of Jawaharlal Nehru University (JNU) held a candlelight march on the campus to express outrage at the Hathras tragedy. In a statement, the JNU Teachers’ Association (JNUTA) said the incident had exposed the complete failure of the administration and the law-and-order machinery. “Indeed, the handling of the matter by the UP police and the administration — its desperate efforts to somehow exonerate the accused without a full investigation, the display of an utterly callous attitude towards the girl’s family through her forcible ‘cremation’ and then the attempts to threaten and silence them, the blocking of media coverage and curbing of protests — reflects not only entrenched caste bias but also the consequences of increased politicisation of the law enforcement machinery, and erosion of its accountability to the law and to the Constitution,” the statement said. In a statement, Ambedkarites from the US, Canada, the UK, Germany, France, the Netherlands, Ireland, Spain, Sweden, Japan, South Korea, Singapore, New Zealand, Belgium, Hungary, Australia, the UAE, Oman, Qatar, Saudi Arabia, Bahrain and Malaysia said Dalits were more vulnerable to crimes due to the “casteist mindset of caste Hindus”, who have a predominant presence in the police force and the administration. They demanded that the central and the Uttar Pradesh governments stop protecting the perpetrators of such crimes. “The NRI Ambedkarite community demands strong punitive actions against the perpetrators of the crime and strong protection measures to safeguard the Dalits, especially the women, and take steps to prevent such caste-related hate crimes from happening in the future,” the signatories said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-629
06-10-2020||India||‘Confused’ class, too, shows signs of disquiet||Protests are continuing unabated on the streets and on social media over the Hathras atrocity, with those who had been somnolent till recently also stirring into action. Demonstrations were held in 28 cities on Sunday, and sanitation workers went on strike at several cities in Uttar Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh and Punjab. By nightfall, Twitter users posted messages using the hashtags “DalitLivesMatter”, “IfWeDoNotRise” and “RiseWithRage”. Pictures and videos of protests were shared widely, as were news and statistics on atrocities. Delhi-based activist Shabnam Hashmi said: “The #IfWeDoNotRise campaign involving putting out poems, visual images and graphics and talks yesterday got around 15 lakh views across Instagram, Facebook, Twitter and YouTube. The (number of) participants has grown much beyond the activist community and those who are generally vocal on these issues…. While street protests will necessarily be smaller due to the pandemic, social media is a major vehicle.” Instagram, a picture-sharing platform used relatively less for protests, was flooded with artwork condemning Hathras atrocity and the administrative harassment of the family. “Especially in Mumbai, artists organised themselves. Shireen Gandhi of the Chemould Art Gallery wrote to artists to put out their work as part of the campaign,” Hashmi said. Mumbai-based theatre and film personality Joy Sengupta said: “There are broadly three spaces post-2014 — those who uphold constitutional values, the Right wing, and the confused. People in the third space have begun to listen to their conscience, particularly after the economy has collapsed. They still may not be fully convinced that demonetisation was bad, or may associate lynchings with cattle theft and so on. But they feel disturbed, especially about the future of their children, when they see hatred all around.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-629
06-10-2020||India||Militant attack on CRPF jawans in Srinagar||Two militants on a motorcycle killed two CRPF men and injured three others in indiscriminate firing on the outskirts of Srinagar in a grim reminder of how the city has emerged as the focus of militant activities since the scrapping of Article 370 last year. Official sources said there have been around a dozen militant attacks or gunfights between security forces and militants this year, seen as a sharp escalation in violence in the city that witnessed fewer such incidents previously. Sources said the bike-borne militants fired upon a road opening party of the 110 battalion of the CRPF at Kandipzal area of Nowgam bypass. An official said the five injured were rushed to 92 Base Hospital in Srinagar where two cops succumbed. The slain were identified as constable Shailendra Singh and constable driver Dhirendra Tripathi. “The firing was brief but indiscriminate and the militants managed to escape by taking advantage of the movement of civilian vehicles on the road,” an official said. Security forces rushed to the area in large numbers and sealed the entry and exit points to hunt down the militants. Valley police chief Vijay Kumar claimed Lashkar was involved in the attack. He said Pakitani militant Saifullah and his local associate were behind the attack. This was the second attack in Nowgam in less than two months. In August, militants killed two policemen in a nearby locality. Kumar said militants were using the crowded and busy national highway to carry out attacks. “Any retaliation can lead to civilian casualties and militants are taking advantage of this,” he said. The city has witnessed around half-a-dozen encounters between security forces and the militants at Batmaloo, Nawakadal, Zoonimar, Malbagh, Mujgund, Parimpora and Panthachowk this year. A series of attacks also took place in Pandach and Nowgam. Suspected militants are believed to have killed lawyer-activist Babar Qadri at his home in Srinagar’s congested Hawal locality. When the BJP-led government scrapped Article 370 in Jammu & Kashmir last year, it had claimed the move would end militancy in the region and bring peace, which has remained a far cry so far.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-629
06-10-2020||India||Modi ‘dials’, Yogi’s rivals delighted||Uttar Pradesh deputy chief minister Keshav Prasad Maurya, passed over for the top job in the state in favour of Yogi Adityanath, on Monday bubbled with exuberance after receiving a call from Prime Minister Narendra Modi enquiring how he was recuperating from Covid-19. Maurya’s effusive social media posts, a “rare” call from Modi involving matters of personal well-being and the timing of the telephone conversation prompted many to float tantalising theories at a time the Adityanath administration has been besieged by allegations of high-handedness and protests demanding the chief minister’s removal, particularly in the aftermath of the Hathras atrocity. Some BJP leaders ventured as far as to compare Maurya’s advantages with Adityanath’s perceived shortcoming and assert that the latter is not “fit for an administrative job”. Maurya, who was on Monday hailed by some in the BJP as a more mature politician, tweeted: “Despite being very busy, the brilliant Prime Minister, respected Narendra Modiji, asked me over the phone today morning about my health and gave me necessary directions with regard to my health. I am proud of our supreme leader. A current of new energy flowed in my body when you asked me about my wellbeing.” Maurya, who tested positive for the coronavirus two days ago, laced his tweets with the hashtag “ModiPoochaHaal”, or “Modi has asked how I am doing”. BJP sources said it was an open secret that Adityanath and Maurya did not get along. They also pointed to the sudden twist of fate in 2017 when Maurya was widely believed to be the BJP frontrunner for the chief minister’s post but the party sprung a surprise by selecting the saffron-clad Gorakhpur MP and temple mahant, pulling him out of local politics and disregarding the fact that he was never a state-level leader. In Delhi at that time, Maurya had fallen sick, complaining of restlessness, and had to be admitted to hospital soon after Adityanath’s ascension to the seat of power was announced on March 16, 2017. A senior BJP leader said the Prime Minister was not known to have called up other leaders in Uttar Pradesh afflicted with the novel coronavirus. “Many ministers have tested positive for the coronavirus in the past three months. Two ministers — Chetan Chauhan and Kamla Rani — have died. The Prime Minister never called them or their family members. The Prime Minister has never called Yogi to enquire about personal matters. We see a message in his conversation with Maurya.” The BJP leader, who requested anonymity, said Adityanath, 48, and Maurya, 51, were in the same age group. “The deputy chief minister is more mature than the chief minister. The Brahmins and Dalits are very angry with Yogi and they believe that the chief minister is pro-Thakur. The Prime Minister knows that we need to change this perception if we have to win the 2022 Assembly polls. Maurya is an OBC and his reach among the masses is far better than that of Yogi, who has no support base outside Gorakhpur,” the leader said. With the Assembly elections in the politically crucial state not too far away, a perception is gaining ground that Adityanath’s style of functioning is costing the BJP dearly. The BJP leader said the “mishandling” of the cases of gangster Vikas Dubey and the gang rape and murder of the Dalit teen in Hathras had “proved that Yogi is not fit for an administrative job”. “It is also no secret that Maurya and Yogi have argued many times over several issues. Modi must be aware of everything and thinking of correcting a wrong,” he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-629
06-10-2020||India||New farm laws will spare none: Rahul Gandhi||Rahul Gandhi on Monday said the new farm laws would hurt not only the farmers and farm labourers but everybody else, too, because they would destroy the country’s food security. “Koi nahin bachne wala (Nobody will be spared) —farmers, labourers, small shopkeepers, traders, youth, women,” Rahul told a farmers’ rally on the second day of his Kheti Bachao Yatra (Save the Farm March). “The day the agriculture sector is taken over by these two — Adani and Ambani —the whole of India will be enslaved. It’s not a farmers’ issue, it’s about food security, it’s linked to the people’s freedom.” Rahul warned: “Don’t trust me now, but remember what I’m saying. When your farms are snatched, when you are enslaved, recall what Rahul Gandhi said. It is my duty to tell you the truth. You too will have to face the truth after a few years. The prices of essential commodities will soar — what you buy for Rs 10 now will be available for Rs 50. You may not understand the conspiracy today but wait for a few years for the truth to manifest itself.” The former Congress president argued that all the policies of the Narendra Modi government had been tailor-made to help a few corporate houses. “There won’t be any choice for the people. Adani on one side; Ambani on the other. Only two. Small and medium businesses were destroyed by notebandi, the flawed GST and the lockdown. Now these farm laws,” he said. “Why couldn’t Modi wait for a year; why did he bring these laws in now? Because he thought the farmers won’t be able to protest during the Covid-19 restrictions. Any political resistance won’t be possible under these circumstances. But he doesn’t know the strength of farmers. We will together show him what we can do.” Rahul predicted that the job scene would worsen once the farm sector — which he described as India’s backbone — was broken. He wondered how the people of Punjab and Haryana were silent in the face of such an assault on their freedom. Invoking the message of Guru Nanak that nobody can escape from the truth, Rahul said: “Punjab gave food to the whole of India. And now Modi is trying to snatch the rights of Punjab farmers. How do you tolerate it? Punjab, Haryana, Maharashtra, Madhya Pradesh, Gujarat… should rise united in protest. I will stand by you. I’m not scared of them.” He linked the Chinese aggression on the borders to Modi’s policies that he said had weakened India. “How dare China encroach on our land? They have captured 12km of India’s land. And Modi says nobody entered. Then how were our 20 soldiers killed? Where were they killed if nobody entered our territory?” he said. “China was emboldened by a weak India, because our economy (that was) growing at 9 per cent has slumped to minus 24 per cent. Modi has destroyed this country in the process of helping his friends.” Rahul’s march, which has attracted large crowds over the last two days, is to enter Haryana on Tuesday. A confrontation had seemed probable when the Haryana home minister said Rahul would not be allowed to enter the state, but the threat has receded amid a signal that the Congress leader would be let in if he came without a cavalcade. The tractor rally from Punjab looks likely to terminate at the Haryana border, allowing Rahul to proceed without any conflict.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-629
06-10-2020||India||Reopen rules for schools ||The Union education ministry released guidelines on Monday for the reopening of schools from October 15, which include thorough cleaning and disinfection of the premises, flexibility in attendance, no assessment for up to three weeks and ensuring a smooth transition from home-based schooling during the lockdown to formal schooling. It also asked the states and Union territories to frame their own standard operating procedures (SOPs) for health and safety precautions based on their local requirements. “Schools must arrange and implement for thorough cleaning and disinfecting of all areas, furniture, equipment, stationery, storage places, water tanks, kitchens, canteens, washrooms, laboratories, libraries and ensure air flow in an indoor space,” the ministry said. The ministry recommended that the schools adopt flexible attendance and sick leave policies. “Flexible attendance and sick leave policies may be developed and implemented to encourage students and staff to stay at home when sick. Students may attend schools only with the written consent of parents... There shall be no assessment up to 2-3 weeks of school reopening and use of ICT and online learning shall continue to be encouraged,” it said. According to the guidelines, schools can implement re-adjusted school calendar and redesigned Annual Curriculum Plan, remedial classes or conduct back-to-school campaign among other steps. “Physical distancing and social distancing should be ensured while planning the seating plan, functions and events should be avoided. There should be staggered entry and exit timings, points of schools and timetable. All students and staff should arrive wearing a face cover or mask and continue wearing it all through, especially when in class, or doing any activity in groups, such as eating in the mess, working in the laboratories or reading in the libraries,” the ministry said. “Schools should all students have access to prescribed textbooks before school reopens,” the guidelines added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-629
06-10-2020||India||JDU set to  fight in 122 seats, BJP 121||The ruling National Democratic Alliance (NDA) finally arrived at a seat-sharing formula between chief minister Nitish Kumar’s Janata Dal United (JDU) and the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) on Monday for the Bihar Assembly elections. The JDU will contest 122 seats and the BJP 121 in the 243-seat House. “Our party will contest from 122 seats and the BJP will contest from 121. The agreement has been reached. Both the parties (JDU and BJP) will go to the polls together and campaign jointly,” JDU secretary-general K.C. Tyagi told The Telegraph. The JDU will accommodate former chief minister Jitan Ram Manjhi’s Hindustani Awam Morcha (Secular). Sources said five seats in southern Bihar would be given to the party and Manjhi was expected to fight from two among them. The BJP is expected to spare a few seats for the Vikassheel Insan Party (VIP) of Bollywood set designer Madan Sahni. He had quit the Opposition Grand Alliance on Sunday soon after finding out that the party had not been given any seat while the allocation was being announced. An official announcement on the NDA seat-sharing deal is expected on Tuesday. The Lok Janshakti Party (LJP), which broke away from the NDA in Bihar on Sunday, had already announced that it would contest from 143 seats, including those from which the JDU would field candidates. LJP leader and MP Chirag Paswan appealed to people on Monday not to vote for the JDU. “This is a decisive time for Bihar and a matter of life and death for its 12-crore people. Even a single vote given to JDU candidates will force your children to migrate from the state,” Chirag said. Bihar will go to polls in three phases on October 28, November 3 and 7. The counting will be done on November 10. The nomination filing process for the first phase started on October 1 with the last date being October 9. However, the JDU started distributing tickets to its candidates on Monday itself, long before people could get a wind of the seat-sharing deal. Several existing and former MLAs made a beeline for Nitish’s official residence at 1, Aney Marg in Patna after getting calls from senior party leaders asking them to collect their candidature papers and symbol to file nomination. Altogether 71 constituencies, including those affected by Left-wing extremism in southern, central and western parts of the state, will witness voting in the first phase. JDU secretary-general Tyagi said: “Since there is already an understanding on the number of seats each party will contest, our party has started distributing tickets to candidates. I think the BJP is also distributing tickets.” However, there was no word from the BJP on the distribution of tickets till late on Monday evening. Its leaders said the party’s Bihar in-charge, former Maharashtra chief minister Devendra Fadnavis, and other senior leaders were expected to reach Patna on Monday night and make the announcements on Tuesday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-629
