07-10-2020||India||NCW summons BJP politician for making offensive comments on Hathras victim||The NCW on Wednesday summoned BJP leader Ranjeet Srivastava for reportedly making offensive remarks against a 19-year-old Dalit woman who died after allegedly being raped by four men in Uttar Pradesh's Hathras. The National Commission for Women said it has sent a notice to Srivastava, asking him to appear before it on October 26 at 11 am to give an explanation. The commission tweeted, "@NCWIndia strongly condemns the offensive and defamatory remarks made by political leader #RanjeetSrivastava regarding the #Hathras victim. The Commission has sent him a notice directing him to appear before NCW on October 26th at 11 AM to give an explanation." NCW chairperson Rekha Sharma said Srivastava is "not fit" to be called the leader of any party. "He is not fit to be called leader of any party. He is showing his primitive and sick mindset and I am going to send notice to him," Sharma earlier tweeted. According to media reports, Srivastava made offensive comments on the victim's character. The Dalit woman was allegedly raped in a Hathras village by four men on September 14. After her condition deteriorated, she was referred to Delhi's Safdarjung hospital where she succumbed to her injuries. She was cremated in the dead of the night, with her family alleging the local police forced them to conduct the last rites in such an early hour. Local police officers, however, had said the cremation was carried out "as per the wishes of the family". The incident led to protests across the country with people from different sectors demanding justice for the victim.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-625
07-10-2020||India||Workers in India facing severe stress, finds out Microsoft survey||Employees in India are facing increased burnout due to lack of separation between work and personal life as well as concerns of contracting Covid-19, a report said on Wednesday. According to Microsoft's latest Work Trend Index, that surveyed over 6,000 information and first-line workers across eight countries globally, India had the second highest percentage of workers facing increased burnout in Asia at 29 per cent. Moreover, India came out on top with over 41 per cent of workers citing the lack of separation between work and personal life as negatively impacting their well-being, resulting in increased stress levels, the report said. "In the last six months, we have seen how Covid-19 has created an era of remote anywhere. It has led to the evolution of a new workplace from a physical space to one residing in a virtual world," said Samik Roy, Country Head, Modern Work, Microsoft India. Roy further noted that "as businesses adapt to a new way of working, it is important to examine the multifaceted impact that the new working conditions are having on employees. This is helping us provide relevant and timely solutions to all our customers and users". The pandemic increased burnout at work, in some countries more than others. In India, 29 per cent of workers are experiencing increased burnout at work, owing to its increase in workday span by 1 hour. While, workers in Germany saw very little change to workday span or feelings of burnout, the report said. Data showed that, globally, even six months past the first work-from-home orders, people are in significantly more meetings, taking more ad hoc calls and managing more incoming chats than they did before the pandemic. "As people adjusted to remote working, after hours chats, or chats between 5 pm and midnight, have also increased," the report said. Further, for remote workers in Asia, no commute is hurting and not helping productivity, the report said adding that for years, Microsoft's research group has been studying how commute has helped maintain work-life boundaries and worker's productivity and well-being. Microsoft said a series of updates have been launched within Microsoft Teams to support employee wellbeing. These include a virtual commute experience that helps users prepare for the day and mindfully disconnect in the evening. Microsoft has also partnered with Headspace to bring a curated set of mindfulness and meditation experiences into the Teams platform and launched new Teams experiences for first-line workers to support them with the tools they need to work more safely. This Work Trend Index report looks at how the pandemic has impacted well-being at work globally. It studied how productivity patterns in Microsoft Teams have shifted since early this year and surveyed over 6,000 information and first-line workers in eight countries including Australia, Brazil, Germany, Japan, India, Singapore, the UK, and the US.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-626
07-10-2020||India||Public places cannot be occupied indefinitely, says SC on Shaheen Bagh ||Occupying public places for protests is not acceptable and areas like Shaheen Bagh -- which had seen prolonged anti-CAA demonstrations starting December last year -- cannot be occupied "indefinitely", the Supreme Court held on Wednesday. It said protests should be at a designated place and any occupation of public places or roads by demonstrators, which cause inconvenience to a large number of people and violate their rights, is not permissible under law. The apex court also said that the authorities concerned should not hide behind courts and act on their own in such situations. A bench headed by Justice S K Kaul said balance has to be struck between the right to protest and other public rights like the right to movement. "Democracy and dissent go hand in hand," said the bench, also comprising Justices Aniruddha Bose and Krishna Murari. It does not mean that the agitating people should adopt means and modes of protest that were used against colonial rulers, it said, adding that public places cannot be occupied "indefinitely" for protests like in the Shaheen Bagh case. The verdict came on a plea against the anti-CAA protests which had led to the blocking of a road in Shaheen Bagh here last December. Pronouncing the verdict via video conferencing, the bench said the authorities like Delhi Police ought to have taken action to clear Shaheen Bagh area from the protesters. The authorities have to act on their own and cannot hide behind courts in dealing with such a situation, it added. The verdict came on a plea of lawyer Amit Sahni against the blockade of a road in Shaheen Bagh area by persons protesting against the CAA which aimed to provide Indian citizenship to persecuted minorities of Pakistan, Afghanistan and Bangladesh. The top court had reserved its verdict in the case on September 21 by observing that there cannot be a "universal policy" on right to protest and possible curbs as also balancing it with acts like blocking of roads are needed because the situation may "vary" from case-to-case. Sahni had initially approached the Delhi High Court seeking directions to Delhi Police to ensure smooth traffic flow on the Kalindi Kunj-Shaheen Bagh stretch, which was blocked by anti-CAA protesters on December 15. The high court had urged local authorities to deal with the situation keeping in mind law and order. Sahni then filed a special leave petition in the apex court against the high court's order. The plea had sought directions to the police to ensure smooth traffic flow on Kalindi Kunj-Shaheen Bagh stretch. It had sought supervision of the situation in Shaheen Bagh, where several women are sitting on protest, by a retired Supreme Court judge or a sitting judge of the Delhi High Court in order to circumvent any violence. Restrictions were imposed on the Kaindi Kunj-Shaheen Bagh stretch and the Okhla underpass, which were closed on December 15 last year due to the protests against the Citizenship (Amendment) Act (CAA) and the National Register of Citizens (NRC). However, later due to the Covid-19 pandemic and consequent protocol to deal with it, the protest area was cleared.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-626
07-10-2020||India||Rhea steps out of Mumbai jail after almost a month||After spending 28 days in prison, actor Rhea Chakraborty, arrested in a drugs case related to her boyfriend Sushant Singh Rajput's death, was released on bail on Wednesday. Rhea stepped out of the Byculla prison here around 5.30 pm amid heavy police deployment, an official said. A police vehicle escorted her car as a large number of media persons had gathered outside the prison. Earlier in the day, the Bombay High Court granted her bail but rejected her brother Showik Chkraborty's bail plea. A bench of Justice Sarang Kotwal also granted bail to Rajput's aides Dipesh Sawant and Samuel Miranda, but rejected the bail plea of Rhea Chakraborty's brother Showik Chakraborty, who is also an accused in the case. The court also rejected the bail plea of alleged drug peddler Abdel Basit Parihar. Rhea Chakraborty, her brother and the other accused were arrested last month by the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) in connection with its probe into the drugs angle related to the case of Rajput's death. The HC, while granting bail to Rhea Chakraborty and two others, directed them to deposit their passports with the NCB and not to leave the country without permission of the special NDPS court. The HC asked Rhea to deposit a personal bond of Rs 1 lakh and said she must visit the nearest police station at 11 am for the first 10 days after being released from judicial custody. It directed her not to leave Mumbai without the NCB's permission and to not tamper with evidence while out on bail. The HC also directed Rhea to visit the NCB office at 11 am on the first day of every month for next six months. All those who have been granted bail, including Rhea, will also have to seek permission of the NCB's investigating officer to go out of Mumbai, the court said. Rhea and her brother had approached the HC after their bail pleas were rejected by a special NDPS court here last month. Justice Sarang Kotwal said in his judgement that he had dealt with extensive questions on law vis-a-vis the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act during the arguments. He also refused to accept the NCB's request for a stay on his order to allow the agency to challenge the order. "I have already imposed very stringent conditions in the bail. If your appeal is accepted and the bail order is stayed then what prejudice will be caused to you?" the judge asked the NCB. Rhea Chakraborty's lawyer Satish Maneshinde said they were are delighted by the high court order. "Truth and justice have prevailed and ultimately the submissions on facts and law have been accepted by Justice Sarang V Kotwal," he said. The arrest and custody of Rhea was "totally unwarranted and beyond the reach of law", Maneshinde said. "The hounding and witch-hunt by three central agencies--the CBI, ED and NCB --of Rhea should come to an end. We remain committed to truth," he said. Rajput, 34, was found hanging at his apartment in suburban Bandra on June 14 this year. Following extensive hearings last week, the HC had closed all arguments and reserved its verdict on the pleas.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-626
07-10-2020||India||UP govt provides SIT 10 more days to complete Hathras probe||The UP government has given an additional 10 days to the three-member SIT investigating the alleged gang rape and killing of a 19-year-old Dalit woman in Hathras as the "probe is not complete", a senior official said Wednesday. The special investigation team, constituted on September 30 and led by Home Secretary Bhagwan Swarup, was initially given seven days to submit its report. But the UP government later sought a CBI probe into the case and the criminal conspiracy to spread caste conflict it has suspected. On Tuesday, it told the Supreme Court it wanted an apex court-monitored CBI inquiry into the incident to ensure "no vested interests will be able to create fake, false narrative with oblique motives". "Yes...the time for submitting report for the SIT has been extended by 10 days," Additional Chief Secretary (Home) Awanish Kumar Awasthi said. Asked about the reasons for the extension, he added, "The reason is one. The probe is not complete." The Yogi Adityanath government is fighting severe criticism for its handling of the case, particularly after the local police burnt the woman's body at night without the family's approval. However, officials said the cremation was done "as per the wishes of the family". The government has claimed that some people were trying to foment caste tensions in the aftermath of the alleged rape of the woman by four "upper caste" men on September 14. Quoting an FSL report, it has denied the rape charge. Referring to 'recent' incidents , Chief Minister Adityanath has said that anarchist elements were trying to trigger communal and caste violence in the state. In an affidavit filed in the Supreme Court in response to a PIL, the government said there have been "orchestrated efforts to malign the image of the government on social media by attributing baseless comments and building up a distorted narrative on the Hathras case . The woman died on September 29 of the grievous injuries she suffered during the assault.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-626
07-10-2020||India||Probe sought into false ‘propaganda’||A team of women activists that visited the family of the Dalit teen who was gang-raped and murdered in Uttar Pradesh’s Hathras last month demanded the suspension of the district magistrate in addition to the cops already benched, and also a probe into “diversionary propaganda”. The team that went to the victim’s village on Monday included Annie Raja, general secretary of the CPI’s National Federation of Indian Women; Poonam Kaushik, general secretary of the CPIML-New Democracy’s Pragatisheel Mahila Sangathan; and Shabnam Hashmi of Act Now for Harmony and Democracy, a civil rights group based in Delhi. In their report released on Tuesday, they said the village had a history of Dalit women being harassed by men from the dominant Thakur community. “The girls and women of Dalit families face harassment on a regular basis when they go out. One of the accused had in fact tried several times in the past six months to harass the deceased girl and as a result she had stopped going out alone… From the moment they took her to Hathras police station to her forced cremation, they faced intimidation, threats, manhandling (and) also allurement of money once the case became public. The family was particularly distraught at the atrocious manner in which the police cremated her without allowing any of the family members to take a last look,” the report said. They accused the Uttar Pradesh government and the BJP of spreading false information. “We note with grave concern and indignation that despite the deceased’s dying declaration and circumstantial evidence, various members of the ruling party and members of the dominant caste have started building a narrative that the victim was not raped. “The head of the BJP IT cell tweeted a video of the girl disclosing her identity, which violates the law, in an attempt to say that she was not raped…. The UP government has filed cases against those who organised protests against the brutal attack on the Dalit girl by men of high caste, and is now calling it an international conspiracy to malign the Yogi government and create caste riots in UP,” the report added. Besides iterating the demand for chief minister Yogi Adityanath’s resignation, a time-bound probe and protection of the family, the activists also sought the suspension of Hathras district magistrate Praveen Kumar Laxkar under whose watch the forcible cremation took place. The team demanded “an enquiry into the role of all authorities, including public representatives, in denying justice”, and “that NHRC should investigate why all dissent is being criminalised”. The team also spoke to doctors at the Jawaharlal Nehru Medical College in Aligarh where the girl had been admitted.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-626
07-10-2020||India||Hathras incident horrible, shocking: SC||The Supreme Court on Tuesday termed as “shocking”, “horrible” and “extraordinary” the “gang rape” and murder of the 19-year-old Dalit girl in Uttar Pradesh’s Hathras district. The court directed the state government to explain measures undertaken to provide adequate protection to witnesses and facilitate a transparent investigation and trial. The court said it would “ensure” that the investigation into the case was “smooth” but indicated that since Allahabad High Court had already taken cognisance of the incident, it would examine the modalities that could be evolved for a free and fair trial, possibly under the high court. The apex court will hear the matter again next week. Chief Justice of India S.A. Bobde, heading a three-judge bench, asked solicitor-general Tushar Mehta, appearing for the Uttar Pradesh government: “We want to know from you how the witnesses’ protection is being done… whether the victim’s family has chosen a lawyer.” Mehta told the court that protecting the witnesses was the bounden duty of the State, which had already been taken care of. “Ms Jaising is asking for witness protection but many people don’t know that the witnesses are already under protection,” Mehta said, referring to lawyer Indira Jaising. Jaising is among several lawyers who are appearing for separate petitioners who have sought a court-monitored CBI probe into the incident. Some of the petitioners have also sought transfer of the entire trial to Delhi. The Supreme Court bench, which includes Justices A.S. Bopanna and V. Ramasubramanian, asked Mehta and other counsel about the status of the Allahabad High Court’s proceedings. The CJI said: “We want suggestions from you all on how we can widen the scope of the proceedings before the HC.” Mehta told the court that the state was not opposed to a CBI probe but the incident should not be sensationalised or politicised. “I am only praying that this court should supervise the probe,” he said. When some of the counsel for the PIL petitioners wanted to argue, Justice Bobde said: “…The case is indeed shocking and extraordinary”. But he questioned the locus standi of the petitioners to file petitions in a criminal case as only the State as the prosecution agency or the victim’s family can be heard. Later, the Congress accused the Yogi Adityanath government in Uttar Pradesh of running a massive cover-up operation, claiming that blatant lies were included in the affidavit to the Supreme Court. Mahila Congress president Sushmita Dev said: “Isn’t it mysterious that the PIL is not even listed, no notice was issued, but the Uttar Pradesh government files a 136-page affidavit? The affidavit is full of blatant lies. They have denied rape and claimed that cremation was done with full rituals in front of the family.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-626
07-10-2020||India||Hathras child dies after rape in Aligarh kin home||A six-year-old Hathras girl who had allegedly been raped by a cousin and an accomplice at her aunt’s home in Aligarh, where she had been staying after the death of her mother, died at a Delhi hospital on Tuesday after battling for life for 19 days. The girl had allegedly been raped and locked up in a bathroom at her aunt’s home in the Iglas area of Aligarh and was rescued by children who heard her cries while playing nearby. The crime and its aftermath resemble the case of the Dalit teen in Hathras who was gang-raped and murdered last month. In this case too, police have been accused of dithering in registering a case. The six-year-old girl had initially been taken to a local hospital and then shifted to JN Medical College in Aligarh and from there to Sarojini Naidu Medical College in Agra where she breathed her last. The medical report at the Aligarh medical college, from where she had been shifted to the Agra hospital on Sunday, has confirmed rape and found that the six-year-old had suffered vaginal damage. The local police in Aligarh registered a case on September 24, seven days after the crime, when the condition of the victim started to deteriorate. Her 15-year-old cousin has been arrested and sent to a remand home. Another accused, described as the main perpetrator by the girl’s family, and the victim’s aunt are absconding. Perhaps chastened by the widespread condemnation over its handling of the case of the Hathras teenager and a protest held on Tuesday amid the charged atmosphere in the district by the six-year-old’s family with her body, the police moved swiftly to suspend the station house officer of Iglas. Aligarh senior superintendent of police Muniraj G. said the cousin had confessed to his crime. The girl’s family sat on a dharna on Mathura Road near their village in the Sadabad area of Hathras for about five hours, demanding the arrest of the “main accused” and action against the police in Iglas. The girl’s father said: “Her aunt (mother’s sister) had taken her to her home in January after my wife died. A youth of that village and her son gang-raped my daughter and locked her up in a bathroom. Some children who were playing nearby heard her cries and rescued her. “Some members of (the NGO) ChildLine heard about the incident and admitted her to a local hospital the same evening (September 17). From there, she was shifted to Aligarh and then to Delhi, where she died on Tuesday morning.” He alleged that the police in Iglas had refused to register a complaint on September 17. “A case was registered against the aunt and her son when the police realised that my daughter could die. But the main accused is roaming freely in the village and I have told the police about him. I want the suspension of all the personnel at Iglas police station and the arrest of the main tormentor of my daughter,” he added. Muniraj, the Aligarh SSP, said: “Praveen Kumar Mann, the station house officer of Iglas, has been suspended because he didn’t take the complaint seriously. The accused has been arrested and sent to a remand home. The aunt is absconding. The government has announced a compensation of Rs 10 lakh for the family.” The officer said the family withdrew the dharna after the local administration assured them that the police would look into their allegations.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-626
07-10-2020||India||Fault lies with raid on institutions: Rahul||Rahul Gandhi on Tuesday contested the popular perception that a weak Opposition allowed free run to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, pointing to a much bigger crisis of forcible capture of institutions that enabled the BJP’s dominance over India’s polity. Asked at a news conference in Patiala about the widespread belief that the Opposition’s weaknesses and absence of unity helped Modi despite his failures, Rahul said: “Opposition in any country functions within a framework. What is that framework? It is the press, the judicial system, and the institutions that protect the voice of the people. That entire framework has been captured.” Rahul added: “The entire architecture of giving voice to the people of India is captured and controlled by the BJP. If the entire institutional architecture is captured, then to say that the Opposition is weak…it doesn’t, that’s not really a correct statement. Give me a free press, give me institutions that are free and the government will not last.” Without elaborating on the role of judiciary any further, the former Congress president said: “I can give proof, clear-cut proof… for example, the Rafale deal. I can bring it to you but you won’t show it. At a certain level, frankly, you are also not doing your job. It is okay for you to blame the Opposition, to say that the Opposition is weak but you (media) are also walking into slavery.” Expressing his frustration over the role of the media, which he believes is a manifestation of institutional capture, Rahul said: “In any other country of the world, it is not possible that the media says nothing if 1,200sqkm of land is taken by another country. The girl is raped, her neck is broken… and the administration is attacking the family. This is forcible capture. If captured with affection, I will support it. But it is captured by force.” He persisted with his dismay over the media’s attitude when asked about the BJP’s criticism that he was sitting on a sofa placed on the tractor and his visits to trouble spots were part of political tourism. He burst out, “and no questions are asked when Modiji buys a plane worth Rs 8,000 crore. Because his friend Donald Trump has that plane, he also wants it. But if I am sitting on a tractor, somebody put a cushion on the seat, that’s an issue.” He added: “I do my job. I work with the people. Media and other institutions are captured and they won’t ask questions when MSMEs are destroyed, youth don’t get jobs. The youth will accept the reality one day. I am patient, I will wait for a while.” In response to another question, he said: “I am a person who instinctively feels against injustice, that’s what I have been, I was attacked when I fought for Land Acquisition Act. Niyamgiri, MGNREGA and now farm bills….I am standing with the people. My political path would have been easier had that not been in me. But that’s what I am.” To another question about the government and the BJP leaders making a mockery of his stand on farm laws, he said: “People will judge whose understanding is correct, I won’t say anything on that. When I warned of corona, they made fun of me. The Prime Minister said corona battle would be won in 21 days. When workers were walking home, dying on the way, Modiji didn’t utter a word. Now food security system is being destroyed. Wait for six months to see what happens. From notebandi to farm laws, all these decisions were taken to help Adani-Ambani. They have ordered Modi to clear the way for them.” He then gave the example of Chinese intrusion to question Modi’s credibility, saying: “Modi said India’s land has not been captured. 1,200sqkm has been captured. Ask any army general and he will tell you. China knows this man will give 1,200sqkm to protect his image. Modi lied to the country. Call the Prime Minister to a press conference and ask him. Why is he scared? He is interested in only his own image. He waves his hand in an empty tunnel. He knows the media is in control, no questions will be asked.” When pointed out that the BJP considers demonetisation, goods and services tax, lockdown and farm laws their achievements, the Congress leader shot back, “Don’t trust me, ask the MSMEs, small shopkeepers and farmers. Why are farmers protesting? Why doesn’t Modi come to Punjab and talk to farmers?||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-626
07-10-2020||India||Festival advisory discourages choirs  ||The Union health ministry on Tuesday urged people 65 years or older, children 10 years or younger, people with underlying health disorders and pregnant women to stay away from public gatherings for worship, festivities, exhibitions, fairs, or rallies in the coming months. The ministry released a set of standard operating procedures for festivities that also prohibit any events within containment zones and call on all people living within containment zones to observe festivals inside their homes. The SOPs for festivities come amid a downward trend in daily new cases nationwide observed over the past two weeks, but lingering concerns that crowding during the upcoming festive season from October through December could trigger fresh surges in cases. India’s seven-day average daily new case count has fallen at a near-steady level from around 97,800 on September 16 to 77,100 on October 5. But health officials and medical experts are worried about a rise through crowding during festivals. Kerala’s daily counts increased since Onam. The rules discourage any choir or group singing, citing concerns about the risk of spread of the coronavirus. “As far as feasible, recorded devotional music or songs may be played and choir and singing groups should not be allowed,” the rules specify. Anecdotal evidence and scientific studies have pointed to singing as a significant source of spread of the virus. In one event in the US, 32 of 61 people who had attended a two-and-a-half hour choir session with one symptomatic person became infected. A Swedish study last month examining aerosol dispersion had shown through experiments that singing — particularly loud and consonant-rich singing — could spread droplets. The health ministry rules specify that face masks will be mandatory for all people in public places, individuals will need to maintain at least six feet from each other, and no one with any respiratory symptoms should be allowed into venues. The events’ organisers would need to arrange personal protective equipment such as face masks and hand sanitisers for staff, facilitate sufficient numbers of ticket counters to maintain physical distancing norms and make provisions for “contactless payments.” Organisers of exhibitions, fairs, puja mandals, Ramlila pandals, concerts and plays would need to ensure caps on the numbers of people entering the venue through staggered timings or restrictions on the number of entries.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-626
07-10-2020||India||Herbal cocktails but trials still on ||The Centre on Tuesday released a protocol that prescribes specific dosages of herbal cocktails to prevent and treat the new coronavirus infection although clinical trials to assess their effect on Covid-19 are yet to be completed. The Union ayurveda, yoga, unani, siddha, and homeopathy (Ayush) ministry has listed several remedies, including formulations based on ashwagandha, guduchi and a product called AYUSH 64, for the prevention or treatment of asymptomatic or mild Covid-19. The ministry said the recommendations had emerged from a panel of medical experts and were based on “knowledge from ayurveda classics and experience from clinical practice, empirical evidence and biological plausibility, and emerging trends of ongoing clinical studies”. The protocol lists traditional homemade remedies such as warm gargles, turmeric-laced milk and warm decoctions of spices. It also recommends 500mg ashwagandha, 500mg guduchi and 10gm chyavanaprash for preventive care and a mix of guduchi and pipali and AYUSH 64 for patients with asymptomatic or mild Covid-19. “These remedies should go along with standard precautions such as masks and physical distancing — they should not convey a false sense of security,” Ayush secretary Rajesh Kotecha said. “We believe based on accumulated evidence that these remedies will help in early cures.” Kotecha said the expert medical panel led by former Indian Council of Medical Research chief Vishwa Mohan Katoch had taken into account in-silico (on computer), experimental, clinical and safety studies done over the years in making the recommendations. There are 254 experimental and 30 clinical studies on ashwagandha showing its immuno-modulatory and anti-viral effects and five in-silico studies suggest that ashwagandha can block the entry of SARS-C0V-2, the virus that causes Covid-19, into human cells, Kotecha said. Similarly, he said, 38 clinical studies have already established the immuno-modulatory and anti-viral effects of guduchi, while 25 experimental studies and eight clinical studies have shown the potential benefits from AYUSH 64. The Ayush ministry had earlier this year initiated multiple clinical trials at sites across India to assess the efficacy of various Ayush remedies, including ashwagandha, guduchi and AYUSH 64, specifically against Covid-19. “We are also seeing positive trends from these ongoing trials,” Kotecha said. However, several principal investigators engaged in the trials told The Telegraph on Tuesday that the trials themselves or their data analysis was yet to be completed. Data from a nationwide trial by the Central Council for Research in Ayurvedic Sciences seeking to test the efficacy of guduchi as a preventive agent on around 30,000 people living in containment zones are still “under analysis”, a senior CCRAS official told this newspaper. The Ayush ministry has initiated six trials on AYUSH 64, of which one trial in Jamnagar, Gujarat, has been completed, the trials’ investigators said. The AYUSH 64 trials in Chandigarh, Delhi, Jodhpur, Hassan (Karnataka) and Ahmedabad are not complete yet, they said. Some medical experts have questioned the decision to recommend dosages without sufficient evidence. “None of the remedies listed in the protocol has proved their mettle through controlled trials,” said Shri Prakash Kalantri, professor of medicine at the Mahatma Gandhi Institute of Medical Sciences, Wardha. Kalantri questioned the absence of peer-reviewed published evidence demonstrating the magnitude of the benefits from each of the remedies. “We must note that a sick person may attribute symptomatic relief to an otherwise ineffective therapy due to the placebo effect or the natural recovery from the infection,” he said. Kalantri and other doctors cautioned that unproven health recommendations could lead to some individuals forgoing potentially effective treatment such as dexamethasone. “In waiting, they may lose the opportunity to obtain timely treatments,” he said. The Indian Medical Association, the country’s largest body of modern medicine doctors, has also questioned what it has described as the government’s effort to introduce traditional systems of medicine into Covid-19 treatment without adequate evidence of their efficacy. “Science should be based on double-blind controlled clinical trials,” said R.V. Asokan, secretary-general of the IMA. “It is for the claimants to bring evidence of credibility.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-626
07-10-2020||India||Plea to SC on held journalist||One of the four persons arrested by Uttar Pradesh police on Monday night while they were on their way to Hathras and accused of instigating communal violence is a journalist who had been travelling to the district to meet the family of the rape-and-murder victim, a journalists’ association has said. The Kerala Union of Working Journalists (KUWJ) on Tuesday filed a habeas corpus petition in the Supreme Court against the arrest of Sidhique Kappan, saying the move was illegal and unconstitutional. The association has sought his immediate production and release from “illegal detention”. Uttar Pradesh police on Monday night arrested four persons — identified as Sidhique Kappan of Malappuram, Masood Ahmad of Bahraich, Atiq-ur-Rahman of Muzaffarnagar and Mohammad Alam of Rampur — and said they were members of the Popular Front of India. The PFI is a Right-wing Muslim outfit on which the Uttar Pradesh government had sought a ban in the aftermath of the protests against the new citizenship regime earlier this year. The PFI, too, has said Kappan is not a member of the outfit. The PFI has often landed in controversies in Kerala and Karnataka too. Prashant Kumar, the additional director-general of police of Uttar Pradesh, had said on Monday that the four arrested persons were PFI members who had instigated communal violence through social media and other means over the Hathras tragedy. “The police arrested four members of the PFI from the Manth toll booth in Mathura district while they were on their way to Hathras from Delhi. They are involved in hatching a conspiracy to instigate communal and casteist violence,” Kumar had said. However, after the KUWJ said on Tuesday that Kappan was a journalist, Mathura rural police superintendent Shirish Chandra accepted that this could be true. “We have seized their mobiles and laptops and are investigating their role. We have recovered some dubious literature from them. But we have also come to know that one of them is a journalist,” Chandra said. He said the four had been booked under Section 151 of the Code of Criminal Procedure. The section allows “a police officer knowing of a design to commit any cognisable offence may arrest, without orders from a magistrate and without a warrant, the person so designing, if it appears to such officer that the commission of the offence cannot be otherwise prevented”. Earlier in the day, KUWJ president Miji Jose wrote to Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath mentioning that Kappan was the union’s Delhi unit secretary. According to Jose, Kappan has worked for several media houses and is currently associated with a news website. He was going to Hathras to cover the gang rape and murder of the 19-year-old Dalit teen and meet her family. The Uttar Pradesh government has dealt with protests against the atrocity and the police’s mishandling of the case with an iron hand, with cops assaulting politicians and civilians alike and also allegedly harassing the victim’s relatives and showing extreme insensitivity by burning her body after locking up her parents. “Our efforts and the efforts by some advocates based in Delhi to contact him (Kappan) were not successful…. Kappan was trying to do his duty as a reporter. We urge you to get him released at the earliest,” Jose wrote in the letter to Adityanath, whose police had also stopped the media from covering the Hathras crime for days. Jose said in a text message to The Telegraph: “Spoke to SP Rural, Mathura Shirish Chandra. He said (Kappan) charged only under 151 CrPC. No other charge. Bail can be taken from concerned Sub Divisional Magistrate’s court.” In its plea to the Supreme Court, the KUWJ has stated that the arrest had been made in violation of the mandatory guidelines laid down by the apex court and with the sole intention of obstructing the discharge of duty by a journalist. The petition alleged that Kappan’s family and colleagues had not been informed of the arrest. “The ultimate test of democracy lies in the ‘freedom of speech and expression’. The media is the breath of democracy. Denial of access of the journalists to the place of news seriously connected with the dignified life of citizens for reporting is a gross violation of Article 14 (right to equality), 19(1)(g) (free speech) and Article 21 (life and liberty) of the Constitution,” the petition filed through advocate Shweta Garg stated. “The present writ petition is confined to facilitate a dignified democratic working atmosphere according to the letter and spirit and philosophy of the Constitution of India, for the members of the petitioner who are all working journalists, including access to Hathras and for the immediate release of Mr Sidhique Kappan, a journalist with more than 10 years’ experience, presently working with the news portal www.azhimukham.com, and member of the petitioner union,” the petition, which is yet to be listed for formal hearing, added. The PFI has denied the allegations levelled against the outfit and its arrested members. Anis Ahmed, the PFI general secretary, said in a video message: “We can see that the police and the government are spreading the rumour after the arrest of those four that the PFI is instigating communal and casteist violence. It is an unfounded and childish allegation. It makes clear that the government of UP is diverting the focus from the real issue.” Ahmed said two of the four arrested persons — Atiq-ur-Rahman and Mohammad Alam — were national and state leaders of the Campus Front of India, a students’ organisation affiliated to the PFI. Anis Ahmed said Kappan was a journalist, and did not refer to Masood Ahmad at all. A source claimed that Masood was a student of Jamia Millia Islamia university. “The question arises whether an intention to meet the family members of the victim is a crime. It is clear that the UP government is dragging the name of the PFI into this to hide its failed law-and-order machinery and to save itself from the anger of the people, which is visible across UP and India,” Anis Ahmed said. “They (the state government) are saying that a conspiracy is going on to malign the image of UP and Yogi. It is public knowledge that the Yogi government’s image is already very poor across the world. So, making an allegation against the PFI is baseless. The PFI condemns the arrest as it is the peoples’ democratic right to meet anybody and protest,” he added. “The PFI condemns the action and demands the immediate release of the journalist and the others.” Mohammad Shamoon, a PFI spokesperson, told this newspaper that they would weigh legal options if the four were not released soon. Bahujan Samaj Party chief and former chief minister Mayawati ridiculed the Uttar Pradesh government and wondered whether the allegation that Opposition parties were instigating casteist and communal strife over the Hathras tragedy was “genuine or political manoeuvring”. “Time will tell whether the allegation is genuine or is political manoeuvring. The government should focus on ensuring justice to the family of the Hathras victim,” Mayawati said. Uttar Pradesh Congress chief Ajay Kumar Lallu said: “We have a communal government in UP that is trying to protect the criminals.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-627
07-10-2020||India||City link to Nobel winner   ||Amalkumar Raychaudhuri, a young teacher at Calcutta’s Ashutosh College in 1955, had developed a mathematical formulation that served as an elegant basis for the research by British physicist Roger Penrose a decade later that brought him the Nobel Prize on Tuesday. The Calcutta physicist’s formulation, known as the Raychaudhuri equation, sought to quantify certain but tricky aspects of geometry with widespread use in Albert Einstein’s general theory of relativity, essentially a geometric description of distortions and bends in space and time. Penrose teamed up with the celebrated late British physicist Stephen Hawking and used the Raychaudhuri equation for a mathematical description of black holes — objects with such intense gravitational pulls that not even light escapes them — and singularities, extreme situations where laws of nature break down. It is for these singularity theorems that the Nobel committee awarded Penrose the prize, citing that he showed that “…at their heart, black holes hide a singularity in which all known laws of nature cease”. Without Raychaudhuri’s formalism, and Hawking’s early work connecting it to black holes, this work of Penrose may have not happened at all. When I was a student at Oxford in the mid-eighties, Penrose and Hawking had still been working on some aspects of these ideas. Penrose, as a mathematics professor, had also been working on various other forms of mathematics. I once knocked on the door of Penrose, together with one of his students, to ask whether I could attend his course on Spinors, the theory of which he was then developing. He had company, but in addition to saying yes, he asked where I was from. When I mentioned I had come from Presidency College in Calcutta, he asked whether I was related to THE Raychaudhuri. I nodded, and said that while he was no relation, he was of course the head of my undergraduate department, and that Amalkumar Raychaudhuri had indeed taught us mathematical physics in the first year, and electromagnetism in the second. On the side, he had taught us general relativity, which wasn’t in our syllabus. The other person in the room, who introduced himself as Stephen Hawking (in his own voice still), said that I had been fortunate to have been taught by AKR himself, and that they hoped to meet him one day. Later on, of course, as a PhD student in Cambridge, I attended several courses given by Hawking, and I continued to meet Penrose, including several times in Pune. Lord Martin Rees, another of my gurus from Cambridge, has rightly said today: “There would be a consensus that Penrose and Hawking have done more than anyone else since Einstein to deepen our knowledge of gravity. Sadly, this Nobel award was too much delayed to allow Hawking to share the credit.” Somak Raychaudhury is the director of the Inter-University Centre for Astronomy and Astrophysics, Pune||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-627
07-10-2020||India||You don’t have to be PM to be a leader||Saturday: Prime Minister Narendra Modi takes a ride in the mint-fresh Atal Tunnel in Rohtang, igniting possibly the biggest online manhunt in recent memory to find out who he was waving at in what looked like an empty passageway. The same day, a policeman grabs Priyanka Gandhi Vadra by her kurta, and the following day, Noida police apologise to her. In between, the manners nannies on social media cock their ears and catch an “untimely” giggle from inside the car that was ferrying Priyanka and Rahul Gandhi to the home of the brutalised and murdered girl at Hathras in Uttar Pradesh. Sunday: Rahul takes a tractor ride in Punjab as part of the farm law protests, prompting a hawk-eyed Smriti Irani to ridicule him as a “VIP kisan” who “uses a sofa to sit on a tractor”. Tuesday: If the entire institutional architecture is captured, then to say that the Opposition is weak…. That’s not really a correct statement. Give me a free press, give me institutions that are free and the government will not last, says Rahul. Under the radar and away from the ruthless scrutiny usually reserved for those in power in many parts of the world but not in India, others have been spotting in these very same events something that has largely been missed or deliberately ignored by a large section of the mainstream media in the country. These few, perhaps very few, band of brothers, probably unknown to one another, are saying that what they have seen over the weekend is making them want to believe in Rahul Gandhi, who the Right wing goes out of its way to portray as a loser and worse. Some have been moved enough to write down their thoughts in black and white or lend their voice to such sentiments. What is remarkable is that there is no general election in sight, there is no one talking about the possibility of any change of guard in the next four years and there is still no pronounced articulation that the majority of Indians want any change. No one seems to be more aware of the ground reality than these admirers whose feet appear to be firmly planted on the ground. “Now it does not matter to me whether the INC (the Congress) forms any government or not, whether Rahul Gandhi becomes Prime Minister or not. As long as he is in the public domain fighting for the common Indian, it’s enough. My country will still have hope, humanity and a future,” wrote a Twitter user with the handle Solitary Shadow and who describes himself or herself as “in a desolate world, a lone soul”. The Twitter user says the picture of Rahul, hand on the knee of a stricken relative of the Hathras victim and head bowed, changed everything for a person who never followed politics. “This was an image which shook me to the core,” the tweeter writes. “Whether the whole event was politically motivated or a photo opportunity…, I no longer care.” The person adds: “But for me, this was the image of just not that day, but of a lifetime. "This is a man sitting in front of the father of a helpless girl, brutally raped, illegally burned, denied not just justice but also dignity, even in death. "This is a man burdened with guilt of all humanity, shouting silently with his body posture for not being able to save her. "This is a man asking for forgiveness from the father subjected to such a huge loss, injustice and torture… without uttering a single word. "…All his actions now reveal deeper meanings and the course he's charted becomes clear." The tweeter then says it does not matter whether Rahul becomes Prime Minister and concludes: "And so, I turned into a believer." Indignant Right-wingers are certain to claim such tweeters are paid lackeys or stooges. But the fact remains that rarely has such words been written about an Opposition leader who does not seem any closer to power than he was six years ago. Cut to Kerala in the south, where a community leader penned a note on what it meant for the country when Rahul was roughed up and pushed down on the Delhi-Uttar Pradesh border on Thursday. As MP, Rahul represents Kerala's Wayanad. "Fascist police shoved and pushed down not just a man called Rahul but the psyche of democratic India that questions injustice," wrote Basheer Faizy Deshamangalam, 42, chairman of Maneesha, the cultural wing of Samastha Kerala Jamiyathul Ulama, an influential Sunni body. "This is not a political analysis to gauge the sincerity behind that effort. But, in the darkness, it is a silver lining that this man has become at least a symbol of those embracing marginalised lives. That young, sobbing Rahul who witnessed the passing of his grandmother and father has now grown as tall as our expectations," he wrote on Facebook. Deshamangalam later told The Telegraph that he was touched by the manner in which Rahul, accompanied by Priyanka, defied the odds and ensured that they visited the Hathras family. "The whole thing might backfire on him politically since UP and the rest of the northern belt are dominated by upper-caste politics. Even then, he took it up as a humanitarian issue," said Deshamangalam, who often comments on issues related to communal harmony. Deshamangalam added in his note: "When Fascism dances without a care, this young man symbolises hope. At least let the citizens glimpse in that hope the promised dawn." The note points out that "Rahul has been the butt of a lot of ridicule, then as well as now". But "those who joined the chorus did not realise how dangerous a game they had become a part of." The note does not lose sight of what many feel are Congress home truths. "You soldier on, more or less like the commander of a one-man army. It cannot be denied that those willing to fight by your side are not numerous. Even if you lay bleeding in the battlefield, your defeat was an honourable one," Deshamangalam writes. Asked about this, he said: "I regret to say that many in the Congress have not kept pace with Rahul Gandhi. I am afraid Rahul is riding the turbulent waves without much support from his own party. The Congress didn't even mount a decent protest in Kerala after Rahul was pushed down by UP policemen." "The Congress has indeed made mistakes. But please do not destroy our last hope by piling relentlessly on his shoulders the baggage of mistakes. Not because he is perfect but because he is the best possible in India, democratic India should step forward to strengthen his arms and fight the battle led by him," Deshamangalam wrote. The post was quickly converted into a YouTube video narration, albeit without the knowledge of its author. Shihab Faizi, who recently graduated from an Arabic college in Kerala, lent his moving voice and soothing tone to narrate the Facebook post by Deshamangalam "since I thought it needed to reach many more". "I was more than willing to lend my voice when my friend Mohammed (who runs a YouTube channel named Hanan Media) asked me to. At least, that way we did our bit to make it more popular," Faizi told this newspaper. On Tuesday, Rahul himself explained why he thinks he is often at the receiving end. Asked why Punjabis should trust him, Rahul, who is leading a protest against the farm laws, said: "Look at my actions, you will see that I am a person who, when I see some injustice is done, I feel for that person instinctively. If you see one strong man beating a weak man, automatically I am on the side of the weak. In fact, this is why I get beaten up so much in politics. I am also thinking to myself, why. But I have that inside me. "If I feel injustice is being done to Punjab I will stand for Punjab, no matter what. If I feel injustice is being done to a Dalit girl in UP, I will go there, I will take two-three lathis, no problem. That is my nature, that is what I have been taught. I don't know any other way."||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-627
07-10-2020||India||BJP tries to pacify Nitish Kumar||The BJP queered the pitch for ally Lok Janshakti Party on Tuesday by asserting that only those parties which accept the leadership of chief minister Nitish Kumar can stay in the National Democratic Alliance (NDA) in Bihar. Senior leaders of the BJP also revealed a plan to write to the Election Commission to ensure that only NDA members could use the picture of Prime Minister Narendra Modi while campaigning for the Assembly elections. However, apart from issuing the threat, the party that leads the NDA government at the Centre in which LJP leader Ram Vilas Paswan is a minister, stopped short of criticising his son Chirag, who is on a warpath with Nitish. Neither did the BJP talk about any punitive action against the LJP, adding more to the prevailing confusion and lending credence to some secret pact between the two parties to undermine Nitish. The BJP iterated an unbreakable alliance with Nitish’s Janata Dal United (JDU) and contended that he was the chief ministerial candidate irrespective of the poll results. Senior BJP leader and deputy chief minister Sushil Kumar Modi declared that there were “no ifs and buts” about it. “Our alliance (BJP-JDU) is unbreakable. We are contesting the polls together. Nitish will be the chief minister irrespective of which party wins more seats or less. Our leaders Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Amit Shah have made their stand on Nitish clear at least a dozen times,” Sushil said. Nitish declared that he did not pay attention to undue criticism by others and that people had freedom to speak. “Nitish was angry over the recent developments. He might have refused to come to the announcement of the seat-sharing deal. Our leaders had to assure him that they would clarify on the situation and the matter was diffused,” a senior BJP leader said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-627
07-10-2020||India||Grief pours for Mulayam after namesake dies||Tweets from the Samajwadi Party’s official handle announcing the death of a namesake of Mulayam Singh Yadav without properly clarifying the identity fuelled rumours that the Uttar Pradesh stalwart and former chief minister had passed away, triggering a blizzard of condolence messages and even a Wikipedia update. On Monday afternoon, after many hours of confusion, former chief minister Mulayam’s daughter-in-law cleared the air by saying that the leader was alive and healthy. “By the grace of god, our affectionate Netaji, Mulayam Singh Yadav, is healthy,” Aparna tweeted at 1.10pm. Mulayam, 80, is said to be ailing for some time because of complications arising out of a urinary tract infection. He is reported to be at home. Around 9pm on Sunday, the official Twitter handle of the Samajwadi Party had tweeted: “Veteran Samajwadi Party leader and Member of Legislative Council Mulayam Singh Yadav has passed away. Mulayam, 92, breathed his last at his native village in Uttar Pradesh’s Auraiya district around 9pm on Saturday. His last rites were performed on Sunday.” The social media handlers of the party, however, appeared oblivious to the potential of such a message being misunderstood, given that the leader who had died shared his name with the Samajwadi Party founder and three-time chief minister. Also, rumours had already been rife after a private individual had uploaded a similar message thin on specifics on Sunday. Soon after the Samajwadi Party’s, social media users and former chief minister Mulayam’s supporters began paying tribute to him on Twitter and Facebook. Wikipedia, where users can update information, for a brief period mentioned the veteran leader’s death day as October 3, 2020. However, the social media accounts of the Samajwadi Party made no attempt to clear the air. Another message posted on the party’s official Twitter handle at 3.53pm on Monday read: “Senior Samajwadi leader of Auraiya and former MLC Sri Mulayam Singh Yadav has died. Condolence to the bereaved family. May God give peace to the departed soul and strength to the family.” Yet another message, at 5.19pm, said: “Samajwadi party chief Akhilesh Yadav has offered his condolences on the demise of Mulayam Singh Yadav, who breathed his last in his ancestral village.” Akhilesh is the son of Samajwadi founder Mulayam, who had also been the country’s defence minister in the United Front government from 1996 to 1998. Incidentally, the Mulayam who passed away had been close to former chief minister Mulayam, the Mainpuri MP who traces his roots to Etawah. The Samajwadi messages also erred in its mention of the deceased Mulayam’s constitutional designation — he was a former MLC.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-627
07-10-2020||India||Sikkim sticks to tourism unlock||The Sikkim government has decided to go ahead with the unlocking of tourism in the state from October 10 despite a bar on the entry of tourists imposed by the local bodies of many popular destinations like Lachung in North Sikkim. Kapil Meena, the director-cum-additional secretary of Sikkim’s tourism and civil aviation department, said the first phase of unlocking would commence from October 10 as announced earlier. “The tourism sector in Sikkim will reopen from October 10. The date is final and decided. No changes in the date. Plus the guidelines have been finalised,” he said. In the first phase, only domestic tourists and foreigners residing in the country would be allowed to enter Sikkim. “The foreigners will have to have valid documents. They must have valid visas and inner-line permits. If they have proper documents and are residing within India, and not coming from other countries, they would be allowed to visit Sikkim,” Meena said. Over 14 lakh domestic tourists and nearly 1.5 lakh foreign tourists had visited the Himalayan state in 2019, which is about two-and-a-half times more than the close to seven lakh population of Sikkim. Sikkim was the first state in the country to shut down tourism completely in the wake of the novel coronavirus outbreak. It had barred the entry of foreign tourists on March 5 and domestic visitors on March 17. It had also restricted the inter-state movement of people before lifting the bar from October 1. Unlike in the past, tourists cannot enter the state at random. They must first register online with the Sikkim tourism department and also must have tested negative for Covid-19 at least 72 hours before setting foot on the state’s soil. “Once a tourist register’s on the web portal, a travel card will be generated. This travel card will be like an identification document. The cards will have to be shown at the check-posts and even hotels,” he said. According to guidelines, hotels, lodges and homestays would also have to register with the tourism department. “Only those hotels and other accommodation units that have registered on the tourism website will be allowed to operate. This will help the tourism department in monitoring the arrival and movements of tourists,” said Meena. The tourism official also said over 1,100 hotels and about 50 tourists had already registered with the department till Tuesday afternoon. Tourists wouldn’t, however, be allowed to visit many hotspots, including Lachung in North Sikkim and Yuksom in West Sikkim, since local bodies had imposed a ban on the entry of any visitor for various lengths of time because of Covid-19 fears.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-627
07-10-2020||India||Cry to reopen Puri temple  ||A section of servitors of the 12th Century Shree Jagannath Temple in Puri on Tuesday demonstrated before the shrine demanding its reopening for the general public. They said that closure of the temple in the wake of corona pandemic has ruined them financially and they were facing a livelihood problem. “Unlock process has already started in the country and many religious institutions have been  opened. Then why the delay in reopening this temple? Many servitors are struggling to arrange two square meals a day. They also have medical expenses. How will we survive if the temple remains closed?” said senior servitor Damodar Mahasaura. On being pointed out that the temple was  giving them a monthly allowance of Rs 5000, Mahasaura said: “How can one run a family on  Rs 5000?   The families of servitors depend on the donations of devotees. If they don’t come, we will not be able to sustain our families.” The servitors demanded that devotees should be allowed into the shrine with strict adherence to the Covid guidelines. “Only 50 devotees should be allowed at a time into the temple. They should be asked to go in a queue maintaining required physical distance,” he said. However, several servitors opposed the idea of opening  the temple. “We have lost around 8 servitors. More than 600 servitors are in home isolation. The corona pandemic is at its peak. In winter, the situation may get worse. We should not take any risk,” a senior servitor told The Telegraph. “The administration is not in favour of opening of the temple till the end of November. According to government directives the temple will remain closed till October 31,” said a senior official of the temple.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-627
