08-10-2020||India||Letter by Hathras accused goes viral||The four accused in an alleged gang-rape reported from Hathras in Uttar Pradesh have written a letter to the superintendent of police here, claiming that they are innocent and have been falsely implicated in the matter. The letter, written from the Aligarh district jail, where the four are currently lodged, has gone viral on social media. In the letter, the main accused, Sandeep, has also stated that he was friends with the alleged gang-rape victim, due to which her mother and brother had thrashed the 19-year-old Dalit woman, leading to serious injuries that resulted in her death. Hathras SP Vineet Jaiswal has confirmed receiving the letter. “The four accused gave the letter to the Aligarh district jail superintendent and he sent it to me. I have received it and action in accordance with law would be taken,” he said. Besides the thumb impressions of the four accused in the case -- Sandeep, Luv Kush, Ravi and Ramu alias Ramkumar -- the letter, dated October 7, also has their names mentioned. It is addressed to the Hathras SP and has been written on behalf of the main accused, Sandeep. It has been stated in the letter that the woman and the main accused were from the same village, were friends and besides meeting in person, often used to talk to each other over the phone, but her family did not approve of their friendship. On the day of the alleged incident, Sandeep said he met the woman but her mother and brother, who were also there, asked him to leave, following which he immediately left for home. It was only later that he came to know from villagers that the mother and brother of the woman beat her up severely over their friendship, causing serious injuries that led to her death, the main accused has said in the letter. He has also stated that he never beat up or did anything wrong with the woman and her mother and brother had framed him and the three others and sent them to jail. The three other accused, including Ravi and Ramu who are his uncles, were sent to jail in this “false” case on different days, Sandeep has pointed out. The accused have claimed innocence and urged the SP to get the matter probed and ensure justice to them. The 19-year-old alleged gang-rape victim died at a Delhi hospital.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-623
08-10-2020||India||Union minister Ram Vilas Paswan dies days after surgery||Union minister Ram Vilas Paswan, who recently underwent a heart surgery, died on Thursday at a Delhi hospital where he was recuperating. The 74-year-old was undergoing treatment at the hospital, and had to undergo surgery "due to the situation that had suddenly emerged," his son Chirag Paswan had tweeted on Saturday, reported ndtv.com and agencies. "Papa… Now you are not in this world but I know you are always with me wherever you are. Miss you Papa," Chirag Paswan tweeted on Thursday evening. He shared an old photo of him and his father along with the tweet. A Dalit leader from Bihar, Ram Vilas Paswan was serving as the Union Minister of Food and Public Distribution in the Narendra Modi government. An eight-time Member of Parliament in the Lok Sabha, Paswan went to jail during Indira Gandhi's tenure when an emergency was imposed in the country. He began his political career as a member of the Samyukta Socialist Party and in 1969 became a member of the Bihar Legislative Assembly, reported The Indian Express. Paswan was elected to Lok Sabha for the first time in 1977 as a Janata Party member and was re-elected for five consecutive times from Hajipur constituency in Bihar. He had formed LJP in 2000 and joined Congress-led United Progressive Alliance in 2004. Paswan had served as a Union Minister under five prime ministers and his party has been a member of all national coalitions. He hailed from Shaharbanni Village in Khagaria District of Bihar. His son, Chirag Paswan currently heads the LJP. Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday condoled the passing away of Paswan, saying there is a void in the nation that will perhaps never be filled. Reacting to Paswan's demise, the Prime Minister said, "I am saddened beyond words. There is a void in our nation that will perhaps never be filled." "Shri Ram Vilas Paswan Ji's demise is a personal loss. I have lost a friend, valued colleague and someone who was extremely passionate to ensure every poor person leads a life of dignity," he said. Hailing the Lok Janshakti Party patron for his rise in politics through hard work and determination, Modi said as a young leader, Paswan resisted "tyranny and the assault on our democracy during the Emergency". "He was an outstanding Parliamentarian and Minister, making lasting contributions in several policy areas," Modi said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-624
08-10-2020||India||Aware about the fake news menace, steps in place to address it: Centre to HC||The Centre has told the Delhi High Court that it is aware of the dangers of fake news on social media platforms and rules have been framed under the Intermediaries Guidelines -- which regulate social media platforms -- to deal with the issue. The Ministry of Electronics and Information Technology (MEITY) also told the high court that any unlawful content on social media platforms like Facebook, Google and Twitter, is to be disabled by a court order, a government notification or by the websites' own grievance officers for violation of their policies or terms of use. The submissions have been made by the ministry in reply to the PIL by former RSS idealogue K N Govindacharya seeking directions to the Centre, Google, Facebook and Twitter to ensure the removal of fake news and hate speech circulated on these and other online platforms as well as disclosure of their designated officers in India. Govindacharya has also moved an application, through advocate Virag Gupta, seeking removal of illegal groups like 'bois locker room' from social media platforms for the safety and security of children in cyberspace. The ministry has said that according to the Intermediary Guidelines, grievance officers of the websites are bound to redress complaints within one month of receiving them. It has contended that in the present case the alleged unlawful content -- relating to 'bois locker room' -- would come under the guidelines for due diligence by an intermediary or social media platform. It further said that it has set up a statutory authority -- CERT-IN -- under the Information Technology Act responding to any cyber security incidents or breaches. On blocking access to any content or website, the ministry has said that such requests have to come through the designated nodal officers appointed for the purpose in each state and government department and no individual can directly ask for it. Govindacharya had earlier told the court that the presence of groups like 'bois locker room' indicate Facebook's "failure in tackling fake news, hate speech and illegal criminal content" on its social media platform. The submission was made in his reply to Facebook's claims in the high court that it has put in place measures like community standards, third party fact checkers, reporting tools and artificial intelligence to detect and prevent the spread of inappropriate or objectionable content like hate speech and fake news. Facebook had also said it cannot remove any allegedly illegal group, like the 'bois locker room', from its platform as removal of such accounts or blocking access to them came under the purview of the discretionary powers of the government according to the IT Act. It has contended that any "blanket" direction to social media platforms to remove such allegedly illegal groups would amount to interfering with the discretionary powers of the government. The tech company further said directing social media platforms to block "illegal groups" would require such companies, like Facebook, to first "determine whether a group is illegal which necessarily requires a judicial determination and also compels them to monitor and adjudicate the legality of every piece of content on their platforms".||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-624
08-10-2020||India||In Covid times, Long-distance emergency care helps save lives  ||It’s the ultimate form of tele-medicine. At the Springer Healthcare command centre in Gurgaon, doctors and nurses are gazing intently into their screens and watching over 600 ICU beds in far-flung corners of the country. They’re monitoring patients in real time, dealing with emergencies and handholding doctors on the spot in remote Madhya Pradesh districts like Neemuch and Guna, Ambikapur in Chhattisgarh and Maharashtra’s Aurangabad and Sholapur. Their instructions to local medical personnel can mean the difference between life and death for patients. Tele-medicine’s booming in the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic. And Springer Healthcare has also been pushed into the fast lane in the last six months. From 275 beds pre-Covid, it now has 600. They moved recently to a new district in Maharashtra, adding 40 more beds there – they’re in six districts in the state. In Haryana, where they moved in more recently, they oversee 100 beds in five districts.  “Requests keep pouring in,” says Sandeep Dewan, managing director of Springer Healthcare. It’s the same story at three-year-old Cloudphysician in Bangalore which is now being flooded by requests from hospitals wanting to click into their tele-ICU services. Cloudphysician had 150 beds in pre-Covid times but that number has shot up to 400 ever since the pandemic altered the way we live. It has been called in by the Maharashtra government which is desperately keen to get high-quality medical services to its smaller towns and rural areas in the wake of Covid-19. Cloudphysician is working with government hospitals handling Covid-19 patients in Sangli, Nashik and Osmanabad. Even before the pandemic it had been collaborating with a Pune hospital and another in Mumbai. In its home state of Karnataka, Cloudphysician is working in Bidar, Gulbarga and even three Bangalore hospitals. “When it comes to ICU facilities, even urban areas are underserved,” notes Dileep Raman, Cloudphysician’s director and co-founder. Seeing a patient on the screen isn’t the same as examining them in person. But India has poor medical facilities in the rural areas, is desperately short of ICU beds and most important of all, doesn’t have anywhere near enough critical care specialists or intensivists, who are crucial to ICU care. What’s more, even though they aren’t on the spot, tele-ICU doctors offer another advantage. Raman reckons that an intensivist in an ICU ward can handle about 10 patients. A tele-ICU intensivist, handholding junior doctors in a ward, can handle about 70-80 patients, he says. That’s why tele-ICU doctors can have an impact that’s out of proportion to their number. Cloudphysician has 14 doctors and 25 nurses and, in the last six months, says it has treated 1,400 Covid-19 patients who’ve been in hospital for 8,000 patient bed days. Springer reckons its before and after figures show how big a difference, tele-ICU facilities can make. Most crucially, there are the lives saved. Dewan says fatalities have decreased by 30 per cent to 40 per cent – and that’s just by supporting the junior doctors on the spot. Other positive statistics are that 40 per cent to 50 per cent of patients are sent back to the wards more quickly. Also, using tele-ICU facilities has resulted in reducing referrals to larger cities by 30 per cent to 40 per cent. How does it all work? First there’s a hi-definition video-camera and an audio link that allows the doctors and nurses on both sides to talk to each other. Even more crucially, patient data – everything from EGC results and oxygen levels to more detailed information — is then transmitted back to the command centre in real time on the Internet. At the command centre, a team of doctors and critical care nurses are keeping a constant watch on patient readings. Dewan says that in an ICU, the nurses who are always present and interacting with the patients, are just as crucial as the doctors. “The nurse is the first responder and they handhold the nurses at the smaller hospitals,” says Dewan. He adds: “The ICU outcome is very dependent on good nurses. We believe the nurses run ICUs. They are there all the time.” Springer has a team of 30 critical care nurses. Springer’s tele-ICU unit has been in action for the last decade, growing gradually. But its growth has speeded up hugely after Covid-19 made online medical consultations a regular way of life and governments had to expand the number of ICU beds even in the most remote areas. About 350 of its beds are now dedicated to Covid-19 patients and 250 to non-Covid ones. Dewan stresses that Springer's Covid-19 work with government hospitals is being done free of cost and the expenses are being covered by grants from foundations and NGOs. The pandemic has forced governments to move at a much faster speed than they normally would have to institute télé-medicine. It has created several 50-bed units and in some very distant Madhya Pradesh tribal areas it has even opened small five-to-six bed units. These are staffed by young MBBS and, in one or two cases, even Ayush doctors. Raman says it took him and co-founder Dhruv Joshi a full two years of travelling to ICUs around the country to figure out exactly what support such wards needed. He and Joshi had returned from the US with the idea of starting a tele-ICU unit, but quickly found that the imported systems from giants like GE and Philips simply wouldn’t work in this country because they were designed for foreign hospitals which worked under entirely different conditions. Says Raman: “It was about frugal innovation. We had to design from scratch. We needed a system designed by Indian doctors for Indian doctors.” Raman and his partner Joshi put in all the initial capital themselves after returning from the US where they had met and worked for several years. In the last six months, they’ve received additional funding. Cloudphysician started out by working with four private hospitals in Motihari, Muzaffarpur, Chapra and Siwan. Raman says he went to Bihar about 12 times to get the systems working just right. To make it all run smoothly “we need a robust Internet and reliable power connections,” he says. But lately, the company has gone into fast forward mode. It went live in Gulbarga in just 11 days and it took only 15 days to rev into action in Nashik. As Nashik was launched post-Covid, the in-house team couldn’t travel across state borders so it dealt with a local tech partner. As well as its Covid beds Cloudphysician now has 170 non-Covid beds. Training the physician on the ground is also crucial for tele-ICUs to be effective. Both Springer and Cloudphysician have training arms. And both companies insist that their mission is not about size or quick growth. Says Raman: “Healthcare is not a quick-growth industry. It’s more about taking care of patients. Growth is not what has been driving us. We want to help as many patients as we can.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-624
08-10-2020||India||Freedom of speech and expression misapplied the most lately, observes SC||The Supreme Court Thursday said freedom of speech and expression is the most abused right in recent times. A bench headed by Chief Justice S A Bobde, which was hearing pleas of Jamiat Ulama I Hind and others alleging that a section of media was spreading communal hatred over Tablighi Jamaat congregation during the onset of Covid-19 pandemic, pulled up the Centre for its "evasive" and "brazen" affidavit on the issue. Freedom of speech and expression is the most abused right in recent times, the apex court said. The bench observed this when senior advocate Dushyant Dave, appearing for Jamaat, said the Centre in its affidavit has stated that petitioners are trying to muzzle freedom of speech and expression. To this, the bench said, They are free to make any averment in their affidavit, like you are free to make any argument you want. The bench was irked over the fact that instead of secretary of the Information and Broadcasting Ministry, an additional secretary filed the affidavit which contained unnecessary and nonsensical averments with regard to media reporting in Tablighi Jamaat issue. You cannot treat this court the way you are doing in this case, said the bench, also comprising Justices A S Bopanna and V Ramasubramanian. The apex court sought an affidavit from the I&B secretary with details of steps taken in the past to stop motivated media reporting in such cases.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-624
08-10-2020||India||Direct phase three vaccine trial nixed ||An Indian drug regulatory panel has rejected a proposal for a direct large-scale phase 3 clinical trial of a Russian candidate vaccine against the coronavirus disease in India and sought an additional preceding phase 2 trial. The expert panel examining proposals relating to Covid-19 for the Central Drugs Standards Control Organisation has asked the Hyderabad-based Dr Reddy’s Laboratories to submit a proposal for a phase 2/3 clinical trial of the candidate vaccine Sputnik V. Dr Reddy’s had submitted to the regulatory body a phase 3 trial protocol along with overseas data from phase 1 and phase 2 studies and non-clinical toxicity data. The company in partnership with the Russia Direct Investment Fund (RDIF), the Russian government’s sovereign fund, had last month signalled their intention to propose a phase 3 trial of Sputnik V in India. Neither Dr Reddy’s nor the RDIF responded to The Telegraph’s queries on the panel’s decisions. A phase 3 trial is typically a large-scale exercise in which the vaccine candidate is given to several thousands of volunteers to determine its protective efficacy. Under standard procedures, a phase 1 trial examining safety and a phase 2 trial examining the immunogenicity need to precede a phase 3 trial. Russian authorities have said phase 1 and phase 2 trials of Sputnik V in that country have already shown the candidate to be safe and immunogenic and have launched a phase 3 trial there on around 40,000 volunteers. But the CDSCO panel has noted that the safety and immunogenicity data in the overseas phases 1 and 2 studies are “small” and that there is no data available on Indian volunteers. Russian researchers had conducted phases 1 and 2 trials of the Sputnik V candidate in 76 volunteers between June 18 and August 3 and reported that it had a good safety profile and generated strong immune responses in the recipients. The panel has recommended that Dr Reddy’s should follow the regulatory requirements and conduct phase 2/3 clinical trial in India with proper monitoring for immune responses. The panel has asked the company to submit a protocol for such a trial. Dr Reddy’s and the RDIF had also announced last month that the RDIF would supply 100 million doses of the vaccine starting late 2020 but subject to successful completion of trials, registration and approval by the regulatory authority. Independent vaccine researchers have said a scientific paper published by the Russian researchers with the vaccine data looks impressive but the actual proof of protection from the virus can only come from a phase 3 trial. Scientists say the timeline for phase 3 would depend on how soon the company can submit the proposal and conduct phase 2/3. India is already assessing two homegrown vaccine candidates — one from the Hyderabad-based Bharat Biotech and the other from the Ahmedabad-based Zydus Cadila — currently in phase 2 trials and the Oxford-made candidate in phase 2 and 3 trials. The trials on the homegrown vaccines started in July and scientists and regulators are currently awaiting the outcomes of those safety and efficacy studies.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-624
08-10-2020||India||Journalist booked for sedition||A journalist and three others arrested while on their way to Hathras to meet the family of the brutalised and murdered Dalit teen were on Wednesday booked for sedition by Uttar Pradesh police. Sidhique Kappan, a Delhi-based journalist, Popular Front of India (PFI) leaders Atiq-ur-Rahman and Mohammad Alam, and student Masood Ahmad have been sent to 14 days’ judicial custody by a Mathura court. Pratibha Singh, a lawyer representing Kappan in the Mathura court, told The Telegraph over the phone: “All four have now been booked for sedition, besides rioting and using information technology to create unrest. They have been sent to jail for 14 days.” Wills Mathew, an advocate who moved a habeas corpus petition in the Supreme Court on Tuesday on behalf of a Kerala-based journalists’ union against Kappan’s arrest, told this newspaper that all four had been booked for sedition under IPC Section 124A. The sedition charge entails a maximum punishment of life in jail and a minimum of three years’ imprisonment. Kappan and the others had initially been held under CrPC Section 151, which provides for preventive detention. The section says “a police officer knowing of a design to commit any cognisable offence may arrest, without orders from a magistrate and without a warrant, the person so designing, if it appears to such officer that the commission of the offence cannot be otherwise prevented”. However, on Wednesday morning a sub-inspector, Prabal Pratap Singh, filed a new complaint under the sedition law against all four with Manth police station in Mathura. Bhim Singh Jawala, the officer in charge of the police station, was made the inquiry officer. Sources said the complainant had stated that an “objectionable” pamphlet had been seized from the arrested persons. Officer Singh was quoted as saying that the pamphlet was on the Hathras victim and had the title “Main Bharat ki beti nahin hun (I am not the daughter of India)”. At Kappan’s home in Kerala’s Malappuram district, his wife Raihanath said he was a “soft-spoken” and “mild-mannered” man with no links to any political outfit. Uttar Pradesh police maintain that Kappan is associated with the PFI, a controversial Muslim Right-wing outfit on whom the state government had earlier sought a ban. The PFI, however, has said Kappan is not a member. The Yogi Adityanath government has of late taken a liking to the sedition charge. Earlier this year, it had booked many anti-CAA protesters for sedition. Although the charge failed to hold in court in most cases, the BJP government did score political points by portraying those raising their voice as enemies of the State. PFI general secretary Anis Ahmed said in a statement on Wednesday: “The new rounds of allegations against the Popular Front are nothing but an attempt by the Uttar Pradesh government to divert attention from its failure to handle the Hathras rape case. UP under Yogi has become a jungle raj where law and order has completely collapsed.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-624
08-10-2020||India||Drug charges on Rhea collapse in court ||Actress Rhea Chakraborty on Wednesday walked free after spending nearly a month in Mumbai’s Byculla jail, with Bombay High Court rejecting the contention of the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) that she had financed her late boyfriend and actor Sushant Singh Rajput’s drug addiction. The court said Rhea “is not part of the chain of drug dealers”. A section of TV channels had picked on Rhea and run the most vicious slander campaign against any private individual in the propaganda history of the country in what was seen as an establishment-blessed diversionary tactic amid multiples crises in the country and ahead of the Bihar elections. After the bail order, actor-director Farhan Akhtar tweeted: “Any shrill anchors apologising for the hell they put Rhea Chakraborty and her family through? Didn’t think so. But watch them shift the goalpost now.” By nightfall, at least one channel had zeroed in on the “Hathras conspiracy”. The NCB is a central agency that reports to the Union home ministry. While granting Rhea bail with strict conditions, the court also dismissed the NCB’s argument that errant celebrities should be treated harshly to set an example before the young. “Everybody is equal before law. No celebrity or role model enjoys any special privilege before the court of law. Similarly, such a person also does not incur any special liability when he faces law in the courts,” Justice Sarang Kotwal said. The judge said: “Each case will have to be decided on its own merits irrespective of the status of the accused.” The court rejected the bail plea of Rhea’s brother Showik Chakraborty, saying he “appears to be a part of the (drugs) chain” rather than being a consumer or an end-purchaser. It, however, said Rhea “is not part of the chain of drug dealers” and “has not forwarded the drugs allegedly procured by her to somebody else to earn monetary or other benefits”. The court imposed a bond of Rs 1 lakh on Rhea and asked her to mark her presence at the nearest police station daily for 10 days and before the NCB on the first day of every month for six months. She must hand over her passport and cannot travel abroad without the court’s permission. To leave Mumbai she would need the NCB’s permission and must provide the agency with her travel itinerary. Rhea’s counsel Satish Maneshinde said: “The arrest and custody of Rhea was totally unwarranted and beyond the reach of law. The hounding and witch-hunt by three central agencies — the CBI, ED and the NCB — should come to an end.” The CBI is probing whether Sushant, found dead in his Mumbai apartment on June 14, committed suicide or was murdered; the NCB is investigating illegal supply of drugs to him by his associates; and the Enforcement Directorate is looking into allegations that Rhea siphoned money off Sushant’s bank accounts. The NCB had arrested Rhea on September 8, accusing her of being “an active member of a drug syndicate”, financing Sushant’s drug habit and “harbouring” him, a drug offender. The following are the reasons bail was granted and the response from legal experts: ⚫ The NCB failed to prove the seizure of any drugs from Rhea’s possession or from Sushant’s, former additional solicitor-general and senior criminal lawyer Siddharth Luthra told The Telegraph later. ⚫ Even if Rhea had, as alleged, spent money to procure drugs for Sushant, this did not mean that “she had financed illicit traffic”, the court said. ⚫ She was not “part of the chain of drug dealers” and “has not forwarded the drugs allegedly procured by her to somebody else to earn monetary or other benefits”, the court said. ⚫ Nor does the charge of “harbouring” drug offenders apply to Rhea since Sushant did not fear arrest, the court said. ⚫ The court was “satisfied that there are reasonable grounds for believing that the applicant (Rhea) is not guilty of” any offence “involving commercial quantity” of drugs. “The material at the highest shows that she has committed an offence involving contraband, but the crucial element of incurring rigours of Section 37 (for grant of bail) in respect of commercial quantity is missing,” the court said. ⚫ “Since she has no criminal antecedents, there are reasonable grounds for believing that she is not likely to commit any offence while on bail,” the court said. Later, eminent criminal lawyer and former additional solicitor-general K.V. Viswanathan told this newspaper: “The findings leave one to wonder where was the justification for arrest at all.” Luthra said Section 27A of the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act puts a “very heavy onus on the accused because it is for the accused to prove his or her innocence”, and that Rhea had succeeded in doing so before the court.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-624
08-10-2020||India||CM buys peace in AIADMK||The ruling AIADMK in Tamil Nadu on Wednesday named incumbent Edappadi K. Palaniswami as its chief minister candidate for the May 2021 Assembly elections in a BJP-backed dual-leadership, power-sharing deal that ended a months-long cold war with deputy chief minister O. Panneerselvam. Amid speculation that Panneerselvam, a three-time chief minister hailing from the powerful OBC Thevar community, could rock the boat and reclaim the party’s leadership, a AIADMK meeting in Chennai on Wednesday averted a split by recognising Palaniswami’s “very hard work”. But this was not before Palaniswami, in a climb-down, agreed to constitute an 11-member steering committee of AIADMK seniors who would guide party affairs in the run-up to the polls. As part of the agreement, Panneerselvam will remain the party coordinator and treasurer, in effect the de facto AIADMK boss. Palaniswami will continue to be the AIADMK co-coordinator. The BJP, with which the AIADMK has an alliance at the Centre, had played a proactive role in 2017 in envisioning the dual-leadership formula after Panneerselvam fell out with Sasikala, a close confidante of former chief minister Jayalalithaa, over power sharing in the aftermath of Jayalalithaa’s death. Palaniswami took charge as chief minister on February 16, 2017, while Panneerselvam assumed a dominant role in the party along with being deputy chief minister. The same arrangement of Palaniswami heading the government and Panneerselvam helming the party will continue with minor modifications. However, Wednesday’s deal puts the seal on Palaniswami, an affable leader who has gained more popularity, to lead the government if the AIADMK returns to power. Sasikala, serving time in a Bangalore prison in a disproportionate assets case, had plunged the party into turmoil in mid-February 2017. Her nephew and MLA, T.T.V. Dhinakaran, later floated a new outfit called the AMMK in a bid to “recapture” the AIADMK and counter efforts to build a new unit sans Sasikala. Palaniswami, after greeting Panneerselvam at Wednesday’s meeting, made the first move by announcing the 11-member steering committee. It includes six Palaniswami supporters — ministers Dindigul Sreenivasan, P. Thangamani, S.P. Velumani, D. Jayakumar, C.Ve. Shanmugam and R. Kamaraj — and five Panneerselvam backers — J.C.T. Prabhakaran, former MPs Manoj Pandian and Gopalakrishna, organising secretary P. Mohan and MLA Pandian. In the packed hall, Panneerselvam then declared that keeping the interests of the party cadres and the people in focus, the AIADMK had unanimously decided that Palaniswami would be the chief ministerial candidate. “I am happy to have made this announcement and the Opposition’s dreams will not come true,” Panneerselvam told reporters later. Even as celebrations broke out in different parts of the state with the two leaders burying the hatchet, a source said the BJP high command had advised the two factions to close ranks and settle the issues amicably. Palaniswami’s insistence within the party that even Prime Minister Narendra Modi had “appreciated my performance”, including his handling of the Covid-19 crisis and attracting sizable foreign direct investment amid the economic gloom, is said to have found resonance. Simultaneously, Panneerselvam’s concerns over being sidelined have been addressed as of now. Both leaders, along with AIADMK functionaries, later paid homage at the memorials of MGR and Jayalalithaa on the Marina sands. Camping at his home turf of Theni in the past few days, Panneerselvam had hinted at “consolidating” the AIADMK’s Thevar support base, sparking speculation of another split in the party. He had also inspected land for installing a statue of the late Mookiah Thevar, a protege of U. Muthuramalinga Thevar, once a key national-level leader of the Forward Bloc who had been close to Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose. The Thevars, who have a martial background, were once the backbone of the Bloc in Tamil Nadu, but after the demise of Muthuramalinga Thevar and later Mookiah Thevar, factionalism weakened the party. Later, the DMK and the AIADMK took away a major chunk of the Thevar-Maravar vote-bank of the Bloc. That consolidation had been near-total under the leadership of M.G. Ramachandran, the AIADMK founder. Panneerselvam’s strong signal to revive that spirit had been taken as a hint of engineering a split in the party; but ground realities constrained him, more so because his son O.P. Raveendranath is the only AIADMK MP in the Lok Sabha. Modi had campaigned for Raveendranath in Theni. Wednesday’s peace deal evoked a sardonic response from the main Opposition parties in Tamil Nadu. “It is now easier for us to take on EPS (Palaniswami) in the polls because he has been anti-Tamil, giving up the state’s rights over issues like GST dues,” DMK MP T.K.S. Elangovan told The Telegraph, adding that the truce might not hold.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-624
08-10-2020||India||Opposition indispensable, not Shaheen||The Supreme Court on Wednesday disapproved of the Shaheen Bagh protests saying “demonstrations expressing dissent have to be in designated places alone” and that citizens’ fundamental rights are coexistent with duties, while also stressing governments’ need to tolerate opposition in a democracy. “In a democracy, the opposition is not only tolerated as constitutional but must be maintained because it is indispensable,” the apex court said quoting American writer Walter Lippmann. Hundreds of ordinary women, led by a band of grandmothers and some accompanying their young children, had blocked a road at Shaheen Bagh in New Delhi in a peaceful sit-in against the new citizenship matrix. They had resisted threats and abuse from ruling party politicians and firing by a youth to continue for over 100 days from mid-December till the lockdown, when most of the demonstrators left and the rest were thrown out by police. “The present case was not even one of protests taking place in an undesignated area, but was a blockage of a public way which caused grave inconvenience to commuters,” the bench of Justices Sanjay Kishan Kaul, Aniruddha Bose and Krishna Murari said. “We cannot accept the plea of the applicants that an indeterminable number of people can assemble whenever they choose to protest.” The judgment came on a batch of petitions that an advocate, Amit Sahni, and others had filed during the Shaheen Bagh protest seeking the removal of the protesters. “While appreciating the existence of the right to peaceful protest against a legislation (keeping in mind the words of Pulitzer Prize winner, Walter Lippmann, who said ‘In a democracy, the opposition is not only tolerated as constitutional, but must be maintained because it is indispensable’), we have to make it unequivocally clear that public ways and public spaces cannot be occupied in such a manner and that too indefinitely,” the judgment, written by Justice Kaul, said. “Democracy and dissent go hand in hand, but then the demonstrations expressing dissent have to be in designated places alone.” Dissent against colonial rule is different from dissent in a democracy, where rights come together with duties, the court said. “The erstwhile mode and manner of dissent against colonial rule cannot be equated with dissent in a self-ruled democracy. Our constitutional scheme comes with the right to protest and express dissent, but with an obligation towards certain duties,” the apex court said. It said Article 19 gave citizens the right to speak freely and assemble peacefully “and protest against the actions or inactions of the State”. “The same must be respected and encouraged by the State, for the strength of a democracy such as ours lies in the same. (However) these rights are subject to reasonable restrictions, which… pertain to the interests of the sovereignty and integrity of India and public order, and to the regulation by the concerned police authorities in this regard,” the court said. It cited its 2018 judgment in Mazdoor Kisan Shakti Sangathan vs Union of India that said each fundamental right must be balanced with every other contrasting right. The top court frowned on Delhi High Court’s failure to pass suitable orders when the petitioners had initially approached it, seeking the protesters’ removal. The high court had left the matter to the police’s discretion. “The high court should have monitored the matter rather than disposing of the writ petition and creating a fluid situation,” the apex court said. It referred to the Covid-19 pandemic as the “hand of God” that had caused the protest to end. “The hand of God subsequently intervened and overtook the situation as not only our country, but also the world grappled with the coronavirus pandemic,” it said. “Thus, really speaking, the reliefs in the present proceedings have worked themselves out.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-624
08-10-2020||India||Not meant to be ‘indefinite’||Participants in the largest continuous women-led stir at Shaheen Bagh against the new citizenship regime said the Supreme Court’s verdict on the protest was expected, but left key issues unresolved. In response to two pleas against the agitation that started in December and went on for more than 100 days, the Supreme Court in February had sent senior lawyers Sanjay Hegde and Sadhana Ramachandran as interlocutors to talk to the leaderless gathering about allowing traffic to pass through GD Birla Marg, which had been barricaded by both protesters and police. On Wednesday, the court ruled that public places cannot be occupied indefinitely and that protests cannot obstruct citizens. Shaheen Kausar of the Social Democratic Party of India, who was one of the organisers of the protest, had unsuccessfully tried to convince the crowd to remove obstacles placed on one side of the road and, after the announcement of the lockdown, call off the permanent sit-in. “I respect the court, and both the police and protesters must be praised for their efforts to prevent a second Jaffrabad (the place in northeast Delhi where communal riots broke out in February after mobs attacked women blocking the road to protest against the new law). Today, we can see that there are no answers to the biggest current questions on education, employment and peace. Protest was and is the last resort, and while sit-ins on roads are not new, it seems that only one community is the target of arrests and defamation,” she told The Telegraph. Ritu Kaushik, secretary of the Delhi unit of All India Mahila Sanskritik Sanghatan — the women’s wing of SUCI (Communist) — said  the verdict doesn’t surprise her. Kaushik often handled the mic on the Shaheen Bagh stage and had stuck it out until police cleared the area in March. “Neither are protests, even sit-ins, on roads a new thing, nor is the court’s response.” “Even during the Emergency, the point of view of the court gradually changed in the face of public protests. Today also, we continue to struggle in defence of the Constitution…. and will continue to do so by all means possible to resist the CAA and related laws,” she added. Mohammed Asif, who used to run the Fatima Sheikh-Savitri Phule Library under a bus stop near the protest site, said: “It was never indefinite. The protest was merely to be staged until the CAA was repealed. The question of moving to some other place like Jantar Mantar was debated when the interlocutors had visited. There are restrictions on the number of people and the timing of protests in Jantar Mantar.  There is no other place or park to protest in Shaheen Bagh or perhaps any other Muslim majority area in Delhi. The question people asked interlocutors was whether the press will cover us and the government even attempt to engage with us if our stir caused absolutely no inconvenience to anyone.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-624
08-10-2020||India||Yogi govt response weird, says Congress||The Congress on Wednesday expressed astonishment at the Yogi Adityanath government’s decision to invoke charges ranging from sedition to riot incitement against protesters against the Hathras atrocity, saying such a response to a rape-and-murder case had no parallel in India’s history. “The response of the Yogi government is unprecedented and totally weird. In other words, Orwellian and Kafkaesque,” Congress spokesperson Abhishek Singhvi said. “The FIRs against third parties (21) far outnumber the FIRs filed against the accused, with the charges ranging from hatching conspiracy to destabilise and derail the government (to plots to) trigger communal riots, create enmity among social groups and even sedition. Never saw such a reaction to a rape incident even from any other BJP government.” Singhvi added: “As if the rape and the burning of the body without the family’s consent were not bad enough, the government ordered a clampdown on the victim’s family and barred the media and those trying to meet them to express condolences. Can you imagine expressing condolences for the victim of a heinous crime attracting sedition charges? “The government also said a conspiracy to defame it had been hatched because UP was a model of good governance, because he (Adityanath) had cracked down on anti-CAA protesters. This would have been comical if it were not tragic. “It’s absurd that the chief minister is blaming the entire world to defend his failures. Instead of looking within, he brands everybody a conspirator.”Singhvi recalled how several BJP politicians had denied rape and alleged a plot to start caste wars. “What will the world think of us if they hear that a BJP (politician) said, ‘Why are these kinds of girls always found in sugarcane and millet fields, and not paddy or wheat fields?’,” he said. Asked about the government’s inaction against those who had supported the accused and warned Opposition politicians against visiting Hathras, Singhvi said: “If you are with them, nothing will happen to you; there are thousands of examples to show this over the last six years.” Congress spokespersons highlighted the inconsistencies and “lies” in the state government’s affidavit to the Supreme Court, where it has claimed the police cremated the victim with all the rituals and in the presence of her family. At a news conference in Lucknow, Mahila Congress chief Sushmita Dev said: “This is contempt of court; the government is lying on oath. The entire country has seen how the body was burnt using kerosene or diesel without the consent of the parents. The government said in the affidavit that the body was burnt following all the rituals.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-625
08-10-2020||India||Hathras malign attempt||An attempt has begun to tarnish the Hathras victim’s reputation, with senior police and administration officials meeting small groups of reporters since Tuesday evening to suggest the girl was in a relationship with one of the accused and her murder was a “love affair gone wrong”. Speaking off the record, these officials are claiming that call details of the gang-rape-and-murder victim’s brother — whose phone they say the girl regularly used — show 104 conversations with accused Sandeep Singh between October 2019 and March 2020. “Sandeep Singh had 104 phone conversations in six months with the girl, who was using her brother’s mobile phone. Sandeep made 42 calls and received 62 calls from her brother’s number,” an official was quoted as telling one group of reporters on Wednesday. “Why would two people living in the same village talk to each other on the phone for long durations?” the officer added, after showing the reporters the soft copy of the call details. The claim is consistent with the administration’s efforts throughout to question the rape charges and protect the four Rajput accused. None of the officials cited any reason for claiming that most of these 104 conversations involved the victim and not her brother. Her brother has accepted that the girl often used his phone but has declined to respond to the claim that most of the 104 calls involved her. The family has accused all the four suspects of harassing the Dalit victim, an allegation the girl had corroborated from her hospital bed. At the meetings with the reporters, mostly from news outlets seen as government-friendly, the officials have been urging them to visit the village again and question the girl’s family about the alleged affair. According to the girl’s father, the special investigation team (SIT) too has been repeatedly asking the family about their social relations with the accused — whether they interacted regularly — despite repeated clarification that Rajputs and Dalits do not mix socially. “We know we will be unable to convince the anti-women RSS followers that phone conversations don’t necessarily signify an affair,” state Congress chief Ajay Kumar Lallu told reporters. “People talk to each other on the phone even if they live in the neighbourhood. Also, people know each other in the villages and keep meeting even if they are enemies.” The 19-year-old was allegedly gang-raped and had her tongue cut off and spine broken on September 14 in a millet field, where she had gone to cut grass for cattle. Her death in a Delhi hospital on September 29 has sparked nationwide protests. What the officials are insinuating now had been openly alleged on Sunday by Ranjit Bahadur Srivastava, a senior BJP politician and chairperson of the Nawabganj Nagar Palika Parishad. “Why do these girls go to collect grass in sugarcane, arhar and millet fields or in jungles? Why don’t they go to paddy or wheat fields?” a man resembling Srivastava is heard purportedly saying in a video, whose authenticity the politician has confirmed. Sugarcane, arhar, millet and maize plants are taller than wheat or paddy plants. “They (the girls) are made to die in sugarcane, arhar or maize fields. Whatever happened to this girl (Hathras victim) was purely because of a love affair gone awry,” Srivastava said. Rajput panchayats have been claiming not just an affair but that the accused are innocent and have been framed. One such panchayat was attended by a former MLA from the BJP, Rajveer Singh Pahalwan, who openly supported the accused. For eight days after the crime, the police had refused to add gang-rape charges to the original attempt-to-murder charge. Even now, official after official has been questioning the possibility of rape while the government has been sitting on the forensic report, submitted on Saturday. “Police officers claim there was no gang rape. This is just the beginning. The government’s next step will be to prove that the Rajput youths didn’t kill my daughter,” the victim’s father said on Wednesday. “They will then try to prove that it was an honour killing (by the girl’s family). And when the media forget us, their final step will be to allow the Rajputs to lynch us.” He went on: “The SIT met us a dozen times over the past six days and focused more on our relations with the accused than the gang rape and murder of my daughter. They asked me and my wife more questions about our role in the incident than about the case.” He said the mother was repeatedly asked why she had “run away” after stumbling on the crime scene although she had clarified she never ran away and that it was her screams that prompted the attackers to flee. “They don’t believe my daughter’s statement from her hospital bed that Ravi Singh, one of the four accused, had tried to sexually assault her earlier too. But we remained silent at the time because we work in the fields of Rajputs,” the father said. Half-a-dozen families from the Valmiki caste — to which the girl’s family belongs — live in the village of over 120 households. Apart from four or five OBC families, the rest are upper caste, mostly Rajputs. On Wednesday, the girl’s father again questioned chief minister Yogi Adityanath’s Hindu credentials over his police’s act of hijacking the girl’s body and allegedly burning it after locking the family inside their home. “Adityanath claims he is a Hindu sadhu. Doesn’t he know that an unmarried person in our society is buried and not cremated? Did he know before ordering his police to cremate my daughter at 2.30am that in sanatan dharma the last rites are prohibited at night?” he said. The state government has told the Supreme Court that the last rites were conducted in the presence of the family, and that the cremation was speeded up because there was a possibility of violence. The state government has extended the SIT’s tenure by 10 days despite Adityanath on Saturday recommending a probe by the CBI. The SIT had recommended a lie-detection test on the victim’s family, among others. The family wants a judicial probe.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-625
08-10-2020||India||Former CBI chief  found hanging||Former Nagaland governor and one-time CBI chief Ashwani Kumar was found hanging in the attic of his Shimla home on Wednesday, Himachal Pradesh police said. He was 69. The police said Kumar had left behind a suicide note saying he was “embarking on a new journey”, and suggested that Covid-related confinement at home may have led him to take his own life. Kumar was CBI chief from August 2008 to November 2010, a period during which the agency had arrested Amit Shah, now Union home minister, in connection with the Sohrabuddin Sheikh fake encounter case. At the time of his arrest in July 2010, Shah was a minister in a Gujarat government led by then chief minister Narendra Modi. In March 2013, the then Manmohan Singh government had appointed Kumar as Nagaland governor, a stint during which he also officiated as Manipur governor from July 2013 to December 2013. Kumar had to step down weeks after the Modi government came to power in May 2014. The 1973-batch IPS officer from the Himachal Pradesh cadre was among the handful of UPA-appointed governors whom the new government nudged to resign. Speaking of his death, retired IPS officer A.P. Singh, who had succeeded Kumar as CBI director, told The Telegraph: “It’s shocking.” “We recovered a suicide note, in which he has written he is embarking on a new journey,” Himachal director-general of police Sanjay Kundu said. “His family members were present when he went inside the room, locked it and committed suicide by hanging himself with a nylon rope. The family does not suspect any foul play.” A preliminary probe has suggested that the sudden change in Kumar’s active life over the last six months because of confinement at home was a probable reason for the suicide, officials said. One of his neighbours told PTI that Kumar had gone for his evening walk as usual. After returning home, he went to the attic. The body was found by a family member who had gone to the attic to call Kumar for dinner, the neighbour said. Kumar, who was vice-chancellor of a private university in Shimla at the time of his death, is survived by his wife and son. Under Kumar, the CBI had also handled the Aarushi Talwar murder case. During a stint with the Special Protection Group, Kumar had been in charge of the security of then Prime Minister Rajiv Gandhi and Sonia Gandhi. He also served as Himachal DGP. Former colleagues remembered Kumar as a soft-spoken gentleman who always wore a graceful smile.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-625
08-10-2020||India||Thou shalt not… China media letter||The Chinese embassy here issued an advisory to the media on Wednesday on the dos and don’ts to be observed on the “National Day of Taiwan” on Saturday, prompting Taiwan’s foreign minister to accuse Beijing of trying censorship in “earth’s” largest democracy. Taiwan also displayed supreme confidence that its friends in India would give China a fitting reply. The Chinese embassy had, anticipating a bid by some in the media to push the envelope on India’s stated adherence to the “One China Policy”, issued a letter in the “hope” that the media would stick to the Indian government’s position on Taiwan The letter assumed the tone of a directive when it said: “In particular, Taiwan shall not referred to as a ‘country (nation)’ or ‘Republic of China’ or the leader of China’s Taiwan region as ‘President’ so as not to send the wrong signals to the general public.” Reacting to social media posts about the letter, Taiwan’s foreign ministry tweeted: “#India is the largest democracy on Earth with a vibrant press & freedom-loving people. But it looks like communist #China is hoping to march into the subcontinent by imposing censorship. #Taiwan’s Indian friends will have one reply: GET LOST! JW” According to the Twitter handle of the Taiwanese foreign ministry, tweets initialled “JW” are from the minister, Jaushieh Joseph Wu. The letter was sent out after the WION television channel issued a full page “advertorial” in a national newspaper on “The Double Tenth Day: Celebrating ROC Taiwan’s 109th National Day”. WION is part of the Zee Media Corporation, owned by the Essel Group. The group’s chairman is an Independent member of the Rajya Sabha, elected with BJP support. The Chinese embassy also underscored that “there is only one China in the world and the Government of the People’s Republic of China is the sole legitimate government representing the whole of China”. It described Taiwan as an inalienable part of China’s territory. “These facts are recognised by UN resolution and constitute the universal consensus of the international community. All countries that have diplomatic relations with China should firmly honour their commitment to the One-China Policy....” the letter said. In May, amid the pandemic, BJP parliamentarians Meenakshi Lekhi and Rahul Kaswan had attended online the swearing-in of Tsai Ing-Wen for a second term as Taiwan “President”. The move was deemed to have had official nod, which injected a fresh irritant into a bilateral relationship already strained by China’s early summer moves along the Line of Actual Control. China had protested India’s participation in the swearing-in ceremony. India, like much of the rest of the world, lacks a diplomatic mission in Taiwan. But the government has since 1995 had a diplomat heading the India-Taipei Association, with consular and passport services, to promote interactions between India and Taiwan.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-625
08-10-2020||India||PoK missile sites, with China help: Report||Chinese troops are conducting joint patrols with Pakistan’s army in Pakistan-occupied Kashmir, and Beijing is helping set up multiple surface-to-air missile launch sites and a missile defence system in the region, sources in the security establishment said, quoting from an intelligence report. Increased Chinese air activities have also been observed in PoK coinciding with the military standoff between India and China in eastern Ladakh, the sources said. “The latest intelligence report suggests that China is helping Pakistan set up sites for surface-to-air missiles in PoK, and that the two armies are holding joint patrols,” an Intelligence Bureau official attached to the Union home ministry said. “We have been witnessing closer military and economic cooperation between the two countries amid the border standoff between India and China since May.” The Indian Air Force chief, Air Marshal R.K.S. Bhadauria, had on Monday told a news conference that there was nothing to suggest a “collusive threat” but highlighted how the Chinese and Pakistani armies were carrying out joint exercises. “We are aware they are cooperating closely. There is a significant threat but so far there is no such indication that they are colluding for a two-front war,” Bhadauria had said. On India’s capability to withstand a two-front war, Bhadauria had said that amid an “emerging threat scenario in our neighbourhood and beyond”, the country was prepared for any conflict it might face. Among the military infrastructure projects going on at several PoK locations with China’s help, “construction for the installation of a surface-to-air missile defence system is being carried out at Pauli Pir near Lasadanna Dhok of PoK”, a security official said. He said the intelligence report had also spoken of joint reconnaissance exercises between Chinese and Pakistani troops in forward PoK locations such as Deolian and Jura. “We have noticed increased Chinese air activities in PoK, with Chinese refuelling aircraft having landed at Skardu in PoK. The Skardu airbase is about 100km from the Leh airbase on the Indian side,” the security official said. “In the past, Pakistan had conducted joint air exercises with China at the Skardu airbase.” A defence ministry official said that Chinese presence in PoK was not new. “What we are witnessing now is that their military cooperation has deepened in recent months amid the border standoff in eastern Ladakh. Reports suggest that Pakistan has given China more foothold in the region,” he said. A Chinese state-run company had in May this year signed a contract to build the Diamer-Bhasha Dam in Gilgit-Baltistan, PoK, despite Indian objections. Also in the face of Indian opposition, Pakistan and China are building the $60-billion China-Pakistan Economic Corridor that passes through PoK.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-625
08-10-2020||India||Puzzling severity in reinfection in four patients||Reinfections of the new coronavirus in four healthcare workers in Mumbai with strikingly greater clinical severity during their second episodes have surprised sections of the medical community as they defy expectations of milder second-time coronavirus infections. Medical researchers in Mumbai and New Delhi used genome sequence studies on virus samples from each of the four healthcare workers to establish they were true reinfections and not just leftover viruses from their previous infections. The reinfections, the researchers say, carry a take-home-message for the public, relevant now to over 5.4 million people across the country who have recovered from Covid-19 — continue to take precautions. All four healthcare workers, who are engaged in treating coronavirus disease patients in Mumbai hospitals, had either no symptoms or mild symptoms during their first episodes in May and June. However, during their second episodes in July, they developed upper respiratory symptoms, muscle pains, or fever and all were hospitalised for observation and treatment. None of the four developed lung inflammation or disease that doctors have attributed to their relatively young ages. Although, Covid-19 reinfections are rare — only around 10 confirmed through genome studies worldwide among over 27 million people who have recovered from the infection — the Mumbai reinfections are considered significant because they establish the potential for severe reinfections. “Coronavirus reinfections are typically milder — that’s what we’d expect to see,” said Anurag Agrawal, a doctor-turned-researcher and director of the New Delhi-based Institute of Genomics and Integrative Biology (IGIB), a unit of the Council of Scientific and Industrial Research. Parents worldwide are familiar with this phenomenon of milder subsequent coronavirus infections. Young children sent into daycare or playschools often show frequent bouts of respiratory infections that wane in both intensity and number over three to five years. Agrawal and his colleagues have pointed out in a research report that while reinfections appear to be rare, it is unclear how long post-Covid-19 immunity will last. “If those who recover from mild Covid-19 have short-term immunity, reinfections may become more common in the future,” they said in their paper not peer-reviewed yet but posted on a preprint archive server. Doctors have so far confirmed Covid-19 reinfections through genome studies in Hong Kong and Nevada (US). Researchers at the IGIB had last month also established reinfections in two healthcare workers in a government hospital in Noida. The mechanisms that underlie reinfections are still unclear. Some scientists have speculated aberrant immune responses in some individuals might make them vulnerable to reinfections. “The reinfections underline the importance of continued precautions such as masks even by people who have recovered from the infection,” Agrawal said. “We don’t know enough about this virus yet.” The research team included doctors at the Kasturba Hospital and the PD Hinduja Hospital in Mumbai and researchers at the IGIB and the International Centre for Genetic Engineering and Biotechnology, New Delhi.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-625
08-10-2020||India||Two Bengal varsities on ‘fake’ list||The University Grants Commission on Wednesday announced a list of 24 “self-styled, unrecognised institutions” in the country, terming them as “fake” with the maximum of them operating from Uttar Pradesh followed by Delhi. “Students and public are informed that currently 24 self-styled, unrecognised institutions are functioning in contravention of the UGC Act, which have been declared as fake universities and these are not empowered to confer any degree,” UGC secretary Rajnish Jain said. The majority of eight of these universities are from Uttar Pradesh. Delhi has seven alleged fake universities. Bengal and Odisha have two such universities each. In Bengal, the alleged fake universities are Indian Institute of Alternative Medicine and Institute of Alternative Medicine and Research in Calcutta. Karnataka, Kerala, Maharashtra and Puducherry have one fake university each.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-625
08-10-2020||India||Nine injured in Odisha petrol pump blaze||At least nine persons were injured, two of them critically, as a major fire broke out at a petrol pump near the Raj Bhavan here on Wednesday. Sources said the fire suddenly broke out inside one of the three underground liquid chambers when LPG was being transferred from a truck around 1pm. The gas chamber exploded, blowing away its cover and the roof of the petrol pump. Mutilated body parts like ears and fingers were strewn around the petrol pump in the wake of the fire that followed the blast. The sound of the blast was heard around 3km from the spot and many buildings in the nearby areas developed cracks. Even the glass panes inside the Raj Bhavan suffered damage. The Raj Bhavan boundary wall is only 50 metres from the petrol pump and the main building housing the governor and his staff is around 200m away. However, more than 100 deer in the deer parks inside the Raj Bhavan are safe. The two critically injured persons have been shifted to SCB Medical College and Hospital in Cuttack where they are said to be battling for their lives. Binod Prasad Das, an eyewitness, said, “I was filling petrol at the pump when there was a sudden blast. It felt like an earthquake and there was a tremor. The roof of the building was blown away. I ran for my life, leaving my Scooty at the spot. Nearly 10 to 15 customers were present at the petrol pump when the blast occurred. Everyone ran away.” Another eyewitness said, “I don’t know how I survived. I just ran. The noise was deafening.” More than seven fire tenders were pressed into service to douse the blaze and the firemen took around three hours to bring the situation under control. Chief minister Naveen Patnaik announced free medical treatment for the injured and Union petroleum minister Dharmendra Pradhan ordered a probe into the incident. Pradhan asked the ministry secretary to talk to Odisha Indian Oil and state government officials and submit a report as soon as possible. Police commissioner Sudhanshu Sarangri, who rushed to the spot, said, “We will lodge a criminal case. The forensic team is on the spot. The situation has been brought under control. So far no casualties have been reported. We have to contact the hospitals to know about the condition of the injured people. All precautionary measures have been initiated so that there is no spread of fire to the underground petrol reserve at the pump.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-625
08-10-2020||India||Gangsters flex muscles in poll-bound Bihar||It is election season in Bihar and musclemen, gangsters and dons cannot be far behind. This is a state where crime and politics have gone hand-in-hand for the last five decades. The musclemen, known as bahubalis are out again to hog the limelight, contest the polls or prop up their wives or relatives to circumvent the Election Commission’s new rules that make it mandatory for candidates with criminal backgrounds to publicise their case details thrice in newspapers before voting, and asks the political parties to justify why such a nominee was given the ticket instead of any other person. Almost every political party is fielding musclemen or their kin to gain an upper hand in the three-phase polls that would be held on October 28, November 3 and 7. At present the focus is on the first phase in which 71 constituencies are scheduled to go to polls and the deadline for filing nomination ends on Friday. “The gangsters and people with criminal backgrounds find one way or other to bypass all the rules and regulations of the Election Commission, which has no rule in place to check the family members of dreaded dons or convicted criminals from contesting elections. Many people with criminal antecedents are also in the poll fray in the state,” Association for Democratic Reforms (ADR) and Bihar Election Watch (BEW) Bihar convener Rajiv Kumar told The Telegraph. He said that none of the political parties whether ruling or Opposition “are practising morality and ethics they have been preaching the year round. Their only interest and focus is on how to win seats. They all are giving tickets to either tainted people or their family members”. Jailed don Anant Singh, once considered close to chief minister Nitish Kumar, filed his nomination papers from Mokama constituency in Patna district on Wednesday for the Rashtriya Janata Dal. He has been representing the Assembly seat since 2005 — thrice on a Janata Dal United ticket and as an Independent in the 2015 polls. Facing several charges or murder, kidnapping, extortion and possession of illegal weapons, Anant was ironically arrested after RJD chief Lalu Prasad put pressure on the Nitish government to crack the whip in the kidnapping– cum–murder case of one Putus Yadav in 2015. At that time Nitish’s JDU and RJD were allies. Also known as “chhote sarkar”, Anant had weighed Nitish with silver coins on a scale. He had won the 2015 elections from jail. A man of few words, he came in a prisoner’s van to file the nomination and declared: “RJD leader Tejashwi Prasad Yadav will be chief minister. Nitish will go to jail.” Anant’s wife Neelam Singh also filed nomination from the Mokama constituency as an Independent candidate on Wednesday, so that if her husband’s candidature is cancelled due to any reason, she would be in the poll fray. The RJD has also given tickets to Vibha Devi and Kiran Devi, wives of musclemen Rajballabh Prasad Yadav and Arun Yadav, from Nawada and Sandesh constituencies, respectively. Rajballabh, a former Nawada MLA, is currently in jail after being convicted for the rape of a minor girl. He has also been accused of illegal mining, extortion and assault, is considered “Mr Moneybags” of the party and is said to call shots from prison. Arun is an MLA from Sandesh constituency in Bhojpur district, and is on the run after being accused of the rape of a minor girl. He is also considered a strongman in his area. The RJD has banked on another muscleman Surendra Yadav, an accused in several criminal cases, in Belaganj constituency in Gaya district. Nicknamed “Magadh Samrat” (king of Magadh), he is known to hold sway in Maoist-affected areas, where even the police tread with fear. The JDU is also not far behind in fielding musclemen and dons. It has given a ticket to Manorama Devi, currently an MLC, to contest from Atri constituency in Gaya district. Manorama is the wife of Bindi Yadav, an accused in several cases of murder, attempt to murder, assault and extortion. He is considered a terror, unbridled by the law, in his area. She has also been to jail for recovery of liquor from her house after Nitish imposed prohibition in the state. It brings into question the government’s sincerity in imposing the liquor ban. Many musclemen are filing nomination papers as Independent candidates after being denied a ticket by their respective parties. RJD leader Sunil Yadav is one of them. He is engaged in sand business, but has gained notoriety as a person who nobody dares to cross in Paliganj constituency in Patna district. Sunil Pandey is another person who has several cases of murder, kidnapping and extortion against him. The four-time MLA was the Lok Janshakti Party (LJP) vice-president till recently, but resigned after the party announced that it won’t field candidates against the BJP. He will now contest as an Independent from Tarari constituency in Bhojpur district. Sunil was alleged to have been involved in the killing of Ranvir Sena chief Barmeshwar Mukhiya in 2012 — a case that is being probed by the CBI. He was also arrested for allegedly hatching a plan to eliminate dreaded Uttar Pradesh don and MLA Mukhtar Ansari. Notorious gangster and MLC Ritlal Yadav, recently released from jail, is all set to contest from Danapur constituency on the outskirts of Patna. An accused in several cases of murder, attempt to murder, extortion and land grabbing, he is said to have made a fortune in managing tenders, especially those related to the railways in Bihar. Ritlal’s sway in his constituency could be understood by the fact that RJD chief Lalu Prasad had visited his house to seek support for his daughter Misa Bharti in the 2014 Lok Sabha elections. Many more dons — jailed or free — are set to enter the electoral fray either themselves or through their family members in the next two phases. The political parties are yet to announce their list of candidates, but the chief among them would be the wives of jailed gangsters–cum–politicians like Muhammad Shahabuddin, Anand Mohan, Rama Singh, Ranvir Yadav, Awadhesh Mandal and Amarendra Pandey.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-625
