09-10-2020||India||India-Israel effort behind 'one-minute' Covid test ||A game-changer rapid Covid-19 testing technology being jointly developed by India and Israel should be ready for rollout in "a matter of days" and it will be able to give test results in less than a minute by simply requiring an individual to blow into a tube, the Israeli envoy to India has said. Ambassador Ron Malka also said Israel would want India to become the manufacturing hub for this rapid testing kit and the two countries will also collaborate on vaccine development for this dreaded disease with India taking a key role in production given its "very strong relative advantage in manufacturing". He said the work on the rapid Covid-19 testing project is in a very advanced stage. "I think it is a matter of days. What I hear from those involved in the process, it should not take more than 2-3 weeks to finalise that one reliable and accurate technology or a combination of more than one from amongst the four different technologies being analysed," Malka told PTI in an interview. Indian and Israeli researchers have conducted trials after collecting a large number of samples in India for four different kinds of technologies, including a breath analyser and a voice test, that have the potential to detect Covid-19 rapidly. There is also isothermal testing that enables identification of the novel coronavirus in a saliva sample and a test using poly-amino acids that seeks to isolate proteins related to Covid-19. Malka said he has been told by the scientists that tens of technologies were tested to short-list these four technologies, which have now gone through different stages as per different demands to reach the last stage. "I am optimistic as all threshold conditions have already been passed," he said. The envoy said this new rapid test is going to be a game-changer and is "a shining example of how fruitful collaboration in science and technology between Israel and India can be." "It will be good news for the entire world. Until we manage to immunise the entire population, this joint operation, which we had named 'open skies', would literally open the skies in terms of international travel and other economic activities as this can be used at airports and other places by requiring a person just to blow into a tube and the result would be available in 30-40-50 seconds," he said. In addition, this will be very cheap cost-wise as it gives the result locally without the logistical baggage of sending the sample to laboratories, Malka said. Asked about collaboration on vaccine development, Malka said the two countries were always sharing research and technologies. Noting that India has a "very strong relative advantage in manufacturing", Malka said once the vaccine is ready, Israel is hopeful to get the advantage of that. "We are helping and supporting each other," he added. "We understand that once there is a reliable vaccine that is safe and effective, it will be mostly produced in India," Malka said. Israel understands that when India will manufacture a vaccine, it will also take into consideration the needs of Israel, he added. The Israeli Ambassador also thanked authorities in India for the help and assistance they provided after the virus outbreak to evacuate thousands of Israelis stranded all over India. Indian Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu also spoke to each other recently on the collaboration in combating the pandemic, he noted. During their telephonic conversation earlier this month the two leaders had assessed the progress in bilateral cooperation in the context of the Covid-19 pandemic, especially in the fields of research, field trials of diagnostic tools and vaccine development. They agreed on the importance of close cooperation in these important areas not only for the benefit of the people of the two countries but also for the greater good of humanity. Malka said healthcare has become an immediate priority area of collaboration between India and Israel due to the pandemic. Asserting that healthcare will be one of the main pillars of collaboration between Israel and India going forward, Malka said he has also been working closely with Ayushman Bharat CEO Indu Bhushan to explore ways to collaborate on the mission. Malka said Israel has always focussed on multi-use technologies and in the case of healthcare also it has been using some technologies used in security areas. He said India was the obvious choice for collaboration when Israel's defence research organisation decided to focus on rapid Covid-19 testing technology. The rapid testing is being jointly developed in cooperation with the Defense Research and Development Directorate of the Israeli Ministry of Defence, India's Defence Research and Development Organisation, Council of Scientific and Industrial Research and Principal Scientific Advisor, India -- coordinated by the ministries of foreign affairs of Israel and India. The samples were collected when a multi-pronged mission from Israel visited India to cooperate on Covid-19 research and development around July-end and early August. "The joint research (on rapid testing) is a very successful operation. It was something remarkable to analyse 25,000 samples in nine days. It shows the great potential of the collaboration, expanding the mutual commitment, chemistry and trust between the two countries. Otherwise, we could not have succeeded in such a challenging operation," Malka said. If good results are obtained on rapid testing, the manufacturing hub for such Covid test kits would be India, he said. He said that the special plane on which the Israeli research team had visited India had also brought advanced medical equipment developed especially for fighting Covid-19 in Israel. Malka said he personally collected the useful equipment from leading hospitals in Israel and brought them with him on board the special plane. "We also brought respirators at that time, though there was an export ban on them," the Israeli envoy said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-621
09-10-2020||India||Temple priest burnt to death over land dispute||A temple priest died after being set on fire by five people over a land dispute in Rajasthan's Karauli district, police said on Friday. The five accused allegedly poured petrol on Babu Lal Vaishnav and set him on fire in Bukna village on Wednesday. He was referred to the SMS hospital in Jaipur in a critical condition. Vaishnav succumbed to injuries on Thursday night. The priest had about thirteen bighas (around 5.2 acres) of land which belonged to the Radha Krishna temple trust in a village in the district. But the land was given to the head priest to till as a source of income. Lands like these, which belong to temple trusts,  are generally given to caretaker priests for their use in return for the fact that they perform the pujas and carry out rituals in village temples. Such lands are called "Mandir Mafi " and are a source of income for priests who are caretakers of village temples in Rajasthan. The priest, wanting to build a house for himself, had the land levelled by an earth-mover to which a group of people from the dominant Meena community objected to and claimed the land as their own, reported ndtv.com. The dispute was taken to the village elders who ruled in favour of the priest. The priest then went ahead and placed bales of his newly harvested millet as a sign of ownership but the accused allegedly started building their own hut on the land that the priest had levelled, said ndtv.com. This led to an altercation. The priest, whose statement before the police has been recorded, said six people poured petrol on his bales of bajra (millet) which were lying at the disputed site and set it on fire on Wednesday. He claimed they also poured petrol on him and tried to set him on fire. Suffering burn injuries, the victim was rushed to Jaipur's SMS Hospital where he died on Thursday evening. Senior police officer Harji Lal Yadav told NDTV, "The post-mortem is being done right now of the body. We have registered a case of murder and we have also taken the prime accused, Kailsah Meena, and an accomplice into custody." Vaishnav's family members have demanded action against the SHO, investigation by a deputy rank official, compensation and government job to a family member.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-621
09-10-2020||India||Author on a 20-hour protest after jeweller refuses to speak in Marathi||Marathi writer Shobha Deshpande staged nearly a 20-hour protest in Mumbai after a city-based jeweller allegedly refused to speak in Marathi and asked her to leave his shop where she had gone to make a purchase. The jeweller on Friday apologised to the veteran writer, who had staged the protest overnight on the footpath outside his shop since Thursday. Deshpande was later taken to a hospital for a medical check-up by the police. The Raj Thackeray-led Maharashtra Navnirman Sena (MNS) backed the protest by Deshpande and warned the jeweller, Shankarlal Jain, that he will not be able to open his shop till he learns Marathi. MNS workers also allegedly slapped Jain. Speaking to a Marathi news channel, Deshpande said she had gone to the jewellery shop in Colaba, south Mumbai, to buy earrings. During their conversation, the author insisted that Jain speak to her in Marathi. His shop is in the capital of Maharashtra whose language is Marathi and he must know how to speak Marathi. He said he cannot speak Marathi. I was speaking in Marathi and he did not. "Since I did not speak in Hindi, he refused to sell me the earrings. He arrogantly asked me to leave the place, Deshpande alleged. The writer said she demanded that the jeweller show the licence required to run the shop, but he refused. When I called the police, they too took the jewellers side. Then I staged the protest, Deshpande alleged. Jain on Friday morning apologised to the writer, who staged dharna for nearly 20 hours before being taken to the hospital. Meanwhile, the MNS workers, who had arrived at the spot to express solidarity with Deshpande, were seen slapping the jeweller as he apologised to the writer. "We were here to support the writer. We taught the jeweller a lesson for being arrogant. We have made him apologise. He will not be able to open his shop until he learns Marathi, MNS leader Sandeep Deshpande told the channel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-622
09-10-2020||India||Chhattisgarh leads in recognising forest rights ||Chhattisgarh has emerged as a leading state in terms of recognition of individual and community forest rights, across the nation under the leadership of chief minister Bhupesh Baghel. According to sources in his government, more than 4.41 lakh people and over 46,000 community forest rights have been distributed to the Scheduled Tribes community and other traditional forest dwellers. Around 51.06 lakh acres of individual and community forest rights have been distributed to local communities in the state. "One hectare of forest land has been recognized for forest rights holders on an average, which is comparatively better than the rest of the nation," said a senior government official. On the occasion of the 151st birth anniversary of Mahatma Gandhi on October 2, around 1,300 community forest resource conservation rights pertaining to over 5 lakh hectares, was distributed to gram sabhas virtually by the Chief Minister through video conferencing. "The area of more than 4.41 lakh individual forest rights papers distributed accounts for more than 9,41,800 acres. Similarly, the area of more than 46, 000 community forest rights papers, accounts for more than 41,64,700 acres. For the first time in Chhattisgarh, the state government has provided consent and recognition to gram sabhas, regarding the management of 26,000 hectares of forest land, under 23 cases of community forest resource rights after January 2019," he said. The recognized beneficiaries are not only handed over forest rights letters, but are also being provided with various facilities like irrigation, manure-seeds, agricultural inputs by the convergence and integration of government-run schemes on their recognized forest lands. So far, there are 1,49,762 beneficiaries of land levelling and fencing. The area of their land accounts for more than 58,000 hectares. "Levelling and fencing work was conducted on the beneficiaries lands who availed the forest rights. Manure-seeds and agricultural inputs have also been provided to them," official said. The provisions of the Forest Rights Act are meant to provide the Scheduled Tribes and other traditional forest dweller families, a life which they deserve consisting of their rights, self-reliance and respect. Community forest rights include the right of disposal, ownership of minor forest produce, right to use fish and water bodies products, grazing, especially the habitat of vulnerable tribal groups and pre-agricultural communities. Under this, till September, 14,970 community forest rights papers have been provided for 9,74,635 hectares of forest land. Under the Forest Rights Act- 2006, 1,158 hectares of forest land has been provided to various departments for conducting 2,309 projects regarding 13 purposes from centres, roads and community centres, which will include the provision of public facilities such as schools, dispensaries, anganwadis, fair price shops, electrical and telecom lines, tanks and small reservoirs, drinking water supply and water pipelines, water or rainwater harvesting structures, minor irrigation canals, unconventional Energy sources, skill up-gradation or professional training. "With an aim to make the forest dwellers self-reliant by providing resources of extra income along with a life of respect, individual and community forest right holders of 1,110 hectares of land, will be provided with 1,150 hectares of irrigated land to plant fruits, small forest produce and medicinal plantations,vegetable production, etc, implementation is under the scheme of MNREGA," the official concluded.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-622
09-10-2020||India||Odisha petrol pump fire mishap victim dies||One of the victims of the fire at the petrol pump near Raj Bhavan here on Wednesday succumbed to his injuries while another is still battling for his life at the SCB Medical College and Hospital, Cuttack. Another person is missing. The Indian Oil Corporation Limited (IOCL) has announced compensation for the families of the deceased. Though police had deployed a dog squad to ferret out anyone buried under the debris at the mishap site it failed to find anyone. However, mutilated body parts strewn near the filling station were collected by the forensic department for examination. Police commissioner Sudhanshu Sarangi, who inspected the site on Thursday again, said a scientific investigation has been initiated into the fire tragedy. “One person is still missing. We deployed a dog squad near the crater formed by the impact of the blast that led to the fire. But because of the heavy smell of petrol and gas dogs could not find anything. We will check the site physically.” Sarangi said: “Four people were working at the refilling station for repair work when the blast took place. Though we have found mutilated body parts, we cannot jump to any conclusion unless we do a DNA test. We are investigating the matter. We have lodged a criminal case but we are yet to fix responsibility for the mishap.” The family of the missing person, Simanchal Parida, approached the police and sought their help in tracing him. “Simanchal was working in the gas chamber when the accident took place. IOCL officials were informed that his money purse had been identified. But we are yet to trace him,” said an official adding that restrictions imposed on the movement of people near the area had been lifted on Thursday evening. Meanwhile, IOCL announced a compensation of Rs. 8 lakh for the immediate family members of the deceased, Rs 4 lakh for the family member of the injured. The next of kin of partially injured persons will receive Rs 1 lakh. Odisha chief  secretary A.K. Tripathy asked the district collectors to consider the possibility of opening up places of worship for the public and submit and report to the government in the next 10-days. PTI||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-622
09-10-2020||India||Chilika’s authority adopts Fishing Cat as its new ambassador||Chilika, the largest brackish water lagoon in Asia and India’s oldest Ramsar site, on Thursday adopted Fishing Cat as its ambassador. The decision was taken on the concluding day of the wildlife week celebration that began on October 2. A Ramsar site is a designated wetland of international importance. Chief executive officer of Chilika Development Authority (CDA) Sushant Nanda told The Telegraph: “Fishing Cat is a Schedule-I species and deserves the best possible conservation measures in India like the tiger and the elephant. Unfortunately, marshland and mangrove ecosystems, which are the known habitat of Fishing Cat, are in a declining state. CDA will be according the highest priority to conserving their habitat and population.” The globally endangered felid was found to be present all around Chilika but the marshlands fringing its north and northeastern sections was where most evidence of its occurrence was found, according to a recent study. The study was  conducted by the Fishing Cat Project (TFCP) and the Indian wing of Fishing Cat Conservation Alliance (FCCA), a global organisation comprising experts working on the elusive but rare feline in all range countries in collaboration with the CDA which has been monitoring the well-being of the Ramsar site. Nanda said: “The future plans of this collaborative venture between CDA and TFCP include regularising protocols to estimate Fishing Cat populations in Chilika and to create a Fishing Cat conservation network by involving local stakeholders, college students, researchers, non-government and government organisations.” “Estimation of Fishing Cat population will be done through camera trap in near future collaboratively by CDA, Fishing Cat Project (TFCP) and the Indian wing of Fishing Cat Conservation Alliance (FCCA). The results are expected in the first part of 2021 and will be the first of its kind in estimating the apex predator of the coastal ecosystem,” an official said. Tiasa Adhya, co-founder of The Fishing Cat Project said: “Projecting Fishing Cat as the face of marshlands will raise the profile of Fishing Cat and marshland ecosystems globally and nationally which are otherwise neglected ecosystems. Locally, it will nurture their value among multiple stakeholders in Chilika.” These marshes receive the maximum freshwater flow from the tributaries of Mahanadi and seasonal rivulets. Analysis of long-term data collected by the CDA shows that this area also has high fish abundance. This is significant given that fish is the lifeline of Chilika sustaining two lakh fishermen families and globally threatened piscivorous mammals like Fishing Cat, Smooth-coated Otter and Eurasian Otter. “Management interventions are required to prolong the life of this marshland so that it can continue to provide for the globally endangered Fishing Cat, the hundreds of precious birdlife that arrive every winter here and to the indigenous fishing community,” said Partha Dey, co-founder, TFCP . “We will also to set up a rescue and rehabilitation centre for birds, Irrawaddy dolphins, fishing cat and otters with the help of WTI (Wildlife Trust of India) inside the Chilika lagoon. This centre will cater to a long-standing need for rescue and rehabilitation of the migratory birds and other flagship species of the lagoon,” officials said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-622
09-10-2020||India||Gallantry medals for Balakot air strike IAF officers||Three IAF officers who took part in the Balakot air strikes last year received gallantry medals on the 88th Air Force Day on Thursday. The officers who received the Yudh Seva Medal are Squadron Leader Minty Agarwal, Group Captain Hansel Sequera and Group Captain Hemant Kumar Vadsra. The Yudh Seva Medal recognises distinguished service of a high order during war, conflict or hostilities. Six air force personnel had died in the February 27 crash in Jammu and Kashmir’s Budgam and a civilian on the ground was charred to death. The friendly fire took place when Pakistani planes had raided Indian territory a day after New Delhi had launched an air strike on Balakot in retaliation to the February 14 Pulwama strike. In January this year, the Centre had also awarded gallantry medals to the two Indian Air Force’s pilot and four other IAF personnel “Mention-in-Despatches” posthumously, prompting questions from some defence ministry officials. The officials had said it was very unusual and surprising that the two pilots — Squadron Leaders Siddharth Vashisht and Ninad Mandavgan — of the ill-fated Mi17 chopper had been awarded the Vayu Sena Medal as they and other four IAF personnel had fallen to their own comrades’ fire. The helicopter tragedy had taken place on the same day the plane of Wing Commander Abhinandan Varthaman was shot down and was captured by Pakistan, which later released him.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-622
09-10-2020||India||Ram Vilas Paswan: master political pulse reader||Ram Vilas Paswan, Union minister and a prominent Dalit leader, passed away at a Delhi hospital on Thursday evening, days after he underwent heart surgery. He was 74. His son Chirag, who has taken over the reins of the Lok Janshakti Party floated by his father, tweeted about his death. “Miss you Papa,” he tweeted. “Papa, you are no more in this world but I’m sure you’re with me, wherever you are.” Ram Vilas’s death comes in the backdrop of the upcoming Bihar elections in which the LJP has under his son decided to contest alone, aiming to oust Janata Dal United chief Nitish Kumar from the chief minister’s chair. Ram Vilas was the eldest of the Bihar triumvirate — which included Lalu Prasad and Nitish — that has lorded over the politics of the state over the last three decades. All three, part of the socialist family, had emerged out of the anti-Congress movement led by Jayaprakash Narayan or JP in the seventies. The three had started out together but driven by ambitions of power politics, split and floated their separate parties. Ram Vilas was initiated into politics at a very early age. He was elected to the Bihar Assembly at the age of just 23 in 1969, even before the anti-Congress JP movement took shape. In a coincidence, Ram Vilas passed away on the death anniversary of Jayaprakash Narayan. In 1977, Ram Vilas was elected to the sixth Lok Sabha and in 1989 he was a cabinet minister in the V.P. Singh government. There was no stopping Ram Vilas after his arrival in Delhi, hailing from a humble background in north Bihar’s Khagaria district. His political identity, however, was tied up with the reserved Hajipur Lok Sabha constituency, from where he set a world-record victory margin in 1977 after his post-Emergency release from jail. He represented Hajipur over many terms. At the time of his death, however, he was a Rajya Sabha MP. He floated his Lok Janshakti Party in 2000 after the erstwhile Janata Dal formed by V.P. Singh splintered. Ram Vilas, known to be a master political weathercock, managed to be in power in different parties’ governments led by different Prime Ministers, from V.P. Singh, Deve Gowda and I.K. Gujral to Atal Bihari Vajpayee, Manmohan Singh and Narendra Modi. Unlike Lalu and Nitish, Ram Vilas remained focused on securing power in Delhi. He never appeared interested in donning the chief minister’s chair in Patna, though he derived his political strength from Bihar. Holding sway over his Paswan (a caste among Dalits) support base, known to be militant and having a decent presence across Bihar, Ram Vilas could tilt the balance towards whoever he backed. He used that ability to remain in power. Now his son Chirag is trying to step into the shoes of his father in the October-November Bihar elections. Chirag has declared the LJP would back the BJP but would go all out to defeat the saffron party’s partner in the polls, Nitish and his JDU. Chirag wants to oust Nitish and get a BJP-LJP combination to acquire power in Bihar. His father had tried a similarly double-edged political manoeuvring in the 2005 Bihar Assembly polls. The LJP had then fielded candidates against Lalu Prasad’s Rashtriya Janata Dal while both were allies of the Congress-led UPA at the Centre. Ram Vilas had succeeded in his goal of ending Lalu’s 15-year rule in Bihar. Son Chirag is trying out the same experiment in Bihar 2020 to end Nitish’s 15-year rule. If he succeeds, Ram Vilas’s legacy will continue to thrive.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-622
09-10-2020||India||Warn-and-wink game in Bihar||Those familiar with the serial adventures of Asterix of Gaul would perhaps best be able to visualise the emerging contours of battleground Bihar. Multiple armies converging upon each other in raucous streams with no cognition of ally and adversary, heft or hollowness, as if animated solely by the prospect of an anarchic enactment. What looked like a humdrum contest between two alliances until last week has overnight been transformed into a shambolic melee that has so blurred the battle-lines that it is tough to tell who’s fighting who. Bihar is headed towards an onomatopoeic crescendo ringing with comic-grade sonics — Piff! Paff! Bong! Aaaargh!! Raring mid-battlestrip is the exaggeration called Chirag Paswan, a political rookie handed reins of the LJP by his ailing father, the veteran Ram Vilas Paswan, who passed away in a Delhi hospital on Thursday evening. The young Paswan is clearly punching impossibly above his weight or his party’s. The LJP’s Assembly numbers have been steadily tumbling; from an all-time high of 29, they plummeted to two in the 243-member house in 2015. On such a match-box presence, Chirag has unveiled ambitions of erecting a mansion — the LJP will contest 143 seats, in abject violation of reason and of accepted coalition norms. But to focus on Chirag’s implausible leap of political pretence — probably buoyed in some measure now by sympathy sentiment — is to lose sight of the launch pad that has shot him towards distances way beyond his horsepower. Chirag’s sudden voracity of appetite and his violations of NDA entente are a thing of the BJP’s encouragement. Here is an NDA scion swearing war and vengeance upon an NDA chief minister. He has stomped off seat negotiations and pitched LJP war camps in more constituencies than either the BJP or Nitish’s JDU. He has festooned Patna with banners of “BJP se bair nahin, Nitish ka khair nahin… No war with the BJP, but no love lost for Nitish”. Chirag has tweeted from his official handle an intention to expose wrongdoing behind Nitish’s signature “saat nishchay” welfare programme and punish the guilty after the elections. He has fired off a firman to followers not to cast a single vote for Nitish. His father was cabinet minister in the Narendra Modi government to the end. Just before Chirag turned ballistic on Nitish and arrogated an extravagant number of Assembly seats to his party, he was in conference with BJP chief J.P. Nadda and Union home minister Amit Shah. It is unlikely Chirag triggered his bellicose revolt against Nitish without sanction from BJP bosses. Many in Nitish’s JDU are convinced, over the protestations of the BJP, that the part Chirag is playing out is the work of interior designers; but they won’t voice their misgivings, at least yet, for fear of detrimental consequences. Backstage, though, some misgivings have been unequivocally voiced. Before Nitish appeared at an NDA media conference in Patna a few days ago, he sought repeated guarantees that a clear statement on his leadership would be made publicly by the BJP. After fair humming and hawing, the job of guarantor fell upon Nitish’s deputy and Bihar BJP leader Sushil Modi, who announced there were “no ifs and buts” that Nitish would continue as chief minister. Sushil Modi’s trust deficit in the Narendra Modi-Amit Shah scheme is one of the more poorly kept secrets of Bihar politics. The BJP high command’s point-man for the Bihar elections, former Maharashtra chief minister Devendra Fadnavis, sat on the same podium, duly masked and silent. Officially, the BJP maintains allegiance to vows it has publicly made on Nitish’s continued chief ministership. It has also “warned” party men not to embrace the LJP and harm the prospects of Nitish’s candidates. But that warning comes with a pronounced wink. Several BJP leaders and sympathisers have already “left” to join the LJP and accepted poll tickets. Rajinder Singh, a senior RSS apparatchik who contested the Dinara Assembly seat on a BJP ticket in 2015 and lost, is among them. So is the Nawada district BJP chief, Anil Kumar. So is Dr Ravinder Yadav of Jhajha. This filtration is a proactive work in progress, keep a keen eye: BJP cadres masquerading as LJP candidates are out to undercut Nitish’s nominees and reduce his post-poll tally. This is the first Assembly election Nitish is contesting in alliance with the BJP since Narendra Modi became Prime Minister. The protocols of partnership have already been altered beyond mere paperwork. Nitish has never conceded the BJP an equal share of seats in the past; this time the BJP has 121 seats to Nitish’s 122. But effectively, the BJP already weighs far heavier on the contest. Nitish must concede seven seats to Jitan Ram Majhi’s HAM, bringing his own party’s tally down to 115. The BJP, on the other hand, may well negotiate to disguise its generous gift of 11 seats to Mukesh Mallah’s VIP by convincing him that they contest on BJP tickets; that will ensure the BJP is contesting all of its 121 seats. Besides, and not to be discounted, Paswan’s LJP, a staunch ally openly canvassing for a BJP chief minister, will add to its post-poll tally. Do not discount either that other burgeoning alliance that now calls itself the Grand Democratic Secular Front. It comprises, among other smaller players, Upendra Kushwaha’s RLSP, Mayawati’s BSP, imported from UP, and Asaduddin Owaisi’s AIMIM. A large chunk of the seats the BJP has left for Nitish to contest are in Bihar’s Seemanchal region. It is a minority-preponderant belt and Nitish will have to compete tooth and nail with not only the RJD but also Owaisi’s candidates. But multi-cornered battles are not Seemanchal’s preserve, they are erupting across the state in kaleidoscopic variants, cutting, slashing, tearing in ways hard to tell. If Bihar’s battlefield looks like a madness taking shape, be sure there is a method behind it.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-622
09-10-2020||India||Centre files ‘evasive’ affidavit on demonising Muslims||An exasperated Supreme Court on Thursday observed that the “freedom of speech may be the most abused freedom in recent times”. The comment came as the court rapped the Centre for filing an “evasive” affidavit through a “junior” on a plea that alleged that some media outlets were “demonising” Muslims over the spread of the pandemic. “Well, they (the Union government) are entitled to make any argument like you people (lawyers) also make… but this freedom of speech may be the most abused freedom in recent times,” Chief Justice S.A. Bobde, heading a bench that included Justices A.S. Bopanna and V. Ramasubramanian, said. He did not specify if he was referring to the media’s alleged portrayal of Muslims as deliberate spreaders of the coronavirus, or to the government’s affidavit that the court had found to contain “nonsensical averments”, or to a general trend. The observation came after senior advocate Dushyant Dave, appearing for petitioner Jamiat Ulema Hind that had sought restraints on the media from maligning an entire community, objected to the government’s August 6 affidavit. On the plea that the petition had not named specific media establishments, the government had argued it could not impose a blanket “gag order” since that would amount to “muzzling” the media. “We find it (the affidavit) extremely evasive and (it) mentions nothing about bad reporting. How can you say there is no incident (of biased reporting)?” the court asked solicitor-general Tushar Mehta, appearing for the Centre. It asked Mehta to ensure that a secretary-rank official in the I&B ministry filed a fresh affidavit. The August 6 affidavit was filed by Sonika Khattar, an undersecretary. The proceedings appeared to reflect an ironic role reversal of sorts — the custodian of the Constitution highlighting abuse of the freedom of speech and the Centre, no stranger to accusations of infringing on citizens’ rights or crushing dissent, conveniently batting for media freedom. Another Supreme Court bench had made similar remarks last month while hearing another case relating to media coverage of Muslims. The court had at the time passed an interim injunction on a programme by the Sudarshan News television channel that suggested that “jihadis” were “infiltrating” central services. Justice Bobde castigated the Centre over a junior officer filing a shoddy reply to the petition. “The affidavit is filed by junior officer. It is extremely evasive, does not respond to the incidents cited by petitioner…. You can’t treat this court the way you are treating (it). Some of your junior officer, undersecretary, has filed the affidavit!” Justice Bobde told Mehta. “You have the secretary of the department file an affidavit without making such nonsensical averments like the petitioners haven’t showed any instance of bad media reporting,” he said. After Mehta said a fresh affidavit would be filed, the court posted the next hearing after two weeks. Earlier, the court had stressed that the Cable Television Networks Act allowed the government to regulate only cable operators and not the broadcasters. “Now we want to know, does the government have any powers to ban or question the TV broadcast signals?” it asked. “We also want all acts under which you have exercised similar powers in the past.” Jamiat had moved the petition in April, highlighting how some media outlets were citing the mid-March Tablighi Jamaat gathering in Delhi to accuse Muslims of spreading Covid-19, using phrases such as “Corona jihad”, “Corona terrorism” and “Corona bombs”. Several members of the Jamaat congregation had been found Covid-positive after they had travelled to other states. Many in the media used this “unfortunate incident” to “demonise the entire Muslim community”, the petition said. It referred to “fake reports and/or videos” targeting Muslims, such as “a fake video of Sufi followers indulging in mass sneezing or another fake video showing Muslim persons licking vessels allegedly to perpetrate the spread of corona in the country”. It underlined that the “communal” reporting had fuelled hate at a time the February riots in Delhi had left the nation “tense and sensitive”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-622
09-10-2020||India||Lockdown impact continues to affect migrants||The average income had plummeted 85 per cent by mid-August among returned migrant workers while 35 per cent of them had no work at all, a survey has found. It has discovered that two-thirds now want to return to their outstation workplaces, the continuing hardship forcing a change of heart after millions had vowed never to step out again following the miseries of the initial days of the lockdown. If the scenes of suffering hordes walking hundreds of miles home captured that early horror, the June 30-August 15 telephone survey of returned migrants across six states has emphasised the lockdown’s continuing impact. The report “Migrant workers: A study on their livelihood after reverse migration due to lockdown” by the Inferential Survey Statistics and Research Foundation, a body of retired Indian Statistical Service and Indian Economic Service officials, was released on Thursday. The survey covered 2,917 returned migrants from 505 gram panchayats in 34 districts in Bengal, Bihar, Odisha, Uttar Pradesh, Chhattisgarh and Jharkhand, its principal investigator B.B. Singh said. It found that their average monthly income had, after their return, fallen from Rs 13,683 to Rs 2,045 – a drop of 85 per cent. Some 67.64 per cent wanted to return to their workplaces, where — 75 per cent of them reckoned — there would be better job opportunities. Labour minister Santosh Gangwar had told the Lok Sabha on September 14 that 80 crore people were being provided 5kg wheat or rice and 1kg of pulses free every month in addition to their usual entitlements under the National Food Security Act. Gangwar said 20.65 crore women Jan Dhan account holders had been given a cash assistance of Rs 500 a month for three months, while three crore pensioners had received a one-time ex-gratia assistance of Rs 1,000. Besides, the government said it had allocated an additional Rs 40,000 crore under the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Act, which promises every rural household up to 100 days’ work a year. However, the survey found that while the job scheme was supposed to absorb a substantial number of the returned migrants, it provided employment to just 3.53 per cent of them. While many of the returned migrants did casual work for an average of 4.59 days a week, nearly half were paid less than the minimum wage. About 35 per cent had no work. The survey found that 50 per cent of the migrants were salaried workers before the lockdown while 42 per cent were casual workers and the rest were self-employed. Another finding was that some states had started giving free rations to the stranded migrants during the early days of the lockdown, but it was too little. Only 4 per cent received the free rice and less than 2.57 per cent received free wheat and dal. P.C. Mohanan, former acting chairperson of the National Statistical Commission who attended the report’s web release, told The Telegraph the survey had substantiated with data the general perception that the government had not taken the migrants’ concerns into account adequately while imposing the lockdown. “The survey has found that there was hardly any support for sustaining their income or rations at their place of work,” he said. Mohanan highlighted that the country currently has no system to absorb migrants under the public distribution system. “One piece of good news is that two-thirds of the returned migrants want to return to their work sites. Now most of the travel, including train travel, has become expensive. The central and state governments should ensure they can go back to their workplaces without any financial burden,” he said. Only expensive special trains are now running in the country. Ashok Gulati, former commissioner for agricultural cost and prices, said: “To me, the income loss is the most alarming aspect.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-622
09-10-2020||India||Dalit BJP leader behind smear ploy, says Hathras victim’s kin||The Hathras victim’s sister-in-law on Thursday accused local MP and Dalit BJP leader Rajveer Diler of conspiring at the state government’s behest to try and establish that the Dalit girl was subjected to “honour killing” by her own family. The girl’s father underlined that his younger son and an accused had the same name and claimed the administration was portraying calls between brother and sister, among others, as those between the victim and the suspect to concoct a “love affair”. The sister-in-law’s allegation came as a letter written purportedly by the four accused was circulated among the media and beamed by some TV channels. It claimed the Dalit girl’s family had killed her because she was in a relationship with one of the Rajput accused. “The MP met the four accused in Hathras district jail on October 2, got a letter written by them, and is now circulating it among the media and members of the Rajput caste,” the sister-in-law said. Diler denied the allegation. “I was passing by near the jail and received a call from someone who was there,” he told reporters on Thursday. “I sat in an officer’s cabin and met the staff member who had called me. I didn’t meet anybody lodged in the jail.” According to the letter, one of the accused — the alleged boyfriend — and the girl had met in a millet field on September 14 and were seen by her mother and a brother. The letter alleges the enraged family then murdered the girl in an “honour killing”. It denies rape. The sister-in-law said: “Yogi Adityanath’s government will never let it be known that Rajputs raped a Dalit sweeper’s daughter. So, the entire government machinery is working round the clock to save the accused.” She added: “We know that justice comes at a cost in India. But we are going to fight the Rajputs to the end because God is with us.” Officials have been showing reporters call details that suggest the “boyfriend” and one of the girl’s brothers exchanged 104 phone calls between October 2019 and March this year. Claiming that the girl regularly used the brother’s phone and was involved in most of the conversations, the officials have been suggesting a “love affair” to discredit the gang-rape allegation and tarnish the girl’s reputation in the light of the prevalent patriarchal attitudes. On Wednesday, the brother had admitted to a stray question that his sister often used his phone. However, the father put the record straight on Thursday. “One of the jailed accused and my younger son have the same first name. The mobile number the government people are talking about (as registered in the name of the accused ‘boyfriend’) belongs to my son and the phone was always with him,” he said. “There’s another mobile, also registered in the name of my younger son, which the rest of the family used. I and other family members used to speak to my son on that phone.” The father said neither his daughter nor anyone else from the family had ever been in touch with the accused. “My son or daughter never spoke to them on the phone. But the government is powerful and can prove anything,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-622
09-10-2020||India||TRP racket finger at Republic TV||Mumbai police on Thursday claimed to have busted a Television Rating Points (TRP) manipulation racket, adding that four persons have been arrested in this case. TRP is a tool to judge which TV programmes are viewed the most and also indicates the viewers’ choice and popularity of a particular channel. TRP is calculated on the basis of TV channel viewership in a confidential set of households. Mumbai police commissioner Param Bir Singh told reporters that Republic TV channel, facing flak over its attack on Mumbai police and Maharashtra government in the Sushant Singh Rajput death case, was also involved in the “false TRP” racket. Singh said those involved in the racket would bribe people in these households and ask them to keep some channels switched on even when they weren’t watching or not at home. The Mumbai police crime branch, which unearthed the TRP racket, has arrested two persons, owners of two Marathi channels, for manipulating viewership ratings, Singh said. Another police official said two former employees of Hansa agency, involved in the process to determine the TRPs, have also been arrested. Singh said Republic TV channel was also involved in the TRP racket and those responsible will be arrested, be it a director, promoter or any other employee of the channel. In a statement, Republic TV rubbished Singh’s claims. Arnab Goswami, editor-in-chief of the channel, said the Mumbai police chief made false claims against Republic TV as the channel had questioned him in the Sushant Singh Rajput case investigation. Goswami said the channel would file a criminal defamation case against the Mumbai police commissioner. The Broadcast Audience Research Council (BARC), the industry body, has not mentioned the channel even in a single complaint, he said, adding that Singh should issue an apology and get ready to face the channel in court. But the police chief said it was an agency called Hansa, contracted by BARC for monitoring the barometers that track TRPs, that  filed a complaint of the TRP racket, following which an offence was registered. There are 2,000 barometers installed in Mumbai to monitor TRPs, Singh said. BARC is set up to design, commission, supervise and own an accurate, reliable and timely TV audience measurement system and is guided by recommendations of Telecom Regulatory Authority of India and Ministry of Information and Broadcasting. It helps provide data points to plan media spends more effectively. Singh said bank accounts of these channels are also being probed and people responsible for the TRP racket are being summoned by police for further investigation. “Based on these TRP ratings, advertisers pay to advertise on these channels and it is a game of thousands of crore,” Singh said. Manipulated TRP ratings result in miscalculated targeted audience for the advertisers, he said. BARC releases weekly rating points for TV channels in India and its officials are also being questioned in connection with the case, he said. The two channel owners arrested were produced in court and Mumbai police have got their custody till Friday, he said. The arrests were made under sections 409 and 420 of IPC, he added. “We suspect that if this was happening in Mumbai then it could be happening in other parts of the country as well,” he added. “During the investigation it came to light that some former employees of the agency (Hansa) were involved in compromising the data and they were sharing it with some television companies,” he said. It was revealed that these persons had manipulated the sampling metering services by inducing the barometer users through periodical payments to watch particular TV channels, he said. Many people in whose homes these barometers have been installed, have accepted that they were getting monetary benefit for keeping their TV sets on even when they did not watch it, the IPS officer said. This was apparently done for “wrongful gains” of some TV channels and resulted in losses to advertisers and their agencies, he said. “We are also probing if the funds which came to these channels are from proceeds of the crime. Action will be taken accordingly,” Singh said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-623
09-10-2020||India||Congress sniffs iron ore export scam ||The Congress on Thursday said the Narendra Modi-led government allowed illegal export of iron ore to help some private companies evade taxes and earn huge profits, describing it as a scam worth thousands of crores. Demanding a thorough investigation into the matter, the Congress asked the government to release a list of companies that made windfall profits in connivance with the officials of steel and mines ministries as, apart from financial misdeeds, the scam involved the loot of a precious national resource. Explaining the process of loot, Congress spokesperson Pawan Khera said, “Export of iron ore by India attracts a 30 per cent export duty and, prior to 2014, only government-owned Metals and Minerals Trading Corporation of India (MMTC) was allowed to export iron ore. Even MMTC was only allowed to export iron ore with 64 per cent concentration of iron (Fe). Any export that exceeded this cap required permission from the government. The export cap was placed on iron ore to ensure that there is sufficient supply of high quality iron ore back home to facilitate the growth of indigenous steel plants.” He said, the Modi government in 2014 removed the 64 per cent iron concentration cap and gave Kudremukh Iron Ore Company Limited (KIOCL) permission to export to countries such as China, Taiwan, South Korea and Japan. “Officials in the steel ministry decided that iron ore exports will continue to have a 30 per cent duty on them but there would be no duty if it is exported as pellets. Despite KIOCL being the only company that had permission to export iron ore, several private firms have indulged in the export of iron ore in the form of pellets, escaping duty on these exports and earning immeasurable profits,” he added. The Congress spokesperson said these private firms are estimated to have exported iron ore worth Rs 40,000 crore since 2014 in violation of law because they did not have the licence. Even private firms that had iron ore mines for personal consumption started exporting iron ore pellets. “By not paying the export duty, the private players have robbed the government of around Rs 12,000 crore in duty fee. Under the Foreign Trade Development and Regulation Act, 1992, these private players are liable to a penalty of Rs 200,000 crore for this gross illegality,” Khera said. Though this matter has been raised by steel companies all these years, the ministry of law and justice finally specified on September 10 this year that the permission to export iron ore pellets was only given to KIOCL and the export by other companies “is illegal not just under the Foreign Trade Development and Regulation Act (1992), but is also a serious offence under the Customs Act 1962”, he added. Describing this as a scam and loot, Khera asked: “Why was high quality iron ore with greater than 64 per cent iron concentration allowed to be exported contrary to earlier practices? Which private firms have exported iron ore without permission since 2014? A detailed list must be made public. Since 2014, has the government questioned any private entity regarding their illegal dealings vis-à-vis iron ore export? What action has been initiated, if any, against the officials of the steel ministry who allowed illegal export to take place? Was the change in policy of removing export duty for iron ore pellets done in consultation with all stakeholders?”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-623
09-10-2020||India||Hathras rape case: Teesta Setalvad’s NGO files witness protection plea in Supreme Court||Citizens for Justice and Peace (CJP), an NGO, on Thursday filed an intervention application before the Supreme Court in the Hathras gang-rape-and-murder case, urging it to ensure proper protection to witnesses and transfer of the trial to Delhi. Run by prominent Gujarat-based activist Teesta Setalvad, the CJP has pleaded that as a human rights organisation with a long history of defending victims against the mighty state, in the courts and beyond, it felt compelled to move the Supreme Court “primarily since there are widespread news reports attributed to senior police officials and elected representatives who are trying to underplay the heinous and actually prejudging the issues. For example, there are reports of a senior police officer saying that there was no sexual assault”. “It is rather alarming that an officer at that level is making these public statements when investigation is still in progress and the final outcome would be post the trial. It is rather alarming that when this Hon’ble Court has repeatedly stated that cases of sexual violence have to be handled with utmost sensitivity, these brazen statements are being made in the public domain,” the application filed through advocate Aparna Bhat stated. “In these circumstances, having had the experience of working with victims who were threatened and intimidated by the mighty state in the past… the application is bona fide and made in the interests of justice,” it added. According to the CJP, its plea on several pertinent human rights aspects appeared to have been ignored in this case so far. “For example, should one not take into consideration the rights of the deceased? This matter becomes significant in the light of allegations of forced cremation of the victim’s body by police in the middle of the night, denying her family the right to take her body back to the village. Given that the family hails from the historically oppressed Dalit community, and several ‘upper-caste’ groups are allegedly attempting to spin the narrative, the safety of the family is also of paramount importance. Thus, witness protection is another aspect of the case that CJP wants to highlight,” the application said. The organisation also sought to bring to light the following facts for the top court’s considerations: It has also sought the following directions from the court:||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-623
