10-10-2020||India||Pompeo slams China's aggressive military behaviour||China has amassed more than 60,000 troops on India's northern border, US Secretary of State Mike Pompeo has said as he hit out at Beijing for its "bad behaviour" and the threats it poses to the Quad countries. The foreign ministers from the Indo-Pacific nations, known as the Quad group - the US, Japan, India and Australia - met in Tokyo on Tuesday in what was their first in-person talks since the coronavirus pandemic began. The meeting took place in the backdrop of China's aggressive military behaviour in the Indo-Pacific, South China Sea and along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) in eastern Ladakh. "The Indians are seeing 60,000 Chinese soldiers on their northern border," Pompeo told The Guy Benson Show in an interview on Friday after his return from Tokyo wherein he attended the second Quad ministerial with his counterparts from India, Japan and Australia. "I was with my foreign minister counterparts from India, Australia, and Japan a format that we call the Quad, four big democracies, four powerful economies, four nations, each of whom has real risk associated with the threats imposed attempting to be imposed by the Chinese Communist Party. And they see it in their home countries too," he said. Pompeo met External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar in Tokyo on Tuesday and they underscored the need to work together to advance, peace, prosperity and security in the Indo-Pacific and around the globe. He described his meeting with Jaishankar as "productive." "They see, the people of their (Quad) nations understanding that we all slept on this for too long. For decades, the West allowed the Chinese Communist Party to walk all over us. The previous administration bent a knee, too often allowed China to steal our intellectual properties and the millions of jobs that came along with it. They see that in their country too," he said in the interview. In another interview with Larry O'Connor, Pompeo said in his meetings with his counterparts from Japan, India and Australia, they began to develop a set of understandings and policies that can jointly take these countries to work to present a true resistance to the threats that the Chinese Communist Party poses to each of these nations. "They absolutely need the United States to be their ally and partner in this fight," he said. "But they've all seen it, whether it's the Indians, who are actually having a physical confrontation with the Chinese up in the Himalayas in the northeastern part of India, the Chinese have now begun to amass huge forces against India in the north whether it's the Australians who did the simple thing of saying the Chinese screwed this deal up with the virus, and we'd like to understand what happened and said we ought to have a full investigation, and in exchange for that, the Chinese Communist Party began to extort, coerce, bully the Australians, Pompeo said. Every one of these countries has seen this, he said, adding that people in each of these countries now understand the Chinese Communist Party presents a threat to them. "The world has awakened. The tide's begun to turn. And the United States under President Trump's leadership has now built out a coalition that will push back against the threat and maintain good order, the rule of law, and the basic civic decency that comes from democracies controlling the world and not authoritarian regimes," Pompeo said. In his third-interview to Fox News, Pompeo said that the US under Trump administration has begun to build out all the edifice of the structure and the allies and the coalition to push back against China. "We aim to protect the American people from the threat that the Chinese Communist Party poses," he said. Referring to his Quad ministerial meeting, Pompeo said that the three other countries Japan, India, and Australia were building out a coalition, build partners and allies around the world who understand the threat from the Chinese Communist Party in the same way that "we do so that they can protect jobs here at home". "Look, they've stacked 60,000 soldiers against the Indians in the north. When the Australians had the temerity to ask for an investigation of the Wuhan virus and where it began, something that we know a lot about, the Chinese Communist Party threatened them. They bullied them, Pompeo told Fox News. "We need partners and friends. They'll certainly try to react. But what the Chinese Communist Party had become accustomed to, frankly, for an awfully long time was watching America bend a knee, watching us turn the other cheek and appease them," he said. "That only encouraged their bad behaviour, their malign activity. Our push back they understand we're serious about it. They've watched that we're going to confront them and impose costs upon them. I am confident that this activity, over time, will change the nature of what the Chinese Communist Party tries to do to harm America, Pompeo said. India is expanding bilateral cooperation with Japan, the US and Australia in the Indo-Pacific region. The US has been pushing for a greater role for India in the Indo-Pacific which is seen by many countries as an effort to contain China's growing clout in the region.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-620
10-10-2020||India||Centre issues fresh advisory to states for women's safety||The Centre has issued a fresh advisory to states and UTs on mandotary action in cases of crimes against women, and said probe into rape cases must be completed within two months as per law and that dying declaration of a victim can't be discarded merely because it has not been recorded by a magistrate. The detailed three-page advisory of the Union Home Ministry came days after the alleged gangrape and murder of a woman at Hathras in Uttar Pradesh sparked nationwide outrage. The home ministry said there should be compulsory registration of an FIR in case of a cognisable offence under the CrPC, and any failure of police to adhere to laid down rules does not augur well for the delivery of justice. The law also enables the police to register an FIR or a "Zero FIR", in case the crime is committed outside the jurisdiction of police station, in the event of receipt of information on commission of a cognisable offence, which includes cases of sexual assault on women, the ministry said. "However, even with stringent provisions in law and several capacity building measures undertaken, any failure of police to adhere to these mandatory requirements may not augur well for the delivery of criminal justice in the country, especially in the context of women safety," it said. "Such lapses, if noticed, need to be investigated into and stringent action taken immediately against the concerned officers responsible for the same," the advisory to states and Union Territory administrations said. The home ministry told the states and UT administrations that the Section 173 of CrPC provides for completion of police investigation in relation to rape in two months and Section 164-A of CrPC provides that in rape or sexual assault investigation, the victim should be examined by a registered medical practitioner under consent within twenty-four hours from the time of receiving the information relating to the commission of such offence. The advisory said the Indian Evidence Act, 1872, provides that the statement, written or verbal by a person, who is dead, shall be treated as relevant fact in the investigation when the statement is made by a person as to the cause of his (or her) death or as to any of the circumstances of the transaction which resulted in his (or her) death. "Hon'ble Supreme Court in its order dated 7th January 2020.....directed that a particular statement, when being offered as dying declaration and satisfies all the requirements of judicial scrutiny, cannot be discarded merely because it has not been recorded by a Magistrate or that the police officer did not obtain attestation by any person present at the time of making of the statement, it said. It is necessary to use the Sexual Assault Evidence Collection (SAEC) kits in every case of sexual assault reported for which the home ministry has been regularly conducting training and Training of Trainers (TOT) programmes on procedure for collection, preservation and handling of forensic evidence for police and prosecutors and medical officers respectively. In order to facilitate the state police to monitor compliance, the home ministry said, an online portal called Investigation Tracking System for Sexual Offences (ITSSO) for monitoring the same has been available exclusively to law enforcement officers. The states and UTs were advised to use the national database on sexual offenders for identifying and tracking repeat sexual offenders etc. The home ministry also mentioned about the previous advisories sent by it on the issue of crimes against women and pro-active police action on May 16, 2019, December 5, 2019, Standard Operating Procedure (SOP) for Investigation and Prosecution of Rape against Women issued by BPR&D and distribution of SAEC kits. "The Government of India has taken steps to strengthen legislative provisions to deal with incidents of sexual offences against women and girls," it said. "It is requested that States and UTs, may suitably issue instructions to all concerned to ensure strict compliance with the provisions in the law...It is also requested to monitor the cases on ITSSO to ensure that suitable follow up action is taken for the charge-sheet of the guilty in a timely manner as required in the law, the advisory said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-620
10-10-2020||India||Scientists call Modi turbine suggestion impractical and outlandish||Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s question whether a wind turbine could be a three-in-one device to extract energy, water and oxygen from the air hangs somewhere between outlandish and impractical, sections of scientists said on Friday. Modi, during a recent conversation with the head of a Danish wind-turbine maker, had asked whether a turbine could be used to harvest water from moisture in the air and oxygen too, thus serving as a three-in-one machine. The Prime Minister’s suggestion and Vestas CEO Henrik Andersen’s response that he might invite Modi to Denmark as an “idea generator” for that country’s research and engineering community have drawn political taunts and support. Some scientists, ignoring the politics, brainstormed on the challenge. Some said the challenge is: can the energy from a wind turbine be used into processes that can produce both water and oxygen? The uncertainty and impracticality emerges from energy economics. “The engineer in me says, basically, yes, if you give me a source of power, I could use it to run some process,” said a Mumbai-based senior researcher. “It is a matter of cost. What is the cost per litre of water generated this way versus the use of grid power or some other source of energy such as solar power? This is a question of economics, not science. Like solar refrigeration, possible, but what is the cost compared to the alternative?” Pure oxygen extraction from air may require fractional distillation, which is expensive and super energy intensive, the researcher said. Oxygen enrichment is possible through the use of materials called zeolites, which is how most portable oxygen concentrators work. Another researcher pointed out that passive water extraction technologies are already in operation and do not require energy. These technologies involve systems that cool down at night and have a large surface area to achieve water extraction. Engineers at the Delft University of Technology in the Netherlands had 12 years ago demonstrated a prototype wind turbine that they proposed could be used for seawater desalination. While a traditional windmill drives a pump, the Delft engineers had proposed a high-pressure pump that pushes water through a reverse osmosis membrane to produce fresh water directly from seawater. The technology was intended for deployment in coastal areas.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-620
10-10-2020||India||Shashi, prove ’em silly by finishing idli pile. No sambar!   ||Edward Anderson, a British historian, has set the pot — and much more — boiling for a few hours by declaring “idli are the most boring things in the world”. Shashi Tharoor’s son, Ishaan, a foreign affairs columnist for the New Yorker, was the first to weigh in: “I think I’ve encountered the most offensive take on Twitter.” He was backed up by his father, the MP of Thiruvananthapuram in Kerala: “Yes, my son, there are some who are truly challenged in this world. Civilisation is hard to acquire: the taste & refinement to appreciate idlis, enjoy cricket, or watch ottamthullal (a dance and poetic performance) is not given to every mortal. Take pity on this poor man, for he may never know what Life can be.” Anderson did add: “P.S. Before the whole of south India attacks me, can I just say that I love dosa and appam and basically all south Indian food. But idli (and puttu for that matter) are insufferable.” Puttu is a cylindrical rice cake. Some largely good-natured ribbing — although not all were amused — followed with many Indians joining in. The “news” made it to the American CNN, too, which opted for British humour by suggesting the historian’s idli tweet “did not go down well”. Anderson told BBC that as far as the “fun responses go, some have been brilliant. And a lot of people have made the very valid point that it is a bit rich for a Britisher to criticise Indian food as being bland!” The Twitter bake-off ended (or took an idli break) with a gracious addition by Anderson: “Fantastic. My stupid idli comment has now been connected — ever so tenuously — to the US election. For the record: I love Indian food... and especially south Indian food! (Just not idlis).” He was referring to a report that mentioned Kamala Harris, the US Democratic candidate for Vice-President, saying her late mother, Shyamala Gopalan, “always wanted to instil in us, a love of good idli”. Tharoor Senior responded: “At least now, Anderson, you know idlis aren’t boring! Would a mere roti have stirred up such a viral row on social media? Let alone a Yorkshire pudding?” Anderson is no stranger to either India or idlis. He works on the history and politics of modern and contemporary India and Britain. His research focuses on the Indian diaspora, transnational politics, religious nationalism, and British histories of migration, ethnicity and multiculturalism. Perhaps most relevant to the debate is his wife’s ethnic identity — some would say he speaks from experience. He told the BBC he had had “many idlis in his life mainly in India — I’ve spent a lot of time there over the years and my wife is from Kerala. Idlis regularly feature at breakfast with the in-laws.” After the entire idly exchange, one titbit of information did stand out. Willy nilly, or idly nilly, it came across that like most carbohydrates, the enticement of the dish is greatly enhanced by the accompaniments. Tharoor himself gave it away in a tweet while cuddling the idli. “Try it with a plate of steaming idlis, accompanied by coconut chutney with a garnish of mustard seeds, a red-chilli-and-onion samandi & some molagapodi w/melted ghee. If the idli batter has been fermented right, it’s the closest thing to heaven on this earth!” Molagapodi is the world-famous “gunpowder” that can go with idli as well as dosa. Many have idlis with sambar, too. Sriram Aylur, executive chef of Quilon, an upmarket south Indian restaurant in London, told The Telegraph in loving detail about the joys and pitfalls of idli. “Any carbohydrate on its own can be boring — rice can be boring. Idli has to be well made, soft and fluffy. It is meant to enhance taste. It depends where Anderson had his idli.” “Idli is a simple dish but you have to follow certain procedures,” he added. Not that everyone needs accompaniments to demolish mountainous quantities of fluffy idlis. Most idli-eating competitions begin with a round of plain idlis and water with no companion dishes. Perhaps, the Tharoors should take up such a challenge because as the cliché goes, the proof of the idli is in the eating. Will it be a cakewalk for the Tharoors, or will Anderson be tucking into the pudding?||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-621
10-10-2020||India||NRI quota in medical not must: Supreme Court ||The Supreme Court on Friday ruled that candidates have no vested automatic right to admissions under the NRI quota for undergraduate and postgraduate medical/dental courses in private colleges as it is the discretion of the managements to confer such benefit. However, a bench of Justices L. Nageswara Rao and S. Ravindra Bhat directed Mahatma Gandhi University of Medical Sciences, Rajasthan, to conduct a special counselling session for a group of doctors seeking admission under the NRI quota in postgraduate seats, since the special quota was abruptly withdrawn by the private colleges after inviting aspirants for the admission process. The court said that the NRI aspirants should be admitted solely on the basis of merit.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-621
10-10-2020||India||Fee hike worry over Delhi University funds proposal ||Delhi University has committed to raise Rs 334 crore internally in the next four years to implement the projects planned under the Institution of Eminence (IoE) scheme, a proposal many faculty members have opposed because it would result in increase in tuition fees. The university’s Executive Council will meet on Saturday to clear the proposal. The agenda copy for the council meeting has attached the details of funding of new centres the university would set up under the scheme. The university has already got IoE status. The Centre will give Rs 1,000 crore to the university by 2024-25, while the institution will have to arrange another Rs 334 crore, it said. “The University of Delhi shall endeavour to continue to charge and revise fees for its various courses and facilities, keeping in view the need to make quality higher education accessible to the poorest of the poor in this country and also from African, Asian and Latin American countries,” the agenda copy said. Aditya Narayan Mishra, a faculty member, said the university would be forced to increase fees to raise the funds it had committed. Currently, the tuition fees in colleges and university departments are below Rs 100 a month. “Increase in fees will deny education to poor students at DU. Over 60 per cent of students of the university are from SC, ST, backward classes and economically weaker sections. They will be discouraged to study at DU,” Mishra said. A group of teachers has written to the DU Teachers’ Association to build up a strong protest against the move which, they fear, will lead to privatisation of the university.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-621
10-10-2020||India||Yechury flags concern on BJP poll cash ||CPM general secretary Sitaram Yechury wrote to chief election commissioner Sunil Arora on Friday, highlighting concerns over opaque political funding and the lack of a level playing field with the BJP in the upcoming Bihar polls. In his letter, Yechury questioned the Election Commission of India’s ability to ensure a level playing field due to the pending electoral bond case in the Supreme Court. “You are aware, as much as we are, that the EC earlier had told the SC that electoral bonds will signal ‘serious repercussions on the transparency aspect of political funding of political parties’… Since the matter is now pending with the Hon’ble Supreme Court, the question is, how the Election Commission will discharge the mandate of Article 324 in ensuring a free and fair poll in Bihar and a level playing field,” Yechury wrote. The court has refused to stay the scheme that offers anonymity to political donors although it has asked all parties to give details of bonds received to the EC by May 30 in sealed covers. Yechury added that the BJP enjoyed a “disproportionate advantage” over other parties in the use of mass media and has reportedly misused social media to “to build a narrative based on fake news”. He said, “On the eve of the 2019 general election, the then BJP president Amit Shah had publicly stated that the party, with its network of 32 lakh WhatsApp groups, can make any message, true or false, viral within hours. Add to this, the finding of international fact-check websites that an overwhelming majority of fake news is generated in India. And now on the eve of the Bihar elections, the party has kicked off a virtual election campaign by putting up 72,000 LED TV monitors for Shah’s speech… Obviously, the anonymous corporate funds without any upper ceiling will certainly be the death knell for electoral democracy.” The BJP bagged 92.94 per cent of all corporate donations made to parties between 2016 and 2018. The CPM is contesting only four out of the 243 Assembly seats in the three-phase Bihar polls that begin later this month. It is part of the Rashriya Janata Dal-led Mahagathbandhan (Grand Alliance) of Opposition parties in Bihar. “The issue of use of social media by political parties has assumed new significance in the light of the exposure on the BJP’s involvement in the spread of misogyny and hate on social media. The report in The Wall Street Journal has opened the floodgate of more factual details about how Facebook and Twitter have been complicit in turning a blind eye to BJP’s divisive campaign on the strength of its substantial investment through advertisement in the social media platform along with its associates. This is in addition to its use of WhatsApp messages to build a narrative based on fake news,” he said. The EC is yet to respond to the letter.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-621
10-10-2020||India||Rahul questions Modi turbine idea, ministers hit back||If politics is so bitterly divided, even a flight of imagination raises a dust. This was manifest on Friday yet again when Congress leader Rahul Gandhi taunted Prime Minister Narendra Modi for asking if turbines could be used to create drinking water from the excess moisture in air as well as separating oxygen from air. The query, which would have withstood scrutiny and critical evaluation had it been the product of a youngster’s creative thinking, triggered a political slugfest because the Prime Minister of India had made the suggestion in a formal conversation with Henrik Andersen, president and CEO of Vestas, a Danish company that manufactures wind turbines. The principal Opposition leader, instead of laughing off the impractical idea, chose to point out what was wrong. “The real danger to India isn’t that our Prime Minister doesn’t understand. It’s the fact that nobody around him has the guts to tell him,” Rahul wrote, posting the two-day-old video on Twitter. While many Congress workers and other social media users made fun of the Prime Minister, recalling his earlier questionable comments on matters related to science, the party’s official Twitter handle also ridiculed Modi saying he was playing the role of a scientist after ruining the economy. Former Union minister Jairam Ramesh sarcastically said, referring to Modi’s educational qualifications: “This is what happens when you have an MA in entire political SCIENCE.” The Prime Minister had tweeted after the conversation: “Had an insightful interaction with Mr Henrik Andersen, President and CEO, @Vestas. We discussed a series of issues relating to the wind energy sector. Highlighted some of India’s efforts to harness renewable energy in order to build a cleaner future for the coming generations.” Modi had asked whether turbines could be used to create clean drinking water from excess moisture in air and whether this could also be used to separate oxygen from air. He had wondered if the same turbine could be used to manufacture oxygen, clean drinking water and energy with some technological advancement. A smiling Andersen had replied: “…Come visit me in Denmark, you can be the idea developer for our research development. I can’t say how pleased I am with your ideas.” A visibly elated Modi had burst into laughter. It is true that many scientific ideas have been laughed off and have appeared improbable at the beginning but have germinated into reality. But Congress leaders insisted that it was Modi’s track record of floating seemingly weird ideas — closer to fantasy and superstition than to science — that had prompted such a sardonic reaction from Rahul. They recalled Modi’s claim that Lord Ganesha’s head was one of the first instances of plastic surgery and his arguments on climate change. He had said while talking to students: “Climate change is nothing. People get old and feel more cold than usual. Then they say it is climate change.” Some Congress workers also posted videos of Modi narrating the experience of a tea seller who had used gas from a nullah, through a pipe, to light up his stove. He was also criticised for claiming that he had suggested to the Indian Air Force that they should take advantage of cloudy weather to escape detection by Pakistani radars. BJP ministers and leaders rallied behind Modi on Friday, arguing his idea had been appreciated by Vestas chief Andersen. Modi’s supporters had attributed scientific motives to his calls to the nation during the lockdown — such as banging utensils, clapping and lighting candles on designated dates and times — arguing how his suggestions had been based on calculations to obliterate the coronavirus from India. His supporters had even sung “go corona go” in the hope of beating the global pandemic. Railways minister Piyush Goyal tweeted: “Nobody around Rahul Gandhi has the guts to tell him that he doesn’t understand. He mocks PM Narendra Modi’s ideas when the CEO of the world’s leading company endorses them.” Minister of state for home Kiren Rijiju tweeted: “…Narendra Modi ji speaks after deep research, understanding of subjects….”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-621
10-10-2020||India||NHRC asks AIIMS, New Delhi to address caste discrimination allegations||The National Human Rights Commission (NHRC) has asked the All India Institute of Medical Sciences, New Delhi, to address allegations by a postgraduate doctor who is a Scheduled Caste candidate that a selection panel had rejected him for a post for “extraneous reasons”. Harjit Singh Bhatti, an MD in geriatric medicine from the AIIMS itself, has said the panel rejected him even though he was the only candidate who had appeared for the “walk-in” interview for a contractual post of an assistant professor in geriatric medicine. Bhatti, in a complaint to the NHRC, has accused the panel of discriminating against him on the basis of caste and pointed out that he had from time to time raised issues relating to basic facilities for staff at the AIIMS. Earlier this year, he had pointed to shortages in personal protective equipment. A top AIIMS official has said the allegations are not true. “Dr Bhatti appeared for the interview where an external expert evaluated him, including his research and publications,” the official told The Telegraph. The decision was based on the experts’ assessment and grading, the official said. The NHRC, taking note of the complaint, on Friday wrote to the AIIMS director seeking appropriate action on the complaint that, it said, has alleged caste-based harassment, humiliation and discrimination. The NHRC has sought an “action taken report” from the institute within four weeks. “The Commission, generally, does not entertain the complaints relating to service-related grievances, but the allegations of caste-based discrimination and right to health of the elderly people amid the Covid-19 pandemic are a matter of concern for the Commission,” the NHRC said in its note. Bhatti, who graduated from the Government Medical College in Jabalpur and obtained his MD degree from the AIIMS, also spent three additional years at the institute as a senior resident in geriatric medicine. He had applied for the contractual position advertised by the AIIMS on August 10 this year asking candidates to appear for a “walk-in” interview on August 25. Bhatti said he was the only candidate to appear for this post, but was still rejected. Bhatti, in his complaint, has said that besides his AIIMS experience, he also has four research publications, two in collaboration with the pharmacology department, which demonstrate capacity for interdisciplinary research. A senior AIIMS faculty member familiar with these developments has told this newspaper that the panel’s rejection of Bhatti appears to be in line with a tradition of embracing extraneous considerations, including caste-based discrimination, during selections and promotions. A three-member expert panel led by former UGC chairperson S.K. Thorat had a decade ago documented caste-discrimination against SC students at the AIIMS. The panel had noted that this discrimination manifests itself as “contempt, discouragement and differential treatment.”The faculty member believes Bhatti has also likely been the victim of such discrimination. “It could be for caste or for his decision to raise genuine issues relating to PPEs,” the faculty member said. “Nobody records such reasons.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-621
10-10-2020||India||Hathras rape case: Video of UP police burning victim’s body||A television channel has aired footage showing a group in uniform and plainclothes preparing a pyre over a body wrapped in white cloth, pouring the contents of a jerry can and setting it alight purportedly at Hathras in Uttar Pradesh. The father of the Dalit teenager who was brutalised and murdered last month in Hathras said the clips showed police burning the body of his daughter on September 30.  The father said he could recognise all the individuals in the footage as local policemen he had seen during visits to the police station and interactions since the death of his daughter. Uttar Pradesh police denied that they had forcibly burnt the body of the Hathras victim. State additional director-general of police (law and order) Praveen Kumar said he did “not recognise” the video. He accused the family of the Hathras girl of changing their statement “for reasons best known to them”. “Whatever was done there was done with the consent of the family. Some of the family members were present at the cremation site and all the rituals were followed,” Kumar added. Narendra Pratap, the reporter who gathered the clips, told The Telegraph on phone: “I stand by the story. It is true that the girl’s body was burnt by the policemen.” If the veracity of the footage and the identity of the body are established, it will be clearest proof yet that the girl’s immediate family was shut out of the last rites. The suspicions and allegations shrouding the cremation had served to transform the tragedy into a national issue, lending credence to suggestions that the government was keen to hush up the matter. The Uttar Pradesh home department had left that matter vague in an affidavit to the Supreme Court earlier this week, merely referring to “family members” without identifying them by relation. “The extraordinary circumstances and sequence of unlawful incidents… forced the district administration to take the extraordinary step of cremating the victim at night in presence of family members who agreed to attend to avoid further violence,” the state government’s affidavit had said. “The cremation of the victim was performed with full rites and customs,” the affidavit had added subsequently. If the authenticity of the latest clips is upheld, it would also raise questions whether emptying the contents of a jerry can meets the description of “rites and customs”. The latest footage, which appeared to have been shot on a mobile phone, shows men in plainclothes and in uniform placing logs, planks and dried dung on a body wrapped in a white cloth and setting the mound on fire by pouring the contents of a white container. The family has accused the police of forcibly burning the body of the victim after locking them up. An uncle of the girl had said he had been forcibly taken by the police to the site of the burning to register the token presence of a family member. On September 30 night, television news channels had shown footage of the alleged burning of the body from a distance. The clips aired on Friday are far more clear. Prem Prakash Meena, subdivisional magistrate of Hathras district, had told reporters on September 30 that “the family members of the victim were present during the cremation. We have made many videos of their presence during the last rites of the victim.” The controversy can be set to rest if edited excerpts of the video — showing the family members with their identity masked — are made public or shown to a group of independent observers or a civil society group. For some reason, the Yogi Adityanath government has not taken such an initiative so far. The father of the victim told reporters in Hathras on Friday: “We are not surprised to see the video and can identify every policeman in it, even if they are in plainclothes. We knew what exactly happened that day as some villagers were present there. The policemen brought my daughter’s body from Safdarjung Hospital in Delhi in an ambulance. The ambulance was parked in front of our house for a few minutes. Then some policemen locked the door of our house from outside and took the body to an agricultural field and burnt her hurriedly by using cow dung and wood collected from Rajput households in the village.” The four persons arrested for the gang rape and murder of the girl belong to the Rajput caste. The father of the girl said no tradition or ritual was followed. “The video exposes the Yogi Adityanath government’s false affidavit in the Supreme Court that (the cremation) was done according to our wishes and because there was apprehension of violence. The government has lied to the Supreme Court.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-621
10-10-2020||India||Chirag Paswan letter to J.P. Nadda leaked||A letter purportedly written by Lok Janshakti Party chief Chirag Paswan to BJP national president J.P. Nadda recounting instances where Bihar chief minister Nitish Kumar had allegedly insulted his father Ram Vilas Paswan and him was leaked on Thursday night around the time the LJP founder passed away. The letter has raised eyebrows in the political circles and speculation over its purpose because of the details hitherto unknown in the public as well as its timing. The missive throws light on the reasons on why Chirag cannot patch up with Nitish and his Janata Dal United (JDU) despite the upcoming Assembly elections. Written on September 24, a day before the Bihar elections were announced, the letter points out that apart from the six Lok Sabha seats, a Rajya Sabha seat was promised to Ram Vilas during the seat-sharing deal for the 2019 general elections in the presence of then BJP president Amit Shah, Nitish and LJP leaders. “However, Nitish refused to support Ram Vilas just before the Rajya Sabha polls and the latter was forced to go to his residence to placate him. Nitish’s behaviour was not appropriate when he (Ram Vilas) went to his house. The chief minister did not come to the nomination despite my father’s repeated requests. He came only after the muhurta (auspicious time) of nomination had passed. All these have led to much resentment among our leaders and workers,” Chirag said in the letter. “Nitish even refused to acknowledge that my father was ill when mediapersons asked him a question on it. This was at a time when the President, the Prime Minister and top leaders cutting across party lines were concerned about his health and wished speedy recovery. The chief minister’s behaviour was insensitive,” he added. Chirag accused Nitish of not consulting anybody from his party on the coronavirus pandemic, and not meeting, talking to him or replying to his letters despite seeking time to discuss the “Bihar first, Bihari first” campaign. He also asserted that the ruling NDA was still working on the agenda fixed by the Opposition Grand Alliance of which Nitish’s JDU was a partner earlier. Chirag, who has been on the warpath with Nitish for the last few months and has refused to acknowledge the chief minister’s development schemes in Bihar, asserted that he refused to take in migrant workers returning from other states during the lockdown, and did nothing to alleviate the flood affected despite ruling for 15 years. “There is a distinct wave against Nitish in the state. The BJP at present is capable of winning the elections on its own chief ministerial candidate. I am busy tending to my ill father and encouraging our party workers to ensure the victory of the NDA, but some JDU leaders are calling me Kalidas, middleman, and are threatening to break my nose and mouth during this difficult time for me,” Chirag said. The LJP chief voiced full faith and dedication towards the BJP and Prime Minister Narendra Modi, but said “such words by some leaders will cause friction between our parties”. He also asked Nadda to free him to choose an independent path if the BJP was facing any problem in the Bihar alliance due to him or his party, but assured that any fresh step would not be against the interests of the BJP. Chirag has vowed to put up candidates against the JDU during the elections but has professed full support to the BJP. He has already announced 40 candidates, who could queer the pitch for the JDU in the polls. Besides, many of the LJP candidates are those who have quit the BJP and the RSS recently to contest elections, indicating that it could be a brainchild of top leaders from the saffron party to undermine Nitish and ride to power in the post-poll scenario. “The timing of the release of the letter is significant. It tends to discredit Nitish in the eyes of the Scheduled Castes ahead of the polls for allegedly humiliating Ram Vilas. This may influence the pattern of voting. Secondly, Chirag, by taking the onus on himself, tries to absolve the BJP of allegations of scheming against Nitish,” a senior JDU leader told The Telegraph on the condition of anonymity. A few political leaders from different parties said the letter was aimed at gathering the sympathy of voters, especially those hailing from the Scheduled Castes. Ram Vilas’s body was brought to the Patna airport on a special flight of the Indian Air Force on Friday evening, where Nitish and senior BJP leaders, including Sushil Kumar Modi, paid floral tributes. The cremation is expected to take place on Saturday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-621
