11-10-2020||India||Hathras victim's family to appear before Allahabad HC on Monday||The family members of a 19-year-old Dalit woman, who died after allegedly being raped by four men in Uttar Pradesh's Hathras district, will appear before the Lucknow bench of the Allahabad High Court amid tight security on Monday. The court will record the version of the victim's family members in the case. It had on October 1 asked the woman's parents to come to apprise it of their version of the incident. The hearing is likely to be held in-person. The court had ordered the Hathras district administration to arrange for the family's travel. The case is listed for hearing before a division bench of Justice Pankaj Mithal and Justice Rajan Roy at 2:15 PM. The high court had directed the district judge to ensure that the victim's family members appear before it on Monday. It has also summoned additional chief secretary, home; director general of police; ADG, law and order; and district magistrate and superintendent of police of Hathras to furnish the status report of the investigation in the case. The state government has asked additional advocate general V K Sahi to represent it before the court. "The district judge, who has been appointed as the nodal officer for the appearance of the Hathras victim's family members before the high court, is in touch with it as to when the case is listed. The family will move accordingly. The family is in Hathras as of now," Superintendent of Police (SP) Vineet Jaiswal told PTI on Sunday morning. Police did not divulge the details of their security plan on the movement of the woman's family members. Sixty security personnel have been deployed and eight closed-circuit television (CCTV) cameras installed at the victim's house to ensure the safety of her family members, according to the police. With the help of CCTV cameras, the victim's house is being monitored round-the-clock, the police said. Jaiswal said a register of visitors is being maintained by policemen deployed at the entrance of the house. Deputy Inspector General of Police Shalabh Mathur, who has been sent to Hathras from Lucknow as a nodal officer, had on Friday said if needed, a control room would also be established. "Shocked" by the murder and alleged gang-rape of the Dalit woman and the subsequent forcible cremation, the Lucknow bench of the Allahabad High Court had on October 1 summoned top government officials. Taking suo motu cognisance of the case, which has triggered widespread outrage, a division bench of Justice Rajan Roy and Justice Jaspreet Singh had ordered the Uttar Pradesh additional chief secretary, state police chief and an additional director general of police to appear before it on October 12 to explain the incident. "The incidents which took place after the death of the victim on September 29, 2020, leading up to her cremation, as alleged, have shocked our conscience. Therefore, we are taking suo moto cognisance of the same," the bench had said in its order.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-618
11-10-2020||India||Aamir Khan’s daughter Ira Khan reveals she suffers from clinical depression||Superstar Aamir Khan's daughter, Ira Khan, has revealed that she has clinical depression.

On World Mental Health Day, Ira Khan shared a video on Instagram.

The theatre director said it's time to "start a conversation" around mental wellbeing. "I am depressed. I have been for more than four years now. I have been to a doctor and I am clinically depressed. I am doing much better now,” she said.

"For over a year now, I wanted to do something for mental health, but I wasn't sure what to do," the 23-year-old said in the video.

Ira Khan, who made her directorial debut with a play last year, said she has decided to chronicle her journey with the hope that it will help people in knowing themselves "slightly better" and "understand mental illness better".

"Let's start from where I started. What do I have to be depressed about? Who am I to be depressed? I have everything, right?" she said in the one minute-long clip.

Ira Khan said a lot has been going on in people's lives as they navigate situations and feelings which are "confusing and stressful".||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-618
11-10-2020||India||Indian looking at several types of Covid-19 vaccines||Union Health Minister Harsh Vardhan said on Sunday that the government had not yet taken a view on granting emergency authorisation to COVID-19 vaccines in India, as and when they became available.
The minister also said that the indigenously developed Feluda paper strip test for SARS-CoV-2 diagnosis could be rolled out in the next few weeks.
“Presently COVID-19 vaccines are in various stages of phases 1, 2 and 3 of human clinical trials, the results of which are awaited,” Vardhan said during an interaction with his social media followers on the fifth episode of his Sunday Samvaad platform.
"Adequate safety and efficacy data is required for emergency use authorisation, vaccine approval for ensuring patient safety. Further course of action will depend on the data generated," he underlined. The minister had earlier said that a COVID-19 vaccine was likely to be available by the first quarter of 2021. Categorically rejecting speculation that the government was prioritizing young and working-class for the COVID-19 vaccine for economic reasons, Vardhan said, “The prioritisation of groups for COVID-19 vaccine shall be based on two key considerations -- occupational hazard and risk of exposure to infection, and the risk of developing severe disease and increased mortality.”
Asked how the government planned to roll out the COVID-19 vaccine, he said that it was anticipated that supplies of vaccines would be available in limited quantities in the beginning.
“In a huge country like India, it is critical to prioritise vaccine delivery based on various factors such as the risk of exposure, comorbidity among various population groups, the mortality rate among COVID-19 cases, and several others," the minister said.
He also added that India was looking at the availability of several different types of vaccines, of which some may be suitable for a particular age group while others may not be so. He reiterated that the most important component of the planning was the cold chain and other logistics to ensure no glitches occurred in vaccine delivery even at the last mile.
On the need to include other candidates of COVID-19 vaccine, Vardhan said considering the large population size of India, one vaccine or vaccine manufacturer will not be able to fulfil the requirements of vaccinating the whole country. "Therefore, we are open to assessing the feasibility of introducing several COVID-19 vaccines in the country as per their availability for the Indian population,” he said.
Sharing his views on public-private partnership during the pandemic, Vardhan said that the present situation demands multiple vaccine partners to ensure maximum vaccination coverage to the Indian population.
He also said that the use of a single vaccine from a certain company should not be seen through a negative lens.
Vardhan also highlighted the need for massive advocacy for building community sensitization activities to understand the reasons for vaccine hesitancy and address them appropriately.Feluda test shows 96 per cent sensitivity On the rollout of the Feluda test, he said that based on tests in over 2,000 patients during the trials at the Institute of Genomics and Integrative Biology (IGIB) and testing in private labs, the test showed 96 pc sensitivity and 98 pc specificity.
“This compares favourably to ICMR's current acceptance criteria of RT-PCR Kit of at least 95 pc sensitivity and at least 99 pc specificity,” he stated. He added that the Feluda paper strip test for SARS-CoV-2 diagnosis had been developed by CSIR-IGIB and had been approved by the Drug Controller General of India for a commercial launch.
"The kit has already been validated by the Department of Atomic Energy's National Centre for Biological Sciences, Bangalore. While I cannot put an exact date on the availability, we should expect this test within the next few weeks," he said.Reinfection misclassification Referring to reports of reinfection surfacing in various states, Vardhan said an analysis by the ICMR has revealed that many cases reported as COVID-19 reinfection have been misclassified because RT-PCR tests can detect dead-virus shed for prolonged periods after recovery.
Actual reinfection would mean a fully recovered person getting infected by a freshly introduced virus in his/her body, belonging to the same or different strain. ICMR is commissioning a study to understand the true burden of re-infected cases. Results will be shared in a couple of weeks," he said.
Currently, two indigenously-developed vaccine candidates, one by Bharat Biotech in collaboration with ICMR and the other by Zydus Cadila Ltd, are in phase 2 of the human clinical trials.
Pune-based Serum Institute of India, which has partnered with AstraZeneca for manufacturing the Oxford COVID-19 vaccine candidate also, is conducting phase 2 and 3 human clinical trials of the candidate in India.Rs 3,000 cr released to states and UTs During the Sunday Samvaad conversation, Vardhan shared that in the first phase the Government of India has released Rs 3,000 crore to states and UTs to battle COVID-19 pandemic.
Almost all, except three states and UTs, have utilized the complete grant given to them: Maharashtra has only used 42.5 pc of the grant followed by Chandigarh at 47.8 pc and Delhi at 75.4 pc, he stated.
In view of the upcoming festivals, Vardhan urged the people to stay away from congregations and diligently follow COVID appropriate behaviour, saying "no religion or God says that you have to celebrate a festival in an ostentatious way".||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-619
11-10-2020||India||Yogi, his police say no one was raped; for them, she was no one, says Rahul Gandhi||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Sunday attacked the Yogi Adityanath dispensation over the death of a Dalit woman from Uttar Pradesh's Hathras who was gang-raped, saying that the chief minister and his police claim no one was raped because for them and many other Indians, she was "no one".

In a tweet, Gandhi said the shameful truth is that many Indians do not consider Dalits, Muslims and tribals to be human.

"The CM & his police say no one was raped because for them, and many other Indians, she was NO ONE," the former Congress chief tweeted. He also tagged a media report, which asked why police were denying rape when the woman repeatedly reported otherwise.

A 19-year-old Dalit woman from Hathras was allegedly raped and attacked by four upper-caste men. She later succumbed to injuries at a Delhi hospital.

The Yogi Adityanath government is fighting severe criticism for its handling of the case, particularly after the local police burnt the woman's body at night without the family's approval. However, officials said the cremation was done "as per the wishes of the family".

The state government has said that some people were trying to foment caste tensions in the aftermath of the incident. Quoting an FSL (forensic science laboratory) report, it has denied the rape charge.

The Centre has issued a notification for the CBI to take over probe into the alleged gang-rape and death of the 19-year-old woman, officials said on Saturday. The CBI has taken over investigation into the alleged gangrape of a Dalit woman in Hathras, Uttar Pradesh on September 14, officials said.
The agency registered an FIR on Sunday morning under Indian Penal Code (IPC) sections related to gangrape and murder, they said.
The case was earlier registered at Chandpa Police Station, in Hathras district of Uttar Pradesh, on a complaint by the victim's brother.
"The complainant had alleged that on 14.09.2020, the accused tried to strangulate his sister in the millet field. The case has been registered by CBI on the request of Uttar Pradesh Government and further Notification from Government of India," CBI Spokesperson RK Gaur said.
The agency has constituted a team to probe the case, he said. Read the full story here||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-619
11-10-2020||India||CBI takes over probe into alleged gangrape of Dalit woman in Hathras||The CBI has taken over investigation into the alleged gangrape of a Dalit woman in Hathras, Uttar Pradesh on September 14, officials said.

The agency registered an FIR on Sunday morning under Indian Penal Code (IPC) sections related to gangrape and murder, they said.

The case was earlier registered at Chandpa Police Station, in Hathras district of Uttar Pradesh, on a complaint by the victim's brother.

"The complainant had alleged that on 14.09.2020, the accused tried to strangulate his sister in the millet field. The case has been registered by CBI on the request of Uttar Pradesh Government and further Notification from Government of India," CBI Spokesperson RK Gaur said.

The agency has constituted a team to probe the case, he said.

The 19-year-old woman died of severe assault injuries at Delhi's Safdarjung Hospital on September 29. She was allegedly gangraped on September 14 by four upper caste men. The visit of a fact-finding team of Left and LJD MPs on Sunday to Hathras, following the alleged gang-rape and death of a Dalit woman, was cancelled after the Uttar Pradesh Police informed it that her family is being shifted to Lucknow for a court appearance, sources in the CPI(M) said.

The family members of the 19-year-old Dalit woman who died at a Delhi hospital after allegedly being raped by four men in Uttar Pradesh's Hathras district will appear before the Lucknow bench of the Allahabad High Court on Monday.

Barely half an hour before the team was to depart from New Delhi, the Uttar Pradesh Police informed that its visit had been cancelled as the woman's family is being shifted to Lucknow for a court appearance on Monday, the sources said.

The team, which comprises Elamaram Kareem and Bikash Ranjan Bhattacharya of the CPI(M), Binoy Vishwam of the CPI and M V Shreyams Kumar of the LJD, was to visit the Hathras rape victim's house and meet her family members, neighbours and others, they said.

The team of MPs also wanted to hold a meeting with the district magistrate and the district police chief to enquire about the safety of the woman's parents and relatives as there were incidents of "constant attacks" on the them, the sources said.

The fact-finding team had decided to submit its report to the president, the chief justice of India and the prime minister after the visit.

Shocked by the incident and her forcible cremation subsequently, the Lucknow bench of the Allahabad High Court on October 1 had summoned top government officials to court.

A division bench of Justice Rajan Roy and Justice Jaspreet Singh had ordered the Uttar Pradesh additional chief secretary, state police chief and an additional director general of police to appear before it on October 12 to explain the incident.

Taking suo motu cognisance of the case, which has triggered widespread outrage, the bench also ordered the Hathras district magistrate and superintendent of police to appear to apprise the court of various aspects of the case, including the ongoing probe into it.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-619
11-10-2020||India||Delhi woman 'becomes' British High Commissioner for a day!||Being the British High Commissioner in India can be a hectic job, and an 18-year-old woman from the national capital experienced this when she held the post for a day.

Chaitanya Venkateswaran from New Delhi had the unique opportunity to spend last Wednesday as the UK's senior-most diplomat in India under the mission's initiative aimed at empowering and highlighting the challenges faced by women across the world.

The British High Commission has been organising the 'High Commissioner for a Day' competition annually since 2017, inviting young Indian women aged 18 to 23 years to take over as their most senior diplomat.

Venkateswaran is the fourth young woman to take over as the British High Commissioner in an annual competition run by the UK mission in celebration of International Day of the Girl Child on October 11, the British High Commission said in a statement.

As the UK's top diplomat here, Venkateswaran's busy day included handing out tasks to the High Commission's department heads, interacting with senior woman police officers, meeting the press, and launching a study tracing the impact of British Council STEM scholarships on Indian women participants.

"I used to visit the British Council library in New Delhi when I was younger, and that's where I cultivated my love of learning. Building on that knowledge, to be the British High Commissioner for a day was a golden opportunity," Venkateswaran said. "My day was full of diverse experiences which have really broadened my perspective on the role of women and their representation in fields of media, policing and STEM. I am now more determined than ever to use my new knowledge and experience to help promote equitable treatment of women everywhere," she said.

Jan Thompson, the Deputy High Commissioner for that day and acting High Commissioner to India on other days, said this competition is one of his favourite moments of the year an opportunity to provide a platform to extraordinary young women, and show how the UK and India are sharing expertise to ensure women and girls reach their full potential around the world.

"I was thrilled to relinquish my duties to Chaitanya for the day and was impressed with how confidently and competently she took on this role, a deserving winner out of an incredible 215 entries," he said.

"In the side-lines of her very busy day as High Commissioner, we also enjoyed discussing our mutual love of the arts. I look forward to seeing what Chaitanya achieves next, as she joins a cohort of young women whose voices we have been proud to amplify through this annual initiative; the next generation of global leaders," Thompson said.

This year, entrants to the competition were invited to submit an one-minute video on social media, answering the question -- 'What global challenges and opportunities do you see for gender equality in the age of COVID-19?'

In line with COVID-19 health and safety precautions, Venkateswaran participated in the day through video conference, but was happy to meet Acting High Commissioner Thompson at a later date for a socially distanced walk.

Venkateswaran, a recent high-school graduate from New Delhi, is pursuing a bachelor's degree with a full scholarship in International Studies and Economics, and certificate programmes in Advanced Leadership Studies and Political Thought at American University, Washington DC, studying remotely.

An active volunteer, she has worked to aid visually-impaired students, acid attack survivors and marginalised LGBT+ groups.

During the day when she was the British High Commissioner, she met with the Editor of Anandabazar Patrika to learn about gender representation in the media industry, discussed gender and policing with senior police officers from Madhya Pradesh and Telangana and interacted with the Marks & Spencer India team.

She also launched the British Council STEM Tracer Study documenting the stories of 166 Indian women scholars and chaired a meeting with youth leaders, including previous competition winners, on some of the biggest challenges facing the world, the statement said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-619
11-10-2020||India||Sikkim says hello to tourists after long gap||Scenic Sikkim welcomed tourists on Saturday after a gap of seven months after Covid-induced curbs on entry of visitors to check the spread of the infection in the tiny Himalayan state. Official data on the number of tourist arrivals was not available, but tourists — both domestic and foreign — entered Sikkim by road and a few by air. Air travel was made possible thanks to the resumption of the helicopter service between Gangtok and Bagdogra coinciding with Unlock 1. According to the guidelines issued by the Sikkim state tourism department, all domestic tourists and foreigners residing in India would be allowed to visit the state in the first phase of resumption. But tourists must first register themselves on the department’s portal and stay in only registered hotels and other accommodation units. However, some tourists had already entered Sikkim in the past few days without registration. A group of four friends from Bihar said they had gone to Sikkim for two days of sightseeing. Asked about the punitive measures to be taken against tourists entering the state without registration, a senior official in the tourism department said action would be initiated against those hotels and accommodation units found entertaining such guests. “Hotels and other accommodations are expected to follow the standard operating procedures (SOPs),” said the official. The SOPs have also asked hotels and other units to limit guests at 50 per cent of their capacity to enforce social distance norms. The 50 per cent cap has also been imposed on restaurants and tourist cabs.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-619
11-10-2020||India||Bullet removed from skull||The Central Referral Hospital (CRH) at Tadong in Gangtok has successfully removed a bullet that was lodged inside the left forehead of a 16-year-old boy for over three months after a homemade gun he had allegedly made opened fire by mistake. The CRH, a constituent of Sikkim Manipal University, said the boy was brought to the hospital with headache, nausea, vomiting and fever. The CT scan and X-ray reported a metallic foreign body inside the skull. A team headed by consultant neurosurgeon of the hospital, Dr Pranav Rai, successfully removed the bullet. According to the hospital, the boy accidentally shot himself while trying out a firearm he had designed after watching online gun-making videos. “The exact details of the events are being investigated by the police...,” said the CRH. “Contrast enhanced CT scan of the brain showed multiple pockets of pus with thickened capsules surrounding the projectile,” the CRH release emailed to The Telegraph said. There was significant edema of the surrounding brain causing dangerous mass effect and impending cerebral herniation, which are life-threatening, it said. Edema is swelling caused by excess fluid trapped in a body’s tissues and cerebral herniation occurs when something inside the skull produces pressure that moves brain tissues. The boy made a “remarkable recovery” without complications, it added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-619
11-10-2020||India||Hathras rape case: Centre’s reminder and Uttar Pradesh stand don’t match||The Union home ministry on Saturday reminded states that dying declarations are to be considered “relevant fact” during an investigation. The reminder was issued at a time Uttar Pradesh police have been accused of contesting the Hathras victim’s last known statement to the investigating officer in which the 19-year-old girl said she was raped by four men. The case was officially handed over to the CBI on Saturday. Referring to the dying declaration, the Union home ministry’s advisory on Saturday to the states and Union Territories said the law “provides that the statement, written or verbal, by a person who is dead shall be treated as relevant fact in the investigation when the statement is made by a person as to the cause of his death, or as to any of the circumstances of the transaction which resulted in death”. The advisory cited a Supreme Court order that said the statement should satisfy “all the requirements of judicial scrutiny” but “cannot be discarded merely because it has not been recorded by a magistrate or that the police officer did not obtain attestation by any person present at the time of making of the statement”. In the Hathras case, the Uttar Pradesh government informed the Supreme Court that the Dalit girl told the investigation officer on September 22 in an Aligarh hospital that she was raped by the four accused and then there was an attempt to strangulate her. A lady head constable was present when the statement was taken and the procedures were videographed. The girl died on September 29 at Safdarjung Hospital in New Delhi. Uttar Pradesh police have contested the rape complaint, citing the lack of sperm in a forensic analysis of samples collected several days after the incident. The police explained the delay by saying the girl first spoke of rape on September 22 after she was attacked on September 14. But the report from the Forensic Science Laboratory, Agra, confirmed two deep injuries in her vagina. Saturday’s Union home ministry advisory said that in crimes against women, an FIR must compulsorily be registered in case of a cognisable offence, public servants should be punished if they failed to do so, investigations into rape complaints must be completed within two months and medical exam of the victim conducted within 24 hours of receiving information of the offence.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-619
11-10-2020||India||Task of bugging China left to Tajinder Bagga||India officially sat out Taiwan’s National Day on Saturday as always and in line with New Delhi’s One-China policy, but not Tajinder Pal Singh Bagga. “Happy National Day Taiwan” posters in the name of Bagga, a Delhi BJP spokesperson, surfaced near the Chinese embassy in the high-security Diplomatic Enclave. The posters had the name of Bagga, who was the BJP’s Hari Nagar candidate in the Assembly elections earlier this year, but did not mention any affiliation. Bagga tweeted a picture of the poster taken in the night and hashtagged it “TaiwanNationalDay”. A PTI report said the posters were subsequently removed during the day by the civic body concerned amid speculation of Bagga having some sanction to put them up, given the tight security in the area. This was clearly not lost on the Chinese. Chinese embassy spokesperson Ji Rong tweeted: “One-China policy is long-standing position of the Indian government. China firmly opposes any individual or any move trying to create ‘two Chinas’ or ‘One-China, one Taiwan’, which violates this position.” Bagga shot back in a tweet: “As Indian, I still stand with One China, 1 Taiwan, 1 Tibet, 1 Hong Kong, 1 Xinjiang.” He uploaded a new profile picture on his Twitter handle, wearing a “Free Tibet” T-shirt with the Tibetan flag. Through the day, the Chinese embassy was busy picking on Indian journalists who commented about Taiwan on social media. They were sent messages that said: “Hope you could stick to Indian government’s position on Taiwan question and do not violate the One-China principle when you do the report.” The journalists were also told that the mission was willing to maintain communication with them individually and their media organisation on China-related reports. This was essentially a repeat of part of the message that was sent to Indian media houses by the Chinese embassy on Wednesday, listing the dos and don’ts on Taiwan’s National Day, bracing for efforts to use the occasion to focus on China’s troubled relationship with Taiwan. The drive, however, did not deter media houses from running discussions on Taiwan’s National Day. Till late in the night, no one from the government greeted Taiwan on its national day.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-619
11-10-2020||India||83-year-old Catholic priest’s arrest unlocks Church voice||The Catholic Church has condemned the arrest of 83-year-old Catholic priest Stanislaus Lourduswamy on sedition charges and demanded his immediate release. Jharkhand chief minister Hemant Soren, economist Jean Dreze and several Christian groups have added their voice to the chorus of condemnation. The statement from the Catholic Bishops Conference of India (CBCI), the apex body of the Catholic Church in the country, stood out for two reasons. One, there has been a perception that sections of the Church establishment have been somewhat reluctant to speak out of late because of the Narendra Modi government’s crackdown on foreign sources of funds. Two, the CBCI statement focused only on the priest, although 15 other rights activists, lawyers, academics and writers have been imprisoned in connection with the probe into the same case. The Ranchi-based priest, better known as Fr Stan Swamy, suffers from Parkinson’s disease and is known for his documentation of police torture of tribal youths suspected of terrorism and his vocal support for the recognition and codification of the animist Sarna faith. The National Investigation Agency has arrested and chargesheeted him in the Elgaar Parishad case — an alleged Maoist plot to incite violence through an Ambedkarite event in 2017 — accusing him of being a member of the banned CPI Maoist and a conduit for its funds. He has been sent to judicial custody in Mumbai till October 23. On Saturday, Felix Machado, archbishop of Vasai and CBCI secretary-general, said in a statement: “According to our reports, Fr Stan has for decades been working to protect the rights of the Adivasis, especially their land rights. This could have worked against the interests of certain people. “When questioned during the months of July-August 2020 by authorities, Fr Stan Swamy has fully cooperated with investigating agencies and has provided detailed statements, claiming to be innocent in the case.” The statement added: “It is difficult to comprehend the plight of an octogenarian with several morbidities, like Fr Stan Swamy, to have to undergo such difficulties during this pandemic in which even a normal healthy person would hesitate to travel or would never travel risking one’s life.” Before his arrest, Fr Stan had declined an NIA summons to its Mumbai office, citing his age and the pandemic. “The CBCI makes a strong appeal to the concerned authorities to immediately release Fr Stan Swamy and to permit him to go to his residence,” the statement said. Archbishop Machado’s Protestant counterpart, Rev. Asir Ebenezer, general secretary of the National Council of Churches in India (NCCI), said his organisation was still working on a statement. Asked why his statement did not mention the 15 other accused imprisoned in the case, Archbishop Machado told The Telegraph: “Others are also our concern if they are detained out of unfair (methods) and injustice.” The North East Catholic Research Forum said in a statement: “By selective targeting of a law-abiding prominent Christian, it appears to be an attempt to distract and divert people’s attention from multiple crises the country is currently witnessing -- political, diplomatic, economic and social insecurity.… The NECARF, therefore, appeals to the Government of India to forthwith intervene and ensure his early release, as we pray for people of this country in these times of extreme crisis exacerbated by the Covid-19 pandemic.” While most Church bodies in India have so far been focusing on Fr Stan and not the other 15, Christian organisations at the global level have joined other human rights bodies in demanding justice for all of them. “Stan is the latest one among the 16 people arrested including well-known rights defenders Arun Ferreira and Sudha Bharadwaj, both lawyers, and Vernon Gonsalves and Varavara Rao, both writers,” a statement from the Society of Jesus, or Jesuits, said. Fr Stan is a member of the Society of Jesus, a religious order with a legacy of running quality educational institutions. “We, as Jesuits involved in works of education, caring and defending the rights of the poor and the vulnerable all over the world, stand in solidarity with Stan and other human rights defenders in India and strongly condemn the arrest of Fr Stan Swamy, demand immediate release and refrain from arbitrary arrests of innocent law-abiding citizens,” the statement said. Many Catholics in India are observing fasts and conducting prayers and protests in Delhi at the call of the Forum of Religious for Justice and Peace, a group of Christian priests and nuns from various congregations. John Dayal, spokesperson for India’s oldest Catholic lay people’s body, the All India Catholic Union, said the government’s crackdown on charitable institutions through the Foreign Contributions (Regulation) Act, 2010, had sealed the lips of many Christians. “Muslims and Sikhs contribute a lot more to charity and do not need to rely on foreign funds. For Christians, the FCRA is a sword hanging over every other educational institution,” Dayal said. “The government effectively used income-tax investigations, municipal zoning laws and land laws during the (tenure of the) previous BJP government in Jharkhand to terrorise the Church.” Amnesty International had to recently shut shop in India after its account was frozen for alleged FCRA violations. “While the Church itself has been silenced, the 1.25 lakh members of religious groups like Jesuits have stuck to their main task of fighting for the oppressed and pushing forward a socialist agenda,” Dayal said. “The government does not mind you distributing food but the moment you open a coaching class for the civil services, or talk about civil rights under the Constitution, you will be harassed like Fr Stan.” Fr Stan has been charged with channelling Maoist funds through the Persecuted Prisoners Solidarity Committee, headed by Calcutta professor Partho Sarathi Ray, who too has been questioned. Rights activists and noted academics too have spoken out against Fr Stan’s arrest. Dreze has supported an appeal to Opposition leaders tweeted by the Jharkhand Janadhikar Mahasabha -- a coalition of rights outfits - tagging politicians including Rahul Gandhi, Sitaram Yechury, Mamata Banerjee and Tejashwi Yadav, among others. “We strongly condemn the arrest of Stan Swamy in connection with the Bhima Koregaon case. He is a valued and public-spirited citizen and has been working for tribal rights since decades in Jharkhand. All Opposition parties should exert pressure on the Centre to release him,” Dreze said. Chief minister Soren posted a tweet on Friday night from his official handle that said: “What message does the BJP government at the Centre want to send out by arresting the 83-year-old Stan Swamy, who has been raising his voice for the poor, the deprived and Adivasis? What obstinacy is this to stifle all voices of dissent?” Ranchi-based activist and writer Xavier Dias, 70, a close associate of Fr Stan, recalled the priest’s work for the tribal communities. “He hails from Trichy in Tamil Nadu. He worked as a teacher in the early 1960s and spent decades fighting for the rights of the Adivasis of Jharkhand under the banner of the Visthapan Virodhi Jan Vikas Andolan, a people’s movement against displacement,” Dias said. “He opposed the previous BJP government’s attempts to amend land laws and the land acquisition act. He also fought for the Adivasis who were falsely accused of being Maoists and lodged in jail custody.” Additional reporting by Animesh Bisoee from Jamshedpur and K.M. Rakesh from Bangalore||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-619
11-10-2020||India||Rahul Gandhi flags soldier safety||Rahul Gandhi on Saturday accused Prime Minister Narendra Modi of indulging in wasteful expenditure even as the safety of Indian soldiers was being compromised. Rahul posted a video on Twitter that showed jawans discussing among themselves the dangerous decision of forcing them to travel in vehicles that are not bulletproof. “Our soldiers are being sent in nonbulletproof trucks to sacrifice their lives and aircraft worth Rs 8,400 crore for the Prime Minister! Is this justice?” Rahul tweeted. It is not clear where the video has been shot but the soldiers are acutely worried about being attacked. In the twominute video, one of the men in uniform can be heard saying: “We are forced to travel in such vehicles while officers travel in bulletproof vehicles. They are playing with our lives.” Other jawans agree with him, insisting that it is the duty of the officers to ensure bulletproof trucks for them. The parliamentary election last year was dominated by patriotic emotions as Prime Minister Narendra Modi made the Pulwama tragedy — in which 40 CRPF jawans were killed after an explosiveladen car rammed into their vehicle — and the subsequent Balakot air strike the main issue. The BJP hugely benefited from that discourse as all other issues got pushed aside even as the Opposition kept harping on lax security and increased terror at¬tacks under the Modi regime. The Congress has constantly attacked the Modi govern¬ment for cutting the defence budget and paying inadequate attention to the basic needs and welfare of the soldiers. The party has also consistently attacked the government for its wasteful expenditure in these times of unprecedented eco¬nomic crisis, asking it to scrap vanity projects such as the Central Vista in which a new Parliament building will be built along with offices and res¬idences for top functionaries. Barely a few days ago, Rahul had questioned the Prime Minister for buying two aircraft worth over Rs 8,000 crore when the BJP leaders taunted him for using a cushioned chair on the tractor during his protest against the farm bills in Punjab. Rahul said Modi ordered the fancy planes only because his friend, US President Donald Trump, had it. The two planes will be used by the President and the Prime Minister of India. The Congress on Saturday held kisan (farmer) conferences in every state to demand withdrawal of the new farm laws.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-619
11-10-2020||India||Republic CFO skips police summons, points to Supreme Court||Republic TV’s chief financial officer (CFO), who was summoned by Mumbai police to appear before them at 11am on Saturday in connection with allegations of TRP manipulation, skipped the meeting saying that the channel had approached the Supreme Court. Shiva Subramaniyam Sundaram, the CFO on whom summons were issued on Friday, requested the police not to record his statement because the top court would hear the petition within a week, a senior official said. However, Sam Balsara, chairman and managing director of Madison World and Madison Communications, appeared before the crime branch to record his statement in the same case, the official said. The Mumbai crime branch, which is investigating alleged TRP manipulation by three channels, had issued the summons. The accountants of the Marathi channels Fakt Marathi and Box Cinema and those of a couple of advertising agencies were also summoned, the official said. The summons to Sundaram said there were reasonable grounds to believe that he was “acquainted with certain facts and circumstances of the matter and the same are required to be ascertained”. “However, he did not appear before the probe team. He informed the police that the channel had approached the Supreme Court and that there would be a hearing within a week. Citing this, he requested the police not to record his statement,” the official said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-620
11-10-2020||India||61-year-old pedals wife 90km to hospital||A 61-year-old villager pedalled a trolley rickshaw for 90km carrying his wife to a city hospital because he couldn’t afford an autorickshaw and was unable to call a government ambulance since he has no mobile. Rag-picker Kabir Bhuin, who pedalled the rented three-wheeler for more than 14 hours from Sakhigopal in Odisha’s Puri district to Cuttack, got wife Sukanti admitted to the SCB Medical College and Hospital on Saturday morning with help from some local people. Sources said Kabir had a week ago admitted Sukanti to the local community health centre in Gopinathpur, Puri district. Before her discharge, the doctor there informally advised Kabir to take her to the SCB Medical College, saying she had multiple ailments that might include cancer. Neither did the health centre make an official referral, nor did it arrange for a free government ambulance to take Sukanti to Cuttack, the sources said. When Sukanti’s condition worsened on Friday morning, Kabir decided to take her to Cuttack himself. “The local autorickshaw demanded Rs 1,200, which I couldn’t afford. So, I rented the trolley rickshaw at Rs 50 a day,” Kabir told reporters in Cuttack. Kabir set off from his home at 9am on Friday and reached Cuttack’s outskirts around 11pm. When, after a night’s rest, he resumed his journey towards the medical college hospital, some people came forward to help. “We noticed the poor man ferrying his wife in the trolley rickshaw, and some of us decided to help him,” social activist Abhimanyu Das told The Telegraph. He said Kabir had been nursing Sukanti, who was suffering from stomach pain and vomiting, for the past one year. He had taken her to hospitals in Bhubaneswar and Puri town during pre-pandemic times when buses used to run. “I’m trying my hardest to give her the best treatment I can,” Kabir told local reporters. He said he used to earn about Rs 200 a day before the lockdown reduced his income. Das said: “Kabir told us he had none to help him. He arrived here without even a spare sari for his wife. His wife’s arms and legs are swollen and she cannot even stand, let alone walk.” Bhubanananda Maharana, medical emergency officer at the SCB Medical College and Hospital, said Sukanti’s treatment had started. “We’ll do an ultrasound and X-ray. There’s strong suspicion of malignancy. If necessary, we’ll refer her to the Acharya Harihar Institute of Cancer (in Cuttack),” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-620
11-10-2020||India||A September to remember for Indian art at auctions||As the Covid-19 pandemic continued to wreak havoc on human lives and economies of nations, Indian art — both ancient and contemporary — made waves at international auctions in September-end. In what was described in a media release as the “Strongest season for Indian and Southeast Asian art in over a decade”, at a live auction in New York on September 25, Christie’s total was $82,830,875 (Rs 604.3 crore). It was described as a “100 per cent increase year-over-year doubling September 2019’s total”. Bidders participated from 41 countries and five continents. Arun Vadhera, who founded Vadhera Art Gallery and who is a consultant to Christie’s, explained it is true that the stock market is buoyant, but the art market is not liquidity driven. As a consultant he would never advise clients to invest in art. “In recent times, the number of collectors has increased and this is reflected in the rising prices. The art market is not liquidity driven. There is a huge gap between the Indian art market and the western or Chinese art market. This has to be narrowed,” Vadhera concluded. The top lot of the week was a rare and magnificent gray schist triad of Buddha Shakyamuni that sold for $6,630,000 (Rs 48.3 crore) and set the world auction record for a Gandharan work of art. Among the other notable results were the sales of a rare and magnificent bronze Chola bronze figure of Shiva Tripuravijaya, circa 1050, that sold for $4,350,000 (Rs 31.7 crore) and established the record for a south Indian sculpture, and of a Tyeb Mehta painting, Untitled, from 1974 that sold for $1,110,000 (Rs 8.09 crore). It is said Indians are mostly buyers of contemporary Indian art. “Such high museum quality art work has not been seen on the market for years now,” commented art historian Naman Ahuja. “Are collectors feeling vulnerable to hold on to these wonderful pieces any longer?… If they are feeling that this is their last chance because things may become worse.” Deepanjana Klein, international head of Classical and Contemporary Indian and South Asian Art, remarked: “This season was the strongest in over a decade for Indian and Southeast Asian art…. These exceptional results and participation demonstrate the resilience of the market and growing breadth and depth of the collector base in the field.” On September 22, Christie’s sale: A Lasting Engagement: The Jane & Kito de Boer Collection, totalled $3,563,625 (Rs 26 crore) with 82 per cent sold by lot and 81 per cent sold by value. Six records were set within the sale, including artist records for Chittaprosad Bhattacharya, Prosanto Roy, Prokash Karmakar and Rama Mukherji, along with a record for an Early Bengal oil painting and a record for a figurative work by Biren De. Top lots of the sale included important works by Rameshwar Broota led by Silent Structures of 1991, which sold for $525,000 (Rs 3.8 crore); and the seminal 1982 painting, The Last Chapter, which achieved $287,500 (Rs 2.09 crore). Other notable results included paintings by Ganesh Pyne, including The Animal which achieved $400,000 (Rs 2.9 crore), establishing the second highest price for a work by the artist. Sotheby’s, too, had reason for feeling upbeat. Sotheby’s London’s annual sale of Modern & Contemporary South Asian Art (September 29) was led by Bhupen Khakhar’s Portrait of Shri Shankerbhai V. Patel near Red Fort, which more than quadrupled its high estimate to sell for £2.6 million (Rs 2.47 crore). This is the second highest price ever achieved for the artist at auction, following the record-breaking sale of Khakhar’s Two Men in Benares at Sotheby’s London last year (£2.5 million). The Portrait of Shri Shankerbhai V. Patel near Red Fort had previously hung in the artist’s Baroda drawing room and was offered at auction directly from his estate.Elsewhere, a new record was set for Prabhakar Barwe, The Chess-Board sold for £302,400 (Rs 2.87 crore), more than double the artist’s previous record and three times the pre-auction estimate (£60,000-80,000). Another record was set for Pilloo Pochkhanawala when her Untitled wooden sculpture sold for £81,900 (Rs 77.9 lakh), versus an estimate of £40,000-60,000. The previous record for the artist was $71,000. Across the entire sale, 64 per cent of lots sold for prices above the high estimates. Thirty per cent of buyers were new to Sotheby’s. Fifteen works from the collection of Gunnar and Inger Hansen were sold for £170,000 (Rs 1.6 crore). Seventy-three per cent of the sold works achieved prices in excess of their pre-sale estimates.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-620
11-10-2020||India||Delhi University sticks to online exams||Delhi University plans to continue online classes for the current semester and hold exams in the virtual mode in December-January despite many students failing to complete the earlier exam due to lack of access to Internet and devices. On Saturday, the DU administration tabled the proposal before its Executive Council (EC), the highest decision-making body of the university, but the meeting was deferred to October 20 as the vice-chancellor was indisposed. According to the proposal, second and third semester undergraduate and postgraduate students are to continue online classes for the rest of this year in view of the pandemic and also appear online for internal assessments and term exams. DU has around 6 lakh undergraduate and postgraduate students Around 10 per cent of students could not take the final-semester exams held in July, and another 20 per cent could not submit their answer sheets because of lack of access to Internet and devices such as smartphones and computers, feeble connections and other technical problems. A second round of online exams was held in August for such students, and DU is yet to come out with data on it. The exams had been held online in the open-book mode, under which the students had to log onto the examination portal to get the question papers, then write their answers on plain paper, scan them and upload them on the website. Apart from the connectivity and device issues, there is no scope for invigilation in such a mode, which prompted many to question the sanctity and effectiveness of such exams. “A large number of students could not appear for the OBE (open-book examination) because they did not have devices. The university wants to blindly follow the directives of the University Grants Commission and the education ministry, which want all institutions to hold online examinations,” said J.L. Gupta, a member of the DU Executive Council. He pointed out that JEE and NEET exams were conducted last month in the traditional pen-and-paper mode. “If (these exams) could be held in the pen-and-paper mode, the DU exams can also be conducted,” Gupta said. The first semester is yet to begin as the admissions process has been delayed because of the pandemic. The first semester is expected to begin in November. Rajesh Jha, another EC member, also opposed the proposal for online exams. “When students do not have adequate number of devices, the university should rather assess students on the basis of internal assessments,” he said. At Saturday’s EC meeting, four members submitted notes of dissent over the postponement of the session, arguing that there was no such provision in case of the indisposition of the VC. According to the meeting’s agenda note, DU has started six new centres — the Delhi School of Public Health, Delhi School of Climate Change and Sustainability, Delhi School of Public Policy and Governance, Centre for Disability Studies, Delhi School of Transnational Affairs and the Delhi School of Skill Enhancement and Entrepreneurship Development. Funds of Rs 1,000 crore that DU is to receive under the government’s Institution of Eminence scheme will be utilised to set up these centres.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-620
11-10-2020||India||Dalit case hurdles: police to prosecutor||Cases of atrocities against Dalits are diluted at every stage from registration of complaint to filing of chargesheet to the trial, leading to acquittals in 75 per cent cases, a study has found. The findings mirror the experience so far with the Hathras gang-rape-and-murder case, said Rahul Singh, director of the National Dalit Movement for Justice (NDMJ), a civil society group that studied cases of atrocities against Dalits registered between 2009 and 2018. “Our experience shows that when it comes to atrocities on Dalits, from the day of incident the police resort to various machinations to dilute the seriousness of the violence and shield the accused from prosecution,” Singh said. “When the case reaches the courts, the victims have to face bias from different court actors,” he added, specifically citing discrimination from the special public prosecutors appointed to represent the victims. According to the family of the 19-year-old Dalit victim in Hathras, the Uttar Pradesh police took eight days to invoke the charge of gang rape and five days to arrest the accused. The police are also accused of denying the victim the best possible treatment and then hijacking her body from hospital and burning it after locking her family at their home. “The officials involved in the illegal forced cremation and shoddy investigation must be punished under Section 4 of the SC/ST Prevention of Atrocities Act. The government must ensure that all the mandatory provisions, including the appointment of a special prosecutor of the victims’ (family’s) choice, are implemented,” Singh said. The Atrocities Act, enacted in 1989 and amended in 2015, mandates immediate arrest of the accused, chargesheets within 60 days, the completion of the trial within another next 60 days in “exclusive special courts” or “special courts”, and compensation for the victims. ⚪ According to the study, the police tend to register cases fit for the Atrocities Act under other laws. It found that of the 391,952 crimes by upper castes against Dalits reported between 2009 and 2018, some 32.5 per cent were registered under laws other than the Atrocities Act. ⚪ While the act sets a 60-day deadline for the filing of the chargesheet, data shows that the number of Atrocities Act cases where the police investigation remained pending rose from 6,095 in 2009 to 16,300 in 2018. ⚪ Slow investigation and delayed chargesheets lead to slow disposal of cases, allowing ample time to subject the victims to pressure, threats or force to withdraw the cases. ⚪ Another consequence of such delays in serious offences is that they virtually ensure that the accused receive bail. ⚪ While the act requires every district to have an “exclusive special court” to try Atrocities Act cases, state governments have been designating ordinary courts, already overburdened with cases, as (non-exclusive) “special courts”. Currently, the country’s 702 districts have only 157 exclusive special courts for Atrocities Act cases. In a 2014 study that the NDMJ had conducted on five such special courts, the discussions with undertrial victims and witnesses raised questions about the role of many of the government-appointed special public prosecutors (SPPs) who represent the victims. Many SPPs do not allow the victims or witnesses to enter their chambers, and do not brief or prepare them well about the court processes, the study found. It concluded that many SPPs were biased against the victims and believed they were filing false cases. Data that the study collated from National Crime Records Bureau reports show a 6 per cent rise in atrocities against Dalits, from 20.1 reported crimes per one lakh Dalits in 2009 to 21.3 reported crimes in 2018. While 33,594 atrocities were reported against Dalits in 2009, the number was 42,793 in 2018 — an increase of 27 per cent. This period witnessed 12,750 reported rapes of Dalit women. Among the Atrocities Act cases where judgments were delivered during this period, the overall conviction rate was 25.2 per cent. A teacher at a central university who has been researching the subject said there has always been a correlation between the caste of the accused and that of the chief minister or some other dominant political figure of the state. “There’s a clear correlation between the castes of the perpetrators and the political bosses. The legal action gets defused at every level,” Singh said. About the Hathras case, he said: “The police were in a hurry to cremate the body and prevent lawyers from meeting the victim’s family.” Among the well-known cases that had ended in the acquittal of most of the accused was the killing of 34 Dalits in Bihar’s Aurangabad district in the year 2000. The Ranvir Sena, a private army of landlords, was accused of the massacre. The Aurangabad special court awarded life terms to 10 people in 2007 but Patna High Court later acquitted nine of them.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-620
11-10-2020||India||Kangana Ranaut faces FIR for farmer comment||A Karnataka court has directed police to lodge an FIR against actress Kangana Ranaut for using the word “atanki (terrorists)” while commenting on the farmers’ protests against the farm laws. Kangana had tweeted in Hindi on September 20: “Mr Prime Minister, if someone is sleeping, they can be woken up. If someone has a misconception, they can be made to understand. But those who are pretending to be asleep, what difference will your explanation make to them? These are the very same terrorists who had spilt rivers of blood although CAA did not take away the citizenship of any individual.” The actress was responding to a tweet by the Prime Minister trying to allay fears over the farm laws. Reacting to a news report on her comment the next day, Kangana had tweeted: “People who spread misinformation and rumours about CAA that caused riots are the same people who are now spreading misinformations about Farmers bill and causing terror in the nation, they are terrorists….” On Friday, the judicial magistrate first class of Tumkur in Karnataka directed the police to book a case against Kangana, based on a petition filed by lawyer L. Ramesh Naik who described himself as a farmer hurt by the comments. The farm laws have triggered protests in Punjab and Haryana and several other states, including Karnataka,  appearing to unnerve the Modi government. “I was deeply hurt with the way she (Kangana) described protesting farmers as terrorists. Apart from being a lawyer, I am a farmer involved in day-to-day farming of my land. That is why I decided to stand up for all the farmers she has insulted,” Naik told The Telegraph on Saturday. He said he was left with no option but to seek a judicial direction since the police had ignored his written complaints. “I had complained to the state director-general of police and the Tumkur police superintendent the day after she called farmers terrorists. But I was extremely disappointed due to the lack of any action from the police,” Naik said. He moved court on September 25, after which two hearings have taken place. In his petition, Naik has argued that Kangana “has a clear intention to injure the people who are opposing the farmers’ bills” and was “wantonly giving provocation with the intent to cause riot”. “I am relieved that the court took note of my concern as a farmer and directed the police to file an FIR. Now it is up to the local police station, which is expected to be served with the order copy by today (Saturday) evening,” Naik said. He said the police would have to follow the court order and file an FIR within 24 hours of receiving its copy. “There is no weekend holiday for a criminal case. I am expecting the police to file an FIR today itself,” Naik said. The local police station confirmed that they would register an FIR once they received the certified court order copy.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-620
11-10-2020||India||Paswan funeral held with state honours||Union minister and Lok Janshakti Party founder Ram Vilas Paswan was consigned to flames on the banks of the Ganga at Digha here on Saturday amid chants of “dharti gunje aasmaan, Ram Vilas Paswan” (Earth and sky echo, Ram Vilas Paswan) and demands for Bharat Ratna and a memorial in Delhi. A large crowd accompanied his body to the cremation ground while thousands more had converged there to be a witness to the last rites. Some had come from Uttar Pradesh, Jharkhand, Punjab, Delhi, Tamil Nadu and Kerala just to be there. Ram Vilas’s son and Jamui MP Chirag Paswan lit the funeral pyre in the presence of his mother Reena and other family members. The rituals were conducted with full state honours. Bihar chief minister Nitish Kumar, deputy chief minister Sushil Kumar Modi, Union ministers Ravi Shankar Prasad, Giriraj Singh, Nityanand Rai, leader of the Opposition in the Assembly Tejashwi Prasad Yadav, Jan Adhikar Party leader Rajesh Ranjan alias Pappu Yadav were present. Ram Vilas, 74, had succumbed to heart-related ailments at a private hospital in Delhi on Thursday. His body was brought to Patna on a special IAF flight on Friday evening. It was taken to the Vidhan Sabha, LJP headquarters and then to his home in the city. Ram Vilas’s first wife Rajkumari Devi, whom he had divorced in 1981, paid a visit at his house here on Saturday. Before the funeral, Ram Vilas’s younger brother Pashupati Kumar Paras said: “Ram Vilas ji should be given Bharat Ratna by the central government. His residence in Delhi should be turned into a memorial as a fitting tribute to a leader who worked for the uplift of the poor.” Ram Vilas’s death has turned the upcoming Bihar elections into an acid test for his son Chirag. The young leader has now a strong grip on his party and is trying to establish himself as a political force. But the guiding and protective presence is gone now. “Chirag’s earlier decision to influence his father to join the NDA ahead of the 2014 Lok Sabha polls paid rich dividends. However, in a new gambit, he has taken on Nitish. The coming months are going to be make or break for him as Nitish is a hard nut and a veteran politician. Ram Vilas’s departure at this juncture has taken away a vast reservoir of experience and political acumen from which Chirag could have benefited,” a senior LJP leader told The Telegraph on the condition of anonymity. However, he asserted that there would be a sympathy wave in favour of Chirag. However, a JDU leader said: “Sympathy wave occurs mainly if a person has died of unnatural causes or if it has been untimely. Chirag may get a few more votes in the name of Ram Vilas, but there would be no sympathy wave.” The presence of Nitish at the funeral was seen by many as a posturing for the Scheduled Castes, who account for around 16 per cent of the electorate. “Nitish or for that matter any worthwhile leader or any party would not like to fall foul of the Scheduled Castes in this election season. His (Nitish’s) presence at the funeral was also necessitated by Chirag’s recent allegations that he had insulted Ram Vilas,” a senior politician quipped.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-620
